
        Zal Yanovsky, whose distinctive guitar playing and ebullient personality helped make the Lovin' Spoonful one of the most popular rock groups of the late 1960's, died on Friday at his home outside Kingston, Ontario. He was 57.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        One of the biggest North American rock bands when the Beatles and other British acts dominated the pop charts, the Lovin' Spoonful had 10 singles in the Billboard Top 40 between 1965 and 1967. Their first seven, beginning with ''Do You Believe in Magic?,'' all reached the Top 10, and ''Summer in the City'' reached No. 1 in 1966.
        By the time the group released what would be its last Top 40 record, ''She Is Still a Mystery,'' Mr. Yanovsky had left. Not long after that, he left the music business entirely and began a successful second career as a restaurateur in Canada.
        On record and in performance the Lovin' Spoonful's focal point was John Sebastian, who handled the lead vocals and was the writer or co-writer of all the group's hits. But Mr. Yanovsky's lively, bluesy guitar work was essential to the group's sound, which seamlessly mixed varied elements like traditional folk, old-time rock 'n' roll, country and even jug band music. His endearingly goofy, rubber-faced stage presence was a vital part of the band's appeal. He also sang harmony and the occasional lead, usually on novelty tunes like ''Bald-Headed Lena.''
        Zalman Yanovsky was born in Toronto on Dec. 19, 1944. He taught himself the guitar and played for spare change on the streets as a teenager before joining Denny Doherty and Cass Elliot, two future member of the Mamas and the Papas, in the Mugwumps, a folk group in the early 1960's. He and Mr. Sebastian formed the Lovin' Spoonful with the bassist Steve Boone and the drummer Joe Butler in 1965.
        The group signed with the small Kama Sutra label in 1965 and began its impressive, if short-lived, assault on the charts. It was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2000.
        At the time of his death he and his wife, Rose Richardson, owned a thriving restaurant, Chez Piggy, and a bakery, Pan Chancho.
        He is survived by Ms. Richardson; a daughter, Zoe; a grandson, Max; and a sister, Buba.
      