
        Francisco Unanue Casal, one of two brothers who built their parents' trade in imported Spanish condiments and olive oil into today's Goya brand food empire, died on Friday in Santurce, P.R. He was 71 and lived in nearby Rio Piedras, P.R.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the company, which announced his death this week.
        Mr. Unanue was the founder and president of Goya de Puerto Rico, the twin to the distributor based in New Jersey, Goya Foods Inc. His older brother, Joseph A. Unanue, heads the operation in Secaucus, N.J.
        Together, they created the country's largest Hispanic-owned food company, employing more than 2,000 people. Still family held, it received its start with their father, a Basque from northern Spain.
        The father, Don Prudencio Unanue, went to Puerto Rico in 1902. He later studied business at the Albany Business School, but returned to Puerto Rico to marry Doña Carolina Casal Valdés.
        The couple moved to New York, where he became a customs broker. They missed the foods and flavors of Spain and, realizing that they were not alone, began importing foods and spices from Spain.
        The Unanues opened a warehouse on Duane Street in lower Manhattan in 1935 and registered the Goya brand a year later for their olives and oils and sardines. As the business grew, it began to process, can and pack its wares, becoming Unanue & Sons in 1946 and Goya Foods in 1961.
        It branched into Brooklyn and into manufacturing, and then in 1974, it settled into its headquarters in Secaucus. Its more than 1,000 products now include rice, beans, spices, nectars, canned foods, sodas and other Caribbean and Latin American specialties.
        Francisco -- or Frank -- Unanue was born in Ridgefield Park, N.J., and started with summer jobs in the company at age 12. He received an engineering degree at Stevens Institute of Technology and joined the company full time in 1956.
        Ten years later he moved to Puerto Rico to head Goya de Puerto Rico, now the commonwealth's largest exporter of condiments. At his direction, it formed a number of subsidiaries in packaging, advertising and the manufacturing of cans, bottles and plastic in the 1970's and 1980's.
        He was a founder of the Spanish Chamber of Commerce in New York in the early 1960's. In Puerto Rico he was active in civic affairs and supported youth and sports activities and programs for education.
        Mr. Unanue is survived by his wife, Diana Margarita López de Unanue; three sons, Frank Jr., Carlos and Jorge; a daughter, Anne-Marie; two brothers, Joseph and Charlie; and five grandchildren.
      