
        Frederick Knott, a notoriously unprolific playwright who scored big when he did write -- with his 1952 Broadway hit ''Dial M for Murder'' and later with the 1966 thriller ''Wait Until Dark'' -- died on Tuesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 86.
        ''He hated writing,'' his wife, Ann Hillary Knott, said.
        That is perhaps understandable. The clever, complicated ''Dial M for Murder'' was turned down by seven London producers before being accepted as a television drama by the British Broadcasting Corporation. Mrs. Knott said that he became so discouraged that he almost tore up the script.
        Making matters worse, he signed away the movie rights for a paltry £1,000 after the television production. Though he wrote the screen version for Alfred Hitchcock in 1954, he thus made far less money than he might have. When the picture was remade in 1998 as ''A Perfect Murder,'' he received credit for writing the play, but no payment, Mrs. Knott said.
        But he made enough with just three plays to live comfortably and that was his sole objective. ''He wrote only for money,'' his wife said.
        ''Dial M for Murder'' was translated into two dozen languages and is still performed by professional and amateurs around the world. ''Wait Until Dark'' was a Broadway hit and then a successful movie with Audrey Hepburn in 1967. He also wrote ''Write Me a Murder'' in 1961.
        Frederick Major Paull Knott was born in in Hankow, China, on Aug. 28, 1916. His parents were Quaker missionaries who sent him back to England for his education. He graduated from Cambridge University in 1938 and served in the Royal Artillery from 1939 to 1946.
        He then retreated to a cottage next to his parents' home in Sussex to struggle with a play he had already imagined. His inspiration was the bang of a gun going off, he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1961. He imagined the bang in an old, very oak-paneled English house that had seen better days.
        He worked for 18 months straight; he stayed in his bathrobe and his mother left meals by the door. He emerged with ''Dial M for Murder.''
        Then the struggle really began. A succession of producers rejected the play, with one calling it trivial. His wife read aloud a letter from the producer August MacLeod, who complimented the ''ingenious little plot,'' but said that ''the play as a whole would cause little interest.''
        But then the BBC offered to use it as a 90-minute television play early in 1952. It got rave reviews. He sold the film rights to a London movie company headed by Sir Alexander Korda.
        Then James Sherwood, a stage producer with a lease on a London theater, had to cancel the production of a play and asked to produce ''Dial M for Murder.'' After less than three weeks' rehearsal, it opened to critical acclaim.
        The excitement in the plot does not arise from trying to solve a murder. The theatergoer knows who committed it and how it was executed. Rather, the tension grows from the attempts of Scotland Yard to break down the culprit's seemingly perfect alibi so that an innocent party can be saved from execution.
        Maurice Evans, the actor, saw the London production and offered to star in the show on Broadway. That plan was almost scuttled by the film deal, according to The Encyclopedia of Mystery and Detection. Sir Alexander had a clause barring any future live productions until after the movie came out. That snag was worked out, and ''Dial M'' began its run of 552 performances in October 1952 at the Plymouth Theater.
        In the next five years, the play was produced in 30 countries. It is still a standard of summer stock and school productions.
        Mr. Knott then worked closely with Hitchcock on writing the screenplay, though Mrs. Knott said that he was paid just his expenses. Sir Alexander had received $175,000 from Paramount for the rights to the 1954 movie.
        His next play, ''Write Me a Murder,'' opened at the Belasco Theater in October 1961 and ran for 196 performances.
        His final play, ''Wait Until Dark,'' opened in February 1966 at the Barrymore Theater and ran for 11 months on Broadway and two years in London. Its Broadway star, Lee Remick, was nominated for a Tony Award as best actress.
        The movie rights were sold to Paramount before the Broadway opening for what was then a record for such a deal. Mr. Knott again received nothing, his wife said.
        Along with Mrs. Knott, Mr. Knott's survivors include a son, Dr. Anthony Frederick Knott of Kayenta, Ariz., and two grandsons.
        Mrs. Knott said that her husband had imagined two other plays through from beginning to end, but had never written a word. One concerned an elderly couple confronted by a gang in Vermont and the other was a fanciful tale of a brothel. He received many offers of advances to write plays, turning them all down.
        ''His drive was gone,'' she said. ''He didn't want to live in Palm Beach.''
      