
        Wayne Owens, a former congressman from Utah who promoted peace in the Mideast, was found dead on Wednesday in Tel Aviv, the State Department said. He was 65 and lived in Salt Lake City.
        He apparently had a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the department, Anne Marks, said.
        Mr. Owens, a Democrat, was leading a Congressional fact-finding mission when he died, said Representative Lois Capps, Democrat of California.
        ''As the founder of the Center for Middle East Peace, Wayne was a rare Middle East expert with credibility in the American Jewish and Arab-American communities,'' Ms. Capps said in a statement.
        Mr. Owens was elected to Congress in 1972 and was a member of the Judiciary Committee that voted to recommend the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon. He ran for the Senate in 1974, losing to Jake Garn, and for governor of Utah in 1984, a race that Norman H. Bangerter won.
        Mr. Owens returned to the House in 1987, remaining until 1992, when he ran for the Senate again but lost to Robert F. Bennett.
        In his last term in Congress, Mr. Owens was one of 45 Democrats to sue President George Bush to prevent him from taking offensive action in the Persian Gulf without obtaining a Congressional declaration of war ''or other explicit authority from the Congress.''
        Mr. Owens introduced a bill to reintroduce wolves to Yellowstone National Park and arranged a hearing about the effects of nuclear testing on nearby residents.
        In 1998, he appeared before the House Judiciary Committee, arguing against the impeachment of President Bill Clinton.
        With two other former committee members, Elizabeth Holtzman of New York and Robert J. Drinan of Massachusetts, he appeared as one of ''the three ghosts of impeachment past,'' he said.
        Since 1989, Mr. Owens had worked with the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Cooperation, which he helped found with S. Daniel Abraham, founder of Slim-Fast Foods.
        Douglas Wayne Owens was born in Garfield County, Utah. He attended the University of Utah and graduated from its law school in 1964. He was a missionary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in France before practicing law in Salt Lake City in 1965.
        He worked in the presidential campaigns of Robert F. Kennedy in 1968 and Edward M. Kennedy in 1980, and he was a delegate to Democratic State and National Conventions in 1964, 1968 and 1980. He practiced law in Washington and Salt Lake City.
        Surviving are his wife, Marlene Wessel Owens; their 5 children, Elizabeth Owens Tew, Henry Douglas Owens, Sara Ruth Owens, Stephen Wessel Owens and Edward Wessel Owens; 2 sisters, Georgie Cuff and Betty Brown; a brother, Ted Owens; and 14 grandchildren.
      