
        John A. Davis Sr., a veteran of landmark civil rights confrontations since the 1930's and a former chairman of the department of political science at City College of New York, died on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 90 and formerly lived in Washington and New Rochelle, N.Y.
        A native of Washington, Dr. Davis won his spurs fighting for equal rights as a young academic at Howard University and as a leader of the New Negro Alliance, a group that fought racial discrimination. In the mid-1930's he organized the boycott of a white-owned hamburger grill that had fired its black help to make room for white replacements, even though its clientele was black.
        The ''buy where you can work'' picket line proved immediately effective, and the black employees were rehired two days later. Heartened by the response, Mr. Davis organized the alliance to pressure other businesses in black Washington neighborhoods to hire blacks; the businesses sought an injunction against the group, and while lower courts found against the alliance, the Supreme Court in 1938 upheld the alliance's right to picket, even though it was not a labor union directly involved with the employers. Thurgood Marshall, a future Supreme Court justice, was a lawyer for the group in the case, New Negro Alliance vs. Sanitary Grocery Company Inc.
        Dr. Davis and Mr. Marshall would work again in the legal battle leading to the court's unanimous 1954 decision in Brown v. Board of Education, which ended the separate-but-equal doctrine for the public schools. Dr. Davis directed research underpinning the arguments by Mr. Marshall, the lead counsel. He led a staff that compiled the historical and legislative facts upon which the team for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund based its case. Armed with that research, the lawyers fielded the court's questions about the effects of school segregation.
        John Aubrey Davis graduated from Williams College in 1933. He received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1934 and a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1949, both in political science. He taught at Howard University in the mid-1930's and became a full professor at Lincoln University.
        He joined the faculty of the City College of New York in 1953 as an associate professor and in 1961 was promoted to professor of government in the graduate faculty of City University and chairman of the department of political science. He retired in 1980.
        Dr. Davis served on a number of government panels dealing with fair employment and racial integration. Gov. W. Averell Harriman named him to the New York State Commission Against Discrimination in 1957.
        With a lifelong interest in African politics, he was a president of the American Society of African Culture, which sponsored exchanges of artists and performers.
        Dr. Davis is survived by two sons, John A. Jr., of Scottsdale, and Smith W., of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Dorothy Davis Lucas of Silver Spring, Md.; and six grandchildren. His wife, Mavis Wormley Davis, died in 1993.
      