
        Sonny Carson, a black activist who was one of the central figures in the battle over community control of New York City's public schools in the 1960's, died Friday night at the Manhattan Veterans Affairs Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Queens.
        Mr. Carson had been in a coma since suffering two heart attacks a few months ago, a spokesman for an advocacy group he headed said.
        Born Robert Carson on May 22, 1936, in Brooklyn, Mr. Carson came to national attention in the mid-1960's as a militant black protester during the struggle for community control of the public schools whose focus was the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn.
        Nearly a decade after a 1974 kidnapping conviction and 15 months in Sing Sing prison, Mr. Carson re-emerged in the 1980's, fighting drug use in the black community and leading demonstrations against police brutality. His critics viewed him as a racist and an anti-Semite because of statements he made.
        His autobiography, ''The Education of Sonny Carson,'' was made into a movie in 1974. The film chronicled Mr. Carson's early life in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where he joined a gang called the Bishops. In the book, the climax of his early life of street crime, which he described with brutal candor, came when he robbed a Western Union messenger, who was black. He spent the money on clothes and a girlfriend, then was arrested and sent to a juvenile-detention institution for the crime.
        Mr. Carson, who later served in the 82nd Airborne Division of the Army, recounted that after the robbery, his political awakening began, in part because his victim was black. It culminated, he wrote, in the fight for community control of the schools.
        In 1974, when Mr. Carson was filming the movie version of his autobiography, he was arrested on murder, attempted murder and kidnapping charges.
        On May 23, 1973, Philip G. Williams was shot and killed after a struggle in his home in Brooklyn. That same morning, Henry A. Manley was shot in the head and left for dead on a deserted street in Roosevelt, N.Y.
        Mr. Carson was arrested in connection with the murder and attempted murder in what prosecutors argued was a vigilante-style attack ordered by Mr. Carson to avenge burglaries of a hotel owned by a friend of Mr. Carson's.
        In separate trials, Mr. Carson was acquitted of the murder and attempted murder charges. But in December 1974, he was found guilty of kidnapping Mr. Manley and was sentenced to seven years in prison. After the verdict, Mr. Carson told reporters, ''The only reason we were arrested in the first place is that we were trying to do the job of the New York City police. The trial would never have gone on, except that my name is Sonny Carson.''
        Mr. Carson frequently clashed with other black leaders who were uncomfortable with his militant views. In 1968, he broke from the national Congress of Racial Equality, saying the group had ''done nothing for black people in the last year or two.''
        When Mr. Carson was once asked about charges of his being anti-Semitic, he responded, ''That's absolutely absurd, 'anti-Semitic.' And so that you don't ask the question, I'm antiwhite. Don't limit my antis to just one group of people.''
        In the 1980's, in the aftermath of Bernard Goetz's shooting of four young black men on a subway, the racial attacks in Howard Beach, Queens, and the Tawana Brawley case, Mr. Carson once again became a central figure among blacks in New York.
        He founded the Black Men's Movement Against Crack, a group dedicated to fighting drugs, and began to take a more active role in the racial issues confronting the city. He often matched his heated words with a flamboyant style.
        After a young black man was shot and killed by police officers who said the man had lunged for an officer's revolver, Mr. Carson helped organize a street demonstration. He stood before the crowd at the young man's funeral and helped to carry his coffin.
        As he aged, Mr. Carson's thick black hair and goatee became flecked with white and he frequently punctuated his speech with the salutation, ''Peace.'' Explaining his protest philosophy in an interview with The New York Times in 1987, Mr. Carson said: ''You don't give us any justice, then there ain't going to be no peace. We're going to use whatever means necessary to make sure that everyone is disrupted in their normal life.''
        Mr. Carson was back in the headlines in 1989, when his involvement in David N. Dinkins's mayoral campaign caused controversy because of questions about payments to Mr. Carson from the Dinkins campaign. Mr. Carson called a news conference to deny keeping campaign funds, and he announced that he was ''antiwhite'' and blamed whites for kidnapping 20 million blacks from Africa. Mayor Dinkins rushed out a statement calling the remarks ''bigotry.''
        A spokesman for Mr. Carson's group, the Committee to Honor Black Heroes, said the family did not want the names of surviving relatives published.
        A few months ago, when Mr. Carson fell into a coma, his son, the hip-hop artist Lumumba Carson, told Black Entertainment Television, ''He's in a place of decision. This brother has been working as a freedom fighter all his life -- never compromising -- and this is a long-needed rest he would never take.''
      