
        Harvey B. Scribner, a no-nonsense former teacher from Maine who went on to become the chancellor of New York City's school system as it underwent a turbulent shift toward local control in the early 1970's, died yesterday in Waterville, Me. He was 88.
        Dr. Scribner arrived in New York after two decades as a teacher and administrator in Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont and New Jersey, compiling a record of innovation and gentlemanly leadership.
        As state education commissioner in Vermont in the late 60's, Dr. Scribner advocated greater local control of schools and became known for emphasizing the basics in the classroom and continuing education for teachers. He was an early advocate of giving students academic credit for community service. As superintendent in Teaneck, N.J., he oversaw efforts to preserve integration in the township's schools.
        But he later acknowledged that nothing could have prepared him for the tumultuous political and educational environment in New York. Years of racial and economic stress in the city's growing black and Hispanic neighborhoods resulted in protests during his tenure in support of local control of the schools, a notion supported by Mayor John V. Lindsay, who later paid a political price as the schools began to slip.
        The State Legislature responded to the upheaval by decentralizing control of the school system. In 1969, it empowered 32 community school districts throughout the city to administer elementary and middle schools. High schools remained under the control of the central Board of Education. But the board, too, was reconstituted, with its five members appointed by the city's borough presidents instead of by the mayor.
        A superintendent of schools, wielding broad authority over the entire system, was replaced by a chancellor who directly administered only high schools and support services, like budgeting, special education and career education.
        On paper, the chancellor could suspend, supersede or remove community school board members for failing to live up to regulations. In reality, his power was limited. Dr. Scribner found himself hamstrung by the racial and political strife, as well as by the dispersion of power under decentralization, the very system he advocated.
        When Dr. Scribner took office in July 1970, he was the last hope of a school board that had searched for a chancellor for more than a year and had been turned down by at least 10 candidates, including Ramsey Clark, Cyrus R. Vance and R. Sargent Shriver. Upon taking office, Dr. Scribner expressed great enthusiasm for taking over the nation's largest school system at a critical time.
        But years later, Dr. Scribner, who resigned after nearly three years, expressed great disappointment, blaming the Board of Education, which he believed was never committed to making local control work, for the school system's problems.
        ''I don't think decentralization ever was set up to work,'' he was quoted as saying in Newsday in 1988. In that interview, he said the community school boards and districts just added another layer of bureaucracy. ''What I'm talking about is letting each building make its own decisions,'' he said.
        As public schools leader in New York City, he had little control over the system that he had been asked to oversee. From the first few weeks to the last few days of his short tenure, from 1970 to 1973, Dr. Scribner's lack of power manifested itself in many ways.
        During his first months in office, the central Board of Education made many personnel and budgetary decisions without Dr. Scribner's input, in meetings the board barred him from attending.
        In his first year, Dr. Scribner appointed commissions to examine claims that admissions exams at the city's top high schools were biased against black and Hispanic students. But high school administrators revolted and were able to persuade the State Legislature to pass a law that blocked Dr. Scribner from making any changes.
        Many in central administration and the local schools came to view him as a hard-charging outsider who was passionate about issues, but lacking in the political skills needed to navigate the tortuous bureaucracy of the school system, teachers' unions and municipal government.
        The powerful president of the United Federation of Teachers, Albert Shanker, said at the time that he respected Dr. Scribner, but that the chancellor's desire to hold teachers to performance standards essentially suggested that they were to blame for the system's problems. Dr. Scribner was also critical of the tenure rules that enabled teachers to hold their jobs for life, regardless of their performance. Mr. Shanker, who carried much political weight, was one of the chief opponents to renewing the chancellor's contract.
        Dr. Scribner found himself engulfed in racial politics as well. He was still dealing with problems that arose from the racial tension in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville district in Brooklyn, which was turned over to residents of the predominantly black neighborhoods in 1968 as an experiment. Teachers' unions organized a citywide strike that year after the district board, its membership mostly black, tried to transfer several white teachers involuntarily. In his final report on the matter, Dr. Scribner concluded that the union was trying to get in the way of local control of the district.
        ''We sometimes lose sight of the fact that there are 32 local school districts in the city,'' Dr. Scribner said at the time, ''not just the handful that make the headlines because of their troubles, and a majority of the community school boards went through the year with hardly a major problem.''
        He remained committed to local control, a concept that has eroded in recent years as chancellors have lobbied for more authority, and finally came to an end with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's success in winning control of the system this year.
        By the end of his tenure, Dr. Scribner had few allies. In December 1972, Dr. Scribner announced that he would leave office in a few months because of ''a widening gap of confidence'' between him and the Board of Education. Board members said that Dr. Scribner was upset that they would not guarantee a contract extension.
        Harvey Bertram Scribner was born on July 7, 1914, in Albion, a small town in southeastern Maine. His father was a factory worker, and Dr. Scribner once described his own childhood as more bitter than bittersweet.
        After graduating from high school, Mr. Scribner went 20 miles off the Maine coast to work for a shop owner on Matinicus Island, where he recalled salting fish for Calvin Coolidge. To make ends meet, he worked nights and weekends at grocery stores and factories. He once described his time on the island as his education. He spent a year at a teacher-training academy and then dropped out to take a job as a teacher in a one-room schoolhouse in Unity, Me.
        In 1946, he received a bachelor's degree from Farmington State Teachers College in Maine and became a school administrator. In 1951, he received a master's degree in education at the University of Maine. He received his doctorate in education from Boston University in 1960.
        In 1954, Mr. Scribner became the head of the school system in Dedham, Mass., where he raised eyebrows for promoting a federally financed program intended to determine how well students could teach one another. Mr. Scribner said that a local resident once described him as standing ''for all things that Communists stand for.''
        In 1961, he left to become the superintendent of schools in Teaneck, N.J., which became a crucible for dealing with racial issues in the suburbs. With the black population rising, whites were fleeing quickly to other suburban communities. He advocated adopting voluntary busing to keep the elementary schools integrated. Later, when that did not work, Dr. Scribner enforced mandatory busing. The plan provoked death threats and obscene telephone calls to Dr. Scribner. But the busing experiment worked.
        Dr. Scribner called his success there one of his most triumphant and emotional moments. ''I remember the walkie-talkie on the desk, I remember the first report, 'The buses just came in, everything was peaceful,' '' he was quoted as saying by The Record of Bergen County, N.J., in a speech in Teaneck in 1985. ''I was literally crying.''
        In 1968, he left for Vermont, where he challenged the state's entrenched educational bureaucracy.
        Dr. Scribner's first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, Alta, died before him. He is survived by three daughters, Patricia Arno of Hartland, Me., from his first marriage, Jacqueline Cheney of Simsbury, Conn., and Donna Archambault of Leesburg, Fla.; six grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; and three brothers, Morris Scribner of Benton, Me., Herbert Scribner of Fairfield, Me., and Norman Scribner of Naples, Fla.
        After leaving the New York school system, Dr. Scribner became a professor at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, where he researched educational leadership and school administration.
        At the university, he wrote an acclaimed book based on his experiences: ''Make Your Schools Work: Practical, Imaginative and Cost-Free Plans to Turn Public Education Around'' (Simon & Schuster, 1975). Dr. Scribner also helped develop alternative schools in Boston for underprivileged children and a master's degree program for teachers in Washington.
        Correction:  December 25, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Harvey B. Scribner, a former New York City schools chancellor, misspelled the given name of a surviving brother. He is Maurice Scribner, not Morris.
      