
        Richie Regan, a star guard on Seton Hall's 1953 National Invitation Tournament champions and later the university's basketball coach, athletic director and fund-raising director for athletics, died Tuesday at a hospital in Neptune, N.J. Regan, who lived in Sea Girt, N.J., was 72.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        In the 1952-53 season, when college basketball in New York was beginning to emerge from the point-shaving scandal, Seton Hall, a small college in South Orange, N.J., emerged as an elite national team.
        Regan, a 6-foot-2 guard known as the Cat for his quickness, and the 7-foot all-American center Walter Dukes led Seton Hall to a 31-2 record and a 58-46 victory over St. John's in the N.I.T. final. The Pirates were ranked No. 2 in the nation behind Indiana, the N.C.A.A. tournament champion.
        A native of Newark who gained all-New Jersey honors playing basketball at West Side High School, Regan helped Seton Hall reach the N.I.T. in all three of his seasons there. He ranks fourth in career assists at Seton Hall with 443. He was named most valuable player of the East-West College All-Star Game at the Garden after the 1953 N.I.T.
        Regan was a first-round draft pick of the National Basketball Association's Rochester Royals in 1953 and, after two years in the Marines, he joined them in the 1955-56 season. He played three seasons for the Royals, in Rochester and Cincinnati, and was an All-Star in his final year.
        Regan replaced the Hall of Famer Honey Russell as Seton Hall's coach in 1960 and compiled a record of 112-131 in 10 seasons. He was named athletic director in 1971 and joined with his counterparts at six other universities to create the Big East Conference in 1979.
        Regan served as Seton Hall's athletic director until 1985, when he became executive director of Pirate Blue, the university's fund-raising arm for athletics. He was named a special assistant to the vice president for university affairs in 1998.
        Regan is survived by his wife, Sue, the first coach of women's basketball at Seton Hall and a former athletic director there; two sons, Kevin and Matthew, and six daughters, Colleen Christie, Marybeth Regan, Tracey Lynch, Ellen Dombroski, Meg Smith and Kate Moloughney, all from his marriage to his first wife, Sheila, who died in 1991; a brother, William; a sister, Martha Brower; and 14 grandchildren.
        When the Pirates won the N.I.T. in 1953, it was played entirely at Madison Square Garden.
        ''That's when television was just getting started, and all our games were on Channel 13, which had a pretty strong signal,'' Regan told The Record of Hackensack, N.J., before a 40th anniversary reunion of the N.I.T. title team. ''That's when there were maybe two games on TV on a Saturday, not 22 like now. We were a very popular team.''
      