
        Robert Alan Bicks, a Manhattan lawyer and the government's leading trustbuster in the Eisenhower administration, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Castine, Me.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        Mr. Bicks went to the government job as a rock-solid conservative believer in an unfettered, competitive market. He learned its ins and outs when Attorney General Herbert Brownell in 1953 named him executive secretary of a new committee to review the antitrust concept.
        The next year, Mr. Bicks started a five-year stint as legal assistant to the leader of the antitrust division in the Justice Department.
        He was widely regarded as the division's principal policy maker, and became its acting leader in 1959, at 31.
        He filed scores of criminal and civil actions against businesses and prepared the grounds for dozens more. It was the biggest spate of such litigation undertaken by the department since the New Deal.
        When President Dwight D. Eisenhower formally named Mr. Bicks the antitrust chief in 1960 he was the youngest assistant attorney general to command the division. Calm and precise in demeanor, he won accolades even from liberal Democrats in Congress.
        Mr. Bicks supervised the biggest criminal antitrust case brought under the Sherman Act against a who's who of electrical equipment makers, led by General Electric and Westinghouse, who were accused of rigging bids and fixing prices. Most of the companies pleaded guilty after lengthy negotiations with Mr. Bicks.
        He also moved to block giant mergers involving General Motors, Texaco and Bethlehem Steel and Youngstown Sheet & Tube.
        Mr. Bicks left the Justice Department in January 1961 after Robert F. Kennedy became attorney general and scotched his pending renomination.
        Robert Alan Bicks was born in Manhattan and graduated from Yale University in 1949 and from its law school in 1952. His parents were Judge Alexander Bicks of Federal District Court in Manhattan, and Henrietta Isaacson Bicks, one of the first women to graduate from New York University Law School.
        He worked in private practice handling litigation for a variety of companies. For many years, one of his clients was Empire Blue Cross. He retired as a partner in Whitman Breed Abbott & Morgan in 2000, the year the firm merged into Winston & Strawn.
        Mr. Bicks's first wife, Patricia Hughes Bicks, died in 1995 after 39 years of marriage.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie MacArthur; three sons, Michael B., of Durham, N.H., Peter A., of Manhattan, and James H., of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Sarah Kitterman of Brookline, Mass.; a brother, David P., of Manhattan; and nine grandchildren.
      