
        Charles A. Rosen, an engineer who was an early researcher in robotic and artificial intelligence and a founder of Ridge Vineyards in Cupertino, Calif., died on Dec. 8 at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 85.
        Born in Montreal, Mr. Rosen came to the United States as a teenager. He studied electrical engineering at Cooper Union in New York City and earned a Ph.D. at Syracuse University. During World War II, he returned to Canada to work on Royal Canadian Air Force aircraft being sent to Britain. After the war, he worked on transistor theory at General Electric Research Laboratories in Schenectady, N.Y., and was the coauthor of an early book on the subject.
        In the 1950's he moved to California to join the Stanford Research Institute in Menlo Park, where his efforts included projects to develop ''neural networks,'' learning machines based on the organization of the biological brain rather than on digital computers. With other institute scientists, he developed one of the early mobile, intelligent robots.
        Later, he devoted much of his time at Stanford to the development of automation, leading a group that pioneered the use of robots in industrial manufacturing.
        In 1959, Mr. Rosen and several friends from the institute bought a 40-acre vineyard in the Santa Cruz Mountains, overlooking what later came to be known as Silicon Valley. For several years, working only on weekends, they restored the property, which they called Ridge Vineyards, making a little wine for themselves and selling most of their grapes to other winemakers. In 1962, Ridge became a bonded, or professional, winery.
        In 1968 an original investor, David Bennion, left the institute to become Ridge's first full-time winemaker. That year, the group bought a bigger, largely abandoned vineyard and winery called Montebello, higher up the mountain. Paul Draper, the current chief executive and winemaker, joined Ridge in 1969. Today, Ridge is one of the best-known labels in California wine.
        Mr. Rosen and his wife, Blanche, remained involved in Ridge affairs until it was sold in 1986 to a Japanese industrialist. Mrs. Rosen died in June. They had been married 60 years.
        Surviving are two sons, Hal and Steve; two daughters, Naomi and Sema; and five grandchildren.
      