
        Desmond Hoyte, the former president of Guyana who began a thaw of his nation's socialist policies and ushered in a democratic transition to his opponents, died last Sunday in Georgetown, the capital. He was 73.
        The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported, citing Guyanese media reports.
        Mr. Hoyte became prime minister in 1985 on the death of his predecessor, Forbes Burnham, a socialist whose body was sent to Moscow for embalming. Guyana's cold-war embrace of leftist ideology had resulted in overwhelming government control of the economy.
        Mr. Hoyte had been a Burnham protégé, but as president he gradually dismantled some of the isolationist policies of the nation -- which had been renamed the Cooperative Republic of Guyana after gaining independence from Britain in 1966.
        He renewed relations with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and aid from rich countries to buoy Guyana's economy, which once vied with Haiti's for the poorest in the Western Hemisphere.
        Under Mr. Hoyte, Guyana, the only South American country where English is the official language, declared a moratorium on nationalizing private companies, and welcomed management changes in the sugar industry and investment in gold and bauxite mining.
        Yet even as the economy slowly opened during Mr. Hoyte's term, Guyana remained divided. Opponents led by Cheddi B. Jagan called Mr. Hoyte's Economic Recovery Program the ''Empty Rice Pot.''
        Bowing to pressure, Mr. Hoyte encouraged greater press freedom and introduced electoral reforms in the early 1990's that allowed rivals to gain strength. Mr. Jagan was elected president in a disputed race 1992.
        He remained well aware after the elections that politics in Guyana were largely defined by tension between descendants of indentured servants from India, the Indo-Guyanese, and descendants of African slaves, the Afro-Guyanese. Guyana's 700,000 people occupy an area on the northeastern flank of South America about the size of Idaho.
        Hugh Desmond Hoyte was born in 1929 into a middle-class Afro-Guyanese family in Georgetown, the capital of what was then British Guiana. After secondary school, he moved to Grenada to teach at the Grenada Boys' School. Later, he moved to Britain, where he was trained as a lawyer at the University of London.
        His oratorical skills came in handy after the 1992 election as he assumed the role of Guyana's main opposition leader. He ran for president in 1997 and again in 2001, only to be defeated by Indo-Guyanese opponents of the People's Progressive Party.
        He became a critic of the Indo-Guyanese political establishment, symbolized by Mr. Jagan and his American-born wife, Janet, who succeeded him as president in 1998. Opponents often accused Mr. Hoyte of trying to make Guyana ungovernable through protests over the exclusion of Afro-Guyanese from important political posts.
        Bharrat Jagdeo, the Moscow-educated economist who was elected president in 2001, held reconciliation talks with Mr. Hoyte, but they broke off last year.
        Mr. Hoyte is survived by his wife, Joyce.
      