
        George Weller, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1943 for his account of how submarine crewmen working from a medical manual performed an appendectomy while on a war patrol in the Pacific, died Dec. 19 at his home in San Felice Circeo, Italy. He was 95.
        On Sept. 11, 1942, aboard the submarine Seadragon at a depth of 120 feet in the China Sea, Pharmacist's Mate Wheeler Lipes joined with a group of officers -- none of whom was a doctor -- for what was apparently the first major surgical operation ever in a submerged submarine.
        In an operation that lasted 2 hours and 36 minutes, using a tea strainer covered with gauze as an ether mask and spoons as muscle retractors, they successfully removed the appendix of a crewman from Kansas, Darrell Dean Rector, who had been stricken the previous day.
        Based on interviews with the crew, Mr. Weller reconstructed the lifesaving events. His account, published in The Chicago Daily News in December 1942, described the surgical team as ''a little group of anxious-faced men with their arms thrust into reversed white pajama coats.''
        Mr. Weller wrote: ''One by one, the sponges came out. One by one, the tablespoons, bent into right angles, were withdrawn and returned to the galley. At the end it was the skipper who nudged Lipes and pointed to the tally of bent tablespoons. One was missing. Lipes reached into the incision for the last time and withdrew the wishboned spoon and closed the incision.
        ''They even had the tool ready to cut off the thread. It was a pair of fingernail scissors, well scalded in water and torpedo juice.
        ''At that moment, the last can of ether went dry. They lifted up Rector and carried him into the bunk of Lieutenant Charles K. Miller of Williamsport, Pa. Lieutenant Miller alone had control of the ship as diving officer during the operation.
        ''It was half an hour after the last tablespoon had been withdrawn that Rector opened his eyes. His first words were, 'I'm still in there pitching.' ''
        Mr. Weller, a native of Boston, graduated from Harvard in 1929 and reported for The New York Times from Greece during the 1930's before joining The Chicago Daily News. He received a George Polk Memorial Award in 1955 for foreign reporting in recognition of his series on Turkey while Rome correspondent for The Chicago Daily News Syndicate. He wrote of the fall of Singapore in 1941 in ''Singapore Is Silent.''
        He is survived by a son, Anthony, of Gloucester, Mass.; a daughter, Ann Tagge, of Martha's Vineyard, two grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      