
        Edward J. Kulik, an insurance executive who led the revival of the Chrysler Building in the midst of New York's fiscal meltdown of the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospital in Springfield, Mass. He was 76 and lived in Longmeadow, Mass.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Like the city itself, Manhattan's steel-spired monument to Art Deco had fallen on hard times, grown seedy and was shunned by tenants as it repeatedly flipped ownership. In 1975, the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company of Springfield had its turn, as New York City's financial and real estate interests kept an anxious watch.
        Mass Mutual took over the Chrysler Building in foreclosure when the previous owner defaulted on the mortgage. Mr. Kulik was senior vice president of the insurance company at the time; he also was its chief lending officer.
        He was credited with persuading the company's board to restore the faded building to its glory, steel eagles, gargoyles, magnificent lobby and all. His vision prevailed at the depth of a painful recession, with an office-leasing market to match.
        ''Many people felt that the city had lost its image and significance as the location for major corporations,'' Mr. Kulik said at the time. ''We did not share this view.''
        In backing his act of faith in the city's future, Mass Mutual spent $23 million to upgrade the landmark skyscraper, at 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. (Altogether it invested about $58 million in the building.)
        The murals of the marble and granite lobby were restored, and the stainless steel eagles and spire regained their glint. More essentially, the Chrysler was outfitted with modern heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems, and its elevators were retooled beneath the restored veneer.
        Having achieved its rejuvenation, Mass Mutual sold the refurbished Chrysler Building in 1979, by which time more than 96 percent of its space had found tenants.
        Edward Joseph Kulik was born in Hartford and served with the Navy in the Pacific in World War II. He graduated in business administration from the University of Connecticut in 1950 and spent some years with companies in Hartford and Baltimore before joining Mass Mutual in 1958.
        He also was a former president and chief executive of Massachusetts Mutual Mortgage and Realty Investors, and president of Baystate West Inc. of Springfield. He retired in 1988.
        Mr. Kulik is survived by his wife of 53 years, Marion Colbert Kulik; two daughters, Nancy Holstein of Mystic, Conn.; and Betsy Phillips of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a son, Edward Jr. of Rye Brook, N.Y.; and nine grandchildren.
      