
        Dr. Jonathan Evans Rhoads, a Philadelphia surgeon who made crucial breakthroughs in the development of intravenous feeding, died on Jan. 3. He was 94 and lived in Haverford, Pa.
        Through most of his career at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and the university's medical school, Dr. Rhoads focused his research on surgical patients' nutrition. He first broke ground by concocting a mixture that, fed intravenously, made young animals grow normally to maturity and that kept children alive, despite bowel deformities that prevented them from processing food.
        Then, in the 1960's, he directed a research project that led to greater use of intravenous feeding, and his approaches came into common use.
        Dr. Rhoads combined his interest in nutrition with his studies of abnormal tissue growths, or neoplasms, like tumors. From 1935 to 2001 he published nearly 400 papers, and many dealt with his findings about pancreatic, gastric, colon, breast and  liver cancers.
        He shed light on blood coagulation and on the properties of vitamin K and on a common blood thinner. Early in his career, he was known for his expertise on shock and burns and published papers on those topics.
        He was among the first doctors to use sulfas, a family of drugs fighting bacterial infections, for burns and peritonitis.
        Dr. Rhoads worked at the university hospital for almost 70 years, starting as a junior physician in 1932. He was chairman of the university's department of surgery from 1959 to 1972 and remained an active member of the medical school faculty until his final hospitalization.
        Jonathan Rhoads was born in Philadelphia, home to his Quaker family since the 1600's. He received his undergraduate degree from Haverford College in 1928 and his medical degree at Johns Hopkins in 1932. He  then began his internship at the university hospital.
        He also served as university provost in the 1950's before returning to teaching and his research.
        He was a past president of the American Cancer Society, whose medical journal, Cancer, he edited for two decades.
        Dr. Rhoads is survived by his wife of 11 years, Katherine Evans Goddard Rhoads; a daughter, Margaret R. Kendon; 5 sons, Jonathan Jr., George G., Edward O. F., Philip G., and Charles J.; 12 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren. His first wife, Teresa Folin Rhoads, died in 1987 after 50 years of marriage.
        One of Dr. Rhoads's papers grew from personal experience. In 1946 he was stricken with tuberculosis, just as streptomycin entered the medical arsenal. Using his own reaction as a measure, he helped define the toxicity of the new drug that defeated his disease.
      