
        Dr. Aleksandr M. Prokhorov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, died yesterday at his apartment in Moscow, Russian news agencies reported. He was 85.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Prokhorov and Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, physicists at the P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute in Moscow, discovered ways to nudge electrons around atoms into higher-energy states. Their findings led to the development of the maser, a device that emits microwave radiation of a single wavelength. (Maser is an acronym for microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation.)
        When the maser techniques were adapted to the shorter wavelengths of light, the devices became known as lasers.
        Dr. Prokhorov and Dr. Basov, along with Dr. Charles H. Townes, who independently developed a maser about the same time, received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1964 for their research.
        Dr. Prokhorov also investigated ways to focus masers and use parallel mirrors to intensify the beams by reflecting them. In the 1960's, his research led to the development of several very powerful lasers.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Prokhorov was editor in chief of the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, the nation's basic reference work. In 1983 he founded the General Physics Institute in Moscow, part of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and he served as the institute's director until 1988.
        Aleksandr Prokhorov was born in 1916 in Atherton, Australia. In 1923, after the czar had been overthrown, the family returned to Russia.
        Dr. Prokhorov graduated from Leningrad State University in 1939. His graduate studies at the Lebedev Institute were interrupted by service in the Soviet army. After being wounded twice, Dr. Prokhorov was discharged in 1944 as a disabled war veteran, and he returned to his studies. He completed his doctorate in 1951.
        Dr. Prokhorov was among 97 Nobel Prize winners who called for a freeze on the development and deployment of nuclear weapons in 1982.
        The next year, he was one of four Soviet scientists to criticize Dr. Andrei D. Sakharov, the Soviet physicist and rights advocate, who wrote an article contending that the United States might have to match the Soviet Union in nuclear weapons before effective arms-reduction negotiations could begin.
        The next year, Dr. Prokhorov was one of four Soviet Nobel laureates to sign a letter to President Reagan on behalf of Leonard Peltier, an imprisoned American Indian activist. That letter appeared to be part of a Soviet publicity campaign to deflect attention from a hunger strike by Dr. Sakharov.
      