
        Dr. Max Perutz, whose success in elucidating the structure of the hemoglobin molecule helped give birth to the field of molecular biology and brought him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1962, died on Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Cambridge, England. He was 87.
        Dr. Perutz's discovery, his colleagues said, opened a window on proteins, the basic working parts of living organisms, and provided a cornerstone for many fundamental advances in molecular medicine and genetics over the last three decades.
        Dr. Perutz ''transformed our perception of the machinery of life,'' said Dr. Alexander Rich, a professor of biophysics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a friend of his. By showing in the finest detail how hemoglobin was constructed, Dr. Perutz's work helped biologists understand the molecule's role in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide throughout the bloodstream.
        In the years after receiving the Nobel Prize, Dr. Perutz continued to investigate the function of hemoglobin, in both health and disease.
        He continued to work until his death: a paper of his on a protein associated with Huntington's disease is being prepared for publication in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, a leading scientific journal.
        Dr. Perutz began his experiments with hemoglobin in the late 1930's, when the idea of turning the tools of physics to biological problems was still nascent.
        Using X-ray crystallography, a technique for determining the type and distribution of atoms in a crystal by shining X-rays on it, researchers already had successfully decoded the structure of a simple inorganic molecule like sodium chloride, ordinary table salt, which has only two atoms per molecule.
        But they had been bedeviled in applying the technique to far more complex molecules, like proteins, which make up living organisms.
        Dr. Perutz, working at the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge, managed to overcome this barrier. A chance conversation with a cousin's husband in Prague in 1937 gave him the idea of studying hemoglobin. And soon he began a series of experiments with crystals of horse hemoglobin grown for him by a physiologist at Cambridge, Dr. Gilbert S. Adair.
        Dr. Perutz's work, however, was delayed by the war, and it was not until 1953 that he made a decisive advance by comparing ordinary hemoglobin crystals with others that had mercury atoms embedded in them. The contrast provided a key to interpreting the pattern of spots created by the X-rays and determining the position of the atoms in the molecule. In 1959, he worked out the complete structure of the molecule, although he continued to produce more exact versions throughout his career.
        ''It was a very long and uncertain step from the establishment of X-ray crystallography to the application of it to large molecules,'' said Dr. Paul M. Doty, an emeritus professor of molecular biology at Harvard, who knew Dr. Perutz in Cambridge. ''He was the first to do it and succeed.''
        In 1957, his colleague Dr. John Kendrew, using Dr. Perutz's techniques, determined the structure of a smaller molecule, myoglobin. In 1960, the journal Nature published Dr. Perutz's and Dr. Kendrew's discoveries side by side, and two years later, the two men shared the Nobel Prize for their work. Dr. Kendrew died in 1997.
        Max Ferdinand Perutz was born in Vienna on May 19, 1914, the son of parents whose families had made a fortune in the textile industry. His mother and father wanted him to study law and join the family business, but by the end of grammar school, he had developed a strong interest in chemistry.
        In an organic chemistry course at Vienna University, where he enrolled in 1932, Dr. Perutz encountered the work of the Cambridge biochemist Sir Frederick Gowland Hopkins, a Nobel laureate, and decided that he would pursue his doctoral degree there.
        He arrived at the Cavendish Laboratory in 1936, and in 1939, when his parents had their business seized under the Nazis, became a research assistant to Sir Lawrence Bragg, then the director of the laboratory and another Nobel laureate. Mr. Perutz received his doctorate from the University of Cambridge in 1940.
        Yet, in a climate of war, his years at Cavendish were not undisturbed. In 1940, the British government called for the arrest of all aliens living in coastal areas, and Dr. Perutz found himself suddenly in custody.
        ''It was a very nice, very sunny day -- a nasty day to be arrested,'' he told Horace Freeland Judson in an interview for Mr. Judson's 1979 book, ''The Eighth Day of Creation.''
        Shipped to an internment camp in Canada, Dr. Perutz joined forces with several other imprisoned scientists, including the theoretical physicist Karl Fuchs and the cosmologist Thomas Gold, forming a de facto university. Each expert, according to Mr. Judson and colleagues of Dr. Perutz, taught courses in his specialty. Dr. Perutz, Mr. Judson noted in his book, lectured on X-ray analysis.
        Later, after returning to Cambridge and his laboratory in 1941, Dr. Perutz was called upon to help with the war by joining a secret effort, called Project Habbakuk after a Hebrew prophet, involving the mechanical properties of ice. As described by Mr. Judson in his book, the goal was to create an aircraft carrier made of ice in the middle of the North Atlantic. The project was eventually abandoned as impractical.
        Still, said Dr. Doty, Dr. Perutz ''had an interest in glaciology.''
        ''He devised a method where you drilled a hole through a glacier and then put down a tube and by measuring the reflection of light you could tell how the glacier was moving,'' Dr. Doty said.
        In 1942, Dr. Perutz married Gisela Peiser, who survives him; he is also survived by two children, Robin Perutz, a professor of chemistry at York University, and Vivien Perutz, a lecturer in the history of art at the University of East Anglia, and two grandchildren.
        From 1947 to 1962, Dr. Perutz was the director of the Medical Research Council Unit for Molecular Biology at Cavendish. That year he founded the Medical Research Council Laboratory for Molecular Biology, also at Cavendish, and was its chairman until 1979.
        In addition to his scientific work, Dr. Perutz was a regular contributor to The New York Review of Books, writing on a wide variety of scientific and medical topics. Many of these articles became part of the collection ''I Wish I'd Made You Angry Earlier: Essays on Science, Scientists and Humanity'' (1998).
        He is also the author of another collection, ''Is Science Necessary? Essays on Science and Scientists'' (1989), and of many scientific articles.
        A member of numerous scientific honors societies, including the National Academy of Sciences and the Royal Society, in 1997 he became the fifth recipient of the Lewis Thomas Prize from Rockefeller University, which honors scientists for their literary achievements.
        Yet it was the science itself that held endless fascination for Dr. Perutz. In an interview reported in Mr. Judson's book, Dr. Kendrew recalled coming upon Dr. Perutz in his laboratory one Saturday evening in 1971.
        ''There was Max in a white coat mounting a crystal,'' Dr. Kendrew told Mr. Judson. ''The thought occurred to me that if I had come into the lab 30 years ago, on a Saturday evening, Max would have been in a white coat mounting a crystal -- just the same. And he loves it, of course, and nothing would persuade him to do differently.
        Dr. Doty added, ''He grew with the science he helped to establish.''
      