
        Reggie Montgomery, an actor and director who was the first black clown to perform with the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, was found dead in his New York apartment on Jan. 13. He was 54.
        The cause will be determined by an autopsy, said Lori Tan Chinn, a friend. A police spokesman said there was no evidence of a crime.
        Reginald Alexander Montgomery was born in Tallahassee, Fla., and was drawn early on to a life of performing. His parents were not happy with that decision, he later recalled; they wanted him to be an English teacher. But he studied drama at Florida A&M University, graduating with a bachelor of fine arts degree in 1968.
        Mr. Montgomery soon found himself cavorting with the carny crowd. In 1969 he was invited to a newly established six-week Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College, where classes were taught by the likes of Otto Griebling and Emmett Kelly Sr., circus legends.
        Mr. Montgomery, the only black man in the classes, had a few stipulations; he would not, for example, do white face. ''My own paint job's good enough,'' he told Ebony magazine in 1969.
        His singular status notwithstanding, Mr. Montgomery said he found a new level of freedom in performing with the circus. ''We're probably the most noncomplicated family in the world,'' he said. ''We've got people from more than 18 foreign countries. Nobody allows himself to get uptight.''
        Mr. Montgomery's clowning days soon gave way to more serious aspirations. After a season with the circus, he returned to school, receiving a master's degree in fine arts from Trinity University in San Antonio.
        During the 1970's Mr. Montgomery lived both in Dallas, where he established the Minority Repertory Theater, and in Los Angeles, where he acted in film and television. Not until 1982, however, did he come to New York, a move that coincided with his biggest successes.
        In 1986 he was cast in ''The Colored Museum,'' a series of satirical sketches about black American history written by George C. Wolfe. Mr. Montgomery played various characters, including Walter-Lee-Beau-Willy, a purposely stereotypical black man whose brow, in the words of the play, was ''heavy with 300 years of oppression.'' New York critics raved about the show -- and Mr. Montgomery -- and it was subsequently shown nationwide on PBS's ''Great Performances.''
        Over the decade Mr. Montgomery was in a series of prominent plays about the African-American experience, including productions of Suzan-Lori Parks's ''America Play'' at the Public, ''I Ain't Yo' Uncle: The New Jack Revisionist Uncle Tom's Cabin'' at the Hartford Stage Company, and productions featuring the work of Zora Neale Hurston: ''Spunk'' (1990) and ''Mule Bone'' (1991).
        Mr. Montgomery also became increasingly busy as a director, working at major regional theaters, including Center Stage in Baltimore, the Dallas Theater Center and Hartford Stage, where he served for two years as associate artistic director.  He was also an acting coach at the Alvin Ailey School of Dance and at the American Musical and Dramatic Arts Academy in New York, and taught drama at Trinity College in Hartford.
        Still, he remained active onstage. In 1999 he appeared in ''In the Blood,'' by Ms. Parks, at the Public Theater. His final acting credit came in New York in July, in ''A Prophet Among Them'' by Wesley Brown, in which he played the writer James Baldwin.
        He is survived by a brother, Rodney Montgomery, of Wellington, Fla., and a sister, Yvonne Montgomery-Curl, of Far Hills, N.J.
        At the time of ''Spunk,'' Mr. Montgomery was asked to describe the feeling of being an actor. ''I feel guilty when people ask me what I do,'' he said. ''I'm getting paid to play.''
      