
        Neal W. O'Connor, a longtime advertising executive who in the 1960's and 1970's helped revive the agency now known as N. W. Ayer & Partners by, among other things, moving its  headquarters to New York from Philadelphia, died on Friday, Jan. 18 in Newtown, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was complications associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his son David said.
        In the mid-1960's, when Mr. O'Connor became president and chief executive of what was then N. W. Ayer & Son, the agency was confronting problems centered on the loss of large accounts like Plymouth and United Airlines, which resulted in office closings.
        But under Mr. O'Connor's aegis, Ayer bounced back, increasing its billings, acquiring two West Coast agencies and re-establishing a presence abroad.
        Most significantly, Mr. O'Connor made strides to restore Ayer's national prominence by moving its headquarters in 1973 to New York, the nation's largest advertising market. It had been based in Philadelphia since its founding in 1869.
        By the time Mr. O'Connor retired at the end of 1980, Ayer had reopened offices in Chicago and Detroit and was again working for clients in important categories like packaged foods, automobiles and airlines. The agency landed accounts from advertisers like General Motors, John Deere and the Army, though the latter raised eyebrows because Mr. O'Connor's sister was married to a brother of an assistant secretary of defense. Ayer, one of the oldest agencies in the country, is now part of the Bcom3 Group.
        Mr. O'Connor joined Ayer in 1949 as a junior account executive after being recruited from Syracuse University, which he graduated from that year. He rose to become president in 1965 and added the post of chief executive a year later. He became chairman in 1973. Mr. O'Connor relinquished his duties as chairman and chief executive to Louis T. Hagopian in 1976, then served as  chairman of the executive committee before retiring.
        Mr. O'Connor also served as chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies from 1975 to 1976, and as the agency representative on the steering committee of the National Advertising Review Board, part of the industry's first substantial attempt at self-regulation.
        Neal William O'Connor was born Aug. 25, 1925, in Milwaukee. He served in the Army before attending Syracuse.
        In addition to his son David, of Malibu, Calif., Mr. O'Connor is survived by his wife, Nancy Turner O'Connor, whom he married in 1950, of Princeton; two other sons, Robert, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Thomas, of Swampscott, Mass.; a brother, Paul of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a sister, Jeanne O'Connor Kelley, of Milwaukee; and three grandchildren, Robert, Rennie and Lucy.
      