
        William T. Dillard, who founded the Dillard's department store chain, built it into the nation's third largest and then presided as his stores lost prestige and profits, died yesterday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 87.
        Mr. Dillard was born Sept. 2, 1914, in Mineral Springs, Ark., the son and grandson of merchants. He started his training in the retailing business at 12, when he went to work for his father, who owned the local general store.
        After attending the University of Arkansas and Columbia University, where he earned an M.B.A., Mr. Dillard borrowed $8,000 from his father and opened a department store in Nashville, Ark., in 1938 at the height of the Depression.
        Although it was hardly a propitious time to start a business, Dillard's prospered almost from the start. Mr. Dillard said his philosophy was to focus on giving the customers value and to advertise. In 1948, Mr. Dillard sold the Nashville store and used the money to start creating an empire. He expanded first in Texas and soon had stores all over the South.
        In 1964, Mr. Dillard opened a store in Austin, Tex., his first one in a shopping mall, and quickly saw that malls would offer great opportunity to reach rapidly growing suburban populations. As shopping centers blossomed in the 1960's and 1970's, so did Dillard's. The chain now runs 350 stores in 29 states and has roughly $8.5 billion in sales.
        Mr. Dillard was also visionary in the use of technology, particularly computerized checkout systems that track inventory. ''He was earlier than most in seeing the growth of shopping center retailing,'' said William H. Sutton, a lawyer in Little Rock who has been a director of Dillard's since 1994. ''He insisted on innovation in computer systems.''
        Although Mr. Dillard was able to exploit computers and malls before other chains, he was determinedly old-fashioned in other ways, something that eventually became a handicap. For example, long after Dillard's had risen to be one of the largest retailers in the nation and sold stock to the public in 1969, Mr. Dillard employed all five of his grown children in senior positions with the chain.
        When Mr. Dillard retired as chief executive in 1998, his eldest son, William Dillard II, succeeded him. A second son, Alex Dillard, is president. Two daughters, Drue Corbusier and Denise Mahaffy, and a third son, Mike, also hold titles of vice president and higher.
        Such an arrangement, unusual for a public company, has been a particular source of criticism from analysts who follow Dillard's because the chain has had more than its fair share of financial woes in recent years. While most retailers had banner sales and earnings in the latter part of the 1990's, Dillard's sales and earnings stagnated by comparison.
        The stock, which hit a high of $50.38 a share in 1992, traded below $20 a share for much of last year. In addition, Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's have both reduced the company's credit rating below investment grade.
        ''It is a public company run as a private company,'' said Wayne Hood, a stock analyst for Prudential Securities. ''The earnings slide they have had over the years would have normally caused a replacement of management at many levels, but they control'' the class of company stock, with voting control.
        In addition to his five children, Mr. Dillard is survived by his wife, Alexa, and 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      