
        James Blackwood, the sharecroppers' son whose resonant voice took him from the country churches and revival tents of red-dirt Mississippi to the summits of gospel music, died on Feb. 3 in Memphis. He was 82.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, his son Billy said.
        Mr. Blackwood, the last surviving founding member of the famed Blackwood Brothers gospel quartet, was sometimes called the Frank Sinatra of gospel music, an allusion to his 200 albums, 9 Grammys and personal appearances from the Kennedy Center in Washington to the First Baptist Church in Moscow.
        His humble reverence would hardly have fitted Sinatra's swaggering ''rat pack.''
        ''It really didn't matter if someone was Elvis or the lady at the post office,'' his son said. ''He had time for everybody.''
        But Mr. Blackwood was particularly fond of Elvis Presley, whom he first got to know at the First Assembly of God Church in Memphis, where their families belonged; like Presley he absorbed the music of both black and white churches. He befriended Presley when he was still an unknown truck driver, buying him a ticket to see the Blackwood Brothers Quartet at one of their monthly sold-out concerts at the Ellis Auditorium in Memphis.
        Later in life, when he was lonely, Presley would phone the man he always called Mr. Blackwood to ask if he could round up some of the boys. They would gather around a piano at Graceland and sing gospel songs.
        Mr. Blackwood sang at the funeral of Presley, whose only Grammys were for gospel songs, and of Presley's mother. Both times, he sang ''How Great Thou Art.''
        James Webre Blackwood was born in Choctaw County, Miss., where his parents farmed land owned by someone else and paid the landlord with much of the crop. As a boy, he hunted squirrels and sold them for a quarter each. He loved to listen to his father play the fiddle.
        When he was 7, his brother Doyle, eight years older, bought a mandolin. They began singing duets, mixing church songs and popular tunes like ''Red River Valley.''
        According to an article in The Dallas Morning News, when he was 10 he and Doyle wanted badly to go to singing school at a church three miles away, but they lacked the tuition of $3 each for 10 nights. When their mother heard about it, she sold enough of her chickens to raise $6.
        A man at the school asked if the two would like to sing in a quartet with him. They accepted and loved it. In 1934, the brothers formed their own group, the Blackwood Brothers Quartet. The two other original members were their brother Roy and his son, R. W.
        The quartet performed at all-day church songfests, camp meetings and schools, subsisting on ''free-will offerings'' during the Depression.
        As their popularity grew, so did the wattage of the radio stations on which they were heard. They sang at the one-man WHEF in Kosciusko, Miss., then on the bigger WJDX in Jackson, then on the 50,000-watt KWKH in Shreveport, La. Next came the ''V. O. Stamps Singing Convention on the Air'' in Dallas.
        In 1940, V. O. Stamps, president of the Stamps-Baxter Music Company and a major figure in gospel music, asked them to move to Shenandoah, Iowa, to broadcast on a station there. When World War II started, the group broke up, and James worked as a welder at a factory in California.
        After the war, the Blackwoods resumed their career in Iowa. They moved to Memphis in 1950, and sang on the WMPS High Noon Roundup. Their audience included Presley and Johnny Cash.
        Their big break came in 1954, when they sang ''Have You Talked to the Man Upstairs?'' on ''Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts'' on CBS.
        Before they went on the air, R. W. Blackwood, James's nephew, asked if the group should tone down their Southern accents.
        ''No, sir,'' James replied. ''Let's be ourselves. No false airs and graces. Let's just let our little lights shine real natural-like.''
        They won first place and landed a contract with R.C.A., but most important, put their brand of sacred music before a national audience for the first time. They became the first gospel group to sell a million records.
        ''The Godfrey show was the birth of a genre of music that people were soon going crazy for,'' Billy Blackwood said.
        But two weeks after the Godfrey appearance, R. W. Blackwood and the bass singer, Bill Lyles, who had been added to the quartet, died in a plane crash. The surviving Blackwoods regrouped again, adding Cecil Blackwood and J. D. Sumner. They also bought a bus.
        In 1970, James Blackwood retired because of health problems and was replaced by his son, Jimmy. But he continued singing, sometimes with the old group, at times with others. In 1999, he was still making 75 appearances a year.
        The Gospel Music Association named him top male vocalist seven times. He was nominated for Grammys in 31 different years, and won 9 times.
        An album Mr. Blackwood made with the Light Crust Doughboys and Ann-Margret, ''God Is Love: The Gospel Sessions,'' is currently nominated for a Grammy and a Dove.
        The love of Mr. Blackwood's life was his wife, Miriam Le. He met her at a church after noticing her name on a hymnal and realizing that she had been calling in to the Blackwoods' live radio show and making requests. They remained married for 62 years.
        In addition to his wife and his son Billy, of Hendersonville, Tenn., he is survived by another son, Jimmy, of Memphis, six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Though deeply faithful, Mr. Blackwood was not sanctimonious. He enjoyed outrageous practical jokes, like hiding a friend's false teeth. He once turned a complete somersault off the stage and came up singing without missing a word.
        Mr. Sumner, who sang with Mr. Blackwood and was one of his best friends, wrote a humorous tribute in a book titled ''James Blackwood Memories'' (Quail Ridge Press, 1997). He suggested that Mr. Blackwood was not only the greatest gospel singer, but perhaps ''the greatest merchandiser of all time.''
        He wrote, ''When James dies and people are walking by to view the body, his wife Mim will be at the foot of the coffin, saying, 'Here's James's latest release, $10 each or three for $25.'
        ''Then, at the head of the coffin, Cecil will be standing with a family Bible saying, 'If you want to go where Uncle James is, this book will tell you how to get there. Just $5 down and $5 a month.' James put it in his will that way, I think.''
      