
        Lloyd Kiva New, an artist and designer who taught generations of American Indian artists at the Institute of American Indian Arts, an innovative school that he and a colleague founded in Santa Fe, N.M., died on Friday in a hospital in Santa Fe, where he lived. He was 86.
        Mr. New, a Cherokee born in Oklahoma, was the first art director and the longtime president of the institute, which had a predominantly Native American faculty. He had a broad, humanistic approach to the arts, stressing creative links to the traditional arts but urging students not to be bound by them and to reject stereotypical notions of American Indian art and culture.
        ''He felt that the tradition should serve as the basis for contemporary native artists to flex their imagination and creativity,'' said Rick West, the director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian in Washington.
        ''He liberated native artists,'' Mr. West said.
        Beginning in 1946, when he set up a studio in Scottsdale, Ariz., he sold Cherokee-derived designs to Neiman-Marcus and other stores. Mr. New gave up a career as a fashion designer in the late 1950's for a number of progressive educational projects, including the Southwest Indian Arts Project and the Phoenix Indian School.
        In 1962 he and Dr. George Boyce founded the Institute of American Indian Arts, which was financed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior. The school began as a two-year program offering high school diplomas and is now a four-year college.
        A former faculty member, Dave Warren, described the environment Mr. New fostered at the institute as an ''intertribal experience'' in which students from tribes around the country rediscovered their own heritage and shared it with others. The school attracted worldwide attention and was broadly influential in its approach.
        ''The creative genius behind what he did is not only in serving American Indian artists,'' Mr. Warren said, ''but finding a way to look at the meaning of art and culture and put them into an institution and a philosophy.''
        Mr. New retired as full-time president of the institute in 1978 but remained president emeritus. He also served as an adviser on the creation of the National Museum of the American Indian and in the ongoing debate about its planned campus on the Mall in Washington. In 2000 he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Art Institute of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife, Aysen; two children from a previous marriage, Jeff New of Cortez, Colo., and Nancy Sandroff, of St. Louis; and five grandchildren.
      