
        Ira Waldbaum, who dropped out of college to help run his family's six small grocery stores in Brooklyn and ended up building what was at one time the nation's 12th largest supermarket chain, died Wednesday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 74.
        The family could not be reached yesterday for the cause of death. Mr. Waldbaum lived in Delray Beach, Fla., and Old Westbury, N.Y.
        Mr. Waldbaum was known for shrewd management and strong balance sheets. He tried to give customers cleanliness, variety and inexpensive merchandise -- the same things his parents offered in the butter-and-egg store on DeKalb Avenue in Brooklyn where Waldbaum's began.
        ''This is Waldbaum's,'' he said as he guided a reporter from The New York Times through one of his stores in 1982. He pointed to a tower of canned beets priced three for $1. ''Pile it high and sell it cheap.''
        Like his mother, Julia, who was secretary of the company well into her 80's, he visited stores every day to monitor operations. He was known for noticing details like islands of merchandise that blocked access to shelves; he would immediately order them removed.
        ''His whole life is that business,'' Arthur Lichtendorf, an analyst for E. F. Hutton & Company, said in 1986, when Waldbaum's was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in a $287 million deal. The Waldbaum family got $158 million.
        Even competitors admired his acumen publicly.
        ''I felt bad when Ira sold to A.&P. because we had a friendly rivalry, and I was always looking to outdo him,'' said Mel Weitz, president of Melmarkets, a 16-store Foodtown affiliate, in an interview with Supermarket News in 1987.
        At the time of the sale, Waldbaum's had 7,500 employees and sales of $2 billion at its 140 stores in New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts.
        Mr. Waldbaum was born in Brooklyn. He attended Midwood High School in Flatbush, and wanted to be a trumpet player. He went to the New York University School of Commerce but quit in 1948 because his father, Israel, became ill and died. He took over the business.
        But his mother, whose picture was on most of the 400 products sold under the Waldbaum's label, said his involvement began even earlier.
        ''He trained behind a checkout counter before he was born,'' she said. ''I helped out behind the counter while I was pregnant, and Ira worked in the stores when he was a kid.''
        By the time Waldbaum's sold stock to the public in 1962, it had 25 stores and sales of $80 million. In 1970 he bought the Food Mart chain in Connecticut and Massachusetts.
        But the company remained essentially a small-store business, with the average store about 20,000 square feet. The first big store -- about 55,000 square feet -- opened in the early 1980's in Greenfield, Mass.
        He never had a store in Manhattan; he said he thought Manhattan costs were too high and people bought too little on average.
        More often than not, he trusted his instincts for locations. For example, when Brooklyn customers asked for cartons for moving, he asked where they were going. ''When they mentioned Kew Gardens,'' he said, ''I decided to open a store there. That's my kind of market research.''
        He is survived by his wife, Bernice, to whom he was married for 53 years; their daughters, Randie and Nancy; their sons, Arthur and Martin; and seven grandchildren.
        Occasionally, Mr. Waldbaum was philosophical. ''If I had my life to live over, I would have seen the growth of the large store sooner and the need for building a big business faster,'' he said. ''But I may not have had as much fun that way, so I have no regrets.''
      