
        Dave Van Ronk, the gravel-voiced, ragtime-picking patriarch of the Greenwich Village folk scene, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his manager, Mitchell Greenhill.
        Mr. Van Ronk had three essential qualities for his role in the folk revival of the 1950's and 60's: a sense of history, a sense of humor and a gift for making fellow musicians feel at home. He was nicknamed the Mayor of Macdougal Street, and his apartment became a gathering place for folk musicians of his own generation and the ones that followed, among them Tom Paxton, Janis Ian, Christine Lavin and Suzanne Vega. For more than 40 years he worked the folk circuit of clubs, coffeehouses and festivals, and he made two dozen albums.
        Mr. Van Ronk was born in Brooklyn on June 30, 1936. His grandfather had played ragtime piano at Catskill Mountain resorts, and Dave grew up listening to jazz on the radio. He turned to blues, he once recalled, as a result of record collecting. ''I went to the Jazz Record Center looking to pick up a Hot Five recording,'' he said, referring to Louis Armstrong's group. ''And I ran across a Blind Lemon Jefferson. If the Hot Five cost a dollar and a half and the Blind Lemon Jefferson cost 35 cents, if you're a 14-year-old kid, what are you going to do?''
        He started playing guitar in grade school, and in high school he played tenor banjo with an amateur group. He was one of many city dwellers who fell in love with the rough-hewn profundity of older rural music. The folk singer Odetta encouraged him to perform, and by 1957 he was singing in Greenwich Village coffeehouses. He made his first recording, ''Skiffle in Stereo,'' in 1958 as a member of the Orange Blossom Jug Five. ''It was truly appalling,'' Mr. Van Ronk once said, ''but we couldn't stop them from putting it out.''
        He made his first solo album in 1959 for the Folkways label, ''Dave Van Ronk Sings Earthy Blues and Ballads,'' followed in 1960 by ''Dave Van Ronk Sings Ballads, Blues and Spirituals.'' With those albums, which were reissued by Smithsonian Folkways in 1991, he was able to start touring nationally on the growing folk circuit. Early in the 60's, when Peter Yarrow's manager was putting together the group that would become Peter, Paul and Mary, Mr. Van Ronk was considered for the spot that went to Noel Paul Stookey.
        When folk singers were flocking to Greenwich Village, Mr. Van Ronk encouraged many of them, including Bob Dylan, a frequent overnight guest. He was fond of cooking, and an invitation to one of his elaborate meals was a sign of musical approval.
        ''He was an amazing magnetic drawing force,'' said the songwriter Janis Ian. ''He was a song encyclopedia, first and foremost, and he was a great raconteur. And there was something about Dave that made you feel safe and challenged at the same time. I would play him a new song and wait and hope.''
        In a sometimes self-righteous Greenwich Village scene, Mr. Van Ronk stood outside factionalism. ''He was an iconoclast,'' Ms. Ian said. ''He didn't hesitate to call somebody a fool. Before folk music became big money, it was a very small elitist group of snobs, who really resented anybody stretching the boundaries. That sort of attitude drove him completely crazy.''
        He spent much of his career performing solo with a repertory that spanned Lightnin' Hopkins, Joni Mitchell, Hoagy Carmichael, Scott Joplin and his own songs. He recorded with jug bands, and for one album a rock band. On his last album, ''Sweet and Lowdown'' (Justin Time), he sang standards with a jazz group. ''He always said he was a jazz singer first and foremost, but he got lumped in with the folk boom,'' Ms. Lavin said.
        Mr. Van Ronk was left-handed but played the guitar right-handed. Although he did not read music, he made transcriptions of pieces like ''Maple Leaf Rag'' with a system of notation that he invented. He made an instructional guitar videotape series, ''Fingerpicking Folk, Blues and Ragtime Guitar.''
        He narrated a version of ''Peter and the Wolf'' with the Prokofiev score arranged for jug band in 1990 and made an album of Bertolt Brecht songs in 1992. He appears on a compilation of performances from Fast Folk, the long-running Greenwich Village songwriters' workshop, which has just been released on Smithsonian Folkways.
        ''Dave was always extremely interested in the next generation,'' said his wife, Andrea Vuocolo, who survives him. ''I can remember him lecturing some of the other performers of his generation, saying, 'You have to pay attention to what the kids are doing.' ''
        Correction:  February 16, 2002, Saturday  An obituary of the folk singer Dave Van Ronk on Tuesday misstated the name and release date of a Folkways album. It was ''Dave Van Ronk Sings Ballads, Blues and a Spiritual,'' not ''and Spirituals.'' It was released in 1959, not 1960. The article also misstated the date of a second album and thus reversed the release order for the two. ''Dave Van Ronk Sings Earthy Ballads and Blues'' was issued in 1961, not 1959.
      