
        Dr. Robert W. Berliner, a former dean of the Yale School of Medicine and an authority on renal physiology whose work helped clarify some of the kidney's most important functions, died on Feb. 5 in New Haven. He was 86.
        In the late 1940's, Dr. Berliner and his team did research that demonstrated the mechanism by which the kidney regulates the body's balance of salt and water.
        Their research, done at the Goldwater Memorial Hospital in New York and later at the National Institutes of Health, was among the first to show how the kidney transports salts like potassium, sodium and hydrogen. It also helped create an understanding of the molecular processes involved in kidney disease.
        ''His work helped advance the field of kidney research by clarifying a fundamental function of the kidney that 50 years ago was not understood,'' said Dr. Gerhard H. Giebisch, a professor of cellular and molecular physiology at the Yale medical school.
        In the late 60's, when the N.I.H. was expanding rapidly with a significantly increased budget, Dr. Berliner became its deputy director of science and oversaw all of the research conducted on the N.I.H. campus in Maryland. He also continued his kidney research and recruited many young scientists who went on to become leaders in their fields.
        ''He helped shape the N.I.H. and set direction for it during a critical period,'' said Dr. Maxine Singer, president of the Carnegie Institution in Washington.
        Dr. Berliner's career with the N.I.H. began in 1950, after a brief professorship at Columbia's medical school. He served in a variety of positions at the N.I.H. and started its Laboratory of Kidney and Electrolyte Metabolism, serving as its director for 12 years. He left the N.I.H. in 1973 to become dean of the Yale medical school and remained there until he retired in 1984. He had a lectureship and a professorship named in his honor, a rare feat.
        Robert William Berliner was born in New York City. He received his undergraduate degree from Yale and his medical degree from Columbia. Dr. Berliner lived with wife, Leah, in Hamden, Conn. He is also survived by a brother, William, of Armonk, N.Y.; two sons, Robert Jr., of Chicago, and Henry, of New Haven; two daughters, Alice Hadler and Nancy Berliner, both of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      