
        Victor Posner, a corporate raider whose exploits over three decades earned him a place in the rogue's gallery of American business, died  on Monday at the Miami Heart Institute. He was 83 and lived in Miami Beach.
        The cause was pneumonia, according to Milton Farrell, his friend and lawyer.
        A master of the hostile takeover from the mid-1960's until the early 1990's, Mr. Posner at one time or another controlled public companies as diverse as the Arby's restaurant chain, Royal Crown Cola and Sharon Steel. He mismanaged many of these companies into bankruptcy but enriched himself as they foundered. He was forced to sell others at a discount.
        Even as shareholders suffered, Mr. Posner was one of America's highest paid executives for years, drawing millions of dollars in annual salaries from the corporations he ran. But by the late 1980's, Mr. Posner was facing mounting legal problems.
        In 1987, he pleaded no contest to a charge of tax evasion and was ordered to give $3 million to the homeless and serve meals in a Miami shelter as part of 5,000 hours of community service.
        A year later, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Mr. Posner and his son Steven of conspiring with Ivan F. Boesky and Michael R. Milken to gain control of the Fischbach Corporation, an electrical company in New York, in 1984. In its civil complaint, the S.E.C. contended that with Mr. Milken's help, Mr. Posner and his son secretly arranged to ''park'' Fischbach stock, or place it with Mr. Boesky, to conceal their intention to seize control of the company.
        Mr. Boesky and Mr. Milken pleaded guilty to felony charges stemming from the transaction.
        In 1990, shareholders in the DWG Corporation, a Detroit cigar company that Mr. Posner used as a vehicle to acquire other companies, sued Mr. Posner and his son, contending they had plundered DWG.
        A federal judge installed three directors to serve as watchdogs. Two years later, they reported that Mr. Posner drew $31 million in compensation from DWG over five years, even as the company had difficulty finding the cash to pay its creditors and employees.
        Mr. Posner settled the lawsuit by selling half his shares in DWG to a partnership run by the financiers Nelson Peltz and Peter May. He agreed to sell the balance of his stake in 1999.
        In December 1993, all of this history led Judge Milton Pollack of Federal District Court in New York, in ruling on the Fischbach case, to ban Mr. Posner and his son from any further involvement with public companies. The judge also ordered them to give up control of their remaining public companies and to repay about $4 million they had received from Fischbach.
        In his ruling, Judge Pollack said Mr. Posner was ''contemptuous of the interests of public shareholders.''
        James W. Michaels, the former editor of Forbes magazine, said of Mr. Posner, ''He was a low-quality, cynical, greedy man who didn't care about his own reputation.''
        Still, Mr. Posner was an active and generous philanthropist for causes and institutions in the Miami area.
        The Victor Posner Center for Communicative Disorders at the University of Miami Ear Institute and Posner Hall at Barry University are named in his honor. A founder of the Mount Sinai Medical Center, he also supported the Jackson Memorial Foundation and Miami Children's Hospital.
        In large measure, Mr. Posner was able to continue his philanthropy even during his legal troubles because of big real estate holdings he had amassed in Maryland and Florida.
        The son of immigrants from Russia, Victor Posner was born in Baltimore. He dropped out of school at 13 to work in a grocery store owned by his parents.
        In Depression-era Baltimore, Mr. Posner used his grocery store earnings to build low-cost housing, selling the homes for less than the prevailing market prices but retaining the land beneath the houses.
        ''He assembled a real estate empire at an early age,'' said Mr. Farrell, his lawyer. ''He built large numbers of housing units at a time, something no one else had done at the time. His understanding of financial matters was unequaled.''
        Mr. Posner said he was a millionaire by age 25. In a 1994 article, The Wall Street Journal said he continued to collect rent on more than 20,000 ground leases.
        Ira Elegant, a Miami lawyer who once worked for Mr. Posner, told The Journal that the favorite motto of his former boss was ''I buy by the mile and sell by the inch.''
        By the mid-1950's Mr. Posner had begun buying up property in Florida. The Security Management Corporation in Miami, the centerpiece of his private real estate empire, owns large stretches of oceanfront property in the Miami area.
        Although he had been in ill health for some time, Mr. Posner ''was very strong willed'' up until his death, Mr. Farrell said. ''He was unconcerned with how he was viewed by others,'' he added.
        Victor Posner is survived by a brother, Morton Posner, and a sister, Beatrice Cohen, both of Baltimore; four children, Steven and Gail Posner of Miami Beach; Tracy Posner Ward of Norco, Calif.; Lance T. Posner of Henderson, Nev.; and seven grandchildren.
      