
        Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of Central Intelligence, died on Sunday at the Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85.
        General Walters was known for occupying a front-row seat for an array of historic events of the post-World War II era, as a translator, adviser, administrator and diplomat. He spoke seven or eight languages, five of them fluently, and served part-time as an interpreter to five presidents. His fluency helped further his career.
        In ''Silent Missions,'' his 1978 memoir, General Walters described a conversation he had at a reception in 1964 with the Soviet ambassador to Brazil. The ambassador complained to General Walters, then the United States military attaché in Brazil, that when Americans tried to learn a foreign tongue, they suffered because they did not have the Slavs' ear for languages.
        General Walters switched to Russian, asking him if he would like to speak Portuguese instead. The ambassador, insulted, replied, ''Walters, you may be good soldier, but diplomat you are not.''
        Born in New York City on Jan. 3, 1917, he attended Stonyhurst College in England. He joined the Army in 1941 and served in North Africa and Italy in World War II, retiring in 1976 as a lieutenant general.
        From 1955 to 1960 he was a staff assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, serving as an interpreter for him, the vice president, and senior diplomatic and military officials.
        Appointed by President Richard M. Nixon, he was deputy director of the Central Intelligence from 1972 to 1976. In 1981, President Ronald Reagan offered him the job of roving ambassador, which he accepted.
        He was ambassador to the United Nations from 1985 to 1988 and ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany from 1989 to 1991.
        General Walters, who never married, may not have made history in his career, but he saw it firsthand. He accompanied President Harry S. Truman on his meeting with a defiant Gen. Douglas MacArthur and shuttled with President Eisenhower to summit meetings from Geneva to White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.
        Later, as military attaché in Paris, General Walters is remembered for borrowing the private plane of President Georges Pompidou to smuggle Henry A. Kissinger in and out of France for meetings with Le Duc Tho of North Vietnam.
        In 1991, when asked what kept him going as he reached his 50th year of service, General Walters replied, ''My perception that the United States was the only real chance freedom had to survive in the world.''
      