
        Vernon A. Walters, a former ambassador to the United Nations and deputy director of central intelligence, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was 85.
        General Walters occupied a front-row seat at an array of historic events in the post-World War II era, as a translator, adviser, administrator and diplomat. He spoke seven or eight languages, five of them fluently, and served part time as an interpreter to five presidents.
        His fluency in languages helped throughout his career. In ''Silent Missions,'' his 1978 memoir, General Walters described a conversation he had at a reception in 1964 with the Soviet ambassador to Brazil. The ambassador complained to General Walters, then the United States military attaché in Brazil, that Americans always wanted to converse in English. Even when they try to learn a foreign tongue, he explained, they suffer because they do not have the Slavs' ear for languages.
        General Walters switched to Russian in reply, asking him if he would rather speak Portuguese instead. The ambassador, embarrassed, answered, ''Walters, you may be good soldier, but diplomat you are not.''
        Vernon Anthony Walters was born in New York City on January 3, 1917, and attended Stonyhurst College in England. He joined the United States Army in 1941, and served in North Africa and Italy during World War II, retiring in 1976 as a lieutenant general.
        From 1955 to 1960, he was a staff assistant to President Eisenhower, acting as interpreter for the president, vice president and senior diplomatic and military officials.
        Appointed by President Nixon, General Walters was deputy chief of the C.I.A. from 1972 to 1976. Just weeks after Mr. Nixon sent him to the agency, the White House tried to involve the C.I.A. in the Watergate scandal that eventually forced Mr. Nixon's resignation.
        According to later Congressional testimony by John W. Dean 3d, the President's counsel at the time, Mr. Nixon had picked General Walters for the job in order to have a ''good friend'' in the intelligence agency.
        Two Nixon aides, H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, asked General Walters to caution the Federal Bureau of Investigation to limit its inquiries lest they compromise C.I.A. operations. ''It simply did not occur to me that the chief of staff of the President might be asking me something that was illegal or wrong,'' Mr. Walters wrote in his memoir.
        But on orders from his superior, Richard M. Helms, the director of central intelligence, the general rescinded his advisory to the F.B.I. According to General Walters, Mr. Dean subsequently asked him repeatedly to pay off the Watergate burglars with secret C.I.A. funds, but he refused to do so and threatened to resign publicly if there was one more such call.
        In 1981, President Reagan offered General Walters the job of roving ambassador, which he accepted. Finally, he served as ambassador to the United Nations from 1985 to 1988, and as ambassador to West Germany from 1989 to 1991.
        At the time of the appointment of General Walters as ambassador to the United Nations, William E. Colby, the former director of central intelligence, said: ''When he worked for me, he was fearless in expressing his views and totally loyal once a decision was made. I used him as a total alter ego.''
        In 1991, when asked what kept him going into his 50th year of service to the country, General Walters replied, ''My perception that the United States was the only real chance freedom had to survive in the world.''
        He had many opportunities in his career to witness the making of history. He was W. Averell Harriman's aide in the early years of the cold war, accompanied President Truman to a meeting with an insubordinate Gen. Douglas MacArthur during the Korean War and shuttled with President Eisenhower to a series of summit meetings, held in Geneva and White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., among other places.
        As translator for Vice President Nixon during his good-will tour of Latin America in 1958, General Walters was cut in the mouth by broken glass when a mob stoned their car in Caracas. Later, as a military attaché in Paris, General Walters is remembered for borrowing the private plane of President Georges Pompidou to smuggle Henry A. Kissinger in and out of France for clandestine meetings with Le Duc Tho of North Vietnam.
        ''He was great as our James Bond, getting us in and out secretly, even giving us code names,'' said Winston Lord, former president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who accompanied Mr. Kissinger to the secret talks with the Vietnamese.
        General Walters, a bachelor, leaves no immediate survivors. He is to be buried with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery early next month.
      