
        William L. Dwyer, a federal district judge whose imprint on the Pacific Northwest stretched from 500-year-old forests saved from logging by his court rulings to the major league baseball team created as a result of his work as a trial lawyer, died on Tuesday at his home in Seattle. He was 72.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, family members said.
        Known in Seattle as a renaissance man, Mr. Dwyer was an author, an actor, an outdoorsman who had scrambled to many peaks in the Cascade Mountains, a part-owner of an oyster house, a collector of art and a lover of history and Shakespeare who cited both in numerous rulings.
        He was a trial lawyer for 34 years before serving for 15 on the federal bench. In the last five years, while suffering from Parkinson's disease and then lung cancer, he continued his judicial duties on less active senior status while writing his second book. Titled ''In the Hands of the People,'' it is a vigorous defense of the jury system and is to be published this year by St. Martin's Press.
        As a judge, Mr. Dwyer was best known for a 1991 decision that ordered the government to stop permitting logging on up to 60,000 acres of ancient forests a year on public land. The decision held that in allowing that logging, the Forest Service was violating the law by destroying habitat of an endangered species, the Northern spotted owl. The ruling led to a ''forest summit'' called by President Bill Clinton in 1993 that forced major changes in the way the government manages the national forests.
        ''It was huge: that ruling fundamentally changed both the political and ecological landscape of the Northwest,'' said Bill Arthur, Northwest representative of the Sierra Club. ''He literally stopped chain saws before we cut our way to the cliff.''
        He was also one of the nation's first judges to rule against term limits for officeholders. In 1994, after hearing arguments from lawyers including Lloyd N. Cutler, former White House counsel, and former Attorney General Griffin B. Bell, he held that a term-limits law approved by the voters of Washington State was unconstitutional as it applied to members of Congress. His finding was upheld by the Supreme Court, in a separate case.
        Kevin Hamilton, a Seattle lawyer who argued against term limits before Judge Dwyer and later attended the Supreme Court arguments on the issue, said the Dwyer proceeding had been the more intellectually challenging. ''It was in Dwyer's courtroom,'' Mr. Hamilton said, ''that the constitutional stakes were debated most forcefully.''
        William Lee Dwyer was born on March 26, 1929, in Olympia, Wash. An only child reared by his mother, a stenographer, he grew up in Seattle,  attended the University of Washington and received his law degree at New York University in 1953.
        As a trial lawyer in Seattle, he drew national attention in 1963 when he took on the case of John Goldmark, a Democratic state legislator who had been accused of being a Communist. Mr. Goldmark's winning libel case, against a small-town newspaper in eastern Washington,  was a turning point in the late stages of the nation's encounter with a Red scare. The case was the basis of Mr. Dwyer's first book, ''The Goldmark Case: An American Libel Trial.''
        In the 1970's, after Seattle's American League team was moved to Milwaukee, having been in operation here only a year, Mr. Dwyer was hired by the state to file an antitrust suit against the league's owners. On the eve of trial, after a deposition that delved into numerous secrets of baseball ownership, an out-of-court settlement was reached that led to the creation of a new team, the Seattle Mariners, in 1977.
        Mr. Dwyer, a Democrat, was recommended for a federal judgeship by Washington State's two senators, both Republicans, and nominated in 1987 by a Republican president, Ronald Reagan. ''He would always delight in what other people did, and that's how he won a lot of people over,'' said Robert S. Lasnik, a fellow judge in the Western District of Washington.
        His confirmation by the Senate followed a contentious hearing that centered on a sex education manual in the Seattle Public Library, which Mr. Dwyer had defended.
        Mr. Dwyer is survived by his wife of 49 years, Vasiliki Dwyer; three children, Joanne Dwyer Tiffany of Indianola, Wash., Charles, of Indianola, and Tony, of Seattle; and five grandchildren.
      