
        Dr. Arnold Zachary Pfeffer, a New York psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who worked to meld the insights of modern neuroscience with traditional psychoanalytic concepts and started a New York center devoted to that effort, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side, where he also had his practice.
        He was a past president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society and had been a training and supervising analyst there since 1954.
        In the 1990's, at 74, he formed a neuro-psychoanalytical study group that became the institute's Arnold Pfeffer Center for Neuro-Psychoanalysis. His purpose was to bridge the fields of psychoanalysis and neuropsychiatry, which often were at odds in their approaches to mental health, one dealing with the unconscious mind and the other with organic brain function. The center became a model for interdisciplinary research and education in mental health science.
        His center gave rise to similar centers overseas and to a periodical, the Journal of Neuro-Psychoanalysis. The centers organized their own society, the International Neuro-Psychoanalysis Society, which meets annually on alternating sides of the Atlantic.
        For many years, Dr. Pfeffer was a leading specialist in the treatment of alcoholics and narcotics addicts. He engaged in group therapy, produced many papers and a book, and was associated with a number of clinics and institutions.
        He was a former chief psychiatrist at the United States Public Health Service Hospital in Lexington, Ky., and director of the alcoholism section of New York Hospital-Bellevue Medical Center.
        Arnold Pfeffer was born in the Bronx and graduated from City College in 1936. He received a master's degree in biology at the University of Maryland before finishing medical school at Duke University in 1941.
        He had his internship and residency in psychiatry and neurology at Bellevue. He trained as a psychoanalyst at the New York institute, which began his lifelong association with it.
        Dr. Pfeffer is survived by his wife of 61 years, Dr. Marjorie Fingerhood Pfeffer; a daughter, Margaret E. Pfeffer of Manhattan; and a son, Arnold Z. Pfeffer Jr. of Los Angeles.
      