
        R.M. Hare, a moral philosopher who wrestled ethical questions out of the murky realm of emotion and into the hard-edged arena of logic, died on Jan. 29 in his home in Ewelme, England. He was 82.
        Professor Hare had suffered a number of strokes in recent years, his son, John, said.
        One of the pre-eminent moral philosophers of the postwar era, he wrote the classic book ''The Language of Morals'' (1952), taught for nearly four decades at Oxford University and was later graduate research professor emeritus at the University of Florida.
        Moral philosophy, which preoccupied thinkers from Socrates on, aims to answer the question: What is the essential form and function of ethical statements?
        Professor Hare sought an answer by peeling back the surface of everyday moral statements -- ''I should not cheat my employer,''  ''I ought to give to the poor'' -- to reveal the logical infrastructure below.
        ''My life's ambition,'' he once said, was ''to find a way of answering moral questions rationally.''
        In the first half of the 20th century, moral philosophy was more concerned with feeling. A dominant school, called emotivism, viewed ethical propositions as simple mirrors of emotional states. As such, the emotivists said, they reflected speakers' inward feelings, like disapproval (of cheating) or approbation (of generosity).
        But to some philosophers, emotivism was facile and subjective, trafficking in unverifiable speculation; critics called it the ''Boo-Hooray'' theory of morality. How, they asked, could an utterance be proved beyond doubt to be a window to the impenetrable landscape of interior states? What was needed, they argued, was an objective method of unknotting the tangled logic of moral questions.
        Professor Hare devised one. Combining the linguistic analysis of the philosopher J. L. Austin with Kant's idea of the categorical imperative (the injunction to behave as if one's actions were universal law), he developed a theory of morality that set forth two essential properties of moral statements:
        First, a moral statement is prescriptive, functioning not as a barometer of emotional weather but as an actual declaration of behavior, committing the speaker to a pragmatic course of action, like behaving honestly or giving to charity.
        Second, a moral proposition is universalizable, or an instance of a larger truth (like the general concept of charity as a virtue) that applies to virtually everyone.
        Professor Hare's theory, known as prescriptivism, dominated moral philosophy in the 1950's and 60's.  Richard Mervyn Hare was born March 21, 1919, in Backwell, England. While studying at Oxford in the late 1930's, he agonized over whether to enlist or declare himself a pacifist as war loomed in Europe. It was a choice, he would later say, that helped direct him toward moral philosophy.
        He enlisted, serving in the Royal Artillery in the Malayan campaign. With the fall of Singapore in 1942, he was held for three and half years as a Japanese prisoner of war, in conditions that further solidified his resolve to study ethics.
        After the war, he completed his studies at Oxford, joining the faculty in 1947; from 1966 to 1983 he was White's Professor of Moral Philosophy. Besides his son, John, a moral philosopher at Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., Professor Hare is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Verney; three daughters, Bridget George, of Nazareth, Penn.; Louise Knight, of Reading, England; Ellie Hare, of Easington Colliery, England; and six grandchildren.
        In later books, like ''Moral Thinking'' (1981), Professor Hare integrated into his theory the utilitarianism of Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill; what helps define a moral proposition, he came to believe, is that it produces the most felicitous outcome for the greatest number of people.
        Although Professor Hare also worked on more pragmatic issues, like bioethics and town planning, he acknowledged the limitations of his calling in the hands-on solution of social problems.
        ''The only thing that philosophers, as philosophers, can do to help resolve practical issues is to address the arguments that are put forward on the different sides, and try to show which are good and which are bad arguments,'' he wrote in the journal Professional Ethics in 1992. ''Almost everything else that can be done to help resolve the issues can be done better by somebody else.''
      