
        Igor Cassini, who as Cholly Knickerbocker was king of society gossip for the Hearst newspaper chain in the 1940's and 50's, then lost his job after he pleaded no contest to a charge that he represented the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo but without telling the government about it, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan.
        There is some confusion about his age. In his 1977 memoir, ''I'd Do It Again,'' he said his American passport listed his birth date as Sept. 15, 1920, but he suggested that the date was wrong. He did not give a birth year, but other printed sources say it was 1915, and his family said he was 86 when he died.
        In recent years Mr. Cassini was reported to have maintained residences in Italy and Spain. He was the younger brother of Oleg Cassini, the fashion designer who was the official couturier for Jaqueline Kennedy when she was First Lady. His brother survives him, as do four children, Marina, Alexander, Nicholas and Dimitri; a stepchild, Dana Dantine; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In the late 1950's when he was at the peak of his influence, Igor Cassini's words were syndicated in at least 150 newspapers in the United States and abroad; total readership was estimated at 20 million.
        In 1946 not long after he became Cholly Knickerbocker, Time magazine called his material ''highly readable, often unbearable.'' He also had an interest in Martial & Company, a public relations concern, and for a time he was the principal owner of Le Club, a members-only nightclub on the East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Cassini claimed credit for coining the term Jet Set to describe the free-living, free-roaming international rich, and he was proud of the fact that he picked Mrs. Kennedy as ''debutante of the year'' in 1948 when she was Jacqueline Bouvier.
        Mr. Cassini was born in Sebastapol, Russia, the son of Countess Marguerite Cassini, whose father, Arturo, an Italian, had served Czar Nicholas II of Russia as a diplomat. Mr. Cassini's father was Alexander Loiewski, a Russian diplomat, who adopted his wife's last name.
        He first attracted notoriety in the summer of 1939, only a few years after he arrived in this country, when he was a junior columnist for the old Washington Times-Herald and wrote something then regarded as snide about certain members of two prominent Virginia families named Montgomery and Calvert. While he was in Warrenton, Va., to cover a pony show, he went to a dance at a country club. Told someone wanted to see him in the parking lot, he went out and was abducted by three men, two from the Montgomery family, the third a Calvert. He was driven to a remote spot, stripped, then tarred and feathered and warned he would be ''emasculated'' for a second offense.
        His three abductors were eventually charged, fined and put on probation but one local politician said they had ''rendered a service to this community.'' Prominent people like Walter Winchell rushed to his defense and that of freedom of the press.
        Mr. Cassini later reflected, ''From an obscure junior society columnist always worried as to how I would ever find enough material to fill the space I was grudgingly given, I became national news overnight.''
        In 1945 he joined Hearst, became society editor of The New York Journal-American and within a few years made the national spotlight again in a feud with Ed Sullivan, then a New York Daily News columnist. Mr. Cassini suggested that Mr. Sullivan had used bad judgment when he scheduled the ''leftist entertainers'' Larry Adler, the harmonica player, and Paul Draper, the dancer, on his popular Sunday night CBS television show.
        The Ford Motor Company, Mr. Sullivan's sponsor, made Sullivan drop Adler and Draper from the show; Mr. Cassini later conceded, ''Perhaps it was not my finest hour.''
        In the late 1950's Mr. Cassini helped start Martial & Company, believing that public relations did not represent a potential conflict of interest for a journalist. Among his clients were the Brazilian Coffee Bureau, Lanvin, the president and Tourist Bureau of Mexico, A. S. Beck, the shoe-store chain, Fiat automobiles, Roy Chalk Transit and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. Mr. Cassini told The New York Times that he had only a ''minority interest'' in the firm.
        Because of his friendship with Porfirio Rubirosa, an international playboy who had the job of inspecting Dominican embassies, Mr. Cassini had contacts within the Dominican government and said he would have been pleased if Martial could represent it. He always maintained that there was never a contract and that he never received any money from the Dominicans.
        In the early 1960's he told Allen W. Dulles, director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and Joseph Kennedy, father of President John F. Kennedy, that Mr. Rubirosa had told him there were fears of a Castro-inspired coup in Santo Domingo. An alarmed president shortly thereafter dispatched Robert D. Murphy, a business executive who had been an undersecretary of state, on a confidential mission to the Dominican Republic, accompanied by Mr. Cassini, to see if a new Dominican-American relationship could be forged to thwart such a coup.
        News of the unusual mission was published, most prominently in the Saturday Evening Post. The goverment was embarassed to be exposed as relying on a gossip columnist to help shape foreign policy. Mr. Cassini was charged with breaking a federal law requiring all agents of foreign governments to be registered. He at first pleaded not guilty but switched his plea to no contest because, he said, he feared the impact of a contested lengthy trial on his brother Oleg's relationship to Mrs. Kennedy.
        After his trial and imposition of a $10,000 fine, Mr. Cassini lost his job with Hearst, and Martial lost most of its clients.
        Charlene Wrightsman Cassini, then his third wife, took an overdose of sleeping pills soon after and died.  The New York Medical Examiner's office listed her death as ''a probable suicide.''
        Mr. Cassini was married five times. Austine Byrne McDonnell, who later married William Randolph Hearst Jr., divorced him, as did Elizabeth Darrah Waters. After the third Mrs. Cassini died, he married Nadia Mueller, and that marriage ended in divorce. Then he married Brenda Mitchell, and that marriage also ended in divorce.
        He was briefly editor of The New York Express, a weekly, and was publisher of an ill-fated magazine, Status, which he had envisioned as ''a critical journal of elegance.''
      