
        Günter Wand, a German conductor who was known for his penetrating readings of the mainstream Romantic repertory -- particularly the symphonies of Bruckner, Schubert, Beethoven and Brahms -- died last  Thursday at his home in Ulmiz, Switzerland. He was 90.
        Mr. Wand seemed uninterested in the constant travel and self-promotion that drive contemporary musical careers. For much of his life he devoted himself to conducting the Gürzenich Orchestra in Cologne and several German radio orchestras, with only occasional guest conducting visits to other orchestras in Europe. He did not make made his American conducting debut until 1989, when he was 77.
        But by that time he had built a following among American record collectors, whose first encounters with Mr. Wand's conducting were through recordings released on the Nonesuch and EMI Angel labels from the 1960's through the mid-1980's. Interest in his work blossomed in the late 80's when RCA Red Seal began distributing recordings made by Deutsche Harmonia Mundi, the German label for which Mr. Wand had made dozens of discs, and quickly issued boxed sets with his traversals of the major Romantic symphony cycles.
        Thereafter, Mr. Wand recorded copiously for RCA, which offered regular updates of his views on Bruckner and Schubert, as well as forays into the worlds of Debussy, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Mozart and Mussorgsky.
        When Mr. Wand made his belated American debut, he did it in style: he led the Chicago Symphony in a series of concerts devoted to the Schubert ''Unfinished'' Symphony and the Brahms Symphony No. 1, and his stature was such that he demanded and received 11 hours of rehearsal time, considerably more than is typical.
        ''I need more preparation when I am facing an orchestra for the first time,'' he later told an interviewer. ''If I want to bring forth my fantasies about the music, it takes work, real professional work.''
        Mr. Wand was born in Elberfeld, Germany, on Jan. 7, 1912. At Cologne University, he studied composition with Philipp Jarnach and piano with Paul Baumgartner. He later studied conducting with Franz von Hoesslin at the Munich Academy of Music, although he was mostly self-taught as a conductor. His first conducting positions were at opera houses in Wuppertal, Allenstein and Detmold, and in 1938 he was appointed chief conductor of the Cologne Opera.
        When the city's opera house was destroyed in 1944, Mr. Wand moved to Salzburg, where he became conductor of the Mozarteum Orchestra. But he returned to Cologne to help rebuild the its musical life in April 1945. In 1946 he was appointed general music director for the city. He became the music director of the Gürzenich Orchestra in 1947.
        Mr. Wand directed the Gürzenich Orchestra until 1974, when he retired to move to Switzerland with his wife, the soprano Anita Westhoff, who survives him, as does a brother, Kurt.
        Mr. Wand returned to Cologne in 1977 to begin an extensive recording project that included all the Bruckner and Schubert symphonies. And in 1982 he took up the directorship of the North German Radio Symphony Orchestra, in Hamburg, which appointed him honorary conductor for life. He also began a longlasting relationship with the BBC Symphony Orchestra during the 1980's.
        Mr. Wand was often called the last in a long line of German conductors that ran from Arthur Nikisch to Wilhelm Furtwängler and Karl Böhm. But he was uneasy with that notion, not least because he resisted being easily categorized.
        ''I see myself as an outspoken servant of the great composers' works,'' he said. ''That is the conductor's role  -- to serve the music and not his personal instincts.''
      