
        Edmar Mednis, a chess grandmaster who was the first player to beat Bobby Fischer in a United States Chess Championship tournament, died on Feb. 13 in Queens. He was 64 and lived in Queens.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his wife, Baiba.
        Despite having finished second in the 1955 World Junior Championship behind Boris Spassky and having participated in previous championships, Mr. Mednis was not seen as a threat to Mr. Fischer when they met in the first round of the 1962-63 championship. Mr. Fischer had won the championship four times and had not lost a game in an American tournament since 1957. Mr. Mednis played black and the game went to 73 moves before Mr. Fischer resigned.
        Mr. Fischer recovered to win the championship, while Mr. Mednis finished well back. His best result was in the 1961-62 championship, when he finished in a tie for third.
        Edmar John Mednis was born in Riga, Latvia, on March 22, 1937. His parents fled the country in 1944, living in allied relocation camps in Germany for several years before settling in New York in 1950.
        Mr. Mednis earned a living as a chemical engineer until Mr. Fischer won the world championship in 1972. Then, capitalizing on the sudden popularity of chess and of Mr. Fischer, Mr. Mednis wrote a book called ''How to Beat Bobby Fischer'' (Dover Publications), in which he dissected Mr. Fischer's losses.
        The book was successful, and he wrote 21 more. He also became a columnist for Chess Life, the monthly magazine of the United States Chess Federation.
        In 1980, Mr. Mednis became a grandmaster, and in 2000, he was inducted into the United States Chess Hall of Fame.
        In addition to his wife of 37 years, he is survived by a daughter, Sari Eskildsen, a son, Mariss Mednis, and his twin sisters, Inita Rusis and Aiga Pupons.
        Although Mr. Mednis was perhaps best known for his defeat of Mr. Fischer and his book about Mr. Fischer's losses, that 1962 game was Mr. Mednis's only victory against Mr. Fischer. His career record against Mr. Fischer in tournament chess was one win, one draw and five losses.
      