
        Jack Barnaby, who coached the Harvard squash and tennis teams to a host of championships in a career with the Crimson as a player, coach and adviser that spanned seven decades, died Feb. 12 in Lexington, Mass. He was 92.
        Serving as head coach from 1937 to 1976, except for a brief period during World War II when Harvard curtailed sports, Barnaby brought the squash team 17 national titles and 16 Ivy League championships. He coached eight individual national champions. His tennis teams captured six conference titles.
        Barnaby coached women's squash from 1979 to 1982. His last team won the Howe Cup, denoting supremacy in the sport.
        Asked what squash system he coached, Barnaby said his method was ''to avoid all systems like the plague'' and ''adapt to the individual.''
        The writer George Plimpton, who played squash for Barnaby in the late 1940's, once remarked how ''he made it seem such fun to learn the intricacies of the game -- it became almost like chess.''
        Among the outstanding players Barnaby developed was Victor Niederhoffer, who had not played squash until entering Harvard, then won the 1964 national collegiate individual championship and vied with Sharif Khan for dominance in the North American game during the 1970's.
        Niederhoffer remembered Barnaby's attention to detail.
        ''Jack was like a piano teacher,'' he said, ''breaking the game down into exercises.''
        John Morton Barnaby was an outstanding high school tennis player in Hackensack, N.J., then played tennis and squash at Harvard, holding the No. 2 spot on its national championship team and going to the individual national semifinals as a senior.
        After graduating in 1932 with a degree in romance languages, he served as an assistant coach at Harvard for five years, then became head coach in squash and tennis. After his retirement from coaching in 1982, he was a special assistant for a decade in Harvard's racket sports. He wrote extensively on squash and tennis techniques.
        At the 1985 graduation ceremonies, Barnaby was presented with the Harvard Medal for ''extraordinary service'' to the university.
        He is survived by his wife, Charlotte; two sons, John, of San Francisco, and Charles, of Lexington; a daughter, Margaret, of Volcano, Hawaii; and a grandson.
      