
        John Thaw, the British television actor known to millions as the crusty, music-loving Chief Inspector Morse of Oxford, died at his home in Wiltshire, England, on Thursday. He was 60.
        The cause was throat cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Thaw's death occurred almost exactly a year after that of his character in the final episode of ''Inspector Morse'' broadcast in the United States.
        Mr. Thaw announced in June that he had cancer but that he intended to continue acting.
        His series, based on novels by Colin Dexter, began in 1987; its 33 two-hour episodes were broadcast over 15 years. It was shown in the United States on the PBS ''Mystery'' series, beginning in 1988.
        It was estimated that 13 million people watched the final episode in Britain. The series was also shown in many other countries.
        Idiosyncratic characterization rather than fast action or complex plotting was what fascinated regular viewers of ''Inspector Morse,'' and the inspector gave them plenty.
        He was said to have graduated from Oxford, but was bone lazy. He ignored forensic science and could not stand the sight of blood. He drank too much and drove a bright red Jaguar.
        In the final show there was deft interplay between Inspector Morse and his sidekick, Sergeant Lewis, as both men faced retirement.
        Lewis, still polite to his boss, nevertheless admitted that he had not yet given up hope of succeeding him.
        ''I'll be an inspector soon, if there's any justice in the world,'' Lewis said with a trace of bitterness.
        Morse replied: ''I'm not sure there is.''
        He sighed, then remarked, ''If there were, this would not be Morse's last case.''
        Both the public and the critics adored Mr. Thaw's Inspector Morse. Reviewing one episode in 1988, the New York Times critic John J. O'Connor wrote: ''Solid, not flashy. Mr. Thaw gives the inspector a perfect turn.''
        In February 2001, Ron Wertheimer wrote in The Times that the secret of Mr. Thaw's performance was in ''locating that kernel of believability in the man to make yet another far-fetched tale seem real.''
        Often that kernel would be an endearing flaw rather then a virtue. Closing one episode, Mr. Thaw's Inspector Morse soothed himself with classical music and alcohol.
        ''If anyone wants me,'' he told the world, ''they'll find me looking at fish -- through the bottom of a beer glass.''
        Born in Manchester, in northern England, on Jan. 3, 1942, Mr. Thaw was the son of a truck driver.
        After dropping out of school, he worked as a laborer and a baker until a teacher who had seen him perform in school plays urged him to audition for the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts. He was accepted at the age of 17.
        Early in his professional career, he often played a police officer, onstage or on television. His first major success was as a tough, foul-mouthed cop in ''The Sweeney,'' a popular British television series that started in 1975 and lasted for three years.
        The role of Inspector Morse brought fame and fortune to Mr. Thaw. In 1993 he was honored as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
        The Inspector Morse shows had  been ''an amazing success, beyond my wildest dreams,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times last year.
        Mr. Thaw is survived by his wife, the actress Sheila Hancock; two daughters, Abigail Thaw and Joanne Thaw; and a stepdaughter, Melanie Jane.
      