
        Matthew J. Culligan, an executive who held high positions in the radio, television, advertising and publishing businesses, including a stint as president of the Curtis Publishing Company, owners of The Saturday Evening Post, died Jan. 31 in New hall, Calif., his companion, Judith Valentine, said. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was complications from a stroke, Ms. Valentine said.
        Widely known as Joe, Mr. Culligan made his name as a media supersalesman who went through life with a black patch, the result of losing an eye to a grenade during the Battle of the Bulge.
        Selling came easily to Mr. Culligan, who worked at Hearst Magazines, Ziff-Davis Publications and the National Broadcasting Company before becoming president of Curtis in July 1962.
        In one of the 11 books he wrote during his lifetime, Mr. Culligan said he had an ''innate Irish facility for conversation.''
        Curtis Publishing was in bad shape when Mr. Culligan took over the company at the age of 44.
        Circulation at The Saturday Evening Post was at a record high, but advertising pages at the magazine and many other Curtis publications were down sharply and operating losses were high.
        Mr. Culligan pushed hard to increase advertising and cut costs. To accomplish the first goal, he went on a series of tours, calling on executives at the country's 200 leading corporations.
        He took one trip to the White House, where he persuaded President John F. Kennedy to provide a few ''amusing anecdotes'' that he might use as a gimmick in his advertising pitches.
        By the end of 1963, Mr. Culligan reported that Curtis had been profitable for six straight months.
        But lawsuits by the legendary college football coaches Paul (Bear) Bryant of Alabama and Wally Butts of Georgia cut into Curtis's profits and impugned the integrity of The Post, which in 1963 was engaging in what its editor called ''sophisticated muckraking.''
        Advertisers lost faith, and a series of internal feuds began. Mr. Culligan resigned in 1964.
        Mr. Culligan relived the entire story in ''The Curtis-Culligan Story,'' which was published in 1970.
        Mr. Culligan said he wrote the book on a recommendation from his doctor.
        After he left Curtis, Mr. Culligan held a variety of positions, including service as an official with the United States Information Agency and as president of the Mutual Broadcasting Company.
        A native New Yorker, Matthew Joseph Culligan was born June 25, 1918, and spent his boyhood in Washington Heights. After graduating from All Hallows Institute, he held a number of jobs, including lecturing at an exhibit at the 1939-40 World's Fair.
        During World War II he became a company commander in Europe. The exploding grenade during the Battle of the Bulge took him out of action.
        Mr. Culligan got into the magazine business after the war through a chance meeting with an acquaintance in a restaurant, who suggested Mr. Culligan call a friend at Good Housekeeping, a Hearst Publication. He was hired as an advertising salesman.
        He is survived by a son, Kerry Culligan of Pensacola, Fla.; three daughters, Susan Culligan of Richmondville, N.Y.; Carolyn Culligan of Newhall, Calif.; and Eileen Carney of Malibu, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      