
        Willie Thrower, whose only National Football League game made him the league's first African-American quarterback, died Wednesday at 71. He had a heart attack in his home in New Kensington, Pa., his niece, Shirley Thrower, said.
        Thrower was also the first black quarterback in the Big Ten and helped Michigan State win the national championship in 1952. The next year, he became a backup to George Blanda on the Chicago Bears.
        On Oct. 13, 1953, against the San Francisco 49ers at Soldier Field in Chicago, Thrower relieved Blanda. Thrower completed 3 of 8 passes for 27 yards, with an interception, as the Bears lost, 35-28.
        The Bears cut Thrower the next year, and he then played three years for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League and for a Toronto semipro team. He retired after separating a shoulder.
        ''I was like the Jackie Robinson of football,'' he once said.
        Fifteen years after Thrower's debut, pro football got its second black quarterback when Marlin Briscoe started for the Denver Broncos of the American Football League.
        Now the N.F.L. has many black quarterbacks, like Daunte Culpepper of the Minnesota Vikings, Donovan McNabb of the Philadelphia Eagles, Steve McNair of the Tennessee Titans, Kordell Stewart of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Charlie Batch of the Detroit Lions, Quincy Carter and Anthony Wright of the Dallas Cowboys, Aaron Brooks and Jeff Blake of the New Orleans Saints, Randall Cunningham of the Baltimore Ravens, Rodney Peete of the Oakland Raiders, Michael Vick of the Atlanta Falcons, Tony Banks of the Washington Redskins, Akili Smith of the Cincinnati Bengals, Ray Lucas of the Miami Dolphins and Shaun King of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
        Last February, Thrower was featured in a Black History Month special on ABC television.
        Afterward, he told The Valley News Dispatch of Tarentum, Pa., that even some of his neighbors did not believe his stories.
        ''A lot of people called me a liar,'' he said. ''Now they say: 'Gee whiz, here's a guy living in our hometown. We didn't know he was the first black quarterback.' Just like they didn't know, the rest of the country didn't know.''
        Willie Lawrence Thrower was born March 22, 1930, in New Kensington, 21 miles east of Pittsburgh.
        After football, he became a social worker in New Kensington and New York. He returned to New Kensington in 1969 and bought two taverns there.
        His survivors include his wife, Mary; three sons, Willie J., Jason and Melvin; and a brother, Jesse, all of New Kensington.
        ''That's what everyone is going to remember him by, football,'' his wife said. ''He always went by Willie the Pro.''
      