
        Harvey Matusow, a paid informer who named more than 200 people as Communists or Communist sympathizers in the early 1950's, only to recant and say he lied in almost every instance, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Claremont, N.H. He was 75.
        Nancy Graton, a friend, said the cause was complications of injuries suffered in an automobile crash on Jan. 2.
        Mr. Matusow, who served 44 months of a five-year sentence for perjury in a federal penitentiary, created a sensation in 1955 when he revealed his many lies in his book ''False Witness'' (Cameron & Kahn). Some hailed it for exposing what they regarded as questionable tactics by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and other zealous anti-Communists.
        ''At long last, the shining truth about the false accusers, the half-truth artists, the professional fabricators, the prevaricators for pay is beginning to break up through the dark and ugly clouds of doubt they have so evilly blown up,'' said Senator Margaret Chase Smith of Maine, a McCarthy target.
        But others remained convinced that Mr. Matusow had been telling the truth before his recantation. Attorney General Herbert Brownell called his reversal ''part of a concerted drive to discredit government witnesses.''
        Mr. Matusow began in 1950 by giving the Federal Bureau of Investigation information he had obtained through his membership in the Communist Party. He became an aide to Senator McCarthy, chairman of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
        He also testified before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, the Subversive Activities Control Board, the Ohio Un-American Affairs Commission and the Industrial Commission of Texas, among other bodies. In addition, he was a witness in court cases against those accused of being Communists.
        Among those he accused of Communist sympathies were the State Department, CBS, the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the Young Women's Christian Association and the United Nations. He said there were 500 Communist teachers in the New York City school system, for which he was a paid consultant. His testimony resulted in the folk singer Pete Seeger's being cited for contempt of Congress.
        Mr. Matusow's often wildly exaggerated approach was suggested by his assertion that The New York Times had 126 Communists on the staff that produced its Sunday sections; at a time that staff had 100 people. He later signed an affidavit disavowing his accusation against The Times.
        In ''The Great Fear'' (Simon & Schuster, 1978), David Cante argued that the greatest failing of Mr. Matusow and other paid witnesses was what might kindly be called imprecision.
        ''On a nod from prosecutors, they sold hunches or guesses as inside knowledge, supporting their claims with bogus reports of conversations and encounters,'' Mr. Cante wrote.
        Harvey Marshall Matusow was born on Oct. 3, 1926, in the Bronx. His father owned a cigar store. He dropped out of high school to join the Army. He found what he believed to be the grave of his brother, his only sibling, in Germany, an event he said deeply traumatized him.
        After the war, hungry for the camaraderie of the Army, he joined American Youth for Democracy, a leftist organization, in 1946. He described his participation as ''feverish.'' He said he felt closest to the Communists in the group and joined the Communist Party in 1947.
        But he soon came to dislike what he called the absolutist attitudes of party leaders. In 1950, he picked up the phone to call the F.B.I. When someone answered, he felt a cold chill and hung up, he wrote.
        ''I must have looked like a character in a Hollywood melodrama as I lit a cigarette, put it out, lit another one, paced the floor, then got back to the phone,'' he wrote. ''Like a man who commits suicide, once you leap from that building, it's too late to turn back. That's the way I felt about contacting the F.B.I.''
        He was assigned to attend party meetings as an informer for $70 a month. He was soon exposed and expelled. He joined the Air Force and wrote an angry letter to the House Committee on Un-American Activities denouncing his own presence, as a former Communist, in the armed forces.
        He started testifying before the committee as an ex-Communist expert. After he left the Air Force, his career as an expert anti-Communist began in earnest. Among other things, he worked for Counterattack, a newsletter that blacklisted Communists, wrote an article for the American Legion Magazine titled ''Reds in Khaki'' and tried to smear political candidates who opposed Senator McCarthy in the elections of 1952.
        Mr. Matusow married one of the principal contributors to Senator McCarthy's anti-Communist crusade, Arvilla Peterson Bentley.
        She was one of around a dozen wives. He is survived by the former Irene Gibson, whom he married last fall, and his daughter, Lisa Susan, Ms. Graton said.
        Mr. Matusow eventually recanted most of his name dropping. His perjury conviction resulted from testifying, falsely, a court found, that Roy M. Cohn, as assistant attorney general, had coached him to lie.
        Mr. Matusow said he had lived a ''lifelong three-ring circus.'' He called himself Job because of his many travails; he flirted with many religions and lived in communes.
        He had a devilish side: he wrote a book on how to sabotage computer systems. But he also tried to help people, like impoverished Indians to whom he persuaded Hell's Angels to deliver food.
        Above all, acquaintances said, he was driven by a craving for attention. Brian Kahn, the son of Albert E. Kahn, the editor who persuaded him to write his book about being a professional witness, recalled visiting his apartment years ago and seeing deep piles of newspaper clippings about him.
        ''Show-off is not enough of a word,'' Mr. Kahn said.
        Murray Kempton, the columnist, wrote: ''His every ism has been an affectation born of a morbid love of admiration and the vision of what everyone would say as he walked his garish way.''
        Correction:  February 5, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday of Harvey Matusow, a paid F.B.I. informer who recanted his accusations of Communist associations in the 1950's, misspelled the surname of the author of ''The Great Fear,'' who wrote that such paid witnesses sold hunches as inside knowledge. He was David Caute, not Cante.
      