
        Sydney De Haan, a British hotel owner whose idea for attracting out-of-season guests led him to create one of the first tour companies catering to retirees, died on Feb. 16 in Folkestone, Kent. He was 83.
        His company, Saga Holidays, which has offered low-cost, all-inclusive packages since its founding in 1951, is generally credited with discovering the spending power of older British travelers, even those on a tight budget.
        Mr. De Haan, born on Feb. 6, 1919, in London, was one of 11 children. He began his career in the hospitality business somewhat inadvertently. While serving in the Royal Army Medical Corps, his unit was overrun by German troops at Dunkirk. Mr. De Haan, who was cooking lunch at the time of his capture, often joked that it was the only time that the advancing enemy found a hot meal waiting for them.
        He was in a German prisoner-of-war camp for three years before he was released in 1943 to escort sick prisoners back to England.
        After the war, Mr. De Haan and his wife bought the 12-room Rhodesia Hotel in Folkestone, a working-class seaside resort on the southeast coast next to the Strait of Dover. Noticing that elderly vacationers remained long after younger families had returned home, Mr. De Haan began offering retirees vacation packages, including bus transportation, meals and accommodations, all for the low out-of-season price of a little more than six pounds.
        Selling his packages door to door in nearby towns in Yorkshire, he  soon had enough business to buy, and fill, a second hotel. He then began scheduling tours to other destinations, like university campuses, where vacationers could bunk in unused dorm rooms during the summer months.
        As his business expanded, Mr. De Haan emphasized courteous, personalized service and a roster of activities that would keep his customers occupied and foster companionship.
        He kept his prices low; any price increases corresponded to increases in the state pension.
        By the early 1970's, Mr. De Haan began offering overseas tours. Approached by Romania's minister of tourism about a glut of out-of-season hotel rooms, Mr. De Haan made that country his first foreign destination. Packages to Yugoslavia soon followed.
        Today, Saga operates tours to 65 countries, many booked by Saga International, the office the company established in Boston in 1981.
        Mr. De Haan's son Roger had diversified the company since his father's retirement in 1984. Saga Group, as it is now known, also offers a range of financial products, including health insurance for pets.
        Mr. De Haan is survived by Roger and two other sons, David and Peter.  His wife, Margery, died in 1994.
        Jokes came with Mr. De Haan's success. British humorists insisted that Saga was an acronym for, among other things, ''Send a Granny  Away.''
        Mr. De Haan laughed all the way to the bank. By the 1980's, Saga was British Rail's largest passenger customer. It now has close to 2,000 employees. Saga magazine, which was  started as a newsletter in 1966, is now Britain's second most popular magazine, after Reader's Digest, with a paid circulation of more than 1.2 million. The company even owns a cruise ship.
      