
        Samuel Terrien, a leading biblical scholar who was an authority on the Book of Job, died on Feb. 3 near his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 91.
        He became ill at the end of December, days after sending off the corrected galley proofs of his last book, ''The Strophic Structure of the Psalms with Commentary.''
        A professor at Union Theological Seminary in New York for 35 years, Dr. Terrien focused as a scholar on wisdom literature, the term for Jewish philosophical writing of the pre-Christian era. It includes the Old Testament books of Job, Ecclesiastes and Proverbs, Ecclesiasticus and the book called the Wisdom of Solomon from the early centuries of Judaism. One of Dr. Terrien's great contributions was to show the influence of this literature on the biblical books of the prophets, said Dr. James A. Sanders, president of the Ancient Biblical Manuscript Center in Claremont, Calif.
        In his studies, Dr. Terrien used ancient languages, including Hebrew, Assyro-Babylonian, Greek, Latin, Syriac and Aramaic. He wrote 10 books and many scholarly articles.
        In ''Job, the Poet of Existence,'' published in 1957, Dr. Terrien engaged the existentialist thought of Camus and Sartre, seeking to show that ''God was a real player in the drama,'' said Dr. Walter Brueggemann, a professor at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga.
        Samuel Lucien Terrien was born to a Huguenot family on March 27, 1911, in Saumur, in the Loire Valley of France. He began studying Greek and Latin in early grade school. When he was 12, a teacher handed him a book about Aramaic to study in the summer. After receiving an undergraduate degree from the Sorbonne, he came to the United States and earned a doctorate of theology from Union Theological Seminary in 1941. He was ordained a Presbyterian minister in 1943.
        He stayed on as a professor and joined a faculty community of renowned thinkers, including Paul Tillich and Reinhold Niebuhr, recalled his daughter, Beatrice Terrien-Somerville, an associate dean at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Columbia University.
        Dr. Terrien is also survived by his wife, the former Sara Frantz; two other daughters, Cecile Terrien Lampton of Sausalito, Calif., and Alys Terrien-Queen of West Newton; a son, George Terrien of Portland, Me.; and six grandchildren.
      