
        Robert Strausz-Hupé, a former American ambassador to Turkey, NATO, Sweden, Belgium and Sri Lanka, founder of the University of Pennsylvania's Foreign Policy Research Institute and a conservative writer on foreign affairs, died Feb. 24 at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. He was 98.
        Dr. Strausz-Hupé, who during the cold war believed that by standing up to the Soviet Union a united West could expose it as ''a clumsy and backward despotism,'' served as a foreign policy adviser to Senator Barry Goldwater during his 1964 run for the presidency as well as to Richard Nixon during his successful 1968 campaign.
        In 1969 President Nixon had hoped to appoint him ambassador to Morocco but his nomination was blocked by Senator J. William Fulbright, the Arkansas Democrat who was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and who called Dr. Strausz-Hupé ''the very epitome of a hard-line, no compromise'' approach to Communism.
        But the following year he was confirmed as ambassador to Ceylon, now known as Sri Lanka, and to the Maldives. From 1972 to 1974 he served as ambassador to Belgium, then as ambassador to Sweden from 1974 to 1976, when he became ambassador to NATO. In 1981 he became  ambassador to Turkey, serving until his retirement in 1989.
        After joining the University of Pennsylvania's political science department in 1940, Dr. Strausz-Hupé became an associate professor in 1946. In 1955 he founded the Foreign Policy Research Institute, which broke away from the University in 1970, after he had begun his diplomatic career.
        Dr. Strausz-Hupé published many books on foreign policy of which the best known were probably ''Geopolitics: The Struggle For Space And Power'' (1942)), ''The Balance of Tomorrow: Power And Foreign Policy In The United States''(1945) and ''Protracted Conflict'' (1959).
        His strategy for winning the cold war was for the United States to stand up to the Soviet Union while Europe unified and formed an Atlantic partnership that would in time draw Eastern Europe away from Moscow.
        Born March 25, 1903, in Vienna, Dr. Strausz-Hupé came to the United States when he was 20, working first on Wall Street and then for Current History Magazine before joining the University of Pennsylvania.
        His first wife died in 1976. He is survived by his second wife, Mayrose Strausz-Hupé; a stepson from his first marriage, Joe Walker of Unionville, Pa.; and three stepchildren from his second marriage, Ingrid Nugara and Cynthia Knight, both of Newtown Square, and Ricky Nugara of Melbourne, Australia.
      