
        Patterson Ewen, a Canadian artist who combined painting and sculpture to create cosmological images, died on Feb. 17 at his home in London, Ontario. He was 76.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Jack Shainman, the Manhattan dealer who presented Mr. Ewan's last New York show, in 2000.
        Mr. Ewen's work of the 1970's and 80's, for which he was best known, consisted of large plywood panels gouged with hand tools and electric routers then worked over with pigment to produce images that suggested topographic relief maps of a storm-swept natural world or a star-filled outer space. He often gave his pieces a whimsical, personal touch by attaching material to the wood's surface, including chains, fencing wire, strips of aluminum and coconut fiber.
        Mr. Ewen attended McGill University, where he studied mathematics and meteorology, subjects in which he maintained a lifelong interest. In the early 1940's he enrolled in the School of Art and Design at the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts. His early representational landscapes, portraits and still lifes gradually gave way to hard-edged abstraction.
        In 1971 his art changed decisively.  He applied pieces of felt to his painting surfaces, a move that opened various formal options and loosened up his style. Calligraphic drawings of clouds and storms followed. He began cutting into plywood panels with the intention of making enormous woodcut prints, but he soon decided that with the addition of paint, applied hardware-store items and offbeat materials like tar and marble chips the panels could stand on their own.
        This work made his reputation in Canada and elsewhere. He showed often, was regularly included in surveys of contemporary Canadian art and was collected by Canadian museums. He was also the subject of several retrospective exhibitions, the largest of them at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 1996.
        In 1982 he represented his country at the Venice Biennale. He had four solo exhibitions in New York City since 1956, the most recent at Jack Shainman Gallery in Chelsea in 2000. He taught at the University of Western Ontario until 1988 and was professor emeritus at the time of his death.
        His first marriage, to the artist Françoise Sullivan, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Mary Handford; by his sons from his first marriage, Vincent, Jean-Christophe and Francis, both of Montreal, and Geoffrey, of Toronto; and by two grandchildren.
      