
        Ellis Jones, an outstanding guard and linebacker for the University of Tulsa during the World War II years and a National Football League player despite having lost an arm in a childhood accident, died Sunday at a hospital in Greeley, Colo. He was 80.
        He broke his neck in a fall at his home in Sterling, Colo., on Feb. 12, his family said.
        With thousands of athletes off to military service, World War II-era teams in all sports depended on men with 4-F deferments. Many college football squads also used athletes who were enrolled on their campuses in Navy training programs.
        Pete Gray played center field for the 1945 St. Louis Browns though he had lost an arm while a youngster. On the football field, Tulsa featured a lineman with much the same story. He may have been overshadowed by the news coverage Gray received -- baseball was indisputably the No. 1 sport in America then -- but Ellis Jones was a formidable athlete.
        Jones played offense and defense for three Tulsa teams that went to major bowl games, he played with the 1944 College All-Stars against the defending N.F.L. champions, the Chicago Bears, and he was named an all-American in 1944 by Look magazine. After playing with Tulsa from 1942 to 1944, he played one season with the N.F.L.'s Boston Yanks.
        ''He was one of the best football players that I ever saw,'' said his former Tulsa teammate Glenn Dobbs, an all-American tailback and member of the College Football Hall of Fame. ''He was intelligent, tough, strong, fast, and nobody ever thought about him just having one arm after they saw him do something one time.''
        Jones was 11 years old when he fell out of a tree near his Abilene, Tex., home and suffered a compound fracture of his right arm. When gangrene set in, the arm was amputated eight inches below the shoulder.
        At 6 feet and 190 pounds, he yielded nothing on the football field.
        ''My theory was you had to run over me, or I tried to shoot through you,'' he once said. ''I missed some tackles. Everybody does. I always felt playing in the center of the line, most of the time they're having to run over you. Out in the open, I got out in front and made you run over me.''
        The wartime Tulsa teams, coached by Henry Frnka, were among the strongest in the nation. The 1942 squad went 10-0 in the regular season, was ranked No. 4 in the Associated Press poll and went to the Sugar Bowl, losing to Tennessee. The 1943 team also appeared in the Sugar Bowl, losing to Georgia Tech, and the '44 Tulsa team beat Georgia Tech in the Orange Bowl.
        Tulsa had no Navy training programs on its campus, so its football team depended solely on civilian athletes. The 1943 team's 40-man roster had 24 players who were 4-F and 9 others who were 17 or 18 years old. Time magazine, in a December profile of the team, which was 6-0-1 awaiting a Sugar Bowl appearance, called it ''Frnka's 4-F's.''
        After his football career ended, Jones was a broker in the sale of oil and natural gas leases.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; a son, Donald, of Sterling; two daughters, Marcia Burnham, of Fort Collins, Colo., and Kathy Fischer, of Treynor, Iowa; a brother, Dr. Bill Jones, of Trophy City, Tex.; and six grandchildren.
        ''I played football before I got hurt,'' Jones said of the accident that cost him his right arm. ''It never occurred to me that I couldn't keep playing. I guess I was too dumb to think I could not do it.''
      