
        Dr. J. Desmond Clark, an authority on ancient Africa and a leader of archaeological expeditions that helped outline the history of the continent as well as the history of humans, died on Feb. 14 in Oakland, Calif. He was 85 and retired from a  professorship at the University of California at Berkeley.
        In 1981, excavating in the Middle Awash River Valley of Ethiopia, Dr. Clark and his team unearthed four-million-year-old skull and femur fragments of a two-legged ape-man with a small brain.
        That discovery immediately gained international attention, because it involved the oldest ancestor of man then known and helped show that bipedalism had evolved independently of brain size. Many experts had previously believed that intelligence had developed before bipedalism, that in fact it was an increase in brain size that had driven the development of tools and, so that the arms were free to make and use them, a need to walk on two legs.
        In 1996, Dr. Clark and his team discovered an early large-mammal butchery in Ethiopia. The find helped demonstrate that the earliest stone tools had been used to get meat and marrow from large mammals, indicating a dietary shift that might have encouraged human travels to new habitats, in search of game.
        ''Before the discovery, very little was known about what the earliest stone tools were actually used for,'' said Dr. Tim White, a paleontologist at Berkeley, who worked with Dr. Clark on excavations.
        Dr. Clark was one of the first archaeologists to involve Africans in excavations in their homeland. As early as the 1940's, he noted that Ethiopians played only minor roles in archaeological research, so he expanded his cadre and taught them modern research methods and excavation skills. His commitment to the continent was so great that in World War II he joined the Ethiopian Army,  splitting his time between archaeology and war.
        ''Before him,'' Dr. White said, ''most of the research was done by European colonialists. But he brought people out of African countries, trained them through the Ph.D. level and instilled in them the pride and all the things needed to become the first generation of scholars in Ethiopia.''
        In 1991, Dr. Clark led a team that helped reopen China's borders to foreign archaeologists for the first time in 40 years, obtaining permission to  excavate in the Nihewan Basin near Beijing. He worked there with the famed Chinese archaeologist Jia Lanpo, and helped train Chinese students in modern archaeology.
        ''His own work and his training of people in different countries were both invaluable and formative to modern prehistoric archaeology,'' said Dr. F. Clark Howell, a professor of anthropology at Berkeley. ''Without him, the field would never have become what it is today.''
        John Desmond Clark was born in London and received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in archaeology from Cambridge. In 1938, he traveled to Northern Rhodesia, now Zambia, and became curator of the David Livingstone Memorial Museum. He soon became familiar with the small number of archaeologists in Africa and brought them together when he helped start the annual Pan-African Congress on Prehistory, which continues to this day.
        He left Northern Rhodesia for Berkeley in 1961 and retired in 1986, but continued in research until his death. He was the author of some 20 books and 300 journal articles.
        Dr. Clark is survived by his wife of 64 years, Betty Baume Clark, with whom he lived in Oakland; his sister, Moira Coulson of England; a son, John, of England; a daughter, Elizabeth Winterbottom of Australia; and five grandchildren.
      