
        Leo Ornstein, a Russian-born composer and pianist who in the early 20th century was a leading figure of the American avant-garde, died on Feb. 24 in Green Bay, Wis. He was either 108 or 109.
        Viewed as a radical composer, Mr. Ornstein was ranked with Stravinsky and Schoenberg in the 1920's and with Varèse and Antheil in the 1940's, first as an innovator and ultimately as a maverick. His early works made use of tone clusters, polyrhythms and other new techniques before they were widely known.
        Audiences, predictably, were divided between horror and adulation. In 1918 the critic James Huneker called him ''the only true-blue, genuine Futurist composer alive.'' At the same time, The London Observer described the ''insufferable hideousness'' of his ''so-called music.''
        Mr. Ornstein first came to fame as a piano virtuoso, performing his own works along with more conventional fare to packed houses. In 1918 when he was in his 20's, The New York Times described an audience for a matinee at Aeolian Hall clinging ''to walls, to organ pipes, pedal-base, stairs or any niche offering a view.'' The same year a biography was published, ''Leo Ornstein: The Man, His Ideas, His Work'' by Frederick H. Martens. It described the pianist, among other things, as ''an evil musical genius, wandering in a weird No-Man's Land haunted with tortuous sound.''
        But in 1933 Mr. Ornstein, who disliked performing, retired from the stage, and after the St. Louis Symphony gave the world premiere of his ''Nocturne and Dance of Fate'' in 1937 he vanished into near-obscurity. ''What of Leo Ornstein, bright particular star of American composition a quarter of a century ago?'' wrote Olin Downes in The New York Times in 1945. ''We recently asked three of the composers of the rising generation about him. Two of them did not know his name. Twenty-five years ago his name was on the lips of every informed concertgoer.''
        Mr. Ornstein, evidently unperturbed, kept on composing. In the 1970's there was a revival of interest in his work, and he was living in a mobile home in Texas, happily composing.
        His final work, the Eighth Piano Sonata, was composed in 1990, when he was in his late 90's.
        Leo Ornstein was born in December of either 1892 or 1893, said his son, Severo. The son of a cantor, he began studying piano at 3, and before he was 10 he had entered the conservatory of St. Petersburg, where he studied with Glazunov.
        In 1907 his family fled the growing anti-Semitism in pre-revolutionary Russia and settled in New York, where he studied at the Institute for Musical Arts (now the Juilliard School) and made his debut in 1911.
        On Dec. 11, 1918, he married Pauline C. Mallet-Prevost, who also studied at the institute. The unusual union between an immigrant from the Lower East Side and a Park Avenue debutante lasted for 67 years, until her death in 1985.
        In 1935 after his retirement from the stage, the Ornsteins founded the Ornstein School of Music in Philadelphia, which they ran successfully until it was sold in 1958.
        In addition to his son, of Woodside, Calif., he is survived by his daughter, Edith Valentine, of De Pere, Wis., five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        On March 26 Marc-André Hamelin, who has recorded Mr. Ornstein's work, will perform several Ornstein pieces at the Miller Theater. The event has been designated a memorial to the composer.
        ''Fame never had much meaning or appeal to me,'' Mr. Ornstein told Harold C. Schonberg of The Times in 1976. ''It was not worth it. If my music has any value, it will be picked up and played. If it has no value, it deserves its neglect.''
        Correction:  March 7, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the composer and pianist Leo Ornstein yesterday misstated the name of the school where he studied and made his musical debut. It was the Institute of Musical Art (now the Juilliard School), not the Institute for Musical Arts.
      