
        The Rev. Donald G. Lothrop, the radical minister of what was once one of Boston's most prominent Protestant churches, who defied politicians who called him a Communist -- mistakenly, he emphasized -- by warmly welcoming Communists to his congregation, died on Feb. 20 in Belfast, Me. He was 96.
        His son, John, said he died at a nursing home where he had been living in recent months.
        Mr. Lothrop was the second minister of the Community Church of Boston, a Unitarian-Universalist congregation, from 1936 to 1975. In his early years there, as many as 3,000 people would crowd into Sunday services, many drawn by the church's spirited social gospel and speakers who included leaders of African liberation movements.
        Today's members, now numbering in the dozens, joke that the church's ''high holy days'' are the annual commemorations of W. E. B. Dubois, Sacco and Vanzetti, and the Rosenbergs. This leftist image owed much to Mr. Lothrop, a small man whose booming oratory made him seem large.
        Mr. Lothrop preached the evils of Franco, and was punched in the mouth by a Cuban enraged at his inviting a supporter of Fidel Castro to speak. He angered his pacifist congregants by supporting the United States entry into World War II, but was one of the earliest clergymen to oppose the Vietnam War.
        Most famously, he readily pleaded  guilty in the 1950's to charges that he had given ''aid and comfort'' to Communists.
        ''I have given aid and comfort to all kinds of people, black and white, Jew and gentile, Catholic and Protestant, Mohammedan and Buddhist, rich and poor, capitalist and Communist, democrat and anarchist,'' Mr. Lothrop testified before a committee of the Massachusetts Legislature in 1958.
        ''My exemplar is one, Jesus of Nazareth, who feared not to associate with and minister to prostitutes, thieves and tax gatherers,'' he continued. ''He believed in virtue by association, not guilt by association.''
        Donald Guy Lothrop was born in Everett, Mass., on July 3, 1905. He was a 10th-generation descendant of John Lothrop, who spent two years in an English prison as a heretic before going to Barnstable, Mass., to found the oldest organized church in the United States.
        In another pamphlet, published in 1953, Donald Lothrop referred to John and other pilgrims who came to America for religious freedom as ''a new order of men who were on fire with God.''
        His own ideas were more immediately shaped by his father, a machinist who became a florist and won fame for developing double snapdragons. His father delighted in inviting all manner of interesting people home for dinner -- from symphony violinists to the only black family in town to a friendly drunk he met on the Boston subway.
        But the family was so poor that some nights they ate only boiled carrots. The boy became known as an outspoken New Dealer in the solidly Republican town of Lexington, Mass.
        He attended local schools and graduated from Tufts University, where the dean of the school of religion was the Rev. Clarence R. Skinner, founder of the Community Church. He stayed at Tufts to earn a degree in sacred theology from its Crane Theological School.
        He had jobs that included dishwashing, jerking sodas and wielding a pick and shovel. He picked up pocket change by breeding terriers and raising rabbits.
        After graduation, he joined the Merchant Marine, and later served in the Marine Reserves. He then served in Unitarian-Universalist churches in Framingham, Mass.; Des Moines; and Wakefield, Mass.,  before accepting a call to the Community Church, then the largest Protestant church in the Boston area.
        He expanded on Mr. Skinner's program of bringing controversial speakers to the church, which held services in various public halls. Mr. Lothrop would act as referee, as on the occasion he invited the candidates for governor, Leverett Saltonstall and James M. Curley.
        As the crowd joined in and the fur flew oratorically, Mr. Lothrop tried in vain to restore order, The New York Times reported in 1938.
        ''There are people here this morning who are not educated to the Community Church standards of courtesy and impartiality,'' Mr. Lothrop said.
        He strove to give opposing sides of issues a turn to speak, including at least one abortion opponent. He ran for the Massachusetts Legislature as a Republican in the late 1940's, and once voted for a Republican presidential candidate, though his family is unsure which one. Only gradually did he shed his prejudice against gays, his daughter Karla Lothrop Wight said.
        But the church was viewed as a leftist haven, and some members were sure federal agents were following them home from services in the 1950's, said the current minister, the Rev. David Carl Olson.
        Mr. Lothrop was repeatedly mentioned as a Communist, but no proof was ever given publicly and he always denied it.
        In 1953, Herbert A. Philbrick, a witness before the House Un-American Activities Committee, said Mr. Lothrop was ''operating under Communist Party discipline.'' The minister replied by noting that he was not even charged with being a Communist, and suggested that Mr. Philbrick's language represented ''the weasel trick of a coward.''
        Mr. Lothrop also complained that the committee gave him no chance to reply to the secret testimony before releasing it to reporters. He derided what he called ''trial through newspapers.''
        In 1958, a commission of the State Legislature made similar accusations against him, saying Mr. Lothrop gave aid and comfort to Communists and calling the Community Church ''the greatest center of Communist activities in Boston.''
        In a speech to a different legislative committee, Mr. Lothrop denied the accusations, while proudly pointing out that his church was the first religious body to go on record as seeking a fair trial for Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti, the anarchists convicted of murder in Boston in 1927.
        The accusations of disloyalty took a toll on his family. His son, John, recalled after the legislative commission's accusations, his mother lost a job helping abandoned children; some children refused to play with him; and a bank officer declined a loan for the motor scooter his father wanted to give him.
        Karla, his sister, dealt with incorrect assumptions that she was named for Karl Marx, and a boyfriend's athletic coach referred to her as ''your Commie girlfriend.''
        None of this inhibited Mr. Lothrop. ''The more they called this guy up, the more he would lambaste them, and give them more reasons to call him back,'' Mr. Olson said.
        Helena, Mr. Lothrop's wife, died in 1993 after 61 years of marriage. In addition to his son, John, also of Belfast, and his daughter, Karla, of Center Conway, N.H., and Shelton, Wash., he is survived by his sister, Jeanne Wilensky of Mokelumne, Calif.; three granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.
      