
        Moe Foner, who played a major role in building New York City's largest union of health care workers and later was the labor movement's unofficial cultural impresario, staging art shows, plays and concerts, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86.
        Mr. Foner was the longtime executive secretary of 1199/S.E.I.U., New York's Health and Human Service Union.
        As the right-hand man to the union's president, Mr. Foner was an important strategist in 1199's landmark victories four decades ago, when it called two long strikes that won union recognition and higher wages for thousands of low-paid hospital workers.
        Those strikes made New York City's hospital workers the first employees in private, nonprofit hospitals in the nation to unionize. They also paved the way for state and federal legislation that guaranteed private hospital workers the right to unionize.
        Mr. Foner played a behind-the-scenes role in the strikes, enlisting the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1199's cause. Dr. King, who described 1199 as his ''favorite union,'' called the fight to raise wages for the $30-a-week workers a civil rights struggle.
        Mr. Foner was the founder of Bread and Roses, a cultural program that 1199 created to add a dimension to workers' lives beyond making hospital beds and earning a paycheck.
        At Bread and Roses, Mr. Foner put together a musical about the lives of hospital workers, had Woody Guthrie and Pete Seeger sing to workers' children and installed the only art gallery at a union headquarters. He enlisted well-known artists including Ralph Fasanella, Sue Coe, Jacob Lawrence and Milton Glaser to contribute to exhibitions, some of which toured France, Italy and Sweden.
        ''I operated under the theory that a good union doesn't have to be dull,'' Mr. Foner said in an interview in 2000. Sometimes called the Sol Hurok of labor, Mr. Foner was widely viewed as the national leader in bringing cultural life to union members.
        He arranged for Shari Lewis, then just 13, to put on a ventriloquism performance for union members, and in 1954, he hired Ossie Davis, then a postal worker, to put on annual shows about civil rights, often with the help of rising stars like Sidney Poitier and Ruby Dee.
        ''Moe in a sense was a one-man cultural wave,'' Mr. Davis said. ''He had a vision.''
        Mr. Foner was one of four prominent brothers who constituted one of the nation's most famous families on the left. His brothers Jack and Philip were leading historians and his brother Henry was president of the furriers' union.
        In 1942, Mr. Foner, then a clerk at City College, and his brother Philip, who taught there, were fired as the result of an investigation by the State Legislature's Rabb-Coudert Committee, which sought to purge Communists from government. His brother Jack, who also taught there, resigned.
        A boarder who once lived in the Foner household acted as an informant to the committee.
        In 1980, a state legislative committee apologized to the Foners and 78 others who were dismissed, stating that it was wrong to punish them for their beliefs.
        As a young man, Mr. Foner joined the Communist Party, having sympathized with the left's fight against Franco during the Spanish Civil War. He said he left the party in the 1950's as he learned about the horrors under Stalin.
        ''We looked to the Soviet Union as the beacon of hope,'' he said in 1991. ''But I began to see the problems a long, long time ago.''
        Mr. Foner continued to dedicate his life to helping the service-sector proletariat, bringing a zesty cultural feast to union members, while also working as strategist, lobbyist and slogan writer to improve wages and benefits for New York's hospital workers.
        ''The conditions in the hospitals were terrible, the workers were mainly black and Latin, and nobody had ever tried to organize them before,'' he said in 1991.
        A close associate of Leon Davis, 1199's dour founder and president, Mr. Foner was the union's affable public relations expert, always quick with banter and a joke. Recognizing the importance of getting the union's message across, he was forever buttonholing legislators and editorial writers.
        Dennis Rivera, president of 1199, a division of the Service Employees International Union, said Mr. Foner was an important 1199 leader who improved the lives of thousands of union members. ''He helped build coalitions with intellectuals, political leaders, civil rights leaders and artists,'' Mr. Rivera said.
        Morris Foner, known from his boyhood as Moe, was born on Aug. 3, 1915, in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the son of Abraham and Mary Foner. His father was a seltzer man who lugged large bottles up to tenement apartments, and his mother was a housewife. He went to Eastern District High School and Brooklyn College, graduating in 1936.
        After working briefly for an apparel workers' union, he took a job at the City College registrar's office, from which he was fired for his leftist beliefs. Afterward, he and his three brothers sought to make ends meet by forming a jazz band, Suspended Swing, which often played in the Catskills.
        ''They used to say the Foner brothers had the highest intellectual quotient and the lowest musical quotient,'' said Mr. Foner, who played saxophone.
        Drafted during World War II, he was assigned to the quartermaster's corps at Fort Jay on Governors Island.
        In December 1941, he married Anne Berman, who survives him, along with their daughters, Nancy Foner and Peggy Foner, both of Manhattan; a granddaughter; and his brother Henry.
        In 1945, he became education director of Department Store Local 1250, which represented workers at Stern's and at many other stores that have since closed, including Namm's, Oppenheim's, Hearn's and Norton's. He taught economics classes and ran the union's cultural activities, overseeing creation of a musical about department store workers, called ''Thursdays 'Til Nine.''
        In 1951, he became the social and cultural director of District 65 of the Distributive Workers. Most Saturday nights he arranged acts for the union's nightclub, enlisting, among others, Pete Seeger, Harry Belafonte, Jack Gilford and the comedian Sam Levinson, then a high school teacher.
        When District 65 sought to force out Communists, Mr. Foner joined 1199, which was headed by Leon Davis, someone he knew from their Jewish center in Queens. ''It was one of those leftist shuls that emphasized Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglass,'' he said.
        Mr. Foner became 1199's educational and cultural director and editor of its newspaper. At the time, 1199 was a modest, quiet 5,000-member union, made up mostly of white pharmacists.
        The union and Mr. Foner's life changed dramatically when 1199 set out in 1958 to organize bedpan emptiers, dietary aides and laundry room workers in New York City's hospitals.
        In 1959, a 46-day strike against Mount Sinai, Montefiore and five other large hospitals gained tentative union recognition for the workers.
        ''It was a sad thing to see this bedraggled army stay out there,'' Mr. Foner said.
        Responsible for rallying public support, he lined up backing from civil rights leaders like Dr. King, Bayard Rustin, A. Philip Randolph and many elected officials and editorial writers.
        In 1962, in a 56-day walkout against Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn, Mr. Foner played a crucial role in negotiating with the office of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. He helped persuade Mr. Rockefeller, who was concerned that the strike was worsening racial tensions, to introduce legislation guaranteeing workers at nonprofit hospitals the right to unionize.
        As a result of these legislative changes and 1199's vigorous organizing, the union's membership has soared to more than 210,000.
        As the union grew, Mr. Foner concentrated increasingly on cultural activities, although in the late 1960's, he became a key leader in rallying union opposition against the Vietnam War. For that, President Richard M. Nixon placed him on his enemies list.
        In 1972, 1199 became the first union to install a permanent art gallery in his headquarters, which are on West 43rd Street. In 1978, Mr. Foner formally established Bread and Roses, helped by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, which was seeking to finance a model union cultural program.
        In 1982, after Leon Davis died, Mr. Foner was forced out as 1199's executive secretary in a power struggle, but he continued running Bread and Roses.
        Bread and Roses had singers and theater troupes perform in hospitals during workers' lunch hours. Mr. Foner oversaw creation of a musical, ''Take Care,'' about the travails of hospital workers. The musical toured New York's hospitals and was seen by 35,000 workers. Joseph Papp, founder of the New York City Shakespeare Festival, once called Mr. Foner ''the Joseph Papp of the labor movement.''
        Most recently, Mr. Foner conceived a popular series of posters, called ''Women of Hope,'' that depict famous African-American, Hispanic, Asian-American and American Indian women, including Maya Angelou and Dolores Huerta, the co-founder of the United Farm Workers. These posters are now displayed in thousands of schools, libraries, union halls and cultural centers.
        Working with Columbia University, Mr. Foner prepared a long oral history that Cornell University Press is scheduled to publish in July under the title ''Not for Bread Alone.''
        The name Bread and Roses came from the slogan in the 1912 textile strike in Lawrence, Mass., where the workers wanted bread and roses, too. ''It said in three words what this was all about,'' Mr. Foner said.
        Correction:  January 29, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the health care union leader Moe Foner on Jan. 11 misstated the name of the New York State Legislature committee that investigated him and his brother in 1942 during a drive against Communists in government. It was the Rapp-Coudert Committee, not Rabb-Coudert.
      