
        Hugh Morris Gloster, who as president of the historically black Morehouse College greatly strengthened its endowment and faculty in the civil rights era, died on Feb. 16 in Decatur, Ga. He was 90.
        As Morehouse's seventh president and the first graduate to lead the school, he served from 1967 to 1986, as most predominantly black colleges faced new challenges as a result of the civil rights movement. Many previously all-white institutions began recruiting the best black students, forcing black colleges to compete while also facing the economic difficulties of the 70's.
        Under Dr. Gloster's leadership at Morehouse, the campus doubled in size, as did the number of faculty members and their salaries. Faculty members holding Ph.D.'s increased to 65 percent of the total. Enrollment, meanwhile, doubled, and the endowment quadrupled to $29 million.
        The fields of study were also increased, with the addition of an international studies program, a school of medicine and eight major fields in the department of business.
        Dr. Gloster was also an author who often lectured on American literature and education. He wrote ''Negro Voices in American Fiction,'' in print since 1948, and ''My Life -- My Country -- My World'' (1952) which became a standard anthology in college literature courses.
        Hugh Morris Gloster was born May 11, 1911, in Brownsville, Tenn. He spent his early years in Memphis, where his father was a principal and teacher. After earning his bachelor's degree from Morehouse in 1931, he earned a master's degree from Atlanta University in 1933. He taught at LeMoyne-Owen College until 1941 and then at Morehouse until 1943, when he also earned a Ph.D. from New York University. He then worked for the United Service Organizations in Arizona and Atlanta.
        At the Hampton Institute in Virginia, he rose to become the dean of faculty and helped the college raise $21 million.
        Dr. Gloster was a Fulbright professor of English at Hiroshima University in Japan and in the international educational exchange program at the University of Warsaw in Poland. He was also a member of several presidential commissions.
        Dr. Gloster was chosen by Benjamin Mays, the previous president of Morehouse, to succeed him, with the assent of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who was on the board of trustees.
        Survivors include his wife of 45 years, Yvonne King Gloster; their daughters, Alice Burnette and Evelyn Dawkins; their son, Dr. Hugh M. Gloster Jr.; 4 stepchildren; 11 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
        ''The tradition that Dr. Gloster helped create has benefited all black educational institutions,'' said Pat Swygert, president of Howard University, another top black college, who added that ''the first two African-American presidents of Howard University, Mordecai Wyatt Johnson and James Nabrit Jr., were Morehouse men.''
        Correction:  March 12, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about Hugh Morris Gloster, former president of Morehouse College, omitted the names of his previous wives and misstated the length of his marriage to Yvonne Arnold King, who survives. Dr. Gloster's first marriage, to Louise Elisabeth Torrence, ended in divorce. In 1957 he married Beulah Victoria Harold, who died in 1985. Dr. Gloster and Ms. King were married in 1989, not 45 years ago.
      