
        Walter Goodman, a former reporter and critic at The New York Times and the author of a widely read history of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, died yesterday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his wife, Elaine.
        Mr. Goodman wrote nine books, including several children's books, as well as articles for a score of magazines. At The Times he also served as an editor in various sections and as an editorial writer.
        As television critic he specialized in news and documentary programs, and often used specific events or programs to make broader observations. In a 1992 article for The Columbia Journalism Review on riots in Los Angeles, he focused on racial stereotyping on television.
        ''Even in tranquil times, television gives a skewed picture,'' he wrote. ''The only black working people you can count on seeing on the screen any given night are anchors and athletes. People who go to their job every day and bring up children who go to school (unless they prove to be geniuses) are not and never have been newsmakers.''
        Mr. Goodman was born in the Bronx on Aug. 22, 1927, attended local schools and graduated as a journalism major from Syracuse University. He decided on journalism only after writing a novel he hated and never tried to publish.
        He next worked in London as an editor for the Foreign Broadcast Information Service, an American intelligence unit that monitored foreign radio broadcasts. He quit after his bosses tried to bar him from writing freelance articles for some magazines.
        He then held various writing and editing jobs for magazines, including The New Republic, Redbook and Playboy, where his wife said he was hired to bring more seriousness to literary articles.
        He joined The Times as deputy editor of the Arts & Leisure section, wrote for various sections and later wrote editorials. He left during a newspaper strike, then worked briefly as a senior writer for Newsweek and as an editor for WNET television , where his responsibility was coming up with ideas for documentaries.
        He returned to The Times to write articles about intellectual matters, then became a general critic before being assigned full-time to television.
        His chronicle of the House Committee on Un-American Activities,  ''The Committee: The Extraordinary Career of the House Committee on Un-American Activities,'' was published in 1968 by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
        He turned a sharp sword to both the investigators and the investigated, causing the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., writing in Book World, to suggest that Mr. Goodman appeared to lack sympathy for the damage done to some witnesses' lives. He nonetheless called the book ''a glorious piece of Americana.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Goodman is survived by his sons Bennet, of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and Hal of Waterloo, Ontario; his brother,  Daniel, who lives near Boca Raton, Fla.; and two grandchildren.
      