
        Guenter Hensler, a record business executive who worked with classical and popular music but was best known for restructuring the American classical divisions of Polygram in the 1980's and Bertelsmann in the 1990's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Friedrichshafen, Germany. He was 63 and lived in Lindau, Germany.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, said Tom Mowry, a family friend.
        Mr. Hensler was tall and soft-spoken with a low-key sense of humor and an encyclopedic knowledge of recordings. He first made his mark on the American classical music world in 1980, when he arrived from Germany to restructure Polygram Classics, which oversaw the interests of three European record labels, Deutsche Grammophon, Philips and London. The labels had an extraordinary roster that included the conductors Herbert von Karajan and Leonard Bernstein, the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, the pianist Alfred Brendel and the tenor Luciano Pavarotti.
        At the time, the record industry was recovering from several years of poor sales, and Mr. Hensler took the three labels, which had been associated but largely autonomous, and created a streamlined organization.
        He did a similar job at Bertelsmann, the German company that bought RCA and a number of European labels in the 1980's. Bertelsmann lured Mr. Hensler away from Polygram in 1989. He oversaw an extensive reconfiguration of the rosters of Bertelsmann's many labels so that each label had a distinct personality. RCA Red Seal became the company's flagship classical music label, and some of the stars of Melodiya, the Russian label Bertelsmann bought, were reassigned to Red Seal. Red Seal's musical theater recordings were transferred to Victrola. New music recordings became the province of the adventurous but short-lived Catalyst division.
        Mr. Hensler, born in Lindau, was drawn to the piano as a child, and briefly harbored dreams of becoming a pianist or a conductor. Although he gave up those hopes while a student at the University of Cologne, where he earned a master's degree in business and economics in 1964, he continued to study the piano.
        ''I was not a gifted pianist, and I knew it,'' he told an interviewer in 1981. ''But I had this great love for music, and I was studying business, so I thought, why not combine those two and go into records? It was like a flash of lightning.''
        Mr. Hensler acted on the idea immediately. At 19 he became a trainee at Electrola, the German arm of EMI Records. A project he undertook for Electrola, in which he assembled a statistical analysis of the company's -- and its competitors' -- repertory decisions over several decades, became his master's thesis.
        Mr. Hensler moved to New York in 1965, hoping to find a job in the record business.Eventually he landed a position at Vox, then a budget classical label. After three years there, he returned to Germany to work for Polygram, in Hamburg. After working for Deutsche Grammophon, the classical music label, for several years, he became second in command at Metronome, a German pop label also owned by Polygram.
        In January 1980, after two years at Metronome, Mr. Hensler was sent to New York as president of Polygram Classics. With Mr. Hensler's quick restructuring of the company's American classical music holdings regarded as a success, Polygram appointed him president of the entire label -- pop and classical -- in November 1981. During his tenure the company's pop division was revived with hit recordings by Def Leppard and John Mellencamp. He also signed Yoko Ono to a recording contract, a deal that brought Polygram ''Milk and Honey,'' a posthumous approximation of the project that John Lennon and Ms. Ono were working on when Mr. Lennon was shot to death in 1980.
        Mr. Hensler returned to Polygram's classical division in 1985 and remained there until he joined Bertelsmann. He retired in 1996 because of heart problems, and returned to Lindau.
        He is survived by his wife, Maren, as well as a daughter, Astrid Hensler, of Saarbrücken.
      