
        Moe Greengrass, who became Manhattan's ''Sturgeon King'' when his father, Barney Greengrass, left him the family's Upper West Side shrine to smoked fish, chopped liver and a good joke, died on Jan. 1 in Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gary said.
        The restaurant, on Amsterdam Avenue at 86th Street, is a place where today's reality -- heaping platters of lox served in a setting of peeling wallpaper and fluorescent lights -- suggests an Upper West Side that is becoming mythical: one where Isaac Bashevis Singer liked the lake sturgeon and Irving Berlin ordered four quarts of borscht a week. Among a pantheon of other customers were Franklin D. Roosevelt and Marilyn Monroe.
        Yesterday, as almost always, the tables were full, and on weekends current stars like Jerry Seinfeld and Brad Pitt sometimes amble in. Busloads of Japanese tourists also frequent the place as do filmmakers looking for a setting that is authentically New York.
        Moe Greengrass, seemingly unintentionally, presided over the transition from neighborhood spot to popular destination without committing the ultimate sin: scrimping on quality. He also pushed the business in new directions, including opening a branch in Beverly Hills.
        Until he had a stroke in the summer of 2000, he worked six days a week, often for 12 hours a day, bantering with his customers and counting the money; unfailingly he would have lollipops for children. Until a few months ago, he still came in and smiled at the customers, some of whom he had known since before 1929, when the restaurant moved from its original location in Harlem.
        Mr. Greengrass, who never stopped calling the restaurant's refrigerator an icebox, sliced a side of salmon with a neurosurgeon's precision; he had immaculately manicured hands and was a tad heavy owing to his fondness for the tender portion of the whitefish called the wing. While stalwartly manning the old-fashioned cash register, the post he favored in later years, he would fire off volleys of jokes like the one about the El Al flight that had to return two hours after takeoff because somebody had forgotten the horseradish.
        With the slightest encouragement, he delighted in pulling out a deck of cards and performing tricks. ''He'd sort of lift his eyes and there would be that twinkle,'' said Brian Kellman, a movie cameraman who was eating lunch there yesterday, as he does every week.
        Marvin Greengrass was born in Harlem on Jan. 11, 1917. The family lived above its appetizing store -- a name for a Jewish delicatessen -- at 113th Street and St. Nicholas Avenue. His father opened the store in 1908 after learning the business -- from soup to chopped liver -- from a man named Morris Cohen on the Lower East Side. A few years ago, Mr. Greengrass was pleased when a regular customer mentioned that his grandfather was named Morris Cohen, and it turned out to be the same man.
        James J. Frawley, a state senator and Tammany Hall leader, came up with the name ''Sturgeon King'' on one of his frequent visits to the restaurant.
        Moe Greengrass began helping out with the business as a boy. He graduated from Commerce High School in Manhattan and attended City College for two years, leaving at the age of 20 to help out with the family business. His father rewarded him by changing its name to Barney Greengrass & Son. (It is now, again, just Barney Greengrass.)
        Gary said his father, who learned to choose smoked fish by going to the market at dawn, quickly developed an uncanny ability to slice salmon at an angle so that any blemishes would not be apparent.
        Mr. Greengrass had a businessman's skepticism, refusing to believe that the man trying to place an order on the phone was the violinist Jascha Heifetz until he played something. But the businessman also personally took free sandwiches to Hank Greenberg when the baseball player was visiting Yankee Stadium.
        In addition to Gary, Mr. Greengrass is survived by another son, Barney, who chose a career on Wall Street over one in pickled herring sales. Both live in Manhattan. Two grandchildren also survive.
        When the senior Barney Greengrass died in 1956, Moe became sole owner of the restaurant. Gary became president in 1983, a year after he began to work full time at Greengrass.
        But Moe Greengrass never relinquished responsibility, and certainly never tired of giving advice. Gary recalled the time his father got the idea of buying a mailing list of Jewish doctors in order to solicit them for mail-order sales. More than a third came back because of bad addresses. ''What did you do, buy the mailing list of Woodlawn Cemetery?'' Moe asked.
      