
        Alvin M. Eicoff, an advertising executive in Chicago who gained his reputation making television commercials aimed at bleary-eyed late-night viewers, died last Saturday in Highland Beach, Fla.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said the advertising agency he started, A. Eicoff & Company.
        Mr. Eicoff, 80, lived in Highland Beach and Chicago.
        A specialist in direct-response advertising, he created some of the first commercials intended to prod consumers into buying products by calling or mailing in orders. His ads, featuring product demonstrations and frequent calls for viewers to act, provided a model for today's infomercials
        Mr. Eicoff, who was also hired as a consultant by AT&T in the development of the 800 number, was cited by Advertising Age magazine in 1995 as one of the 50 most influential advertising figures in television history. His later ads often used an 800 number to spur customers' responses.
        He began his career in radio in the 1940's, producing his first ads for a fly spray called Flypel and a rat poison called D-Con. Moving into television, he created commercials for Arizona and Florida real estate that featured pitchmen reminiscent of the carnival days.
        His early clients were often small entrepreneurs -- like the purveyors of Nu-Vinyl, Hair Wiz and Tarn-X silver polish -- but he also created campaigns for Avon cosmetics, Time-Life books and Columbia House records.
        A former partner, Ronald Bliwas, said Mr. Eicoff's most successful ad was for Columbia House's ''101 Great Moments in Music.'' The commercial began with the strains of an orchestra; an actor entered and then intoned, ''You may think this song is Tony Bennett's 'Strangers in Paradise,' but it is really the Polovtsian Dance No. 8 by Alexander Borodin.''
        The commercial was shown for 15 years.
        Mr. Eicoff, who valued sales effectiveness over slick production or creativity, had a strict formula.
        ''We need the 120-second commercial,'' he explained in an interview in 1970. ''We need 30 seconds for the tag line, and we have to leave the number on the screen long enough to make an impression. We'd bomb with 10 seconds.''
        He also insisted that every ad must end with these words: ''. . . or your money back.'' He used the phrase as the title for his primer on advertising, published by Crown Books in 1982.
        He started A. Eicoff & Company in 1965 in Chicago. A division of Ogilvy & Mather since 1981, the agency has many blue-chip clients, including Allstate and Sears, Roebuck. It still bills itself as a producer of television advertising for ''immediate, measurable results.''
        Alvin Maurey Eicoff was born June 8, 1921, in Lewiston, Mont. He is survived by his wife, Helene, and two sons, Jeffrey, of Mundelein, Ill., and Larry, of Ocala, Fla.
        In contrast to advertisers willing to pay millions for 30 seconds of air time during the Super Bowl, Mr. Eicoff did not believe in any correlation between ratings and sales.
        ''The worse the show, the better the return,'' he said in the 1970 interview, explaining that viewers rarely leave programs they are enjoying to make a phone call. He believed that the best time to advertise was when viewers have nothing else to do, like late at night.
        ''If they are tired,'' he said, ''their subconscious will accept without their consciousness fighting it.''
      