
        Dr. Paul Carbone, a cancer researcher who was honored for his work involving Hodgkin's disease, chemotherapy and other aspects of the treatment and prevention of cancer, died on Feb. 22 in Singapore, where he had gone to encourage cancer research. He was 70 and lived in Middleton, Wis.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Carbone was one of 16 winners of Albert Lasker Medical Research Awards in 1972, while he was with the National Cancer Institute. He was one of three doctors cited for contributions to the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease, a cancer of the lymph nodes. The other two were Dr. Vincent T. DeVita Jr., also of the National Cancer Institute, and Dr. Emil Frei III, a professor of medicine at Harvard.
        By 1972 advanced Hodgkin's disease had proved treatable by combination chemotherapy. The treatment that the three doctors developed and tested, commonly called MOPP -- for the four drugs mustargen, oncovin, procarbazine and prednisone -- had kept about 70 percent of patients alive and free of Hodgkin's disease five years after diagnosis.
        Dr. Carbone received other honors, including the American Cancer Society's Medal of Honor for Clinical Research.
        He was also known for his advocacy of early cancer detection and his work on the treatment of breast cancer, leukemia and other malignancies. His recent research included clinical studies of chemical means of preventing cancer.
        He was associate director for medical oncology at the National Cancer Institute, in Bethesda, Md., from 1972 to 1976 and held academic and administrative posts in medicine and oncology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison from 1976 to 1987. He was director of the University of Wisconsin's Comprehensive Cancer Center from 1978 to 1997.
        Dr. Carbone helped create the Wisconsin Cancer Council, the Wisconsin tumor registry and the University of Wisconsin's Center for Tobacco Research and Intervention.
        He was president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology and the American Association for Cancer Research.
        Born in White Plains, he attended Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., and received his medical degree from Albany Medical College.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Iamurri, whom he married in 1954; three sons, Dr. David, of Franklin, Tenn., Paul John, of Chicago, and Matthew, of San Rafael, Calif.; four daughters, Dr. Kathryn Carbone of Adamstown, Md., Dr. Karen Traber of Wayne, Pa., Kimberly Carbone of Naperville, Ill., and Mary Beth Catanzaro of Signal Mountain, Tenn.; and 16 grandchildren.
      