
        Alan Manson, an actor who appeared in ''This Is the Army,'' ''The Tenth Man'' and other Broadway shows, died on Tuesday in Jamaica, Queens. He was 83 and lived in Easthampton, N.Y.
        Mr. Manson was one of the 310 real-life soldiers chosen to be in ''This Is the Army,'' Irving Berlin's star-spangled 1942 tribute to the American forces. He played a stiff interlocutor in the first half of the show, but in the second half he came out in drag as Jane Cowl to lead the Stage Door Canteen number, in which celebrities served ordinary G.I.'s.
        He was also in the 1943 film version of the show, with Ronald Reagan.
        The show was enormously successful, running on Broadway and touring around the world, often to soldiers near the front line.
        By the time it closed in October 1945, ''This Is the Army'' had raised $15 million for the Army Emergency Relief Fund.
        After the war Mr. Manson played in the hit revue ''Call Me Mister,'' whose cast was made up of former soldiers and U.S.O. performers, as well as in Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Allegro'' and ''Angels Kiss Me.''
        In 1955 he was called before a House Un-American Activities panel in New York set up to investigate Communists in the theater. In a hearing on Aug. 18, Mr. Manson refused to answer questions about his party membership, citing the First, Fifth and even Ninth Amendments and his belief in privacy.
        ''I feel that these matters lie within a province that is hallowed,'' he said, ''and that I spent five years in the Army for.''
        His comments caused him to be blacklisted, his brother, Arthur, said, forcing him to take jobs like a position as a tour guide with the Circle Line, though he was later cleared.
        In 1959 he was in Paddy Chayefsky's drama ''The Tenth Man,'' starting in a minor role and eventually moving up the cast into the lead. He was also in Chayefsky's ''Gideon'' and played Ziegfeld in ''Funny Girl,'' opposite Barbra Streisand.
        From the 1960's until recently, he also played a variety of character parts in television and film, often a judge, doctor or other authority figure.
        Besides his brother, of the Bronx, he is survived by his wife, Corey Rose Lang, whom he married in May 2001.
        The cast of ''This Is the Army'' was the first integrated unit in the Army and remained a tight-knit bunch through the years, regularly getting together for reunions. The last was in 1997, at Sardi's in Manhattan, and their numbers had dwindled to 45.
        ''There is such joy at getting together,'' Mr. Manson said at the party, ''but we've lost so many.''
      