
        Harry V. Keefe Jr., a founder of the Keefe, Bruyette & Woods brokerage firm and later a manager of an investment fund, died Friday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
        The cause was a head injury after a fall, his wife, Anita, said. Mr. Keefe was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        Mr. Keefe was one of the first Wall Street securities analysts to specialize in bank stocks, and was also an adviser on several mergers that helped form large regional banks in the 1980's.
        Together with two partners, Gene Bruyette and Norbert Woods, he started Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in 1962 with just $50,000 in capital, Mr. Bruyette said.
        The three men met while working at another brokerage firm, Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, where Mr. Keefe began his career in 1946 as a municipal bond salesman. ''Research was very primitive then,'' Mr. Bruyette said.
        In a 1984 interview, Mr. Keefe said: ''I was the first person to compute a price-earnings ratio on bank stocks. They had traditionally been bought for their yields.''
        The firm specialized in regional banks and savings and loan associations, as opposed to the large, money center banks that were already being covered by the large brokerage firms, Mr. Bruyette said.
        After changes in the laws governing bank mergers led to increasing combinations across state lines in the 1980's, Mr. Keefe became involved in forming some of the biggest banking companies in the country.
        Mr. Keefe advised on two of the first interstate banking mergers: the 1985 combination of Sun Banks of Florida and the Trust Company of Georgia to form what is now known as SunTrust Banks, and First Atlanta's 1985 combination with the Wachovia Corporation.
        ''He was able to persuade clients because of the credibility and reputation for integrity he had created,'' said H. Rodgin Cohen, a longtime banking lawyer and chairman of Sullivan & Cromwell.
        When Mr. Keefe was advising First Atlanta on its friendly merger with Wachovia, the bank received a hostile offer from what was then the NCNB Corporation. Mr. Keefe persuaded his client to stick with Wachovia, even though the other bank's bid was higher, because he felt Wachovia's stock price would be higher in the long run.
        ''He was absolutely right,'' said Mr. Cohen, who was advising Wachovia at the time.
        Mr. Keefe left Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in 1989 and formed an investment firm, Keefe Managers, which runs a $150 million hedge fund specializing in financial services stocks. Mr. Keefe came to the office daily, although he ceased to actively manage the firm's investments three years ago, said John Lyons, president of Keefe Managers.
        Mr. Keefe was born on April 9, 1922, and grew up in Roslindale, Mass., a suburb of Boston, his wife said. He graduated from Amherst College with a bachelor's degree in economics in 1943.
        Mr. Keefe served in the Navy during World War II and was the commanding officer of a landing craft during the invasion of Normandy. He narrowly escaped injury when his boat was hit by enemy fire, even though he was carrying several tons of explosives. After the war, he attended Boston University's Graduate School of Business.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Kathleen Raffel, of Rochester, Minn.; a son, Harry V. Keefe III, of Basking Ridge, N.J.; two stepsons, Geoffrey de Lesseps, of Manhasset, N.Y., and Thomas Verderber, of Garden City, N.Y.; and nine grandchildren.
        Mr. Keefe was ''personally devastated'' by the large number of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods employees -- 67 out of the firm's staff of 224 -- who died in the World Trade Center attack Sept. 11, Mr. Lyons said.
        In an interview with The Hartford Courant soon after the attack, Mr. Keefe told a reporter how stunned he was about what had happened.
        ''I made the invasion of Omaha Beach on D-Day,'' he said. ''My ship got sunk by German fire, but I didn't lose a man. And here I sit comfortably in New York City. And suddenly 67 people I know are dead.''
      