
        Sir Raymond Firth, an anthropologist who wrote extensively on the cultures of remote Polynesian islands and was noted for his close attention to scientific evidence, died on Feb. 22 in London. He was 100.
        Sir Raymond began his fieldwork in Polynesia in the 1920's and remained fairly active until his death, making him a force in anthropology for about 80 years.
        During that period, colleagues said, as competing ideologies rose and fell among anthropologists and schisms cleaved the field, he held fast to the notion that one of the most important things anthropologists could do was begin by simply making careful observations of the world about them.
        ''Many of us were enthusiasts for some system or other -- Marxism, structuralism, psychoanalysis,'' Prof. John Davis, a former student of Sir Raymond's at the London School of Economics, wrote two years ago. ''The corridors of L.S.E. echoed to the pitter-patter of graduate students bubbling over with excitement at the possibility of applying some newly acquired idea to anthropology. Firth was gently resistant.''
        Sir Raymond's own background was in economics, and he drew heavily on that field when making his own analysis of cultures like that of the fishermen in Malaya, one of the two areas of study for which he was best known. The other was Tikopia, an atoll in the Solomon Islands that he chronicled extensively in nine books, including the 1963 work ''We, the Tikopia.''
        Born in Auckland, New Zealand, on March 25, 1901, Raymond William Firth traced his interest in Polynesian culture to his birthplace. Early on he studied the Maori, the indigenous people of New Zealand. Then in 1924 he enrolled in the London School of Economics, where he came into the orbit of the anthropologist Bronislaw Malinowski.
        Four years later, Dr. Firth made his first visit to Tikopia. At the time, Tikopia was a remote island, seldom visited, of about 1,200 inhabitants, who survived primarily through fishing and agriculture. He returned several times over the next decades.
        Sir Raymond was described as one of the first anthropologists to rely heavily on scientific evidence. His writings, praised for their clarity and lack of jargon, were credited with inspiring others outside the field to try their hands at anthropology.
        He closely studied the Tikopians' social structures and religious beliefs, as well as the physical surroundings and the way that environment influenced the daily habits of the people.
        ''He knew, I think, every little stone,'' said Dr. Sutti Ortiz, a former student of Dr. Firth's who now teaches at the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Richard Fardon, chairman of the Association of Social Anthropologists, a British group of which Sir Raymond was life president, credited Sir Raymond with setting a new standard for documentation.
        Sir Raymond was knighted in 1973.
        His wife, Rosemary, also an anthropologist, died last year. He is survived by a son, Hugh.
        Over the years, as theorists came to hold greater sway over anthropology, Sir Raymond's approach -- or at least his detractors' perception of it -- came into some disfavor. ''His contemporaries mocked his directness, his failure to abstract and to discover social structure,'' wrote Professor Davis, the former student, now warden of All Souls College at Oxford.
        Supporters argue that Sir Raymond did in fact advance theories but built them from the ground up rather than impose them on the cultures he studied. ''He wasn't a mindless empiricist and collector of facts,'' Dr. Fardon said. ''He was a believer that you had better get the facts straight before you can do anything else.''
        Correction:  March 16, 2002, Saturday  An obituary of the anthropologist Sir Raymond Firth on Thursday misstated the academic affiliation of Dr. Sutti Ortiz, a fellow anthropologist who commented on his thoroughness. She is a professor emerita at Boston University, not the University of Chicago.
      