
        Spyros Kyprianou, a former president of Cyprus who refused to compromise with the island's breakaway Turkish minority, died on Tuesday in Nicosia, the capital. He was 69. The cause was pelvic cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Elected president in 1977 after the death of his mentor, Archbishop Makarios, under whom Cyprus had achieved independence from Britain, Mr. Kyprianou was faced with the stubborn problem caused by Turkey's invasion in 1974 and the formation of a Turkish enclave in the north, which covered about one-third of the island.
        In an effort to end the island's partition, President Kyprianou agreed on an outline reunification plan in 1979 with Rauf Denktash, the Turkish leader. But the agreement fell apart within a week, with both sides disputing the details.
        President Kyprianou and Mr. Denktash met again at the United Nations in 1985 for talks with Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, saying the gap between them ''had never been so narrow.'' But those talks broke down after President Kyprianou rejected United Nations proposals for a federal solution.
        This failure strengthened the resolve of Cyprus's Turks, who had formed the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Only Turkey has ever recognized the entity.
        In 1988 Mr. Kyprianou lost the presidency to a millionaire businessman, George Vassiliou.
        Spyros Kyprianou was born in Limossol, Cyprus, on Oct. 28, 1932, the son of a prosperous businessman. After qualifying as a lawyer in London, he became Archbishop Makarios's representative in Britain during the struggle for independence.
        In 1956 he married Mimi Pagathrokliton, who survives him, along with two sons.
        When Cyprus finally achieved independence in 1960, with Makarios becoming the first president, Mr. Kyprianou was appointed justice minister and then foreign minister. It was a time of mounting communal violence between Greeks and Turks, which was only contained by the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers.
        But he was forced to resign in 1972 in a disagreement with the military junta then in power in Athens over efforts to unite Cyprus and Greece, efforts he opposed.
        In 1974 Greek Army officers led a successful coup against Makarios's government in an effort to unify the two countries by force, and Turkey invaded. Makarios fled to London, where Mr. Kyprianou joined him.
        Later that same year, the Greek junta fell and the anti-Makarios government in Nicosia collapsed, allowing the archbishop to return in triumph with Mr. Kyprianou as his adviser.
        In 1976 Mr. Kyprianou founded the Democratic Party; thanks to Makarios's support, the party won 21 of the 35 seats in the House of Representatives. Mr. Kyprianou was elected president of the House, becoming the archbishop's successor as president when Makarios died in office on Aug. 3, 1977.
        Four months later, after Greek Cypriot bandits kidnapped his son, Achilleas, President Kyprianou won great popularity by refusing to negotiate, saying he was ready to sacrifice his son but ''never my country.'' His son was released.
      