
        Leonid M. Ozernoy, a prominent Soviet-born astrophysicist whose campaign to emigrate to the United States in the 1980's drew international attention, died on Feb. 28 in a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 62 and lived in University Park, Md.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Ozernoy was among a group of scientists at the P. N. Lebedev Physics Institute in Moscow conducting groundbreaking research into quasars, black holes and other astronomical phenomena in 1979 when he was offered a visiting professorship at Harvard. The Soviet Union refused to let him travel, placing Dr. Ozernoy in the ranks of the refuseniks, Soviet Jews who were denied exit visas and punished for seeking them.
        Dr. Ozernoy -- who was also a vocal supporter of a Lebedev colleague, the dissident Andrei D. Sakharov -- lost his teaching job at Moscow University and was prohibited from publishing his research; his wife, Miriam (who adopted the name Maryanne after emigrating), was fired from the Pushkin Museum.
        He responded by organizing a campaign of hunger strikes and demonstrations, including a letter to the International Astronomical Union conference in Greece in 1982, which he was not allowed to attend. The union appealed to the Soviets to let Dr. Ozernoy go.
        Those efforts attracted the notice of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who met with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev in January 1986 to push for Dr. Ozernoy's release. Seven months later, Dr. Ozernoy, with his family, arrived in the United States, saying he hoped that many other refuseniks would ''step at the same land of liberty and will be as happy.''
        Dr. Ozernoy continued a career in astrophysics that was remarkable for its breadth in an era of specialization, said Stuart L. Shapiro, professor of physics and astronomy at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
        ''It's rare when someone can move from atoms and molecules to planets in the solar system to a neutron star to a black hole,'' Dr. Shapiro said, ''but he could jump from one part of the universe to another.''
        He said Dr. Ozernoy wrote some of the earliest papers on quasars, distant starlike objects with a brightness equivalent to trillions of suns, establishing how they accrete gas and radiate energy and how they influence the basic structure of the galaxies in which they reside.
        Dr. Ozernoy also produced influential papers on the formation of black holes; magnetic stars and pulsars; cosmic radio sources; the thermal history of the intergalactic medium; and the evolution of cosmological turbulence, Dr. Shapiro said.
        Leonid M. Ozernoy was born in Moscow on May 19, 1939. His father was an engineering professor and inventor; his mother was a poet. He earned degrees in physics and astronomy from Moscow University, and a doctorate in physics and mathematics from Lebedev.
        His first position in the United States was at the Harvard-Smithsonian Astronomical Observatory; he went on to research positions at Los Alamos National Laboratory and the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. In 1993 he joined George Mason University in Virginia, where he was a professor of physics and computational sciences.
        In addition to his wife of 33 years, he is survived by two daughters, Ilana Ozernoy of New York and Alisa Ozernoy Kuperman of Boston.
      