
        Thomas Winship, who as editor of The Boston Globe for two decades propelled the newspaper to regional leadership and national stature, in part through tireless coverage of the court-ordered school busing that split the city in the 1970's, died yesterday in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Lincoln, Mass.
        He had been under care for lymphoma at Massachusetts General Hospital, said his son Laurence.
        Mr. Winship, who started out as a reporter in Washington, grew up in a newspaper family. His grandfather  A. E. Winship had been editor of The Boston Traveller. His father, Laurence, joined The Globe in 1911 as a reporter and was named editor in 1955. Thomas Winship succeeded him in 1965 and by his retirement in 1984 built The Globe's circulation and prestige in a period of often disruptive economic and social change. At the height of the busing dispute, bullets flew through The Globe's newsroom windows.
        Mr. Winship made The Globe the third newspaper, after The New York Times and The Washington Post, to defy government secrecy and publish the Pentagon papers on the Vietnam War. His staff covered the school busing crisis with such  voluminous and balanced reporting that it was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1975. The paper won 12 Pulitzer Prizes under his leadership.
        Mr. Winship fit the mold of the crusading big-city editor, a position made easier because, until 1981, he directed both the news and editorial pages, roles that are usually separate at major newspapers. The Globe was the second major newspaper, after The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, to call for American withdrawal from Vietnam.
        Often, in the view of critics and admirers, Mr. Winship's advocacy was apparent not just in editorials but in the news pages. For example, when The Globe campaigned for handgun control and a bottle-redemption bill, Time magazine said,  the newspaper ran hundreds of articles that argued for its views.
        In ''Common Ground,'' by J. Anthony Lukas (Knopf 1985), a pain staking examination of the way court-ordered racial integration affected three Boston families, Mr. Winship was quoted as calling traditional journalistic objectivity ''a code word for playing it safe.''
        Mr. Winship did not shrink from pursuing stories wherever they went. He said his most painful decision was to publish an investigation of the finances of the liberal Republican Edward W. Brooke, the first black United States senator since Reconstruction. The inquiry contributed greatly to Senator Brooke's defeat in 1978.
        Mr. Winship believed that quality journalism was good business, and he proved it, expanding The Globe's coverage of sports, science and the arts. When he began, there were five newspapers in Boston and The Globe was just beginning to pull ahead of The Boston Herald in circulation. In his tenure The Globe's daily circulation rose by 40 percent, to 520,000, and Sunday circulation by 50 percent, to 792,786. The newspaper became dominant, though some purists worried that its focus had become more suburban as its circulation crept ever outward.
        In the newsroom, in the corridors of Harvard and at the journalism conventions he loved to attend, Mr. Winship's casual flamboyance -- reflected in flowered bow ties, red suspenders and the battered pickup truck he drove to work -- was reinforced by the breezy affability of an Irish politician.
        ''Whadya say, pal? Howya doing?'' he would call to colleagues.
        With his own sense of style, this WASP scion (though not a Boston Brahmin) worked to bridge the gap between The Globe and its readers.
        Thomas Winship was born in Cambridge, Mass., on July 1, 1920. Soon after, his family moved to Sudbury, a farming community 16 miles west of Boston. His family was of modest means, and his early education was unusual.
        The industrialist Henry Ford had discovered a one-room schoolhouse linked by legend to the story of Mary and her little lamb. He installed it on a Sudbury hillside and furnished it with 19th-century desks and a potbellied stove. He then recruited a teacher and 16 local children, Tom Winship among them.
        When Mr. Ford produced a movie about Mary and the lamb, Tom's job was to hide the animal under his desk until the director was ready for it.
        Mr. Winship followed his father to Harvard, where he founded the ski club and met Elizabeth Coolidge, who became his wife. She survives him, as do a sister, Joanna Crawford of Lincoln, Mass.; two sons, Laurence, of Minneapolis, and Benjamin, of Victor, Idaho; two daughters, Margaret, of Eagle Bridge, N.Y., and Joanna, of Minneapolis; and eight grandchildren.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1942, Mr. Winship took laboring jobs and then joined the Coast Guard. He served as a combat correspondent aboard a troop ship on D-Day. After the war, while working at Coast Guard headquarters in Washington, he got a night job writing obituaries for The Washington Post. He continued at the paper, covering the police, after his discharge.
        He considered himself apolitical and said he was surprised when Senator Leverett Saltonstall, a Massachusetts Republican, offered him a job as press secretary. The experience awakened a political streak in the young man, who became a Democrat. He said he thought Republicans were too negative.
        Mr. Winship returned to The Post for six years, then joined The Globe as its Washington correspondent. He returned to Boston in 1958 to be metropolitan editor, then managing editor.
        He was in charge when The Globe broke the news that Senator Edward M. Kennedy had cheated on a test as a Harvard undergraduate. Later, as executive editor, he published a series of articles on the senator's auto accident at Chappaquiddick that Mr. Kennedy called ''ugly, untrue and grossly unfair.''
        Yesterday, Mr. Kennedy said in a statement that Mr. Winship ''was truly the hallmark of what a newspaper editor should be.''
        Succeeding his father in 1965, he immediately defined himself as his own man by taking on the remnants of McCarthyism, decaying neighborhoods and racial segregation, subjects on which his father on which his father's Globe had often declined to comment. The Globe won its first Pulitzer Prize for articles on the unsuitability for the federal bench of Francis X. Morrissey, a Kennedy family retainer.
        Mr. Winship broke more new ground by banning advertisements from the front page and eliminating the signature ''Uncle Dudley'' from editorials, which had been a folksy tradition at The Globe. The newspaper also made its first political endorsement in 72 years, for Kevin H. White over Louise Day Hicks, a school board member and busing opponent, in the 1967 mayoral race. He signed up columnists like Ellen Goodman and Peter Gammons, the baseball writer.
        After his retirement from The Globe, he was the first senior fellow at the Gannett Center for Media Studies (now the Freedom Forum) and the founding chairman of the Center for Foreign Journalists, a nonprofit institute offering seminars for Third World journalists.
        Two decades after the swirling, violent fight over integrating Boston schools, Mr. Winship said his biggest disappointment in journalism was not suggesting more nuanced approaches. But he said he still believed that his support for integration was absolutely right.
      