
        Gilmore T. Schjeldahl, an enterprising American inventor whose knowledge of plastics, adhesives and electronics enabled him to create the world's first communications satellite, died on Sunday in the Berkshire community of Lenox, Mass., his hometown since 1999. He was 89 and had earlier lived in the Minneapolis area for five decades.
        Mr. Schjeldahl's groundbreaking satellite, Echo I, launched by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in August 1960, made possible the first direct coast-to-coast television transmissions: radio waves bouncing off its aluminum surface were reflected back to earth.
        The 100-foot inflatable sphere, expanded after its launching from  Cape Canaveral, Fla., was then the largest object ever lofted into space, and stayed in orbit for eight years.
        Echo I was made with a new flexible DuPont polymer called Mylar, coated with vaporized aluminum. Holding it together was an adhesive Mr. Schjeldahl had invented, which he called Schjel-Bond.
        Among the several businesses that Mr. Schjeldahl founded over the years was the G. T. Schjeldahl Company, now Sheldahl Inc. of Northfield, Minn., a leading manufacturer of laminates and circuitry. Even before the Echo project, the company, formed in 1955, had begun to use Mylar in atmospheric balloons for the military and NASA.
        Mr. Schjeldahl never retired as an inventor. At 86 he was tinkering with circuitry using fiber optics, which, he believed, could eliminate unstable elements in the gadgetry of cockpit dashboards.
        Gilmore Tilmen Schjeldahl was born in Esmond, N.D., a son of Norwegian immigrants. He attended high school and college but finished neither before being drafted into the Army in 1943. He served as an infantryman at the Battle of the Bulge.
        After the war, while with the meatpacker Armour & Company in Chicago, he started working with a new resin called polyethylene, used in the making of tough lightweight plastics. In a basement laboratory at home, meanwhile, he and his wife, Charlene, found a way to cut and seal sheets of plastic with hot knives. With a $100 investment he undertook his first business, making polyethylene bags for packaging.
        By 1954 he had 100 employees and annual sales of $500,000, and was experimenting with lamination technology and adhesives for Mylar. He eventually won 16 patents, and manufactured products like an airsickness bag with a plastic liner, a bread-bagging machine and vegetable wrappings.
        Mr. Schjeldahl, a patron of the arts, served on the board of the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis. He supported an exhibition, shown in North Dakota and New York, depicting the ravages of the Grand Forks flood of 1997.
        He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Charlene Hanson Schjeldahl; two sons, Peter, of Manhattan, and Don, of Kent, Ohio; three daughters, Ann Morris of Bovina, N.Y., Peggy Schjeldahl of Lenox, and Mary Schjeldahl of Worthington, Mass.; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      