
        Henry Woods, a federal district judge who presided over a long school desegregation battle in Little Rock, Ark., in the 1980's and was removed from a Whitewater case because of his friendship with President Bill Clinton, died on Thursday in Little Rock. He was 83.
        The desegregation case, which ran from 1982 to 1990, was brought about by the changed racial composition of the Little Rock school district. The district had been predominantly white but became largely black as a result of integration efforts.
        Judge Woods decided to merge the district with two predominantly white neighboring districts. But the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit struck down the plan, as well as a number of modified versions of it, and Judge Woods eventually withdrew from the case.
        In 1996, a panel from the Eighth Circuit court removed Judge Woods from a case against Gov. Jim Guy Tucker of Arkansas, whom the Whitewater special prosecutor, Kenneth W. Starr, had indicted over business irregularities.
        Judge Woods, appointed by President Jimmy Carter in 1980, had dismissed the indictment, saying Mr. Starr exceeded his jurisdiction. The Eighth Circuit court reinstated the indictment and said that another judge should handle the case because Judge Woods was believed to know the Clinton family. Mr. Tucker subsequently pleaded guilty.
        Henry Woods was born on March 17, 1918, at Abbeville, Miss., and earned a law degree from the University of Arkansas in 1940. He joined the F.B.I., and was assigned to Buffalo, Newark and New York City, where he was one of the first agents on the scene after a B-25 bomber accidentally crashed into the Empire State Building on July 28, 1945.
        In 1943, he married the former Kathleen Mary McCaffey.
        Returning to Arkansas in 1946, Mr. Woods practiced law in Texarkana. A high school friend of Sidney McMath, Judge Woods managed Mr. McMath's successful campaign for governor of Arkansas in 1948 and was his executive secretary from 1949 to 1953.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Eileen Harrison and Mary Sue, of Little Rock, and two sons, James, of Statesboro, Ga., and Thomas, also of Little Rock.
      