
        Sylvester L. Weaver Jr., a pioneering television executive who created the NBC programs ''Today'' and ''Tonight'' and did much to shape the medium's pervasive influence, died Friday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93.
        Mr. Weaver, who worked at NBC from 1949 until 1956, when he resigned as chairman, went into television with a background in radio and advertising. He melded acute marketing skills with a creative, sometimes philosophical approach to television as it became a staple of American life. In just seven years, Mr. Weaver, known as Pat, left an imprint as the most important innovator in television programming,  championing such influential programs as ''Meet the Press'' and ''Your Show of Shows.''
        ''Pat Weaver was the first major creative force in television programming and one of the most innovative executives in the history of television,'' Bob Wright, the chairman of NBC, said in a statement.
        Mr. Weaver, the father of the actress Sigourney Weaver, brought an intellectual approach to television programming, and expressed regret in later years that few network shows met the standards he hoped to set. In 1954, a New Yorker magazine article described Mr. Weaver as ''not only the leading showman'' in television, but also its ''most unrelenting thinker and most vocal theorist.''
        When Mr. Weaver joined NBC, at a time when television sets were an uncommon luxury in American homes, the industry was run like radio, with sponsors producing and controlling their own programs. Mr. Weaver argued that networks should produce the programs and sell commercial time to advertisers. He also commissioned live NBC specials, including a production of ''Peter Pan'' with Mary Martin and a broadcast of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors,'' the first opera commissioned for television.
        According to the Museum of Broadcast Communications, these ''spectaculars'' were intended to entice families to buy television sets, a strategy well received by NBC's parent company, the RCA Corporation, which controlled several patents on the technology.
        Mr. Weaver created ''Today,'' with its host Dave Garroway, in a successful 1952 bid to lure people away from early morning radio programs. Although television news programs were handicapped at the time by unwieldy camera equipment, the morning time slot gave ''Today'' all night to assemble news footage.
        His greatest power over network programming came when Mr. Weaver was NBC's president, a job he was forced to relinquish in 1955 to Robert Sarnoff, the son of Gen. David Sarnoff, the head of RCA. Although Mr. Weaver was then appointed chairman of the network, he resigned in 1956.
        In a 1994 interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Weaver criticized network programming. ''It's very disappointing,'' he said. ''There's occasional good things on, but there's no consistent arts programming. ''
        Born Sylvester Laflin Weaver Jr. on Dec. 21, 1908, in Los Angeles, Mr. Weaver was the son of a wealthy roofing contractor. He graduated magna cum laude from Dartmouth College in 1930. For most of the following two decades, he worked as a radio announcer and station manager, and as an executive with Young & Rubicam, the advertising firm. He married Elizabeth Inglis, an actress, in 1942, and served in the Navy from 1942 through 1945.
        Despite his powerful influence over television in the 1950's, Mr. Weaver's attempts to shape the media after his departure from NBC proved largely unsuccessful.
        In the early 1960's, he headed Subscription Television Inc., which hoped to be one of the first providers of cable television. The company's attempt to set up cable service in California was blocked by a referendum initiated by established television broadcasters. In subsequent litigation, the Supreme Court ruled that the referendum had been unconstitutional, but the company collapsed under financial pressure.
        He co-wrote a book about his life, ''The Best Seat in the House: The Golden Years of Radio and Television,'' in 1994. The book recounted his work at NBC ''lightly and easily,'' Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times, describing it as an ''uncomplicated narrative'' that at one point described hard feelings toward General Sarnoff, referred to by Mr. Weaver as General Fangs.
        Mr. Weaver's work is also documented in his speeches and policy memorandums, which NBC donated to the Library of Congress in 1992.
        The papers, collected in a series of neat gray spiral-bound notebooks, begin with Mr. Weaver's description of a ''magazine concept'' for television, in which programs would be sponsored by several advertisers. In a memo dated July 19, 1951, he sketched out his rough idea for ''Today.'' His working title for the program was ''Rise and Shine.''
        ''A morning communications show, which will give the news, time, weather, tips for commuters and which will feature a rise-and-shine personality,'' the memo said.
        Besides his wife, also of Santa Barbara, and daughter, Mr. Weaver is survived by a son, Trajan, of Utah, five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        Correction:  April 20, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on March 18 about Pat Weaver, the NBC executive who created the ''Today'' and ''Tonight'' shows, referred incompletely to the network's acquisition of the opera ''Amahl and the Night Visitors'' in 1951. As head of the entertainment division, Mr. Weaver had overall responsibility for encouraging original programming, but it was Samuel Chotzinoff, head of NBC's music department, who commissioned the piece from Gian Carlo Menotti. The omission was reported to The Times on March 20 by Mr. Chotzinoff's daughter; this correction was delayed for research and by an editing lapse.
      