
        John Erickson, one of the foremost scholars on the development of the Red Army and its role in World War II, died on Feb. 10 in a hospital in Edinburgh. He was 72.
        He had come down with a bad case of the flu and then contracted an infection, from which he died, said a friend, David M. Glantz.
        Mr. Erickson mined exceptional personal contacts in the Soviet hierarchy and thousands of original Soviet and German documents to tell of the development of the Soviet military after the Russian Revolution and the epic victory it won on the eastern front of World War II.
        The historian A. J. P. Taylor called his two volumes on the Russian-German war -- ''The Road to Stalingrad,'' 1975, and ''The Road to Berlin,'' 1983, both published by Harper -- ''in a class by themselves, books of the first importance.''
        Another compliment came from Soviet generals who asked him to autograph their copies.
        Mr. Taylor's approach was to collect enormous amounts of material, which initially might have seemed like mountains of propaganda. But by comparing fact against fact, including many from German sources, then adding in hundreds of personal interviews and checking against maps, he was able to create a strikingly new context. His resultant judgments were considered so perspicacious that many assumed he must have been a spy, a role he said he was offered but turned down.
        His first book, ''The Soviet High Command: A Military-Political History'' (St. Martin's, 1962) has been perhaps even more influential among professional historians. In great detail, it traced the Red Army through Stalin's purges to the preparations for World war II.
        Colonel Glantz, who is editor of The Journal of Slavic Military Studies, said each page of these books is packed with information.
        ''They really merit three or four readings,'' he said. ''In fact, the fifth or sixth reading will produce new judgments on the part of a reader. In other words, his books have to be studied.''
        Mr. Erickson, in the preface to ''The Road to Stalingrad,'' said his ambitions transcended standard military history.
        ''In sum, it is an attempt to probe how the Soviet system functioned under conditions of maximum stress,'' he wrote. He said it should be regarded as ''a form of social history.''
        He was born in Newcastle, England, on April 17, 1929, to Norwegian parents. His father was a ship worker who served in convoys from Archangel to Murmansk during World War II. A Swedish forbear was in the Russian Navy and served on the cruiser Aurora, which fired the blank shot signaling the assault on the Winter Palace in 1917.
        He studied history at Oxford and Cambridge and served in British intelligence during World War II in the Balkans, where he had his first meeting with the Soviet military when he encountered Russian troops. He and a tank commander played chess.
        He taught at Oxford, St. Andrews and Manchester universities before joining the University of Edinburgh in 1967, where he became director of the university's Center for Defense Studies. During the last decade of the cold war, he held seminars, called the ''Edinburgh conversations,'' with Western and Soviet officials.
        Mr. Erickson made his first trip to the Soviet Union in 1963, when he was research assistant to Cornelius Ryan, author of the popular history of D-Day, ''The Longest Day.'' At the time, Khruschev was opening windows to the West and had decided to help the historian.
        Mr. Erickson's fluency in Russian and smart questions impressed his hosts, but they refused to answer his queries about brutality by Russian troops in Berlin. They suggested he was prejudiced against them.
        ''I went white with anger,'' he said. He then told them that his wife, the former Ljubica Petrovic, had been liberated by Russians and that, as a historian, he had no prejudices.
        The Russians verified the story about his wife and were impressed by his history of the Red Army, which surpassed any single book published in Russian. They gave him the information.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his daughter, Amanda, and son, Mark.
        Mr. Erickson became so friendly with the Red Army brass on his various visits that, he said, ''the difficulty was to get them to stop talking.'' Yuri Gagarin once took him for a ride in his sports car.
        ''He may have flown a rocket into space, but he couldn't drive a car,'' Mr. Erickson said. They crashed into a bus.
        On another visit, he was handed a shoebox as he was touring a K.G.B. archive. He was told that Hitler's jawbone was inside.
        He advised the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the British Defense Ministry and the United Nations, but refused a request by Iraq to help update its combat manuals. He also politely declined an offer from a mysterious Mr. Popov to do what he was sure was espionage.
        ''He told me I was very clever, that I did good work and that I held opinions worthy of serious consideration,'' Mr. Erickson said. ''Didn't I think these views should reach a wider audience? There were agencies and individuals who would value them.''
        His refusal did not end his access. At a subsequent NATO meeting held on the fringe of the Iron Curtain, he corrected a general holding forth on Warsaw Pact force levels.
        ''And, pray, where do you get your figures from, Mr. Erickson?'' the general asked.
        ''Oh, the Russians told me,'' he answered.
        Correction:  March 21, 2002, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about John Erickson, a historian of the Red Army, misstated the period of his British military service. It was 1946 to 1949, not during World War II.
      