
        Arthur G. Altschul, an art collector, investment banker and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Centre Island, N.Y.. He was 81 and also lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He had been in declining health for several months, his son Arthur G. Jr. said.
        Mr. Altschul collected art for more than four decades, notably Neoimpressionist and Pointillist paintings as well as works by the Nabis and by the Ashcan School. In 1965 the Yale University Art Gallery had a major exhibition titled ''Neoimpressionists and Nabis in the collection of Arthur G. Altschul.''
        At his death, he was a member of the chairman's council of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He had been a vice chairman of the Yale University Art Gallery's governing board, a trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art and a member of the trustees' council of the National Gallery of Art.
        Mr. Altschul was a general partner in the investment banking firm of Goldman, Sachs & Company from 1959 to 1977 and a limited partner from 1977 to 1999. He was chairman of General American Investors, a closed-end investment concern in which his family has a substantial interest, from 1961 to 1995.
        From 1977 to 1983 he was chairman of the board of Barnard College, a post his mother, a Barnard graduate, had also held. He was also a former president of the trustees of St. Bernard's School, in Manhattan, of which he was an alumnus.
        When he died, he was chairman of the Overbrook Foundation, a charity founded by his parents. It has assets of more than $150 million and makes grants to groups including environmental, human rights and educational organizations. He was also its president from 1981 to 2001.
        Arthur Goodhart Altschul was born in Manhattan to the former Helen Lehman Goodhart and Frank Altschul, an investment banker who was a senior partner at Lazard Frères until 1945 and chairman of General Investors Corporation until he retired in 1961.
        Arthur G. Altschul graduated from Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts and in 1943 from Yale College.  He served in the Marines from 1943 through 1945 and was a New York Times reporter in the late 1940's, writing about the early days of the United Nations and other topics.
        He had family connections to the Lehmans, and he moved on to be an an analyst with Lehman Brothers before joining General American Investors for a time and then Goldman Sachs.
        His first wife, the former Stephanie Wagner, died in a plane crash. His marriages to Siri von Reis and Diana Landreth Childs ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son Arthur G. Jr., he is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Dey whom he married in 1996; two other sons, Charles, and Dr. Stephen; two daughters, Emily Helen Altschul and Serena von Reis Altschul, a former MTV News correspondent, now with CNN; a stepson, Whitney Sudler Smith; two grandsons; and a sister, Edith Graham.
      