
        Joseph Charles, who became famous by being very, very friendly, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. He was 91.
        Every weekday morning for three decades, Mr. Charles stood on a street corner in adjacent Berkeley and waved to each passing motorist. It made him a local legend, indeed, something of a national wonder, and attracted coverage from Charles Kuralt and People magazine.
        On the morning of Oct. 6, 1962, Mr. Charles stepped out of his newly purchased white clapboard house in Berkeley and waved to neighbors down the block. They waved back. The waving quickly became a ritual.
        Inspired, he began waving at cars that passed the intersection of Oregon and Grove Streets.
        ''At first,'' Mr. Charles said, ''people thought I was crazy. They called me a Communist and said I would cause a wreck.''
        But one person waved back, then another and then another. Some honked. A motorist gave him a pair of yellow gloves, and they became his trademark. He eventually owned 20 pairs, one of which is in a local museum.
        He estimated that each day he waved to at least 4,500 people, nearly 1.2 million a year. When his right arm grew tired, he used his left.
        ''Keep smiling!'' Mr. Charles shouted endlessly. ''Have a good day!''
        Of course, there was more to his life than waving. He did just that from 7:45 to 9:30 a.m. rain or shine.
        He was born and raised in Lake Charles, La., and moved to the San Francisco Bay area in the 40's to work in the shipyards. He married his high school sweetheart, the former Flora Shade, who died in 1982. His sole survivor is a grandson.
        Mr. Charles worked at the Oakland Naval Supply Center from 1942 until 1971. As a young man, he played for the Lake Charles Black Yankees, part of the Negro Leagues. He loved to tell the story about batting against Satchel Paige, the immortal pitcher. He struck out, but got a foul tip.
        He stopped waving in 1992, on his 30th anniversary at the corner of what had become Oregon Street and Martin Luther King Jr. Way. For the last few years, he had been waving from his window.
        ''I go to bed thinking about waving,'' Mr. Charles said in an interview with CBS News. ''I get up thinking about waving. But now I don't want to get up. That's the whole thing in a nutshell.''
      