
        Leonard Gershe, a playwright and screenwriter who was the author of the hit play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died on March 9 in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said Harold Nelson, his business manager.
        ''Butterflies Are Free,'' about a young blind man from Scarsdale, N.Y., who defies his protective mother and moves into his own apartment in Manhattan, opened in October 1969 and became one of the most successful plays in Broadway history. It ran for three full seasons and had more than 1,100 performances, an unusually long run for a nonmusical work. It had a successful London production and continues to be popular in regional theaters.
        ''If a committee had sat down and meticulously worked out what it takes to produce a hit Broadway comedy,'' Clive Barnes wrote, reviewing the show in The New York Times, ''this is almost precisely the expertly packaged product that might have emerged.''
        ''Butterflies'' starred Keir Dullea as Don Baker, the earnest, striving blind man; Eileen Heckart as his mother; and Blythe Danner as Jill Tanner, the flaky young woman who lives next door, falls in love with him, leaves him and finally returns. It was Ms. Danner's first major role on Broadway and made her a star overnight.
        Gloria Swanson took over the role of Don's mother in the fall of 1971, extending the show's success for another season.
        In its film version in 1972, which Mr. Gershe adapted himself, the scene was moved to the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco, with Goldie Hawn replacing Ms. Danner as the flighty love interest. Ms. Heckart, who died this past December, reprised her role and won an Academy Award for best supporting actress.
        Mr. Gershe was inspired to write ''Butterflies'' after hearing a news report about Harold Eliot Krents, a young man from Scarsdale who was determined to succeed despite his blindness and who went on to get a law degree from Harvard. Mr. Krents wrote an autobiography in 1972, ''To Race the Wind,'' and died of a brain tumor in 1987, at 42.
        Mr. Gershe was born in Manhattan and got his start writing for musicals, including ''Alive and Kicking,'' a revue, in 1948; ''Horse Opera,'' a spoof of Westerns, in the same year; and ''Wedding Day,'' produced by Clinton Wilder, in 1951.
        In the 1950's he started writing for Hollywood, including ''Funny Face'' and ''Silk Stockings'' in 1957, both starring Fred Astaire. ''Funny Face'' used the Gershwin score from the original stage production in 1927 but had a new story written by Mr. Gershe; his screenplay was nominated for an Oscar.
        In 1959 he adapted ''Destry Rides Again'' into a musical on Broadway, with Dolores Gray and Andy Griffith.
        After ''Butterflies'' Mr. Gershe wrote a screen adaptation of the play ''40 Carats'' (1973) and another play, ''Snacks,'' which was announced in 1982 but never made it to the Broadway stage.
        He is survived by a brother, Richard Gershe, and a sister, Selma Becker, both of Manhattan.
      