
        David Hawkins, a philosopher of science who was an assistant to J. Robert Oppenheimer when he directed the Manhattan Project to build an atomic bomb and the official historian of the project, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 88.
        After the project, of which he was later very critical, he spent the balance of his life teaching and writing about the philosophy of science and training teachers in the education of children in science and math.
        He received a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant in 1986, the first year of the awards, for work in philosophy and childhood science education.
        David Hawkins was born on Feb. 28, 1913, in El Paso, the youngest of seven children of William Ashton Hawkins, a railroad lawyer and a founder of the city of Alamogordo, N.M., and Clara Gardiner Hawkins.
        He attended the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut, leaving after his junior year to enroll at Stanford University, where he majored in philosophy. After receiving a B.A. in 1934 and an M.A. in 1937, he went to the University of California, earning a Ph.D. in probability theory in 1940.
        In 1937, he married Frances Pockman, a teacher and writer. He taught at Berkeley until May 1943, when he went to Los Alamos, N.M., as the official government historian of the Manhattan Project and liaison officer to the War Department, as well as Dr. Oppenheimer's aide.
        From Los Alamos, he went to Washington in 1946 to teach at George Washington University. The next year he was hired as an associate professor of philosophy at the University of Colorado, where he spent the rest of his teaching career.  In 1949, he developed, along with Herbert Simon, an economist, a theory known as the Hawkins-Simon condition, which is still taught in advanced macroeconomic courses. The theory helped economists understand the interconnectedness of various sectors of an economy.
        In December 1950, Dr. Hawkins was called before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in its investigation of reports of Communist infiltration at the University of California's radiation laboratory and atomic bomb projects. He testified that while at Berkeley he joined the Communist Party in 1938 and left it in the spring of 1943. Both he and his wife, who also testified, refused to name any people they had known to be Communists unless their names had already been cited by the committee. He denied that there was a Communist cell at the radiation laboratory.
        His grandson Scott Fisher said that in a vote on his future employment, the regents of the University of Colorado split evenly, but his job was saved when one of them died.
        Dr. Hawkins published ''The Language of Nature: An Essay on the Philosophy of Science'' (1957), among other books. In 1995, he gave the Robert Oppenheimer Memorial Lecture at Los Alamos on the 50th anniversary of the Manhattan Project.
        In addition to his wife and Mr. Fisher, of Hoboken, N.J., he is survived by his daughter, Julie Fisher Peck of Lebanon, Ohio; and another grandson, Thomas Fisher, of Portland, Me.
        Dr. Hawkins was reared in the New Mexico desert and is credited with having chosen the drop site for the first test of the bomb, but he felt little enthusiasm for the project.
        As he told an interviewer in 1995, after the bomb was dropped he no longer felt a doomsday weapon was needed, and he was disturbed by the scientists' casual hallway debate over the possibility, however slim, that the blast might ignite nitrogen in the atmosphere and literally blow up the world.
        Correction:  March 6, 2002, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Monday about David Hawkins, historian of the Manhattan Project, misstated the year in which he won a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant. It was 1981, not 1986.
      