
        Rabbi Israel Miller, a leading advocate for Holocaust survivors as president of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, died on Thursday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 83 and had moved to Israel from Manhattan about two years ago.
        He had a brief illness, the conference said.
        A retired senior vice president of Yeshiva University, Rabbi Miller remained active as president of the claims conference until his death. He took the position in 1982 and led negotiations on benefits for victims of Nazism still alive in many countries.
        He was a spokesman in many forums for both American and world Jewry, and his many positions included the chairmanship of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations in the 1970's. Over the years he was president of the Rabbinical Council of America, chairman of the American Jewish Conference on Soviet Jewry, secretary of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture, founding president of the American Zionist Federation and a founding vice president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York.
        But it was as the head of the claims conference that he did his most notable work. He helped obtain hundreds of millions of dollars for victims of Nazism who were not covered by earlier restitution agreements. He led negotiations with German and Austrian officials in the 1990's as well as talks held to work out the details in the years that followed.
        One agreement covered Jewish claims against the former East Germany, which had refused to accept responsibility for Nazi atrocities. West Germany did so in 1951 and paid out an estimated $37 billion in reparations to Israel, Jewish organizations and individual claimants by 1990.
        Much of the money negotiated since then has been earmarked to support elderly survivors in Europe, Israel and the United States. Additional money has supported research and educational programs concerning the Holocaust.
        Israel Miller was born in Baltimore, and he graduated magna cum laude from Yeshiva College in 1938. He was ordained in 1941 at the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary and was a chaplain in the Army Air Corps in the United States and overseas during World War II.
        In 1941, he was named rabbi of the Kingsbridge Heights Jewish Center in the Bronx. After his wartime military service, he remained its spiritual leader for 25 years, until he joined the Yeshiva staff in 1968.
        He started at Yeshiva as an assistant to the president, rose to vice president in 1970 and was senior vice president from 1979 to 1994. He also taught applied rabbinics at the affiliated Rabbi Elchanan seminary.
        Rabbi Miller is survived by his wife of 51 years, Ruth Goldman Miller; two sons, Rabbi David, of Jerusalem and Rabbi Michael, of Teaneck, N.J.; two daughters, Deborah Kram of Boston and Judith Kalish of Jerusalem; a brother, David, and a sister, Dorothy Miller, both of Netanya, Israel; 19 grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      