
        Steve Gromek, the Cleveland Indians pitcher who provided a signature moment in the integration of Major League Baseball when he was photographed in a joyful embrace with Larry Doby at the 1948 World Series, died March 12 at a hospital in Clinton Township, Mich. He was 82.
        Gromek, who lived in Shelby Township, Mich., had pneumonia and experienced complications from a stroke, said his wife, Jeanette.
        A right-handed pitcher with an outstanding fastball, Gromek won 19 games for the Indians in 1945 and had 123 career victories in 17 major league seasons with Cleveland and the Detroit Tigers. But he was remembered mostly for something that happened not on the field, but in the clubhouse.
        Gromek pitched a complete-game 2-1 victory over the Boston Braves and Johnny Sain at Cleveland's Municipal Stadium on Oct. 9, 1948, to give the Indians a lead of three games to one in the World Series. The winning margin was provided by a third-inning home run by Doby, the Cleveland center fielder, who had become the first black player in the American League the previous season, two and a half months after Jackie Robinson broke the major league color barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers.
        Gromek and Doby hugged each other in the clubhouse, smiling broadly, an embrace captured in a photograph taken by The Plain Dealer of Cleveland and transmitted to newspapers around the country.
        At a time when resistance to black players was still intense, it was a signal moment of brotherhood.
        ''That picture of Gromek and Doby has unmistakable flesh and blood cheeks pressed close together, brawny arms tightly clasped, equally wide grins,'' wrote Marjorie Mackenzie, a columnist for the African-American newspaper The Pittsburgh Courier. ''The chief message of the Doby-Gromek picture is acceptance.''
        The Indians won the Series in six games. Gromek, who had a 9-3 record in 1948 and started Game 4 only because Bob Feller was given an extra day of rest, remained with the Indians until June 1953, when he was traded to the Tigers. He was 18-16 for Detroit in 1954. He retired after the 1957 season with a career record of 123-108.
        After managing in the minors for a season, he worked as a car insurance sales representative.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Greg, of Beverly Hills, Mich., and Carl, of Lansing, Mich.; a sister, Jean Dopirak, of Oxford, Mich.; and five grandchildren.
        When Doby's No. 14 was retired by the Indians in 1994, Gromek remembered that World Series photo.
        ''It seemed in the picture like I was kissing him,'' he told The Plain Dealer. ''I was being interviewed in front of my locker, and somebody asked Larry to come over. He put his arm around me and squeezed me so hard I thought he was going to break my ribs. We were both so happy.''
        Gromek recalled the stunned reaction to the embrace when he returned home to Hamtramck, Mich., after the World Series. ''People who were close to me would say, 'Steve, how can you do it?'
        ''That stuff didn't bother me,'' he said.
        Doby, a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, also reflected on that World Series moment when he was honored at the 1994 ceremony.
        ''That was a feeling from within, the human side of two people, one black and one white,'' he said. ''That made up for everything I went through. I would always relate back to that whenever I was insulted or rejected from hotels. I'd always think about that picture. It would take away all the negatives.''
      