
        William H. Scholl, the son of a founder of the Dr. Scholl's company and the developer of the wooden sandals that became as much fashion as foot care, died March 15 at a hospital in Douglas, on the Isle of Man.
        He was 81 and lived on the Isle of Man, an autonomous British crown authority in the British Isles.
        The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Susan, said.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Scholl brought home a wooden sandal from a trip to Germany; he reshaped it and sold it as a way to flex the arch of the foot and thus theoretically help to prevent common podiatric ailments.
        Young women saw the sandal as something else: affordable fashion. As sales increased, Mr. Scholl began distributing the sandals with the advertising slogan, ''Looking good and doing you good.'' The sandals soon had sales of $30 million a year in the United States alone.
        ''It was the hippie generation that went for the sandals in a big way,'' said Don Anderson, then marketing director of the company.
        ''At one point, we had to buy up a whole forest in Austria to keep up with the demand,'' he said. ''But it came and went. After it was gone, I had two teenage daughters, and I couldn't even give the sandals away to them.'' The sandals are still made.
        Mr. Scholl took the company public in 1971. In 1979, Dr. Scholl's became a brand of Schering-Plough HealthCare Products.
        Mr. Scholl became president of the international consumer products division and continued to work for Schering-Plough until his retirement in 1984.
        William Howard Scholl was born in London on Sept. 24, 1920, the third son of Frank Scholl. He graduated from St. Edmund's College in Ware, Hertfordshire, and then from Christ's College in Cambridge, where he majored in modern languages.
        In World War II, Mr. Scholl became an intelligence officer and, because of his knowledge of German and Japanese, interrogated prisoners of war.
        After the war, Mr. Scholl worked to revive the family business and, over the next few years, the blue-and- yellow packaging of the Dr. Scholl's foot-care products became a common sight.
        The first Dr. Scholl, William Scholl's uncle, was an American physician who in 1906 began selling foot doctor's equipment and foot-care items like corn plasters and arch supports.
        Dr. Scholl's brother Frank joined the business in 1910, and the next year moved to London as chief of a new company selling Dr. Scholl's products in Europe.
        Mr. Scholl was married four times; his first three marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his wife Susan, he is survived by their daughter, Lucy-Jane; the children of his first marriage, four sons, Michael, of Berkshire, England; Paul, of Redding, Conn.; Peter, of Devon, England; Tony, of Cambridge; and a daughter, Mary, of Gloucester, England; as well as two brothers, Charles and Allan of Chicago, and a sister, Sister Edith of Wrentham, Mass.
      