
        Harold Weisberg, an implacable critic of the government's investigation of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Frederick, Md.
        He was 88.
        A former journalist, investigator for the Senate Committee on Civil Liberties and analyst for the Office of Strategic Services in World War II, Mr. Weisberg had retired to be a Maryland chicken farmer and writer by the time of the shooting in Dallas in 1963.
        Incensed by the government's investigation into the assassination, he published a response at his own expense, the bluntly titled ''Whitewash'' (1965). In it, he argued that careful analysis of the evidence presented in the Warren Commission's report undermined the single-bullet theory and, with it, the possibility that Lee Harvey Oswald had acted alone.
        Mr. Weisberg followed this book, which was republished by Dell in 1966, with ''Whitewash II.'' That book presents a close examination the Zapruder film and questions the time sequence accepted by the Warren Commission.
        He wrote four more sequels, each devoted to evidence in the commission report and to government documents that he uncovered using the  Freedom of Information Act. Over the years, he collected more than 250,000 government papers on the assassination, all of which he stored at his home in Maryland.
        Unlike many other critics of the investigation, Mr. Weisberg cannot accurately be called conspiracy theorist, because he did not speculate about who might have been involved in the assassination.
        Jim Garrison, a New Orleans district attorney, was inspired by ''Whitewash'' to search for and prosecute conspiracy suspects. But in a 1992 opinion article in The Washington Post, prompted by ''JFK,'' the Oliver Stone film about Mr. Garrison, Mr. Weisberg wrote that ''the proliferating conspiracy theories mislead and confuse as much or more than the faulted official conclusions.'' In a letter to The Post, Mr. Weisberg called the movie a ''monumental piece of disinformation.''
        Mr. Weisberg was also a critic of the government's handling of the investigation into the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968. Hired as an investigator for James Earl Ray, he came to believe that his client had not fired the bullet that killed Dr. King. In his subsequent book, ''Frame-Up'' (Outerbridge & Dienstfrey, 1971), Mr. Weisberg maintained that although Mr. Ray was a member of a racist group, he was merely a decoy and had been  pressured into a confession, which he later recanted.
        Mr. Weisberg had his own critics and accusers. In a review of ''Whitewash'' in The New York Times Book Review, Fred Graham, then the Supreme Court correspondent for The Times, wrote that it was ''difficult to believe that any institution could be as inept, careless, wrong or venal'' as Mr. Weisberg implied.
        Mr. Weisberg, who was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Wilmington, Del., is survived by his wife, Lillian Stone Weisberg, and two sisters.
        Mr. Weisberg saw some of his beliefs vindicated in the final report of the House Select Committee on Assassinations in 1979, which concluded that President Kennedy's death was probably the result of a conspiracy. The report criticized the Warren Commission for failing to ''investigate adequately the possibility of a conspiracy,'' placing a large part of the blame on the refusal of ''the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to provide it with all relevant evidence and information.''
      