
        Hans-Georg Gadamer, a leading figure of 20th-century philosophy who spent an extraordinarily long career contemplating the nature of meaning and understanding, died in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 13. He was 102.
        A student of Martin Heidegger and the successor of Karl Jaspers at Heidelberg University, Dr. Gadamer was the author of ''Truth and Method'' (1960), one of the most influential works in the field of hermeneutics, the study of the understanding and meaning of texts. In the book, he confronted the scientific ideal of objectivity, arguing that personal experience, cultural tradition and prior understandings make unbiased interpretation of any perception of reality impossible.
        He also considered the related question of how ideas are transmitted, asserting that the meaning of a text is unfixed, and changes according to the interplay between the author's intentions and the reader's understanding.
        These views did not drive Dr. Gadamer to completely reject the notion of truth. He recognized the need for it in the social context and encouraged critical self-awareness as a way to limit biases and to move closer to objectivity.
        Dr. Gadamer received two doctorates for his work on Plato, from Marburg University in 1922 and from Heidelberg -- where he studied with Heidegger -- in 1929. He began his university teaching career in 1934 at Kiel, moving to Marburg in 1937 and then to Leipzig in 1939.
        Unlike his mentor Heidegger, he was never associated with Nazi efforts to remake German universities, and, as a result, Soviet authorities allowed him to keep his Leipzig post after World War II.
        His ability to avoid politics was due in part to his deep involvement in academic interests. He once remarked to a colleague, ''I basically only read books that are at least 2,000 years old.''
        Allowed to move to West Germany in 1947, he received his appointment at Heidelberg in 1949, retiring in 1968. In the years that followed, he lectured at a number of American universities, including Boston College, Vanderbilt and Catholic University. He was the author of more than 15 books published in English, including an autobiography, ''Philosophical Apprenticeships'' (1985).
        Dr. Gadamer was born in Marburg on Feb. 11, 1900. He is survived by his wife, Käthe, and daughter, Andrea.
        Keenly interested in art and literature, Dr. Gadamer identified with the Greek philosophers throughout his life. Summarizing his connection to them and his contribution to this field in ''The Idea of the Good in Platonic-Aristotelian Philosophy'' (1986), he wrote, ''philosophy is a human experience that remains the same,'' adding, ''there is not progress in it, but only participation.''
      