
        Big John Patton, a soul-jazz organ player who was a mainstay of the East Coast organ-club circuit since the early 1960's, died on Tuesday in Montclair, N.J. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from diabetes and kidney malfunction, his wife, Thelma, said.
        Mr. Patton's style was laid-back, bluesy and pianistic, at times going beyond the aesthetic restrictions of the genre when he was collaborating with experimental jazz musicians.
        Mr. Patton played locally in Newark and New York, but developed a broader audience when John Zorn hired him to play a tense, climactic solo on ''Erotico (The Burglars),'' a track on Mr. Zorn's 1986 album, ''The Big Gundown.'' That collaboration coincided with a renewed appreciation for 1960's organ jazz.
        Born in Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Patton was mostly self-taught on the piano. His brother went to Howard University and Mr. Patton followed him to Washington and began working in the area. He toured with the rhythm-and-blues singer Lloyd Price from 1954 to 1959, often playing clubs that had organs in the corner; that sparked his interest in the instrument and he left Price, took up the Hammond organ, and moved to New York. He rehearsed with the guitarist Grant Green and the drummer Ben Dixon, soon to be his collaborators in a band led by the saxophonist Lou Donaldson.
        Mr. Patton was with Mr. Donaldson from 1962 to 1964, with Green for several years in the mid-60's, and with Clifford Jordan in 1966. He often ranged beyond the soul-jazz genre, playing with more experimental musicians like the trombonist Grachan Moncur III, and John Gilmore and Marshall Allen from Sun Ra's band.
        Mr. Patton led his own trio from 1963 to 1969, including the guitarist James (Blood) Ulmer, and recorded 11 albums for Blue Note. Later, for the Nilva label in 1983, he recorded ''Soul Connection''; he also made ''This One's for J. A.'' for DIW in 1995 and ''Blue Planet Man'' for Evidence in 1993.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by brothers Leroy, of Portland, Ore., Jesse, of Gary, Ind., and Jerry, of Lansdale, Pa.; and sisters Patricia Gooden of Colorado Springs, Co., and Antoinette Medina of Kansas City.
      