
        Thomas J. Kelly, the engineer who led the team that designed and built the spacecraft that landed Apollo astronauts on the Moon, died on Saturday at his home in Cutchogue, N.Y., on Long Island. He was 72.
        The cause was respiratory failure related to his six-year battle with pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        Mr. Kelly's work earned him the designation ''father of the lunar module'' from NASA.
        When President John F. Kennedy charged the nation to land astronauts on the Moon before the end of the 1960's, Mr. Kelly rallied a team of engineers at what was then the Grumman Aircraft Corporation of Bethpage, N.Y., to build a vehicle to take a crew to the Moon and let them blast off again for the journey back to Earth.
        Mr. Kelly helped develop the lunar orbit rendezvous concept that made the Moon landings possible with the rocket power available at the time. The Grumman team came up with the idea of a two-stage spacecraft that would take two astronauts to the Moon's surface while a third crew member stayed in orbit around the Moon in the command module, which would eventually take the crew back to Earth.
        The effort culminated in a Lunar Excursion Module, or LEM, designated Eagle, which landed Apollo 11's Neil Armstrong and Edwin E. Aldrin Jr. on the Moon on July 20, 1969. After a brief exploration of ''Tranquility Base,'' the astronauts rocketed back to the orbiting command module in the upper part of the LEM, leaving behind the base, which served as a launching pad.
        ''Nobody at Grumman who worked on the lunar module will ever forget it,'' said Mr. Kelly -- who spent most of his career with the company -- in a 1999 interview. ''We all knew that we were part of a majestic endeavor, and that we were making history happen.''
        Joan Tantum Kelly, his wife of 50 years, said that her husband brought the excitement of the Apollo program home. ''With Tom on it, I had no doubt that it would all come out fine,'' she said, ''If it was an engineering problem, he would work it out. He would never give up on a problem.''
        To recount what he called the highlight of his career, Mr. Kelly spent six years writing a book about his experiences. The book, ''Moon Lander: How We Developed the Apollo Lunar Module,'' was published last May by Smithsonian Institution Press.
        Mr. Kelly, who was born in Brooklyn, earned a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell in 1951, and a master's degree in the same field from Columbia in 1956. In 1970, he received a master's in industrial management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        After graduating from Cornell, Mr. Kelly joined Grumman as a propulsion engineer and later performed the same job at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base when he was called up for military service. He worked as a space propulsion engineer for Lockheed's missiles and space division in 1958 and 1959, then returned to Grumman and quickly began studying ways to get people to the Moon.
        In 1972, he received the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Distinguished Public Service Medal for his Apollo work and in 1991 was elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
        Mr. Kelly retired from Grumman in 1992, after 38 years with the company, which later merged with Northrop to form the Northrop Grumman Corporation and dispersed its operations from Long Island.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kelly is survived by five sons, David, of Huntington, N.Y.; Thomas, of Little Rock, Ark.; Edward, of Sharon, S.C.; Christopher, of Mattituck, N.Y.; and Peter, of Merrick, N.Y.; a daughter, Jennifer Lachmayr of Reading, Mass.; a brother, Robert, of Salinas, Calif.; and 10 grandchildren.
      