
        Dudley Moore, the multitalented British actor, comedian and musician noted for his performances in the 1960's stage revue ''Beyond the Fringe'' and the films ''10'' and ''Arthur,'' died yesterday at his home in Plainfield, N.J. He was 66.
        A spokeswoman for the actor said that the cause of death was pneumonia as a complication of progressive supranuclear palsy, a disease that attacks various neurological functions.
        A diminutive man, Mr. Moore was renowned for his affinity for tall women, usually blonde -- he was married and divorced four times -- and a versatility that carried him from the stage in the 1960's to Hollywood movies in the 70's and 80's and finally to the concert stage as a pianist in the early 90's. But the big career predicted for him after his movie successes evaporated in a string of bad roles, misconceived projects and stormy personal relations that in recent years often landed him front and center in the British tabloids.
        Mr. Moore's climb to prominence began with ''Beyond the Fringe,'' a comic revue he created with three other young performers: Peter Cook, with whom Mr. Moore had a 15-year professional relationship; Alan Bennett, a fellow Oxford graduate of Mr. Moore's, and Jonathan Miller.
        A savagely hilarious lampoon of deadly serious public issues, the show had its origins at the Edinburgh Festival in 1960, moving on to London and then to Broadway, where it played from 1962 to 1964 and had a brief revival in 1965.
        When it opened in New York, the country was in the throes of the Cuban missile crisis, and audiences were nervous. Cook and company showed no mercy. ''Get out of the danger area,'' Mr. Cook warned. ''That's where the bomb drops.''
        Mr. Moore planted himself in the audience at the John Golden Theater and fired questions at his three co-players onstage. ''Please, panel,'' he asked, ''following the holocaust, when will public services be resumed?'' Mr. Cook responded that all was provided for but added that at first it may be only ''a skeleton service.''
        While his colleagues concentrated on political commentary, Mr. Moore took to the keyboard for a wild rendition of the ''Colonel Bogey March,'' which rattled on thunderous chord after thunderous chord while he desperately tried to come up with an ending.
        After the show closed, Mr. Moore collaborated on various projects with Mr. Cook, who died in 1995. The pair performed as a two-man group and in the late 1960's made albums, a moderately successful BBC series called ''Not Only . . . but Also'' about two working-class fellows, and several films.
        Throughout his career Mr. Moore's fortes were clowning and a physical humor reminiscent of Charlie Chaplin. Years after he had become a star in ''10'' and ''Arthur,'' he felt that his brand of comedy annoyed his more erudite ''Beyond the Fringe'' colleagues.
        ''Peter says, 'I can't understand Dudley's success,' '' Mr. Moore said in an interview, ''and Jonathan says, 'I think he can do better.' I think they feel I'm a lightweight, doing lightweight material, having a lightweight life.'' Mr. Miller once described Mr. Moore as a ''grubby cherub.''
        A combination of circumstances seemed always to put Mr. Moore on the defensive. Born on April 19, 1935, in the East London suburb of Dagenham, he was the son of a railroad electrician and a secretary. Suffering from a club foot and small stature, he had a boyhood marred by abuse from his peers.
        ''I think most comedians start off defending themselves with comedy,'' he once said. ''They feel inferior in some way. I certainly did feel inferior. Because of class. Because of strength. Because of height. If I'd been able to hit someone in the nose, I wouldn't have been a comic.''
        Music was always a consolation. As a youngster he studied the violin and played the organ at church weddings. After attending Oxford on a music scholarship, graduating in 1957, he developed into an accomplished jazz pianist touring England and the United States.
        In 1966 Mr. Moore made his first movie, ''The Wrong Box,'' about a family's riotous, no-holds-barred scramble for an inheritance. Mr. Cook was also in the film, which starred John Mills, Ralph Richardson, Peter Sellers and Michael Caine.
        Over the next decade Mr. Moore made several more films, all of them unremarkable. In 1973 he returned to Broadway with Mr. Cook in a revue called ''Good Evening,'' which was a hit and won a special Tony Award.
        In 1978 he starred with Goldie Hawn and Chevy Chase in the film ''Foul Play,'' about a woman accused of murder in San Francisco. Mr. Moore drew attention as a swinger obsessed with sex.
        A good-looking man of 5 foot 2, he attracted women, most of whom towered over him, with a combination of vulnerability and Pan-like sexuality. ''Whether women wanted to mother him or smother him, I don't know,'' Mr. Cook once said.
        A year after ''Foul Play,'' the director Blake Edwards made him a major movie star in ''10.'' On an endless, feverish search for perfect-looking women, a composer named George (Mr. Moore) finds one in the person of a tall blonde named Jenny (Bo Derek). Like Mr. Moore himself, George feels inadequate, especially in Southern California, a land of magnificent physical specimens forever jogging.
        George is at his best when in physical or psychological peril. ''The movie belongs very much to Mr. Moore, who manages to be funny without ever having to appear stupid,'' Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times.
        In 1981 came ''Arthur.'' Mr. Moore starred opposite Liza Minnelli and won a Golden Globe Award for his performance as a rich, lonely drunk who caroms around New York in a raucous manner somehow made tolerable by his open manner and the fact that he eventually will be worth $750 million.
        Mr. Canby wrote in The Times that Mr. Moore was ''if possible, more uninhibitedly comic'' than he was in ''10.''
        ''His Arthur is a satyr, a sprite, an over-age waif and a consistently endearing showoff,'' Mr. Canby wrote. ''His timing is magical.''
        It was the high point of Mr. Moore's film career, which deteriorated into a succession of bad movies. In 1988, for example, came ''Arthur 2: On the Rocks,'' with Mr. Moore as a not-so-lovable drunk the second time around. ''Arthur has become a clamorous bore,'' Mr. Canby wrote.
        The one bright spot was another Blake Edwards comedy, ''Micki and Maude'' (1984), in which Mr. Moore played a television newsman who impregnates both his wife and his mistress. Again he won a Golden Globe.
        Two decades earlier in ''Beyond the Fringe'' he had exclaimed: ''I don't want to see lust and rape and incest in the theater. I can get it all at home.''
        Over the years, Mr. Moore's love life became something of a legend, even by Hollwood standards. A four-year marriage to the actress Suzy Kendall ended in 1972. In 1975 he married the actress Tuesday Weld. They had a son, Patrick, and were divorced in 1980. For several years his companion was the singer Susan Anton, who was nine inches taller than Mr. Moore. In 1988 he married the model Brogan Lane. They were divorced in 1991.
        Mr. Moore's fourth marriage was in 1994 to Nicole Rothschild, who was 29 years his junior. The couple had a son, Nicholas, but it was an explosive union. The year before they married Mr. Moore was charged with ''cohabitational abuse.'' He and Ms. Rothschild separated, were reunited but parted again in 1997, with Ms. Rothschild suing Mr. Moore for domestic violence.
        Mr. Moore is survived by his sister, Barbara Stevens, and his sons, Patrick and Nicholas.
        As his movie career gradually dried up in the early 1990's, Mr. Moore tried television. Because he was still a big name, producers were eager to back him, but two series, ''Dudley'' in 1993 and ''Daddy's Girls'' in 1994, were failures.
        By then, though, he had turned to the concert stage. This time the music was classical. In 1982 he had performed Bach and Mozart at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. ''All in all, he fought the concert stage to a draw,'' one critic wrote.
        In 1991, having performed at Carnegie Hall and the Hollywood Bowl, he collaborated with the conductor Sir Georg Solti on ''Orchestra!,'' a series for Channel 4 in Britain. The demanding Hungarian-born Solti, who died in 1997, and the small comic actor made a memorable pair.
        ''At first I did not know how to address Dudley or what to do with him as a musician,'' Solti told an interviewer in The Los Angeles Times. ''After a half hour it was easy. He's a film star and I'm a conductor. But for a film star he is quite excellent at playing the piano, and for a conductor I look quite good on film.''
      