
        Mace Brown, an outstanding relief pitcher who yielded one of baseball's most memorable home runs, Gabby Hartnett's ''homer in the gloamin' '' that propelled the Chicago Cubs to the 1938 National League pennant, died Sunday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 92.
        In the years before World War II, few baseball teams used relief specialists, but the Pittsburgh Pirates had a good one in the right-handed Brown, who featured an overhand curveball.
        In the late afternoon of Sept. 28, 1938, Brown was pitching against the Cubs in the ninth inning of a 5-5 game at Wrigley Field in Chicago with pennant hopes on the line. The Cubs, in a late surge, had closed to a half-game behind first-place Pittsburgh after winning the previous day.
        The twilight -- or gloaming, as it came to be known -- had so darkened the field by the end of the eighth inning that the umpires had considered calling the game, setting up a doubleheader the next day. But they decided to play one more inning.
        After retiring the first two batters, Brown faced Hartnett, the Cubs' 37-year-old catcher and manager, a future Hall of Famer.
        ''I got him strike one, then a foul ball for strike two, both curves,'' Brown recalled in an interview for ''Pen Men'' (St. Martin's Press, 1992) by Bob Cairns. ''When he was swinging at one of them, he just looked like a schoolboy, and I said to myself, 'I'll just throw him a better one and strike him out.' Well, I just made a lousy pitch. He hit it to left center up into the seats. I didn't follow it into the darkness. I knew it was gone.''
        After connecting on the high pitch, Hartnett was mobbed by fans as he circled the bases. The Cubs followed up their 6-5 triumph with a victory against Pittsburgh the next day and went on to finish two games ahead of the Pirates.
        While a rookie with the Pirates, Brown had been a spectator of sorts on another dramatic afternoon. He was on the bench at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh -- his wife, Sue, taking motion pictures from the upper deck -- on May 25, 1935, when Babe Ruth, closing out his career with the Boston Braves, hit his last three homers.
        After his 714th and final homer, off Guy Bush -- the first drive ever to clear the Forbes Field grandstand in right and measuring some 600 feet -- Ruth entered the Pirates' dugout on the way to the tunnel serving the clubhouses, deciding he would exert himself no more that day. He sat down briefly next to Brown.
        ''He looked down our bench and said, 'Boys, that last one felt good,' '' Brown recalled in his interview for ''Pen Men.''
        Ruth played his final game five days later.
        The motion picture would have been a treasure for the Baseball Hall of Fame. But the Browns discarded it in the 1980's when the film began to disintegrate.
        Mace Stanley Brown was born in North English, Iowa, and pitched for the University of Iowa before signing a pro contract. He had his best season in 1938 when he was 15-9 although starting in only 2 of his 51 appearances. He pitched the last three innings in the National League's 4-1 victory in the 1938 All-Star Game at Crosley Field in Cincinnati.
        Brown was a league leader twice in saves and twice in games pitched in his 10 seasons in the major leagues for the Pirates, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Boston Red Sox. He retired after the 1946 season with a career record of 76-57.
        He is survived by his son, Al, of Belhaven, N.C.; a daughter, Carolyn McKinney, of Greensboro; five grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren. His wife died in 2000.
        After his pitching career ended, Brown was a longtime scout for the Red Sox.
        In reflecting on the Hartnett home run more than half a century later, Brown maintained that he suffered no ill effects.
        ''The homer in the gloamin' thing is something they don't let you forget,'' he said. ''But I'll tell you what. I never let it affect me the next year or during the rest of my career. I think of it as what it was. It was just a lousy pitch.''
      