
        Alfred H. Lane, a librarian who worked without pay for years just for the love of research and picked up enough pennies on the street to give hundreds of dollars a year to the needy, died on March 20 at St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Lane was the volunteer librarian at the Writers' Room, a haven for novelists, historians, cookbook writers and anyone else able to prove seriousness about writing. About 400 members pay $225 a month for 24-hour access to the loft space at 10 Astor Place.
        Mr. Lane showed up at the Writers' Room in 1988, a decade after its founding, and volunteered to be the librarian, a position that had never existed. At the time, the room owned one book: a dogeared dictionary.
        By the time he retired in February 2001, leaving a $25,000 contribution for the room's endowment fund, Mr. Lane had assembled a collection of 3,000 books geared to writers' interests, including encyclopedias, foreign-language dictionaries, a text on medieval Icelandic drama and a history of hell.
        He managed to make his acquisitions with hardly any expense, using his contacts in the book world from a 40-year career as a librarian at Columbia University.
        He habitually wore a grease-stained windbreaker, shabby pants and a distinctive scarf. When he went out to lunch with colleagues, he took his leftovers home, and sometimes theirs as well.
        He specialized in answering writers' obscure questions, from how to correspond with federal prisoners to who paid for Alice Liddell, the Alice of ''Alice in Wonderland,'' to come from London to Columbia University to accept an honorary degree. (''Columbia, apparently.'')
        ''I bamboozled some people into thinking that I knew everything under the sun,'' he once said.
        Alfred Henry Lane was born in Albany on May 30, 1916. He graduated from the University of Minnesota, where he majored in literature, and his first job was as a clerk for the Delaware & Hudson Railroad Company. He did not like it, so he went to Columbia to earn bachelor's and master's degrees in library science.
        He joined Columbia's library staff in 1944, eventually became head of the department of gifts and exchanges, and retired in 1981. He then volunteered to be a librarian at the City University of New York, working without pay for five years.
        Donna Brodie, executive director of the Writers' Room, said Mr. Lane showed up one day saying he had read about the place and wanted to start a library. No salary was discussed, she said, adding that he said he had bought General Electric stock at 15, the first of many investments.
        He is survived by his sister, Marguerite Lane of Vero Beach, Fla., and his two brothers, Donald, of Vero Beach, and Clayton, of Palo Alto, Calif.
        Mr. Lane also became known for his habit of wandering the city looking down in search of coins. ''I think the day is lost if I don't find a dollar in change,'' he once said in an interview. He once found a $10 bill, but his staple was pennies.
        For years, he would double what he found and write a check to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. In 1992, he gave $515.30. By 1995, he was finding so much money that he stopped doubling it and gave just the found money, which in 1999 totaled $481. Part of the reason he stopped multiplying by two was that he wanted to give more to other charities, particularly the Gay Men's Health Crisis.
        He always specified to the Neediest Cases Fund that his contribution should go to the homeless because they lived in the public places where he found the money.
      