
        Richard Bradford, a novelist of the Southwest who wrote ''Red Sky at Morning,'' died last Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Jacquita Jones, his companion of 10 years.
        Mr. Bradford was born in Chicago and brought up in New Orleans, but he wrote deftly about life in the racially divided desert towns of New Mexico, where he lived part of his childhood and most of his adult life.
        ''Red Sky at Morning,'' published in 1968, was Mr. Bradford's first novel, and it immediately established his reputation as a literary light of New Mexico. A loosely autobiographical coming-of-age story about the Arnolds, an upper-class white family from Alabama finding a mild culture clash in moving to tiny Corazon Sagrado, N.M., the book was praised by many critics as a ''Catcher in the Rye'' set in the Southwest. It was quickly made into a film starring Richard Thomas and Claire Bloom.
        With sharply defined comic characters and detailed use of local dialects, ''Red Sky at Morning'' used humor to make trenchant social commentary. In one passage, one of the local children, Steenie, explains the local concept of race to Joshua, the main character, telling him that in Corazon Sagrado they recognize only ''Anglos, Indians and natives.'' Joshua asks how to classify a black man, and Steenie responds: ''He's an Anglo. That is, he's an Anglo unless you're differentiating between him and an Indian. Then he's 'white.' I admit he's awfully dark to be white, but that's the way it goes around here.''
        In The New York Times Book Review, John Knowles called it ''a refreshing book, straightforward, funny, touching and, despite the caricatures and wisecracks and passed-over problems, true.''
        In 1973 Mr. Bradford published another New Mexico novel, ''So Far From Heaven,'' which was not as well received as ''Red Sky.''
        Mr. Bradford never produced another book. He continued to write freelance book reviews and humorous pieces, but he later told friends that he suffered from writer's block and found that he was unable to complete anything he started.
        ''What I am, I suppose, is a slow writer, or perhaps a lazy writer,'' he wrote in a reissue of ''Red Sky.'' ''I try and would prefer to be a humorous writer.''
        Like the character Joshua Arnold in ''Red Sky,'' Mr. Bradford came to New Mexico from an upper-middle-class Southern family. His father, Roark Bradford, was a writer for newspapers and magazines, and wrote sketches of African-American life and folklore, many of which were collected into books and plays. His mother, Mary Rose Sciarra, was also a writer.
        He is survived by a son, Tom, of Tucson.
        Mr. Bradford graduated from Tulane University in 1952 and through the 1950's and 60's worked as a newspaper reporter and writer for the New Mexico state tourism agency. After he wrote his novels he made a living as a medical transcriber in local hospitals.
        During Mr. Bradford's childhood, his family bought a summer home in Santa Fe and eventually moved there. In ''Turn Left at the Sleeping Dog,'' an oral history of Santa Fe by John Pen La Farge published last year, Mr. Bradford told of his intense and immediate love for the desert of New Mexico.
        ''At age 12, within 15 minutes of coming here, I realized that I'd been making a terrible mistake living in large urban centers,'' he said. ''This was the place for me. I felt immediately at home: I have never felt so quickly, so comfortably, so deeply attracted.''
      