
        Wolfgang F. Stolper, an economist who more than 60 years ago inspired a theory about international trade that to this day helps to explain its effect on national economies, died on Sunday in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he lived. He was 89.
        The breakthrough insight, known as the Stolper-Samuelson theorem, came in 1941 when Mr. Stolper was a young instructor at Harvard and a colleague of Paul A. Samuelson. Mr. Samuelson was exploring trade theory, which held then that open trade benefited the economies of the trading nations and their work forces.
        That was when Mr. Stolper came to Mr. Samuelson with a caveat. Trade stimulates greater economic growth, Mr. Stolper agreed, but is not necessarily beneficial for all workers. As trade between countries rises, prices change, scarcity and abundance come into play, and the wages of some workers -- the abundant ones -- fall.
        ''Stolper came to me with this very important insight,'' Mr. Samuelson recalled yesterday, ''and I said: 'That is really important. It is not in the literature, and you should write it up.' ''
        ''I was the midwife for the Stolper-Samuelson theorem, which is Stolper-Samuelson, not Samuelson-Stolper,'' he added.
        Although trade theory has greatly evolved since the 1940's, the Stolper insight has remained an essential part.
        In contrast to Mr. Samuelson, a Nobel laureate, Mr. Stolper never again achieved another breakthrough in theory equal to the insight that has made his name so well known in his profession. He went on to specialize in developing-country economics, an interest that grew out of his research on East Germany and a book, ''The Structure of the East German Economy.''
        Mr. Stolper moved from Harvard to Swarthmore College in 1941 and to the University of Michigan in 1949, teaching economics there until he retired in 1983. Along with teaching, Mr. Stolper took on a parallel role as an adviser abroad, most notably in Nigeria. In the early 1960's, he served for a year as the chief economic adviser to the struggling government of that newly independent nation.
        Out of that experience came a book, ''Planning Without Facts.'' At his death, Mr. Stolper was preparing a memoir based on his Nigerian experiences, drawn from the letters he wrote almost daily to his wife, Martha Vögeli Stolper, who was in Ann Arbor.
        Wolfgang Frederich Stolper was born in Vienna on May 13, 1912. After World War I, the family moved to Bonn, where Mr. Stolper's father, Gustav, published a weekly economics journal, served one term in Parliament and introduced his son to the famous economist Joseph A. Schumpeter, who became the young man's mentor, not only in Germany but also later at Harvard. Mr. Stolper wrote a biography of his mentor, ''Joseph Alois Schumpeter,'' which was published in 1994.
        The Stolper family fled to the United States after Hitler rose to power in 1933. Entering Harvard as a graduate student, Mr. Stolper received a doctorate in economics in 1938. But economics was only one interest. An accomplished pianist, Mr. Stolper had two grand pianos in his Ann Arbor home and regularly invited guests to the house for chamber music concerts.
        His first wife died in 1972. He is survived by his second wife, Margot Kaufmann; two sons, Matthew W., of Chicago, and Thomas E., of New Haven; a brother, Max, of Alexandria, Va.; and a sister, Joan Campbell, of Toronto.
      