
        R. V. Cassill, the man of letters who was a novelist, short-story writer, editor, book reviewer and teacher of creative writing, died last Monday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 82 and lived in Providence and Truro, Mass.
        The author of 24 novels and 7 collections of short stories, Mr. Cassill began writing in his teens and published his first story, ''To the Clear Mountains,'' in a little magazine in 1939, when he was 19. Among his novels were ''Eagle on the Coin'' (1950), about racial equality; ''Clem Anderson'' (1961), about a failed writer; ''Dr. Cobb's Game'' (1970), about the Profumo sex scandals that rocked Britain in the early 1960's; and ''After Goliath'' (1985), about King David of the the Old Testament.
        Reviewing ''Dr. Cobb's Game'' in The New York Times, John Leonard wrote, ''R. V. Cassill's fiction has always been unclassifiable, as omnivorous and idiosyncratic as Mailer's, examining the relations between public life and private obsession, between the institution and the individual, between -- in this instance -- power and sex.''
        After 1985, Mr. Cassill gave up writing fiction because, as he told James White, one of his publishers, in an interview for the American Center for Artists Web site, ''I think it's a gift I've used up.''
        Mr. Cassill was equally respected as a short-story writer. Reviewing his 650-page ''Collected Stories'' for The Times Book Review in 1989, Frank Wilson wrote, ''Just about every story in this collection is a textbook example of what a piece of short fiction ought to be: immediately engaging, swiftly paced, economical.'' For his skill in this medium, Mr. Cassill was chosen to edit two widely used college textbooks, the Norton Anthology of Short Fiction (1977) and the Norton Anthology of Contemporary Fiction (2nd edition, 1989).
        But it was as a writing teacher that Mr. Cassill won some of his most devoted followers, many of whom were subsequently published. His textbook ''On Writing'' was widely used. In it he wrote: ''Writing is a way of coming to terms with the world and with oneself. The whole spirit of writing is to overcome narrowness and fear by giving order, measure, and significance to the flux of experience constantly dinning into our lives.''
        Ronald Verlin Cassill, known as Verlin by his friends, was born in Cedar Falls, Iowa, on May 17, 1919, one of four children of Howard, a school superintendent and principal, and Mary E. (Glosser) Cassill, a teacher. After graduating with a B.A. from the University of Iowa in 1939, he was in the United States Army from 1942 to 1946, serving in the South Pacific with the rank of first lieutenant.
        In 1946 he studied at the Art Institute of Chicago, and the following year he received an M.A. at Iowa. He taught at the university's Writers Workshop from 1948 to 1952 and then again from 1960 to 1966.
        In the interval he lived in Paris, where he studied art at the Sorbonne, and in New York City, where he mixed with writers like Norman Mailer and Vance Bourjaily, who were associated with the early days of The Village Voice. In 1956 he married Karilyn Kay Adams, a writer. (A previous marriage, to Kathleen Rosecranz, an artist, ended in divorce.) In 1966 he moved to Providence to become a professor at Brown University, where he stayed for the remainder of his career, being named professor emeritus in 1983.
        Over the years he also taught writing at Purdue, Columbia, the New School for Social Research and Harvard. His reviews and articles appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Chicago Sun Times, Book World, Esquire, The Atlantic and The Saturday Evening Post. He received a Guggenheim grant, a Rockefeller grant, a Fulbright Fellowship in Paris and an honorary masters degree from Brown University.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Orin E., of New York, and Jesse B., of San Diego, and a daughter, Erica Cassill Wood of Saline, Mich.; a brother, H. Carroll, of Cleveland; a sister, LaJean Holstein of Ellsworth, Me.; and seven grandchildren.
      