
        Roy Huggins, a producer and writer whose witty long-running television series helped the medium grow up in the 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Santa Monica, Calif, where he lived. He was 87.
        In a television career that spanned more than four decades, his hits included ''Maverick'' (1957-62), ''The Fugitive'' (1963-67) and ''The Rockford Files'' (1974-80).
        Mr. Huggins wrote about 350 scripts for television and film, many under the pseudonym John Thomas James, taken from the names of his three sons.
        ''One of television's great storytellers,'' in the words of Christopher Anderson, a television historian, Mr. Huggins invented characters who often lasted long after he stopped working on their series. Some of his shows, like ''Maverick'' and ''The Fugitive,'' had a second successful life on the movie screen.
        ''Maverick'' one of Mr. Huggins's most influential inventions, dealt with the exploits in the Old West of Bret Maverick, a gambler and con man played by James Garner, and his straitlaced brother Bart.
        ''Maverick'' was one of the so-called adult westerns, modeled on movies like ''High Noon,'' that replaced children's western fare like Hopalong Cassidy and ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the late 50's. ''Maverick'' scripts soon delved into comedy and began to parody ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Bonanza,'' its more sober competitors.
        Mr. Garner, who became a star in ''Maverick,'' also appeared in the successful 1994 film adaptation, written by William Goldman, and in a later television hit, ''The Rockford Files,'' on which Mr. Huggins worked with Stephen J. Cannell.
        Roy Huggins was born in Litelle, Wash., on July 18, 1914. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of California at Los Angeles and began work on a Ph.D. in political science, but his studies were interrupted by World War II. As a civilian employee in wartime government, he taught himself to write gripping and literate drama by copying in longhand Raymond Chandler's ''Farewell, My Lovely.''
        His first novel, ''The Doubletake'' (1946), which established him as a writer of style and commercial appeal, was serialized in The Saturday Evening Post.
        After his discharge, Mr. Huggins was hired by Columbia Pictures as a writer and director of feature films. He directed his own script, ''Hangman's Knot,'' a western starring Randolph Scott and Donna Reed, in 1952.
        With the rise of television, Mr. Huggins joined Warner Brothers in the company's earliest efforts in the new medium, including ''Cheyenne.'' He also made a number of successful detective series. He created, for instance, ''77 Sunset Strip,'' which starred Efrem Zimbalist Jr. as a cool-school California gumshoe.
        In 1962 Mr. Huggins moved to Universal Television, where he remained for the next 15 years.
        He was the creative force behind many more series, including ''Run for Your Life,'' starring Ben Gazzara as a man doomed to die from an unnamed illness within two years. The character spends the time he has left searching for the meaning of life from week to week and town to town. The improbably gloomy premise resulted in a hit that ran from 1965 to 1968, long outlasting the original death sentence.
        Mr. Huggins's association with Universal ended in 1980, when he turned to producing mini-series.
        Mr. Huggins is survived by his wife, the former actress Adele Mara; his sons Thomas, John and James, all of Los Angeles; his children from an earlier marriage, Katherine Huggins Price and Bret Huggins, both of Los Angeles; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        In 1961, writing for 20th Century Fox, Mr. Huggins was plunged into controversy. He had created a prime-time television series called ''Bus Stop,'' modeled after William Inge's Broadway hit of the same title.
        In the series, a bus stop served as the way station at which various down-and-out characters told of their mostly stunted lives. One episode, ''A Lion Walks Among Us,'' dealt with a psychopathic murderer, played by the pop star Fabian.
        At the time, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Newton Minow, was complaining that television had become a ''vast wasteland,'' and his words echoed from pulpits and newspapers across the country. The ''Bus Stop'' episode came in for special criticism, and Mr. Huggins was promptly sidelined by Fox.
        He wrote a rebuttal to Mr. Minow that appeared in Television Quarterly. Mr. Minow, he wrote, was an elitist.
        ''The public arts,'' Mr. Huggins said, ''are created for a mass audience and for a profit; that is their essential nature. But they can at times achieve truth and beauty, and given freedom they will achieve it more and more often.''
      