
        Dr. Burton I. Edelson, a leader in satellite communications who helped start and oversee some of NASA's most popular science programs, died Jan. 6 in New York, where he was visiting family and friends. He was 75 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son Daniel.
        In 1982, President Ronald Reagan appointed Dr. Edelson associate administrator for space science and applications at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. In that post he played a central role in beginning and directing several programs, including the Hubble Space Telescope and Mars exploration missions.
        ''When he came to NASA, the space science budget was at a low,'' said Neil Helm, deputy director of George Washington University's Institute for Applied Space Research, which Dr. Edelson founded after retiring from NASA in 1987. ''But he managed to increase the budget significantly, and established a number of programs that helped reinvigorate space science at NASA.
        ''There had been some talk about the Hubble telescope project at NASA before he got there, but he was the one that really got it going.''
        Dr. Edelson supported international cooperation on space research and communications throughout his career and, while at NASA, worked on a number of technical collaborations with the Soviet Union, Japan and Europe. In the early 1980's, he was a driving force behind the Halley's Comet Intercept, a multinational effort to study the comet.
        In addition, he managed the Cosmic Background Explorer satellite program, which gained the world's attention in 1992 when it began measuring background radiation from the Big Bang.
        He also oversaw the Advanced Communications Technology Satellite, which among other tasks is used to link doctors to distant settings so they can perform remote medical procedures.
        After retiring from NASA, Dr. Edelson directed research and development projects in satellite communications at George Washington University until his death.
        Burton Irving Edelson was born in New York, graduated from the United States Naval Academy, where he studied engineering, and became interested in satellite communications while at the Navy's research laboratory in Washington in the 1950's. He received his master's degree at Yale in 1954 and his doctorate there in 1960; both degrees were in metallurgy.
        In 1967, he became deputy director of Comsat Laboratories, created that year with a Congressional charter to perform research and development in support of a global satellite system. At Comsat he led a program that helped develop some of the first satellites to be used for commercial communication. He became director in 1972.
        Dr. Edelson wrote more than 75 scholarly articles in technical publications and won several major awards, including the Navy Legion of Merit in 1965, Yale's Wilbur Cross Medal in 1984 and the NASA Exceptional Service Medal in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Betty Good Edelson; three sons, Stephen, of San Francisco, John, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Daniel, of Evanston, Ill.; and five grandchildren.
      