
        Charles Segal, a Harvard classi cist who brought a modern literary  critic's approach to the study of  Greek and Latin poetry, died on Jan.  1 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, the univer sity said.
        In a scholarly career spanning al most four decades, Professor Segal,  who held the Walter C. Klein chair of  classics at Harvard from 1996 until  his death, sought to apply many of  the techniques of contemporary lit erary criticism to the classics.
        His scholarship ranged across vir tually the whole of Greek and Latin  poetry. ''There is hardly a Greek or  Roman poet about whom he had not  thought deeply and to good effect,''  said Richard Thomas, the chairman  of Harvard's classics department.
        When many classicists still felt  their primary duty was to perfect  ancient texts, Professor Segal tried  to bring modern techniques of liter ary analysis to bear on the classics,  particularly by placing them in their  social and historical contexts.
        He was influenced at various times  in his career by several critical theo ries, including the postwar French  structuralist school, as well as by  attempts to apply the principals of  psychoanalysis and anthropology to  the interpretation of literature.
        Professor Segal was a prolific  writer, and many of his books were  translated into foreign languages.  Among his best-known works are  ''Tragedy and Civilization: An Inter pretation of Sophocles,'' ''Poetry and  Myth in Ancient Pastoral'' and ''Pin dar's Mythmaking.''
        Professor Segal was born in Bos ton on March 19, 1936. He graduated  from Boston Latin School and from  Harvard, where he also received his  doctorate. He taught classics at the  University of Pennsylvania from  1964 to 1967, at Brown from 1968 to  1986 and at Princeton from 1987 to  1990 before joining Harvard in 1990.
        He held visiting professorships at  Columbia and Brandeis, the Univer sity of Melbourne and the École des  Hautes Études and the École Nor male Supérieure in Paris.
        He also held fellowships from the  Fulbright and Guggenheim Founda tions and from the National Endow ment for the Humanities.
        He is survived by his second wife,  Nancy Jones Segal; their daughter,  Cora, of Cambridge, Mass.; and two  sons from his first marriage, Joshua,  of Santa Rosa, Calif., and Thaddeus,  of Alexandria, Va.
      