
        Frank Tovey, an innovative English musician who recorded electronic and industrial music in the 1980's using the name Fad Gadget, died on April 3 at his home in London. He was 46.
        The cause was a heart ailment, said Roberta Moore, a spokeswoman at his record label, Mute. Mr. Tovey had had chronic heart problems since his childhood.
        Mr. Tovey was born in London. Influenced by Lou Reed, Iggy Pop and Marc Bolan, he formed his first band in high school.
        He attended St. Martin's School of Art and then studied performance art at Leeds Polytechnic. He returned to London, where he lived with the artist known as Savage Pencil.
        There, he began to make music on a drum machine and an electronic piano. At the time, across Britain, punk rock was being subverted by electronic-instrument-wielding art school students into an experimental pop that was both more macabre and more romantic.
        Acts like Cabaret Voltaire, Human League and Depeche Mode (whose music he influenced) were beginning to emerge, and Mr. Tovey soon joined their ranks in 1979 when he was the first artist signed to the innovative independent label Mute.
        Using the name Fad Gadget, he released four albums, which were marked by dark electronic funk topped by Mr. Tovey's distinct British accent.
        Half speaking and half singing, he delivered wry editorials on politics, society and love, painting a dark dystopia fueled by technology.
        ''A view from my window/A motorway intersection,'' he sang on his breakthrough album, ''Under the Flag.'' ''Exhaust pipes at pram level/Now playgrounds are carparks.''
        In 1981 he recorded an album with the industrial-music noisemaker Boyd Rice, which was released years later as ''Easy Listening for the Hard of Hearing.''
        Mr. Tovey's performances were often highly intense and theatrical. He tore the ligaments in both of his legs diving into the audience at one show; at another concert, he swung his microphone around his neck, and it hit him in the face, cutting open his nose and blackening his eyes. After a show in 1980, he was taken to an emergency room after cutting his head open while using it to play an electronic drum.
        In 1985 Mr. Tovey began to record for Mute using his own name, making an effort for the first time to learn how to play acoustic instruments.
        After an industrial-dance side project, MKultra, he took a new approach to his condemnation of industrialization by rounding up a mostly acoustic band for 1989's ''Tyranny and the Hired Hand,'' a collection of new and old protest and labor songs like ''Joe Hill'' and ''Sixteen Tons.''
        Recruiting a backing band called the Pyros, with Paul Rodden on electric banjo, he tried his own hand at such material with a wry, rootsy look at postwar, post-yuppie England on ''Grand Union'' two years later.
        In 1993 Mr. Tovey and the Pyros released ''Worried Men in Secondhand Suits'' and then took a long hiatus.
        He recently re-emerged, performing at festivals and touring Europe with Depeche Mode. He was working on a new album at the time of his death.
      