
        Richard H. Hadley, a real estate developer in the Pacific Northwest and Hawaii who bought the ocean liner United States -- one of the biggest, fastest ships -- as a potential floating condominium complex, died March 19 in Honolulu. He was 80.
        His wife, Barbara, said he collapsed two days before his death, which was attributed to either a blood clot or arrhythmia. He lived in Arlington, Wash., and directed his real estate empire from offices in Seattle and Honolulu.
        In 1978, Mr. Hadley bought the United States, which set the trans-Atlantic speed record for ocean liners -- 35 knots, or 40 miles an hour -- on its first voyage in 1952 and then surpassed it many times over shorter distances. Mr. Hadley, a weekend sailor, intended to sell 15 percent of its cabins as shares in a ''cruising society.''
        He paid $5 million for one of the last Atlantic liners, built 26 years earlier at a cost of $79 million. Built to secret military specifications so it could be quickly converted to a troop transport ship, the United States had been laid up since 1969, as jet travel siphoned off ocean liner customers.
        Members of Mr. Hadley's ''cruising society'' were to get preferential reservations on two-week cruises, at a 60 percent discount, for 20 years. Fares were projected to exceed $200 a day.
        Mr. Hadley wanted to turn the ship into a grand vehicle for warm-weather travel rather than routine Atlantic crossings.
        He planned a ''supership'' with seven dining rooms, three swimming pools and a full-size tennis court. He planned to paint it in red, white and blue stripes with a painted eagle as a masthead. Cabins were to be 35 to 50 percent larger than those of standard cruise ships.
        But his dreams were never realized. The rebuilding cost rose to $200 million from $125 million, and the United States Maritime Administration turned down his request for $152.3 million in loan guarantees. Meanwhile, the great vessel rusted at a pier in Newport News, Va.
        In 1984, Mr. Hadley said, a financing package involving Chase Manhattan Bank, two German banks and a German shipyard fell through. He then auctioned off virtually everything on the ship that was not fastened down, from telegraphs to teapots. The first-class ballroom bar and the 400-pound ship's bell were purchased by a restaurateur in North Carolina.
        ''It was like seeing the plunder of a pharaoh's tomb,'' said Robert Hudson Westover, chairman of the S.S. United States Foundation, which was formed in 1997 to preserve the ship.
        The foundation succeeded in having the ship placed on the Interior Department's Register of Historic Places in 1999, a designation that does not protect the ship from sale or destruction. Against the opposition of the current owner, the foundation is lobbying for national monument status, which would safeguard it.
        Eventually, Mr. Hadley failed to pay the rent for the pier, while the ship's mortgage holder demanded $5.7 million of principal and interest. Federal marshals seized the ship, and Mr. Hadley averted an immediate auction to satisfy creditors by filing for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11.
        In 1992, the federal government sold the ship to a group headed by Edward A. Cantor of Linden, N.J., for $2.6 million. It was taken to Istanbul, where asbestos was removed, and since 1996 has rested at a pier in Philadelphia.
        Robert Fair, an associate of Mr. Cantor's, who died at 74 on Feb. 19, said the group was negotiating with several possible buyers.
        Richard Homer Hadley was born in Seattle on Aug. 2, 1921. His father, Homer, was a pioneer in building floating bridges, and Richard Hadley graduated from the University of Washington with a degree in civil and mechanical engineering.
        He flew with the Army Air Corps in Europe during World War II. After a year in Paris on a Rotary Club fellowship, he completed a master's degree in structural engineering and a doctorate in business. He first worked with his father.
        Among his developments were hotels, office parks, residential condominium complexes and commercial buildings in Hawaii, and major buildings in Seattle like the Westin and United Air Lines buildings, as well as the Warwick Hotel.
        But his wife said Mr. Hadley had put his heart and soul into the United States project. ''It was his dream,'' she said.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Robert, of Seattle, and Scott, of Galveston, Tex.; his daughters, Lisa Ann Colmenares, of Los Angeles, and Alisa Gail Scharnickel, of Arlington, Wash.; and six grandsons.
        Correction:  April 20, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Monday about Richard H. Hadley, the real estate developer who tried to turn the ocean liner United States into a floating resort, incorrectly described its ownership after Mr. Hadley filed for bankruptcy. The ship was sold at auction to satisfy creditors, not by the federal government. The buyers were Fred Mayer and a Turkish partner, not Edward A. Cantor, who became a third partner and eventually acquired sole ownership.
      