
        Adrian Evans, the chief executive of the London partnership of Lazard L.L.C., died Sunday morning of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the bank said today. He was 60.
        Better known for his skill as a manager than as a deal maker, Mr. Evan's steely charm helped steer the investment bank through the fractious period that resulted in the 1999 merger of the London, New York and Paris offices. He was named chief operating officer of Lazard's worldwide operations late last year, after the resignation of the chief executive, William Loomis.
        Deborah Done, a Lazard spokeswoman, declined to say who would succeed Mr. Evans.
        His death comes at time of upheaval for Lazard. A string of high-level departures has coincided with a sharp decline in investment banking fees.
        Recognizing the need for drastic change, Michel David-Weill, the chairman who has run Lazard for a quarter of a century, ceded many of his management responsibilities to Bruce Wasserstein, who in January joined the firm as chief executive. Mr. Wasserstein has since begun the process of issuing equity to partners and has recruited some big names from rival firms, including Charles Ward, the former co-head of investment banking at Credit Suisse First Boston.
        Colleagues said Mr. Evans's knack for keeping the firm running in a business-as-usual fashion, even during the recent upheaval, would be missed.
        Born Laurence Adrian Waring Evans, he graduated from Cambridge University with a degree in history in 1963. Mr. Evans then made his name in corporate banking, first in the New York and Dublin offices of Citibank and then at the First National Finance Corporation unit of Abbey National. Later, he spent two years in India with Grindlays Bank, now part of Standard Chartered.
        David Verey, the former chairman of Lazard's London office, hand-picked Mr. Evans in 1991, and charged him with reinvigorating the lagging corporate banking division of the firm.
        As corporate banking eventually took a back seat to investment banking at Lazard, Mr. Evans began to oversee a wider range of operations. He was named secretary to Lazard's executive committee when it was created in 1999, and served as a director to numerous Lazard affiliates.
        As someone who was more comfortable behind the scenes than in the limelight, Mr. Evans, in many ways, typified the reserve that is the hallmark of the old-style world of British merchant banking.
        Mr. Evans is survived by his wife, Ingela; two daughters, Laura and Kate, and two stepsons.
      