
        Cyrus R. Vance, who after two decades in public service was appointed secretary of state, and who then took the rare step of resigning from the nation's highest cabinet post on a matter of principle, died Saturday afternoon at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. He was 84.
        The cause was pneumonia and other complications, said Elva Murphy, his longtime secretary.
        Mr. Vance was secretary of state from 1977 until 1980, when he resigned in protest over President Jimmy Carter's decision to try a military rescue of American hostages in Iran, an action that he considered ill advised and futile. He was soon proved right.
        After more than 20 years in and out of government, during which he served several presidents, Mr. Vance submitted his resignation with what he called ''a heavy heart.'' His doubts that the elaborate rescue would succeed, and his fears that it would sabotage diplomatic efforts to free the 52 American hostages, brought him to what he called ''one of the most painful days of my life.''
        His opposition to the rescue mission was the immediate cause of his resignation, but he had already come to see that Mr. Carter was increasingly rejecting his advice in favor of that of his national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski.
        As it turned, out the rescue attempt failed. Of the eight American helicopters sent on the mission, three broke down in the first stage of the operation. It was decided to abandon the mission, but there was more humiliation ahead for the United States. One of the remaining helicopters collided on the ground with a transport plane and both craft burned. Eight servicemen died in the fire and the rest fled.
        The failed mission became an issue in the 1980 political campaign in which Mr. Carter was defeated by Ronald Reagan. The hostages were not released until the day of Mr. Reagan's inauguration, 444 days after they were taken captive.
        Mr. Vance said in 1999 that he had watched from the sidelines with ''frustration and sadness'' as relations between the United States and Iran ''plunged into increasing hostility, mistrust, name calling and mutual recrimination.'' In an address at the Asia Society, Mr. Vance called for the re-establishment of diplomatic relations with Iran.
        Mr. Vance -- who had decided to leave office whether the rescue succeeded or failed -- was only the second secretary of state in the history of the United States to resign on a matter of principle, joining what another secretary of state, Dean Acheson, called ''the most exclusive club in America.'' William Jennings Bryan, the only other secretary of state to resign, was a pacifist who resigned in 1915 over policies by Woodrow Wilson that he thought might lead to war.
        An Obligation to Serve
        That Mr. Vance allowed principle to get in the way of his career came as no surprise to the people who knew him best. To them, Cyrus Vance, the tall, lanky, patrician lawyer with the open face of a prep school boy was Mr. Integrity, Mr. Honesty. He was the epitome of the American establishment, that small group of men who moved seamlessly from the prep schools of New England and the Ivy League colleges of the East to the law firms of Wall Street, with time out for service in government. Then they would return again to private practice, bringing with them the old values of family, work and public service.
        After his return to private practice, Mr. Vance was repeatedly called back to the public arena to use his quiet negotiating skills on some of the most violent conflicts of the 1980's and 1990's: in the Nagorno-Karabakh dispute between Azerbaijan and Armenia; in South Africa; and in a disintegrating Yugoslavia. There, he successfully negotiated a cease-fire in Croatia to allow a United Nations peacekeeping force to enter and disarm warring militias.
        In accepting one assignment after another, Mr. Vance was only doing what he believed was expected of him. He said, ''A lot of us were raised in families where we were taught that we were very fortunate, that we were going to have a good education, and that we had the responsibility to return to the community some of the benefits and blessings we had, and that there was an obligation to participate in government service at the local, state and national level.''
        This, in a nutshell, was the un-self-conscious voice of the establishment -- the one that Jimmy Carter ran against so vigorously that his campaign manager, Hamilton Jordan, once said: ''If, after the inauguration, you find a Cy Vance as secretary of state and Zbigniew Brzezinski as head of national security, then I would say we failed. And I'd quit.''
        Mr. Vance was Mr. Carter's first appointee, followed soon after by Mr. Brzezinski.  Mr. Jordan did not quit.
        In both his personal approach to the job and his overall philosophy, Mr. Vance presented a striking contrast to his flamboyant predecessor, Henry A. Kissinger. A calm, publicity-shy diplomat who was more a mediator than a policy maker, Mr. Vance was one of the most modest and unpretentious men ever to hold the post. He was a popular figure around the State Department as he loped through the hallways in his pinstripes or tweeds, occasionally rumpled but always well tailored.
        When he took office, Mr. Vance vowed to limit his travel abroad and eschew Mr. Kissinger's shuttle diplomacy -- a pledge that quickly fell by the wayside. But while he adopted some of Mr. Kissinger's tactics, he harbored doubts about his strategy. Mr. Vance was deeply skeptical that any master plan could provide answers for individual foreign policy problems. He did not think in terms of a Soviet grand design to encircle  and undo the West any more than he thought about a grand design for American foreign policy. His method was ''to slog it out,'' putting together solutions to individual problems.
        Prof. Norman A. Graebner, a historian of American diplomacy at the University of Virginia, said, ''The general attitude toward the acceptance of the Soviet position in the world and the fact that revolutionary pressures in the third world were genuine and that it was America's task to live with those realities was most pronounced during those first Carter years.''
        The president and his secretary of state pursued a moderate course, characterized by the strategic arms negotiations, the Panama Canal Treaties, the normalization of relations with China and the settlement that brought majority rule to Zimbabwe, the former British colony that had been known as Rhodesia. During the historic talks at Camp David in 1979, Mr. Vance developed an effective working relationship with two of the Israeli negotiators, Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan and Defense Minister Ezer Weizman. It became crucial in working out the landmark agreement that established peace between Egypt and Israel.
        Mr. Vance shared with Mr. Carter the conviction that the advancement of human rights around the world was in America's national interest. And from his years in the Pentagon, Mr. Vance knew the limits of the use of military force to solve nonmilitary problems. He was secretary of the Army in 1962 when the Army was called in to open the doors of the University of Mississippi to blacks. The walkie-talkies failed, providing a lesson that he still carried years later when he heard of the plan to rescue the hostages in Tehran. If a problem like that could occur in Mississippi, he wondered how a complicated mission in a country in the throes of revolution half a world away could succeed.
        But the Carter administration had been rocked by a series of events in 1979: the fall of the shah of Iran, the appearance of a Soviet brigade in Cuba, the fall of the Somoza regime in Nicaragua, the taking of American hostages in Tehran and, finally, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. ''All these were attributed to a failure of will and courage on the part of President Carter,'' Professor Graebner said, and that is when Mr. Carter ''went ideological with behavior that became extremely appealing to the right wing. The effort to rescue the hostages was part of that, and at that point, Vance found himself increasingly on the outside looking in.''
        To Mr. Brzezinski, Mr. Vance was not hardheaded enough about world realities. In his book ''Power and Principle,'' Mr. Brzezinski wrote that Mr. Vance, ''as a member of both the legal profession and the once-dominant WASP elite, operated according to their values and rules, but those values and rules were of declining relevance not only in terms of domestic American politics but particularly in terms of global conditions.''
        Paul C. Warnke, an admirer of Mr. Vance's who served as his chief arms control adviser, said Mr. Vance suffered from the vice of his own virtue. ''He thought he could work with Zbig,'' Mr. Warnke said.  ''But Zbig not only used guerrilla tactics, he was in closer proximity to the president.''
        The Hard Choice to Leave
        Mr. Vance was always circumspect about his relationship with Mr. Brzezinski, but years later, in an interview for this article, he reluctantly acknowledged that he had  probably been mistaken when he agreed to Mr. Brzezinski's appointment. ''I had some reservations about him,'' he said, ''but I knew the president wanted him very badly. I now realize my instinctive feeling on that was right.''
        When Mr. Carter gave the order to rescue the hostages in Iran, it was clear that Mr. Brzezinski had won the contest, and Mr. Vance decided to resign. He recorded some of this story in his 1983 book, ''Hard Choices.''
        His son, Cyrus Vance Jr., said on Saturday that the family was proud of him when he stepped down, because he had acted on his principles. ''I don't think he ever failed to follow those principles in his entire professional life,'' he said.
        Mr. Vance came to the Carter cabinet with impeccable credentials. In 1957, Lyndon B. Johnson, then the majority leader of the Senate, asked Mr. Vance, then 40 years old, to leave his Wall Street law firm to serve as counsel for a Senate armed services subcommittee on preparedness. The Soviet Union had launched the world's first man-made satellite, Sputnik, and the United States was trying to catch up in the race for space. Mr. Johnson was to call on Mr. Vance repeatedly; the younger man helped draft the act establishing the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1958, and served as counsel for Senate investigations of missile and space satellite programs and Defense Department budgeting.
        Mr. Vance knew the Pentagon inside and out when Robert S. McNamara, John F. Kennedy's secretary of defense, asked him to come to work. He rose from general counsel in 1961 to secretary of the Army and finally to deputy secretary of defense in charge of running the Pentagon. He helped Mr. McNamara impose a reorganization of defense management practices intended to make the services work with one another.
        President Johnson sent him to Panama as part of a peacemaking team in 1964, after student riots in the Canal Zone had been put down at a cost of 27 lives. Almost 15 years later, Mr. Vance presided over the successful negotiations and Senate ratification of the Panama Canal Treaties, under which the United States agreed to cede control of the canal to Panama by 2000.
        By 1967, a painful back ailment forced Mr. Vance back into civilian life, but he was repeatedly called back for delicate assignments. Mr. McNamara asked him to go to Detroit when riots broke out there in 1967. Although Mr. Vance was criticized in some quarters for being slow to call in federal troops, he won praise from black leaders for easing the crisis.
        That same year, Mr. Vance was credited with forestalling a war between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus. ''Cyrus Settles Cyprus'' was the headline carried in The Economist. In 1968 President Johnson sent Mr. Vance to South Korea to reassure President Park Chung Hee of Washington's support after North Korea had breached the armistice agreement and seized the Pueblo, an American intelligence-gathering ship.
        Although Mr. Vance was not one of the formulators of the Johnson administration's policies in Vietnam, he had supported the war effort. But in 1968, as a member of the group of so-called Wise Men assembled to review the war effort, he joined others to call for an end to the bombing and a negotiated settlement.
        He was sent to Paris in 1968 as deputy to W. Averell Harriman, the chief United States negotiator, who was trying to work out a settlement with the North Vietnamese. Mr. Vance was forced to devote much of his time to such fine points as the shape of the negotiating table. When the furniture was finally arranged, however, South Vietnam, encouraged to expect a Republican victory in the election and a better deal from Richard M. Nixon, refused to negotiate. ''In my mind,'' Mr. Vance recorded in an oral history for the Lyndon B. Johnson Library, ''this was one of the great tragedies in history, that the South Vietnamese double-crossed the United States, which I clearly feel they did.''
        That kind of language was uncharacteristically strong for him. Outwardly he was so mild that he was once called ''a man who leaves no footprints.'' Because of that reputation, he surprised his State Department colleagues with the force of his advocacy and the clarity of his goals, chiefly to bring the nuclear menace under control and to improve relations with the Soviet Union.
        He fought when he had to, as he did early on as secretary of state when he vigorously supported the appointment of Mr. Warnke to head the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. He knew Mr. Warnke would be opposed by Senator Henry Jackson of Washington and other hard-liners, but he believed the agency needed to be led by a firm advocate of arms control. ''He went to the wall for Paul,'' one former State Department official said. He won.
        An Early Interest in Law
        Cyrus Roberts Vance was born in Clarksburg, W. Va., on March 27, 1917, the second son of John Carl and Amy Roberts Vance. His father was an insurance broker and landowner who worked in a government agency during World War I. His mother came from a Philadelphia Main Line family and was active in civic affairs.
        Cyrus was only 5 years old when his father died. In the ensuing years, the boy developed an exceptionally close relationship with his first cousin, best friend and mentor, John W. Davis, who had been a member of Congress, ambassador to Britain and Democratic candidate for president in 1924. It was through Mr. Davis that Mr. Vance said he developed an early interest in the law.
        As a student at the Kent School in Connecticut, Cyrus served as senior prefect, played football and hockey, and rowed on the 1934 crew that made the Henley Regatta. He went on to Yale, where he found among his classmates R. Sargent Shriver, William Scranton, Stanley Resor and William Bundy. He would serve in government with all of them.
        At Yale he was remembered as a hard-working and conscientious economics major. He received a bachelor's degree in 1939 and graduated from Yale Law School with honors in 1942. In later years he was to win more than a dozen honorary degrees, and in 1969 President Johnson bestowed on him the Medal of Freedom, the government's top civilian award.
        Mr. Vance served in the Navy during World War II and saw action on destroyers at Bougainville, Tarawa, the Philippines, Saipan and Guam. He was discharged in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant, senior grade. After a year at the Mead Corporation, he was admitted to the New York bar in 1947 and joined Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, where he was to remain for his entire legal career.
        On Feb. 15, 1947, he married Grace Elsie Sloane, a Bryn Mawr graduate and daughter of the board chairman of the W. & J. Sloane furniture company. Mr. Vance is survived by his wife, their five children,  Cyrus R. Jr., Elsie, Amy, and twins, Grace Roberts and Camilla; and by two grandchildren, Simon and Clare. His funeral will be held at 11 a.m. on Saturday at Heavenly Rest Church, on Fifth Avenue and 90th Street in Manhattan.
        Over the years Mr. Vance served on the boards of directors of corporations, among them I.B.M., Pan American Airways, Manufacturers Hanover Trust, U.S. Steel and The New York Times.
        He also served as a trustee of the New York Presbyterian Hospital, the Yale Urban Institute and the Yale Corporation, and was chairman of the board of the Rockefeller Foundation. He was vice chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations until 1987, and a member of the United Nations Association and the Trilateral Commission. From 1970 to 1972, he served on a committee to investigate police corruption in New York City, and in 1987 he was named to the New York Commission on Government Integrity, established to investigate corruption at all levels of government in the state. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Vance was chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
        As president of the New York City Bar Association in 1975 and 1976, he made a stubborn but not too successful effort to persuade the lawyers to devote Saturdays to providing the city's needy with free legal advice.
        To those, like Mr. Brzezinski, who referred occasionally to the ''once-dominant WASP elite,'' Mr. Vance said: ''The establishment is still alive and reasonably healthy. I think you'll find the establishment, with its moral force and integrity, will be playing a larger role in the future.''
        Mr. Vance never dwelled on his own legacy, but when asked at 70 how he wanted to be remembered, he said, ''I hope for being a reasonably decent, honest person who tried to do some things for the country that might have lasting effect and create a better life for a large number of people.''
        Correction:  January 26, 2002, Saturday  The obituary of former Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance on Jan. 14 (and in late editions on Jan. 13) misstated the rarity of resignations from that post over matters of principle. Historians generally agree that there were three, not two. Besides Mr. Vance, who objected in 1980 to the attempt at a military rescue of American hostages in Iran, and William Jennings Bryan (1915), over policies he felt might lead the country to war, Lewis Cass resigned in 1860 because he considered President James Buchanan weak on secessionists.
      