
        Damon Knight, a prolific science fiction writer and editor whose wry humor found its biggest audience in ''To Serve Man,'' a short story that was adapted into a beloved episode of ''The Twilight Zone,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Eugene, Ore., his family said. He was 79 and lived in Eugene.
        Mr. Knight was part of the first wave of literary-minded science fiction writers. Born in Baker, Ore., he moved to New York in the early 1940's and joined a group of budding writers called the Futurians. Their ranks included Isaac Asimov, Donald A. Wollheim and Frederick Pohl, who went on to be some of the most influential writers and editors in the field. Mr. Knight's memoir of the group, ''The Futurians,'' was published in 1977.
        In his writing, Mr. Knight played with the standard themes of science fiction: aliens, apocalyptic wars, robots and space. But his work stood out for its sharp wit.
        ''To Serve Man,'' first published in 1950 and faithfully adapted for ''The Twilight Zone'' in 1962, is a perfectly representative Damon Knight story, full of dark humor and wordplay. In it, a race of giant aliens appears on earth and promises to end hunger and war. But soon the aliens' guidebook, ''To Serve Man,'' is decoded, and found to be a cookbook -- the aliens mean to ''serve'' humans as food.
        The twist in the story's tail was ideal for ''The Twilight Zone,'' and the episode's closing scene, in which the aliens' cookbook stratagem is breathlessly revealed, is one of early television's classic moments.
        ''Not With a Bang,'' another story from 1950, is an Adam-and-Eve tale about the last man and woman alive after a war. While in the bathroom, the man has a heart attack and dies with the realization that the woman will never save him -- she's too prudish to intrude.
        Mr. Knight wrote 11 novels, often with elaborate concepts. His most recent, ''Humpty Dumpty: An Oval'' (Tor/Tom Doherty, 1996), has been interpreted as the last thoughts of a man who has just been shot in the head.
        He also edited many science fiction anthologies and publications, including Orbit, the original anthology series that ran from 1966 to 1980.
        Mr. Knight and his second wife, Kate Wilhelm, who is also a writer of science fiction and fantasy novels, taught for 27 years at the Clarion Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers' Workshop, originally at Clarion State College in Pennsylvania and now at Michigan State University in East Lansing.
        Mr. Knight published his last book on the Internet, in 2000, an art history work called ''Will the Real Hieronymus Bosch Please Stand Up?'' (http://fictionwise.com/knight/).
        In addition to Ms. Wilhelm and their son, Jonathan Knight of Eugene, he is survived by three children from a previous marriage, Valerie Knight of Eugene, Christopher Knight of Los Angeles, and Leslie Knight of Portland, Ore.; two stepsons; and four grandchildren.
      