
        Walter S. Wurzburger, an Orthodox rabbi who was a leader in theological dialogue with thinkers in other branches of Judaism and with Christians, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y.
        Rabbi Wurzburger, trained as both a rabbi and a philosopher, also taught philosophy at Yeshiva University from 1967 until last month, when he had to stop teaching because of heart problems, according to his son, Myron. He was also the longtime editor of a quarterly Orthodox intellectual journal, Tradition.
        Orthodox Judaism is divided into different camps, with traditional elements who remove themselves from contemporary society and others who engage the larger world. Rabbi Wurzburger was unapologetically in the modern Orthodox camp.
        Orthodox Judaism, he once said, is not an ''obsolete relic.'' While he said that he had great reverence for scholarship of the ultra-Orthodox, he made it clear that Orthodox Judaism must step down from its ''spiritual ivory tower'' and become ''conversant with modern culture.''
        He was president of the Rabbinical Council of America, a major Orthodox group, as well as of the Synagogue Council of America, now defunct, an organization that embraced the three major Jewish branches: Orthodox, Conservative and Reform. He was also a member of the major Jewish group that is in continuing dialogue with the Vatican, the International Jewish Committee on Interreligious Consultations.
        Rabbi Wurzburger was born in Munich in 1920 and fled to the United States in 1938, shortly after Kristallnacht, the sweeping attacks against Jews in Germany incited by the Nazis. He got a bachelor's degree at Yeshiva University, was ordained there and got a master's and a doctorate in philosophy from Harvard.
        He took his first pulpit, in the Boston area, in 1944, and later held posts in Canada and on Long Island. He retired from Congregation Shaaray Tefila in Lawrence in 1994.
        Rabbi Wurzburger edited Tradition from 1962 to 1988. He was a co-editor with Rabbi Norman Lamm, president of Yeshiva University, of ''A Treasury of Tradition'' (Hebrew Publishing, 1967). He also wrote ''Ethics of Responsibility: Pluralistic Approaches to Covenantal Ethics'' (Jewish Publication Society, 1994) and a book about belief, ''God is Proof Enough.'' (Devora Publishing, 2000)
        Rabbi Wurzburger is survived by his wife of 55 years, Naomi; three sons, Dr. Benjamin of Jerusalem, Myron of Hewlett, N.Y., and Joshua of Manhattan; and one grandchild.
      