
        James S. Martin Jr., the aeronautical engineer who oversaw the twin missions that produced the first maps and close-up pictures of Mars, died on Sunday in Rising Sun, the small town in far northeastern Maryland where he lived. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said the Langley Research Center, the NASA complex in Hampton, Va., where a quarter-century ago Mr. Martin was project manager for Viking 1 and Viking 2.
        Those two spacecraft, each consisting of an orbiter and a lander, were launched three weeks apart in late summer of 1975. The orbiters sent the first global maps of Mars back to Earth the following year, and the landers made the first successful soft touchdowns by spacecraft on another planet.
        Viking 1 functioned from Mars for six and a half years before falling silent, far longer than expected, and Viking 2 for three and a half years. Their success set the stage for further Mars missions, including those of Pathfinder, Sojourner, Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Odyssey.
        James Slattin Martin Jr. was born in Washington and in 1942 graduated from the University of Michigan in aeronautical engineering.
        After graduation, he worked for more than 20 years at the Republic Aviation Corporation, where he moved up from assistant chief technical engineer to chief research engineer and finally to manager of space systems requirements.
        He left for the Langley center in 1964, recruited as assistant manager for the Lunar Orbiter project. He was part of five successful orbiter missions that provided significant new data about the Moon's surface, as well as a wealth of photographic detail that for years remained the definitive source of lunar surface information. For his performance in that program, Mr. Martin was awarded NASA's Exceptional Service Medal in 1967.
        After leaving the space agency in 1976, he was vice president for advanced programs and planning at Marietta Aerospace. NASA coaxed him out of retirement for a time in 2000 to supervise an overhaul of its Mars Exploration Program.
        Mr. Martin is survived by his wife of 45 years, Frieda Rexroth Martin; a son, Neil, of Crofton, Md.; a daughter, Lori M. Stamm of Baltimore; a sister, Dr. Ann Pearson of Springfield, Ill.; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      