
        Staley T. McBrayer, a publisher of small Texas newspapers and a tinkerer who turned a castoff offset press designed to print small circulars into a printing press that revolutionized the industry, died on Sunday in Fort Worth. He was 92.
        His press, which was cobbled together from bits and pieces of existing technology, was followed by more sophisticated models that made color images -- once the province of Sunday supplements -- a regular part of newspaper front pages.
        The printing process that Mr. McBrayer used -- called offset or cold-type printing as distinguished from the letterpress or hot-type process -- made printing plates from photographic images of newspaper pages. It made the skills needed to turn hot metal into the printed word irrelevant and led to protracted labor struggles over the future of linotypists and other workers in the letterpress crafts.
        In addition, since photographic negatives were more portable than trays of lead type, offset printing allowed many small newspapers to share a printing site. The resulting savings buffered the declines in advertising revenue caused by the rise of regional department stores, which supplanted small-town businesses but did little advertising in small-town papers.
        Otha C. Spencer, professor emeritus of journalism, photography and printing at Texas A & M University's campus in Commerce, said many smaller newspapers ''would have gone out of business'' without the offset press. Less than three decades after Mr. McBrayer's first press was finished in 1954, ''99 percent of the country's newspapers were offset,'' Mr. Spencer said.
        Staley Thomas McBrayer was born in Saltillo, Tex., halfway between Dallas and the Arkansas border to the northeast. He attended East Texas State Teachers College -- now the Commerce campus of Texas A & M -- where he began working in the business department of The Commerce Journal. After graduating in 1933, he studied journalism at the University of Texas in Austin, where he met his wife, Beverly Wills. They were married in 1938.
        After finishing his studies, Mr. McBrayer became the advertising and business manager of The Commerce Journal. He later bought several small newspapers in the Fort Worth area, including The North Side News, The West Side Post and The River Oaks News.
        Jenkins Garrett, a lawyer who was Mr. McBrayer's partner in publishing, said, ''He was a real genius at being successful and developing small-town newspapers and emphasizing local news.''
        But the salaries of linotypists, set by union agreements, and the other costs associated with letterpress ''were killing us,'' Mr. Garrett said.
        Mr. McBrayer, he said, ''decided that we can't go on without finding a new method.'' So, ''he and our pressmen and the fellow in charge of printing, they all started thinking in terms of how in the world can we print this thing cheaper.''
        After buying an unwanted German-made offset press for $10,000, Mr. McBrayer sought to blend the cold-type single-sheet printing technology with the newspaper press. At the time, major press manufacturers did not think the offset process could be made to work with fast-running rotary newspaper presses.
        The group experimented with various metals, plastics, papers and inks to design a workable two-step process. The image of a newspaper page was transferred first to a metal plate, which was inked, and then to a rubber blanket that picks up the ink and impresses the image onto newsprint.
        When the design was finished, a young engineer in Fort Worth, Grant Ghormley, agreed to make the presses, refining as he went.
        For the first few years, the makers of letterpress machines scorned the new press, calling it a glorified mimeograph machine good only for smearing words onto a page.
        ''There was a lot of antagonism between the offset and the letterpress people,'' said Mr. Spencer, author of ''Staley McBrayer and the Offset Newspaper Revolution'' (East Texas Mayo Press).
        According to John Sternickle, the Midwest regional sales manager for the press manufacturer Goss International, Goss entered the offset business in the 1960's. The original market, small newspapers, expanded as the presses were refined and made faster, enabling them to meet the needs of larger dailies. Goss's competitor, the Harris Corporation, which had bought the McBrayer-Ghormley press for examination, later bought the manufacturing operation, the Offset Manufacturing Company.
        With press costs down and profits up, Mr. McBrayer and Mr. Garrett bought six newspapers in the late 1950's in larger towns near Dallas and Fort Worth, including Arlington, Irving and Richmond Hills. Mr. McBrayer ran these papers for about a decade before selling them.
        Mr. McBrayer is survived by two sisters, Erlena Jolly of San Angelo, Tex., and Mary Beth Hale of Junction, Tex.
        Correction:  May 6, 2002, Monday  An obituary on April 20 about Staley T. McBrayer, who conceived of the first newspaper offset press, referred incompletely to the role of an engineer, J. Grant Ghormley Jr., in its development. While Mr. McBrayer had the idea and worked with a team of pressmen to resolve crucial production issues, it was Mr. Ghormley who designed and built a workable version. He and Clyde T. Kitchens hold the 1959 patent on the core design.
      