
        Josef Svoboda, a Czech stage designer who combined an architect's precision, a technician's ingenuity and an artist's vision to evoke magically imaginary worlds in more than 700 theatrical productions, died on April 8 in Prague. He was 81.
        Jarka M. Burian, his biographer, said he apparently died of prostate or kidney cancer after being ill for nearly a year.
        Mr. Svoboda's innovative approach, honed in small Prague theaters and the world's great opera houses, first caught the attention of the North American public at the Czechoslovakian pavilion at Expo 67 in Montreal. Live performers intercepted the image of a ball on a screen and it would become a real one. They would toss it back and it would become an image again.
        But his approach was also seen in the bold, stark designs he did for the Metropolitan Opera's productions of ''Carmen'' and ''Les Vêpres Siciliennes,'' as well as sets he designed for the Grand Opera in Paris, the Royal Opera House in London, the Burgtheater of Vienna and the Berlin opera.
        He cooperated with the world's leading directors, including Laurence Olivier, Giorgio Strehler and Milos Forman. He designed three completely different sets for Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, one each for Convent Garden, Geneva and an ancient Roman theater in Orange, France.
        In 1966, when he had about 300 productions behind him, an article in The Times of London called him ''the world's leading scenic designer.''
        Mr. Svoboda's formidable bag of tricks included film and video screens, giant mirrors, sheet metal surfaces suspended above the stage, and scenery that moved from place to place. But sometimes, if it seemed right for the production, his sole decoration could be as simple as the silhouette of skyline.
        He likened scenery to an instrument in the orchestra, Mr. Burian said. Sometimes it is silent, and sometimes it is the most important part of the visual symphony.
        ''Scenery,'' Mr. Svoboda said, ''is not an end in itself but a logical component of the complementary arts of the stage. The scenic artist collaborates on equal terms with the author and the director.''
        He was born on May 10, 1920, in the small town of Caslav about 30 miles from Prague. His father was a maker of fine cabinets and persuaded his son to follow that craft instead of becoming a painter of pictures as the young man had hoped. He held a one-man show of his paintings when he was 15.
        The family moved to Prague in 1939, the year Germany made that city and the rest of Bohemia a protectorate. Mr. Svoboda could not study liberal arts as he had planned because the Nazis closed the universities. So he studied interior design for a year.
        After the war he studied architecture at the School of Industrial and Fine Arts and began working as a set designer while a student there. He later taught architecture at the school for the 20 years, ending in 1990. He never designed buildings but once said that his greatest regret was not having designed a theater.
        After the war he and some friends, including the director Alfred Radok, began the Fifth of May Theater. In 1951 he became chief designer and technical director for the National Theater. He was one of the earliest theater artists to bring film and slide projections on to the stage, though the German use of abstract projections dated back to the 1920's.
        In 1958, he, Mr. Radok and others created Laterna Magika, or magic lantern, a multimedia performance group that combined ballet and pantomime with film art. One of its productions, ''Kouzelny Cirkus,'' or magic circus, has been performed 5,000 times in Prague and in 14 other countries.
        Mr. Svoboda is survived by his wife, Libuse, and his daughter, Sarka Hejnova of Prague.
        His love of experimentation led him to use video screens in 1965; in 1972 he began to explore the theatrical potential of lasers. Though he refused to embrace Communism, he used assignments from the government to test new technical methods.
        ''The government did not give us money specifically for this development,'' he said of the concept he presented at Expo 67. ''They gave us money for the dissemination of political propaganda at the Czech pavilion. But we used the money to advance our new technique.''
        For decades Mr. Svoboda designed the sets for 15 or more productions a year. Reviews varied. Writing in The New York Times in 1976, the music critic Harold C. Schonberg described Mr. Svoboda's set for the Metropolitan Opera's production of Verdi's ''Otello'' this way: ''The set is highly stylized and severe, largely in horizontal planes, and it works beautifully.''
        Two years earlier, Clive Barnes, theater critic for The Times, had said that Mr. Svoboda's settings for Tom Stoppard's ''Jumpers'' were ''heavy, glossy and soulless.''
        But scores and scores of his sets were memorable, from the silver hanging cords masquerading as walls and forests he designed for Olivier's production of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters'' to a production in which he used slanting mirrors to enable actors to float like insects.
        The Daily Telegraph recalled the elaborate designs he made for a London production of Straus's ''Frau Ohne Schatten'' in 1967. Two sopranos were injured when they fell off stairs linking different stage levels, and Mr. Svoboda himself suffered a concussion after falling eight feet.
      