
        Wang Ruoshui, one of China's most important liberal intellectuals -- who started his career as a disciple of Mao and ended it officially shunned by China's ruling Communist Party -- died Thursday in a hospital in Boston. He was 75.
        He died of lung cancer, the family said. He was spending the year in the United States, where his wife, Feng Yuan, a Chinese journalist, was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard.
        He was barred from publishing his work in China for years, but his personal and very public disillusionment with Communist Party rule in the 1980's nonetheless helped pave the way for the tide of liberal thought on the mainland that has gained momentum ever since. In fact, many of the ''revisionist'' ideas that caused him to loose his job as deputy editor in chief of People's Daily 15 years ago are commonplace in academic circles now.
        Born in southern Hunan Province in 1926, Mr. Wang became an ardent believer in Mao Zedong and the Communist cause in the 1940's, before the party triumphed over the Kuomintang and established the People's Republic of China In 1949.
        A profound thinker respected by both friends and enemies for his rigorous and honest analysis, Mr. Wang, who obtained a degree in philosophy from Beijing University in 1948,  quickly became one of the party's rising young theoreticians.
        He joined People's Daily in 1950, where he became the editor of the theory page.
        He was singled out by Mao as a ''promising young man,'' in the early years of the People's Republic. Mao would even call him in the middle of the night for advice, said David Kelly, author of ''Marxism in Post-Mao China,'' who has translated some of Mr. Wang's works into English. He was trusted to write attacks on those deemed enemies of the nascent revolution, a task Mr. Wang did effectively but later came to regret.
        ''He would say he really regretted getting involved in those campaigns, but, as he said, he was then a true believer,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''In the last couple of years he would say, 'I was a disciple of a cult.' ''
        Even as Mr. Wang did the party's bidding, he never stopped pondering China's society in the making and, in the wake of Mao's disastrous Cultural Revolution, he developed profound misgivings.
        He noted that much of the alienation and displacement that Communist theory attributed to capitalism was occurring in socialist China as well. He criticized the excesses of the Cultural Revolution, in which millions of Chinese were killed or imprisoned for exhibiting bourgeois or Western tendencies.
        Although he remained a devoted Marxist to his death, Mr. Wang came to believe that a socialist country like China could and should embrace liberal principles like free speech, human rights and the rule of law.
        In 1979, he made waves by criticizing Mao's personality cult at a party meeting. In the early part of the 1980's he wrote and lectured widely about his revised ideas.
        Although he was wildly popular among students and packed lecture halls, he was condemned by the party as a member of the ''revisionist counter-elite.'' He refused to write a self-criticism.
        He was ultimately removed from his job at People's Daily in 1983 and was stripped of his membership in the Communist Party in 1987. Although his influence diminished, it never disappeared.
        A prolific writer even though he was generally not allowed to publish in China, his books and essays are still snapped up overseas, particulary in Chinese-speaking countries. In later life, he remained in touch with many former colleagues and continued to live in the People's Daily compound. A quiet, thoughtful man, he never shrank from interviews with journalists, who valued his analysis of events.
        ''Liberalism is now the accepted ideology of Chinese intellectuals -- freedom and democracy, rule of law, human rights,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''Wang Ruoshui helped to open that ground.''
      