
        Herbert Wernicke, an innovative German opera director and designer, died on April 16 in Basel, Switzerland. He was 56 and lived in Basel.
        The cause was a lung embolism, a Metropolitan Opera spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Wernicke worked frequently at the opera house in Basel, where he was busy on a production of Handel's oratorio ''Israel in Egypt'' when he died. His work was also familiar in Paris, where he staged an important production of Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aron'' at the Théâtre du Châtelet in 1990, and in Vienna, where he was scheduled for the premiere of Ernst Krenek's ''Jonny Spielt Auf'' in December, Seiji Ozawa's first new production as music director for the Vienna State Opera.
        But perhaps his most significant working relationship was with the music administrator Gerard Mortier. In Brussels, when Mr. Mortier ran the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie, Mr. Wernicke staged everything from Cavalli's ''Calisto'' to a noted ''Ring'' cycle. After Mr. Mortier took over the Salzburg Festival, Mr. Wernicke was featured there regularly, from his debut in 1993 with Monteverdi's ''Orfeo'' to Verdi's ''Don Carlo'' in 1999.
        A director whose work ran from the visually compelling to the psychologically challenging, he showed his more lyrical side in a shimmering production of Strauss's ''Frau Ohne Schatten'' that received great acclaim at the Metropolitan Opera in December. It was his first work created for a company in the United States.
        Born on March 24, 1946, in Auggen in the Black Forest region of Germany, Mr. Wernicke studied piano, flute and conducting at a music conservatory in Braunschweig before moving to Munich to study theater design at the Academy of Fine Arts. While he began his career exclusively as a set and costume designer, he moved into the director's chair in 1978 in Darmstadt with a production of Handel's ''Belshazzar.''
        Baroque opera remained a specialty. Lully's ''Alceste'' and Vivaldi's ''Juditha Triumphans'' followed in Darmstadt, and he had a successful debut at the Bavarian State Opera in Munich with Handel's ''Judas Maccabaeus'' in 1980. Last year he received the Bavarian Theater Prize for ''Actus Tragicus,'' a staging of Bach cantatas that originated in Basel.
        Mr. Wernicke, who continued to design his own sets and costumes, used a wide-ranging theatrical vocabulary, from static tableau to provocative and sometimes outré statement. His Brussels ''Ring'' was set in an ultra-German setting, Hitler's mountain retreat, with the figure of Richard Wagner as a leitmotif.
        His ''Flying Dutchman'' in Munich in 1981 proved so controversial that he was not invited back to the opera house until 1997. Then, under a new administration, he staged a striking, spare, blood-red ''Elektra.'' After the success of that production, he was asked to do a new ''Ring'' cycle in Munich. ''Das Rheingold'' had its premiere this past February; ''Die Walküre,'' the second opera in the tetralogy, was to have opened on June 30.
        Mr. Wernicke's marriage to Desiree Meiser ended in divorce. He is survived by their children, Johannes and Franziska; his mother, Hertha Wernicke of Braunschweig; a sister; and Mareike Uhlig, his companion, of Basel.
      