
        Paul Georges, an American painter best known for his large-scale figurative allegories and satirical self-portraits, died on April 16 in Normandy, France, where he had a home. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Andrew Kelly, the vice president of Salander-O'Reilly Galleries.
        Mr. Georges studied with Hans Hofmann in Provincetown, Mass. He moved to Paris in 1949 and attended the Atelier Fernand Léger. Back in New York in 1952 he worked in abstract and figurative styles, usually combining them. He had solo shows at the Tibor de Nagy Gallery in 1955 and 1957, and later at the Allan Frumkin Gallery.
        With the rise of Pop in the 1960's, Mr. Georges's full-bodied painting style went out of fashion. He continued to work in several genres, producing self-portraits and group portraits with mocking references to myth, art history and contemporary politics. In 1975 the artists Anthony Siani and Jacob Silberman sued him for libel for his depiction of them in the painting ''Mugging of the Muse'' (1974). They won in 1980, but the decision was overturned.
        In 1984 he bought a farm in Isigny-sur-Mer, Normandy, and began dividing his time between Europe and the United States. He produced vividly colored landscapes, still lifes and floral paintings as well as allegorical series like ''Diana and Actaeon'' (1987-88), considered by some critics to be his best work. In 1992 he had his first show at Salander-O'Reilly. In the late 1990's a real estate developer brought 22 of his works and established the Center for Figurative Painting in Manhattan primarily to show them.
        Mr. Georges had visiting teaching positions at Dartmouth, Yale, the University of Oregon, the University of Pennsylvania, Boston University, Cooper Union, Queens College in New York and Brandeis University. In 1978 he was appointed professor of fine arts at Brandeis; he retired in 1985.
        His work is owned by the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Hirshhorn Museum, the Newark Museum and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
        He is survived by his wife, Lisette Blumenthal Georges; two daughters, Paulette Theodore of Paris and Yvette Deeton of New York; two brothers, Thomas and Ossie, both of Portland, Ore.; and by a sister, Shirley Gittelsohn, also of Portland.
        Correction:  May 2, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the painter Paul Georges on Friday misstated his wife's middle name. She is Lisette Blumenfeld Georges, not Blumenthal.
      