
        Col. William E. Barber, who won the Medal of Honor for his leadership of a vastly outnumbered company under siege on a snowy hilltop in one of the worst defeats in Marine history, the Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in 1950, died on April 19 at his home in Irvine, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was bone-marrow cancer, said Jerry Courtier, a friend who hopes to write Colonel Barber's biography.
        The reservoir is south of the Yalu River, which separates North Korea from China. After the Americans had pushed the North Koreans almost to the Yalu, 150,000 Chinese troops unexpectedly crossed the river into North Korea. Colonel Barber's unit, Company F of the Second Battalion of the Seventh Marines, First Marine Division, was on a hill that commanded the Toktong Pass, a vital gap between Yudam Ni and Hagaru Ri, two towns separated by 78 miles.
        The stakes were huge. If F Company yielded its position, 8,000 marines at Yudam Ni would be cut off from the 3,000 at Haguru Ri by tens of thousands of Chinese troops.
        Through five days and six nights in subzero weather and often swirling snow, Colonel Barber, then a captain, inspired his men, outnumbered more than five to one, to cling to their tenuous positions. He was shot in a bone near his groin on the second day but continued to make the rounds of the hill. He likened the wound to a bee sting.
        When the unit was ordered to withdraw and fight its way to safety, Captain Barber refused. Three times, the enemy broke through the line, only to be repulsed.
        ''I knew that we could probably hold, and I knew that if we didn't hold we could exact a very heavy toll,'' he said in an interview in 1976 with The Los Angeles Times.
        His citation for the nation's top medal said that he commanded his men from a stretcher. But Hector A. Cafferata Jr., who as a rifleman won the Medal of Honor in the same battle, insisted that Captain Barber refused the stretcher.
        ''He walked the line, he kept us together,'' said Mr. Cafferata, who was beside Captain Barber when he was shot.
        In the mayhem, the Chinese blew whistles, beat cymbals and tooted bugles as they repeatedly attacked. Coffee froze before men could drink it, and some of the wounded died because plasma froze with no way to thaw it.
        When the battle was over, more than 1,000 enemy soldiers were dead. Of Captain Barber's original 240 men, 82 were able to walk away.
        Gen. Raymond G. Davis, who was a lieutenant colonel in the Marines, received a Medal of Honor for leading the unit that rescued F Company.
        William Earl Barber was born on Nov. 30, 1919, in Dehart, Ky. He attended what is now Morehead State University in Morehead, Ky., for two years and enlisted in the Marines, at the age of 21, in 1940.
        He was so good at shooting a rifle that he was made a weapons instructor. After volunteering for parachute training, he demonstrated such proficiency that he became a parachute instructor.
        In World War II, he was promoted to sergeant in 1942 and commissioned a second lieutenant in 1943. He was a rifle platoon commander at Camp Pendleton, Calif., when his unit was shipped to the Pacific.
        Colonel Barber was in the first wave to hit Iwo Jima, where he was wounded twice. He received the Silver Star for bravery in addition to two Purple Hearts. At a ceremony on the 50th anniversary of the battle in 1995, he said:
        ''I am older now, as you are, but I can still see the colors of that February morning. The sky. The island. And sometimes I think I can hear the noise of battle.''
        He was treated in Japan for his wounds and returned to the United States, where he worked as a recruiter, among other positions. He was promoted to captain in 1949 and was in the force that occupied Japan.
        When he joined F Company in Korea, he saw a raggedy unshaven bunch and immediately ordered the the troops to shave, shine their shoes and look like marines. He suggested that his new charges resembled Pancho Villa's bandits.
        ''He was one tough guy,'' Mr. Cafferata said. ''He was by the book.''
        Always modest, Colonel Barber once said that in the confusion of combat five or six others usually deserved the Medal of Honor as much as the soldier to whom it was given. He also suggested that his unit had been helped by the less-than-inspired tactics by the Chinese, who always attacked at the same time by exactly the same route.
        Colonel Barber went to Vietnam as a psychological operations officer and won the Legion of Merit. After retiring from the Marines in 1970, he worked as a military analyst for the Northrop Corporation.
        Surviving are his wife of 60 years, Ione; a son, John, of Seattle; a daughter, Sharon Waldo, also of Seattle; and three granddaughters.
        Mr. Cafferata said Colonel Barber kept up with his men and ''was proud we all turned out to be good, God-loving law-abiding people.''
        On Veterans Day, the colonel always had to choose among many invitations.
        ''I go where I'm needed,'' he said, ''wherever a group of marines is.''
        Correction:  May 14, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary on April 26 about Col. William E. Barber of the Marines, who won the Medal of Honor for his leadership at the Battle of the Chosin Reservoir in Korea, in 1950, referred incompletely to the outcome. Although an overwhelming Chinese force ultimately drove the much smaller American one from the field, the Marines, and some historians, describe the American action as a series of tactical victories in the course of a fighting withdrawal or retreat, not one of the worst defeats in Marine Corps history.
      