
        Aleksandr I. Lebed, a blunt-spoken Soviet paratroop commander who later played a crucial supporting role in the birth of Russian democracy, was killed today in a helicopter crash in far southern Siberia.
        Mr. Lebed, who had turned 52 last week, was governor of central Russia's sprawling Krasnoyarsk Province. He died with six others when their helicopter struck a power line and crashed while landing in snow and fog south of Abakan, less than 200 miles from Mongolia. An unknown number of passengers survived, some with serious injuries.
        He was reported to have been inspecting a new ski run in the area's snow-covered hills. President Vladimir V. Putin appointed a commission to determine the cause of the accident.
        Mr. Lebed first made his mark on the battlefield, commanding a battalion of Soviet Army paratroopers in Afghanistan in 1981 and 1982. But he will be remembered longest for a bold political stroke taken in August 1991, after K.G.B.-led hard-liners had placed President Mikhail S. Gorbachev under house arrest and announced a takeover of Soviet power.
        Boris N. Yeltsin, then president of the Soviet Union's Russian republic, emerged as the focus of democratic resistance to the coup. On the second day of the takeover, Mr. Lebed went to the Russian White House, where Mr. Yeltsin was holed up, and took the role of coordinator of the democratic military opposition.
        Mr. Lebed, then a general in charge of an airborne division, urged Mr. Yeltsin to rally the military by declaring himself supreme commander of the Russian republic forces, thus establishing a chain of command for undecided officers to follow.
        Mr. Yeltsin, in his 1994 chronology of Russian independence, ''The Struggle for Russia,'' wrote that ''after all, the supreme commander in chief of the Soviet Union was . . . President Gorbachev, and Gorbachev's location was now uncertain.''
        Aided by the coup-plotters' indecision, the military largely backed Mr. Yeltsin, and the takeover attempt wound up setting the stage for Russian democracy instead of re-establishing dictatorship.
        Mr. Lebed later soured on Mr. Yeltsin's handling of the new Russian Federation and challenged him for president in 1996, campaigning on a pledge to end the nation's endemic corruption. But when he finished third, excluded from the two-candidate runoff, he threw his support to Mr. Yeltsin and thus ensured that the Kremlin's Communist opposition would fail to retake power.
        He was rewarded with a brief stint as Mr. Yeltsin's national security chief, but his maverick style soon led to his dismissal, and he eventually settled into a prominent but lesser role as governor of Krasnoyarsk, a huge, mineral-rich swath of central Siberia.
        Aleksandr Ivanovich Lebed, known for his acid wit and his bullfrog-register voice, was a Cossack born in 1950 in Rostov Province, in the southwest Cossack heartland. After attending an airborne school and a military academy, he worked as a freight handler and a polisher at the Novocherkassk Permanent Magnet Plant, then entered the army in 1973 as a platoon commander.
        He dreamed of being a flier, but a nose broken at 16 disqualified him from the air force academy. ''I decided to try to make my dream come true 50-50: infantry, but the winged one,'' he once said.
        He entered the army airborne forces, rose to commander first of a paratroop battalion, then an airborne regiment and finally an airborne division. In 1991, he became deputy commander of all airborne forces for training and education.
        Despite his important role in the birth of Russian democracy, his own ideology was opaque, cloaked in military regalia and the trappings of Russian nationalism. He bemoaned Russia's loss of world prestige after the Soviet collapse. He appeared to detest corrupt Communist rule, but hedged even after the 1991 coup when asked whether he supported Mr. Yeltsin's democratic push.
        He offered a typically unvarnished assessment of his own platform in his 1996 presidential campaign. ''You will plow,'' he said, ''and I will ensure public order.'' In fact, beyond broad pronouncements on restoring Russia's greatness and subduing the ''swine'' who had lost it, he had little taste for the details of policy or the subtlety of foreign relations.
        Mr. Lebed became something close to a national hero in his role as commander of Russia's 14th Army in 1992, helping ethnic Russians in Moldova's breakaway region of Trans-Dniester in a war for independence. Although the region has not won recognition as an independent state, it was one of the few instances in which the crumbling Soviet empire managed to retain a toehold among satellite states that usually wanted nothing more than their own freedom.
        Yet in 1996, as Mr. Yeltsin's national security adviser and envoy to the breakaway province of Chechnya, he agreed to an almost meek settlement that gave ethnic separatists de facto independence from Moscow.
        Independence later led to a chaos, with Chechnya becoming a stateless region run by bandits and religious warriors before being plunged into a second war in 1999.
      