
        Nathan Turk, who at 10 fell in love with the horse of Mendel the iceman on the Lower East Side and went on to own the Rocking Horse Ranch Resort -- one of the nation's largest dude ranches, with more than 100 horses -- died on the ranch in Highland, N.Y., on April 10. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, his son, Steven, said.
        Mr. Turk, who was known as Toolie, derived from his Hebrew name, Naphtali, was born on Oct. 23, 1929, on the Lower East Side. His relationship with horses began when he unhooked the horse from the iceman's wagon, jumped on its back and rode through the streets, his son said.
        His first of many jobs was helping his father wash the windows of commercial buildings, including skyscrapers. He also worked at a seltzer bottle factory and was a lifeguard at New York City beaches and pools.
        In December 1956, he met his future wife, Gloria Schwartz, at the Triple Lake Dude Ranch in Succasunna, N.J., which is defunct. She loved horses, too, and before they were even married, they bought a rundown boarding house once known as Friedman's Shady Rest Hotel in Highland. Locals remembered it as a place favored by gangsters like Dutch Schultz and Legs Diamond.
        They were married in April 1958, and a month later opened Rocking Horse Ranch Resort. Their assets included unbroken horses destined for the slaughterhouse and a boiler into which they had to shovel coal.
        But room by room, they transformed the hotel into attractive accommodations, helped by Mr. Turk's brother, Alvin, who had become a partner. Alvinlater sold his interest in the resort to Steven.
        The mortgage was paid off and the profits were rolling in when an arsonist set fire to the main building on New Year's Eve weekend, 1971. Three hundred guests escaped, but the underinsured resort was destroyed.
        Undaunted, the Turk family obtained another mortgage and rebuilt the resort from the ground up. It reopened just six months later with every room booked.
        The resort has grown to include a ski area, three heated swimming pools, tennis courts and a miniature golf course. Each of the 125,000 guests each year is guaranteed at least one ride on a horse each day.
        Mr. Turk is survived by his wife, his son and a daughter, Suzanne Turk Garcia, all of Highland; his brother, of Boca Raton, Fla.; his sister, Eleanor Buxbaum of Fairfield, Conn.; and five grandchildren.
        Steven said his father was not related to another Nathan Turk, the designer of flamboyant cowboy clothing for Western stars like Buck Owens and Gene Autry.
        But Mr. Turk relished cowboy trappings, habitually wearing a Stetson hat, boots and spurs.
        He was a practicing blacksmith. His son said he might have had the most patents for horseshoes in the nation, though none of his improvements seem to have caught on.
        His ranch has never owned a single cow.
      