
        Siegbert Freiberg, who escaped death in the Holocaust by a series of seeming miracles and became perhaps the first survivor to tell his story in English on American radio, died at his home in Middle Village, Queens, on April 20. He was 75.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his wife, Herta, said.
        His life story winds from a happy, middle-class ''house filled with music'' to avoiding Auschwitz by a fluke accident, to being hidden for two and a half years by gentiles. He returned to Berlin after the war to marry the daughter of the family that had saved him.
        Perhaps the most dramatic moment of his story came on a New York radio program on July 6, 1947, with the surprise appearance of his father, Max, who had believed his son dead like the rest of the family. Max screamed. Father and son hugged for 20 minutes.
        ''The elderly gentleman is really overcome with emotion,'' the announcer said. ''He can't speak.''
        Henry Sapoznik, a radio producer and historian, said, ''The case of Siegbert Freiberg was a watershed in altering and redirecting public opinion to the plight of Holocaust victims.''
        The father-son reunion is to be broadcast on National Public Radio on May 21.
        Mr. Sapoznik found the recording of the program, called ''Reunion,'' in a Bronx warehouse. He then spent most of a decade tracking down Siegbert Freiberg. When Mr. Freiberg was found, with the help of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, he inexplicably ignored Mr. Sapoznik's letter for more than a year.
        Mr. Sapoznik said the broadcast seemed to be the first in which a Holocaust survivor told of his travails, although he acknowledged that there might have been earlier broadcasts on Yiddish radio.
        Mr. Sapoznik -- who is a co-producer of a Yiddish radio series recently broadcast on National Public Radio's ''All Things Considered -- said the original reunion broadcast had been paid for by a group hoping to open America's doors to Holocaust victims.
        ''It was a very conscious attempt to put a face on the murdered masses,'' he said.
        Mr. Freiberg was born in Berlin on Nov. 4, 1926. His father ran a stationery store. On Kristalnacht, the ''night of broken glass'' -- Nov. 9, 1938 -- the store was destroyed, and Max Freiberg was sent to the Buchenwald concentration camp.
        Siegbert, who was 12, was expelled from school, as was every Jewish child, and was sent to work in a munitions factory. His stepmother (his mother died when he was a child) worked tirelessly for her husband's release. Through her relentless lobbying, Max Freiberg was allowed to leave Buchenwald and go to Shanghai.
        But by the time he was able to send for his wife and son, they were not allowed to leave. In the years that followed, every member of his family except Siegbert was killed. He, too, was supposed to be killed.
        In February 1943, Siegbert was picked up and sent to a former synagogue in Berlin, where Jews were being rounded up for shipment to Auschwitz. Walking up the stairs of the synagogue, he fell and broke his leg. He never understood why he was not shot on the spot. But he was sent to a hospital.
        A hospital social worker asked him if he had any relatives who were still alive. He named a distant cousin, a gentile like his mother. She was notified and came to visit with a friend.
        The friend was Herta Lankow, who had brought along her daughter, Irene, then 5. Though Herta was married and 16 years older than he, Mr. Freiberg was infatuated.
        ''The minute I saw her, I fell in love with that lady,'' he told Dave Isay, the other producer of the Yiddish radio series. ''She was the most beautiful woman I had ever seen.''
        Mrs. Freiberg used more modest language in a phone interview. ''We hit it off,'' she said.
        Mr. Freiberg escaped from the hospital and ran to the home of the woman who had visited him. Herta and her mother, in the face of lethal danger, agreed to hide him. He stayed until the end of the war, and then joined the displaced people heading for the United States.
        Two years passed, and he was invited to be a guest in the first episodes of ''Reunion,'' which was paid for by the United Service for New Americans. The backers hoped that sympathy for refugees, particularly Holocaust survivors, would help persuade the federal government to welcome more of them to the United States.
        The program was modeled on ''Queen for a Day,'' in which people told their stories and a prize was given to the most emotionally compelling one. Contestants on ''Reunion'' included combat veterans and college athletes who had lost touch with one another. Each pair would be reunited on live radio.
        The final guests on most episodes would be Holocaust survivors, although the word Holocaust was almost never used. ''It was propaganda,'' Mr. Sapoznik said. ''It was also manipulative.''
        It seemed to work. By popular demand, the two were invited back the next week.
        The shows were preserved because the Federal Communications Commission required that all radio programs be recorded on acetate discs in case there were complaints. It was one of those discs that Mr. Sapoznik discovered.
        In the show's aftermath, Max Freiberg gave his son the gift of a steamship ticket to thank the German family that had saved him. Siegbert proposed to Herta, who was now divorced. She accepted, and with Irene joined him in Queens. They are his only survivors.
        Mrs. Freiberg worked as a secretary, and Mr. Freiberg, after serving in the Army in Korea, did the paperwork for a company that shipped automobiles. Max Freiberg worked as a janitor at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        Siegbert and Herta Freiberg, who did not have children together, never told their story to neighbors. She said he often gave her flowers, candies and gifts to express his profound love.
        ''He spent 48 years staring at her,'' Mr. Isay said. ''That's it.''
      