
        Sir Peter Shepheard, a British architect, planner and landscape designer who was a dean and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, died on April 11 at his home in London. He was 88.
        Sir Peter, who was knighted in 1980 for ''services to architecture,'' emphasized the relationship between landscapes and man-made structures.
        As The Times of London recalled, ''To him, a full consideration of the environment meant thinking about a combination of architecture, town planning and landscape.''
        Anne Whiston Spirn, professor of landscape architecture and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has written that he recorded, understood and celebrated ''the natural and built world,'' and also ''quietly asserted the abiding importance of the garden and the practical, sensual, and traditional qualities of materials, craft and design.''
        After a time as a visiting professor of landscape architecture at the University of Pennsylvania, he served as dean of its Graduate School of Fine Arts from 1971 to 1979. He was in charge of the departments of architecture, city planning, fine arts and landscape architecture.
        In 1973 he founded the university's Design of the Environment Program, an interdisciplinary liberal arts curriculum for undergraduates. He was instrumental in planning that led to the enhancement of the campus.
        Beginning in the 1970's, Sir Peter was also professor of landscape architecture at the university. He became emeritus in 1994.
        His work in Britain included garden design for Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, landscape designs for the London Zoo and for public gardens in London, and long service as artistic adviser to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. He also worked on the restoration of the garden of the Bloomsbury Group artist Vanessa Bell at Charleston, south of London.
        During World War II he was with the British Ministry of Town and Country Planning. In later years he was involved in the master plan and design of buildings for the new University of Lancaster. He also did design work for Oxford and other British educational institutions.
        His writings include the books ''Modern Gardens'' (1953) and ''Gardens.'' (1969)
        He was appointed Commander, Order of the British Empire in 1972.
        Peter Faulkner Shepheard was born in Birkenhead on the west coast of England near Liverpool, where he grew up.
        He received a bachelor's degree in architecture with first-class honors in 1936 from the Liverpool School of Architecture. Then he did a year's postgraduate study in the area of civic design.
        In World War II he also worked on the design of factories for military matériel.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Bailey, whom he married in 1943; their son, Paul, who is an architect; and their daughter, Sarah.
      