
        Michael Todd Jr., son of the producer of ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' who took over his father's production business and made a Smell-o-Vision film that combined movies with changing odors, died on Sunday at his home in County Carlow, Ireland. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Susan McCarthy Todd, said.
        Released in 1960 and titled ''Scent of Mystery'' in the United States, but ''Holiday in Spain'' in Britain, the Smell-o-Vision film was a murder-adventure set in Spain during which smells related to the onscreen action where released into the theater. An early view of a monastery rose garden was accompanied by the scent of roses, while a shot of a woman perfuming herself brought the appropriate smell. When wine casks rolled down a hill and smashed against a wall, the odor of grape juice arrived. The smells were released through tiny pipes attached to the back of each seat.
        Despite the gimmick, the film -- starring Denholm Elliott, Peter Lorre and Diana Dors -- was a flop. The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther called it an ''artless, loose-jointed 'chase' picture set against some of the scenic beauties of Spain.''
        As to the value of adding smells to the screen pictures, this was ''dubious and dependent upon the noses of the individual viewers and the smell-projector's whims,'' he wrote.
        Michael Todd Jr. was born in Los Angeles on Oct. 8, 1929, the only son of the theatrical and film producer Michael Todd and his first wife, Bertha Freshman, who died in 1946. His stepmothers were the actresses Joan Blondell and Elizabeth Taylor.
        As a young man he worked for his father, helping with the distribution of his hit movie ''Around the World in 80 Days.''
        After his father's death in a plane crash in 1958, he took over the company and continued to develop Smell-o-Vision, which Michael Todd Sr. had first thought of when he was making an early wide-screen Cinerama picture.
        The younger Mr. Todd produced no great theatrical or movie successes, but his inheritance from his father left him wealthy.
        In 1964 he produced a racially integrated minstrel show, called ''America, Be Seated,'' for the New York World's Fair, but it closed after two performances.
        In 1953 he married the former Sarah Jane Weaver, who died in 1972. They had six children, who survive him: Cyrus, Susan, Sarah, Eliza Haselton, Daniel and Oliver.
        Later in 1972 he married Susan McCarthy, who also survives him, along with their sons, Del and James.
        Mr. Todd is also survived by a half-sister, Liza.
        In 1973, he moved to Ireland with his family. In 1983 he published ''A Valuable Property: The Life Story of Michael Todd'' (Arbor House), an account of his father's life and career written with his wife Susan.
      