
        Dr. D. Eugene Strandness Jr., a surgeon whose research brought about significant advances in noninvasive vascular medicine, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Bellevue, Wash. He was 73.
        The cause was pulmonary failure, according to the University of Washington, where he was chief of the medical school's division of vascular surgery for 20 years. He retired with emeritus status in 1995 but continued to conduct research and see patients.
        He was considered one of the founding fathers of the university's medical school and medical center. But his influence extended far beyond Seattle with his contributions to the understanding and treatment of arterial and venous disorders.
        With Dr. Robert Rushmer, then a colleague in Seattle, Dr. Strandness developed one of the most important tools for diagnosing and tracking vascular disease. Called the ultrasonic duplex scanner, it uses high frequency ultrasound for a safe, noninvasive examination of tissues and blood.
        The scanner estimates blood flow and helps to observe blood flow patterns at the site of a patient's disorder. Since its introduction in the late 1970's, it has come into use at vascular laboratories and examination rooms worldwide.
        Donald Eugene Strandness was born in Bowman, N.D., and grew up in Olympia, Wash. He graduated from Pacific Lutheran University in 1950 and received his medical degree in 1954 from the University of Washington
        He joined the university's faculty in 1962 as an instructor in surgery. From then until 1965 he was also a clinical investigator for the Veterans Administration Hospital in Seattle.
        It was there that he began to experiment with Doppler instruments and later with high-frequency ultrasound pulses to find and assess blockages in blood vessels. He wrote or contributed to 34 books and published more than 400 papers.
        His efforts to adopt Doppler and ultrasound scanners for noninvasive vascular diagnoses initially met with skepticism within his profession, but by 1968 he had been elected president of the Society for Vascular Surgery.
        At the school of medicine, he became a full professor in 1970. He lectured internationally and sat on the editorial boards of journals in his field.
        Dr. Strandness is survived by his wife of 44 years, Edith; three daughters, Tracy Stierle of Manchester, Wash., Jill Exner of Snoqualmie, Wash., and Sandra Strandness of Bellevue; a son, Erik, of Spokane, Wash.; a sister, Audrey Martin of Tacoma, Wash.; and nine grandchildren.
      