
        Joel B. Leff, a founder and co-chairman of the investment management firm Forstmann-Leff Associates, died at his Manhattan home on Tuesday. He was 67 years old and had suffered from cancer.
        Mr. Leff combined an eclectic approach to investing with an equally eclectic approach to collecting and selling antiques from the Oblique Gallery, which he owned on East 60th Street in Manhattan.
        Since its founding in 1968, his investment firm, Forstmann-Leff, has grown to have more than $4 billion in assets under management and a client base that includes corporate and public pension funds as well as wealthy individuals.
        At the same time, he filled his shop with an array of Art Deco and Far Eastern antiques and paintings that he and his fourth wife, Jeanne, acquired on their travels and later re-sold. He kept a computer at the gallery so he could continue with his financial transactions as he supervised the placement and sale of his antique finds.
        He was also a William Cullen Bryant Fellow at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, part of a group of major donors to the museum's American Wing.
        The son of a successful businessman, Mr. Leff was born in New York City on April 4, 1935, and attended the Barnard School for Boys and graduated from the Wharton School's undergraduate program at the University of Pennsylvania in 1957. He graduated from Harvard Business School in 1961, where he wrote the Odd Man Out column for the business school newspaper. After graduating, he stayed on as a teacher in advanced economic theory at Harvard and was a member of its faculty.
        Before starting his partnership with Anthony Forstmann, Mr. Leff managed investments for several families and became a partner and research director for Hawkes & Company, a Wall Street firm.
        At the beginning of Forstmann-Leff, Mr. Leff attracted money from union pension funds and private individuals to his firm. Throughout his years, Mr. Leff focused on his institutional clients and continued to expand his firm's financial product line. At all times, he followed a growth strategy, whether it was in the firm's hedge funds, its various stock funds or as part of the firm's overall portfolio mix.
        In 1986, a British firm, the Guiness Peat Group, bought Forstmann-Leff, but later went bankrupt. Mr. Leff negotiated to buy the firm back. In 1997, Forstmann-Leff was sold again, to the Refco Group, a commodities firm, with Mr. Leff and his management team remaining to operate it under a management contract.
        As co-chairman, Mr. Leff's was a member of his firm's investment committee, developing the firm's strategy and writing a monthly newsletter to clients.
        With a house in Southampton, N.Y., many years as a bachelor and a love of the opera, tennis and the arts, Mr. Leff was a popular person at Upper East Side dinner parties and social events in the Hamptons. In his single years, he said that he received as many as 15 dinner party invitations a week and developed the technique of extricating himself from late-night events with the excuse that he had to leave to walk his two King Charles spaniels, Edison and Smudgin. He attributed his popularity to being a bachelor and being wealthy.
        After his 1999 wedding -- at the chapel in the Bellagio Hotel in Las Vegas -- he agreed to let his wedding video be auctioned for charity.
        Mr. Leff is survived by his wife; his mother, Zena L. Leff of Palm Beach, Fla.; his son, Adam B. Leff of Los Angeles; and his brother, Richard Leff, who lives in New Hampshire.
      