
        David Riesman, the sociologist whose 1950 scholarly book, ''The Lonely Crowd,'' unexpectedly tapped a deep vein of self-criticism among Americans and became a perennial best seller, contributing ideas and descriptive phrases to popular culture, died yesterday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 92 and had lived for many years in Cambridge, Mass.
        ''The Lonely Crowd: A Study of the Changing American Character,'' written with Reuel Denney and Nathan Glazer, prompted millions of Americans to begin characterizing their friends, neighbors and associates as ''other-directed,'' ''inner-directed'' or, occasionally, ''tradition-directed.''
        In ''The Lonely Crowd'' Professor Riesman identified those character types and declared that the prevalence of each within a society was determined by trends in population growth. The book contended that during periods or in cultures with a relatively stable population, a balanced social order and little technological change -- the Middle Ages, for example, or contemporary countries relatively untouched by industrialization -- the dominant character type was tradition-directed.
        Such people, he said, based their lives on rules ''dictated to a very large degree by power relations among the various age and sex groups, the clans, castes, professions -- relations which have endured for centuries and are modified but slightly, if at all, by successive generations.''
        Professor Riesman said that in periods of technological progress and population growth, like the Renaissance and the Reformation, people developed a capacity to go it alone and set lifelong goals for themselves based on values like wealth, fame, the search for scientific truth, the quest for religious salvation and the creation of beauty.
        But in periods in which consumption overtook production and the population was leveling off or even declining, he said a society became less dynamic, and its members more other-directed. In these circumstances, people seek to become accepted into the mainstream by conforming to the expectations and preferences of peer groups. Professor Riesman thought the United States was in this third phase, becoming a culture of more and more other-directed citizens.
        The intention of ''The Lonely Crowd'' was primarily to analyze American life rather than to point with anxiety to its deficiencies, but as the sociologist Dennis H. Wrong observed, ''it was widely read as deploring the rise of the psychological disposition it called 'other-direction' at the expense of 'inner-direction.' '' Professor Wrong said the combination of urgent warning, however misinterpreted, and manifest learning ''came across as a trumpet call to some sort of remedial action'' and helped to account for the book's phenomenal success.
        ''The Lonely Crowd'' was among the first of the postwar classics written by academics who gained unanticipated fame and fortune because an anxious public believed that their works had uncovered some deteriorating and alarming condition in American society. Other such books include ''The Greening of America,'' by Charles Reich; ''The Other America,'' by Michael Harrington; ''One-Dimensional Man,'' by Herbert Marcuse; ''Life Against Death,'' by Norman O. Brown; and ''The Closing of the American Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's Students,'' by Allan Bloom.
        In 1950, Yale University Press printed 3,000 copies of ''The Lonely Crowd,'' only to have to order 13 additional printings before the book appeared in an abridged version as one of the first ''quality paperbacks'' in the Anchor Books series, where it became an even greater success.
        In the 2001 abridged paperback edition, also published by Yale, the foreword by Todd Gitlin notes a 1997 study by Herbert Gans that called ''The Lonely Crowd'' ''the best-selling book by a sociologist in American history, with 1.4 million copies sold.''
        The book generated academic debate, opposition and occasional derision. Its champions considered it a brave and unusual effort to define the shifting relationship between the general culture and individual behavior. The philosopher Jacques Barzun said the book ''not only describes but also explains'' and concluded that its command of the literature relevant to its varied topics was encyclopedic, and its imagination ''like Zeus's thunderbolts.''
        The writer Irving Howe thought that Professor Riesman was ''often strikingly brilliant'' when he described the effects of other-directed values on American culture.
        But Russell Kirk criticized ''The Lonely Crowd'' in his 1954 book, ''Program for Conservatives.'' Its ''facile analysis of change is interesting; but it is undemonstrable,'' he wrote.
        Allan Bloom said later that ''The Lonely Crowd'' was ''a good example of a source of vague and unhelpful ideas about virtue.''
        In 1952, Professors Riesman and Glazer produced a companion volume to ''The Lonely Crowd'' called ''Faces in the Crowd: Individual Studies in Character and Politics.'' The book provided numerous portraits of Americans and tended to support the theories of the first book.
        Professor Riesman was the author with other specialists of more than a dozen other books, as well as essays and articles. His works included ''Thorstein Veblen'' (1953), ''Individualism Reconsidered and Other Essays'' (1954), ''Constraint and Variety in American Education'' (1956), ''Abundance for What? And Other Essays'' (1964), ''Conversations in Japan'' (1967), ''The Academic Revolution'' (1968), ''The Perpetual Dream'' (1978) and ''On Higher Education'' (1980).
        David Riesman was born in Philadelphia on Sept. 22, 1909, the eldest of three children of Dr. David Riesman, an internist and professor of clinical medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, and the former Eleanor Fleisher, a graduate of Bryn Mawr.
        He attended the William Penn Charter School, a Quaker preparatory school in Philadelphia, then enrolled at Harvard, where he concentrated on the biochemical sciences. He received a B.A. degree in 1931, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was an editor of The Harvard Crimson. He went on to Harvard Law School, ''more out of aimlessness than out of any passion for the law,'' he recalled, and became an editor of The Harvard Law Review. He found time to study government, economics and history as well, before receiving his law degree in 1934 and a fellowship the following year that enabled him to study with Felix Frankfurter.
        He was admitted to the bar in Massachusetts, the District of Columbia and New York; served as a law clerk to Justice Louis Brandeis on the Supreme Court; practiced law in Boston; taught at the University of Buffalo; and was a deputy assistant district attorney in Manhattan.
        During World War II, Professor Riesman was an official with the Sperry Gyroscope Company, where, he said, ''I had the chance to get out of my system the kind of executive energies many lawyers have.'' He resolved on an academic and writing career, which he fulfilled as a lecturer at many leading universities and as a professor of social sciences at the University of Chicago from 1949 to 1958 and, after that, at Harvard.
        For a time he edited The Correspondent, an antinuclear journal, and was identified with liberal causes. But when student protests erupted at the University of California at Berkeley in 1964, triggering demonstrations on campuses across the nation, he opposed the student radicals, maintaining that the establishment they opposed was actually a delicate if flawed social web that was necessary to the continuation of a free society.
        In the late 1960's, he particularly criticized his own field, sociology, contending that it was ''becoming so politicized, it's hard to bring sober people into it.''
        ''Sociology is the soft underbelly of the soft underbelly of society,'' he continued. ''It is interesting that all over the world, student revolutionists have been led by sociologists; from Tokyo to the Free University of Berlin, sociologists have been the vanguard.''
        Professor Riesman married Evelyn Hastings Thompson, a writer and art critic, in 1936. She died in 1998. He is survived by two daughters, Lucy Lowenstein and Jennie Riesman; a son, Michael; and two grandchildren.
        In ''Individualism Reconsidered and Other Essays,'' he wrote: ''What is feared as failure in American society is, above all, aloneness. And aloneness is terrifying because it means there is no one, no group, no approved cause, to submit to.''
        Professor Riesman urged Americans to find ''the nerve to be oneself when that self is not approved of by the dominant ethic of a society.''
      