
        Stanford Calderwood, a businessman and arts patron who brought the Masterpiece Theater to public television in America, died Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Belmont, Mass.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his attorney, John M. Cornish, said.
        Earlier, Mr. Calderwood had a career with the Polaroid Corporation. At 49 in 1970, he resigned as its executive vice president to become president of WGBH-TV, the Public Broadcasting Service outlet in Boston.
        He served only months in that position. But vacationing in London, he paid BBC-2 an unheralded call to suggest that the Boston station put a dramatic series on the air -- if the money was right.
        He proposed that the British network cut its prices and that he in turn would find a corporate sponsor to underwrite the program for the American audience. It turned out that this was easier said than done despite the bargain he had driven in London.
        He made the rounds with premier episodes of ''Vanity Fair,'' ''Portrait of a Lady'' and ''The First Churchills.'' By his own account he showed them to about 40 prospects and was rejected by all of them.
        Finally Joseph Daly, president of the advertising agency Doyle Dane Bernbach, introduced him to Herbert Schmerz, the public affairs chief at Mobil Corporation, another client of the agency. Persuaded, Mr. Schmerz delivered an initial grant, the agency waived its usual 15 percent commission and Masterpiece Theater was on.
        The broadcasts began in January 1971, and they continue today as one of PBS's longest-running series. Mr. Calderwood stayed on as a consultant into 1972.
        He then worked for a money management concern owned chiefly by Yale University, counting the World Bank and Cal Tech among his first portfolios. In 1981 he bought control of Trinity Investment Management of Boston, and by the time he sold it in 1998 the company had more than $8.3 billion under management.
        Stanford Matson Calderwood was born in Scottsbluff, Neb., and graduated from the University of Colorado in 1942. He served as a lieutenant in the Navy on sea duty in the Atlantic and the Pacific.
        After some years as a reporter and press photographer in Boston and Philadelphia, he joined Polaroid's advertising department in 1953. He went into marketing, and by the time he resigned as executive vice president of the parent company, he had been president of subsidiaries from Milan to Tokyo.
        He served as a trustee of Radcliffe College, taught economics at Wellesley College and was elected a Harvard Fellow in 2000.
        He endowed the directorship of the Boston Athenaeum and professorships at Wellesley and the University of Colorado. In tribute to his wife of 60 years, he made similar gifts to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and the Fogg Art Museum at Harvarad, among others.
        His wife, Norma Jean Smith Calderwood, formerly of the Boston College art faculty, remains unaware of the endowments bearing her name. Confined to a nursing home with Alzheimer's disease, she is his only survivor.
        When he bargained with the BBC in 1970, he later recalled, he told them: ''Look, that old stuff sitting in the can is like a hotel room unsold -- it's worthless. Why not give us some cut prices and use it as a loss leader?''
      