
        Sam Walton, who as a rookie started every regular-season game at right tackle during the New York Jets' Super Bowl season of 1968, but who ended up a homeless vagrant, was found dead in a vacant apartment in Memphis on Sunday night, the police said. He was 59.
        Lt. Walter Norris of the Memphis police said that Walton, who ''used to go roaming around the streets'' and was known in the neighborhood as Boonie, had been dead for several days.
        ''We identified him by fingerprints,'' Norris said. ''He died of a heart attack.''
        Walton is the second player to die from the underdog Jets team that became a part of football legend by upsetting the heavily favored Baltimore Colts in Super Bowl III in 1969. The first was Verlon Biggs, a defensive end, who died in 1994 at age 51.
        Walton became somewhat of a footnote to the event because he did not start in the game that gave legitimacy to the Jets and the American Football League.
        Even though Walton started at right tackle in the regular season, Coach Weeb Ewbank had misgivings about his ability to take on Oakland Raiders end Ike Lassiter in the A.F.L. title game. So, in a daring move, Ewbank inserted a smallish right guard, Dave Herman, in Walton's place. The Jets defeated the Raiders, then prepared to face the Colts of the National Football League, who were regarded as professional football's best team.
        For the Super Bowl, Ewbank decided to stay with Herman against Bubba Smith, the Colts' imposing defensive end. The quicker Herman handled Smith as the Jets went on to a 16-7 victory.
        Walton played only part time for the Jets the next season, and he was out of football in 1970. He played with the Houston Oilers in 1971, his last year in pro football.
        Walton was the Jets' third-round draft pick in 1968 after playing at East Texas State, which is now known as Texas A&M-Commerce.
        Samuel Thomas Walton was born in Memphis on Jan. 3, 1943. When he joined the Jets, he was 6 feet 5 inches and 270 pounds, making him one of the bigger players of his era.
        But when Walton left pro football, he severed his ties with the game. He was one of the few players who did not attend the Super Bowl Jets' 25th anniversary reunion in 1993. The club printed a roster of the players, along with their position, hometown and what they were doing. Next to his name, the club wrote, ''Sam Walton, T, Memphis, Unavailable.''
      