
        José Lutzenberger, one of the principal founders and most outspoken advocates of the environmental movement in Brazil, died Tuesday in Pôrto Alegre. He was 75.
        He died after a heart attack, his associates said.
        For three decades, first as an anti-establishment gadfly and eventually as a government minister, Mr. Lutzenberger was at the center of nearly every major battle to protect the environment in Brazil. Whether the cause was the defense of the Amazon jungle, the successful drive to force the Brazilian government to abandon its nuclear program or campaigns to diminish pollution and pesticide use, his was the voice most often heard, though not always heeded.
        ''He was Brazil's first internationally known environmental activist, and the fact he was chosen environment minister in Brazil's first democratically elected government in 30 years was just one indication of the tremendous mark he made in that area,'' said Stephan Schwartzman, senior scientist at Environmental Defense.
        The son of German immigrants, Mr. Lutzenberger was born in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil's southernmost state, and was trained as an agronomist and chemist in Brazil and at Louisiana State University. For more than 15 years he worked in Germany, Venezuela and Morocco for a German chemical company, selling the same products he would later castigate.
        Long afterward, Mr. Lutzenberger recalled the incident that transformed him into an ardent, unrelenting defender of the ecosystem. It occurred while he was visiting a 250-acre apple orchard that had been repeatedly sprayed by its French owner with pesticides and herbicides bought from Mr. Lutzenberger.
        ''I asked him if he wasn't afraid, and he replied with the utmost frankness that he wasn't worried because he wasn't the one who was going to eat the apples,'' Mr. Lutzenberger said. ''To me, who was the one selling the poison, it was so big a shock that I quit my job and returned to Brazil.''
        At first Mr. Lutzenberger and Agapan, the environmental group he founded in 1971, concerned themselves primarily with issues near at hand, like the pollution of local rivers. But with the publication in 1976 of his book ''The End of the Future: A Brazilian Ecological Manifesto,'' his focus gradually shifted to broader national causes, in particular that of the Amazon, the world's largest tropical rain forest.
        In 1987 Mr. Lutzenberger founded a group called Gaia, which focused on global issues, and a year later he won the Right Livelihood Award (sometimes called the Alternative Nobel) in recognition of his work. But it was his appointment as secretary of the environment in 1990 that made him an international figure.
        In the two years he spent in office, Mr. Lutzenberger worked to reverse longstanding government policies that he thought favored corporate interests and encouraged depredation of the Amazon. Overcoming strong opposition from miners and loggers, for instance, he helped carve out a 36,000-square-mile Amazon sanctuary for the Yanomami Indians and pushed for rigorous enforcement of laws to punish industrial polluters.
        But his sharp tongue and confrontational tactics offended many of Brazil's most powerful interests, including the military, which accused him of wanting to hand the Amazon over to international supervision. He also tangled repeatedly with the national forest service, which he saw as corrupted by logging companies, and in March 1992, less than three months before the ''Earth Summit'' talks that he had pushed to have held here, he stepped down.
        After leaving office, Mr. Lutzenberger returned to Gaia and devoted himself to restoring environmentally degraded areas and to financing biodiversity programs, keeping his distance from politics.
        ''Just to think of Brasília makes me ill,'' he once said of the capital.
        Mr. Lutzenberger is survived by two daughters, Lilly and Lara, both biologists and officers of his foundation, and by two granddaughters. He was buried Wednesday, the first of three days of official mourning decreed by Rio Grande do Sul, at Gaia's headquarters in the countryside.
      