
        Xavier Montsalvatge, a Spanish composer and music critic best known for the lush, Neo-Romantic works he composed in the 1940's and 1950's, died on May 7 at his home in Barcelona. He was 90.
        Mr. Montsalvatge composed numerous ballets, orchestral works and concertos, but for many years his reputation rested largely on a series of chamber and vocal works that drew on Cuban and African rhythms. His five-song cycle ''Canciónes Negras'' (1945-6) and his ''Cuarteto Indiano'' (1952) were popular with performers and audiences in Spain and abroad, and Alicia de Larrocha's championship of his piano works -- he wrote his Concierto Breve for her in 1952 -- won him and audience around the world.
        Mr. Montsalvatge was born on March 11, 1912, in Gerona, in northeastern Spain, and studied at the Barcelona Conservatory in the 1930's, where his ''Suite Burlesca'' and his piano Impromptus won prizes.
        He was particularly drawn, during his student years, to the music of Stravinsky and the French composers known as ''Les Six,'' as well as to the Spanish nationalist composers Albéniz and Falla.
        His first professional works were ballets, including 19 scores for the Goubé-Alexander Company in Monte Carlo during the 1940's.
        A vogue for Cuban and West Indian music during the 1930's and 1940's inspired some of his most colorful scores, including ''Canciónes Negras.'' He also became interested in Spanish and Catalan folk music during this time. Many of his works included an almost folkloric lyricism with melodies that suggested the simplicity of folk songs even if they were not actually based on them.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Montsalvatge reconsidered his style, and although he never abandoned tonality and lyricism entirely, his works became increasingly chromatic and at times used 12-tone techniques.
        He began writing criticism for Destino, a Barcelona weekly, in 1942. He also wrote for the Vanguardia Española. He taught at the San Jorge Academy and the Destino Seminary, in Barcelona, as well as at the Barcelona Conservatory.
        He is survived by his wife, Elena; a son, also called Xavier; and a daughter, Yvette.
      