
        Bill Peet, an illustrator, screenwriter and children's book author almost as well known for his tempestuous, 27-year relationship with Walt Disney as for the cartoon characters he created, died last Saturday at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 87.
        Mr. Peet, who wrote and illustrated 35 children's books, all but one for Houghton Mifflin, was an early voice of dissent at Disney's so-called Mouse Factory, which earned a reputation for a culture of conformity. He was hired in 1937, when he was 22, as an in-betweener, responsible for the rote chore of providing fill-in drawings to make animated characters like Donald Duck appear to move. Finally, in a fit of pique, he left his drawing board one day, screaming, ''No more ducks!''
        His memoir of those days, ''Bill Peet: An Autobiography'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1989), illustrated and written in the style of a children's storybook, became a Caldecott Honor Book. (The Caldecott Honor is given to books that are runners-up for the Caldecott Medal, an award for children's book illustration.) The book portrays Walt Disney as a scowling, often morose dictator of a crowd of fawning yes-men.
        ''His humor was suspect,'' Mr. Peet said of Disney in an interview a few years ago in Hogan's Alley, an online magazine about cartooning. ''I would call it sarcasm at best. He also couldn't write or draw.''
        William Bartlett Peed (he changed his last name to Peet), was born on Jan. 29, 1915, in rural Grandview, Ind. He graduated from the John Herron Art Institute in Indianapolis and moved to Los Angeles after the director of the art institute handed him a brochure from Walt Disney Studios.
        Despite his personality clashes with Disney, Mr. Peet rose through the ranks to contribute Olympian fantasy figures to the segment of ''Fantasia'' set to Beethoven's Sixth Symphony in 1940, and character sketches for the baby elephant star of ''Dumbo'' in 1941. Dumbo's cuddly form was influenced by the birth of the illustrator's first son, Bill Jr., the year before.
        Mr. Peet went on to plan the animated segments featuring Br'er Rabbit in Disney's first postwar feature, ''Song of the South'' (1946), which combined animation and live action and won two Academy Awards.
        He contributed to ''Cinderella'' (1950) as an artist and as a writer. His character sketches for Jaq, the scrawny mouse, and Gus, his plump, dullard companion, and the story of their battle against the blackhearted cat, Lucifer, contributed to the success of the film. The fanciful demons that serve the witch Maleficent in ''Sleeping Beauty'' (1959) also bear the signature Peet touch of otherworldly playfulness.
        He wrote his first full-fledged screenplay for ''101 Dalmatians'' in 1961, when Disney asked him to adapt the British author Dodie Smith's children's classic, ''The 101 Dalmatians.'' It was Mr. Peet's suggestion to adapt T. H. White's ''Sword in the Stone'' two years later. Mr. Peet's ambivalent feelings toward Walt Disney can be seen in his characterization of Merlin the Magician, whom he said he patterned after his employer. The character was bad-tempered and argumentative, but a true wizard nonetheless. In his autobiography, Mr. Peet wrote that he even gave the drawing Disney's distinctive nose.
        At the same time, Mr. Peet had gradually been building a sideline career as a children's book author, beginning in 1959 with ''Hubert's Hair-Raising Adventure,'' the story of an overly proud lion who loses his mane. By the time he did the character sketches for ''The Jungle Book'' (1967), Mr. Peet was ready to sever his ties with Disney, who died before the picture was released.
        Mr. Peet's whimsical books, including ''The Whingdingdilly'' and his personal favorite, ''Chester the Worldly Pig,'' have sold millions of copies and been translated into five languages.
        He is survived by his wife of more than 60 years, Margaret; his son William B. Jr.; and three grandchildren.
      