
        Joe Black, the Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher who was the National League rookie of the year in 1952, the year he also became the first African-American to win a World Series game, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78.
        The cause was prostate cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Black was 28 years old when he joined the Dodgers, only a couple of seasons removed from the Negro leagues. Possessing a superb fastball, he became the team's relief ace.
        He had a 15-4 record with 15 saves and a 2.15 earned run average as a rookie, appearing in 56 games for the pennant-winning Dodgers.
        He started only twice during the regular season, but Dodgers Manager Charlie Dressen gave Black the starting assignment in Game 1 of the World Series against the Yankees at Ebbets Field.
        A strapping right-hander, Black pitched the Dodgers to a 4-2 victory, a complete-game performance in which he bested the Yankees' ace right-hander, Allie Reynolds. Black turned in another fine performance in Game 4, facing Reynolds again, but this time the Yankees won, 2-0. He started Game 7 as well, matched against Eddie Lopat, but was the losing pitcher in a 4-2 Yankees victory.
        The Dodgers went on to dominate the National League during the 1950's, but Black soon aggravated an old arm injury and he never came close to matching the form of his rookie season.
        He appeared in 34 games in 1953, mostly in relief, but when the Dodgers and the Yankees met in the World Series again he was no longer a marquee figure. He pitched briefly in relief in one game.
        Black went to the Cincinnati Reds during the 1955 season, later pitched for the Washington Senators, and retired after the 1957 season with a career record of 30-12 and 25 saves.
        Black was born in Plainfield, N.J., where he was an all-around athlete in high school. But when he graduated in the early 1940's, his dream of playing major league baseball was shattered.
        ''The scouts wouldn't, didn't, talk to me, you know,'' he recalled in an interview with ABC's ''Good Morning America'' in April 1997, the 50th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's having broken the major league color barrier by joining the Dodgers. ''They said, 'Colored guys don't play baseball.' I said: 'You crazy? You've seen me play.'
        ''I hated white people. I couldn't understand it,'' Black recalled. ''I'm an American. I couldn't play baseball, the No. 1 pastime.''
        In an interview for ''The Boys of Summer'' by Roger Kahn (Harper & Row, 1971), Black said that when he learned he had no chance to pitch in the majors, he took out a scrapbook from his drawer containing photos of his baseball heroes -- all of them white -- and began shredding it. But he kept a picture of Hank Greenberg to retain something of his dream.
        Black served in the Army during World War II, and was pitching for the Baltimore Elite Giants in the Negro leagues when Branch Rickey signed Robinson to a contract with the Dodgers organization in 1945.
        ''When Rickey signed Jackie, I was 18 all over again,'' Black recalled in the ABC interview. ''I started dreaming. And that's what happened to most of the guys in the Negro leagues. You forgot your age. You said, 'If Jackie makes it, I can make it.' ''
        Black was a graduate of Morgan State in Baltimore, taught in the Plainfield school system and was a longtime executive for Greyhound. He also served as an official of the Baseball Assistance Team, an organization that provides aid to needy former baseball people.
        Black served as a consultant for Major League Baseball and worked in community relations for the Arizona Diamondbacks.
        He is survived by a son, Joseph, and a daughter, Martha.
      