
        Samuel Mockbee, an architect and teacher whose commitment to bringing high-quality building design to the most impoverished residents of rural Alabama inspired other architects, died on Dec. 30 in Jackson, Miss. He was 57 and lived in Canton, Miss.
        The cause was complications from leukemia, said his wife, Jacquelyn Johnson Mockbee.
        Mr. Mockbee so loved the pure act of building that he eventually abandoned fee-paying clients in favor of working at the construction site with a crowd of hammer-bearing students gathered around him. He was a burly man who wore custom-made raw silk shirts and reveled in the art of ribald storytelling. His clients were the poor of Black Warrior River in Hale County, the same depressed region of Alabama recorded by James Agee and Walker Evans in ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men'' (1941). What he offered through his Rural Studio student workshop in Greensboro, Ala., associated with Auburn University, was small-scale architecture that could help lift people out of poverty by providing affordable housing as well as community buildings.
        ''Sam Mockbee and his Auburn students prove that architecture can still be a fine art and a social service at the same time,'' said Robert Campbell, the architecture critic, in a new book on the work of Rural Studio.
        A fifth-generation Mississippian, Mr. Mockbee was born on Dec. 23, 1944, in Meridian, Miss. The son of a traveling shoe salesman, he prized school days when he was home sick, so he could spend time drawing pictures of houses for his mother, his wife said. By the fourth grade, he knew he wanted to be an architect.
        Before going to architecture school, he joined the Army in 1967, serving two years as an artillery officer at Fort Benning, Ga. He briefly met his future wife, also born in Meridian, on a blind date in 1968. On a second blind date, two years later, he asked her to marry him.
        Mr. Mockbee attended Auburn University's College of Architecture, Design and Construction, receiving his bachelor's degree in 1974. After practicing on his own, he formed a partnership with Coleman Coker in 1984. The two young architects quickly made a name for themselves with designs that treated regional motifs boldly with a modernist rigor. They were identified, along with Scogin, Elam, Bray of Atlanta and Clark Menefee of Charleston, S.C., as strong new voices of architecture coming from the South. In 1990 their firm, Mockbee Coker, was selected by the Architectural League of New York to participate in the prestigious Emerging Voices series.
        But the business of architecture was not for Mr. Mockbee, who had also begun to paint in a myth-laden vernacular style; in 1991 he started teaching at Auburn University. In 1993 he founded Rural Studio with the help of D. K. Ruth, then the head of Auburn's architecture department.
        The workshop was a hands-on exercise in getting buildings built for those who needed them most. Guided by recommendations from local community groups, Mr. Mockbee would sometimes knock on the doors of the most dilapidated shanties in Hale County and offer to build the residents a new home, community center or chapel. Students conducted detailed interviews and did the construction themselves, using tires, hay bales, old license plates and other materials that were donated or scavenged. The designs themselves had a modern sleekness embellished with traditional Southern amenities, like porches and dogtrots. A new smokehouse, the longtime dream of one elderly homeowner, was trimmed in glass bottle bottoms but also recalled the sculptural form of Le Corbusier's chapel in Ronchamp.
        When Mr. Mockbee learned in 1998 that he had leukemia, he cut back on an active schedule as a visiting professor at the architecture schools at Harvard, Yale and other universities; a bone marrow transplant enabled him to continue his work with Rural Studio. In 2000 he received a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant for his work there.
        Mr. Mockbee once told his students, defining the purpose of the workshop, that it was ''about being decent and trying to provide a decent community for all its citizens,'' adding, ''It's about being democratic.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Mockbee is survived by his daughters, Margaret, of Oxford, Miss.; Sarah Ann, of Canton; Carol, of Auburn, Ala.; and a son, Julius, of Canton.
      