
        Edwin McCammon Martin, who was assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs during the Cuban missile crisis in late 1962, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Martin was a career diplomat who attained the rank of career ambassador.
        An expert on economics, he was appointed to the inter-American affairs post in March 1962. In choosing him, the Kennedy administration was seen as moving to reinforce the Alliance for Progress, a United States aid program for Latin America.
        But by late April 1962, the indications were that he had become the closest thing to an overall ''boss'' of Latin American policy that the Kennedy administration had had.
        Before the missile crisis began, he coordinated American endeavors to cut Cuba off from other Western Hemisphere governments.
        In addition, he said in an interview in August 1962: ''We want to get rid of Castro and the Soviet Communist influence in Cuba -- not just Castro. I think the Soviet Communist influence is more serious than Castro.''
        In the summer of 1962, Nikita Khrushchev made a secret decision to put Soviet ballistic missiles in Cuba. Then American aerial reconnaissance showed that missile-launching sites were being secretly built on the island.
        After President John F. Kennedy learned about the missiles, he formed a special group of advisers, including Mr. Martin, which came to be called the Executive Committee of the National Security Council, or ExCom. The group's mission, as Mr. Kennedy put it, was ''to make a prompt and intensive survey of the dangers and all possible courses of action.''
        On Oct. 22, he publicly announced an American naval and air ''quarantine'' -- a blockade -- on the shipping of offensive military equipment to Cuba. He contended that the Soviet Union, breaking past promises, was building offensive missile bases and also bomber bases capable of nuclear attacks in a radius of up to 2,000 miles.
        He also warned that the launching of a missile from Cuba would justify the United States mounting a large-scale attack against the Soviet Union in retaliation.
        Besides helping advise Mr. Kennedy during the crisis, with negotiations going on about the Soviets' removing the missiles, Mr. Martin worked toward, and has been credited with bringing about, a pro-United States vote by the Organization of American States. The vote, which was unanimous, condemned the deployment of Soviet missiles in Cuba and approved the American blockade.
        On Oct. 24, Soviet vessels transporting additional missiles to Cuba reversed their courses. On Oct. 28, Khrushchev gave his acquiescence to pulling the missiles out of Cuba and disassembling the missile sites.
        On Nov. 4, Mr. Martin said on television that reconnaissance had shown that the dismantling activity on the Soviet missile sites ''looks good.'' He added that on-site inspection would be needed to verify removal of the offensive weapons, including the Soviet bombers.
        On Nov. 20, the American blockade ceased. By New Year's Day, the missiles and the bombers were gone from Cuban soil.
        Mr. Martin's next post was ambassador to Argentina, from 1964 to 1968.
        Born in Dayton, Ohio, he received a bachelor's degree in 1929 from Northwestern University and did graduate work there. He joined the State Department in 1945 and had assignments in Washington, with NATO and in London before 1962.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Margaret Milburn; a son, Edwin Jr. of Potomac, Md.; a daughter, Patricia Martin Sanjuan of Mount Vernon, N.Y.; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      