
        Kenneth A. Lohf, a Columbia University librarian who in a quarter century more than doubled the university's collection of rare books and manuscripts, died on May 9 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, the university said in a statement.
        Mr. Lohf had various jobs in Columbia's libraries for 40 years. He was also a published poet, a bibliographer, a literary scholar and a collector.
        During his tenure as rare-books librarian, which began in 1967 and ended with his retirement in 1993, Columbia increased its collection of rare books by 275,000 volumes, and its collection of rare manuscripts and documents rose to 24 million, from 3 million.
        Mr. Lohf was born in Milwaukee on Jan. 14, 1925, and grew up loving to collect all sorts of things, from stamps to coins to bottle caps to books. He attended Amherst College, but left to serve in the Army Air Force in India during World War II. After the war, he graduated from Northwestern University, then received a master's degree in English and one in library science, both from Columbia.
        His passion for searching for rare books began when he could not find books that he needed for his master's thesis in Columbia's library. His topic was ''Graham Greene and the Problem of Evil.''
        ''I searched bookstores and for very little money I was able to get first editions of 'Brighton Rock,' 'England Made Me' and 'The Ministry of Fear,' '' Mr. Lohf said in an interview with The New York Times in 1992.
        Over the years, he refined his acquisition strategies. A particularly effective tactic was to persuade Columbia graduates who had become publishers to donate materials to the university. The first was Bennett Cerf, the founder of Random House, who gave Columbia all his files, including thousands of letters from authors like William Faulkner, James Joyce, Sinclair Lewis and Eudora Welty, among others.
        Mr. Lohf's personal collecting began in earnest when he was a graduate student at Columbia. He amassed a comprehensive collection of British poetry from the two World Wars. He also collected 19th-century and early 20th-century poets and drawings by Pre-Raphaelites.
        Mr. Lohf was a fellow of the Morgan Library and was president of the Grolier Club, the organization of book lovers and collectors, from 1990 to 1994.
        Mr. Lohf is survived by Paul Palmer, his companion of 53 years. At his retirement, Columbia honored him with three separate exhibitions -- one of items acquired during his tenure; one documenting his life at Columbia, and the third displaying books that he donated to the university.
        But his legacy includes bricks as well as books. Almost single-handedly, he raised $3 million to renovate the rare-books library.
        ''At his desk in the rosy skylit library he built, he looks as comfortable as George Balanchine must have appeared at the New York City Ballet, or Babe Ruth at Yankee Stadium, or Ben and Jerry at their Vermont ice cream works,'' Michael T. Kaufman wrote in The Times's ''About New York'' column in 1992.
        ''Like them he fully fits in and fully fills out a space he has built.''
      