
        Alec Campbell, the last survivor of 50,000 Australians who fought in the heroic, ill-fated campaign against the Turks at Gallipoli in 1915, helping forge their new nation's identity, died May 16 at the age of 103.
        He died in Hobart, in Tasmania, where he was born in 1899, one year before Australia became politically independent from Britain.
        The participation by the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (known as Anzacs) in World War I was Australia's first major military commitment on an international stage. The Australians in particular attach a mythic role to the soldiers, whose bravery led them to transcend local loyalties to their home states and identify themselves first and foremost as Australians.
        Alec William Campbell volunteered for service at 16, claiming to be 2 years older and enlisting without his father's permission.
        He served two months in the conflict at Gallipoli. In all, nearly 8,000 Australians were killed in eight months of vain attempts to break out of a beachhead below heights held by Turkish forces, part of the German coalition in Europe.
        Small and nimble, Campbell served as a water carrier, running and climbing between outposts dug into the cliffs, and also as a rifleman. After two months in the trenches he was evacuated with a fever that caused partial facial paralysis. This spared him from service in France, where Australia lost a further 53,000 troops in trench warfare.
        ''I joined for adventure,'' he told Tony Stephens, a historian from Sydney who wrote ''The Last Anzacs''. ''There was not a great feeling of defending the Empire. I lived through it, somehow. I enjoyed some of it. I am not a philosopher. Gallipoli was Gallipoli.''
        Gallipoli has been defined by writers and politicians in Australia and elsewhere as the moment that defined the national identity and character, even though it ended in withdrawal rather than victory.
        The day of the first Gallipoli landings, April 25, is observed each year with veterans' marches, a national commemoration of the conflict's place in national history. Mr. Campbell rode at the head of one ceremony last month, the old soldier's last parade.
        As the last living link to the historic age of Gallipoli, Mr. Campbell was regarded as a national treasure in his last years. His second wife, Kathleen, who survives him, said recently, ''Alec has become national property, although I'm not sure he realizes it.''
        After wartime service he became a labor union official and a government clerk, earned an economics degree, built boats and sailed in major yacht races.
        Mr. Campbell, who will receive a state funeral, is survived by 9 children, 30 grandchildren, 32 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 22, 2002, Wednesday  A picture caption on Monday with an obituary of Alec Campbell, the last survivor of the 50,000 Australians who fought at Gallipoli, reversed the identities of two other Gallipoli veterans who were shown with him on commemorative postage stamps. Walter Parker was at the left and Roy Longmore was at the right.
      