
        Noel Da Costa, a composer and professor at Rutgers University, died on April 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        A member of New York's small but close-knit group of African-American composers, Mr. Da Costa wrote music that drew from the American classical tradition, spirituals and African folk music.
        One of his pieces, ''Primal Rites,'' written for solo percussion and orchestra, was inspired by Nigerian field recordings made by his sister, Lorna McDaniel, an ethnomusicologist. It was first performed in 1983 by the Boston Pops Esplanade Orchestra under John Williams, with Max Roach as the soloist.
        He also set poems by Langston Hughes, Gwendolyn Brooks, Countee Cullen and others. In a review of ''Epitaphs,'' set to a poem by Cullen, Bernard Holland of The New York Times said Mr. Da Costa's music ''settled itself in the middle of heartland America, mixing Copland's clean vigor with Barber's lyricism and adding a nice warmth of its own.''
        Mr. Da Costa was born in Nigeria to Jamaican parents who were missionaries for the Salvation Army. The family moved to Harlem when Mr. Da Costa was 10 or 11. He attended Queens College and Columbia University and won a Fulbright Scholarship to study music with Luigi Dallapiccola in Florence, Italy.
        He began teaching in 1961 at Hampton University in Hampton, Va., and later taught at Hunter College and Queens College in New York before joining the faculty of Rutgers in New Brunswick, N.J., in 1970. He retired from Rutgers in 2001.
        Mr. Da Costa was also a founding member of the Society of Black Composers, which disbanded in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, a son, Richard, and a daughter, Halima, all of Manhattan; his sisters Lily Brantford of La Marque, Tex., and Dr. McDaniel, of Wilmington, Del.; and a brother, Lloyd, also of Wilmington.
        Correction:  May 21, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Noel Da Costa, a composer and music professor, misstated his age. He was 72, not 82.
      