
        Jack Kruschen, a versatile character actor whose six decades in movies and television included an Oscar nomination for best supporting actor for his 1960 role in ''The Apartment,'' died on April 2. He was 80.
        He had been ill for several years, his family said, and died while traveling. News of his death, which was reported by the show business publication Variety, did not appear in major newspapers at the time.
        Known to many television viewers as Papa Papadapolis in the 1980's series ''Webster,'' he was one of the stalwarts of radio, television and the movies, often playing tough guys early in his career and irascible but lovable neighbors later on.
        Jack Kruschen was born in Winnipeg, Canada, on March 20, 1922. He was discovered by CBS while acting in a student operetta production at Hollywood High School. His first job was on a Christmas radio special.
        After working for the Armed Forces Radio Service during World War II, he returned to network radio, doing voice characterizations for ''The Danny Thomas Show,'' ''Dragnet,'' ''Sam Spade,'' ''Gunsmoke'' and other popular shows of the late 1940's and early 50's.
        Mr. Kruschen appeared on television almost from its inception, portraying cowboys, detectives or criminals in programs like ''The Adventures of Superman,'' ''Zorro,'' ''Bonanza,'' ''The Rifleman'' and ''Wanted: Dead or Alive.'' He assumed similar roles in many of his 75 films, playing a Southern bigot in ''Cape Fear'' (1962) and a gangster in Elvis Presley's ''Follow That Dream'' (1962).
        He was nearly ubiquitous in television in the 1970's and 1980's, appearing in episodes of many medical dramas, police shows and situation comedies, often returning to the same programs in several different roles.
        It was his role as Dr. Dreyfuss, the bemused and benevolent neighbor of Jack Lemmon who saves a suicidal Shirley MacLaine in ''The Apartment,'' that presaged his success as the warm patriarch on ''Webster'' (1985 to 1987). In 1994 he played another Greek grandfather -- one who dies while visiting the sitcom family -- in an episode of ''Full House.'' His final role was in the 1997 film '' 'Til There Was You.''
        He is survived by his wife, Mary, children and grandchildren.
      