
        Sihung Lung, the Taiwanese actor best known to Western audiences for deft portrayals of conflicted fathers in the Ang Lee films ''Pushing Hands,'' ''The Wedding Banquet'' and ''Eat Drink Man Woman,'' died on May 2 in Taipei. He was 72.
        The cause was liver failure, The Taipei Times reported.
        Mr. Lung became known in the United States for playing traditional fathers struggling with modernity and adult children in the movies known to some fans as the ''Father Knows Best'' trilogy.
        In a 1995 review of ''Pushing Hands'' in The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that Mr. Lung ''makes palpable the Old World virtues Mr. Lee celebrates and the assurance that however rude life becomes, those virtues won't be washed away.'' He won Taiwan's Golden Horse award for best actor for ''Pushing Hands'' and for best supporting actor for ''The Wedding Banquet.''
        He also played Sir Te, a court official entrusted with a powerful 400-year-old sword, in ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.'' That movie was a worldwide hit in 2000, but by then Mr. Lung's health, long affected by diabetes, was deteriorating.
        Born Hsiung Lang in 1930 in China, Mr. Lung enlisted in Chiang Kai-shek's army as a teenager to fight the Communists. After they seized control of the mainland, he escaped to Taiwan, where he was chosen to join an army-sponsored acting troupe. Acting became his permanent career. His experience playing an array of roles for the troupe helped him in roughly 100 Chinese-language films and in Taiwanese soap operas.
        He was retired by the time Mr. Lee began casting for his first full-length film, ''Pushing Hands,'' but the director, who recalled watching Mr. Lung as a child, asked him to play the father. Although Mr. Lung had played a long string of toughs for television, he turned in a sensitive portrayal of a father faced with change.
        ''Things are so different now than even 10 or 15 years ago,'' he said later. ''I always find I have a lot to learn.''
        He is survived by his wife, Pao Chia, and a daughter.
      