
        Mohan Singh Oberoi, who as a penniless hotel clerk in Simla, India, mortgaged his wife's jewelry to buy the first hotel in an international luxury chain that bears his name, died yesterday at his home near New Delhi.
        He was 103, although for years he had said he was born in 1900 because he did not want to be seen as dating from the 19th century.
        He helped bring the Indian hotel industry into the 20th century, though he scandalized India when he first introduced chambermaids into the land of bearers, sweepers and stewards without number.
        Often called the Conrad Hilton of India, Mr. Oberoi specialized in spotting and refurbishing run-down and undervalued properties.
        With about 35 luxury hotels in India, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Egypt, Australia and Hungary, the Oberoi group became India's second-largest hotel company, after the Taj group, which belongs to the Tata conglomerate.
        Mr. Oberoi's business philosophy emphasized finding the right concept over financial calculations. ''You think of money and you cannot do the right thing,'' he used to say. ''But money will always come once you do the right thing, so the effort should be to do the right thing.''
        He was a stickler for detail, down to the amount of down in every pillow and the exact length of the stem of every restaurant flower.
        But he was also a modernizer. As a young man he had scandalized his Sikh family by shaving off his beard. And in 1957, when he opened the Oberoi International in New Delhi, he brought in chambermaids with vacuum cleaners to replace the five or six male servants who usually served an Indian hotel room.
        ''Parliament shuddered in righteous indignation, honorable members conjuring up visions of lewd guests hollering 'As you make my bed, so shall you lie on it,' '' his biographer, Bachi Karkaria, wrote in ''Dare to Dream: A Life of Rai Bahadur Mohan Singh Oberoi'' (Viking, 1992.)
        Mohan Singh Oberoi was born on Aug. 15, 1898, in Bhaun, a small village now in Pakistan. Driven out by plague with his new wife, the former Ishran Devi, in 1922, he sought work in Simla, the hill station where the British governed India during the stifling summer months.
        His well-knotted tie and shiny shoes impressed Ernest Clarke, the manager of Simla's best hotel, the Cecil, and he got a job as a hall clerk. He later became manager of Mr. Clerk's own smaller hotel and in 1930 mortgaged his wife's jewelry and borrowed everything he could to buy the British owner out. Later Mr. Oberoi was to buy the Cecil as well.
        In 1937, he took over Calcutta's once-elegant Grand Hotel, which had been closed for five years by fears of cholera in its water supply. Borrowing against his Simla property, he began a renovation program and eventually persuaded the first guest to move in, guaranteeing him soda water to drink and food cooked outside the hotel.
        The outbreak of World War II was a turning point in Mr. Oberoi's career. He prevented the British army from requisitioning the Grand by offering to reserve it for officers and feed them cheaply, though charging extra for women who spent the night.
        He then wrote to all the liquor merchants in India telling them to send supplies and name their prices. Business was brisk and profitable.
        ''Cashiers unable to count the money were shoving it under the carpet to resume the task next morning,'' Mr. Karkaria wrote in ''Dare to Dream.'' The British government rewarded him with the title Rai Bahadur for his services.
        Next, Mr. Oberoi began secretly buying shares in what was then India's leading hotel company, Associated Hotels of India Ltd. In 1944, he arrived uninvited at the annual meeting, carrying his controlling shares in a canvas bag, which he presented to the directors.
        The 1965 war between India and Pakistan cost Mr. Oberoi his four Pakistani hotels. Although the president of Pakistan, General Zia Ul-Haq, apparently promised to return them, he was killed before Mr. Oberoi could visit him.
        Mr. Oberoi then began to expand abroad, often taking over management of run-down hotels or raising money from wealthy Saudi Arabians because of India's tight controls on capital outflows. Acquisitions included the Soaltee Hotel in Katmandu, the capital of Nepal; Mena House near the Egyptian pyramids; and the run-down Hotel Windsor in Melbourne, Australia.
        His elder son, Tilak Raj Sing, known as Tikki, died in 1984; his wife died four years later. He is survived by another son, Prithvi Raj Sing, and three daughters, Swaraj, Rajrani and Prem.
      