
        Michael Camille, an influential and provocative scholar of medieval art at the University of Chicago, died on April 29. He was 44.
        The cause was a brain tumor, a spokesman for the university said.
        Mr. Camille was noted for bringing contemporary critical theory and social perspectives to the study of medieval art. Using anthropological, psychoanalytic, semiotic and other approaches, as well as traditional art historical methods, he described the Middle Ages as a time of complex social and political ferment with similarities to modern experience, a departure from the more popular conception of the period as a remote and static ''age of faith.''
        In his first book, ''The Gothic Idol: Ideology and Image-Making in Medieval Art'' (1989, Cambridge University Press), he focused on visual representations of minorities like pagans, Muslims, Jews and homosexuals.
        His most acclaimed book, ''Image on the Edge: The Margins of Medieval Art'' (Reaktion Books, 1992), explored how the higher spiritual ideals of medieval society and earthier carnal interests were combined in the antic, fantastical and often profane imagery painted onto the borders of Gothic manuscript pages. He extended this study to the sculptures adorning the Cathedral of Notre Dame in his last book, ''Monsters of Modernity: The Gargoyles of Notre Dame,'' which is to be published by the University of Chicago Press.
        Mr. Camille also wrote an introductory survey, ''Glorious Visions: Gothic Art'' (Harry N. Abrams, 1996), which became a widely used textbook.
        Mr. Camille was born in 1958 into a working-class family in Keighley, Yorkshire, England. When he entered Peterhouse College at Cambridge, he was the first student from his school to attend that university in 50 years. He graduated with honors in art history and English and went on to earn a Ph.D. in art history in 1985, after which he began teaching at the University of Chicago, where he became the Mary L. Block professor of art history.
        Linda Seidel, the chairwoman of the art history department at the university, said that Mr. Camille ''was really working on the underside, topics people had ignored before -- the margins of pages, 'unimportant' artists who became mirrors of their time, the edges of buildings, out-of-the-way carvings.''
        ''There was always this spontaneous emotional connection,'' she said. ''He would find something in his subject to recognize and then make it familiar to everybody else.''
        Mr. Camille won a 1992-93 National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship and a 2000-01 Guggenheim fellowship. His 1996 book ''Master of Death: The Lifeless Art of Pierre Remiet, Illuminator'' earned him a Governor's Award from Yale University Press for a distinguished work of scholarship by an author under 40.
        Mr. Camille is survived by his companion, Stuart Michaels; his parents, Marcel and Mavis Camille; and his sister, Michelle.
      