
        Genichi Kawakami, who insouciantly combined the delicate notes of the piano and the earsplitting roar of the motorcycle to create the Yamaha empire, died on Saturday at a hospital near Hamamatsu, the industrial city in central Japan where Yamaha is based. He was 90 years old.
        In 1937 he joined the company, then called Nippon Gakki, which was started in the late 19th century by Torakusu Yamaha, an organ builder. Mr. Kawakami's father, Kaichi, had become its president in 1927. Genichi Kawakami succeeded him in 1950 and immediately turned his attention to expanding the company, which made its first upright piano in 1900, its first grand piano in 1902 and its first award-winning piano (honored at the St. Louis World's Fair) in 1904.
        As the younger Mr. Kawakami took over, Japan was struggling through its postwar period, with people working long hours at low pay. Few beyond the elite gave much thought to learning Western classical music. But in 1953 Mr. Kawakami traveled to Europe and the United States, where he observed families' pursuit of leisure activities like art and music. He believed that the emerging middle class in Japan would be eager to do the same.
        Not content to let demand build naturally, he helped start the Yamaha Music School in 1954. It offered piano lessons for a modest fee, and franchises spread to other cities. Mr. Kawakami made sure that parents of students got a chance to inspect Yamaha instruments.
        In 1954, pianos were owned by barely 1 percent of Japanese households; 40 years later, there were pianos in close to 20 percent of households, and Yamaha was the world's largest piano manufacturer.
        Mr. Kawakami, the author of several books on music, also began in 1966 the Yamaha Music Foundation, which organized musical competitions in Japan and abroad. The company invented the Electone, an electric organ with special-effects capabilities, in 1959. Now it sells electronic and audio equipment as well as stringed and wind instruments.
        Motorcycles did not become part of Yamaha's repertoire until after World War II. During the war, Yamaha designed wooden aircraft propellers. It expanded into metal versions before it was forced to abandon production. In 1954, Mr. Kawakami adapted the propeller lines to make the 125cc Yahama YA-1 motorcycle. Nicknamed the aka tombo, or red dragonfly, its sleek design caught on quickly with the Japanese consumer.
        The division was spun off as the Yamaha Motor Company in 1955, and it soon moved into making boats, outboard motors, snowmobiles, water scooters, bathtubs, tennis rackets, golf carts and machine tools as well. In 1987, both branches became known as the Yamaha Corporation.
        Innovation based on his own observations remained the pattern for Mr. Kawakami. His son, Hiroshi, was a champion archer in high school, and Mr. Kawakami noticed during a trip that short Western bows were more accurate. In 1959, he began making bows, which became popular. The company also became adept at adapting processes. The fiberglass technology used for the bows, for example, was adapted to make skis.
        ''Diversification is a hobby of my father's,'' Hiroshi Kawakami told an interviewer in 1987. ''He gets bored with old businesses.''
        Genichi Kawakami left the presidency of Yamaha in 1977 but assumed the post again in 1980. He remained Yamaha's ''supreme adviser'' well after relinquishing the presidency to his son in 1983. In recent years the company, which branched out into semiconductors, industrial robots and resorts, encountered problems. Lower birth rates slowed sales of musical products, and labor unrest forced Hiroshi Kawakami to step down in 1992, ending three generations of family involvement at the top of Yamaha.
        Genichi Kawakami is survived by his wife, Tamiko, and by his son and a daughter.
      