
        Michael A. Bilandic, who became mayor of Chicago after the death of Richard J. Daley, his mentor, only to see the Daley political machine sputter to a stop under his leadership, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart rupture, said Dr. Dan Fintel of Northwestern Memorial Hospital. Mr. Bilandic was admitted after a heart attack on Friday and was scheduled for triple bypass surgery yesterday, but he died after the rupture.
        When Mayor Daley died in his sixth term in 1976, his machine selected Mr. Bilandic as a temporary successor, and the new mayor immediately promised not to run in the election six months later to fill the remaining two years of Mr. Daley's term.
        His deference reflected the careful personality of the corporate lawyer he had been for 28 years. Mike Royko, a columnist for The Chicago Sun-Times, labeled him Mayor Bland.
        But Mayor Bilandic quickly found himself in the rough and tumble of Chicago politics. Within months of taking office, he negotiated labor agreements involving gravediggers, butchers and members of the Chicago Lyric Opera orchestra. He brought together warring factions to end a 15-year impasse on building a crosstown expressway, releasing $1.5 billion in federal money.
        His romance with Heather Morgan, the director of the Chicago Council on Fine Arts, added a dash of warmth to his image. They married shortly after he was elected mayor. He is survived by his wife and their son, Michael.
        He changed his mind about not running, explaining that he was responding to a groundswell of support. He emphasized his closeness to Mr. Daley, saying the mayor had given him the kind of education ''you cannot get at Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard or Stanford.'' He went so far as to imitate Mr. Daley's speech patterns, with a distinctive grammar and syntax and a seeming preference for commas over periods in his  orations.
        The result was victory in the Democratic primary in a city where that was tantamount to victory in the general election. Several months later, he delightedly quoted the remark of a child at an elementary school in the Bridgeport neighborhood, where Mr. Bilandic, like the four mayors before him, lived.
        Someone had asked the child if he knew who the visiting Mayor Bilandic was.
        ''Yes, that's the new Mayor Daley,'' the boy chirped.
        But Mr. Bilandic demonstrated that he lacked the iron control of Mr. Daley. First, Jane M. Byrne, his commissioner of consumer sales, accused him of being in cahoots with the city's taxi companies to raise their fares. Though he fired her, their highly visible fight -- both passed lie detector tests -- differed markedly from the discipline of the Daley City Hall.
        Second, it snowed, more than seven feet, the most ever recorded in a season Chicago. The city's snow removal was so terrible that people guessed Mayor Daley must have taken the snowplows with him; a former deputy mayor was found to have received a $90,000 consultant's contract for snow removal.
        A joke circulated. First man to second: ''If Mayor Daley was alive, all this wouldn't have happened.''
        Second to first: ''If Mayor Bilandic was alive, it wouldn't have, either.''
        The result was that in March 1979, Ms. Byrne, at first viewed as a quixotic candidate for mayor, beat Mr. Bilandic, ending 48 years of machine domination of city politics.
        Michael Anthony Bilandic, the son of Croatian immigrants, was born on Feb. 13, 1923, in Bridgeport, on Chicago's southwest side. It is called Back of the Yards because of its proximity to the stockyards that were once the economic backbone of the area.
        Like Mayor Daley, he attended De La Salle High School, graduated from De Paul University Law School and got into politics by hanging around the 11th Ward Democratic Headquarters.
        He served for four years in the Marine Corps in the South Pacific and then earned his undergraduate degree from Notre Dame University. He began as a $25-a-week law clerk at the Chicago firm of Anixter, Delaney, Bilandic & Piggott, and worked his way to senior partner.
        He resumed his political activity, canvassing the 11th Ward for Mr. Daley, a neighbor, during his first race for mayor in 1955. For the next decade he was an active, if inconspicuous, figure in ward politics.
        At Mayor Daley's invitation, he ran for City Council in 1969, and the next year was named to its powerful finance committee. In 1974, after the indictment of the committee's chairman on fraud charges, he was named chairman.
        In 1972, Mr. Bilandic stood in for Mayor Daley at the Democratic National Convention in denouncing the seating of anti-Daley delegates led by the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
        After his defeat, Mr. Bilandic returned to private practice, then started a new career as judge. He was elected to the First District Appellate Court in 1984 and, six years later, to the Illinois Supreme Court, the highest in the state. He was chief justice for the last three years of his 10-year term.
        Last September, he was chosen to break the tie on a committee redrawing Congressional and state legislative districts. His name was drawn from a replica of a stovepipe hat owned by Abraham Lincoln. The state Constitution calls for such a random selection when the eight-member body, split evenly between parties, cannot agree.
        Correction:  January 23, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of former Mayor Michael A. Bilandic of Chicago on Thursday misidentified the college from which he graduated. It was St. Mary's College, now known as St. Mary's University of Minnesota. (He also attended the University of Notre Dame, without graduating.)
      