
        Roger V. Gould, an influential sociologist who sought explanations for social upheavals large and small in the subtle texture of interpersonal relationships, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 39 and made his home in New Haven.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Colleagues said that despite his young age, Dr. Gould was an important figure in his field, especially in historical sociology.
        Before taking a professorship at Yale, Dr. Gould taught for about 10 years at the University of Chicago. From 1997 to 2000, he was the editor of The American Journal of Sociology. Dr. Gould earned his graduate and undergraduate degrees at Harvard.
        Where many sociologists traded mostly in the currency of theory, Dr. Gould believed it was important to conduct research on the ground. For his first book, ''Insurgent Identities: Class, Community and Protest in Paris from 1848 to the Commune'' (University of Chicago Press, 1995), he examined local archives before concluding that the traditional explanations for the turbulence of that period were wrong. It was not a class struggle, he argued, but a turf battle in which one's neighborhood and one's associates were more important than economic status.
        His emphasis on hard research was not intended to reject theory but to strengthen it. He suggested that by closely studying enough different conflicts, whether in places like Corsica or in an American urban neighborhood, it might be possible to arrive at overarching theories to explain the violence.
        Dr. Gould was born on Oct. 12, 1962, in Brookline, Mass., and raised in Manhattan. His father, Philip Benjamin, a reporter for The New York Times, died in 1966. His mother is the writer Lois Gould of Manhattan. His adoptive father, Dr. Robert E. Gould, died in 1998.
        In addition to his mother, Mr. Gould is survived by his wife, Erin Graves Gould, and a brother, Anthony C. Gould of Manhattan.
      