
        John Middleton Murry, a British science fiction writer who published almost two dozen novels and several collections of short stories exploring themes that included how the paranormal might affect ordinary lives, died on April 29. He was 76.
        The cause was a stroke, The Times of London reported.
        The son of the famous British literary critic John Middleton Murry, he earned his best reviews for his novel ''The Twilight of Briareus'' (Gollancz, 1974).
        It tells how a supernova explosion in outer space leads to the creation of a paradise on Earth and to complex interactions between human beings and aliens. The book is also suffused with mysticism. The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction, edited by John Clute and Peter Nicholls (St. Martin's Press, 1993), describes it as charged with ''a strange expectant vibrancy.''
        John Middleton Murry was born in Abbotsbury, England, on May 8, 1926. He developed a passion for writing in the late 1930's while attending Rencomb College near Cirencester.
        After service in the Royal Navy during World War II, Mr. Murry studied English at Brasenose College, Oxford, and then taught at Whittingehame College in Brighton and at other schools.
        By 1970, after he had published six novels under the pseudonym Colin Middleton Murry, Mr. Murry gave up teaching and became a full-time writer. Since his early novels had not been commercially successful, he adopted a second pseudonym, Richard Cowper, for his later work.
        His second Cowper novel, ''Clone'' (Gollancz, 1972), was one of his three comic novels in the science fiction genre. ''Time Out of Mind'' (Gollancz, 1973) helped to feed his reputation. It was ''The Twilight of Briareus,'' however, that revealed his power in a form that was seen as cartoonish in the hands of lesser authors.
        Mr. Murry also published two volumes of autobiography, ''I Am the Keyhole'' (Stein and Day, 1975), and ''Shadows on the Grass'' (Gollancz, 1977).
        Mr. Murry's wife, Ruth, died earlier this year. He is survived by two daughters, Jacqueline and Helen.
      