
        Paul Jones Fannin, a two-term Republican senator, three-term governor and longtime pillar of Arizona conservatism, died on Sunday at his home in Phoenix. He was 94.
        When Mr. Fannin was first elected to a two-year term as governor in 1958, he made it his business to work with the Democrats who controlled the Legislature to attract industry to the state, enhance education and improve relations with neighboring Mexico.
        During his tenure, Arizona helped its public school system by increasing sales taxes. It created junior colleges, bolstered the state university and built its first medical school, in Tucson. Governor Fannin worked to establish the Arizona-Mexico Commission, which promotes tourism and trade across the border.
        A boyhood friend and close associate of Senator Barry Goldwater, he successfully ran for the senator's seat when Mr. Goldwater embarked on his ill-starred Republican presidential campaign in 1964.
        In the Senate, he helped American Indians with a special subcommittee on Indian education. On other matters, he soon drew the wrath of organized labor with his denunciations of industrial strikes.
        He fought to preserve the clause of the Taft-Hartley Act that left it to the states whether to bar mandatory membership for workers in unionized shops, and many states did. Repeal of the clause was favored by most Democrats, whose party controlled the Senate, but Mr. Fannin helped form a Republican alliance with conservative Democrats to defeat the move.
        He was the ranking Republican on the Interior Committee and a spokesman for the Nixon and Ford White Houses on energy policy, opposing new limits on strip mining and tighter reins on federal lands. But over all, he seemed proudest of the Central Arizona Project, which diverted water of the Colorado River to central and southern Arizona.
        With Senator Fannin as a principal sponsor, Congress authorized the project in 1968. Piping the water to the Phoenix and Tucson areas aided their development and was hailed there as one of Arizona's greatest public works projects ever.
        Paul Fannin was born in Ashland, Ky., and moved to Phoenix as an infant. He graduated from Stanford University in 1930 with a degree in business administration and became a distributor of a new product, propane gas.
        By the time the business was sold in 1956, it had expanded to much of the Southeast and Mr. Fannin had formed links to Arizona through  dealerships throughout the state. That proved an important factor in his surprise victory for governor two years later.
        Citing personal reasons, Senator Fannin did not run for re-election in 1976. Instead he returned to Arizona to promote geothermal, solar and other energy issues. He also served on the Central Arizona Water Conservation District Board for several years.
        Mr. Fannin's wife of 67 years, Elma Addington Fannin, died last year. He is survived by three sons, P. Robert and Thomas, both of Phoenix, and William, of Petaluma, Calif.; a daughter, Linda Rider of Phoenix; a sister, Mary Weaver of California; 10 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
      