
        Fernando Belaúnde Terry, the soft-spoken idealist who was ousted from the Peruvian presidency by the military in 1968 but won it back in 1980, died on Tuesday in Lima. He was 89.
        Elected in 1963 with only 39 percent of the vote, Mr. Belaúnde, an American-educated architect who became a symbol of democracy, cut an attractive and charismatic figure as he called on citizens to ''reconquer Peru'' by fully exploiting its economic potential, promising them ''a revolution without bullets.''
        But his Acción Popular party was outnumbered in Parliament by opposition groups that succeeded in blocking much of his plan for agrarian reform, which would have entailed opening up the country's interior for settlement and farming by building an extensive road network.
        This deepening political impasse left the military increasingly frustrated with politicians in general and Mr. Belaúnde in particular. But what immediately precipitated his downfall was his attempt to settle a long-running dispute with the International Petroleum Company, an Exxon subsidiary -- an attempt denounced by the head of the Peruvian national oil company as a surrender of national wealth to foreigners.
        On Oct. 3, 1968, a column of army tanks commanded by Gen. Juan Velasco Alvarado entered Lima's historic Plaza de Armas, arrested Mr. Belaúnde and sent him into exile in Argentina, from where he moved to the United States.
        Mr. Belaúnde spent the next 10 years lecturing on architecture at American universities including Harvard, Columbia, Johns Hopkins and George Washington. Meanwhile, economic conditions deteriorated in Peru under the radical and repressive rule of the Velasco junta.
        In 1975 a new junta headed by Gen. Francisco Morales Bermúdez seized power, promising a return to democracy and more moderate policies.
        The next year, Mr. Belaúnde moved back to Peru and in May 1980 he presided over the country's return to democracy; this time his Acción Popular led a majority coalition in Parliament.
        Mr. Belaúnde campaigned carrying a shovel to symbolize his pledge to create a million new jobs through agricultural projects.
        But while he embraced more liberal policies, he made little impression on the country's deep economic problems, which included an annual inflation rate surpassing 100 percent, a growing burden of foreign debt payment and high unemployment.
        These difficulties were worsened by the terrorist activities of the Shining Path, a band of Maoist revolutionaries who greeted the return to civilian rule by starting a campaign of violence in the impoverished Ayacucho region.
        Within four years more than 4,000 guerrillas, soldiers and civilians were dead and 1,000 people were reported missing after detention by the security forces.
        In the April 1985 elections, Mr. Belaúnde and Acción Popular were swept from power by their traditional opponents, the Apristas, or supporters of the Alianza Popular Revolucionaria Americana, who gained control of both houses of the legislature.
        Their presidential candidate, Alan García Pérez, replaced Mr. Belaúnde on July 28 -- the first time in the 20th century that power had been transferred from one elected Peruvian leader to another.
        That same day Mr. García announced that Peru would henceforth restrict foreign debt repayments to 10 percent of export earnings.
        Fernando Belaúnde Terry was born in Lima on Oct. 7, 1912. He came from a distinguished family of lawyers and diplomats. When Fernando was 12, his father was exiled from Peru. The youth pursued his education first in Europe, then in Florida at the University of Miami, and finally at the University of Texas, where he studied architecture.
        Returning to Peru in 1943, Mr. Belaúnde was elected to Parliament in 1945 and became a successful architect. He kept himself firmly in the public eye, fighting a duel with sabers against one political opponent and attempting an escape by swimming from an island prison where he had been sent for holding an illegal rally.
        He is survived by a daughter and two sons, María Carolina, Fernando and Rafael, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Violeta Correa, died last year.
      