
        Benjamin Welles, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times on three continents and the author of a painfully revealing biography of his father, Sumner Welles, a major foreign policy adviser to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 85.
        Mr. Welles, a resident of Washington, had cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Welles, like his father, was born into a world of wealth and privilege, the best schools, the right contacts, the highest expectations. But instead of entering diplomacy, his father's calling, Benjamin Welles chose journalism.
        After graduating in 1938 from Harvard, his father's alma mater, Mr. Welles found work as a copy boy at The Times, rising to the reporting staff. He left to join the Army in 1942 and served with the Office of Strategic Services in North Africa and the Middle East, ending the war as a major.
        Mr. Welles returned to The Times in 1946 and spent 17 years as a foreign correspondent in China, London and Madrid. He covered the Hungarian uprising and the Algerian war against the French.
        Paul Hofmann, who was also a correspondent for The Times in Europe and North Africa, remembered how Mr. Welles thrived in the dangerous atmosphere of Algeria. ''He loved having secret rendezvous with disguised army officers,'' Mr. Hofmann said. ''He just lapped it up.''
        During his years in Madrid in the late 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Welles often wrote about the most popular topic in Spain: the absolute power of Francisco Franco.
        In an article for The Times Magazine in 1960, when Franco was 67, in good health and with 15 more years in his reign, Mr. Welles confronted the issue of succession in a dictatorship.
        ''After 22 years in power, Generalissimo Francisco Franco is still the sole, supreme authority in Spain,'' he wrote. ''The 'Sentinel of the West,' as he likes to be called, is chief of state, head of government, protector of the church, commander in chief of the armed forces and boss of the sole political party, the Falange. He approves the civil governors of all 50  provinces, the mayors of all cities, the members of the Cortes (Parliament). By a wave of his hand he can dismiss a dog catcher in the most remote pueblo. The very coinage proclaims him 'By the Grace of God -- Caudillo [Leader].'
        ''To those who ask about the future,'' Mr. Welles wrote, ''Franco's reply is: 'Spain is already a monarchy, everything is in place; everything has been thought out in advance.' ''
        In other words, Mr. Welles continued, the old general would determine which of two men, Don Juan de Borbón y Battenberg, the pretender to the throne, or Don Juan's son, Juan Carlos, would become king.
        Mr. Welles returned to Washington in 1963 to cover national security, and retired in 1972, when he began research on ''Sumner Welles: F.D.R.'s Global Strategist'' (St. Martin's Press, 1997).
        Mr. Welles came out of retirement in 1981 to work as a deputy assistant secretary of defense for public affairs in the Reagan administration, a three-year stint that, he wrote later, ''would furnish me with incomparable insight into the feuds and pitfalls of federal service.''
        Besides writing the book about his father, Mr. Welles wrote ''Spain, The Gentle Anarchy'' (Praeger 1965). He was married to Cynthia Montieth, who died in 1989. He is survived by two daughters, Serena Moss of Coral Gables, Fla., and Merida Holman of New York; and five grandchildren.
        Benjamin Welles was born Aug. 1, 1916, at Kamakura, Japan, near Tokyo, where his father was third secretary at the United States Embassy. He attended Groton School, as had his father. He gained a reputation for song-and-dance antics with the Hasty Pudding club at Harvard, where a fellow undergraduate, Alan Jay Lerner, became a lifelong friend.
        Benjamin Welles's mother, Esther Slater, who divorced his father in 1923, was a Boston heiress; his stepmother, Mathilde Townsend Gerry, was known for her purchase of 42 black pearls from an exiled Russian nobleman for $400,000 in 1923. Like his father, Benjamin Welles was known as a man with expensive tastes; the son drove a Bentley around Washington and collected Ming dynasty ivories.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Welles was driven to redeem his father's reputation. Known for his impeccable tailoring and forbidding manner, Sumner Welles, a Latin American specialist, had been a family friend of President Roosevelt and became one of his closest foreign policy advisers.
        His influence and social prominence were bitterly resented by others in the State Department, most notably by Secretary of State Cordell Hull. In 1943, at the height of his career and in the middle of the war, Mr. Welles suddenly and mysteriously resigned as under secretary of state, never to return to public service.
        The reasons for the resignation were not fully revealed at the time, although much of the Washington elite had heard rumors about how this most formal of diplomats had made drunken overtures to Pullman porters aboard a presidential train in 1940. Details of the incident emerged in a scandal magazine in the late 1950's, but it fell to Benjamin Welles, the older of Sumner Welles's two sons and heir to his archives, to tell the full story.
        In the book, Benjamin Welles dealt directly with the scandal and his father's bisexuality in a three-page prologue. By his account, Sumner Welles, then 48 and at the peak of his career, had been summoned to accompany Roosevelt as he traveled to a funeral in Alabama in September 1940. During the overnight train journey, he drank heavily and about 4 a.m. demanded sexual favors from several porters. The advances were rejected and subsequently reported to government and railway officials.
        A report on the episode, compiled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secret Service, was delivered to President Roosevelt, who did nothing with it until 1943.
        It surfaced then as ammunition in the feud between Mr. Welles and Secretary of State Hull, and Mr. Hull's ally William Bullitt, a former  ambassador to the Soviet Union and France. Mr. Roosevelt, fearing a widening split in the State Department, reluctantly asked for Sumner Welles's resignation.
        Sumner Welles never recovered. He went on to lecture, to travel and to write a newspaper column and several books, but scandal continued to haunt him and his family, as his drinking intensified and his behavior became more bizarre.
        On his death in 1961, Sumner Welles was eulogized in obituaries as an outstanding diplomat, with no mention of the anguish of his last years.
        In his biography, Benjamin Welles makes no secret of his devotion to his father. Referring to himself in the third person, he summoned up poignant memories of a small boy who treasured every encounter with a  distant, enigmatic father.
        In one passage, he recalled a night in Haiti in 1923, when his father was United States commissioner:
        ''They spent the night in a white government guest house high above the clouds, where Ben fell instantly asleep in a rusty iron cot with broken springs. The next morning, to his surprise, he awakened in a four-poster canopied bed. Dissatisfied with his son's cot, Welles had quietly changed places with him in the night -- one of many small acts of tenderness which would bind father and son over the coming years.''
      