
        Charles Ede, who responded to the dreary appearance of books in austere postwar Britain by starting the Folio Society to create beautiful editions at affordable prices, died on May 29 at a clinic in Hampshire, England. A resident of Newbury in Berkshire, he was 80.
        The cause was heart failure, his son James said.
        Mr. Ede (pronounced EED), who became a leading mail-order dealer in antiquities after selling his book business in 1971, said his aim was to ''publish the world's greatest literature in a format worthy of the contents, at a price within the reach of every man.''
        His attention to detail was the cornerstone of the enterprise -- which still flourishes, with many subscribers around the world. He chose the texts, classics at first and later more venturesome fare. He selected fine typography and ordered fine bindings in various materials. He employed leading artists to create understated yet evocative illustrations.
        The success of the Folio Society resulted partly from how it gave its members the feeling of belonging to a rather elite club at the cost of agreeing to buy four books from the dozen issued each year. For an extra $3 or so in dues, they could also drop by a clubroom in central London and enjoy sandwiches and wine.
        Members have included President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines, the film director Martin Scorsese and the writer Anthony Burgess, who said that Folio ''has restored the art of flattering the eye.''
        Charles Richard Ede was born in Sevenoaks in Kent on Oct. 22, 1921. His upbringing was typical of the English upper class, but a master at Imperial Service College, a private school he attended, introduced him to the works of William Morris, the eminent 19th-century social theorist, designer and printer of fine books.
        Morris founded the Kelmscott Press to handprint books like ''The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer,'' books that are now regarded as masterpieces of book art. As a schoolboy, Mr. Ede bought a proof sheet annotated in Morris's hand.
        He won a scholarship to Oxford, but instead enlisted in the Royal Army, serving first as a driver in France, where he was evacuated from Brest 12 days after the fall of Dunkirk. He then received a commission in the Royal Tank Regiment. His father, Col. Bertram Ede, a top official in MI6, the British spy agency, arranged for him to fly to join his unit in Malta in a captured German plane. He was caught in the siege of the island and placed in command of a unit of light tanks. In 1942 he was evacuated to Egypt by submarine, and served in Palestine and Italy.
        On leave from the Army in 1944, he bought his first full Kelmscott edition, ''A Dream of John Ball.'' He also began buying fine books published by Nonesuch Press and Golden Cockerel Press.
        After his discharge, he chose to go to the London School of Printing instead of Oxford. He was concerned that the fine books he loved were becoming less available, and he hoped to marry a newly emerging consciousness of good design with the latest industrial technology.
        He founded the Folio Society in 1947. Its first book was ''Tolstoy's Tales,'' which was bound with a black spine and scarlet front and back. The going was rough, and he called the company's first seven years ''biblically lean.''
        ''He said if he'd been any older and had any more experience, he never would have started,'' Sue Bradbury, Folio's current editorial director, said in an interview.
        The book club idea came from Alan Bott, who in 1928 founded the Book Society, considered England's oldest book club. Folio's idea of giving away the first volume in exchange for an agreement to buy four more was gleaned from American marketers.
        The fledgling business sponsored an exhibition titled ''How a Book Is Made'' and printed limited editions for private buyers, including a history of the British chemical industry.
        Mr. Ede also pioneered the sale of single manuscript pages that could be framed, his son said, meaning that a manuscript with damaged pages could become a valuable new product. A new venture, Folio Fine Art, sold the manuscript pages, as well as watercolors, original prints, early maps and, later, antiquities.
        Mr. Ede's enthusiasm for antiquities began in 1961, when he saw a Roman pot in a store window with a price of about 50 cents.
        Ms. Bradbury said his interest in Folio diminished as it grew and he could no longer control everything. He sold the company in 1971 to John Letts and Halfdan Lynner, who later sold it to Lord Robert Gavron, the current owner.
        Mr. Ede is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; four sons, James Ede of London, Nicolas Ede, who lives near Hereford, and Simon Hopkinson and Richard Ede, both of Newbury; two daughters, Sarah King of Sydney, Australia, and Caroline Ede, who lives near Ludow in Shropshire; a sister, Veronica Hollis of Emsworth, England; nine grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      