
        Benjamin Ward, who began his career as a traffic officer in white gloves on First Avenue, moved through a succession of state and city law-enforcement posts and eventually became the first black commissioner of the New York City Police Department, died yesterday at a Queens hospital. He was 75.
        Mr. Ward was taken unconscious to New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens on Friday evening, said Sgt. Michael Wyskowski, a Police Department spokesman. He suffered from asthma most of his life.
        Mr. Ward, whose booming voice and strong sense of self made him seem even taller than his 6 feet 1 inch, was a lifelong study in focused ambition. The son of a cleaning woman, he earned degree after degree while working at full-time jobs. He served as city traffic commissioner, as corrections commissioner for both state and city, and as chief of the city housing police before becoming New York's top police official.
        In more than five years as police commissioner, from 1983 to 1989, he commanded the city's war against the scourge of crack and the addicts desperately in need of money for their habit. It was a wild period of heightened crime, when many people put signs on their parked cars declaring no radio was inside.
        ''He was operating with very, very limited resources, and he was able to reassure the public that the Police Department was in control,'' said Robert McGuire, who served as police commissioner from 1978 to 1983.
        Along the way, Mr. Ward achieved national visibility by becoming one of the nation's first promoters of community policing in which officers add an element of social work to their presence on the beat.
        As commissioner, Mr. Ward held a post occupied for decades by men of Irish descent. He had faced discrimination within the department, but he also found himself facing more politically risky race issues citywide.
        In one such incident in the Bronx, in 1984, a police officer shot and killed a 66-year-old black woman, Eleanor Bumpurs, who was resisting eviction for nonpayment of rent.
        Mr. Ward defended the officer for following the laws and guidelines on use of force, but could not help remarking that the slain woman reminded him of his mother.
        ''I would not have killed that woman,'' he said in his farewell address in 1989.
        In a news conference after his appointment five years earlier, he described his philosophical and moral compass:
        ''Many people make the mistake of thinking that black people are liberal because they are black. I'm very, very liberal when it comes to race relations, but when it comes to law enforcement, I am very, very conservative. I certainly believe bad guys belong in jail.''
        He often said that his ambition was to be a ''cop's cop,'' and he carried a 9-millimeter semiautomatic Glock 17, a gun banned by the Police Department. (He explained that he had received 295 death threats.) But he grew up feeling, at best, deep ambivalence toward police officers.
        ''As a young man, I tended to cross the street when I saw a policeman,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times in 1983. ''I never went into a police station for any reason in my life until I became a police officer.''
        He said in his farewell remarks that he was proud of making the department a less forbidding place for members of minorities.
        ''Most importantly to me,'' he said, ''we've changed this Police Department -- without a lot of noise, without a lot of legislated or judicially imposed affirmative action programs -- by increasing the number of black officers by 17 percent, Hispanic officers by 60 percent and females by an astonishing 85 percent.''
        Mr. Ward was born on Aug. 10, 1926, in the Weeksville section of Brooklyn, one of the city's earliest black communities. He was one of 11 children, 6 of whom died of childhood illnesses.
        His father, a white man, was 78 when Mr. Ward was born; he died when Mr. Ward was a young teenager. Mr. Ward's mother, who was black, worked long hours as a domestic to support her family. Though she was illiterate, she picked up Yiddish from a Jewish family for whom she worked, and taught the language to her son. She insisted on being called Mrs. Ward by her employers.
        Mr. Ward graduated from the Brooklyn High School of Automotive Trades in 1944, and was drafted into the Army. He served two years in Europe as a military police officer and worked as a truck driver, among other jobs, when he returned to civilian life, before deciding to take civil service tests.
        His first job offer came from the Sanitation Department. He took the police test in 1951 and placed third among 78,000 applicants.
        After directing traffic, he was assigned as a foot patrolman in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, then an all-white neighborhood where he was the first black police officer. He was never assigned to ride in a radio car except as a guard for a corpse.
        ''I was being given special treatment and being put through some special tests,'' he said. ''I didn't complain.''
        After seven years on the beat, Mr. Ward realized that his only hope of advancement was through furthering his education. He earned associate, bachelor's and law degrees from Brooklyn College, and rapidly advanced through police ranks to become deputy commissioner for community affairs.
        On April 14, 1972, he became involved in an exceptionally controversial incident. Officers responded to a call at the Black Muslim mosque in Harlem. In a struggle that followed, an officer, Philip Cardillo, was shot at point-blank range.
        Mr. Ward arrived later. He released the 16 suspects, an action for which he was later criticized by a grand jury. He also apologized to the minister, Louis Farrakhan, for violating an agreement that the police would not enter the mosque.
        Robert Daley, writing in New York magazine in 1988, suggested that the incident set a pattern.
        ''Ward has continued to apologize to the black community after shooting incidents involving cops in which the suspect was black -- not always but sometimes,'' he wrote. ''That is, he has appeared to convict the cop or cops in question, his own men, without trial.''
        In 1975, Mr. Ward was appointed state commissioner for correctional services, where he attacked some of the problems that he believed had caused the Attica state prison revolt four years earlier. One reform was prohibiting guards from belonging to the Ku Klux Klan.
        In 1978, he resigned to return to the Police Department, where, he said, ''one can tell the good guys from the bad guys.'' He was then appointed chief of the 1,700-member Housing Authority police. He reorganized the force into nine precincts, from 200 substations.
        After a year there, Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed him city corrections commissioner, making him the highest-ranking black official in the administration.
        In 1983, Mr. Koch appointed him police commissioner, saying he was intelligent and ''cool under fire.'' Mr. Ward immediately inaugurated a campaign against ''quality of life'' crimes, making 6,000 arrests for drug dealing, gambling, prostitution and vandalism in his first five months.
        He earned a reputation for uprightness and candor, partly by accepting responsibility for police brutality when officers tried to impose a curfew in Tompkins Square Park in 1988. After an investigation, he demoted two supervisors and started training programs in crowd control.
        When he retired in 1989, he cited asthma, the stress, his hefty pension and the seeming occurrence of a scandal in the Police Department every 20 years or so. The last one had come to light in 1966, and he feared he was due.
        In that regard, his departure was premature. In 1994, an investigative panel, the Mollen Commission, found that the department under Mr. Ward and his two successors was ''more likely to minimize or conceal corruption than uncover and uproot it.''
        At the time of Mr. Ward's resignation, Mayor Koch suggested another interpretation: Mr. Ward's anti-drug effort would not have been undertaken by previous commissioners because they would have been ''deterred'' by the ''risk of corruption'' inherent in confiscating costly drugs.
        Mr. Ward is survived by his wife, the former Olivia Irene Tucker; three daughters, Jacquelyn Ward, Margie Ward-Lewis and Mary Ward; two sons, Benjamin Jr. and Gregory; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        After his retirement, Mr. Ward served on the board of Medallion Funding Corporation and remained active in humanitarian and professional organizations.
        Friends remember that the no-nonsense Mr. Ward, who loved to recall his days as traffic commissioner, kept a parking meter next to his desk to limit the time of meetings. He also had a wood plaque that said: ''Lord Grant Me Patience . . . But Hurry.''
        Correction:  June 13, 2002, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Benjamin Ward, the first black commissioner of the New York City Police Department, misidentified the school where he earned his law degree. It was Brooklyn Law School, not Brooklyn College. In some copies the obituary also misstated the year he was appointed commissioner. It was 1983, not 1984.
      