
        Dr. Richard J. Wyatt, chief of the neuropsychiatry branch at the National Institute of Mental Health who made early advances in the study and treatment of schizophrenia, died on June 7 in Washington. He was 63.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison, a psychologist.
        Dr. Wyatt began his career at the National Institutes of Health in 1967 as a research psychiatrist and two years later founded a schizophrenia research program. In his years there, he led research teams that conducted some of the first experimental studies on brain grafts for patients with Parkinson's disease, studied mood disorders and Alzheimer's disease, and demonstrated that early intervention could alter the course of schizophrenia.
        His teams did some of the earliest basic studies on the biochemistry of schizophrenia and on the ability of the brain's circuitry to adapt to changed circumstances, like injury. But Dr. Wyatt is best known for helping to train many of today's leading neuroscientists.
        ''His program at N.I.M.H. probably resulted in the spawning of more scientists devoted to understanding the biology of schizophrenia than any other program in the history of medical research,'' said Dr. Daniel R. Weinberger, chief of the institute's clinical brain disorders unit. ''A good number of the major international leaders that study schizophrenia went through his program.''
        Dr. Wyatt published some 800 scientific articles and 6 books. He also helped produce a series of television programs on manic-depressive illness with his wife, whose research on it is widely acclaimed.
        Dr. Wyatt's health problems began when he was in his 30's, and he endured two years of aggressive chemotherapy to fight Hodgkin's disease. At 60, he received a bone marrow transplant and more chemotherapy to treat his newly diagnosed Burkitt's lymphoma. His final battle was with lung cancer.
        Last year, he wrote a cover article for The Washington Post's health section in the form of a personal letter of advice to a close friend and fellow doctor who had recently developed cancer.
        ''I wouldn't have the audacity to write this if I hadn't fought cancer three times myself,'' Dr. Wyatt wrote. ''But maybe you'll find the following advice helpful. I also offer the comforting and indisputable fact that I am here today to offer it.''
        Richard Jed Wyatt was born on June 5, 1939, in Los Angeles. He earned his undergraduate and medical degrees at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. He joined the institutes in 1967 and was named chief of the neuropsychiatry branch there in 1972.
        He taught at Harvard, Stanford, Duke and Columbia Universities, among others.
        He lived in Washington.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Wyatt is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Washington, and Justin, of New York; a daughter, Elizabeth Wyatt of New York; and a sister, Donna Placzankis of Cleveland.
        Correction:  June 17, 2002, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Dr. Richard J. Wyatt, chief of the neuropsychiatry branch at the National Institute of Mental Health, referred incompletely to his survivors. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison of Washington; his sons Christopher, of Washington, and Justin, of New York, and his daughter, Elizabeth, of New York -- all children of his first marriage, to Rollyn Simon Wyatt of Cleveland -- and a sister, Donna Placzankis of Cleveland.
      