
        Bill Blass, the American designer who built a multimillion-dollar business on understated clothes and a keen perception of the taste of upper-income American women, died last night at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was just days short of his 80th birthday.
        The cause was cancer, said Helen O'Hagan, a longtime friend.
        Mr. Blass was unhesitantly the first to say that he was the kind of designer who was rediscovered every few years, but although his star burned more brightly in some seasons than in others, he remained in the forefront of fashion for more than three decades. His designs, blending classic and current fashions, were conservative but not dull.
        Ellin Saltzman, a former senior vice president and fashion director of Saks Fifth Avenue and Bergdorf Goodman, said: ''He made sportswear couture. He took American sportswear to its highest level and combined it with sexy menswear touches, giving it new, clean, modern, impeccable style. He, probably better than any other designer, knew his customer and understood her.''
        Bill Blass clothes had a jazzy sportwear look, blending masculine elements like pinstripes and gray flannel with ultrafeminine sequins and fur. He loved the racy elegance of the 1930's -- the era of Carole Lombard and Cole Porter, who, like Mr. Blass, were from Indiana -- and it often showed in his fashion.
        Mr. Blass was widely considered one of the most charismatic and generous men in his profession, one whose social and business skills mingled so adeptly that he was once described as able to ''charm the clothes right onto a woman's back.''
        John Fairchild, the former publisher of Women's Wear Daily, said of him: ''Bill Blass was the gentleman of American fashion -- the perfect gentleman. And they are few and far between these days. He had a sense of being all-American -- very attractive and great fun to be with. Basically he was one of the few designers who didn't talk about himself. What a pleasure.''
        As for Mr. Blass's fashion legacy, Mr. Fairchild said: ''His clothes were always right on. They were made to flatter a woman. And no gimmicks.''
        For many years, Mr. Blass traveled thousands of miles annually, making personal appearances in stores and lending his clothes and his presence to gala benefits for charities across the country.
        His name was on everything from perfume to bed linens, from chocolates to the interior of Lincoln Continentals.
        By putting his name on a variety of products, beginning in the 1960's, Mr. Blass became known outside the rather limited world of women's fashion. Another factor in his early success were the witty ads he created with Jane Trahey, with tag lines like ''Positively Blassphemous.'' By the mid-1990's he had 97 business licensing agreements, generating retail sales of more than $700 million a year worldwide, to swell a ready-to-wear business that grossed about $9 million annually.
        Mr. Blass was one of the first designers to become part of the world of the women who wore his clothes, a group that included Pat Buckley, Brooke Astor, Nancy Kissinger, Happy Rockefeller, Chessy Rayner, Jessye Norman and Gloria Vanderbilt. He got to know society figures in other cities, too. Mr. Blass was a knowledgeable and amusing conversationalist, who sprinkled his vocabulary with ''babe,'' ''kiddo'' and ''old boy,'' and was on the ''A'' list of almost every major party or event in New York.
        He never lost his sense of wonder at what he had achieved. After donating $10 million to the New York Public Library in 1994, he told a friend that his greatest thrill was that he had made all that money himself.
        Mr. Blass respected his profession but was never overimpressed by it. ''It's pretentious to be in awe of it,'' he said throughout his career. ''Fashion is a craft and an expression of a period of time, but it is not an art.''
        In 1967, he was the first American designer from the couture end of the business to go into men's wear, and he became a major force in breaking through the gray flannel barrier. His suits in one early collection were described by Life magazine as a blend of Damon Runyon and the Duke of Windsor, and one observer called his designs the ''Scarsdale Mafia look.'' The look, featuring bold plaids, was more successful than the kilts he had previously introduced for men's evening wear.
        ''I was visualizing a Scotsman at dinner in his castle,'' he explained about the kilts. ''It wasn't right for dinner in Grosse Pointe. I should have realized that.''
        Later in his career, his men's wear -- now more conservative than the original designs -- was made by 18 licensees, who manufactured everything from evening clothes, sportswear and tailored clothes to ties, socks and belts. His own wardrobe also became more conservative, and he was known for his impeccable tailoring.
        Mr. Blass always wore the best that he could afford -- blazers by Brooks Brothers and the custom tailor Lord when he was first starting out in the 1940's, and later, with a little more money, bespoke suits from Huntsman in London. A handsome man who favored jeans and shetland sweaters in the country, Mr. Blass appeared on many best-dressed lists.
        He was on the International Best-Dressed List for years.
        ''Fashion can be bought by anybody; style takes discernment,'' he once said in discussing women's clothes, but it could as easily have applied to him. ''It has to do with individuality.''
        Mr. Blass was a three-time winner of the Coty American Fashion Critics Award and in 1968 was given the first Coty Award for men's wear. He received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America in 1987, and in 1996 was the first recipient of its Humanitarian Leadership Award. In 1973, he was one of five American designers invited to participate with five French designers in a fashion show at the Palace of Versailles, one of the first events in which American design was internationally recognized.
        In addition to his large contribution to the New York Public Library, Mr. Blass contributed and worked for other causes. He was an early supporter of AIDS programs and was a prime mover in organizing benefits for AIDS care at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        William Ralph Blass was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., on June 22, 1922, the only son of Ralph Aldrich Blass, a traveling hardware salesman, and Ethyl Keyser Blass. As a youngster, breathing in the glamour of Marlene Dietrich and Carole Lombard at Saturday movie matinees, he had no doubt that he was destined for a bigger landscape than his home state. ''Those women inspired me, and I had to get out,'' he said years later.
        He began drawing sophisticated women in New York penthouses drinking cocktails, a tableau that, he said, represented to him the most attractive life. Perhaps inevitably, the first apartment that Mr. Blass had in New York, at 444 East 57th Street, was a penthouse with a wraparound terrace.
        The opportunity to leave Indiana came after graduation from South Side High School, when he won second prize in a design contest sponsored by The Chicago Tribune. He came to New York in the summer of 1940, studied for a short time at the McDowell School of Fashion, and went to work as a $35-a-week sketch artist for David Crystal, a manufacturer of moderate-priced clothes on Seventh Avenue.
        In 1943, he enlisted in the Army. Because of his high IQ and artistic ability, he was assigned to a specialized counterintelligence unit, the 603rd Camouflage Battalion. Its mission was to fool the enemy by impersonating other Allied troops in battle, and Mr. Blass spent much of his war inflating rubber tanks that served as decoys. He landed in France about a month after D-Day, and participated in 21 engagements, including the Battle of the Bulge and the crossing of the Rhine. While in the Army, Mr. Blass acquired the polish of a slight British accent.
        He returned to New York after the war and joined Anne Klein as an assistant. But he was soon dismissed. ''She said I had good manners but no talent,'' Mr. Blass once recalled, gleefully. He then landed a job as a low man on the totem pole at a manufacturer named Anna Miller. When Ms. Miller retired in 1959, her business was merged with that of her brother, Maurice Rentner, then a well-regarded fashion house. Mr. Blass's designs gradually became recognized, he became an influence in the business, and when Mr. Rentner died, in 1960, he got his name on the label. In 1970, he bought out the Rentner firm and changed the name to Bill Blass Ltd.
        As did many designers, he lost million of dollars a year on his couture collections but continued doing them as publicity generators for his other lines and his numerous licensees. He was a prominent exhibitor at the major semiannual fashion shows in New York and continued to push the boundaries of his business, adding a moderate-price line called Blassport and new licensees to a list that included jeans, lounge wear, home furnishings, sportswear and fragrances. (Over the years he turned down offers to design coffins and dental braces that would bear his initials.)
        In the mid-90's, Mr. Blass increasingly spent time at his 18th-century house in Connecticut with his Labrador retriever, Barnaby, and neighboring friends like John Richardson, Henry and Nancy Kissinger and Brooke Hayward and Peter Duchin.
        A man of robust but simple tastes who would go out of his way for a hamburger, Mr. Blass would serve guests his own meatloaf recipe, followed perhaps by lemon meringue pie. He always maintained, only partly in jest, ''My claim to immortality will be my meatloaf.''
        Until he sold his business in 1999 -- for $50 million, it was widely reported -- he had a standard answer to queries about retirement. ''I still have fun because I'm highly competitive,'' he would say. ''If it starts to bore me, I'll stop doing it.
        Two years ago, Mr. Blass, who rarely appeared without a cigarette, was treated for throat cancer. At the same time, he began working on his memoir, ''Bare Blass,'' as well as a catalog for a retrospective exhibition of his fashions at Indiana University in Bloomington. Those projects, which all come to fruition this fall, kept him occupied.
        In his personal life, Mr. Blass believed that timing was everything. ''The secret of living is not staying too long,'' he once said. ''I have learned when to leave the party.''
      