
        Peter G. Levathes, 90, a movie and television production executive in New York who led the 20th Century Fox studios in the early 1960's, died on Jan. 9 in Washington.
        As executive vice president in charge of worldwide production, he helped to recoup Fox's finances after the huge cost overruns incurred in the filming of ''Cleopatra,'' starring Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton. Other films he had a hand in included ''The Sound of Music,'' ''Tender Is the Night'' and one of Marilyn Monroe's last pictures, ''Something's Got to Give.''
        Mr. Levathes joined Fox in 1937 as a legal assistant to Spyros Skouras, president of Fox, who had his main office in the New York headquarters of the company's movie theater chain. From 1945 to 1952, he led the Fox news and television production departments. He had a role in the merger of the newsreel units of United Press and Fox Movietone News and produced one of the first network news shows, with John Cameron Swayze for NBC.
        Mr. Levathes also put together a groundbreaking television news documentary, ''Crusade in Europe,'' a 26-part series based on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's World War II book. After the series, he took a leave of absence from Fox to serve as a television consultant to Citizens for Eisenhower, promoting the Eisenhower presidential candidacy in 1952.
        After the election, he tried to persuade Fox to acquire the ABC television network, according to his daughter, Louise Levathes of Washington. When that did not happen, he went to the advertising agency Young & Rubicam as vice president in charge of media and television for eight years.
        Mr. Levathes's Madison Avenue projects included work for early daytime television programs and early television reruns of Hollywood feature films. He commuted to Hollywood from his base in New York as studio chief from 1959 to 1962. Then he returned to Madison Avenue as a partner in another ad agency, Clyne Maxon, and later served as advertising director of the P. Lorillard tobacco company. He was a board member of Lorillard and its parent company, the Loews Corporation.
        A resident of Westport, Conn., for 20 years, he moved to Washington in 1976 to direct fund-raising and program development for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. In 1981, he retired at 70 and returned to practice law in the communications field in Washington, his daughter said.
        Mr. Levathes was born in Pittsburgh and grew up in Washington. He attended Harvard University and graduated from George Washington University. He had a master's degree in romance languages and studied law at Georgetown University.
        During World War II, he was a special agent with the F.B.I. assigned to Brazil, where he helped with surveillance of German military operations in Latin America.
        His wife of 62 years, Christine Chakeres Levathes, who died last June, had been an advertising copywriter at Helena Rubinstein, Elizabeth Arden and Saks Fifth Avenue, and advertising director of B. Altman & Company. Survivors include his daughter and a son, Peter C. Levathes of New York.
      