
        Tahseen Bashir, the erudite Egyptian diplomat who served as spokesman for the first two post-revolutionary Egyptian presidents and proved a bête noire to the third, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Tuesday. He was 77.
        Mr. Bashir, the scion of a wealthy Egyptian family, grew up in Alexandria during its cosmopolitan heyday between the world wars. He reflected the brash, tolerant attitudes of that period, becoming one of the earliest and staunchest advocates of normal relations with Israel at a time when its name was barely mentioned publicly in Arab capitals.
        Courtly and well read, Mr. Bashir coined scores of memorable political phrases that were widely quoted over the years but not always attributed to him. Two of the more noteworthy -- which he delivered in an inimitably thin, raspy voice -- included ''The mummification of the Egyptian cabinet'' and ''Egypt is the only nation-state in the Arab world; the rest are just tribes with flags.''
        Indeed, he was often quoted on sensitive matters in the Middle East, one of the few men willing to speak their minds freely on any issue of politics or history no matter what the consequences. For example, asked once in the 1990's why President Hosni Mubarak had not made more changes in the new cabinet, his third, Mr. Bashir remarked, ''Because their tombs weren't ready.''
        ''He was an intellectual diplomat who had a vision for Egypt and the Middle East,'' said Mohamed Kamal, a political science professor at Cairo University and a friend. ''He was the voice of Egypt; whenever journalists or Middle East scholars came to Egypt, they sought him out.''
        An older brother was among the first Egyptian officers killed in the 1948 Arab-Israeli war. Friends believe the trauma converted Mr. Bashir into an advocate for peaceful coexistence. In an interview with The New York Times in April, Mr. Bashir suggested his frustration with the failure of Egypt's bold initiatives under President Anwar el-Sadat to translate into a lasting peace. He called the current state of Arab-Israeli relations ''a synergy of failure by everybody.''
        He felt that the current President Bush, especially, had worsened the problem by failing to provide a coherent goal and by not pressing Israel. ''What kind of vision is: 'Come, let us fight terror'?'' he asked.
        Mr. Bashir did not write often, but he published a scathing critique of Mr. Mubarak in Al Wafd, an opposition newspaper, in September 1992. It caused a sensation. Titled ''I Support You but I Do Not Endorse You,'' it was a laundry list of what he considered the failings of the Egyptian political system.
        He pointed out that all presidents since the 1952 revolution had ruled until they died, saying each became an ''emperor.'' He worried aloud that Egypt lacked a vice president; Mr. Mubarak has consistently refused to name one since he assumed power in 1981.
        Mr. Bashir did not limit his criticism to the political system. In the article, he detailed the poor planning that prevented Egyptian agriculture and industry from keeping pace with the uncontrolled population growth.
        The article annoyed the president enough that the government revoked his diplomatic passport, but Mr. Bashir went to court and won it back.
        It was hardly his only moment of public infamy. In the mid-1970's, for instance, his first wife, Sana Hassan, took what was then an outrageous step of moving to Israel; she eventually wrote a book on her experiences as an Arab woman there. Her move to enemy territory -- even before Sadat made his historic trip to Jerusalem in 1977 -- became a scandal, especially because her husband was Mr. Sadat's spokesman at the time. The brief marriage ended in divorce.
        Just last month Mr. Bashir married Laila Ibrahim Basmy, 71, who has been his companion for decades. He died childless; a surviving sister, Ibtihag, lives in Germany.
        He was born in April 1925 to a physician educated in the United States, a rarity at the time. After graduating in law from the University of Alexandria, he obtained a master's degree in political science from Princeton University and a second master's from Harvard. He served as a diplomat until the late 1960's, when he became the foreign policy spokesman for President Gamal Abdel Nasser.
        After Nasser's death, he stayed on as spokesman for Sadat, continuing in that role until 1977. He was then appointed Egypt's ambassador to the Arab League and finally served as ambassador to Canada until his retirement in 1985. Afterward he traveled and spoke widely, teaching periodically in the United States.
        Mr. Bashir never attained the same resonance at home as abroad. His embrace of normalization with Israel was viewed with suspicion by many Egyptian intellectuals, although he actually opposed the 1993 Oslo accords as too vague to achieve a Palestinian state. After his 1992 article, his voice was no longer welcomed on state-run Egyptian television, but with the advent of Al Jazeera, the Arab satellite television network, he found a new platform.
        ''He believed very much in openness, in transparency, in saying what he believed even if it caused him trouble,'' said Abdel Raouf el-Reedy, a former envoy to Washington.
        Mr. Bashir always maintained a secular, liberal view of what was required to bring peace to the Middle East, looking far beyond a Palestinian state or the Syrian-Israeli border dispute.
        ''For while these are positive steps,'' he wrote in a 1999 article in Al Ahram's weekly English edition, ''the most significant challenge is to effect an historical reconciliation between the Arab states and Israel, a reconciliation between the Arab and Jewish peoples.''
      