
        Mark Kram, one of Sports Illustrated's most lyrical writers of the 1960's and 70's and the author of a recent book about the tormented relationship between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier, died yesterday in Washington. He was 69.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Mark Kram Jr., one of his sons.
        Mr. Kram signed a contract with HarperCollins Publishers last month to write a book about Mike Tyson and had returned Sunday from five days in Memphis, where Tyson was knocked out by Lennox Lewis on Saturday night.
        ''He wanted to write a book that would have been a meditation on fear, but I thought it would be more interesting to use Tyson as the vehicle to talk about fear and its components,'' said Dave Hirshey, the executive editor of HarperCollins, which published Mr. Kram's Ali-Frazier book, ''Ghosts of Manila.''
        Mr. Kram revisited boxing territory familiar from his years of covering the sport for Sports Illustrated. But while still an admirer of Ali's boxing skills, he portrayed him as less of a political and social force than others have.
        ''I saw a quote in a magazine that said Ali was second only to Martin Luther King in his social influence,'' Mr. Kram said in an interview with The New York Times last year. ''I said, 'What did he do?' I tried to figure it out. And it was nothing. He was about the Muslims and he was about himself. But this image was so imbedded in the public consciousness that he's some sort of saint that it's hard to disabuse people of it.''
        Mr. Kram grew up in Baltimore and was a three-sport athlete in high school. His minor league baseball career ended when he was beaned by a pitch in a game in Burlington, N.C. He attended the University of Georgia for a few weeks, ''but was home by Thanksgiving,'' Mark Jr. said.
        Mr. Kram is also survived by his wife, Rene, five other children and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Kram's writing was largely self-taught. ''I always wanted to write like Edward Hopper painted,'' he was quoted as saying in ''The Franchise,'' a history of Sports Illustrated. He was known to be a brooding writer who nonetheless wrote some of the most literary and incisive articles about boxing of his era.
        He was dismissed from the magazine in 1977, then wrote for Playboy, GQ and Esquire.
        Although he was initially dismissive of writing ''Ghosts of Manila,'' the book reinvigorated his life and career, Mark Jr. said. Last week in Memphis, his son said: ''He had some wonderful ideas about Tyson. He wanted to use Memphis as the big tent to tell the story. I'll always wonder what he would say.''
      