
        Martin Aronstein, the five-time Tony Award nominee who was one of the American theater's most prolific lighting designers both on Broadway and beyond, died on May 3 in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 65.
        The cause was heart failure, said Lawrence Metzler, his companion.
        In his four decades as a designer, Mr. Aronstein lighted more than 90 Broadway productions, including ''Tiny Alice,'' ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death,'' ''Noises Off,'' ''Peter Pan,'' ''Cactus Flower'' and ''Promises, Promises.''
        He was born in Pittsfield, Mass. When he was 12, his family moved to New York, where he attended Queens College.
        The city was also where, in 1957, Mr. Aronstein saw a performance by a traveling troupe sponsored by the New York Shakespeare Festival. After the show, he approached a backstage worker and asked if assistance was needed. An hour later he was still helping pull electrical cables as the tour group broke down its set.
        Mr. Aronstein apprenticed at the festival and worked there for five years before becoming its principal lighting designer. He held that position until 1976, lighting dozens of productions both at the theater's downtown Manhattan home and at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park. He also served as the resident lighting supervisor for Lincoln Center Theater.
        His first Broadway credit came in 1964 for Tennessee Williams's drama ''The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore,'' a David Merrick production starring Tallulah Bankhead. It opened on New Year's Day and closed three days later.
        Mr. Aronstein was not absent from Broadway for long. By the end of 1964 he had logged three more Broadway credits. During the remainder of the 1960's and the 70's, his work was there almost constantly. Perhaps his busiest period was 1970 to 1974, when he designed lights for 32 Broadway productions. He was nominated for the Tony in 1972 for ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death,'' in 1973 for a revival of ''Much Ado About Nothing'' and in 1974 for ''In the Boom Boom Room.'' His other Tony nominations were for ''Medea'' in 1982 and ''Wild Honey'' in 1987.
        In 1977 Mr. Aronstein moved to southern California, where he regularly designed for theaters, including the Mark Taper Forum and the Ahmanson Theater in Los Angeles. In 1996 he won the Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle's Angstrom Award for career achievement in lighting. He also served as an adjunct professor at the theater school of the University of Southern California.
        He also designed for the San Francisco Ballet Company and the St. Louis Muny Opera. And he continued to be active on Broadway; his final credit there was ''Peter Pan'' in 1998.
        In addition to Mr. Metzler, Mr. Aronstein is survived by a niece, Rosemary Diglio, of Sunrise, Fla.
      