
        John Sinkankas, an internationally known mineralogist, gemologist, lapidary, author and illustrator, died on May 17 in San Diego. He was 87.
        A prolific writer and illustrator, Mr. Sinkankas wrote books that are considered vital references in the field of gems and minerals. His book ''Gemstones of North America,'' first published in 1959, was revised in 1976 and 1997.
        His book '' 'Emeralds and Other Beryls' is probably the seminal work in emeralds,'' said Alice Keller, editor of the magazine Gems and Gemology, published by the Gemological Institute of America. ''It's the first reference that we would send a student to.''
        In 1993, his ''Gemology, an Annotated Bibliography'' was published. It pulled together a lifetime of knowledge about gems and minerals and took about 10 years to assemble, said his daughter Sharon Tooley of San Diego.
        John Sinkankas was born in Paterson, N.J., on May 15, 1915, the son of Lithuanian immigrants. He developed an interest in nature and science and began collecting botanical and mineral specimens when he was 7. He also had an early interest in art.
        After graduating from New Jersey State Teachers College, now William Paterson College, in 1936, he entered the Navy's Air Cadet Program, beginning a 25-year career as a pilot. In World War II, he was an instructor and flew patrols off Newfoundland. He achieved the rank of captain.
        In his spare time, he continued to pursue his interest in gems and minerals, taking correspondence courses from the Gemological Institute of America and the American Gem Society. ''When I was young,'' Ms. Tooley said, ''he spent a lot of time just cutting stones. He was a naval officer. He'd work all day, then he'd come home at night and he'd cut stones.''
        From there he branched into writing, with his first book, ''Gem Cutting: A Lapidary's Manual,'' published in 1955.
        He kept his gem-cutting and writing activities relatively quiet. ''In the macho world of the active military, an avocation such as gem cutting would not have been perceived as 'manly,' '' Jay L. Lininger wrote in a 2000 article in ''Matrix: A Journal of the History of Minerals.''
        Mr. Sinkankas wrote 19 books and published more than 150 articles and was also editor of Gems & Gemology and Lapidary Journal. An avid watercolorist, he provided many illustrations for his books.
        As a gem cutter, he worked on a variety of stones. His work can been seen in the jewelry boxes of his wife and daughters as well as in the Smithsonian Institution, which has a 7,000-carat quartz egg, which is about the size of a baseball, and a 2,054-carat golden beryl, among others stones he cut, in its collection.
        In 1984, a new phosphate mineral was named for Mr. Sinkankas. It is called sinkankasite.
        In addition to his daughter Sharon, he is survived by his wife, Marjorie; another daughter, Marjorie Coates of Troutville, Va.; two sons, John, of Los Angeles, and George, of Knoxville, Tenn.; a brother, William, of Oklahoma City; nine grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      