
        Robert Whitehead, the debonair and distinguished theatrical producer, who refused to let questions of economics take precedence over his artistic standards yet still managed to be a successful businessman, died Saturday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 86 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        When Broadway celebrated Mr. Whitehead's 80th birthday in 1996, the evening was titled ''Mister Class,'' a reference to ''Master Class,'' the Terrence McNally play that he produced (starring his wife, Zoe Caldwell, as Maria Callas). In Broadway terminology, Mr. Whitehead was considered a class act, the opposite of razzle-dazzle. During his nearly 60 years in show business, he presented some of the 20th century's most important playwrights on Broadway and was a quiet, assertive force, often a mediator and a man with impeccable taste.
        As Arthur Miller said in his autobiography, ''Timebends,'' Mr. Whitehead was one of ''a handful of producers . . . who longed for artistically ambitious and socially interesting plays and could put their money where their mouth was.''
        During the last half of the 20th century, Mr. Whitehead's name on a play (often with Roger L. Stevens as his partner) was an assurance of quality, and, unlike so many other producers, Mr. Whitehead dared to take chances. He presented plays by Mr. Miller, Tennessee Williams, Eugene O'Neill, Thornton Wilder, Carson McCullers, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Jean Anouilh and Robert Bolt, and in most cases he was an integral part of the creative process, involved in everything from the script to the casting to the promotion of the play once it had opened.
        With his mustache and carefully combed hair, Mr. Whitehead had the suave look of a 1940's matinee idol (like Douglas Fairbanks Jr. or Errol Flynn), although Williams told him he thought he looked like a riverboat gambler. As he aged, he began to look more like a diplomat, which, of course, was the role that he habitually played offstage in the theater world.
        Mr. Whitehead was born in Montreal on March 3, 1916. His father, William Thomas Whitehead, owned textile mills. His mother, Lena Mary LaBatt Whitehead, an opera singer, came from the family that owned the LaBatt brewery. Mr. Whitehead's cousin, on the LaBatt side, was Hume Cronyn, who was older by five years. The cousins spent summers together and played theater games when they were children.
        ''I always had the heroic role,'' Mr. Cronyn once said, ''and he always ended up in the cellar, which was the jail or dungeon.'' In his 1991 memoir, ''A Terrible Liar,'' Mr. Cronyn praised Mr. Whitehead as ''one of the most distinguished and respected theatrical producers in the English-speaking world.'' He had employed numerous actors, Mr. Cronyn wrote, ''but with a gross lack of familial feeling and a marvelous evasiveness, he has always managed to avoid employing me.'' Tongue in cheek, he said the fruit cellar experience was being held against him. Actually in 1986 Mr. Whitehead was a producer of ''The Petition'' starring Mr. Cronyn and Jessica Tandy.
        Tentatively Choosing a Career
        After attending Trinity College School in Montreal, Mr. Whitehead came to New York to work in the theater without a clear idea about which path to choose. His good looks landed him roles as an actor. Briefly he went to acting school, and in 1938 he began his career at the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va. He acted, worked as a stage manager and built scenery. As he recalled, ''I was haunted by the question of whether I had any talent for any aspect of the theater -- or was this a vagabond escape from responsible activities?''
        With World War II on the horizon, he said, ''The hope and excitement of a life in the theater began to seem unproductive, unimportant and selfish.'' Then he read an essay by Harold Clurman, the director and critic, and it enlarged his respect for the theater as a collaborative, even noble profession. Clurman's words suggesting that theater ''must be a vital conversation with society'' lifted Mr. Whitehead's spirit and gave him ''an understanding and an impetus that have informed my commitment ever since.'' Ten years later, the two met and eventually worked together on 14 productions, a partnership that helped sustain Broadway as a place for serious drama.
        In 1942 Mr. Whitehead enlisted in the American Field Service and became an ambulance driver in North Africa and, later, Italy. Returning to New York after the war, he decided to become a producer, at first in collaboration with Oliver Rea, whom he had met in the United States Army.
        During the summer of 1947, while acting with Bert Lahr in ''Burlesque'' in Marblehead, Mass., he read the Robinson Jeffers version of ''Medea'' and decided to produce it. That year, when Mr. Whitehead was 31, he took the play to Broadway in a production starring Judith Anderson and John Gielgud. At first, Gielgud had agreed only to direct, but Mr. Whitehead quickly persuaded him also to undertake the role of Jason.
        Then, again with Mr. Gielgud (as Raskolnikov, playing opposite Lillian Gish and Dolly Haas), Mr. Whitehead produced a dramatization of Dostoyevsky's ''Crime and Punishment.'' Because both plays were successes, he became known as a man who could make art work in the marketplace. In 1950 he said: ''Broadway has the idea that things are either commercial or art. Actually all real art is commercial. I have never seen a really artistic play that failed, unless it was badly done.''
        In contrast with larger-than-life competitors like David Merrick, Mr. Whitehead did not naturally lend himself to anecdotes, or to controversy. The stories that surrounded him were usually ones of gentle persuasion. For example, there is the case of Carson McCullers's ''Member of the Wedding,'' a modest and wistful play about the awakening of youth. This was the first collaboration between Mr. Whitehead and Clurman as producer and director.
        Daringly, he cast Julie Harris, who was 24 and at the beginning of her career, in the central role of the 12-year-old Frankie Addams. One very important role remained open: Berenice, the black cook who was the pillar of this Southern family. Mr. Whitehead decided he wanted Ethel Waters, the blues singer and musical actress.
        As the story goes, he tracked her down in a second-rate nightclub in Detroit and returned with her to her room in a boarding house. She said, ''Every night I get on my knees by that bed and pray that God will send me a good booking.'' ''Miss Waters,'' Mr. Whitehead said, ''I have a good booking.'' She hesitated about playing the role because ''there is no God in this play.''
        Before she accepted the part, she said that instead of singing the Russian lullaby mentioned in the script, she wanted to sing something of her own choice. To an audience of Mr. Whitehead and Ms. Harris, she sang ''His Eye Is on the Sparrow.'' When it was over, Ms. Harris cried, as theatergoers were to do at that moment when the play was on Broadway. That song later became the title of Miss Waters's autobiography.
        The third major role was that of 7-year-old John Henry West. Unable to find a suitable child actor, Mr. Whitehead and Clurman remembered that Fritz de Wilde, an actor in the company (later the stage manager), had a son the correct age. Without previous training, Brandon de Wilde read for the role and was hired.
        Although Clurman was the director, he had the audacity to write about the production in ''The New Republic,'' while disclaiming that it was actually a review. In it he credited Mr. Whitehead with believing that it was possible for the play to be a box office success: ''Fortunately, there are producers like Robert Whitehead and his associates who are eager to face real theatrical problems because they think of them not primarily in the light of 'investments' but as objects of their love . . . it is only through such love that good theater, and ultimately good business, can be made.''
        Mr. Whitehead returned the compliment. He said that the director had ''set a blazing fire'' and that ''the actors feel they are embarking on a voyage of danger and magnificence that will bring them into a realm of acting they have never achieved before.''
        A Five-Star Year
        Mr. Whitehead and Clurman worked together on ''The Waltz of the Toreadors'' (with Ralph Richardson), ''Bus Stop'' (with Kim Stanley) and ''A Touch of the Poet'' (with Helen Hayes and Ms. Stanley), among other plays. In 1957, Mr. Whitehead was represented by five plays on Broadway: ''Separate Tables,'' ''Orpheus Descending,'' ''The Waltz of the Toreadors,'' ''A Hole in the Head'' and ''Major Barbara,'' and only one of them, ''A Hole in the Head,'' could be considered a standard commercial offering.
        At other times, he presented Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne in ''The Visit'' by Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Katharine Hepburn in ''A Matter of Gravity'' and ''The West Side Waltz'' and Paul Scofield in Robert Bolt's ''Man for All Seasons'' (which won a Tony Award as best play).
        After Mr. Whitehead's wife, Virginia, died (in 1965), Mr. Cronyn introduced him to Zoe Caldwell, the Australian actress who was appearing with Mr. Cronyn at the Tyrone Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis. They were married in 1968. Studiously Mr. Whitehead tried to keep their careers separate, but when he was producing ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' a friend suggested that Ms. Caldwell should play the title role. Ms. Caldwell went on to win a Tony Award as best actress. Years later, he directed her in a revival of ''Medea'' and in ''Lillian,'' a one-woman play about Lillian Hellman.
        Lincoln Center Disappointment
        In 1960 Mr. Whitehead and Elia Kazan were named to head the first Lincoln Center theater company. They seemed to be natural choices, Mr. Whitehead as a producer with an instinct for art, Mr. Kazan as a director with a long string of successes. With Clurman as literary adviser, the Lincoln Center Repertory Theater opened in 1964 with ''After the Fall,'' a new play by Arthur Miller, directed by Mr. Kazan and starring Jason Robards. Since construction had not been completed at Lincoln Center, the play was presented in the company's temporary headquarters at the ANTA Washington Square Theater.
        Despite all the anticipation -- partly because of the anticipation -- the play proved to be a disappointment, although it did well at the box office. The record did not improve with the subsequent Lincoln Center productions, Eugene O'Neill's ''Marco Millions,'' S. N. Behrman's ''But for Whom Charlie,'' ''The Changeling'' (Mr. Kazan's first attempt at staging a Jacobean classic) and Mr. Miller's ''Incident at Vichy.'' After one season, and following a clash with George Woods, chairman of the theater's board, Mr. Whitehead and Mr. Kazan found themselves forced to leave their positions.
        In his autobiography, ''A Life,'' Mr. Kazan said, ''So the effort to set up a repertory theater in New York's Lincoln Center, which had started with a burst of energy and hope, ended with falsehoods and the crunch of disgrace.'' Leaving Lincoln Center was a major setback for Mr. Whitehead. In the years that followed, he did not speak about it publicly. But he never lost his zest for presenting serious theater, and he was soon back on Broadway.
        He continued his collaboration with Mr. Miller, as a producer of ''The Price,'' ''The Creation of the World and Other Business,'' the revival of ''Death of a Salesman,'' starring Dustin Hoffman, and ''Broken Glass.'' He was also one of the producers of Harold Pinter's ''No Man's Land'' (starring John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson) and ''Betrayal'' and Tom Stoppard's ''Artist Descending a Staircase.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Sam, who is a theater critic, and Charlie, who is in theater production. Funeral services will be private.
        This month Mr. Whitehead was given a special Tony Award, which he added to the array of honors he had accumulated during his lifetime in the theater.
        After the deaths of his rivals David Merrick and Alexander Cohen in 2000, Mr. Whitehead was the last surviving major producer from Broadway's heyday. In an interview in The New York Times, he was asked if producers ever retired. His answer was a definite no. He said, ''We always feel there might be another show that will give us that kick.''
        Correction:  June 28, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the Broadway producer Robert Whitehead on June 17 misstated the location of Trinity College School, the secondary school he attended. It is in Port Hope, Ontario, not Montreal.
      