
        Daniel G. Collins, a professor and labor arbitrator who had a key role in smoothing the way for the New York City contract with its teachers this month, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said Mary Kimble, his assistant.
        Dr. Collins headed the fact-finding panel that proposed a compromise that led to an agreement between the teachers and the city after a 19-month impasse.
        His work as a labor arbitrator included the police, transit workers and many other New York City employees, and ranged from the aerospace industry to carmakers, from Broadway to breweries, and from the National Basketball Association to the Postal Service. An arbitrator is a final decision maker accepted by both sides in a dispute.
        From 1980 until his death, he was one of the three impartial members of the New York City Office of Collective Bargaining, which is responsible for resolving statutory disputes between the city and its workers, functioning as a sort of municipal National Labor Relations Board.
        His reputation for fairness is suggested by the fact that to be one of the three impartial members of the seven-member agency, he had to be acceptable to both labor and management in successive administrations.
        ''When he spoke, all the rest of the board members, none of whom are without distinction, listened,'' Marlene A. Gold, chairwoman of the board, said yesterday.
        His last triumph, the contract between the Board of Education and the United Federation of Teachers, which came as he knew he was dying, particularly pleased him.
        ''I think it was a home run,'' he said shortly before he died.
        The intricate 138-page document, completed in the second week of April, proposed a minimum raise for the teachers of 15 percent over 27 months. The final agreement provided for 16 percent over 30 months.
        Martin Scheinman, a member of the panel, said that without the deal, state legislators would not have reached the agreement to give Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg control of city schools. The teachers' union would never have agreed to mayoral control if its members' wages were still in doubt, he said.
        Mr. Scheinman called Mr. Collins ''wise, studious, an excellent listener'' and said those qualities combined to enable him to forge agreement among three labor arbitrators used to working alone.
        ''He was not only fair, but he gave the impression of being fair,'' he said.
        His effectiveness reflected in part a professorial manner honed at New York University, where he taught for more than 40 years. His courses included contracts; arbitration and employment disputes; and sports and the law. He retired in 2000.
        His vision was broadened by numerous political and civic involvements. He was active in the reform wing of the New York Democratic Party and was a delegate to national conventions in 1968 and 1972, as well as chairman of the New Democratic Coalition of New York State from 1969 to 1972.
        Daniel Gerard Collins, the son of David and Mary Collins, was born in Brooklyn on March 29, 1930, and grew up in Floral Park in Queens. He graduated from Hofstra College with honors in English literature, and from New York University Law School, where he was editor of the law review. He was in the Marine Corps Reserve in 1948 and 1949 and in the Army from 1954 to 1956. Before joining the faculty of the New York University Law School in 1961, he practiced law for several years with Cravath, Swaine & Moore in New York.
        During his early years as a teacher, he was special labor counsel to the city's Board of Education from 1963 to 1968, and filled the same role during the mayoralty of John V. Lindsay. In 1968, he began acting as an arbitrator in labor-management disputes.
        From 1990 to 1997, he was the impartial arbitrator of the New York City Transit Authority and the Transit Workers Union. He was a national and regional arbitrator under a number of Postal Service contracts.
        Not a few of his cases involved celebrities. He ruled that the Shubert Organization had not discriminated against Vanessa Redgrave for her political beliefs; that Patrick Ewing, the basketball player, could not become a free agent; and that a contract clause allowed Tommy Tune, the dancer, to escape a Broadway role. When the Actors Equity Association fought the casting of Lea Salonga as Kim in the musical ''Miss Saigon,'' he ruled that Ms. Salonga, the star of the London show, could indeed appear.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne Weld Collins; his sister, Muriel Collins of Barnegat, N.J.; and four children from his first marriage to Madeline Lee, Caitlin Ahl of Cave Junction, Ore., Deirdre of Seattle, Charles of Santa Barbara and Geoffrey of Brooklyn. He is also survived by five grandchildren.
      