
        Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire and to work alongside his son, died yesterday. He was 77.
        Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had an intestinal blockage removed in January. He never left the hospital.
        Various illnesses prevented Buck from calling games this season, but when baseball resumed last September after the Sept. 11 attacks, he recited his own patriotic poem from the field of Busch Stadium to a roaring crowd.
        ''As our fathers did before, we shall win this unwanted war,'' he said as his body twitched from the effects of Parkinson's disease. ''And our children will enjoy the future we'll be giving.''
        Buck was one of a fading cadre of baseball announcers, like Vin Scully of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Ernie Harwell of Detroit, who have been identified with their teams for three or four decades.
        After calling minor league baseball in Columbus, Ohio, and Rochester, Buck joined the Cardinals' broadcast team in 1954, when the undisputed king of the team's booth was the loquacious, opinionated and critical Harry Caray.
        Caray played the predominant role until he was fired in 1969, and Buck became the lead announcer, vowing not to hog the spotlight as Caray had.
        Buck's style was more understated yet excitable. For a game-winning home run in the 1985 baseball playoffs by the light-hitting Ozzie Smith, Buck implored listeners: ''Go crazy, folks! Go crazy! It's a home run.''
        Although Buck was not an unabashed homer, he was clearly happier when the Cardinals won, and devoted fans could hear him on KMOX radio, one of the nation's most powerful stations.
        ''Well, you know our network reaches into 14 states,'' he said in ''Voices of the Game,'' a history of baseball broadcasting. ''We've got more than a hundred stations. With those kinds of numbers, how can you not have some kind of interest?''
        Buck said that the power of his voice came from hawking newspapers on street corners in Holyoke, Mass., when he was a youngster and from being an Army drill instructor. Smoking two packs of cigarettes daily for 53 years added a growing raspiness to his timbre.
        Although he is best remembered as a local sportscaster, Buck made various national forays, including calling network baseball and football, ''Monday Night Football'' on CBS Radio, and being host of an ill-fated NBC studio program called ''Grandstand'' in 1975, a job that led him to briefly leave the Cardinals' broadcast booth.
        Those national jobs led to some of his best-remembered calls, including Game 1 of the 1988 World Series. In the bottom of the ninth inning, Kirk Gibson, the Dodgers' star slugger, struggling to walk on two injured legs, came up as a pinch-hitter to face Oakland's Dennis Eckersley.
        ''Gibson swings and a fly ball to deep right field,'' Buck said. ''This is going to be a home run! Unbelievable! A home run for Gibson and the Dodgers have won the game, 5-4. I don't believe what I just saw!''
        In 1998 the top story in baseball was the battle between McGwire and Sammy Sosa to beat Roger Maris's single-season home run record of 61.
        On KMOX radio, Buck called McGwire's 60th: ''Wake up, Babe Ruth, you're about to have company. And his name is Mark McGwire.''
        For the 61st, Buck said, ''Lookit there. Lookit there. Lookit there. McGwire's number 61. Flight 61, headed for Planet Maris. History. Bedlam. What a moment. Pardon me while I stand to applaud.''
        Buck grew up in Holyoke and Cleveland, as his family followed the career path of his father, a railroad accountant. Buck was in the Army infantry, but preferred being a paratrooper, an unfulfilled aspiration until he made a jump from 14,500 feet over Sullivan, Mo., in 1996, when he was 72.
        Buck was wounded at Remagen, Germany, in 1945 (at about the same time another versatile announcer, Lindsey Nelson, a future Mets announcer, was also hit by enemy fire) and later attended Ohio State University.
        He is survived by his second wife, Carole; eight children, including Joe, a Cardinals announcer who is also Fox Sports' top baseball and football announcer; and 16 grandchildren.
        One of Buck's most frustrating assignments was as CBS Sports' top baseball announcer in 1990 and 1991. He railed at CBS management for forcing him to tone down his role to give increasingly more time to his analyst, Tim McCarver (who now works beside Joe Buck at Fox). But Buck was also criticized for anticipating the outcome of some plays that did not turn out as he expected.
        ''The people at CBS know nothing about baseball,'' Buck wrote in his 1997 autobiography, ''That's a Winner'' (Sports Publishing).
      