
        Willie Davenport, who won the 110-meter high hurdles at the 1968 Summer Olympics and also appeared in a Winter Olympics, competing as a bobsledder at Lake Placid in 1980, died Monday in Chicago. He was 59.
        Davenport had a heart attack at O'Hare International Airport, where he was making plane connections, The Associated Press reported. His wife, Marian, told the news agency that Davenport, a colonel in the Army National Guard, was en route to his office in Virginia.
        Davenport was one of America's premier hurdlers, competing in four Olympics. He equaled the Olympic record when he captured the 110-meter hurdles in 13.3 seconds at the 1968 Mexico City Games. He won a bronze medal in the event at the 1976 Olympics and also competed at the 1964 and 1972 Games.
        He also excelled in the 60-yard hurdles, an indoor event not part of the Olympic program. Davenport was national champion in the 60-yard event in 1966, 1967 and from 1969 to 1971.
        He was a member of the No. 1 four-man American bobsled team that finished 12th at the 1980 Winter Olympics. Davenport, and another member of his sled, Jeff Gadley, were the first black Olympic bobsledders.
        Davenport was a member of the USA Track and Field Hall of Fame and the Olympic Hall of Fame. A native of Troy, Ala., he had competed at Southern University of Baton Rouge, La.
        Davenport began running the hurdles at Howland High School in Warren, Ohio, then became an Army paratrooper. While in military service, he made the 1964 Olympic team, but a pulled thigh muscle kept him out of the finals.
        His greatest moment came four years later, when he won gold at Mexico City. But the victory was overshadowed by the turbulent racial times. His postrace news conference came just as the black American sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos were raising black-gloved fists on the victory stand in social protest.
        ''I noticed that no one was asking me about the race,'' Davenport once recalled. ''All they were interested in asking were racial questions. So I said: 'Hey, I came here to do a job, and I did it. If you don't have a question about my race, I don't have anything more to say.' ''
        Davenport recorded seven world indoor bests and swept every race on the indoor circuit in 1969. But he was usually bypassed for the award as outstanding athlete at the meets and thought that the racial atmosphere might have been a factor.
        ''I wonder if they would have given it to me if I were white,'' he said one night after another outstanding performance failed to gain recognition. The remarks gained attention and he was voted the outstanding athlete at another meet the next week.
        Davenport competed as an Olympic bobsledder although he had not been in a sled until the December before the Lake Placid Games. He said the most difficult aspect was not handling the treacherous curves but loosening up in the cold weather. His skill at leaving the starting blocks in track served him well because bobsledders take a track-type stance as they prepare to approach their sled.
        Davenport, who lived in Baton Rouge, was due to retire from the National Guard in 90 days, his wife told The Associated Press. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Mark, and six siblings.
        As for his prowess in the hurdles, Davenport told Time magazine in 1969 that ''the secret of my success is staying relaxed.''
        Asked what kept him loose, he replied: ''Pressure. I thrive on pressure.''
        His mind-set enabled him to surmount injuries that may have deterred other superb athletes.
        In making his fourth Olympics, at Montreal in 1976, he came back from a severe injury.
        ''It was the semifinals of the A.A.U. outdoor championships in 1975,'' he recalled in an interview with Red Smith of The New York Times four years later. ''Taking off for a hurdle, I busted a tendon in my left knee. I had surgery the next day, and two days later I had a blood clot in my right lung. The surgeon wasn't very optimistic. He told me I would walk with a limp and should forget about running. That was June. By January I was hurdling again, and that summer I won the Olympic bronze.''
        Davenport was asked whether therapy was the answer.
        ''It was mostly willpower,'' he replied.
      