
        Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals' games positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire, and to call games with his son, died Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 77.
        Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had an intestinal blockage removed in January and never left the hospital.
        Last year, when baseball resumed after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, he recited his own patriotic poem from the infield of Busch Stadium.
        ''As our fathers did before, we shall win this unwanted war,'' he said, as his body twitched from Parkinson's disease. ''And our children will enjoy the future we'll be giving.''
        Buck was among a shrinking fraternity of baseball announcers, including Vin Scully of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Ernie Harwell of the Detroit Tigers and Ralph Kiner and Bob Murphy of the Mets, who have been identified with their teams for decades.
        After calling minor league baseball in Columbus, Ohio, and Rochester, Buck joined the Cardinals' broadcast team in 1954, when the other announcers played sidekicks to the loquacious Harry Caray.
        Caray was fired in 1969 and Buck became the team's lead voice.
        Buck's style was more understated yet excitable, his voice strong and gravelly. For a game-winning home run in the 1985 baseball playoffs for St. Louis by Ozzie Smith, Buck shouted: ''Go crazy, folks! Go crazy! It's a home run.''
        Buck also held various national postings, including baseball and football on network television and ''Monday Night Football'' on CBS Radio.
        The national jobs led to some of his best-remembered calls, particularly one when the gimpy-legged Dodger Kirk Gibson slugged a pinch-hit home run against the Oakland A's to win Game 1 of the 1988 World Series.
        ''Unbelievable!'' Buck said as the ball soared beyond the right field fence. ''A home run for Gibson, and the Dodgers have won the game, 5-4. I don't believe what I just saw!''
        In 1998, McGwire was chasing Roger Maris's single-season home run record of 61. For the historic tying homer, Buck said: ''Lookit there. Lookit there. Lookit there. McGwire's No. 61. Flight 61, headed for Planet Maris. History. Bedlam. What a moment. Pardon me while I stand to applaud.''
        Buck grew up in Holyoke, Mass., and Cleveland and served in the Army infantry. He wanted to be a paratrooper, an aspiration that went unfulfilled, but he made a jump from 14,500 feet in 1996 -- at age 72. When he returned from service in World War II, he attended Ohio State.
        He is survived by his wife, Carole; five daughters; three sons, including Joe, a Cardinals announcer who is also Fox Sports' leading baseball and football announcer; and 16 grandchildren.
        One of Buck's most frustrating jobs was as CBS Sports' top baseball announcer in 1990 and 1991. He scorned CBS management for forcing him to reduce his role to give more time to his partner, Tim McCarver, but he was also criticized for anticipating the outcome of some plays.
        ''The people at CBS know nothing about baseball,'' Buck wrote in his 1997 autobiography, ''That's a Winner!'' (Sports Publishing).
        He never recruited his son to be a sportscaster, but the younger Buck took to it easily and became a full-time Cardinals announcer at age 21.
        ''I followed him into the parking lot after games and held his beer while he signed autographs for fans he delighted from spring to fall, year after year,'' Joe Buck wrote about his father in ''What Baseball Means to Me,'' edited by Curt Smith (Warner, 2002). ''Baseball is what binds me to the man I most admire.''
      