
        Dr. Bernie Zilbergeld, a psychologist whose widely read books helped debunk popular assumptions about male sexuality, died on June 12 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 62.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his daughter, Claire Zilbergeld.
        In his 1978 book ''Male Sexuality,'' Dr. Zilbergeld challenged the idea that male sexual function was simple and problem-free. Instead, he wrote, it is at least as ''complex, mysterious and full of problems as female sexuality.''
        The book, along with its updated edition, published in 1992, sold more than a million copies and is still in print. It sought to explore and discredit such long-held notions as, in Dr. Zilbergeld's words, ''a man always wants and is always ready to have sex,'' ''sex equals intercourse'' and ''good sex requires orgasm.''
        In The New York Times Book Review, Dr. Alex Comfort, the author of ''The Joy of Sex,'' praised Dr. Zilbergeld's book for offering ''enormous reassurance and first aid'' to men anxious about their sexual performance.
        Published at a time when there was little popular literature on male sexuality, the book was an immediate hit and is still widely cited.
        ''It was the first book to really deal with male sexual problems in a self-help fashion,'' said Dr. Lonnie Barbach, an author and psychologist who specializes in marital and sex therapy. ''Men who suffered from erection or ejaculation problems, for instance, now had advice and something to help them. The book walked the reader step by step through their troubles so they could solve their problems on their own.''
        Dr. Zilbergeld gained prominence in the late 70's by challenging the well-known findings of William H. Masters and Virginia E. Johnson on sexual dysfunction. In a 1980 article in Psychology Today, Dr. Zilbergeld and a colleague wrote: ''Masters and Johnson's sex therapy research is so flawed by methodological errors and slipshod reporting that it fails to meet customary standards -- and their own -- for evaluation. This raises serious questions about the effectiveness of the discipline they created.''
        Three years later, he wrote ''The Shrinking of America'' (1983), which questioned much of the existing research on psychotherapy and its usefulness.
        ''He was always willing to confront ingrained beliefs and principles and challenge their validity,'' said Dr. Jackie Hackel, a clinical psychologist in Oakland. ''He wasn't afraid to stir people up and talk about things that were overlooked.''
        Shortly after obtaining his degrees in the early 70's, Dr. Zilbergeld became one of the original directors of training at the innovative Human Sexuality Program at the University of California Medical School, one of the first programs to treat sexual problems in a clinical setting.
        Before his death, Dr. Zilbergeld completed another book, which focused on couples over 50 who are very active physically in and out of the bedroom, Dr. Barbach said. The manuscript is under contract to Bantam Books.
        Bernie Zilbergeld was born on June 28, 1939, in Freehold, N.J. He graduated from Ohio State University and earned his Ph.D. from the University of California.
        In addition to his daughter, Claire, of San Francisco, he is survived by his companion, Marilynn Greene of Walnut Creek, Calif.; a son, Ian Cox of San Francisco; a brother, George Zilbergeld of Freehold; a sister, Hannah Gordon of New York; and a stepbrother, Steve Stegman of New York. His marriage, to Charlotte Hilton, ended in divorce.
      