
        James Merriam Howard Jr., a leading advocate of using writing as a tool for helping improve performance and thinking in all areas of the curriculum, died on Tuesday at a hospital close to his home in Westport Point, Mass. He was 80.
        His 1983 book, ''Writing to Learn,'' became a widely used handbook on how to teach writing not as a skill in itself but to improve thinking and understanding. It propelled him into the national spotlight in the search of remedies for what was known in the 1980's as ''the writing crisis.''
        ''My own very strong persuasion is that the condition of literacy in the schools is not going to improve much until the teachers of all subjects make better use of writing in their subjects,'' Mr. Howard said in 1982, when he was an editor at the Council for Basic Education, a Washington-based organization working for high academic standards in the nation's public schools.
        In the 80's, he conducted workshops in public school systems around the country, with an emphasis on having writing taught by teachers of all subjects, not just English. He also led writing seminars for staff members of the Department of Justice, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Health and Human Services.
        Before he emerged as a nationally known writing expert, Mr. Howard was the headmaster of Blair Academy, a private boarding school in Morristown, N.J., for 22 years. He was a 1943 graduate of Yale and received a master's degree from Harvard University in 1952.
        He is survived by his wife, Selena; a son, James M. III, of Wayland, Mass.; three daughters, Alida Howard Woods of Asheville, N.C., Mollie Howard Conklin of Warsaw, Va., and Eleanor Howard Elmer of Portsmouth, R.I.; and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 22, 2002, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about James Merriam Howard Jr., an expert on writing and education, misstated the location of Blair Academy, the private boarding school in New Jersey where he was a headmaster. It is in Blairstown, not Morristown.
      