
        Camilo José Cela, winner of the 1989 Nobel Prize in Literature who was as well known in his native Spain for his sardonic humor and irascible personality as he was for his writing, died today at a Madrid hospital. He was 85.
        Mr. Cela made his reputation with his first -- and many say his best -- novel, ''The Family of Pascual Duarte,'' which is said to be the most widely translated Spanish novel after Cervantes's ''Don Quixote.'' Among his other popular books, ''The Hive,'' ''Mazurka for Two Dead Men,'' ''San Camilo, 1936'' and ''Journey to the Alcarría'' have also been translated into English.
        Although relatively unknown in the English-speaking world when he won the Nobel Prize, Mr. Cela (pronounced SAY-lah) was admired in Spain and Latin America for the direct and rich way he used the Spanish language, although his literary themes, he once said, were universal -- ''love, life, death, sickness, misery, the same as everywhere else.''
        In his later years he championed the Spanish language, lamenting its demise in former Spanish colonies like the Philippines, Equatorial Guinea and Western Sahara. ''I will never rest in insisting on the obvious,'' he once noted, ''the defense of languages, of all languages and, in this case, of the Spanish language.''
        Mr. Cela considered himself a loner, but his readiness to offer controversial and irreverent opinions on every imaginable subject ensured that he was constantly in the spotlight. His low opinion of journalists, literary critics, intellectuals and most fellow authors -- whom he variously described as bureaucratic, stupid, opportunistic and mediocre -- further ensured that he never went unnoticed.
        To those who accused him of being arrogant, he once answered: ''Of course I am. It's like blaming someone for being blond or brunette.''
        But if he was not widely loved in the left-leaning intellectual circles of post-Franco Spain, it was also because, as a young man, he fought alongside Gen. Francisco Franco's forces in the Spanish Civil War and worked briefly as a censor of small-circulation magazines during Franco's dictatorship. Pointedly, he was awarded the top literary honor in Spain, the Cervantes Prize, six years after receiving the Nobel Prize.
        Born on May 11, 1916, in Iria Flavia in the Galician province of Coruña to a Spanish father and English mother, Mr. Cela studied medicine, philosophy and law in Madrid before being drawn into the civil war. He then tried his hand at bullfighting, painting and acting before devoting himself to literature.
        Although he was considered a Franco sympathizer, ''The Family of Pascual Duarte,'' written in 1942, was originally banned in Spain and was initially published in Buenos Aires. That novel, set in the impoverished region of Extremadura, tells of a Spanish peasant who cannot suppress a killer's instinct instilled in him by a hostile environment. Many of Mr. Cela's books evoked the civil war, including ''The Hive,'' ''San Camilo, 1936'' and ''Mazurka for Two Dead Men,'' which is set in Galicia during the first four decades of the 20th century.
        Reviewing ''Mazurka for Two Dead Men'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1992, the literary critic Roberto González Echevarría  said its grandeur ''lies precisely in its blurring of the line between the written language of novels,'' he wrote, ''and the aural, poetic speech of tragedy.''
        In awarding Mr. Cela the Nobel, the Swedish Academy praised his ''rich and intensive prose, which with restrained compassion forms a challenging vision of man's vulnerability.'' It also noted the experimental use of language in his work, which, by his death, amounted to 14 novels and 60 volumes of short stories, poetry, essays and travelogues.
        ''In him is united a marked fondness for experiment with a provocative attitude,'' the Swedish Academy said. ''At the same time, he can be included in an old Spanish tradition of hilarious grotesqueness, which is often the other side of despair. Compassion for man's hopeless suffering is there, but tightly controlled.''
        Asked whether he had been eager to win the Nobel, he said, ''No more than other writers, with the only difference that I won it.'' One year later, describing the disarray that the prize brought to his life, he wrote: ''I received 37,310 telegrams and 110,109 letters, if I did not get muddled in the counting, and for several weeks I had so many visits and calls that they would not fit into the 24 hours of each day.''
        As it happens, the Nobel came when he was already in the limelight in Spain after he left his wife of 44 years, Rosario Conde, to live with a radio journalist, Marina Castaño,  who was less than half his age. (They married in 1991.) Mr. Cela is survived by Ms. Castaño and a son, also Camilo José, from his first marriage.
        Evidently, he took pleasure in shocking the Spanish public. In 1968, for instance, he published ''Secret Dictionary,'' a compilation of words and phrases -- many vulgar or blasphemous -- used by Spaniards in daily speech but not in print. In the 1980's he appeared in a television series in which he returned to the region he described 30 years earlier in ''Journey to the Alcarría'' in the comfort of a Rolls-Royce driven by a beautiful woman dressed in white gowns.
        Despite his complex and theatrical personality, Mr. Cela's view of literature was simple. ''You just have to look around to see that reality goes beyond fiction,'' he said. ''I think it was Proust who said that everything has already been said, but, since no one pays attention, it has to be repeated every morning.''
      