
        Darryl Kile, a veteran pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals who had one of the most effective curveballs in the major leagues, was found dead Saturday in a hotel room in Chicago, a day before he was supposed to pitch against the Cubs in a nationally televised game. He was 33.
        Dr. Edmund Donoghue, the chief medical examiner of Cook County in Illinois, said that Kile had blockages in his coronary arteries. A final determination on the cause of death will await tests that are expected to take four to six weeks.
        Kile, a right-hander, was in his 12th season in the major leagues and had a record of 133 victories and 119 defeats.
        His best seasons were 1997 with the Houston Astros, the team that selected him in the 30th round of the amateur draft out of Chaffey College in California in 1988, and 2000 with the Cardinals, who had traded for him the previous November. Kile was 19-7 with the Astros in 1997 (he also pitched a no-hitter for them in 1993) and was 20-9 with the Cardinals in 2000.
        In between, however, he pitched for the Colorado Rockies, whom he opted to play for when he became a free agent after the 1997 season. The Astros wanted him to stay, but he instead took the Rockies' offer of three years for $24 million and went to work at Coors Field, notorious as a hitters' ballpark.
        In 1998, Kile led the National League in losses with 17. In two years with Colorado, he was 21-30. As many pitchers before him learned to their dismay, curveballs did not work the same way in the mile-high altitude of Denver as they do in places like Houston and St. Louis.
        Don Baylor, who was the Rockies' manager their first six years, including Kile's first season there, said he was eager to get Kile for his starting rotation.
        ''When we brought him into Colorado during the winter, I told Jerry McMorris, our owner, 'We cannot lose this guy like we lost Craig Biggio,' '' Baylor said by telephone Saturday, referring to another Houston player. ''We had a shot at Biggio the year before and didn't get him.''
        The Rockies were successful, but Kile was not. Yet he refused to blame the environment for his failure.
        ''He and Greg Harris were the only guys who didn't blame the ballpark,'' Baylor said. ''He said, 'They hit my breaking ball.' ''
        Even after he left Colorado and won 20 games for the Cardinals, pitching in his only All-Star Game that season and helping pitch the team into the National League Championship Series, Kile did not express any regret for his decision to play in Colorado.
        ''I think it's a good place to play,'' he said in an interview the spring after his 20 victories in St. Louis. Did he or the park cause his problems? ''Of course it was me,'' he said. ''I didn't pitch real well. You don't make good pitches, you're going to get hit.
        ''Every park is different,'' he added. ''Every place you pitch has unique characteristics. You've got to learn to pitch well there.''
        Kile liked Colorado so much that he and his family continued living there after he was traded. He is survived by his wife, Flynn, and their three children, 5-year-old twins, Kannon, a son, and Sierra, a daughter, and a 10-month-old son, Ryker. Kile's father, David, died at 44 in 1993, shortly after suffering a stroke.
        Kile was born Dec. 2, 1968, in Garden Grove, Calif., within throwing distance of the California Angels' park. He pitched his last game last Tuesday against the Angels, limiting them to one run and six hits in seven and two-thirds innings, one of his best games of the 14 he pitched this season in compiling a 5-4 record.
      