
        Dr. Frank X. Ogasawara, a poultry expert whose advances in artificial insemination helped keep the fat and happy farm-raised turkey from going the way of the dodo, died on June 8 at a hospital in Davis, Calif. He was 88.
        Dr. Ogasawara, a longtime professor of avian and animal sciences at the University of California at Davis, was considered a pioneer in developing methods to impregnate turkeys artificially.
        Artificial insemination is now used almost exclusively to produce the more than 250 million turkeys raised each year in the United States. But when Dr. Ogasawara began his research in the 1950's, the birds were left largely to their own devices when it came to mating -- and the results were none too good.
        The domesticated turkey had become an ungainly creature, thanks in part to selective breeding by turkey producers. The male's swollen chest and meaty body made him a hit in the kitchen. In the bedroom, it was another story. It was not just the ability to fly that the birds lacked.
        ''The toms were getting heavier and heavier, and so it was very difficult for them to mount a hen and not really squash her,'' said Dr. F. Howard Kratzer, a professor emeritus of animal science at Davis and a friend of Dr. Ogasawara's. ''It just wasn't possible for them to mate naturally.''
        Enter Dr. Ogasawara and his colleagues, who drew on earlier artificial insemination work to help the turkey industry avoid a serious economic blow.
        The researchers figured out how to massage the male turkey's abdomen to coax the release of semen. Then it was simply a matter of getting the semen into the females. (Imagine the turkey-baster method, but with a genuine turkey.)
        Dr. Ogasawara also made an important discovery about why female turkeys remain fertile for weeks after a single mating, finding that they have special ''sperm nests'' for storage in their oviducts.
        In 1972 he established the California Raptor Center at Davis, which cared for birds injured in the wild. He was also an expert in the long-tailed fowl, a Japanese bird whose feathers can reach 30 feet in length.
        But he was best known for his work with breeding turkeys. He taught the technique to poultry experts around the world. In 1966, he received the National Turkey Federation's Outstanding Research Award. In 1982 he was named a Fellow of the Poultry Science Foundation.
        Dr. Ogasawara, who took emeritus status in 1983, was born in San Diego on Nov. 10, 1913, and was raised mostly in Nevada. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and his doctorate from Davis. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Kay Ogasawara of Davis; two daughters, Pam Ogasawara of Urbana, Md., and Patty Sunui of Sacramento; a son, Paul, of Sebastopol, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      