
        Justin W. Dart Jr., a longtime advocate for the rights of disabled people who was a familiar sight around Washington in his cowboy hat, boots and wheelchair, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 71.
        He had been suffering from pneumonia and the aftereffects of the polio that took away the use of his legs when he was 18, said his wife, Yoshiko.
        Mr. Dart was best known as one of the primary forces behind the Americans With Disabilities Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law by President George Bush, with Mr. Dart at his side, in 1990.
        The act was considered by its supporters to be one of the most sweeping pieces of civil rights legislation in decades. It extended throughout private industry a prohibition against discrimination toward the disabled by government agencies and companies that receive government contracts. It also required better access to public buildings, transportation and other services.
        President Bill Clinton awarded Mr. Dart the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 1998. At the ceremony, Mr. Clinton said Mr. Dart had ''literally opened the doors of opportunities to millions of our citizens by securing passage of one of the nation's landmark civil rights laws.''
        Mr. Dart's father, a wealthy business executive who died in 1984, was a close adviser to Ronald Reagan. The junior Mr. Dart's first official appointment in Washington was as commissioner of rehabilitation services in the education department during the Reagan administration. But Mr. Dart was forced to resign from that position in 1987 after he criticized the department's management in testimony to Congress.
        He went on to work in the first Bush administration as chairman of the Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities, and he was close to many other Republicans, including Bob Dole.
        Mr. Dart was a constant presence on Capitol Hill during the debates that led to the Americans with Disabilities Act. In 1991, as he was traveling the country to promote the act's being put into effect, a commuter airline refused to allow Mr. Dart and his assistant to board a plane because they were in wheelchairs, sparking newspaper headlines all over the country and outrage among advocates for the disabled.
        ''What really got me angry or upset -- no, anger is not the right word -- depressed and sobered, was the abrupt and shocking revelation of just how far we have to go,'' Mr. Dart said at the time.
        Mr. Dart, who was a Democrat until 1972, started to break from the Republican party after the 1994 Congressional elections. He ultimately became an outspoken supporter of Mr. Clinton, even paying for a radio commercial backing him in his impeachment trial.
        Mr. Dart's advocacy started not long after he came down with polio in 1948. In 1952, as a student at the University of Houston, he founded an ''integration club'' to promote civil rights on campus. He attended the University of Texas Law School, but left before graduating to open a bowling alley. During the mid-1960's, he ran Japan Tupperware Inc., then a subsidiary of his family's Rexall drugstore chain.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Dart is survived by five daughters from two previous marriages: Idar Dart and Anne Washington of Austin, Tex.; Elizabeth Bender of Georgia; Fusako Jame Dart Krauchi of Switzerland; and Takako Sonia Kane of Connecticut. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      