
        Daniel H. Case III, an investment banker who helped take public many of the highest-flying technology companies in the 1980's and 1990's, died Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 44.
        The cause was brain cancer, said David Golden, head of J. P. Morgan West Coast Investment Banking.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Case was chairman of J. P. Morgan H&Q, formerly Hambrecht & Quist.
        Many investment bankers move from one firm to another, but Mr. Case spent his entire career at Hambrecht & Quist. The firm was taken over by Chase in 1999 and became Chase H&Q. A year later, Chase merged with J. P. Morgan.
        A graduate of Princeton and a Rhodes scholar who studied management at Oxford, Mr. Case came to Hambrecht & Quist as a summer intern in 1979 after William R. Hambrecht, the co-founder of the firm and a Princeton alumnus, asked friends on the faculty about who was the smartest student at the school.
        By the end of the summer, Mr. Hambrecht was convinced that Mr. Case would one day run the firm, and he urged him to return to San Francisco after he graduated.
        ''Bill Hambrecht introduced him around as this wonderful young man he had hired,'' Brook Byers, a partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif., said.
        ''He was not the cigar-chewing, suspenders-wearing investment banker,'' Mr. Byers said. ''He was a smart guy who found a way to get things done and made everybody feel like they got their way. He was loyal and consistent, one of the leaders of a younger generation that said, 'I am staking my career on technology.' ''
        In the 1980's, Mr. Case held several senior roles at Hambrecht & Quist, including co-head of mergers and acquisitions, head of investment banking and executive vice president. He was named a co-chief executive in 1992 and chief executive in 1994. He added the role of chairman in 1998. Mr. Case was also a former vice chairman of the Securities Industry Association, a trade group.
        ''Dan had unlimited passion for entrepreneurs,'' Mr. Golden said in a statement, ''and loved sitting at the nexus of strategy, finance and the risk takers that helped shape the future.''
        The Hambrecht & Quist clients that Mr. Case advised are a veritable who's who of Silicon Valley, including Apple Computer, Genentech, Adobe Software and Netscape.
        One of Mr. Case's brothers is Stephen M. Case, chairman of AOL Time Warner. In a statement, he said: ''Like everything else he did in his life, Dan gave this battle against brain cancer everything he had. He fought with courage and with grace; he fought not only for himself, but for the thousands of people who suffer from this terrible disease.''
        In conjunction with the Case Foundation, Daniel Case was instrumental in starting Accelerate Brain Cancer Cure, a foundation created to advance the development of a cure for brain cancer. Arthur D. Levinson, chief executive of the biotechnology company Genentech, said, ''You learn a lot about people when they go through extremely tough times, and that is where Dan shined.''
        Mr. Levinson, who is involved with the brain cancer foundation, said Mr. Case ''made it clear that the purpose of the foundation was to help patients in the years to come, not Dan -- there was no ambiguity about that.''
        A native of Hawaii, Mr. Case is survived by his wife, Stacey Black Case, and four children, Alexander, Winston, John Daniel and Charlotte. Two sons, Alexander and Winston, are from a previous marriage, to Marion Hudson Case, that ended in divorce. Stacey Black Case and the four children live in San Francisco. Besides his brother Stephen, Mr. Case is also survived by his parents, Daniel and Carol Case; a brother, Jeffrey; and a sister, Carin.
      