
        Erwin Chargaff, whose research into the chemical composition of DNA helped lay the groundwork for James Watson and Francis Crick's discovery of its double-helix structure -- the pivotal finding of 20th-century biology -- died on June 20 in a New York hospital. He was 96.
        As a biochemist at Columbia University in the 1940's, Dr. Chargaff discovered regularities among the four chemical units of DNA known as bases, pointing directly to its role as the hereditary material of living organisms. But he was unable to interpret the meaning of his finding, a failure that allowed Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick to do so when they ascertained the structure of DNA.
        Dr. Chargaff's data helped both in the two young scientists' discovery and even more in its acceptance by other scientists. ''The base composition was an essential clue for finding the structure of DNA, there's no doubt about that,'' Dr. Watson said in an interview. ''We could have come up with the answer, but no one would have believed it.''
        Dr. Chargaff later became a forceful if lonely critic of molecular biology, accusing its practitioners of ''practicing biology without a license'' when they learned to move genes from one organism to another.
        A man of wide culture and learning, he did not fit easily into the sharply focused world of scientific specialists. Ever the European, he found much in American life to criticize, despite his long and productive tenure at Columbia. He cherished the outsider's role, modeling his sardonic view of the world on the writings of Karl Kraus, the Viennese satirist.
        ''I have not fitted well,'' Dr. Chargaff wrote in 1975, ''into the country and the society in which I had to live; into the language in which I had to converse; yes, even into the century in which I was born.''
        Erwin Chargaff was born on Aug. 11, 1905, in Czernowitz, then a provincial capital of the Austrian monarchy. His father, Hermann, was a banker who later lost his business. Of his mother, Rosa Silberstein, he wrote that she died, ''only God knows where and when, having been deported into nothingness from Vienna in 1943.'' He is survived by his only son, Thomas.
        As a young man, Dr. Chargaff studied chemistry at the University of Vienna. He worked at the University of Berlin and then at the Pasteur Institute in Paris before arriving at Columbia University in 1935. After reading the 1944 report by Oswald Avery that identified DNA as the hereditary material, Dr. Chargaff switched his laboratory to the study of DNA and the four bases, or chemical groups, of which it is composed -- adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine.
        He soon noticed a striking regularity about the base composition of DNA: from whatever plant or animal he derived DNA, the amounts of adenine and thymine were almost the same, and so were the amounts of cytosine and guanine.
        Dr. Chargaff published the result but made little progress in understanding the reason for the regularity, which is that adenine on one of the DNA molecule's two strands is always paired with thymine on the other, as is cytosine with guanine. But in a fateful and testy lunch in May 1952, he discussed his results with Dr. Watson and Mr. Crick (who did not yet have his doctorate).
        ''They impressed me by their extreme ignorance,'' he later told Horace Judson, the historian of the discovery of DNA. ''They told me they wanted to construct a helix, a polynucleotide to rival Pauling's alpha helix. They talked so much about 'pitch' that I remember I wrote down afterwards, 'Two pitchmen in search of a helix.' ''
        He later wrote that ''I believe that the double-stranded model of DNA came about as a consequence of our conversation.'' Mr. Judson, however, in an appendix to a new edition of his book ''The Eighth Day of Creation'' (Cold Spring Harbor Press, 1996), concluded that Dr. Chargaff's claim was something of a stretch, since Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick had not at that time hit on the concept of base pairing, nor had Dr. Chargaff alluded to it in his publications.
        Though Dr. Chargaff tended toward the sardonic, it was hard for observers to understand the depth of his bitterness in his attitude to his fellow scientists. The reason, besides his disappointment at having missed discovering the structure of DNA, was that he was pushed to the sidelines by Dr. Crick in the worldwide effort to interpret the structure.
        ''By 1958,'' Mr. Judson writes, ''Dr. Chargaff was denouncing molecular biology and its practitioners for arrogance, ignorance, reductionism and self-serving sensationalism.''
        A skeptic and outsider to the end, he doubtless knew that Chargaff's rules -- the name given in every biology textbook to the DNA base ratios he discovered -- were memorial enough.
      