
        Anthony B. Gliedman, who as commissioner of New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development emphasized efforts to build housing for the homeless, died on Friday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 59 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Virginia. He had suffered a disabling stroke in 1995.
        While Mr. Gliedman was commissioner, from 1979 to 1986, New York was moving away from building large developments in deteriorating sections, instead striving to stop deterioration in neighborhoods that remained livable and to put up small-scale residential housing.
        Under his leadership, rehabilitation efforts and new construction were extended beyond Manhattan to the other boroughs.
        He also pursued programs aimed at selling abandoned buildings to tenants and supervised the management of thousands of buildings abandoned by their landlords for the benefit of the remaining tenants.
        He was proud of increasing the supply of heat and hot water in city-owned buildings. By the time he resigned, the proportion of city-owned buildings that lacked heat on any given day had dwindled to 0.5 percent.
        He also oversaw hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of construction in a city with a chronic shortage of adequate housing, though even his more modest goals were impeded by sharp reductions in federal assistance.
        ''We've realized we're not going to be a city of 12 million,'' he said in 1986, ''so we don't have to build high-rises everywhere.''
        He resigned in 1986 to work for Donald J. Trump.
        Assessments of his time as commissioner varied. Several community-development groups and tenant organizations said he had been persistent and efficient. But others contended that he had been insensitive to tenants' problems and had failed to have enough housing built for the needy.
        Mr. Gliedman held New York City government posts under Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch. The posts included assistant corporation counsel; counsel to the Department of Rent and Housing Maintenance; aide to Deputy Mayor Basil Patterson; and, in 1978 and 1979, commissioner of ports and terminals.
        Mayor Koch named Mr. Gliedman to the housing post.
        Anthony Bruce Gliedman, whose last name was pronounced GLIDE-man, was born in Brooklyn and grew up there. He graduated from Amherst College and the Columbia University School of Law, and was a law clerk for John R. Bartels, a federal judge of the Eastern District of New York.
        Mr. Gliedman is survived by his wife, the former Virginia A. Penney, whom he married in 1969; two sons, Christopher, of St. Paul, and Gregory, of Brooklyn; his mother, Rae Gliedman of Manhattan; and a brother, Kenneth, of Manhattan.
      