
        A. A. Sommer Jr., an influential corporate and securities lawyer and former commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Bethesda.
        The cause was a complication of a neurological ailment, his wife said.
        Mr. Sommer, a Democrat whose full name was Alphonse Adam Sommer Jr., was a commissioner of the S.E.C. from 1973 to 1976.
        He was still chairman of the agency's blue-ribbon Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure in 1977, when he said in an interview that after a 17-month investigation, the panel had concluded that the system of disclosure worked well and should not be radically altered.
        The panel's final report was a ''tour de force and the best advisory report in the history of the commission,'' Joel Seligman, the dean of the Washington University School of Law in St. Louis, recalled.
        The report proposed several important changes in the S.E.C.'s mandatory system concerning corporate disclosure of all kinds of data. Among other things, the report encouraged the publication of forward-looking or predictive information.
        As a commissioner, Mr. Sommer is said to have been one of the people  who persuaded the S.E.C. chairman, Ray Garrett Jr., to take the ultimate leadership role in the agency's decision to do away with fixed brokerage commission rates. That action has been called one of the most important market-structural decisions the commission has ever made.
        Mr. Sommer was talked of as a prime candidate to become the S.E.C. chairman. But on his last day in office, he addressed a seminar on securities law in Columbus, Ohio, and voiced criticism of the commission that has been widely quoted.
        He contended that the agency had exceeded its authority in handling the question of dubious corporate payments and that it had ''failed terribly'' by not establishing norms of conduct. The result, he contended, was a compromise of its credibility and professional standing.
        As an S.E.C. commissioner, Mr. Sommer was a frequent, though friendly, critic of the accounting profession. But in 1977, preparing itself for hostile Congressional hearings, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants retained him as special counsel and strategist.
        He was a partner in the Washington office of the law firm of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius from 1979 to 1994.
        Born in Portsmouth, Ohio, Mr. Sommer served in the Army during World War II and received a law degree from Harvard. Before being named an S.E.C. commissioner by President Richard M. Nixon, he was a partner in the Cleveland law firm of Calfee, Halter, Calfee, Griswold & Sommer.
        Surviving are his wife of 40 years, the former Storrow Cassin; two daughters, Susan Sommer Futter of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., and Nancy Sommer Gariepy of Vienna, Va.; a son, Edward, of Wilmette, Ill.; a sister, Marianne Schulz of Whitefish Bay, Wis.; and seven grandchildren.
      