
        Ted Williams, the tempestuous slugger of the Boston Red Sox who was the last man to bat .400 and was perhaps the greatest hitter in baseball history, died yesterday in Inverness, Fla. He was 83.
        Williams was in cardiac arrest when he was brought to Citrus County Memorial Hospital from his home in Crystal River. After several strokes in the 1990's, he had a pacemaker implanted in November 2000 and underwent open-heart surgery two months later.
        Williams's death comes close to concluding an era of larger-than-life baseball stars who began their careers in the days when the likes of Honus Wagner and John McGraw were still household names.
        He belonged in a circle of but a few figures who were on a trajectory toward the Hall of Fame from their earliest playing days. He was the ultimate perfectionist at the plate and was gifted with extraordinary eyesight and possessed of supreme devotion to his craft. He was ranked with Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth and Joe DiMaggio as pre-eminent figures in the history of the game.
        Yesterday, his fellow Hall of Famers remembered Williams as a marquee figure.
        ''Knowing Ted, everyone was hanging on to yesteryear through him,'' Willie Mays said.
        Joe Morgan said, ''As a Hall of Famer, every time you went to the Hall of Fame you wanted Ted to be there, as it put the stamp of approval on your being there.''
        In 1941, his third season in the major leagues, Williams batted .406, a baseball milestone in an extraordinary year that also brought DiMaggio's streak of hitting in 56 consecutive games. Williams won the American League batting championship six times during his 19 seasons with the Red Sox and he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1966. He spent four years as manager of the Washington Senators and Texas Rangers and was also an accomplished fisherman.
        From the moment the 20-year-old rookie they never stopped calling the Kid got his first look at Fenway Park on April 22, 1939, to the overcast day he bid his Fenway fans farewell with his 521st home run in his last at-bat on Sept. 28, 1960, Williams made an argument for recognition as baseball's most accomplished hitter.
        Despite missing three full seasons while serving as a Navy pilot in World War II and losing most of two seasons while a Marine pilot in the Korean War, he had the American League's highest slugging average eight times, led the league in runs scored six times, led in runs batted in and in home runs four times and captured the triple crown twice, a feat equaled only by Rogers Hornsby. He won two Most Valuable Player awards.
        He had 2,654 hits, and in perhaps the greatest tribute to his batting prowess, he led the league in walks eight times, finishing with a total of 2,019, second only to Ruth at the time.
        While Williams could not bring himself to say he was a greater hitter than Ruth, he did manage a not necessarily less modest claim. As he put it in his 1969 autobiography, ''My Turn at Bat,'' written with John Underwood and published by Simon & Schuster, ''I kind of enjoy thinking I might have become in those last years the greatest old hitter who ever lived.''
        In 1957, at the age of 39 and while playing for a lackluster team, Williams became the oldest man to win a batting title, with a spectacular .388 average. He won the title again the next year (.328).
        Then, after a preseason neck injury in 1959 led to his most dismal season and his only sub-.300 average (.254), Williams, angered that the Red Sox were urging him to retire, came back for a defiant final season in 1960. He underlined the magnificence of his career by turning in his second-lowest average -- a not-so-low .316.
        That brought his career average to .344, sixth-highest since 1900, and, like his .406 in 1941, unsurpassed since.
        Williams turned in memorable performances in two All-Star Games. In the 1941 game, at Briggs Stadium in Detroit, he hit a two-out, three-run homer in the ninth inning off the Chicago Cubs' Claude Passeau to give the American League a 7-5 victory. In the 1946 game, at Fenway Park, Williams hit two home runs, one a drive into the center-field bleachers and the other the first home run ever hit off the looping eephus pitch of the Pittsburgh Pirates' Rip Sewell. Williams drove in five runs and scored four times, both All-Star Game records, in the American League's 12-0 rout.
        Nobody had brought such a studied intensity to hitting, a craft Williams once called an art but one he clearly saw as a science. And few have created as much excitement simply by stepping into the batter's box in the late innings of a tight game and taking a few practice cuts with baseball's closest approximation of the perfect swing.
        As unyielding elsewhere as he was at the plate, Williams also created excitement when he wasn't batting. By his own account he played much of his career in a rage, sometimes at his own mistakes in the field and at the predictable boos that followed, sometimes at a pitcher's effrontery in striking him out, often over what he inevitably saw as a vicious, unfair or downright fabricated blast from the Boston press.
        He was an admittedly thin-skinned man who read his critics religiously and could pick out a single boo from a torrent of cheers. Williams, who early on tagged Boston fans as fickle front-runners and never failed to answer their taunts, became almost as famous for his refusal to tip his cap to their cheers as he was for the very home runs that regularly brought them to their feet.
        But Williams and the fans mellowed considerably toward each other over the years.
        The very combativeness that stirred their disdain was a reflection of the intensity that made him the most dangerous hitter of his time. As Williams himself pointed out, he never hit better than when he was mad.
        A Boyhood Spent With Bat and Glove
        Teddy Samuel Williams, as the birth certificate recorded it, or Theodore, as he preferred, was born in San Diego on Aug. 30, 1918.
        His house was a modest bungalow on Utah Street but his home was the North Park playground a block and a half away.
        Williams spent summer days and school-year afternoons in the park, sometimes in pickup games, more often with a single playmate, taking turns pitching to each other. When a pal wasn't available, Williams could spend hours practicing his swing and hitting imaginary home runs.
        At Hoover High School, Williams, who wore his glove on his belt and even carried his bat to class, averaged .430 in his three years as a pitcher-outfielder, hitting a stunning .583 as a junior but slumping to a prophetic .406 as a senior.
        After completing high school in June 1936, he began his professional career in the Pacific Coast League, accepting $150 a month to play for the new San Diego Padres franchise. The Red Sox exercised an option on Williams in December 1937, paying the Padres $35,000 and sending them two players.
        Reporting two weeks late for his first spring training (floods in California delayed his arrival), he was soon a celebrity, more for his mouth than his bat.
        The 18-year-old Williams took no guff from the veterans, and if one happened to take too long in the batting cage while Williams was waiting, he would call him on it, likely as not telling him, ''Now watch some real hitting.''
        When Williams ran into Bobby Doerr, a former Padres teammate, who had become impressed with the great slugger Jimmie Foxx, the following conversation took place:
        Doerr: ''Wait until you see this guy Foxx hit.''
        Williams: ''Wait until Foxx sees me hit.''
        Facing major league pitching for the first time during spring training, Williams was not an overpowering success. Even so, when the Red Sox, who had three .300 outfielders and had never intended to put him in the 1938 lineup, assigned him to their Minneapolis farm club, Williams was furious.
        Furious enough that he led the American Association in batting (.366), home runs (43), R.B.I. (142), runs scored (130) and zaniness. (After hitting home runs, he would slap himself on the rump and yell ''Hi Ho Silver'' while galloping around the bases.)
        He also received the advice that was to make him famous. Hornsby, during a tour as a minor league batting instructor, told Williams his secret: wait to get a good pitch to hit.
        It became his credo. Williams, who never claimed he could see the individual stitches on a pitch but figured he could detect a ball's position within half an inch, was noted for never going after anything less than a perfect pitch with less than two strikes and never ever for one outside the strike zone.
        Start swinging at bad balls, he figured, and you would be sure to see more of them, and Williams saw quite enough bad balls as it was.
        Although he was invariably described as a natural hitter, there was very little that was natural about his vaunted swing. As Williams made clear in his 1970 book, ''The Science of Hitting,'' written with John Underwood and published by Simon & Schuster, his swing and every other facet of his batting had been honed during thousands of hours of practice, including one famous incident when a mighty midnight practice swing smashed a hotel bedpost, sending a terrified Boston teammate tumbling to the floor.
        Much has been made of Williams's superior eyesight, especially after Navy doctors measured it at 20-10 in 1942, and even more after Williams, completing his first batting practice at Fenway on his return from Korea in 1953, observed that home plate was a hair off line, as a surveyor's transit confirmed.
        What mattered, Williams said, was not how good his vision was but how well he used it. ''The reason I saw things was that I was so intense,'' he said.
        A natural right-hander who happened to bat left-handed out of his 6-foot-3-inch frame because that was the way he started swinging when he first picked up a bat, Williams threw and did everything else right-handed. He said batting wrong-handed cost him power because it was the top hand on the bat, the one nearest the impact with the ball (in his case, his weaker left hand), that provided a swing its power.
        Williams regarded hitting as the most difficult task in all of sports. He was notoriously finicky about his bats, boning them after every game to compress the fibers.
        He made the Red Sox in 1939, and when the season opened against the Yankees in New York on April 20, he struck out his first time up (he later tripled). He managed a single in four times up in the home opener on April 22, but the next day, in five at-bats against the A's, he had two singles, a double and his first home run. The homer was a 400-foot shot into a section of the right-field bleachers where only five other men, including Ruth, had ever hit home runs.
        By the All-Star Game break, Williams had hit six more homers to the same spot, an area shortened by 20 feet after the season.
        It was an exuberant season. Williams, the darling of the Boston fans, led major league rookies with a .327 average and 31 home runs, and led the league with 145 R.B.I. There was no official designation then, but Ruth proclaimed Williams the rookie of the year. There was no argument.
        Although it has frequently been written that Williams never tipped his cap to the fans after his first season, he didn't tip it that year either. He would pull it straight off by the button and twirl it as he made his way around the bases.
        Even before the start of the next season, his honeymoon with Boston came to an end when a newspaper columnist, noting that Williams had spent the winter in Minnesota, chided him for not visiting his mother.
        Williams, who had been shifted from right field to left, where he had less ground to cover and didn't have the sun in his eyes, began to hear boos for the first time, and he didn't like it. He liked it even less when the boos from ''front-runners'' turned to cheers after a home run.
        At one point he became so upset he said he might quit baseball to become a fireman. The next time the team visited Chicago, the White Sox appeared in fire helmets. Other teams greeted him with clanging fire bells.
        DiMaggio and Williams Rewrite History in 1941
        Despite a season-long struggle with pitchers who had learned to pitch around him, he improved his batting average to .344, but few were prepared for what happened next.
        Many regard the 1941 season as the greatest ever, and Williams wouldn't argue.
        Although Joe DiMaggio got most of the headlines during his game-by-game pursuit of what would become a 56-game hitting streak, Williams, whose average fluctuated over the months, had the nation's full attention when he entered the last doubleheader of the season, in Philadelphia, with his average at .39955, .400 by the usual rounding.
        Manager Joe Cronin would have allowed him to sit out the games to protect his technical .400, but Williams, who felt he had been credited with a couple of hits that were really errors, never seriously considered it. He went 6 for 8 in the doubleheader, ending up at .405702 (185 for 456).
        It was an important enough achievement at the time, but it would loom even larger with each passing decade.
        The last batter to hit .400 before Williams was the New York Giants' Bill Terry, who batted .401 in 1930. There was not much mystery about who was likely to do it after 1941: the very man they called variously the Kid, the Splendid Splinter (he was thin for a power hitter), the Thumper, the Big One, or, as initially articulated by a toddler asked after his first Red Sox game to name his favorite player, Teddy Ballgame.
        And he may have, too, if the Japanese had not bombed Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941.
        Defying critics who felt he should have enlisted in the armed forces immediately, Williams played through the 1942 season, obtaining a deferment on the grounds he was the sole means of support for his mother, a Salvation Army worker who was separated from Williams's father. He missed .400, but won the triple crown, leading the league in batting with a .356 average, in R.B.I. with 137 and in home runs with 36. Then, as the season drew to a close, he did enlist, on his terms and on his schedule, as a Naval aviator. He became an officer, gained his wings and served as a stateside flight instructor. Before he could see action in the Pacific, Japan surrendered.
        Returning to the lineup in 1946, he showed that he had lost none of his form. He hit .342 with 38 home runs and led the league in runs scored (142) and slugging average (.667) as the Red Sox ran away with the American League race.
        The year also saw the dawn of the Williams Shift. Designed by Lou Boudreau, the Cleveland Indians' shortstop and manager, and copied by other teams, it was designed to thwart Williams's pull-hitting. Since he almost always hit to the right, the shift moved the entire infield and two-thirds of the outfield to the right side, with the left fielder playing shallow as a deep shortstop of sorts.
        In time Williams was able to adjust to the shift, taking a stance a few inches farther back and pushing at the ball slightly, but he later figured it had cost him several hits a season.
        Playing with a swollen elbow after being hit with a pitch in an exhibition-game tuneup for the 1946 World Series, Williams had a miserable Series against the St. Louis Cardinals, hitting .200 (5 for 25) as Boston lost, 4 games to 3.
        But he won the triple crown again in 1947, batting .343 with 114 R.B.I. and 32 home runs.
        Aside from photo finishes in 1948 and 1949, the Williams Red Sox were never again in serious contention, and Williams was plagued by periodic injuries, most seriously when he shattered an elbow crashing into an outfield wall in the 1950 All-Star Game.
        Duty Calls Again And a Memorable Return
        He also missed most of two seasons while flying 39 missions in Korea as a Marine fighter pilot. His plane was hit on one early mission and he barely escaped a fiery crash-landing.
        On several missions, Williams flew alongside a Marine pilot named John Glenn. Few people knew about the association between the last man to hit .400 and the first American to go into orbit in space until Glenn appeared at a 1998 dinner in Boston for the Jimmy Fund, a charity for children with cancer to which Williams had long been devoted.
        Williams returned from Korea in time to finish the 1953 season, leaving two tantalizing Korean War-era lines in the record book: a .400 batting average in 1952 (in 6 games) and a .407 average in 1953 (in 37 games).
        Increasingly plagued by aches and pains, he continued to pile up hits and controversy, most notoriously in 1956 when he celebrated his 400th home run by spitting in the direction of the press box as he crossed home plate, a gesture he repeated a couple of days later. The ''great expectorations'' led to a $5,000 fine, which, Williams later noted, would have been a major league record if the club had ever collected it.
        His celebrated departure came on a gray day at Fenway Park on Sept. 28, 1960, his last at-bat in the eighth inning against Jack Fisher of the Baltimore Orioles. With the count one ball and one strike, Williams drove the ball to center field. It landed where the bullpen met the wall and disappeared.
        John Updike, writing in The New Yorker, captured the moment in his article ''Hub Fans Bid Kid Adieu.''
        ''Like a feather caught in a vortex, Williams ran around the square of bases at the center of our beseeching screaming. He ran as he always ran out home runs -- hurriedly, unsmiling, head down, as if our praise were a storm of rain to get out of. He didn't tip his cap. Though we thumped, wept, and chanted 'We want Ted' for minutes after he hid in the dugout, he did not come back. Our noise for some seconds passed beyond excitement into a kind of immense open anguish, a wailing, a cry to be saved. But immortality is nontransferable. The papers said that the other players and even the umpires on the field begged him to come out and acknowledge us in some way, but he never had and did not now. Gods do not answer letters.''
        After Williams left baseball, he devoted himself to his second love, fishing, which he mastered with the same obsession he had brought to his hitting.
        In 1969, three years after his induction into the Hall of Fame, Williams, who had long before proclaimed managing ''the worst job in the world,'' was persuaded by the lure of a five-year, $1.25 million contract to take over the Washington Senators, the hapless successors to the original Senators, who had become the Minnesota Twins.
        Williams took over a team that had finished in last place (65-96) in the 10-team league in 1968 and managed it to fourth (86-76) in the new six-team East Division, bringing him acclaim as the American League's manager of the year.
        Williams, who as a player had complained that managers paid far too little attention to hitting and hitters, was especially proud that, pitchers aside, every one of the returning regulars improved their batting averages, with the team as a whole going from .224 to .251.
        But the Senators couldn't hold their gains. Williams followed the team to Texas when it became the Rangers in 1972, then left after a last-place finish that season. He was around the .400 mark as a manager, too, with a career record of 273-364 (.429).
        After that, he stuck to his fishing. With Underwood, he wrote ''Fishing the Big Three,'' (tarpon, bonefish and Atlantic Salmon), published by Simon & Schuster in 1982.
        Williams, who was married and divorced three times, is survived by a daughter, Bobbie Jo, by his first wife, Doris Soule; and a son and a daughter, John Henry and Claudia, by his third wife, Dolores Wettach.
        In his later years, Williams lived in a spacious dusty-pink stucco home, the house standing beyond the wrought-iron No. 9 on the driveway gate. Almost all his baseball trophies were in his den. On the walls of the living room were dozens of framed photos and paintings and prints, almost all of salmon, marlin and tarpon.
        He was honored repeatedly in Boston and regarded with reverence by modern-day stars.
        On May 11, 1991, Williams and DiMaggio were brought together at Fenway Park at a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of the season that spawned their greatest feats.
        They embraced at home plate after they were driven separately in golf carts from the outfield. DiMaggio was reclusive, spending little time with old teammates who had also been brought back. But Williams burst into the Red Sox clubhouse about two hours before the start of an old-timers' game to exchange warm greetings with his former teammates, including Doerr, Johnny Pesky, Dom DiMaggio and Jimmy Piersall. He swung an imaginary bat, talking hitting and pitching with Wade Boggs, a batting champ of the 1980's and 1990's. On the next day, he had the stage to himself for Ted Williams Day.
        The following December, Williams had a stroke that affected his right side and his right visual field. A few months after that, he had a smaller stroke. In February 1994, 10 days after the Ted Williams Museum and Hitters Hall of Fame opened in Hernando, Fla., he had his third stroke. This time his left side and his left visual field were impaired, and the effects were more severe than the damage incurred in his first stroke; he required a wheelchair.
        But in December 1995, he came back to Boston for the dedication of the Ted Williams Tunnel under Boston Harbor, and he seemed amused by the accolades. ''Every place I go, they're waving at me, sending out a cheer, sending letters and notes,'' he said at the ceremony. ''And I thought: I've only seen it happen to somebody who looks like they're going to die. And I'd like to say this one thing today: I'm a long ways from that.''
        But Williams did not make an appearance at a ballgame until March 1998, when he attended a Red Sox-Phillies spring training game in Clearwater, Fla. Though his eyesight was failing, when a hitter swung at a pitch and missed, he proclaimed it a slider. ''I didn't see the pitch,'' he told The Associated Press, ''just the way the hitter swung.''
        Reconciling With Fans As All-Stars Pay Tribute
        Williams was at center stage for the 1999 All-Star Game at Fenway Park. As soon as he emerged along the center-field warning track as a passenger in a green golf cart, the fans rose to salute him, and he raised his white cap.
        After Williams was brought to the mound to toss out the ceremonial first pitch, the All-Stars and the players who were assembled on the field as part of the All-Century Team edged toward him.
        Mark McGwire, Ken Griffey Jr. and Cal Ripken Jr. surrounded Williams, and then Tony Gwynn, like Williams the best hitter of his era, leaned in to shake Williams's hand. Williams wiped away tears. The public-address announcer asked the players to return to their dugouts so the game could begin on time, but they wouldn't budge.
        Using Gwynn to support his left side, Williams tossed the pitch 40 feet to Carlton Fisk, the former Red Sox catcher who would be inducted into the Hall of Fame the following summer. The crowd roared again.
        It seemed as if the Boston fans' reverence had never been intertwined with rancor.
        The novelist George V. Higgins, a Red Sox devotee, once reflected on how there was a problem in accounting for the casual manner of New Englanders in accepting the gift of Williams's greatness. Why had they not packed Fenway Park day after day to revel in his deeds?
        ''Supposing that some several thousand Austrians between 1756 and 1791 for some reasons of their own that seemed sufficient at the time must have omitted to attend even one public concert by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, or that a hundred fifty years before Englishmen in like numbers never bothered to enjoy what William Shakespeare wrote, somehow does not explain fully how we could have been so dense,'' Higgins wrote in ''Ted Williams: A Portrait in Words and Pictures'' (Walker, 1991) by Dick Johnson and Glenn Stout.
        ''Time in its habitual cruelty occasionally lets up a bit and forgives us all our lapses, and as Ted Williams and the rest of us have become three decades older, it's rewarding to us spectators to see the now-elder statesman of the batted ball savoring at least somewhat the approbation and gratitude he neither got nor enjoyed fully while he was engaged in doing what he did so well.
        ''I realize many baseball fathers have nudged their kids and pointed when some hero of other days, from another team, appeared in public view, and assured those children, unimpressed, that Mantle, Joe D., Sandy Koufax, Stan Musial, or Hank Aaron was the greatest ballplayer who ever took the field.
        ''Well, we older parties in New England have done that in our turn, but we have an advantage over all who have made competing claims: when we say that of Number 9, we are speaking God's own truth.''
      