
        John Frankenheimer, one of the foremost directors of the 1960's with classic films like ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''Seven Days in May,'' ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' and ''The Train,'' died of a massive stroke today from complications after spinal surgery. He was 72.
        Mr. Frankenheimer, whose career stumbled badly in the late 1970's and 1980's because of personal problems and alcoholism, came back in the 1990's with significant television work that was flourishing at the time of his death. ''It's a town with a short memory: it grinds people up and throws them away,'' Mr. Frankenheimer told a reporter in 1998, shortly before the release of an action film, ''Ronin,'' with Robert De Niro.
        More recently, Mr. Frankenheimer won four consecutive Emmys for best director for the television movies ''Against the Wall,'' ''The Burning Season,'' ''Andersonville,'' and ''George Wallace.'' His last film, ''Path to War,'' an ambitious HBO drama about the Johnson administration's decisions to escalate the war in Vietnam, was shown in May to strong reviews.
        On the set of the film, veteran actors like Donald Sutherland, who played Clark Clifford, and Michael Gambon, who played President Lyndon B. Johnson, said that Mr. Frankenheimer's enthusiasm and energy amazed them. ''He has more energy than someone half his age,'' Mr. Gambon remarked.
        The director Frank Pierson, president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and a longtime friend of Mr. Frankenheimer, said: ''John revolutionized everybody's way of looking at films. He had such a highly charged visual style, so full of energy; he brought us close up to things. Movies began to look different after John came along.''
        The actor Gary Sinise, who played the title role in ''George Wallace'' and worked with Mr. Frankenheimer on two other films, called him ''a giant.''
        ''He had directing in his blood,'' Mr. Sinise said. ''He loved filmmaking. It gave him a great source of energy and passion. I met him later in his career, but never did I feel that I was working with someone whose best years were over. He just had this great passion and great vision and great love for making movies.''
        A tall, rangy figure with a craggy face and a surprisingly open and blunt style, Mr. Frankenheimer sometimes looked back on his career without bitterness or rancor.
        He attributed his bleak years in part to a drinking problem that sometimes led to disastrous decisions in the 1970's. He said he stopped drinking in 1980.
        ''I had a drinking problem -- it took a toll on me,'' he told The New York Times in 1998. ''And the state of mind you're in when you have a problem like that, even when you're not drunk, is the most dangerous time. Because you make decisions that are not totally in your best interest -- about your life, about your career choices and everything.''
        Of his decision to stop drinking, he recalled, ''I said, 'I can't go on like this -- I figured I'd better do something about it, because otherwise I was going to die.' ''
        Compounding his personal difficulties was the assassination in 1968 of Robert F. Kennedy. Mr. Frankenheimer and Senator Kennedy had developed a close friendship, and the filmmaker spent that year traveling with him during his presidential campaign. In fact, on the last day of his life, Senator Kennedy was staying at Mr. Frankenheimer's home in Malibu. Mr. Frankenheimer drove him to the Ambassador Hotel in downtown Los Angeles to celebrate his triumph in the California primary. It was there that Senator Kennedy was killed.
        Decades after the assassination, Mr. Frankenheimer spoke of it in halting terms. ''If you want to date a moment when things started to turn, it was after that night,'' Mr. Frankenheimer said. ''I went through sheer hell. I went to Europe, and I just lost interest. I got burned out. I was really left very disillusioned and went through a period of deep depression. It took a long time to get it back.'' Mr. Frankenheimer spent five years in France, taking cooking classes and directing sporadically.
        Movie offers dwindled in the 1980's after several failures and a decline in his work. But his career revived in 1994, when he won an Emmy for HBO's searing prison drama ''Against the Wall,'' about the bloody 1971 riot at the Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York.
        Mr. Frankenheimer was born in New York City on Feb. 19, 1930, the son of a stockbroker. ''I came from a half-Irish, half-German-Jewish background, a very volatile mix,'' he once said with a laugh. He was active in theater at Williams College. During the Korean War, while he was in the Air Force making training films, he decided he wanted to direct movies. Soon afterward he was hired as an assistant director at CBS in New York, where he worked on weather and news broadcasts as well as shows like ''Person to Person'' and ''You Are There.''
        This led to assignments directing an extraordinary 152 live television dramas between 1954 and 1960 -- an average of one every two weeks -- for ''Playhouse 90'' and other anthology series. Among the shows he directed for ''Playhouse 90'' were ''The Days of Wine and Roses'' with Cliff Robertson and Piper Laurie, ''For Whom the Bell Tolls'' with Jason Robards, and ''The Turn of the Screw,'' with Ingrid Bergman. Over the course of his television career, Mr. Frankenheimer was nominated for 14 Emmys.
        He made his feature film debut in 1957 with ''The Young Stranger,'' an acclaimed film starring James MacArthur, James Daly and Kim Hunter, about a teenage boy's troubled relationship with his distant father. What followed was an array of stylish dramas including ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' ''The Train'' and ''Grand Prix.''
        ''I've always seemed attracted to material that deals with characters who aren't what they seem to be -- whether it's 'The Manchurian Candidate,' or some of the work I've done on television or the novels of John Le Carré or Len Deighton or Richard Condon,'' Mr. Frankenheimer once said. He added: ''I've had a good career. One film works and another film doesn't. And then you go through a period where a bunch of films don't work. So what you have to do is put that behind you and suck in your gut and say, 'O.K., now what can I do?' ''
        In recent years, setbacks did not seem to shake Mr. Frankenheimer's confidence. In 1996, Mr. Frankenheimer was brought in to replace a director who had been fired from a remake of ''The Island of Dr. Moreau,'' a bizarre film that included a weird performance by Marlon Brando. Mr. Frankenheimer shrugged it off as one of the most dreadful experiences of his career.
        Mr. Frankenheimer is survived by his wife of 41 years, Evans Frankenheimer, an actress; as well as two daughters, Elise Riggs of Lafayette, Calif., and Kristi Frankenheimer of Los Angeles; a grandson, Dylan Frankenheimer; his sister, Jean Hieber, and his brother, Richard Frankenheimer, both of New York City.
        A Career in Film  Some of the film and television projects directed by John Frankenheimer:
        The Young Stranger, 1957.  The Young Savages, 1961.  Birdman of Alcatraz, 1962.  All Fall Down, 1962.  The Manchurian Candidate, 1962.  Seven Days in May, 1964.  The Train, 1964.  Seconds, 1966.  Grand Prix, 1966.  The Fixer, 1968.  The Extraordinary Seaman, 1969.  The Gypsy Moths, 1969.  I Walk the Line, 1970.  The Horsemen, 1971.  The Impossible Object, 1973.  French Connection II, 1975.  Black Sunday, 1977.  The Holcroft Covenant, 1985.  52 Pick-Up, 1986.  Dead Bang, 1989.  The Fourth War, 1990.  Year of the Gun, 1991.  Against The Wall (HBO), 1994.  The Burning Season (HBO), 1994.  Andersonville (TNT), 1996.  The Island of Dr. Moreau, 1996.  George Wallace (TNT), 1997.  Ronin, 1998.  Reindeer Games, 2000.  Path to War (HBO), 2002.
      