
        Lore Noto, the theatrical producer who nurtured a little show called ''The Fantasticks'' and turned it into the world's longest-running musical, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        He died after a long battle with cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Noto brought the ''The Fantasticks,'' a simple tale of first love, to the Sullivan Street Playhouse in Greenwich Village on May 3, 1960. Although it opened to mixed reviews, he kept the show running through good times and bad, even stepping into a major acting role for one 16-year period. When the final curtain was brought down on Jan. 13, 2002, the show had played 17,162 performances over 42 years, earning it the title of the world's longest-running musical. The show won numerous other honors, including an off-Broadway Obie Award and a special Tony in 1992.
        Lore Noto was born in Brooklyn on June 9, 1923. He lost his mother at a young age and was raised at the Brooklyn Home for Children, then in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. During his teens, he helped his father operate a billiard parlor in Ridgewood. He trained to be a commercial artist but also had a love for the theater, performing in plays by Chekhov and Ibsen with a small company at churches and libraries.
        When World War II began, Mr. Noto joined the merchant marine. While ashore in Antwerp during the Battle of the Bulge, he was gravely wounded by a German rocket. He was later among a group of merchant seamen to be awarded the Purple Heart.
        He later served in New York as an artist with a naval publication and ended his career in the Maritime Service in 1946 as a Chief Petty Officer.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Mary; three sons, Thad, of Gary, Tenn., Anthony, of Manhattan, Jody, of Vancouver, Wash.; a daughter, Janice, of Ossining, N.Y.; and seven grandchildren
        It was 1959 when Mr. Noto saw the original ''Fantasticks'' as a small one-act show at Barnard College. Mr. Noto said that he became hooked when he heard people humming its signature song, ''Try to Remember,'' after the show in the men's room. He commissioned the creators, Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt, to expand the book lyrics into an evening of musical theater. Mr. Noto cast the actors, paid the bills and even took several turns onstage. In 1971, he stepped into the role of Hucklebee, the father of the love-struck boy, and went on to perform it until 1986.
        In 1986, illness forced Mr. Noto to retire from the stage and he announced he was closing the show. The announcement caused such a storm of protest that Mr. Noto relented and brought in a co-producer, Donald V. Thompson, to help with the daily operations.
        When the show finally ended its run earlier this year, it was Mr. Noto who brought down the final curtain.
      