
        Rod Steiger, whose taut and intensely personal approach to a wide variety of roles placed him among the finest character actors of the last 50 years and brought him an Academy Award in 1967 for his depiction of the bigoted Southern sheriff in the film ''In the Heat of the Night,'' died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 77.
        His publicity agent, Lori DeWaal, told The Associated Press that Mr. Steiger had been hospitalized with pneumonia and kidney failure.
        ''My generation of actors was taught to be able to create different people,'' he once said. ''That's what an actor is supposed to do.''
        For Mr. Steiger, those people arched across a spectrum from the lonely butcher in the original television production of ''Marty'' in 1953 and Charley Malloy, the corrupt older brother of the boxer played by Marlon Brando in the Academy Award-wining film version of ''On the Waterfront'' (1954), to the title role in ''Al Capone'' (1959), the menacing Jud in ''Oklahoma!'' (1955), in which he sang and learned to dance, and a haunted Jewish survivor of Hitler's concentration camps in ''The Pawnbroker'' (1965).
        Mr. Steiger was W. C. Fields in ''W. C. Fields and Me'' in 1976, Mussolini in ''Lion of the Desert'' in 1981, and Napoleon in ''Waterloo'' in 1970. Among other historical figures in various films, he portrayed Rudolf Hess, Ulysses S. Grant, Rasputin and Pontius Pilate.
        He worked with writers and directors like Norman Jewison, John Frankenheimer, Arthur Miller, Elia Kazan and Sidney Lumet, and his co-stars included a roster of names like Sidney Poitier, Humphrey Bogart, Edward G. Robinson, Sylvester Stallone and Jack Nicholson.
        Some film critics characterized Mr. Steiger as one of the 20th century's great character actors, more specifically as a method actor. Mr. Steiger thought of himself as an actor, period. ''There's no such thing as a straight part,'' he said. ''Every part you play is a character.'' He took issue with the way the term ''method acting'' was used.
        ''Method,'' he said, ''is anything that gets you involved personally in the part, so that you can communicate in human terms with an audience. The essence of any art is communication. The need of the actor is to say hello to the audience.''
        For him, a part meant total immersion. When he played Napoleon, he read everything he could about Bonaparte, even the autopsy report. When he was the sheriff in ''In the Heat of the Night'' his director, Norman Jewison, said it became impossible to talk to Mr. Steiger because even when he was off the set, he insisted on speaking in the sheriff's southern drawl. His performance as Bill Gillespie won him the Academy Award for best actor. His two other Oscar nominations came in Budd Schulberg's ''On the Waterfront,'' in which he played Mr. Brando's greedy and manipulative brother, and as the central figure in ''The Pawnbroker.''
        In 1968, Mr. Steiger played a schizoid murderer in ''No Way to Treat a Lady,'' which required him to transform himself into an Irish priest, a German plumber, a homosexual hairdresser and a prostitute in drag. The movie received mixed reviews, but the critics, even those who thought Mr. Steiger sometimes overwhelmed a role, generally applauded his skill. ''No other major American actor could have brought off this kind of multifaceted tour de force,'' a Time magazine critic said.
        Rodney Stephen Steiger was born April 14, 1925, in Westhampton, N.Y., the only child of Frederick and Lorraine Driver Steiger. The Steigers had worked together as a song-and-dance team but Rod never knew his father. He said his father ran out on his mother and his mother dropped out of show business, working at relatively menial jobs, succumbing to alcoholism. Mr. Steiger recalled that as a child, he had to fetch her in saloons but the two always remained close. At night, he once recalled, she would entertain him by playing the piano and singing such songs as ''Shine On, Harvest Moon,'' and ''Roses of Picardy.''
        Soon after the Steigers were divorced, Mrs. Steiger and her son moved to New Jersey, and he attended public schools in Irvington, Bloomfield and Newark. Early in 1941 he dropped out of Newark's West Side High School, lied about his age (he was 16), enlisted in the Navy and spent most of World War II as a torpedoman, first class, aboard the destroyer Taussig in the South Pacific.
        After his discharge in 1945, he returned to Newark and took a job with the Veterans Administration ''oiling the check-signing machine and carrying boxes of checks around the office.'' It yielded a take-home pay of $27.50 a week. He decided to join a theater group within the civil service, mostly in the hope of meeting interesting women.
        One such woman became his drama coach, and she encouraged him to pursue an acting career. He used the benefits provided by the G.I. Bill of Rights to study acting first at the New School for Social Research in New York, later at the American Theatre Wing, the Drama Workshop, and at Actors Studio.
        By 1947 he was seeking and getting small roles on television plays, which in those days were done live. He lived with the fear that he would not be able to remember his lines, and Robert Aldrich, one of his directors in those days, thought Mr. Steiger probably worked harder than most to see to it that this never happened.
        In 1951, he made his Broadway debut in a revival of Clifford Odets's ''Night Music,'' and the following year appeared on Broadway again in ''Seagulls Over Sorrento,'' a comedy by Hugh Hastings. In 1953 he appeared again onstage in a production of ''An Enemy of the People'' by Ibsen.
        Between 1948 and 1953 he appeared in approximately 250 live television productions, playing such people as Rudolph Hess, Andrei Vishinsky, Dutch Schultz and Romeo. It culminated with winning the title role in Paddy Chayevsky's ''Marty.'' which was all about Marty Pilletti, a lonely, homely, unmarried butcher in the Bronx who thought he'd never find himself a girl. The critics were enthusiastic about his performance. Jack Gould, writing in The New York Times, noted that, ''To imbue life and credibility into an intentionally flat character is not easy, but Mr. Steiger did it.'' The performance won Mr. Steiger a Sylvania Award, which helped him get the role of Charley Malloy in ''On The Waterfront.'' In a bit of unusual casting, he was selected by Fred Zinnemann in 1956 to play Jud Fry in the film version of ''Oklahoma!'' In the role he both sang and danced, something he had never before done professionally. The critics approved, although some felt that Jud Fry became more of a character out of a Dostoyevsky novel than of a character of an Oscar Hammerstein libretto.
        Other films included ''Cry Terror'' (1958) and ''Al Capone'' (1959). He remained interested in the stage, appearing on Broadway in ''Rashomon'' in 1959 and in Orson Welles's blank verse adaptation of ''Moby Dick'' in 1962. The following yer he served as the voice of Poseidon in ''The Trojan Women,'' produced at the Circle in the Square. Returning to film in 1963, he played a crooked city councilman in an Italian film, ''Hands Over the City,'' and next year the title role in ''The Pawnbroker.'' For this work he received both the Berlin Film Festival Award for best actor and the British Film Academy Award, for best foreign actor in a leading role.
        Mr. Steiger said that his 1965 role in ''The Loved One,'' remained one of his favorites. In it, he played ''Mr. Joyboy,'' an asexual undertaker. One of his mistakes, he said, was turning down the role of Gen. George S. Patton when it was offered in the late 1960s because he thought it glorified war. George C. Scott got the role and won an Academy Award. ''I've always been some kind of pacifist,'' Mr. Steiger said.
        Mr. Steiger had undergone open-heart surgery in the 1970's and had a lifelong problem controlling his weight, which over the years went up to 240 pounds or more. He also had problems controlling his moods and intermittently suffered from serious depression, which he fought with extensive psychoanalysis. He said that seeing a psychiatrist enabled him to ''substitute one set of problems for another'' and to believe that the second set was ''easier to cope with.''
        Mr. Steiger was married five times and divorced four. His first marriage, in 1952 to Sally Gracie, lasted a few months, although they were not legally divorced until 1958. He married the actress Claire Bloom in 1959, and with her he had a daughter, Anna Justine, who was born in 1960 and who became an opera singer. Mr. Steiger married Sherry Nelson in 1973; that marriage lasted six years. Mr. Steiger then married Paula Ellis, a singer, whom he met in 1980 when she was 20 and he was 54. They had a son, Michael. His last marriage, in 2000, was to an actress, Joan Benedict.
        He said that in his later years, he was unable to get work ''because we live in a country that worships youth and has an absolute hysterical fear of death.'' He insisted that his skills as an actor improved with age. ''The fine actors are poets, mobile poets,'' he said. ''The mechanism may get old but the sense of poetry never dies.''
      