
        Ward Kimball, a Disney animator who created Jiminy Cricket, updated Mickey Mouse and brought the crows to life in a famous scene in ''Dumbo,'' died on Monday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 88 and lived in San Gabriel, Calif.
        Mr. Kimball was hired by Walt Disney in 1934 and became part of his inner circle of animators, known jokingly as the ''nine old men.'' He worked as the animator or directing animator on such Disney classics as ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,'' ''Pinocchio,'' ''Fantasia,'' ''The Three Caballeros,'' ''Cinderella,'' ''Mary Poppins'' and ''Peter Pan.'' In 1938, he was part of the team that redesigned Mickey Mouse, giving him more expressive eyes and puffier, friendlier cheeks.
        Mr. Kimball also headed the group that produced two Oscar-winning shorts, ''Toot, Whistle, Plunk and Boom'' (1953) and ''It's Tough to Be a Bird'' (1969).
        John Canemaker, the author of ''Disney's Nine Old Men and the Art of Animation'' (Disney Editions, 2001), said yesterday that Jiminy Cricket, Pinocchio's effervescent conscience, was a lot like his creator. ''Ward was a feisty, plucky short guy with a big personality who wasn't shoved around by any man or cricket,'' Mr. Canemaker said.
        ''There was something of the old song-and-dance vaudevillian in both of them.''
        Ward Kimball was born on March 4, 1914, in Minneapolis and attended the Santa Barbara School of the Arts with the intent of becoming a painter and illustrator. In March 1934, an instructor there urged him to submit a portfolio to the Walt Disney Studio in Los Angeles. Mr. Kimball started a month later and remained with Disney until he retired in 1973.
        Among his favorite work was the animation of the crows who laugh, sing and strut while giving Dumbo an important lesson in self-confidence. He also took pride in the madcap finale of ''The Three Caballeros'' where Donald Duck, Jose Carioca and Panchito zip madly about the screen performing the title number as props appear and disappear. Mr. Canemaker, the author, said that the scene was MTV before anyone knew what MTV was.
        Another characteristic Kimball scene was in ''Cinderella'' where the cat, Lucifer, sneaks up the stairs. ''Kimball has the cat's body conform to the shape of the staircase as he goes up, with the legs paddling in a very natural way,'' Mr. Canemaker added. ''It was naturalistic animation but very cartoony, a true Kimball moment.''
        In a 1978 interview, Mr. Kimball recalled his early days with Disney. ''I worked the first two weeks for nothing and then got $15 a week,'' he said. ''There was no pay for overtime and no air conditioning. We stripped to the waist in the summer and if a guy was taking himself too seriously we'd stick a flutter pad under his seat so he'd make a rude noise when he sat down.
        ''There were 180 people at the studio, including the night watchman and the janitors,'' he added. ''Today, it's a corporate structure, large and complicated place.''
        Mr. Kimball was also a Dixieland jazz trombonist who recorded with a group called ''The Firehouse Five Plus Two,'' and a railroad enthusiast. He had model trains in the basement of his home and a real coal burning locomotive plus 900 feet of track in his back yard.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Betty; three children, John, of Pasadena, Calif.; Kelly, of Altadena, Calif.; and Chloe Lord of Los Angeles; and five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        In the 1978 interview, Mr. Kimball reflected on youth. ''We thought we were always going to be 21 years old,'' he said. ''We thought we would always be putting goldfish in the bottled drinking water, balancing cups of water on the light fixtures, changing the labels on cans of sauerkraut juice. We were 21 years old, Walt was 30, leading the pack. Working there was more fun than any job I could ever imagine.''
      