
        William B. Ruger, an American gun designer who founded Sturm, Ruger & Company, the largest firearms manufacturer in the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Prescott, Ariz.. He was 86.
        The company, which Mr. Ruger started in 1949 in a partnership with Alexander McCormick Sturm, who died in 1951, is best known for its Western-style revolvers, but it also makes target pistols, police handguns, rifles and shotguns.
        Mr. Ruger, who was chairman emeritus, had a hand in the design and styling of all the weapons his firm produced.
        The company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1969 and last year had net sales of $174 million. It has some 1,500 employees at its plants in Prescott and in Newport, N.H., and at its corporate headquarters in Southport, Conn.
        William Batterman Ruger was born on June 21, 1916, in Brooklyn, and he received his first rifle from his father at age 12. As a teenager, he spent hours at the New York Public Library, reading everything he could find on the history, design and manufacture of guns. As a business student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, he turned an empty room into a machine shop. In 1938 he came up with the early designs for what eventually became a light machine gun for the Army.
        After two years at the university, Mr. Ruger left to work in a gun factory. Five years later, he struck out on his own as a toolmaker and promptly went bankrupt. But in the meantime, he had perfected a design for a .22-caliber automatic pistol. In 1949 he started making guns, helped by a $50,000 loan from Mr. Sturm, who was a friend.
        An opponent of gun control, Mr. Ruger argued in a 1981 interview with The New York Times that restricting gun access was ''a crudely simplistic approach'' to crime. ''We need to look at some of our social problems,'' he said, ''to marshal a new sense of right and wrong.''
        Mr. Ruger was a collector of antique firearms, 19th-century Western American art and old cars. In 1970 he designed and built a touring car called the Ruger Special, based on a 4.5-liter Bentley from 1929.
        His wife, Mary Thompson Ruger, died in 1994. Mr. Ruger is survived by a son, William B., of Croydon, N.H., who is chairman of the company, and a daughter, Carolyn R. Vogel of Harrisville, N.H.
      