
        Dr. Monroe E. Wall, a chemist who helped discover the cancer drugs Taxol and camptothecin, died on Saturday at a hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 85.
        The cause was heart and kidney failure, said the Research Triangle Institute in North Carolina, where he had worked for the last 42 years.
        Dr. Wall and a colleague, Dr. Mansukh C. Wani, studied thousands of plant and animal extracts for prospective cancer treatments in the 1960's before discovering paclitaxel, or Taxol, and camptothecin, two antitumor agents now widely used to fight ovarian, breast, colon and lung cancers, among others.
        Dr. Wall and Dr. Wani first reported the cancer-fighting effects of camptothecin, which they had obtained from a Chinese tree, in 1966.
        Five years later, they published their findings that Taxol, isolated from the Pacific yew tree, was effective at interfering with cell division in tumors. But because producing the drug was expensive and required cutting down large numbers of the rare trees, the National Cancer Institute declined to finance research on it.
        It was not until the late 1970's, when Dr. Susan Horwitz, a researcher in New York, made a crucial discovery about how the drug works, that the institute began ordering clinical testing of Taxol.
        Researchers soon found that both Taxol and camptothecin had unique mechanisms for inhibiting cancer cell growth, making them the prototypes for new classes of chemotherapy compounds.
        ''Taxol is considered one of the most important anticancer drugs of the past three decades,'' Dr. Samuel A. Wells, president of the General Motors Cancer Research Foundation, said in an interview this week. ''It is used to treat a wide variety of solid tumors but is best known for its effectiveness on ovarian carcinoma, a tumor that is very difficult to treat.''
        Taxol has also been effective against Kaposi's sarcoma, a cancer associated with AIDS, while camptothecin has been shown to be potent against colon cancer and has given rise to a host of other anticancer drugs, some of which are in clinical trials for treatment of breast cancer, leukemia and malignant melanoma.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Wall became one of the first scientists to use mass spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance to obtain the structures of drug metabolites.
        In 1998, he received the American Chemical Society's Alfred Burger Award, the most prestigious prize in medicinal chemistry. Two years ago, he and Dr. Wani won the Charles F. Kettering Prize, an international award, from the General Motors foundation.
        Born in Newark in 1916, Monroe Eliot Wall received his undergraduate, master's and doctoral degrees from Rutgers University. After two decades at the United States Department of Agriculture, he assumed leadership of the chemistry department at the Research Triangle Institute in 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, Marian, with whom he lived in Chapel Hill; a son, Michael, of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Martha Nebb of Potomac, Md.; two sisters, Martha Schonberg of Jersey City and Flora Friedman of West Orange, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
      