
        Jan Zamoyski, the head of one of Poland's richest and most powerful noble families, whose life reflected his country's turbulent and destructive political fate in the 20th century, died on June 29 in Warsaw. He was 90.
        In May 1939, just months before the invasion by Germany, Count Zamoyski succeeded his father as the 16th master of Zamosc, in southeastern Poland. This made him the country's biggest landowner, with nearly 500,000 acres of farmland and forest, sugar refineries, paper mills, sawmills and distilleries, a palace in Warsaw, and major collections of pictures, illuminated manuscripts and early books.
        A year later, after he had served as a lieutenant in the Polish Army during its futile defense against the Nazis, Count Zamoyski was back in Zamosc but leading a double life. Under German orders, he ran his vast agricultural estates to feed the occupying Nazi army. But he also worked secretly with the Polish underground resistance.
        In 1941, under the Nazis, Zamosc was renamed Himmlerstadt, and the occupiers began replacing Poles with German colonists, who were given any blond-haired Polish children younger than 8.
        Count and Countess Zamoyski tried to help their fellow Poles. About 500 children were saved from deportation and hidden on his estates, according to Adam Zamoyski, a relative now living in London. Valuables were sold to bribe the Nazis, and the count provided secret hiding places for resistance fighters, for people on the run from the Nazis (including Stefan Wyszynski, who became a cardinal and the Roman Catholic primate of Poland), and for escaped Allied prisoners and downed airmen.
        After the Soviet Army captured the region in 1944, it showed its distaste for aristocrats by imprisoning the count for a year and confiscating his possessions, even though he was by then a colonel in the Polish underground resistance to the Nazi occupation, according to obituaries in two leading Polish dailies.
        After being forced to take a series of menial jobs, he was arrested by the Communists in 1949 and sentenced to 25 years' imprisonment on trumped-up charges of collaboration with the Nazis and of espionage for the West.
        Released in 1956 after Stalin's death, Count Zamoyski again worked at various lowly jobs before becoming Swissair's Polish representative, a position that made him independent of the Polish Communist authorities and allowed him to travel.
        Born on the family estates at Klemensowo on June 12, 1912, the count was a direct descendant of an earlier Jan Zamoyski, who as Polish chancellor in 1578 commissioned the Paduan architect Bernardo Morando to build a perfect Renaissance city at Zamosc.
        Count Zamoyski was educated in Poland and France and started on a musical career at the conservatory in Nancy, in eastern France, before his father sent him to study economics in preparation for taking over the family's agricultural estates.
        Before the Zamoyski palace in Warsaw was bombed in the Nazi invasion, the count had hidden its artistic treasures in the cellars. He was eventually able to begin transferring them to monasteries and museums for safekeeping.
        After the count's release from prison, Adam Zamoyski said, he continued to oversee this transfer of family treasures to Poland's museums and churches and helped raise money abroad for the restoration of Zamosc.
        In the 1980's, as normal political life became possible again, he also helped re-establish the prewar National Democratic Party as a conservative party, shorn of the antiSemitic reputation it had acquired in prewar days. In 1989 he won a seat in the Senate in Poland's first free elections in 50 years, serving a single term.
        For many years he fought, with little success, for the return of Communist-confiscated lands and property to their original owners.
        His wife, the former Countess Roza Zoltiowska, died in 1976. He is survived by four daughters, Elzbieta Daszewska, Maria Poninska and Agnieszka Roznowska, all of Warsaw, and Gabriella Boguslawska, of Oslo; and a son, Marcin, who managed to buy back about 1,500 acres of the family estates near Zamosc that he now farms.
        The count was buried in the Renaissance cathedral at Zamosc, next to the city's founder, his kinsman and namesake.
      