
        Joaquín Balaguer, a former president of the Dominican Republic who was among the last of the classic Latin American strongmen and one of the longest-lasting political figures of the 20th century, died yesterday at a hospital in Santo Domingo. He was 95.
        Short, shrewd and indomitable, Mr. Balaguer ruled the Caribbean nation of eight million people with a sometimes ruthless manner for 22 years and six presidential terms. His years in power spanned the country's long path from dictatorship to democracy, and he adapted to the changing climate.
        Critics often called him the ''caudillo,'' or strongman, who would never disappear, who kept re-emerging as president no matter how many enemies he gathered along the way. He governed into his late 80's, when he was blind, practically deaf and stooped, but even then he managed to keep a tight rein on the government. In his signature dark suit and fedora, he traveled the country in a specially made car known as the Balaguermobile.
        Joining the Dominican government when Herbert Hoover was president of the United States and retaining a powerful role in public life and politics up until the hours before his death, Mr. Balaguer outlasted all of his Latin contemporaries except Fidel Castro.
        A lifelong bachelor who was close to his six sisters, and lived in the servants' quarters of his family mansion, Mr. Balaguer was hated for governing his nation with an iron fist, particularly during his first 12 years in office. He was heavily criticized then for using repressive and even brutal tactics reminiscent of his predecessor and patron, Rafael Trujillo.
        But he was also beloved for his beguiling, parental embrace of the country's most destitute people, thousands of whom made their way yesterday to the capital, Santo Domingo, to mourn outside his home on Main Street, where his body is to lie in state for three days.
        A lawyer, poet, university law professor, diplomat, Mr. Balaguer was also the author of numerous books, including one he wrote at the age of 14 and another in which he argued against interracial marriage and established him as a racist.
        He entered politics in 1932, ultimately becoming a key government official and protégé of General Trujillo, who effectively governed the country for 30 years as one of Latin America's most powerful dictators. When General Trujillo's brother, Hector, resigned as president in 1960, Mr. Balaguer, who was serving as vice president, succeeded him as the nominal chief of state, in a country that shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti.
        Mr. Balaguer distanced himself from General Trujillo and initially carved out a more moderate political stance. After General Trujillo was assassinated in 1961, he celebrated the end of the dictatorship by changing the name of the capital from Ciudad Trujillo back to Santo Domingo, the city's original name.
        But rioting and political turmoil erupted in 1962, and Mr. Balaguer was forced out of office and into exile, living briefly in New York City, where he formed his lasting right-wing political party.
        As the Dominican Republic was in the throes of civil war, he returned to the country in 1965, after President Lyndon B. Johnson sent in the Marines and supported Mr. Balaguer as the leader who could stave off the threat of communism and protect the country from becoming what Johnson called a ''second Cuba.'' Mr. Balaguer was a longtime ally of the United States.
        In 1966, he was elected in one of the Dominican Republic's first freely contested elections. Blending a mixture of relative economic prosperity that gave rise to the country's first solid middle class and was fueled by a seemingly endless stream of public works projects, Mr. Balaguer was re-elected to two more four-year terms. However, the opposition political party boycotted both elections, accusing the Balaguer government of fraudulent practices, charges that would re-emerge when he was elected again.
        His first term, his critics said, was marked by repression and severe punishment of his enemies, including journalists and political opponents on the left. He had a firm grip on the judicial system and used to the country's military to rule the country.
        ''He prolonged dictatorship unnecessarily,'' Bernardo Vega, a former Dominican ambassador to the United States who is now the editor of El Caribe, a major Dominican daily newspaper, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''He's part of the tradition here, the concept that Dominicans need strong government.''
        After three terms, Mr. Balaguer was defeated in presidential elections 1978 by the party in power today, the Dominican Revolutionary Party, but he was far from politically washed up.
        He remained the leader of the political party he had founded in the 1960's, now called the Social Christian Reform Party, and won another bid for power in 1986, ultimately serving for another 10 years. His second period in power, experts said, was much less harsh and was more democratic than his first.
        Still, he was considered a classic strongman, whose style was a combination of paternalism and authoritarianism. In 1990, Mr. Balaguer was narrowly re-elected again, and then backed down from a promise to serve only two years.
        In 1992, he built what became his most visible legacy, a widely criticized multimillion-dollar lighthouse that casts beams of light in the shape of a cross into the sky and was erected at a time when the country was facing 25 percent unemployment and severe electricity shortages. Also during the 1990's, he clashed bitterly with Haiti, as it was gripped by political turmoil.
        In 1994, he won again, in elections that were perceived as rigged, and under American and international pressure agreed to serve only two of the four years and end his official leadership of the country.
        In 2000, at 92, Mr. Balaguer ran for president again, but came in third.
        Eight hours before Mr. Balaguer died, the country's Congress amended the Constitution to remove term limits that had been imposed after Mr. Balaguer's rule and barred the re-election of presidents. Even on his death bed, Mr. Balaguer, who still headed the party that was supporting the amendment, was a major political player, with officials rushing to his bedside to garner his backing or ask him how to proceed, Mr. Vega said.
        Mr. Balaguer lived an austere life, shunning the largesse of General Trujillo and other dictators. In the later years of his life, after five sisters had died, he relied on his last sibling as a top aide who would do everything from reading him the morning newspapers to helping him run the government.
        To his death, he remained an enigma as a politician and a person.
        His life and personality inspired a 1995 novel, ''They Forged the Signature of God,'' by Viriato Sención, which drew on inside information and offended Mr. Balaguer. In a 1996 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Sención described his visits to Mr. Balaguer's home, to see one of his sisters. ''It was a most strange and curious household,'' he said. ''There were two female dwarfs, kept as mascots but who to this day are part of his retinue, and a pair of aggressive collies that, when they bit you, you had no choice but to sit there and smile.''
      