
        John J. Gilbert, one of the earliest and most persistent gadflies to speak out at annual meetings on behalf of small shareholders -- dramatizing his demands with such attention-getting props as a red clown's nose -- died on Monday at his daughter's home in Denver. He was 88.
        Margot Gilbert Frank, his daughter, said he became ill last September while attending a reception to honor his establishment of a chair in accounting at the University of Denver. He never returned to his home in Manhattan.
        Mr. Gilbert and his older brother, Lewis, each attended more than 80 annual meetings a year to press what they called corporate democracy. By persistently questioning chief executives -- not a few of whom considered it badgering -- they succeeded in prodding more companies to hold annual meetings in accessible locations, to issue post-meeting reports, to limit stock options for executives and to require the independent auditors of companies to attend meetings.
        Some companies were persuaded to adopt one of the Gilberts' pet ideas, cumulative voting for directors, which improves the chance of minority shareholders to name board representatives. Under this method, shareholders are permitted to cast all their votes for one candidate.
        As a result of cumulative voting, ''we can get honest directors on the board,'' Mr. Gilbert argued. ''We want to keep these companies honest.''
        Mr. Gilbert brought more flair to the campaign than his more cerebral brother. At a PepsiCo meeting, he donned his clown nose and asked why none of the directors were wearing PepsiCo ties.
        After being kicked out of a Chock Full o' Nuts meeting, he returned the next year with two pairs of boxing gloves hanging from his neck.
        The result approached outright theatricality in settings where a few shareholders had formerly gathered in small numbers to quickly and quietly pass the management agenda. Wilma Porter Soss, who once dressed as a cleaning woman to protest the quiz show scandals at CBS, and Evelyn Y. Davis, who waved an American flag at a General Motors meeting, were others who brought showmanship to the fight for shareholder rights. Sometimes, all appeared at the same meeting.
        But the Gilberts were leaders. In 1983, they proposed 198, or 20 percent, of the 972 resolutions proposed at annual meetings, according to the American Society of Corporate Secretaries. The next closest, with 100, was Andrew W. Duncan, a champion of conservative causes.
        John Jacob Gilbert was born in Manhattan on May 8, 1914. His father had owned part of a paper mill, but sold it and lived from investments.
        ''I was born with a silver spoon and polished it,'' Mr. Gilbert said. He attended private schools and graduated from Patrick Business School, since closed, in Manhattan.
        He and his brother started attending annual meetings in the 1930's, at first just to watch over their investments. But Mrs. Frank -- who along with three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren survives Mr. Gilbert -- said they were ''appalled'' at what they saw.
        ''It was like going to a private club,'' she said. ''It was the good old boys.''
        So they amassed relatively small blocks of stock in 1,500 companies, initially as an investment. Because of this, their early complaints often concerned companies that paid no dividends, but greatly increased executives' compensation.
        Mr. Gilbert considered his 1946 stand against the insurance company Transamerica a defining moment for outside shareholders. He proposed moving its annual meeting from Delaware, the state of incorporation, to California, where operations were. He further proposed that shareholders approve management's choice of auditors, and that those who could not attend be provided minutes.
        A result was that the Securities and Exchange Commission began to require that relevant shareholder resolutions be included in proxy statements. Mr. Gilbert called this ruling ''the Magna Carta'' for small shareholders. Not only did this propel his push for shareholders' economic rights, but such diverse shareholders as unions and churches started using proposals in proxies to advocate social and political causes.
        For 40 years, ending in 1979, the Gilberts published an annual compendium of activities at corporate meetings. They, of course, were often at the center of the action.
        At a Macy's annual meeting in 1963, for instance, John Gilbert railed against ''management stooges.''
        Jack I. Strauss, the company's chairman, replied, ''Mr. Gilbert, we love you.''
      