
        Col. Floyd J. Thompson, who for almost nine years endured cold cells, jungle cages and torture in Vietnam, becoming the longest-serving American prisoner of war in any conflict, died on Tuesday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 69.
        The cause was unclear, said Charles Ingraham, a spokesman for the Department of Veterans Affairs in Key West, who said Colonel Thompson's body was found in his condominium.
        Colonel Thompson was a major in the Army's Special Forces when he was taken prisoner in northern South Vietnam on March 26, 1964. When he was released on March 16, 1973, he had been a captive longer -- 10 days short of nine years -- than the earliest prisoners taken by the Japanese in December 1941 in World War II.
        Colonel Thompson, known as Jimmy, endured ''unfathomable deprivation and hardship,'' according to the citation accompanying his Distinguished Service Medal, awarded when he retired from the Army in 1982. He was beaten with bamboo sticks, kept in isolation, hung by his thumbs and punished viciously after each of his five escape attempts.
        He endured daylong interrogations and was forced to sign statements that he was being treated well. He suffered from malaria. He said later that he built an imaginary house, one nail and one tile at a time, as an exercise to stay sane.
        ''Dying is easy,'' he said a Vietcong camp commander told him. ''Living is the difficult thing.''
        Floyd James Thompson was born in Bergenfield, N.J., on July 8, 1933, the son of a bus driver. He worked in a grocery store and graduated from Bergenfield High School in 1951. He married Alyce DeVries a year after graduating and was drafted in 1956. A slight, freckle-faced young man, he was accepted into officers training and became a lieutenant.
        After a stint in Korea, he was assigned to the Special Forces, known for their distinctive green berets. In 1964, he was sent to South Vietnam, where he headed a 12-man team gathering intelligence. In March 1964, when a plane carrying the troops' payroll came to the team's base in Khe Sanh, he asked the pilot to take him on a brief reconnaissance mission. When he asked the pilot to fly lower to get a closer look, they were shot down.
        The pilot died in the crash. Colonel Thompson, a bullet wound across his cheek and his back broken, awoke to find a Montagnard tribesman trying to pry a ruby ring off his finger with a knife. The tribesman kept the ring but turned him over to the Vietcong, who hung him from his extremities for long periods.
        He was transferred to the North Vietnamese in 1968, ending up in the infamous prison known as the Hanoi Hilton.
        For months, his wife knew only that he was missing in action. Seven or eight months after his disappearance, a neighbor called to say that she had heard his voice on the radio. It was reported that Colonel Thompson endorsed Vietcong goals, but the Army never verified that the broadcast was authentic.
        Mrs. Thompson said she continued to believe that her husband was missing. She became involved with an Army sergeant, and moved into a house with the three daughters and a son from her marriage to Colonel Thompson. She told the children that their father was dead.
        She was expected to sit in a ''rocking chair with a prayer book and wait,'' she said in an interview for the book ''Glory Denied: The Saga of Jim Thompson,'' written by Tom Philpot and published by W W. Norton last year. ''I started to realize I had to fight for my kids and myself.''
        Colonel Thompson was released in 1973 and said he felt pure joy. At Clark Air Base in the Philippines, he was given a green beret and vowed that nobody would remove it without a fight.
        His marriage ended in divorce, as did a second one.
        Because his first wife had wanted it kept secret when it became definitely known he was a captive, the prisoner publicly identified as the longest-held was Lt.. Cmdr. Everett Alvarez of the Navy, who was in fact captured more than four months after Colonel Thompson.
        Colonel Thompson battled alcoholism and depression, and in 1981 suffered a stroke that put him in a coma for six months and left him partly paralyzed. In 1981, he was forced to retire from the Army, and he moved to Key West.
        He is survived by his daughters, Laura, Ruth and Pamela, and his son, Floyd Jr., who was born when his wife went into labor after learning that Colonel Thompson was missing in action.
        ''Like our nation, Jim suffered from the malaise that accompanies a lost cause once called glorious,'' Senator John McCain wrote in the forward to ''Glory Denied.'' ''In that sense, Jim's story is our own, viewed through the eyes of a man who sacrificed far more for it than most Americans would dare to imagine.''
      