
        Joseph Marie Antoine Hubert Luns, a former Dutch foreign minister and NATO secretary general, died yesterday, Dutch government officials said.
        Dr. Luns was 90 and living in Brussels. He suffered a stroke five years ago and had required close medical attention ever since.
        A hard-charging diplomat with a provocative wit, Dr. Luns parlayed his position as foreign minister of a small country to become an influential architect of the European Economic Community and NATO before he retired in 1983.
        Tall, ebullient and outspoken, Dr. Luns was known for shaking up fusty meetings with candid observations, even as he set about the serious business of negotiating the future of Berlin and paving the way for self-rule in the former Dutch colony of New Guinea four decades ago.
        As president of the NATO Council in 1959, Dr. Luns defended the West's decision to stand firm on shielding West Berlin from Soviet and East German pressure. Within two years, the East German government had erected the Berlin Wall.
        ''Appeasement is surrender in installments,'' Dr. Luns said. ''These crises are provoked by the Soviet to seek out our weak spots.''
        Widely known as a friend to the United States, Dr. Luns was a frequent visitor to this country in a career that spanned three decades. Known as Joe to his American colleagues, he met with successive United States presidents, beginning with President Eisenhower, and served as a bridge to Western Europe in coordinating a cold war strategy.
        But Dr. Luns, who became secretary general of NATO in 1971, after 19 years as foreign minister, did not shy away from confronting Washington. Despite his anti-Communist views, he was a strong advocate of a United States-Soviet rapprochement, and in his final years at NATO, he chided the Reagan administration for seeking military superiority over Moscow at the expense of arms control agreements.
        Early in his career, Dr. Luns was an avid supporter of European political integration and his efforts paved the way for the formation and expansion of the six-nation European Economic Community in the aftermath of World War II. When Britain balked, Dr. Luns held the door open; when France threatened to withdraw over voting and sovereignty issues, he called its bluff.
        Throughout his career, Dr. Luns wryly referred to his predicament as a public servant with strong personal views. Shortly after he took over as NATO secretary general, he observed: ''Of course, I am as wax in the ministers' hands. But wax, when it is cold, is tough, yes.''
        He was attuned to the dictates of domestic politics. When Hubert H. Humphrey, then vice president, called on Dr. Luns during a European tour in 1967, Mr. Humphrey praised some Girl Scouts who had greeted him and said they were ''getting prettier every year.''
        Dr. Luns teased the vice president. ''You are going into politics over here?'' he asked.
        Born in Rotterdam on Aug. 28, 1911, Dr. Luns studied law at Leyden and Amsterdam Universities, then studied political economy at the London School of Economics.
        He joined the foreign service in 1938 and married Baroness E. C. van Heemstra the following year. They lived in Bern until World War II broke out, when he was told to move to the Dutch Legation in Lisbon. In 1943 he became second secretary of the Dutch government-in-exile in London. After the war, he spent three years as the Dutch representative to the United Nations and was appointed foreign minister.
        Dr. Luns and his wife had two children, Hubert and Cornelia Sophie, but officials did not verify survivors.
      