
        Michael A. McCarthy, an architect who blended a cool sense of modernism with traditional Muslim forms to create New York's most significant new house of worship in recent decades, the Islamic Cultural Center mosque on the Upper East Side, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment Tuesday. He was 68.
        The results of an autopsy were not available yesterday, a spokeswoman for the chief medical examiner said.
        Mr. McCarthy was a design partner in the New York office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill until he retired in 1997. His work included the Milstein Hospital Building of 1990 at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, the Texaco headquarters of 1978 in Harrison, N.Y., and a dozen projects worldwide for the Chase Manhattan Bank, including 4 MetroTech Center of 1992 in downtown Brooklyn.
        He also served on the committee that advised Chase on its art purchases, a reflection of his own broad interests, which ranged from Shakespeare and the Bhagavad-Gita to the contemporary artists Nam June Paik and Dan Flavin, who collaborated on installations for the lobby of the MetroTech building.
        Mr. McCarthy was born in Buffalo and is survived by a sister, Susan, who lives there. After attending Cornell and Harvard, he joined Skidmore in 1964 and was named a partner nine years later.
        His signature on the New York skyline is the crescent-topped dome of the 11-year-old mosque at Third Avenue and 97th Street, on which he worked with Mustafa K. Abadan. Its distinctiveness begins with its orientation, 29 degrees off the street grid, which permits worshipers in the prayer hall to face Mecca.
        Even with unmistakably Islamic features -- stylized calligraphic renditions of the name of Allah and verses from the Koran, a niche known as a mihrab that points toward Mecca, a staircase and pulpit called a minbar -- the sanctuary has a crisp, machine-tooled precision to it. It is also flooded with daylight, which enhances a sense of tranquillity.
        The mosque was planned along a three-dimensional grid based on a 90-foot cube. Mr. McCarthy, who worked widely in the Middle East, discerned a relationship between this organizing principle and classic Islamic design. ''The essence of their tradition,'' he said, ''was that they were the most imaginative people in their use of geometry.''
        But ultimately, Mr. McCarthy said, ''Our instructions were to design a mosque for Manhattan, for the 21st century.''
      