
        John Cocke, a leading computer scientist whose inventions spanned an uncommon range of computing technology from software to microprocessors, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 77.
        The cause was a long illness, including a series of strokes, said his nephew Norman Cocke.
        Mr. Cocke (rhymes with ''sock'') was the principal designer of the type of microprocessor that serves as the engine of most of today's large, powerful computers and the Apple Macintosh personal computers. Machines using his chip design -- a simplification of the hardware, which opened the door to faster computation -- are reduced instruction-set computers, or RISC.
        Throughout his long career as a researcher for I.B.M., Mr. Cocke was also responsible for a host of other innovations. He was a leader in the arcane but vital field of designing more efficient software compilers -- the software that translates instructions written in a programming language understood by human programmers into the vernacular of all computers, the 1's and 0's of digital code. Mr. Cocke also came up with ideas that helped advance fields as diverse as speech-recognition technology and data storage.
        In computer science circles, Mr. Cocke was renowned for the breadth of his intellect, his energy, his insights and his unconventional working methods.
        A former colleague, Paul M. Horn, who had joined I.B.M.'s research labs after a career as a physics professor at the University of Chicago, recalled that when he worked on weekends, Mr. Cocke was invariably in the labs. The senior researcher, Mr. Horn recalled, would drop by and engage the newcomer in long discussions of the finer points of unification theory in physics. ''John Cocke knew as much about high-energy physics as I did, and it wasn't even his field,'' said Mr. Horn, who is the director of I.B.M.'s research division.
        Even after he retired in 1992, Mr. Cocke always displayed ''a wonderful childlike curiosity -- he was interested in everything,'' recalled R. Andrew Heller, who collaborated with Mr. Cocke on the RISC technology, beginning in the late 1960's.
        The RISC chip design, experts say, was a striking example of Mr. Cocke's defining attribute. His deep understanding of both the computer hardware and software, and their interaction, often enabled Mr. Cocke to pierce through the complexity of computer problems with fresh insights.
        ''No matter how hard a problem appeared, he always assumed there was a simpler solution, and usually this led him to finding one,'' said Marvin Minsky, a computer scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Cocke, who was seldom in his office, worked by roaming the halls. He was a chain smoker for much of his life, and the best way to find him in the I.B.M. labs, colleagues say, was to follow the trail of cigarette butts in the ashtrays of the offices he had visited, with the freshest ones indicating where he had visited most recently.
        With his eclectic intellect and itinerant working style, Mr. Cocke often kept dialogues going with people on different subjects that spanned months, even years. ''He would start up a conversation with you on some detailed technical subject, plunging right in where he left off the last time he saw you a couple of months earlier,'' recalled Frances Allen, an I.B.M. researcher who collaborated with Mr. Cocke on compiler research. ''It was one of John's traits that took a little getting used to.''
        Within I.B.M., Mr. Cocke's eccentric ways were legend, especially his periodic disregard for paychecks and stock certificates. His assistants, colleagues say, routinely combed through his trash to make sure he had not inadvertently discarded things of value. Before he was married in 1989 to Anne Holloway, Mr. Cocke, a longtime bachelor, would often wear the same clothes for a week or so, friends say.
        Mr. Cocke is survived by his wife, three nephews and a niece.
        Born on May 30, 1925, Mr. Cocke was raised in Charlotte, N.C. His father, Norman Cocke, was the president of the Duke Power Company and a trustee of Duke University. John Cocke's curiosity, which would prove so valuable later in his life, was evident early. As an adult, Mr. Cocke once recalled that when he was given his first bicycle at the age of 6, he dismantled it within a few hours, much to the chagrin of his mother, Mary. Mr. Cocke joined I.B.M.'s research labs in 1956 after he received a doctorate in mathematics from Duke, and he remained with the company until he retired.
        Mr. Cocke rarely published research papers, but that did little to prevent him from gaining widespread recognition in the field. In 1987, he received the Turing Award, which has been called the Nobel prize of computer science. Among other prizes, he was also awarded the National Medal of Technology, in 1991, and the National Medal of Science, in 1994.
      