
        Mario Juruna, a chief of the Xavante Indians of central Brazil and the only Indian to serve in the Brazilian Congress, died on Tuesday in Brasília. He was 58.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokesman for Santa Lúcia Hospital.
        Mr. Juruna was elected to Brazil's lower house of Congress in 1982. A vocal critic of government policies, Mr. Juruna represented Rio de Janeiro State until 1986, when he lost a bid for re-election.
        Mr. Juruna was raised in the interior of Mato Grosso, where his tribe, the Xavante (pronounced SHA-vanteh), were known in the 1930's for their resistance against intruders. By the 1960's, however, Xavante lands were flooded with settlers.
        Many members of the tribe took refuge in villages under the administration of Funai, the Indian affairs bureau, as their society shifted from hunting and gathering to dependence on tractor-driven rice farming and outside assistance.
        Mr. Juruna, who learned to speak Portuguese only at 16, emerged as an advocate of Indian rights. In the late 1970's, he traveled to Brasília to request an audience with President Ernesto Geisel to try to secure blankets and shoes for the Xavante.
        That effort failed, but Mr. Juruna remained in the capital. A folkloric figure, Mr. Juruna carried a tape recorder to register the promises of politicians. He collected these recordings in a book, ''Juruna's Tape Recorder,'' published in 1983.
        In 1984, Mr. Juruna charged that an ally of a right-wing politician, Paulo Salim Maluf, tried to bribe him to vote in the electoral college for Mr. Maluf, who was running against Tancredo Neves. Mr. Maluf's campaign denied any bribery. Mr. Neves eventually won that vote, an important episode in the re-emergence of democracy after military rule.
        After losing his re-election bid, Mr. Juruna grew more resentful of Brazil's political system. He moved to a modest home in Guará, a poor satellite city near Brasília, where he occasionally spoke to visitors on what he viewed as systemic corruption gripping Brazil.
        ''Many men climbed higher on my shoulders,'' Mr. Juruna once said. ''Many white men did this. After my term, I was abandoned.''
        Mr. Juruna was married twice and is survived by his current and former wives, and by 12 children, the newspaper O Estado de São Paulo reported.
      