
        Seymour SolomonSeymour Solomon, who with his brother, Maynard, founded Vanguard Records in 1950 and turned it into the dominant label for American folk music, recording such artists as Joan Baez, Odetta, Buffy Sainte-Marie and Ian & Sylvia, died yesterday at his summer home in Lenox, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        The hallmark of Vanguard was to take chances. It did so from its earliest days by breaking with the music industry's blacklist of performers who had been singled out during the McCarthy era. The Solomons signed up the Weavers and Paul Robeson, who had been widely shunned.
        Vanguard also became the home of blues and jazz legends like Mississippi John Hurt, Big Mama Thornton, Buddy Guy and Charlie Musselwhite. Beginning in 1959 Vanguard recorded the Newport Folk Festival and later the Newport Jazz Festival. Beginning in the 1960's, Vanguard recorded Peter Schickele, who introduced the works of his fictional P.D.Q. Bach.
        Vanguard had its roots in classical music and always maintained a strong list in that area, although it was overshadowed by its popular music. In the summer of 1950, Mr. Solomon took a tape recorder and traveled to Vienna, where he captured the Bach cantatas performed by the Vienna Philharmonic, the Vienna State Opera and the conductor Felix Prohaska. These became the first issues of the Bach Guild label, which was dedicated to recording the complete choral works of J. S. Bach.
        Later that year, the Solomons founded the Vanguard Recording Society, which became the parent company of the Bach Guild. Seymour Solomon became president and Maynard, the younger brother, vice president. They started the business with a $10,000 loan from their father.
        Vanguard took full advantage of what in 1950 was an emerging technology, the LP, or long-playing recording, which held more songs than faster-spinning 78-r.p.m. discs. Vanguard grew quickly, eventually becoming a major independent label.
        Vanguard also gained attention as an eclectic label, releasing recordings that ranged from music of the Belle Époque to the first recordings of Mahler's ''Knaben Wunderhorn.'' Among the classical artists it recorded were Alfred Brendel, Peter Serkin and Mischa Elman.
        Many musicologists date the beginning of the folk music revival to Vanguard's 1956 release of ''The Weavers at Carnegie Hall.'' Vanguard followed that by signing up some of the biggest names in folk music and going on to record folk and jazz festivals.
        Mr. Solomon was born in Manhattan, and studied violin at Juilliard. During World War II he joined the Air Corps Orchestra, based in Greensboro, N.C., as a violinist, and in 1945 he played for American troops in the Far East.
        When he returned home, he attended graduate school in musicology at New York University and then became a critic for several music magazines and did commentary on New York radio stations. He later explained that he entered the record business because he was unhappy with the offerings of the music companies and felt he could do better.
        In 1985 Mr. Solomon and his brother sold Vanguard to the Welk Record Group. Three years later, Seymour Solomon opened a new company, Omega Classics, and in 1990 he bought back from Welk Vanguard's old classical catalog. He reissued Vanguard's original catalog on compact discs under the Omega and Vanguard Classics labels.
        Mr. Solomon is survived by Maynard Solomon, of Manhattan; a sister, Mildred Gelbloom of Newton, Mass.; three daughters, Susan, of Manhattan, Gail Cote of Houston and Carol, of Oakland, Calif.; a stepson, Andrew Chesler of Manhattan; and nine grandchildren.
        For many of the recordings released by Vanguard, Mr. Solomon was not only the company president but the producer. ''I had an ideal sound in my ear,'' he once told an interviewer. ''There's only one way to do a recording. You have to produce it yourself.''
        Correction:  July 22, 2002, Monday  An obituary on Friday about Seymour Solomon, a founder of Vanguard Records, omitted some survivors. Besides his wife, Pearl Canick Solomon, they include Leola Dubinett and Ruth K. Solomon, whose marriages to Mr. Solomon ended in divorce.
      