
        John Grigg, a conservative journalist, biographer and polemicist whose role in British public discourse bore resemblances to that of William F. Buckley Jr. in the United States, died on Dec. 31 in London, where he lived. He was 77.
        Betraying in his thinking what he referred to as ''the tension between a radical temperament and the conventional spirit of Toryism,'' he even dared to criticize the queen in print, comparing her public personality to that of ''a priggish schoolgirl.''
        For his remarks he was publicly struck in the face by a member of the League of Empire Loyalists. Despite this sort of bravado, he was a serious biographer, and his most notable work was a multivolume biography of Lloyd George, prime minister from 1916 to 1922, for whom Mr. Grigg's father had worked.
        Originally planned as five volumes, three of which had appeared by the time Mr. Grigg died, the biography was praised for its detail and breadth of perspective.
        But Mr. Grigg was best known as an iconoclast. As a professed radical Tory, he argued that even the most respected institutions must change with the times.
        In the 1950's, as editor of The National and English Review, he excited indignation with what he called constructive criticism of the monarchy, in which he called the queen's public speaking style ''a pain in the neck.'' In response he was challenged to a match with the boxer Henry Cooper and described by the Most Rev. Dr. Geoffrey Fisher, the archbishop of Canterbury, as ''very silly.''
        John Edward Poynder Grigg was born in London on April 15, 1924, the eldest son of the first Lord Altrincham (a title the son inherited and later renounced) and Lady Grigg, the former Joan Dickson-Poynder and only child of the first and last Lord Islington, under secretary of state for India. Mr. Grigg's father had been on the editorial staff of The Times of London, worked for Lloyd George as a policy adviser and later became governor of Kenya.
        After Eton, Mr. Grigg served in the Grenadier Guards during the latter part of World War II and studied modern history at New College, Oxford, where he won the Gladstone Memorial Prize in 1948. He later became associate editor of The National Review, the journal of conservative thought and opinion that his father had recently bought. Its name was changed in 1950 to The National and English Review.
        After his father's retirement in 1954, he became editor and introduced a more radical brand of conservatism. When the magazine closed in 1960, Mr. Grigg became a regular columnist for The Guardian and later wrote for The Times and The Spectator. He was chairman of the London Library from 1985 to 1991, and was president from 1996 until his death. He was a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, and two sons.
      