
        George Rickey, a sculptor widely known for his abstract kinetic sculptures, died on Wednesday at his home in St. Paul, Minn. He was 95.
        Mr. Rickey was one of two major 20th-century artists to make movement a central interest in sculpture. Alexander Calder, whose mobiles Mr. Rickey encountered in the 1930's, was the other. After starting out as a painter, Mr. Rickey began to produce sculptures with moving parts in the early 50's, but it was not until a decade later that he achieved the kind of simplicity and scale that would make him an important figure in contemporary art. At that point, he began to produce tall stainless-steel sculptures with long, spearlike arms attached to central posts. Rotating on precision bearings devised by the artist, the arms were balanced so that slight breezes would cause them to sweep like giant scissor blades, tracing graceful arcs or circles against the sky.
        In the ensuing years, Mr. Rickey set in motion all kinds of geometric configurations -- wavering stacks or grids of flat squares, shifting open rectangles, zigzagging beams, spinning shell-like forms. His work was often compared with Calder's, but while Calder's abstract mobiles had playful, organic qualities related to Surrealism, Mr. Rickey's geometric forms and machinelike engineering harked back to Constructivism. That was the early-20th-century Russian movement about which Mr. Rickey wrote a scholarly book (''Constructivism: Origins and Evolution,'' George Barziller, 1967).
        His work was also in step with new sculpture trends toward abstract simplification. Unlike the Minimalists, however, whose elementary structures tended to bore or mystify many viewers, the fascinating movements of Mr. Rickey's sculptures appealed to a wide audience, and he received commissions from all over the world to create public works.
        Mr. Rickey was born on June 6, 1907, in South Bend, Ind. In 1913 the family moved to Scotland, where his father, an engineer for the Singer Sewing Machine Company, had been transferred. While studying modern history at Oxford, Mr. Rickey also took courses in painting and drawing at the Ruskin School of Drawing and Fine Art. After graduation, he went to Paris to study art at the Académie Lhote and at the Académie Moderne, where he worked under the Modernist painters Fernand Léger and Amédée Ozenfant.
        After teaching history briefly at Groton School in Massachusetts, Mr. Rickey devoted himself to painting full time. He had his first solo exhibition at the Caz-Delbo Gallery in New York in 1933, and a year later he moved to New York and set up a studio. His early paintings reflected the influences of Cézanne and Social Realism. During the late 30's, Mr. Rickey taught art at several schools, including Olivet College and Kalamazoo College in Michigan, Knox College in Illinois and Muhlenberg College in Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Rickey served in the Army Air Corps in World War II. He was assigned to work with engineers in a machine shop to improve aircraft weaponry, an experience that reawakened earlier interests in science and technology. After the war, he resumed his peripatetic teaching career. A year studying Bauhaus teaching methods at the Chicago Institute of Design in the late 1940's was decisive, for it was there that he seriously began to consider the idea of bringing together geometric form and movement. In 1949, while working as an associate professor at Indiana University, he made his first kinetic sculpture using window glass.
        In 1960 Mr. Rickey moved to East Chatham, N.Y., which remained his home base until the end of his life. He retired from teaching in 1966 after five years at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., but continued to make sculpture and to travel incessantly. To keep up with his public commissions and exhibitions, he maintained studios in Berlin and in Santa Barbara, Calif. His last sculpture -- his tallest, at 57 feet 1 inch -- was installed at the Hyogo Museum in Japan on March 30.
        Mr. Rickey's wife, the former Edith Leighton, whom he married in 1947, died in 1995. He is survived by his sons, Philip, of St. Paul, Minn., and Stuart, of San Francisco.
        It is a curious fact of contemporary art history that Mr. Rickey left no significant artistic heirs. Perhaps because movement in art is now found mainly on video screens, no sculptor has adopted his innovations with comparably persuasive ambition or elegance.
      