
        Chaz M. Holder, a triple amputee who devised a new way of making artificial legs and arms, died on July 4 at his home in Fayetteville, N.C. He was 55.
        The cause was a heart attack, Ruth Clark, his business partner, said.
        Dr. Holder was many things, including a Protestant minister, racecar driver, master mechanic, restaurant owner, anatomic illustrator, disabled rights advocate and holder of a Cambodian medical degree. But it was after he lost his legs eight years ago that he found his mission.
        He invented lighter, cheaper prosthetic limbs that can be fitted in less than half an hour with only a screwdriver. Not only had he begun to sell them through his company, CZBioMed Enterprises, but he also distributed them free to amputees in third world countries.
        Enabledonline.com, a Web site that addresses concerns of the disabled, said, ''By far, the devices built by CZBioMed Enterprises have the most advanced design and are the most practical-to-use prostheses available.''
        Last year, the Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose selected Dr. Holder and his invention for one of five awards for new technologies that have most benefited humanity. He received the award for the innovation that most improved human equality.
        ''While the new concept in prosthetics alone makes Holder a brilliant problem-solver, he didn't stop there,'' the citation accompanying the $50,000 award said. ''He saw an opportunity to bring vastly improved technology to the world's estimated 25 million amputees who do not have access to expensive prosthetic limbs.''
        Dr. Holder attached 400 prosthetic devices on patients in Sierra Leone and Vietnam, and had begun a program to distribute them in Afghanistan. Working with the Marshall Legacy Institute of Alexandria, Va., he was at the time of his death completing the first phase of a contract with the Army to provide prosthetic devices to people assigned to clear minefields.
        In a document authorizing the contract, the Army said the device, as proposed, would provide up to 24 inches of additional distance from a mine. An analysis of 163 people injured while cleaning mines showed that 55 percent of them had injuries to the hand or lower arm, meaning they would have been protected by the prosthesis.
        Ms. Clark said she believed that this would be the first time a prosthetic device was used to protect people from injury, rather than to aid them afterward.
        Chaz Michael Holder was born in Kalamazoo, Mich., on April 6, 1947. His father was supervisor of the state mental hospital in Kalamazoo, and he loved to play on the grounds. The gardener built him a child-size house.
        He graduated from Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo where he majored in art and English. He then earned a master's degree and a doctorate in engineering in fine arts from Drake University in Des Moines.
        He served in the Army during the Vietnam War, spending much of his time in Cambodia. Though Ms. Clark said that much of what he did there remains classified, she said he had piloted a Douglas A-1 Skyraider owned by the Cambodian military and graduated from Phnom Penh Wat Medical College in Phnom Penh.
        Dr. Holder was never licensed as a doctor in the United States, Ms. Clark said, but he was an associate member of the American Medical Association.
        He returned to Kalamazoo, where he ran a car dealership and became a factory-certified master mechanic for Ferraris. He also raced Ferraris and in 1980, racing at Black Hawk Farms Raceway in Wisconsin, suffered a near-fatal crash. He had burns over 60 percent of his body and spent six months in a burn unit.
        He had lost his left arm below the elbow in an industrial accident in the late 1970's, and in the early 1980's moved to Hilton Head, S.C. Around 1992, he began to incrementally lose his legs, in successive operations. Ms. Clark said doctors had attributed their deterioration to the car accident and exposure to chemicals during the Vietnam War.
        He continued to drive a manual-transmission Ferrari even after both of his legs were amputated below the knee. He switched to an automatic transmission when operations went above the knee on his right side.
        He and his fourth wife, the former Anne Parry, moved to Fayetteville in the early 1990's. He is also survived by his daughter, Sarah Holder, and his brother, John, of Kalamazoo.
        Dr. Holder turned his attention to developing a new kind of prostheses when he became frustrated with the pain and expense of his own artificial limbs. His essential innovation, for which patents are pending, was to eliminate the traditional socket that is fitted into the remaining part of an amputated limb. The prosthesis is then fitted into the socket.
        ''Artificial limb design as we know it today is a 19th-century technology that emerged after the Civil War,'' he said in an interview with enabledonline.
        His design uses a sling of non-stretch fabric to hold the prosthesis to the body. A wire resembling a bicycle brake line attaches to a hook for a hand. The wearer operates the hook by arching his back muscles. The limb is made from aluminum and plastics.
        Ms. Clark said one advantage the technique had over sockets was that the socket does not have to be rebuilt as a child grows. She said she would continue Dr. Holder's efforts to commercialize the technology.
        Dr. Holder could not stand not being busy. Even as he concentrated on selling his prostheses, he was working with a local doctor trying to find new ways to control bone growth on an amputated limb. An ordained minister, he recently agreed to serve as dean of Grace College of Divinity, a small school in Chapel Hill, N.C. He served on the Human Relations Commission of Fayetteville.
        This almost legendary energy was apparent in the days after an operation in which he lost another part of his leg: he rebuilt an automobile engine in his kitchen as a way to keep himself from being bored.
      