
        Jack Olsen, a writer famous for his meticulously researched and psychologically illuminating true-crime books, died Tuesday at his home on Bainbridge Island, Wash. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Su.
        Mr. Olsen wrote more than 30 books, on subjects ranging from Cassius Clay to Italian partisans during World War II to the Chappaquiddick scandal.
        But it was Mr. Olsen's compelling portraits of real-life criminals and their victims that earned him the most acclaim.
        In a review in The New York Times of Mr. Olsen's ''Salt of the Earth: One Family's Journey Through the Violent American Landscape'' (St. Martin's Press, 1996), Mark Arax wrote that Mr. Olsen ''has transported his readers inside the souls of some of this country's most depraved criminals.'' Mr. Olsen's portraits of criminals, Mr. Arax wrote, ''are so haunting in their detail that they manage to reveal both evil and the evil that masquerades as humdrum.''
        Mr. Olsen worked as a journalist for more than 25 years, as a newspaper reporter in San Diego and, later, as the Midwest bureau chief of Time magazine and a senior editor of Sports Illustrated.
        In a 1993 interview with The Times, Mr. Olsen traced his fascination with crime to a field trip to a prison that was part of a criminality course he took while at college in Pennsylvania. He was struck by how ordinary the inmates looked, he said, explaining, ''I thought that criminals looked different.''
        ''I start every book with the idea that I want to explain how this seven or eight pounds of protoplasm went from his mommy's arms to become a serial rapist or serial killer,'' he said.
        Mr. Olsen's latest book, ''I: The Creation of a Serial Killer,'' about Keith Hunter Jesperson, is scheduled to be released next month by St. Martin's Press.
        Mr. Olsen had recently finished the first volume of a three-part memoir, called ''The Pitcher's Kid,'' about growing up in the suburbs of Philadelphia, his wife said.
        In addition to Su Olsen, his fourth wife, Mr. Olsen is survived by four daughters, Susan Jetley of Longmont, Colo., Julia Olsen of Denver, Barrie Olsen of New York and Emily Sara Bischoff of Bainbridge Island; and three sons, Jack, of Niwot, Colo., Evan, of Little Rock, Ark., and Harper, of Seattle. He is also survived by his mother, Florence Mae Olsen of Yeadon, Pa.; his sister, Carolyn Grentz of Havertown, Pa.; eight grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      