
        The Rev. Ernest Gordon of Princeton University died early Wednesday, some 60 years after he began to find his religious faith in the squalor, cruelty and death of a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp along the Kwai River. He was 85.
        Mr. Gordon, the retired dean of the chapel and university chaplain emeritus, died at Princeton Medical Center after a long illness, his family said.
        The story of Mr. Gordon's ordeal and how he forgave his captors is told in the movie ''To End All Wars,'' to be released this spring. It is based on Mr. Gordon's 1962 book ''Through the Valley of the Kwai,'' which will be re-released this year by HarperCollins.
        As a young Scotsman, Mr. Gordon never thought much about God. He often said he began to find him when he was captured by the Japanese in the summer of 1942 and forced with thousands of other captives to build a railroad through the jungles of Burma and Siam (now Myanmar and Thailand) along the Kwai River.
        A typical daily ration was a lump of rice. The men toiled under a broiling sun and in torrential rains. Those whom the Japanese guards considered slackers were beaten or thrown into cages, if they were fortunate. The unlucky were starved to death, bayoneted or beheaded.
        ''We were treated worse than animals,'' he said years later. ''The conditions were worse than you could imagine.''
        But in that hell, he said, he found his salvation. ''Faith thrives when there is no hope but God,'' he said. ''It is luxury and success that makes men greedy.''
        Born in Greenock, Scotland, on May 31, 1916, Ernest Gordon grew up in a lighthouse on the River Clyde. His father, James, was an engineer. His mother, Sarah, was an amateur opera singer.
        He studied history and philosophy at Glasgow and St. Andrews universities, joined the Royal Air Force in 1936 and survived a plane crash near London in 1937. The next year he became an army officer in the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders and was soon sent to Singapore.
        Captain Gordon was wounded in a battle with the Japanese in Malaya in the early days of the war. A company commander by the time Singapore fell in the spring of 1942, he and a small group from his unit escaped to sea in an aging sloop, hoping to land in what is now Sri Lanka. But after nearly eight weeks on the water, surviving on fish, coconuts and rainwater, they encountered a Japanese warship and surrendered.
        Japan was hoping to build a railroad through the jungles as an invasion route to India. The tracks would run over a bridge, whose construction was depicted in the 1957 movie ''The Bridge on the River Kwai.''
        The men worked from dawn to dark. Beatings were routine. Sickness was everywhere. Early on, the Japanese thwarted an escape attempt by an Australian soldier. ''So he was sentenced to death,'' Mr. Gordon told parishioners at a Good Friday service in Gladstone, N.J., in 1990. ''The Japanese made it a public spectacle.''
        But as he was marched before a Japanese officer for beheading, the soldier seemed unafraid, even cheerful. He was allowed to read briefly from a Bible. ''Cheer up,'' he said, seeing the distress in his comrades' faces. ''It isn't as bad as all that. I'll be all right.''
        Then, Mr. Gordon recalled, ''He knelt, bared his neck, and the samurai sword flashed in the sun.''
        Dozens of men died every day, untold thousands from 1942 to 1945. ''For a long time hate, for some, was the only motivation for staying alive,'' Mr. Gordon said long afterward. ''We hated the Japanese and we would willingly have killed them, torn them apart, if they had fallen into our hands.''
        Captain Gordon came down with diphtheria, malaria, typhoid, dysentery, intestinal worms. His 6-foot-3 frame wasted to skin and bones.
        When a monsoon flooded the camp, his friends moved him to a higher, drier place -- the camp morgue, where he lay with the stench of death all around. ''I was better off there with the dead than with the partially living,'' he remembered. ''I still have no idea how long I was in there.''
        Friends brought Captain Gordon part of their rations. One prisoner gave a guard his watch in exchange for medicine. Another fellow captive made him a cake of rice, bananas, palm sugar and limes for his 27th birthday, on May 31, 1943.
        His return from the brink of death inspired his friends, just as their sacrifices had inspired him and convinced him of humankind's basic nobility. He became an unofficial camp chaplain and started prayer services.
        The suffering and dying went on until the summer of 1945. Allied planes were overhead more frequently, and on June 24, 1945, they destroyed the Kwai bridge.
        The prisoners were moved to the hills outside Bangkok. During the transfer, they passed a group of Japanese soldiers who had been badly wounded. Seeing their suffering, Captain Gordon could not hate them. And, as he often reflected, he knew that if he let himself be consumed by hate, he would be squandering the life that had been given back to him.
        With the war's end, the Japanese guards simply walked away.
        Mr. Gordon underwent months of medical treatment before his health and weight were restored. He resumed his studies and decided to become a minister, earning degrees from London University and Hartford Theological Seminary in Connecticut. He also received a master's from the Hartford seminary.
        Mr. Gordon was ordained in the Church of Scotland in 1950 and came to the United States not long after. He settled on Long Island, preaching in Amagansett and Montauk. In 1954, he became Presbyterian chaplain at Princeton and a year later dean of chapel, a post in keeping with the university's Presbyterian roots.
        As dean of chapel, he spoke out often on social issues. He criticized Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin and had the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as a house guest. He spoke in opposition to the Vietnam War and for a time was president of the Christian Rescue Effort for the Emancipation of Dissidents, which pushed for the release of Soviet dissidents. He retired as dean in 1981.
        His wife of 51 years, Helen, died in 1997. He is survived by his son, Alastair, of Princeton; his daughter, Gillian Crozier, of London; his sister, Grace Kerr, of Ramsgate, England, and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Gordon's book, one of several he wrote on faith and other subjects, attracted some off-and-on interest from moviemakers before the producer Jack Hafer acquired the rights.
        Early in 2000, Mr. Gordon journeyed to Thailand for a cameo role in the film. There, he embraced another old man, Nagase Takashi, a former Japanese officer who served as an interpreter in the work camps. Mr. Takashi regretted what Japan had done and spent many years publicly urging his countrymen to recognize their guilt, Alastair Gordon said.
        The trip back was too much emotionally for the elder Mr. Gordon, who collapsed and had to be hospitalized, his son said. And though Ernest Gordon did not live to see the movie come out, he was treated to a private screening last fall.
        Mr. Hafer said the old man turned to him in tears when it was over. ''Jack, you caught the heart of it,'' he said.
      