
        Ian Hamilton, a British poet, editor, critic and biographer whose unauthorized biography of J. D. Salinger was barred by the courts even as bound galleys were being sent to reviewers, died on Dec. 27 in London. He was 63.
        The cause was not disclosed, said a spokesman for Between the Lines, a literary journal for which Mr. Hamilton worked as an editor.
        Mr. Hamilton, chain-smoking and drinking prodigiously, prowled the British literary landscape in the last third of the 20th century, establishing a reputation for brutal criticism and elegiac, if minimalist, poetry. He founded two influential literary journals and was an editor of the Times Literary Supplement, among other publications.
        But it was his pursuit of Mr. Salinger that drew the most attention. Indeed, after a federal appellate court reversed a lower court and barred publication of ''J. D. Salinger: A Writing Life,'' Mr. Hamilton reversed field and wrote another book with himself as a main character. Called ''In Search of J. D. Salinger'' (Random House, 1988), it described his thwarted chase.
        As a young man, Mr. Hamilton had been deeply influenced by Mr. Salinger's ''Catcher in the Rye'' and decided to follow his own highly praised 1982 biography of Robert Lowell Jr. with one on the reclusive Mr. Salinger, who refused to cooperate, having long insisted that nobody should write his biography until he was dead.
        Mr. Hamilton nonetheless visited Mr. Salinger's old neighborhoods, spoke with his old friends and found some unpublished letters from the author, many of which Mr. Salinger had donated to university libraries. Those letters, quoted in the original manuscript without authorization, moved Mr. Salinger to sue.
        Upon hearing that the letters were to be used in a biography, Mr. Salinger copyrighted them. But a judge in federal district court in Manhattan, Pierre N. Leval, ruled that Mr. Hamilton's use of the letters was minimal and insubstantial. Calling the book ''a serious, well-researched history of a man who through his own literary accomplishments has become a figure of enormous public interest,'' Judge Leval ruled that it could be distributed.
        But an appeals court reversed the judge's ruling in 1987, questioning whether Mr. Hamilton's use of Mr. Salinger's unpublished letters violated the spirit of the ''fair use'' standard. A year later, the revised Salinger book landed on the desk of Jason Epstein, Mr. Hamilton's editor at Random House. Mr. Hamilton called it a literary adventure story and proclaimed it better than the first.
        ''It has a stronger plot and certainly a more riveting denouement,'' he said, ''and at the same time it raises key questions about the whole business of 'biography' -- what is it for, why do we write it, why do people want to read it and so on. Also, it tells you just as much about Salinger, in fact more, than the earlier, banned version did.''
        Robert Ian Hamilton was born in King's Lynn in Norfolk, England, on March 24, 1938. His father, an engineer specializing in sewage systems, died when he was young. Barred from soccer, his passion, because of a heart murmur, he turned to poetry.
        While still in elementary school in Darlington, England, he edited an alternative magazine intended to compete with the official school publication and was disciplined. He served in the Royal Air Force before entering Keble College at Oxford University, where he founded a literary magazine called Tomorrow.
        After graduation in 1962, he and his friend John Fuller began another literary magazine, The Review. Its purpose was to ''rap dunces and hound charlatans.'' It championed a terse, imagist minimalism and attracted like-minded young poets like David Harsent, Hugo Williams, Colin Falck and Michael Fried.
        The Review folded in 1972, but two years later Mr. Hamilton began The New Review with support from the Arts Council of Britain. The first issue contained 10 poems by Lowell, a friend of Mr. Hamilton's, as well as a gossip column.
        Writers included Martin Amis, Jim Crace, Ian McEwan and the current poet laureate of Britain, Andrew Motion. Editorial meetings were often conducted at the pub next door, the Pillars of Hercules.
        It was there, in Soho's legendary seaminess, that Mr. Hamilton honed his well-lubricated, sardonic humor. One of his famous lines came after a young poet declined an alcoholic drink on the grounds that it tasted bad and made him feel bad.
        ''Well, none of us likes it,'' Mr. Hamilton said.
        He seldom published his own poems, but when he did, they were generally well received. ''Each individual poem is pruned back to an austere and beautiful knot of pain,'' Michael Hoffmann wrote in the London Review of Books in his review of Mr. Hamilton's ''Fifty Poems'' (Faber & Faber, 1988).
        His poem ''Awakening,'' from his book ''The Visit: Poems'' (Faber & Faber, 1970), suggests his verbal economy:
        Your head, so sick, is leaning against mine,
        So sensible. You can't remember
        Why you're here, nor do you recognize
        These helping hands.
        My love,
        The world encircles us. We're losing ground.
        The New Review, which ended its six-year run in 1979, was Mr. Hamilton's last full-time job. He was host of a literary program on television and wrote biographies, first of Lowell, then of Mr. Salinger. His next book was on screenwriters, ''Writers in Hollywood, 1915-1951'' (Harper & Row, 1990).
        He then examined how widows and other survivors sometimes deliberately distort biographies in ''Keepers of the Flame: Literary Estates and the Rise of Biography'' (Faber & Faber, 1994).
        He edited many books, including ''The Oxford Companion to 20th-Century Poetry in English'' (Oxford, 1994). He also returned to his youthful love, soccer. He wrote two books about Paul Gascoigne, the English midfielder who played in Italy: ''Gazza Agonistes'' (Granta, 1993) and ''Gazza Italia'' (Granta, 1994).
        Mr. Hamilton is survived by three sons from two marriages that ended in divorce, and a son and a daughter he had with his companion, Patricia Wheatley, who also survives.
        Always a prolific critic, he cultivated a reputation for incisive, often savage reviews. He once reviewed a young poet's first collection three times -- once under his own name, once under a pseudonym, once anonymously -- each time negatively.
        Correction:  January 11, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the British poet Ian Hamilton on Monday referred incorrectly to his survivors. They are his widow, the novelist Ahdaf Soueif, and their two sons; a son from his first marriage; and a son and a daughter he had with his companion, Patricia Wheatley. Mr. Hamilton's second marriage did not end in divorce.
      