
        Terry Ehrich, for 33 years the publisher and editor in chief of Hemmings Motor News, the monthly magazine that calls itself ''the bible of the old-car hobby,'' died on Thursday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 60.
        Mr. Ehrich had been ill with lung cancer, which was diagnosed last May, and on Jan. 3, he had a heart attack, a company spokeswoman said.
        Because of Mr. Ehrich's illness, he and the other owners of Hemmings, which is published in Bennington, Vt., put the magazine and its related businesses up for sale last fall. They would not discuss income, sales or an asking price, but Dun & Bradstreet puts the company's annual sales at $22 million.
        For the 240,000 old-car hobbyists who subscribe to Hemmings, it is a wish book, parts source and market barometer. Each month, Hemmings publishes 650 to 750 pages, almost all of them filled with advertisements -- more than 20,000 an issue -- for old cars and the parts and services to keep them running.
        The magazine looks like a medium-sized city's phone book, with similar tissue-thin pages and brown kraft paper covers printed in Hemmings's patented shade of dark green.
        Ken Gross, an automotive writer for 30 years, said of Hemmings and Mr. Ehrich: ''It never got slick, and Terry never got slick, either.''
        Mr. Gross, who came up with the idea for the Hemmings Collector Car Almanac, now in its 15th edition, summed up the magazine's importance to the old-car hobby this way: ''Essential is the first word that comes to mind. For a long time Hemmings was the glue of it all. You couldn't go to every flea market in the country, but if you had an intake manifold in California, and a guy in New England wanted it, Hemmings would put the two of them together. Hemmings is the flea market that comes to your house every month.''
        Hemmings is not the only old-car publication, but its circulation outstrips that of its competitors. Cars & Parts has a monthly circulation of about 120,000, and Old Cars Weekly, 70,000.
        Each month, Hemmings begins with a short section of color ads, followed by listings of old-car auctions and shows and ads for services that hobbyists would find useful, whether it is rebuilding a carburetor or replating a chrome bumper.
        But it is probably the ads for specific makes that most hobbyists look at first -- page after page of them, arranged alphabetically (Abarth to Zimmer) and then by year -- if only to gauge the market for a car they already own or to determine the price of one they covet.
        Hemmings began in 1954 in Quincy, Ill., when Ernest R. Hemmings started mailing out a four-page mimeographed list of Model T and Model A Ford parts for sale. Fourteen years later, Mr. Hemmings decided to sell out, and Mr. Ehrich's father-in-law at the time, Bayard Ewing, and his neighbor George H. Waterman Jr., decided to buy the publication. Mr. Ewing brought in Mr. Ehrich, who had graduated from Harvard and had worked as the advertising manager for The New York Review of Books for four years. After a brief apprenticeship in Quincy, in 1970 Mr. Ehrich moved the magazine to Bennington, near his hometown of Arlington, Vt.
        Since then the operation has grown to 140 employees, and Hemmings now publishes three related magazines, car calendars and books. In recent years it has set up a Web site and branched into television.
        Hemmings has its own collection of old cars, from icons like a Mustang convertible to rarities like a 1934 teardrop-shaped McQuay-Norris, one of two survivors.
        Mr. Ehrich, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by his companion, Jackie Christie, of Bennington; daughters, Gillian Ehrich of Nederland, Colo., and Shannon Clay Ehrich of Cape Elizabeth, Maine; grandson, Cameron Sloan, of Cape Elizabeth; father, Manfred W. Ehrich Jr. of Bennington; sister, Jessie Lea Abbott of San Francisco; brothers, Perez Ehrich of Arlington, Vt., the vice president for business operations at Hemmings, and Andy Livingston of Ogunquit, Maine; and stepbrother, Ray Granger of Bennington.
        Mr. Gross, the automotive writer, noted that Mr. Ehrich's interests extended beyond old cars, to environmental and civic causes. He drove a Honda Insight, a ''green'' gas-and-electric hybrid, and was a trustee of the Vermont Law School, known for its program in environmental law. A recent cause was the First Day Foundation, which he started in 1997  to encourage schools to involve parents in their children's education and to encourage employers to give parents time off to accompany their children to school on opening day.
        Correction:  January 22, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Terry Ehrich, publisher and editor in chief of Hemmings Motor News, misstated the date of his death. It was Jan. 10, not last Thursday.
      