
        Dr. Bertram D. Cohn, a pioneering pediatric surgeon and the inventor of an early filter used to prevent pulmonary embolism, a common and often fatal condition, died on July 12 in Greenport, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son Jonathan.
        Dr. Cohn, a resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., invented his filtering device in the 1960's, when preventing embolisms required abdominal surgery. An embolism occurs when a blood clot becomes lodged in one of the lung's vessels.
        Dr. Cohn's invention, a filter that is inserted into the large vein that returns blood to the heart from the abdomen, made it possible to control the blood clot through a procedure that requires only local anesthesia.
        ''The Cohn vena cava filter was a highly innovative piece of thinking well before its time,'' said Dr. John Neoptolemos, chairman of the department of surgery at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital in England. ''It was a real piece of genius in terms of the minimally invasive approach -- a concept that only really caught on in the late 1980's.''
        Several devices using a similar approach to Dr. Cohn's were developed independently in the late 1960's. One of them, the Greenfield filter, gained rapid acceptance and continues to be widely used today to treat pulmonary embolism.
        In the late 50's, Dr. Cohn was one of only a few pediatric surgeons in the country, when only a handful of hospitals offered pediatric surgery training. Though his specialty was in demand at large university hospitals, he went instead to Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, where he established one of the nation's first community hospital-based pediatric surgery units.
        Born in Brooklyn, Bertram Douglas Cohn received his undergraduate and medical degrees from New York University and served in the Air Force during the Korean War.
        In addition to his son Jonathan, of Chapel Hill, N.C., Dr. Bertram is survived by his wife, Rita Brettschneider Cohn; another son, Mark, of Washington; two daughters, Jeanne Cohn Connor, of Washington, and Susan Cohn, of Glastonbury, Conn.; two brothers, David, of West Point, and Alan, of Hermosa Beach, Calif.; his former wife, Arline Cohn, of New York; two stepchildren, Joe Brettschneider, of Huntington, N.Y., and Jane Brettschneider, of Baltimore; and seven grandchildren.
      