
        Dr. George E. Lindsay, who as director of the California Academy of Sciences helped turn its Natural History Museum into a major institution, died on July 16 at his home in Tiburon, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 85.
        Dr. Lindsay was the director of the academy, in San Francisco, from 1963 to 1982. He strengthened its research collections, expanded its campus and oversaw construction of its Meyer Fish Roundabout, an enormous circular viewing tank holding 100,000 gallons of water and thousands of ocean fish.
        In 1976, he re-established the academy's anthropology department, which had languished after many of its collections perished in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and fire.
        Today the academy's natural history museum, home to collections of 17 million species of animals and plants, is one of the 10 largest in the world.
        ''He was one of a few museum directors who were able to get National Science Foundation funding, which was a big deal,'' said Dr. Bill Eschmeyer, who was director of research at the academy under Dr. Lindsay. ''He doubled the staff in 18 years, hired most of the curators that are here today and was extremely good at fund-raising. He even continued to offer advice to the existing museum director right to the end.''
        George Edmund Lindsay was born in Pomona, Calif., and earned his undergraduate and doctoral degrees at Stanford.
        Trained as a botanist, he started the desert botanical gardens between Phoenix and Tempe, now a major tourist attraction. In the 1950's, he organized a series of explorations of the islands off Baja California, helping to lay the groundwork for a nature preserve there. From 1956 to 1963, he was director of the San Diego Natural History Museum.
        His wife, the former Geraldine Kendrick Morris, helped start the docent program at the California Academy of Sciences. She died in 1983.
        Dr. Lindsay's survivors include five stepchildren: Charles Morris of Tiburon; Austin Morris of Novato, Calif.; Geraldine Morris of Alameda, Calif.; Diana Morris of San Francisco; and Jane-Leslie Morris-Williams of Oakland, Calif.
      