
        Kenny Gardner, the light-voiced, cheerfully smooth tenor who for almost 30 years was the featured crooner with Guy Lombardo and His Royal Canadians, died on Friday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Plandome, N.Y.
        The cause of death was a heart attack soon after having an appendectomy, said his niece, Gina Lombardo Cudahy.
        Among the songs in which Mr. Gardner took center stage was the 1950 hit ''Enjoy Yourself, It's Later Than You Think.'' When he got to the line ''when you kiss a dollar bill, it doesn't kiss you back,'' he rolled his eyes and flashed a toothy smile.
        In another signature moment, in the ballad ''Frankie and Johnny,'' Mr. Gardner put both hands over his heart when he belted out, '' 'Cause there's eight men to go to the graveyard but only seven are a-coming back.''
        ''She got her man, 'cause she was doing him wrong,'' he would add with a wink. If it all sounds stylized, it was. The Lombardo group was known for finding the right formula and doing it the same way every time, from the vocals to the exaggerated vibrato of the saxophones to the clipped phrases of the brass.
        ''We had a rule,'' Mr. Gardner said in a 1994 video tribute to Guy Lombardo, who died in 1977. ''If that's how we rehearsed it, that's how we played it. If the public accepted it, you did it the same way every time.''
        It was a formula for success. The band, which originated in London, Ontario, became one of the most popular orchestras in the history of American dance music. With Mr. Lombardo as the leader, the band, at various times, included four of his siblings, and Mr. Gardner was married to Mr. Lombardo's sister, Elaine.
        For more than 50 years, millions in hotels and ballrooms danced cheek to cheek to the Lombardo sound, usually in a bright and regular two-step rhythm. More than 100 million Lombardo recordings were sold. Its New Year's Eve broadcasts, first on radio and later on television, and always from some luxurious hotel, made the group a national institution. Its theme song was ''Auld Lang Syne.''
        Kenneth A. Gardner was born on March 20, 1913, in Lakeview, Iowa. He won a scholarship to go west to college, but instead ended up singing for radio shows in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Gardner joined the Lombardo band -- and the family -- through Elaine Lombardo, who in 1940 heard him on the radio. She insisted that Guy listen. ''Guy heard half the song and said, 'He's for me,' '' Elaine recalled. Mr. Gardner was hired and soon after, he and Elaine were married. He left the band to serve in the military. He saw action in the European Theater, was wounded and received the Purple Heart before returning to the United States and rejoining the band.
        Mr. Gardner retired from the band in 1978, soon after Mr. Lombardo died. The band still plays on under the direction of Al Pierson.
        Mr. Gardner's niece, Ms. Cudahy, said that because he was too busy for civic ventures while traveling with the band, he devoted himself to them in his retirement. He became active in the volunteer Plandome Fire Department and served a term as a trustee of the Village of Plandome.
        Mr. Gardner's wife died in 1999. He left no immediate survivors.
        Mr. Gardner was not a trained musician. He claimed he did not even know how to read music. At one point after joining the band, he quietly began to get some formal music instruction. On the 1994 tribute video, he recalled Guy's reaction:
        ''Guy came up to me one night and he just laid it on the line. He said, 'Are you taking music lessons?' I said, 'Yeah, I'm taking music lessons.' He looked at me cold turkey and said: 'Stop. You're changing the style of the band.' And that was it. I stopped. I got the message: You play it by ear.''
      