
        Roy Kral, whose cool interpretations of classic pop songs in the language of jazz were the trademark of one of jazz's most famous duos, Jackie and Roy, died Friday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 80.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Jackie Cain, his wife and collaborator for more than half a century.
        Mr. Kral was best known for finding intriguing and unexpected songs in different genres and performing them with Ms. Cain in a sophisticated bebop style filled with scat riffs, known as vocalese.
        Their voices had similar ranges but were an octave apart, creating unusual harmonies. They recorded nearly 40 albums in 56 years of singing together, producing hits like ''Spring Can Really Hang You Up the Most,'' ''You Inspire Me'' and ''It's a Lovely Day Today.''
        He and Ms. Cain became Jackie and Roy, performing a blend of pop, jazz and Latin music, all inflected with a jazz sensibility that led Billie Holiday to exclaim upon hearing them in 1950, ''Bop like this is here to stay!''
        ''They were one of the most important vocal groups in jazz,'' said James Gavin, a jazz historian. ''They came along in the bebop era and found a way to combine bebop singing with cabaret. It was very polished, hip cabaret, but it was jazz singing at the same time.''
        As a pianist and singer for Charlie Ventura's band, Bop for the People, in 1948, Mr. Kral reluctantly agreed to write a new arrangement of the 1919 pop song ''I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles,'' at the urging of the group's manager, Don Palmer. Mr. Kral added a bebop sensibility and scat singing to what had been a rather insipid pop standard, transforming it into a cool, jazzy tune. It was their first hit.
        ''Roy really resisted doing the song, but he made it into something very special,'' Ms. Cain said.
        Mr. Kral was born in Cicero, Ill., on Oct. 10, 1921, the son of Joseph S. Kral, a local politician, and his wife, Georgiana. Urged on by his mother, he took classical piano lessons as a young boy but abandoned them to teach himself to play jazz piano by mimicking what he heard while listening to the radio under his blanket after bedtime.
        After serving in the Army during World War II as an arranger for the Army band, Mr. Kral moved to Chicago, where he joined a band called the George Davis Quartet, Ms. Cain said.
        He met Ms. Cain in 1947, when she was a striking 18-year-old blonde just out of Pulaski High School in Milwaukee who dreamed of being a jazz singer. A mutual friend who invited Ms. Cain to sing with the band introduced them. It was not love at first sight.
        ''Roy didn't really want me to sing, but our friend kind of coerced him,'' Ms. Cain said.
        Once he heard her sing, he changed his tune, she said. They were married in 1949.
        Though he had been in declining health for several years, Mr. Kral continued to perform. Jackie and Roy sang at the Kaye Playhouse in June in a concert saluting the singer Teddi King, Mr. Gavin said.
        Mr. Kral is survived by his wife and three daughters, Dana Kral of Montclair, N.J.; Carol May of Elgin, Ill.; and Tiffany Bolling-Casares of Los Angeles.
      