
        Duncan Noble, a dance teacher at the North Carolina School of the Arts and a former member of Ballet Theater, the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and Valerie Bettis's modern dance group, died on Monday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Winston-Salem.
        Mr. Noble was highly regarded throughout the American dance world as a painstaking teacher whose men's classes and classes in partnering were especially well known.
        Born Duncan McGillvary in Vancouver, British Columbia, he adopted his mother's maiden name for the theater. He studied dance in Vancouver and New York, danced with Ballet Theater (as American Ballet Theater was then known) from 1941 to 1942, and in several Broadway musicals, including ''Something for the Boys'' (1943), ''One Touch of Venus'' (1943) and ''On the Town'' (1944).
        He became Bettis's partner in several of her productions, including ''As I Lay Dying,'' her 1948 choreographic adaptation of the Faulkner novel. It was comparatively rare at that time for performers to be equally accomplished in both ballet and modern dance.
        Mr. Noble danced with the Ballet Russe from 1949 to 1951, appeared on Broadway in ''Paint Your Wagon'' (1951), and choreographed and directed for several theater groups, including the Pittsburgh Playhouse and the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey.
        He joined the faculty of the North Carolina School of the Arts at its founding in 1965, at first teaching both ballet and modern dance. But ballet was his great love, and he eventually taught only ballet classes. He insisted that his students know more about ballet than technique and constantly spoke to them about dance history and traditions. Yet his tastes remained eclectic and in 1982 he directed students from the North Carolina school in ''Jazz Is,'' a touring production that traced the history of jazz.
        Although Mr. Noble officially retired from the school in 1993, he continued teaching part time there until shortly before his death. He also adjudicated regional dance festivals and was an on-site visitor for the National Endowment for the Arts, observing and appraising various dance groups.
        Mr. Noble was a guest teacher for Netherlands Dance Theater, the Basel Ballet, the Hungarian State Ballet of Budapest, the Alberta Ballet and other groups.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      