
        Dr. John T. Edsall, a Harvard biochemist known for his pioneering study of proteins, died on June 12 in Boston. He was 99 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        In the early 1940's, Dr. Edsall and Dr. Edwin Cohn wrote ''Proteins, Amino Acids and Peptides,'' which helped revolutionize the understanding of protein molecules.
        ''Before their book, proteins were called colloids, which implied that they were fluffy and amorphous,'' said Dr. Alexander Rich, a professor of biophysics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''But he and Cohn helped transform the view of proteins and showed that they are actually structured molecules.''
        Dr. Edsall and Dr. Cohn also helped explain that amino acids are molecules with both positive and negative charges that can simultaneously act as acids and bases, known as zwitterions. A decade later, Dr. Edsall and a colleague wrote ''Biophysical Chemistry'' (1958), the first textbook on the subject.
        During World War II, Dr. Edsall worked on a team of researchers at Harvard that discovered a way to extend the shelf life of plasma, the fluid component of blood that carries blood cells.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Edsall learned that Dr. Linus Pauling, a Nobel laureate and friend, was about to have his research grants revoked by the United States Public Health Service because he and other biological scientists had publicly protested open-air nuclear testing.
        Dr. Edsall said he would not accept the grant money he was to receive if Dr. Pauling was punished. Others joined his protest, and the government backed down.
        When the Concorde was introduced in the late 1960's, Dr. Edsall spearheaded a group of scientists' opposition to cross-country supersonic flights. Fearing that sonic booms would disrupt the nation's quality of life, he helped push Congress to limit supersonic flights from Europe to New York and Washington.
        John Edsall, born in Philadelphia in 1902, received his bachelor's and medical degrees from Harvard.
        He was Harvard's head tutor in biochemical sciences for more than 25 years. He was the editor of The Journal of Biological Chemistry in the 60's and was president of the American Society of Biological Chemists in the late 50's.
        His wife, Margaret Dunham Edsall, died in 1987.
        He is survived by two sons, David, of Amherst, Mass., and Nicholas, of Charlottesville, Va.
      