
        Harold Samuels, an art dealer and self-taught scholar of American art, died on Sunday in Falmouth, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Falmouth.
        With his wife, Peggy, Mr. Samuels wrote or edited 10 books on art and history, including a well-received biography of the painter Frederic Remington and an encyclopedia of Western artists. They also wrote two books about the Spanish-American War and edited a volume of Remington's writings.
        Though Mr. Samuels and his wife had no formal training as art historians, they were tenacious researchers, and their books continue to be cited as authoritative texts.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Michael Kammen, a professor at Cornell, called ''Frederic Remington: A Biography'' (Doubleday, 1982) ''far more thorough and judicious'' than previous biographies.
        ''One of the central themes of this book is that Remington was a less glamorous and less attractive figure than his image makers presented,'' the review continued, ''albeit more interesting, more complex and more human.''
        Mr. Samuels, who had a law degree from Harvard, worked in business through his 50's, until he and his wife decided to sell their company -- American Leisure Products, or Alpco, which produced decorative chess sets and puzzles -- to devote themselves to their interest in art. They frequented auctions and estate sales and began dealing in American art, particularly by Remington and other Western artists.
        Their first book, ''The Illustrated Biographical Encyclopedia of Artists of the American West,'' a compilation of all they had learned about Western artists, was published in 1976, the year after they sold their company. ''Collected Writings of Frederic Remington'' followed in 1979.
        The couple's later books include ''Remembering the Maine,'' which appeared in 1995 and ''Teddy Roosevelt at San Juan: The Making of a President,'' published in 1997.
        Mr. Samuels was born in Brooklyn on July 9, 1917, and graduated from Ohio University before heading to Harvard Law School. He worked for the Doehler-Jarvis Company in Brooklyn and in various locations in the Midwest before forming American Leisure Products.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children: Amy, of Falmouth; Peter, of New York City; Matthew, of Searsmont, Me.; and Joan, of Stefa, Switzerland; and nine grandchildren.
      