
        Norman J. Rosen, a lawyer who was the top deputy to district attorneys in both Brooklyn and Queens, died Saturday morning at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn.
        After he fell ill on Friday, doctors recognized the early symptoms of leukemia, Carla Phelps, his sister, said.
        Norman Jay Rosen was born on March 17, 1929, in East New York, Brooklyn. His father was a garment worker.
        When he was 10, he began working at jobs, like selling newspapers and delivering groceries, to help the family finances.
        He graduated from Brooklyn College with an education major. He then taught social studies at Edward B. Shallow Middle School. After being drafted and serving in the Marines, he returned to the same school. He studied law in the evenings and earned a law degree from Brooklyn Law School.
        After opening a private law practice, he was hired as an assistant by Eugene Gold, the Brooklyn district attorney. By the mid-1970's, he had become Mr. Gold's executive assistant, running the day-to-day operations of the office.
        He established new programs to aid crime witnesses and victims, introduced nighttime felony trials, and helped set up a second-chance program for drug users. When Mr. Gold decided to retire in 1981, he ran to replace him, using the slogan ''Good as Gold.''
        He ran against Elizabeth Holtzman, who had just lost a race for the United States Senate and was far better known. In his campaign, he pointed to his support for the death penalty and her opposition to it and called her a carpetbagger.
        ''Isn't this the American way -- where people start at the bottom and work to the top?'' he asked in an interview with The New York Times in August 1981. ''It is contrary to tradition to come through the back door.''
        Despite the backing of Mayor Edward I. Koch and the Brooklyn Democratic organization, Mr. Rosen narrowly lost to Ms. Holtzman.
        He accepted an offer from John J. Santucci, the Queens district attorney, to be his executive assistant, the same role he had played in Brooklyn. He left that job in 1986 to join the law firm of Farber, Rosen and Kaufman in Rego Park, Queens, where he practiced civil and criminal law.
        In 1989, he again ran for Brooklyn district attorney, waging a spirited primary campaign against Charles J. Hynes.
        Mr. Hynes, who had just won convictions as special state prosecutor in the 1986 Howard Beach racial attack case, won overwhelmingly. Mr. Rosen finished third behind Daniel L. Feldman. He returned to private practice, and worked until Friday, when he went to the hospital.
        In addition to his sister, who lives in Merrick, N.Y., he is survived by his wife, Terry, and his sons, Robert and Richard, both of Brooklyn.
      