
        Woodrow Wilson Mann, who as mayor of Little Rock in 1957 asked President Dwight D. Eisenhower to send federal troops to prevent a mob from keeping black students out of a high school, died on Tuesday in Houston. He was 85.
        His son, Woodrow Wilson Mann Jr., said his father had lived in Houston since 1960. He said his father, an insurance broker who remained in business while he was mayor, found that he had no political or business future in Arkansas after upholding the court-ordered integration of Central High School in 1957.
        Mr. Mann never supported classroom integration, he wrote in one of a series of articles about the Little Rock events in The New York Herald Tribune in 1958. But he said he felt bound to uphold the law as laid down in the Supreme Court's 1954 ruling against public school segregation.
        He said the crisis was caused by the political pandering of Gov. Orval E. Faubus and a small band of organized agitators.
        ''Left to ourselves we could easily have complied with the law,'' he wrote, saying that the police could have handled the demonstrators who confronted the nine black students trying to enter the high school.
        But Governor Faubus called in the National Guard, which prevented the students from entering. Mr. Mann telegraphed the president, asking him for an executive order sending federal troops to Little Rock.
        ''I am pleading to you as president of the United States to provide the necessary troops within several hours,'' he wrote, saying an armed mob was growing by the minute. President Eisenhower sent the troops, a court ordered the guard to leave and the governor obeyed the order.
        Mr. Mann ''did what needed to be done and stood up,'' said Roy Reed, a reporter with The Arkansas Gazette at the time and the author of ''Faubus: The Life and Times of an American Prodigal'' (University of Arkansas Press, 1997). ''It almost certainly cost him any future that he had in politics in Arkansas.''
        Mr. Mann was born in Little Rock on Nov. 13, 1916, and learned the city block by block as he delivered ice for his father's business.
        He played baseball in the Midget League, which was all white, but his team often practiced with black ones. He wrote in The Tribune that in his youth it was ''suicide'' for politicians not to be members of the Ku Klux Klan, but that to him the Klan was ''a scary, menacing thing.''
        He graduated from the University of Illinois and was a naval officer on the staff of Adm. Chester W. Nimitz in the Pacific in World War II. He returned to Little Rock after the war to start his insurance business.
        In 1955, Mr. Mann ran for mayor as a Democrat. Within six months of taking office on Jan. 1, 1956, he had installed a new city bus system, condemned the city purchasing system and appointed numerous investigative committees.
        He conferred with black groups and ''discovered that their demands were minor,'' he wrote. One was to end the rule, laid out on a sign, that whites were allowed to drink directly from the City Hall water fountain, but blacks had to use cups. ''I had the sign removed and put cups up for everybody,'' he wrote.
        Mr. Mann doubled the number of blacks on the 150-man police force -- to 4 from 2 -- and discussed integrating the Fire Department, but the fire chief said whites would not sleep in the same room as blacks.
        In November 1956, Little Rock voters approved a change to a city manager form of government, leaving Mr. Mann a lame duck. That made him ''kind of a caretaker mayor,'' Mr. Reed said. ''He felt rejected, and rightly so.''
        Mr. Mann wrote that he was amazed when Governor Faubus appeared on television on Labor Day 1957 to say he was ordering the National Guard to maintain order at Central High when it opened the next morning.
        Mr. Mann wrote that there was no credible danger, and that the governor was playing to Southern segregationist politicians like Senators Richard Russell of Georgia and Strom Thurmond of South Carolina who were urging ''massive resistance'' to integration.
        Mr. Mann also pointed out that schools in several other Arkansas cities and towns had already been integrated without major incident, and that Governor Faubus had congratulated him on how smoothly buses in Little Rock had been integrated the previous year.
        In the event of trouble, the mayor said, ''the blame rests squarely at the doorstep of the governor's mansion.''
        On Sept. 20, Governor Faubus said he would honor a court order to remove his forces from the high school. On Sept. 23, Daisy Bates, president of the Arkansas chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, led the nine black students into the school.
        But the trouble was not over. At 11:15 a.m., Mr. Mann's son, known as Woody, called from the school. Mr. Mann could not return the call, finding the phone out of order. Worrying for his son's safety, he asked the police to find him and take him to City Hall. Woody arrived 10 minutes later and told his father that rumors had been floating around all morning that the blacks ''will be taken care of'' at noon.
        ''I realized we could not let this happen,'' Mr. Mann wrote. ''Trouble inside and outside the school would be too much.''
        The black students were ushered out a side door at 12:07, having attended three classes. After they were gone, the city attorney told the anti-integration crowd outside that they were no longer in the school. The crowd roared its disbelief. Then one member was allowed into the school to verify that the students were in fact gone. She did, and the crowd dispersed.
        Mr. Mann, who had crosses burned on his lawn, soon moved to Texas. In 1990, he retired from the insurance business.
        In addition to his son, of Houston, Mr. Mann is survived by his brother, Harold, of Knoxville, Tenn; his sisters, Freddie Schroeder of Houston and Catherine Boyd of Little Rock; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His wife of 46 years, Beverly, died in 1984.
      