
        Joseph Laitin, a public affairs officer who served in the government for 18 years under five presidents, died on Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 87.
        Mr. Laitin operated in the quaint belief that journalists, the public and even federal officials might benefit from the disclosure of factual information, without political spin.
        One of Washington's quintessential survivors, Mr. Laitin flourished in administrations of both parties.
        ''It really didn't matter whether it was a Democratic or a Republican administration,'' said his son, Peter R. Laitin. ''He did his job. That's why he survived.''
        Mr. Laitin was acquainted with dozens of members of the press corps, knew how to please them and loved to exchange gossip with them. He was equally comfortable with politicians and the civil servants who run the bureaucratic machinery of government.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Laitin got his first taste of journalism as a high school student, when he wrote an article suggesting that school football players performed poorly on the field because they had been carousing before games.
        Without completing high school, Mr. Laitin went to work for the old Brooklyn Eagle and then for United Press, now United Press International, and Reuters.
        As a Reuters correspondent, he reported on Japan's surrender aboard the battleship Missouri in 1945, the Nuremberg trials of Nazi officials and atomic bomb tests at Bikini Atoll in the Pacific.
        After World War II, Mr. Laitin worked in Hollywood as a freelance writer. He also had a radio show in which he interviewed film stars.
        Mr. Laitin came to Washington in 1963 to work for President John F. Kennedy's budget director, Kermit Gordon.
        Mr. Laitin stayed on under President Lyndon B. Johnson. For 18 months in 1965 and 1966, he was an assistant White House press secretary.
        Mr. Laitin, a Democrat, went back to the Bureau of the Budget in 1966 and assumed that he would be replaced after Richard M. Nixon became president in 1969.
        But Mr. Laitin outlasted several Nixon aides who wanted to oust him.
        In 1974, when Gerald R. Ford was president, Mr. Laitin was named assistant secretary of defense for public affairs. He was recruited for the job by James R. Schlesinger, who was then defense secretary and had known Mr. Laitin at the Budget Bureau, now called the Office of Management and Budget.
        After Mr. Schlesinger was dismissed in late 1975, Mr. Laitin reappeared in a press relations job at the Federal Aviation Administration.
        When Jimmy Carter became president in 1977, Mr. Laitin became assistant secretary of the Treasury for public affairs, under W. Michael Blumenthal, who was then secretary. Mr. Laitin was finally squeezed out of government a few weeks after Ronald Reagan became president in 1981.
        Mr. Laitin's wife of 34 years, Christine, died in 1995. He is survived by his son, Peter, of McLean, Va.; a daughter, Sigrid Laitin of Poolesville, Md.; a stepson, John Laitin of Washington; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Laitin, an inveterate raconteur, relished the process of government but also viewed public affairs as a high calling.
        ''The fate of the world,'' he once said, ''can sometimes hang on the nuances or inflections'' of a spokesman's language.
      