
        Michael Houser, a guitarist and singer for the rock group Widespread Panic, died on Saturday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 40.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the group's publicist, Paula Donner.
        Mr. Houser announced his illness in a statement last month after missing a number of concert dates. He played at the beginning of the group's summer tour, in June, but starting early last month the group replaced him onstage.
        Widespread Panic was a leader among the so-called ''jam bands,'' a loosely connected scene of groups like Phish and String Cheese Incident that followed in the footsteps of the Grateful Dead, playing long, meandering improvisations in concerts that often lasted for hours.
        Like the Grateful Dead, Widespread Panic also toured constantly, drawing big crowds despite meager record sales. None of the group's 10 albums went gold, but it was among the country's most successful touring bands. Last year the group earned $14 million from 83 concerts, according to Billboard.
        Begun by Mr. Houser and friends in Athens in the early 1980's while attending the University of Georgia, Widespread Panic (named after Mr. Houser's nickname, Panic) brought a bluesy, Southern-rock sound to its improvisations, drawing frequent comparisons to the Allman Brothers, who were also from Georgia.
        The group's first album was released in 1988 and its reputation grew steadily before hitting it big on the Horde tours in 1992 and 1993. In 1998 the group drew an estimated 100,000 fans for a homecoming performance in Athens.
        Mr. Houser is survived by his wife, Babbette, and his son, Waker, both of Athens.
        Correction:  August 14, 2002, Wednesday  A picture from The Associated Press yesterday with an obituary of Michael Houser, a guitarist and singer with the rock group Widespread Panic, was mislabeled by the news agency and published in error. It showed another group member, John Bell. The obituary also misstated the given name of Mr. Houser's wife and omitted a surviving daughter. His wife is Barbette, not Babbette, and the daughter is Eva.
      