
        Galen Rowell, a photographer well known for sumptuous color pictures of the remotest corners of the earth, died on Sunday in the crash of a small plane as it approached the airport at Bishop, Calif. He was 61.
        He was returning to Bishop from a trip to the Bering Sea, where he had been conducting a photography workshop.
        His wife, Barbara Cushman Rowell, an esteemed photographer and writer and an accomplished pilot, was also killed, along with the professional pilot, Tom Reid, who was flying the plane, and a third passenger, Carol McAfee, also of Bishop.
        Mr. Rowell, an outstanding landscape photographer, practiced what he termed ''participatory photography,'' seeking to infuse the pictures he took with his own feelings about the scene before him rather than settling for the role of observer with a camera. What drew him to photography, he said, was not a desire to see the world through a camera but an intense devotion to the wilderness, which also lead him to become an avid mountaineer.
        Mr. Rowell made skillful use of natural light to create scenes of striking beauty, often shot through with a deep sense of loneliness. ''Still photographs,'' he once wrote, ''especially those originally matched to a strong vision, are virtually unforgettable.'' Over the last 20 years Mr. Rowell made more than 30 photographic journeys through the mountains of Nepal, India, Tibet, China, Africa, Alaska, Siberia, New Zealand and Patagonia, as well as climbing in the High Sierras of the western United States. He published 16 books of photographs, including his 1986 best seller, ''Mountain Light: In Search of the Dynamic Landscape.''
        Galen Rowell was born on Aug. 23, 1940, in Berkeley, Calif. At 16 he made his first rope climb in the Yosemite Valley. Later he dropped out of the University of California at Berkeley and after first running a motor repair shop for high-performance cars, became a professional photographer in 1972. A year later he was assigned to do the photographs for a cover article on the Yosemite Valley for National Geographic; he eventually worked on more than 10 cover articles for that magazine.
        In 1981 Mr. Rowell met and married Barbara Cushman, who was then public relations director for an outdoor clothing company and had hired him to write about a parka and backpack for her company catalog. That same year he founded his own company, Mountain Light, and in 1983 the couple opened the Mountain Light Gallery at Emeryville, Calif., where he sold his pictures. Last year they moved all their business operations to Bishop.
        Mr. Rowell is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Tony, of Berkeley, Calif., and Nicole Ryan, of Plymouth, Calif. Barbara Rowell is survived by her mother, Lucile Cushman, and her brother, Robert.
      