
        Alex Hannum, a Hall of Fame coach who persuaded Wilt Chamberlain, the greatest offensive threat of his time, to change his game and play defense, and who was the first coach to win championships in both the National and the American Basketball Associations, died last Friday in San Diego. He was 78.
        The Philadelphia 76ers, whom Hannum coached to an N.B.A. title in 1967, reported his death, but did not list the cause.
        Hannum was one of only two coaches -- the other is Phil Jackson -- to lead two different teams to N.B.A. titles.
        Those two N.B.A. championships were part of a larger picture in basketball history, for Hannum was the coach of the only teams that intruded on the remarkable stretch of Boston Celtics titles, 11 in 13 years.
        Hannum's 1957-58 St. Louis Hawks defeated the Celtics in the N.B.A. finals, and then his 1966-67 76ers stormed through the season, eliminated the Celtics in the Eastern Division finals, and won the league championship over the San Francisco Warriors, whom Hannum had coached the previous season.
        ''That was the greatest team in the history of basketball,'' Hannum said last year of that 76ers team. ''I'm talking about all kinds of basketball, including the Dream Teams.''
        Its winning percentage of .840 (68-13) was the highest in N.B.A. history, and included a 46-4 start. The team included Chamberlain, Hal Greer and Billy Cunningham, all members of the Hall of Fame.
        In the strong-willed Chamberlain, the equally strong-willed Hannum had a player who had never failed to average at least 33 points a game. But Chamberlain's teams had never won a title. Hannum told Chamberlain, ''If Bill Russell could play defense, with your height and skills, you can play defense.''
        So in the 1966-67 season, Chamberlain curtailed his shooting and began passing. Although more than 7 feet tall, he finished third in assists in the N.B.A., averaging 7.8 a game, while his scoring average dropped to 24.1 points a game from 33.5.
        Hannum, a native of Los Angeles, played in pro basketball's breakout years after World War II. He was never a full-time performer in a career that began with Oshkosh of the old National Basketball League in 1948, and ended when he was a player-coach on the St. Louis Hawks' 1956-57 team. Although he stood 6 foot 7 and weighed 225 pounds, which gave him a size advantage in those early pro years, he averaged only 15 minutes of playing time and 6 points a game.
        But as a coach, he loomed larger than most, and impressed his will on a variety of teams on which he imparted a variety of styles. He synthesized the Eastern style of give-and-go with a more cerebral offense when that was warranted.
        But his attention to defense, as well as conditioning, helped him post a 471-412 record in the N.B.A. and a 178-152 record in the A.B.A. These marks, and his three championships, led to his election to the Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1998.
        One of Hannum's former players, Pat Riley, the Miami Heat coach, recalled that when Hannum took over the N.B.A.'s San Diego Rockets in 1969, he gave his players a memorable introduction to his methods.
        Riley said that in an early practice, Hannum directed him and the other players to run the San Diego Sports Arena steps, from courtside to balcony. He did not tell them when to stop, though. Hannum then went home. Three hours later, Riley said, the players were still running up and down the arena steps when Hannum called the trainer from home and told the players they could stop.
        Al Bianchi, a former player and the former general manager of the Knicks, once recalled Hannum telling him, ''You don't have to like a coach, but the coach has to communicate with the players and gain their trust.''
        He was very good in his first season of coaching a team. In fact, his three championships were won during his first full season as a coach.
        With the Hawks, a team he had started coaching midway through the 1956-57 season, when he also was a player, he directed stars like Bob Pettit and Cliff Hagan. He was an instant winner with the 76ers in 1966-67 and then, after moving to the Oakland Oaks of the A.B.A. in 1968, he led players like Rick Barry and Larry Brown to a title after a 60-18 regular-season mark. Barry, Pettit and Chamberlain were among 12 players he coached who also made the Hall of Fame.
        With the championship in Oakland, Hannum joined Bill Sharman as the only coaches to lead teams to titles in both the N.B.A. and the A.B.A. Hannum was also named coach of the year in both leagues.
      