
        Russell Barnett Aitken, an artist, expert marksman, big-game hunter and adventure writer whose substantial philanthropy reflected his passions for art and sport, died on Sunday at his home in Newport, R.I. He was 92.
        His wife, Irene, said he suffered from Parkinson's disease for more than 16 years. He also had a home in Manhattan.
        At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where he was an honorary trustee for 10 years, two rooms of armor are named for him. At the Bronx Zoo, the seabird colony built in 1995 to replace an aviary destroyed in a storm is named for him.
        An avid conservationist, he was an early and generous benefactor of the World Wildlife Fund and the National Audubon Society. Mr. Aitken represented a throwback to a time when famous people had time to relax together. In competition in the 1940's, he was best skeet shooter in the nation, and shot socially with Bernard Baruch and Clare Booth Luce. The society columns chronicled his expeditions, like his seven-month safari to Africa in 1947.
        He was born on Jan. 20, 1910, in Cleveland. He almost died from spinal meningitis at 9, and partly to aid his recovery his family bought a farm where he could hunt, fish and trap.
        He graduated from the Cleveland Institute of Art as valedictorian in 1931, and received a journalism degree from Case Western Reserve University the same year. Early in his career, he worked with the ceramist R. Guy Cowan, later setting up his own studios in Cleveland; White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.; and Manhattan. His work was shown at leading Manhattan galleries and at the Neue Galerie in Vienna. A Surrealist sculpture he made in 1935 is in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art. In 1939 he was commissioned to do a mural for the the New York World's Fair.
        In World War II Mr. Aitken served in the Army Air Force, teaching pursuit pilots and gunners to shoot. His uncanny marksmanship played a large part in his life after the war. In 1949 he was ''High Gun,'' meaning he was the best skeet shooter in the United States. He went on to win major contests shooting live pigeons, a more difficult feat. He bagged the biggest water buffalo ever documented.
        He was an associate editor of Field & Stream from 1948 to 1952, and wrote more than 300 articles for it and other sporting publications. He wrote a book, ''Great Game Animals of the World'' (Macmillan, 1969).
        His first wife, Annie Laurie Crawford, died in 1984. Her daughter from a previous marriage, Martha Auersperg von Bülow, is in a coma and is divorced from Claus von Bülow, whose conviction for trying to kill her was reversed on appeal.
        His wife Irene, his only survivor, is also the widow of John A. Roosevelt, youngest son of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Mr. Aitken's sporting interests extended from buying a duck decoy in 1986 for $319,000, then a record, to building an elegant croquet court at Champ Soleil, his Versailles-style chateau in Newport.
      