
        Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, a Long Island rabbi prominent in the Conservative movement who in a notable speech in 1987 confronted the pope on the issues of anti-Semitism, the Holocaust and Israel, died on Saturday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y.
        He was 85.
        Rabbi Waxman, speaking on behalf of all organized American Jewry, gave the speech in September 1987 from the stage of an auditorium in Miami, with Pope John Paul II looking on. It came during the first stop of a papal visit to the United States. Rabbi Waxman spoke evenly and with respect, but pulled no punches.
        ''Greater attention needs to be paid to the Christian roots of anti-Semitism,'' Rabbi Waxman told the pope. He also called for the Vatican to open full diplomatic relations with Israel, something that came to pass in 1993, and he spoke about the ''pain and anger'' among many Jews over the pope's decision to meet with Kurt Waldheim, who was then president of Austria.
        The speech came at a time of considerable Catholic-Jewish tension, which boiled over as a result of the Waldheim audience on June 25, 1987. Mr. Waldheim served during World War II in German Army units that were implicated in the deportation of Jews in Greece and reprisals against partisans in Yugoslavia.
        The pope responded with a speech that began, ''my dear Jewish brothers and sisters.'' He spoke of the ''common heritage'' of Catholics and Jews, and condemned the crimes of the Holocaust, which he called the Shoah, using the Hebrew term. Without addressing the Waldheim controversy directly, he acknowledged tensions with the Jewish community and committed the Vatican to working to resolve them.
        At the time of the speech, Rabbi Waxman was chairman of the International Jewish Committee on Interreligious Consultations.
        Rabbi Waxman was generally regarded as a leader in working for better interfaith relations. In response to Rabbi Waxman's death, Cardinal William H. Keeler of Baltimore, the liaison between American Roman Catholic bishops and the organized Jewish community, called him ''a major force in the improvement of relations between the Jewish people and the Catholic Church worldwide.''
        He noted that Pope John Paul recognized Rabbi Waxman's contribution in 1998 by naming him a knight commander of St. Gregory the Great. He was the first rabbi and the fifth Jew to receive the honor.
        Mordecai Waxman was born on Feb. 25, 1917, in Albany, where his father held a pulpit. He received his bachelor's degree at the University of Chicago and was ordained at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York. After briefly serving congregations in Niagara Falls, N.Y., and Chicago, he became rabbi of Temple Israel of Great Neck, where he served from 1947 until his death. He was scheduled to retire on Sept. 1.
        Rabbi Waxman was an Army chaplain during World War II, serving in Fort Dix, N.J. He was the author of ''Tradition and Change: The Development of Conservative Judaism'' (Burning Bush Press, 1958) and was editor of the journal Conservative Judaism from 1969 to 1974.
        Rabbi Waxman's wife, Ruth, died in 1996. He is survived by three sons, Rabbi Jonathan of Elberon, N.J., and David and Hillel, both of Great Neck; a sister, Naomi Perlman of Pittsburgh; and five grandchildren.
      