
        Larry Rivers, the irreverent proto-Pop painter and sculptor, jazz saxophonist, writer, poet, teacher and sometime actor and filmmaker, whose partly self-mocking bad-boy persona encapsulated the spirit of a restless era that shook up American art, died on Wednesday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer of the liver, which was diagnosed this spring, his family said.
        Insecure, an avid reader and lover of poetry and a publicity hound, Mr. Rivers in his glory days was given to cowboy boots, tight pants, inside-out shirts, far-out ties (sometimes two at a time) and a black Cadillac and motorcycle.
        He helped change the course of American art in the 1950's and 60's, but his virtues as an artist always seemed inextricably bound up with his vices, the combination producing work that could be by turns exhilarating and appalling. Naturally, it provoked extreme reactions. Jackson Pollock, Mr. Rivers recalled with a certain bitter glee, ''once tried to run down one of my sculptures that was standing in a friend's driveway in East Hampton.''
        Mr. Rivers had an omnivorous curiosity about life, sex, drugs, politics, history and culture. ''He would stab out at different things, like Picasso, except that more of Picasso's things worked out,'' said David Levy, the director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art and a longtime friend who played with Mr. Rivers in the East 13th Street Band. ''Larry had a realistic sense of who he was, so he didn't get caught up in his ego when things failed. At the same time, he was probing. He was a very serious man, an intellectual, always reading.''
        Mr. Rivers had a sometimes self-destructive penchant for gossip, scandal and outlandishness. ''If I have inherited bad taste,'' he once said, ''it is at least compounded with an obnoxious sense of who I am.''
        For a while, he was everywhere. He frequented the Cedar bar with Willem de Kooning. He designed sets for Frank O'Hara's ''Try! Try!'' and for ''The Slave and the Toilet,'' by Amiri Baraka. His sets and costumes for a New York Philharmonic performance of Stravinsky's ''Oedipus Rex,'' conducted by Lukas Foss, outraged music critics.
        Mr. Rivers appeared with Jack Kerouac and Allen Ginsberg in Robert Frank and Alfred Leslie's offbeat film ''Pull My Daisy,'' and played President Lyndon B. Johnson onstage in Kenneth Koch's ''Election.'' With Pierre-Dominique Gaisseau, he spent six months making a television travelogue about Africa before being arrested as a suspected mercenary in Lagos, Nigeria, and nearly being executed.
        Broadcast in 1968 on NBC's ''Experiments in Television,'' the show was summed up by Barbara Delatiner in Newsday as ''something like a Rivers canvas: complex, brilliantly colorful and maybe too tongue-in-cheek for serious consideration.''
        In 1958 Mr. Rivers even won $32,000 as an art expert on ''The $64,000 Challenge'' quiz show. He subsequently said he had been slipped an envelope beforehand with the questions in it but proudly declined to look at it.
        In his last decades, commercially successful and churning out huge multimedia works, bloated pastiches of himself and other artists, he fell hard from grace. But at the height of his fame in the mid-1960's, John Canaday, the chief art critic of The New York Times, called him ''the cleverest, even the foxiest, painter at work in the country,'' an artist who ''can do anything he wants with a brush.''
        A Start in Jazz
        That ability was amazing, since Mr. Rivers had come to art almost by accident. As a young saxophonist in a band playing the resort circuit in Maine in 1945, he was shown a book about modern art one day by the band's pianist, Jack Freilicher.
        ''I wanted to say, 'What's Cubism?' '' Mr. Rivers recalled in ''What Did I Do? The Unauthorized Autobiography,'' which he wrote with Arnold Weinstein (HarperCollins, 1992). ''But suddenly I knew what Cubism was. Cubism told a young man from the Bronx he didn't know very much. Cubism didn't know about him or his nights walking all over Greenwich Village with his big horn slung over his shoulder, looking for a joint where he could sit and blow with a lot of other desperados. Cubism certainly didn't smoke pot or get high, Cubism was history in which he played no part. Where could I catch up?''
        Jane Freilicher, a painter, was Freilicher's wife. She handed Mr. Rivers a brush. He turned out to have a natural gift. ''After a week or two I began thinking that art was an activity on a 'higher level' than jazz,'' he said.
        Through Ms. Freilicher, he met Nell Blaine, who was working in a semi-abstract style. She suggested he enroll in Hans Hofmann's class, which Mr. Rivers did on the G.I. Bill. He played the saxophone at night and drew eight hours a day, absorbing Hofmann's theories about color and form but rebelling against his stress on pure abstraction, which was becoming the dominant mode of American art at a time when Pollock and Mark Rothko were emerging as major figures on the scene.
        Drawing female nudes in Hofmann's studio in 1947, Mr. Rivers recalled, he ended up with three peculiar rectangles.
        ''You were not supposed to make notice of the fact that you were staring at a vagina,'' he said. ''The art mood of the times dictated that we not recognize a personal sexual reaction as important.'' By the end of the year, he said, he ''became frantic to draw the figure.''
        A Bonnard show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1948 pointed a way forward. Mr. Rivers saw that painting figures was not a dead occupation. He began exhibiting the next year.
        Clement Greenberg, the powerful critic, called him ''an amazing beginner,'' a ''better composer of pictures than was Bonnard himself in many instances.'' (Greenberg later changed his mind. Mr. Rivers ''stinks,'' he decided.)
        Manipulating the Masters
        Mr. Rivers then went to Europe, living for a few months in Paris, where he studied old masters, Courbet and Manet. After he returned, he painted ''Washington Crossing the Delaware'' (1953), a deadpan parody of the salon classic by Emanuel Leutze. He said he was stimulated by Tolstoy's retelling of a national epic in ''War and Peace.'' ''I wanted to take something corny and bring it back to life,'' he said.
        The picture reintroduced to American painting a comic tone that the Abstract Expressionists conspicuously lacked. They were not amused. But the work, audacious and clever, the pigments dilute, the space diaphanous and indeterminate, in an ambiguous style that subtly honored past art and Modernism while poking fun at both, was bought by the Modern and helped pave the way for Pop artists, and their irony, at the end of the 1950's.
        Mr. Rivers was never strictly a Pop painter himself. His unconventionality was particularly idiosyncratic, with elements of underground camp, a touch of nostalgia and a subcurrent of tragedy. He was a superb draftsman in the tradition of Degas or Manet, but with an odd tendency toward bravado and self-parody. After ''Washington Crossing the Delaware,'' he painted a life-size homoerotic portrait of O'Hara nude, with boots on. O'Hara was his friend, supporter, occasional lover and collaborator. (Mr. Rivers collaborated with various poets over the years.)
        Another provocative early subject was his mother-in-law, Berdie Burger, nude, her flesh sagging, a Rubensian figure. Mr. Rivers said he felt competitive with the old masters and some of the 19th-century giants. He wanted to prove he could paint figures as well as Géricault. His work spoke to old-fashioned ambitions thrust up against a modern world that seemed to have lost faith in them.
        But the art could be so extreme that it was not clear -- not even to him, perhaps -- whether the result was meant to be, as one critic put it, ''therapeutic or traumatic.'' De Kooning in his obscure but precise way once said that looking at Mr. Rivers's art was ''like pressing your face in wet grass,'' which summed up the mixture of sensations it could provoke.
        A Vision of His Obituary
        In the 1980's, when Mr. Rivers went into the hospital briefly after his heart started fibrillating, he imagined his obituary in The New York Times. ''Will it begin at the bottom of the front page, 'Genius of the Vulgar Dies at 63' '' he asked, ''continued inside with one of the Times's awful photos of me and the usual reference to the name my parents gave me?''
        He was born Yitzroch Loiza Grossberg on Aug. 17, 1923 (although he also claimed to be born in 1925), to Jewish immigrants from the Ukraine. His father, a plumber, became the owner of a small trucking firm. Mr. Rivers recalled working for his father, pushing hand carts through the garment district. He studied piano and fell in love with jazz. A year before his bar mitzvah, he was playing the saxophone on the Borscht Belt in the Catskills. Later, when a comic introduced him and his band as Larry Rivers and the Mudcats, he changed his name.
        In 1942, over his family's objections, he enlisted in the United States Army Air Corps and was inducted into the Army band, then honorably discharged because of a tremor in his left hand. He enrolled at the Juilliard School and studied composition in a class with Miles Davis. They would prepare for exams ''by going outside to smoke some marijuana,'' he said.
        ''We were convinced it would improve our hearing,'' he added. Through Davis, who was living with Charlie Parker, he met other jazz musicians. He began to tour with various groups.
        Mother-in-Law as Muse
        After the war, he married Augusta Burger, the mother of a toddler son, Joseph, whom he later adopted. They had another son, Steven, then divorced. Mr. Rivers reared the boys. O'Hara called the home Mr. Rivers set up a ''bohemian household'' of ''staggering complexity.'' It included Joseph, Steven and Mr. Rivers's mother-in-law, his favorite model until she died in 1957.
        ''She was very easy to live with,'' Mr. Rivers said. ''Nothing threw her. I mean, here she was from a very ordinary Jewish background, born in Harlem when Harlem was still Jews, and there were gay guys in my life, and black people and dope addicts, and she would say, 'Oh, isn't he nice . . . he's nice . . . Tennessee Williams is nice.'
        ''She was slightly mad.''
        Mr. Rivers would return home to the Bronx, his sister Geri recalled (he quoted her in ''What Did I Do?''), ''in this long overcoat with his strange haircut, saying a lot of things no one understood, telling weird jokes without a punch line and using a lot of 'hey man, you dig, man, go, man.' Mamma was beginning to learn how to read and write English in the Communist Party night school when Larry comes around talking black talk.''
        He needed odd jobs to support himself. Once he became Jack Harris, Famous Artist, to demonstrate ballpoint pens at Hearns Department Store on 14th Street, and also worked as a messenger for Philip Rosenthal, an art-supply house on Broadway, making cashless transactions on the sly to keep his own studio well stocked.
        By the 1960's, his reputation and notoriety at a peak, he was experimenting widely. The work could be vulgar or lofty. He made sculptures out of plaster casts and welded metal. His ''Lampman Loves It'' was a sculpture of a couple having intercourse. He collaborated with Jean Tinguely and Yves Klein in Europe.
        His paintings also touched on racial issues in works like ''The Last Civil War Veteran,'' ''Lynching'' and ''Black Olympia.'' He once reconstructed a Harlem tenement front stoop with trash cans from which emanated taped screams and shouts of a family killing a rat.
        Mr. Rivers incorporated more and more everyday things, found objects and popular images into his art, famously using the Dutch Masters cigar box label, based on Rembrandt's ''Syndics,'' in a 1960's series, but also complicating his work with stencils and other lettering devices.
        Serio-Comic Creations
        His ''History of the Russian Revolution'' (1965) was a 33-foot, 76-panel project, which his sons helped him build. Based on his reading of a biography of Trotsky, it was made up of boxes, paintings, drawings, a poem, an honor roll, lead pipes, wooden rifles and a machine gun. Mr. Rivers called it ''the greatest painting-sculpture-mixed media of the 20th century, or the stupidest.''
        He went on to make images about the Holocaust, and homages to Hollywood. In the 1980's he undertook a series after Marcel Duchamp's ''Nude Descending a Staircase,'' did nine Op-Ed illustrations for The Times, including one of ''Reagan Crossing the Caribbean'' at the time of the invasion of Grenada, and, when commissioned to paint the story of the Jews from Moses to Theodore Herzl, produced the three-part ''History of Matzo.'' ''In Jewish history,'' he said, ''there's a humorous way of looking at things.''
        Splitting his time between art and music, he played the saxophone with several bands in later years, touring successfully until he died. His daughter Gwynne sometimes sang with him. His East 13th Street Band made commercial recordings in the 1980's and early 90's. His last group was called the Climax Band.
        He is survived by his wife, Clarice, a Welsh-born teacher he married in 1961; they were separated but remained friendly. He is also survived by their daughters, Gwynne Rivers and Emma Rivers, both of New York City, and his sons, Joseph Rivers, of Pleasant Valley, N.Y.; Steven Rivers, of Nyack, N.Y.; and Sam Deshuk Rivers, his son with Daria Deshuk, a painter he lived with for 10 years. Ms. Deshuk and Sam live in New York City. There are eight grandchildren.
        His two sisters, Geri Block and Joan Gordon, both of Southampton, also survive him. For the last five years, he lived with Jeni Olin, a poet.
        Always a Risk-Taker
        A critic once claimed that ''the innovations of Rauschenberg and to a lesser degree Johns and the Pop artists are incomprehensible without Rivers.'' Maybe. It is at least true that Mr. Rivers helped bridge the gulf between Abstract Expressionism and the mass imagery of Pop. At a time when sly figure painting is now back in fashion, his early work seems remarkably fresh and prescient. His willingness to take chances was in the end perhaps his finest quality.
        About his later unevenness, Mr. Rivers said: ''I keep shifting my interests. I can have a few months when I have visions of the Holocaust, and then, the next few months, I'm suddenly doing something that might be considered trite. Like fashion. Though I really can't make much sense of it, except for the continuation of the absurd in art.
        ''I go from this to that, and why be ashamed of it? It seems to me this is the human experience.''
        Correction:  August 23, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the artist Larry Rivers last Friday misstated the role of the writer Jack Kerouac in a 1959 film short, ''Pull My Daisy,'' which featured Mr. Rivers. Kerouac was the narrator; he did not appear in the film.
      