
        Benjamin C. Thompson, an architect whose exuberant recreation of Faneuil Hall in Boston inspired festival marketplaces around the country and whose Design Research International stores have influenced home furnishings to this day, died on Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84.
        Conventional boundaries were not part of Mr. Thompson's practice, for he was just as much an advocate as an architect; of vital cities, human commerce, lively design and good eating.
        ''For art to be part of our life we must live with it, not just go to museums,'' Mr. Thompson said in a 1963 interview in The New Yorker. ''In a way, things like museums and Lincoln Center kill art and music. Art is not for particular people but should be in everything you do -- in cooking and, God knows, in the bread on the table, in the way everything is done.''
        As crowded today as ever, the Faneuil Hall Marketplace offered a formula repeated so many times -- even by Mr. Thompson himself at the South Street Seaport in Manhattan, Harborplace in Baltimore and Union Station in Washington -- that it is difficult now to recall how radical the notion once was that a dilapidated, moribund inner-city locale could be remade as a vibrant, popular, round-the-clock gathering place.
        ''It was food, it was the culture of food, it was the design of objects that surround us in our daily lives and the buildings that sold them,'' the architect Moshe Safdie said yesterday about Mr. Thompson's career. ''It was an extraordinary celebration of design, life, urbanism and all the things we tend to take for granted now. He was one of the forces that changed America in that respect.''
        Quincy Market, the first phase of the Faneuil Hall project, opened in 1976. Dedicated, in Mr. Thompson's words, to ''the sight and smell of food, the cornerstone of human commerce,'' the 150-year-old, 550-foot-long market hall was filled with restaurants and specialty shops where one could buy fresh herbs, raw oysters, coffee beans and Chinese cooking supplies.
        ''Shopping was the excuse, the stated activity,'' the architect David S. Rockwell said yesterday, speaking of Mr. Thompson's work. ''He was able to combine getting developers interested in cities and bringing people together as a way to celebrate the pleasure inherent in public spaces.''
        Mr. Thompson is ''never one to settle for a single basket of strawberries when he can make a splash with 20,'' the social historian Jane Davison wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1976 about Quincy Market, ''and he has encouraged vendors to achieve an effect often described but seldom seen -- 'gay profusion.' ''
        He had already introduced America to the bold, dazzling geometric and floral patterns of Marimekko fabrics from Finland, which were among the highlights of the D/R stores' offerings from Europe and Japan.
        Bright and cleanly styled home furnishings and accessories are almost everywhere now, but four decades ago there were only a handful of stores where they could be found, most notably the D/R outlets in Cambridge and San Francisco and at 53 East 57th Street in Manhattan.
        ''I believe the furnishing of the interior is part of architecture,'' Mr. Thompson said in 1963, when D/R opened in Manhattan. ''By -- call it environment, if you will -- I wanted to show people the next step.''
        Mr. Thompson was born in St. Paul, Minn., and graduated from Yale University in 1941, after which he served in the Navy.
        His wife, Jane McC. Thompson, was also his partner in many ventures, including the restaurant Harvest in Cambridge.
        She survives him, as do his children, Anthony, of Washington; Nicholas, of Belmont, Mass.; Deborah, of Lexington, Mass.; Marina, of Nahant, Mass.; and Benjamin Jr., of Cambridge; two stepchildren, Sheila McCullough of Northampton, Mass., and Allen McCullough of Brooklyn; and 10 grandchildren.
        After World War II, Mr. Thompson and six colleagues founded TAC, the Architects Collaborative, in Cambridge. They were joined by Walter Gropius, a leading figure at the Bauhaus, whom Mr. Thompson succeeded in 1963 as chairman of the Graduate School of Design at Harvard.
        After 20 years at TAC, Mr. Thompson founded Benjamin Thompson and Associates. His five-story, all-glass showcase for Design Research opened in Cambridge in 1970. Architectural Record said the transparent structure ''points the way to a method of glass building that could create a warmer city, adding color and light and optimism to the life of the streets.''
        But Mr. Thompson lost control of Design Research soon thereafter. The Manhattan store closed in 1979. The Cambridge building now houses Crate & Barrel.
        Mr. Thompson's national reputation was earned in a series of waterfront projects with the developer James W. Rouse, beginning with Faneuil Hall and including Harborplace of 1980, the South Street Seaport of 1985 and the Bayside Marketplace in Miami and Jacksonville Landing in Jacksonville, Fla., both of 1987.
        Although the festival marketplace formula is now criticized for replacing diversity with homogeneity, and for eroding the distinction between urban and suburban, public and private, it was conceived as the answer to the serious shortcomings of urban renewal by bulldozer.
        As Quincy Market opened in 1976, Mr. Thompson said, ''The problems of the cities, how to create a new city center in practically every city in the country, is the greatest issue facing the country today.''
      