
        Martin Deutsch, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist who discovered the strange short-lived substance known as positronium, died on Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85.
        Dr. Deutsch made his discovery in 1951. Positronium, whose existence had been theorized 10 years earlier, is a kind of atom that consists of an electron and its antimatter twin, a positron. It is only one two-thousandth the weight of hydrogen, which consists of an electron and a proton. Positronium's two component parts carry opposite electrical charges of the same magnitude; the particles thus annihilate each other, their masses becoming ''dematerialized'' in less than a billionth of a second and transmuted into energy.
        Dr. Deutsch taught at M.I.T. from 1941 until 1987, except for three years when he worked on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
        Though he spent his entire adult life in the United States, he described himself as a product of the intellectual culture of Vienna. Born there on Jan. 29, 1917, he was the son of doctors. His mother, Helene Deutsch, was a psychoanalyst who underwent analysis with Freud and was director of the training institute of the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society.
        Emigrating to the United States with her in 1935, he immediately entered M.I.T., earning his undergraduate degree in two years and his Ph.D. in physics in 1941.
        Two years later, he left Cambridge for Los Alamos, N.M., to work on the problems of fission physics for the Manhattan Project. After the war, he joined other scientists in speaking out against the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
        He returned to M.I.T. in 1946, finding a university that had been energized by the Manhattan Project and infused with cold-war tax dollars. His studies of radioactive decay led him to the discovery of positronium.
        From 1973 to 1979, he was the head of M.I.T.'s Laboratory for Nuclear Science, taking over when a colleague he had recruited, Samuel Ting, won the Nobel Prize in Physics. He was also a teacher and mentor of Henry Kendall, who was a 1994 Nobel Prize winner for his discovery of the quark.
        Dr. Deutsch is survived by his wife of 63 years, Suzanne, and two sons, L. Peter, of Menlo Park, Calif., and Nicholas, of New York City.
        Dr. Deutsch was philosophical about his failure to win a Nobel Prize, for which he was nominated in 1956 for his work on positronium. He contended that teaching was his main vocation.
        In an interview in 1998 with The Boston Globe Magazine, he said, ''I have made my contributions, and many have been significant contributions, but I think my real accomplishment came as an educator.''
      