
        Anton Guadagno, the artistic director and principal conductor of the Palm Beach Opera in Florida, and a frequent guest conductor in European and American opera houses, died on Friday in Vienna. Mr. Guadagno, who had homes in Vienna, Palm Beach and New York, was 79 and had conducted Verdi's ''Otello'' at an opera festival in St. Margarethen, Austria, the previous day.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Michele L. Eassa, spokeswoman for the Palm Beach Opera.
        Anton Rocco Guadagno was born in Castellammare del Golfo, Sicily, and studied conducting and composition at the Vincenzo Bellini Conservatory in Palermo and the Academy of St. Cecilia in Rome. He continued his studies at the Salzburg Mozarteum, where he worked with Herbert von Karajan and won first prize for conducting in 1948. He was music director of the Bellas Artes opera season in Mexico City for 12 years.
        He made his United States conducting debut in 1952, when he led the New York Philharmonic in a program that included works by contemporary Italian composers. During the 1958-59 season he was an assistant conductor at the Metropolitan Opera, but he did not make his podium debut at that house until he returned as a guest conductor in 1982.
        Mr. Guadagno was the music director of the Philadelphia Lyric Opera from 1966 to 1972 and was principal conductor of the summer seasons at the Cincinnati Opera for several years. He also conducted regularly at the Vienna State Opera, starting in the 1970's, as well as at Covent Garden in London, the Paris Opera, Arena di Verona in Italy and the Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires. He made more than a dozen opera recordings and also conducted the orchestral accompaniments on aria and song recordings by Luciano Pavarotti, Montserrat Caballé, Plácido Domingo and Renata Tebaldi.
        Mr. Guadagno became the principal conductor of the Palm Beach Opera in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, Dolores, and a son, Steven, of Manhattan, who is also a conductor.
      