
        Alfred Ligon, the owner of one of the nation's oldest black-owned bookstores, who rebuilt the business after it was burned to the ground in the Los Angeles riots of 1992, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Montebello, Calif. He was 96 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Ligon's store, the Aquarian Book Shop, closed in 1994. At its peak, it was a place where the writers Maya Angelou and Alex Haley read from their works, Michael Jackson and his mother shopped, and everyone from black mothers looking for appropriate children's books to rare book hunters prowled for treasures.
        For the metaphysically inclined, a breed that included Mr. Ligon (pronounced luh-GAHN), there were books about astrology and the occult, as well as tarot cards.
        It was his bent for finding philosophical meaning in what to others seemed cruel or absurd that distinguished his response to the riots that raged in South-Central Los Angeles in 1992 after four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted in the beating of Rodney King. Mr. Ligon's store was burned to cinders, destroying 7,000 books. His uninsured losses exceeded $300,000.
        ''As I began to study this, I realized that these things had to be destroyed to give one an opportunity to move to a higher stage,'' he said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1992. ''The magnificent phoenix bird should rise from these ashes. Now, it may take awhile.''
        He was born in Atlanta in 1906 and as a youth moved to Chicago, where he became a ballroom dancing instructor and a printer's apprentice. In 1936, he moved to Los Angles to study metaphysics and went to work as a waiter on the Southern Pacific Railroad. He opened the Aquarian with money he had saved from his job.
        He could not remember what year the bookstore opened, he told The Los Angeles Daily News in an interview in 1991. But he had kept a newspaper advertisement from 1941, strong evidence that the Aquarian was then the country's longest-running bookstore owned by blacks, stocking predominately books of interests to blacks and selling mainly to blacks.
        Karen Johnson, manager of the Marcus Bookstore in San Francisco, said she believed the Aquarian had been the oldest black-owned bookstore and that hers, now 42 years old, was now the oldest. The Liberation Bookstore, at Lenox Avenue and 131st Street in Harlem, is 34 years old.
        Mr. Ligon came up with the store's name from the tile of a 1907 book, ''The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus Christ.'' It was written by Levi Dowling and described a period he contends Christ spent traveling and learning in Tibet, Egypt, Persia and Greece.
        Mr. Ligon and his sister Jeni LeGon, a former dancer for the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio, bought a smattering of fiction, nonfiction and metaphysical books with about $100 in personal savings.
        They were more dedicated to enriching blacks intellectually than to enriching themselves financially. At the beginning, they rented copies for a few pennies a day, calling their business the Aquarian Library and Bookshop. The library service was dropped, as well as the word.
        ''It's a starvation business,'' Mr. Ligon said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1982. ''But we're an institution. Even just a trickle of people who want these books justify our existence.''
        The small store sought to compete with larger stores and chains by tapping a specialized audience. It succeeded in this at first by stocking books by Langston Hughes and other members of the Harlem Renaissance.
        The bookstore accepted self-published books as a way to introduce new authors and ideas, something larger stores are loath to do. The store kept books for months, sometimes years, until they found a market, whereas chains quickly jettison slow sellers.
        A special attraction for researchers was Mr. Ligon's collection of historic documents, including drafts of Marcus Garvey's speeches and letters of W.E.B. DuBois.
        In 1948, Mr. Ligon married Bernice Goodwin, who worked in his store. She helped make decisions, among them to start a Black Book of the Month Club, which offered each book to a mailing list of 500.
        Mr. Ligon told The Daily News that the Watts riots of 1965 were helpful to booksellers because they inspired more interest in history and politics.
        ''There was a whole change of consciousness,'' he said.
        In the late 1960's the growth of black studies programs at colleges created a new market for the store. The trend toward New Age books meant more of a market for the metaphysical works the store had long promoted.
        But interest in black books waned in the 1970's, except when people lined up around the block when Mr. Haley introduced ''Roots'' in 1976. By the mid-1980's, interest in black works had grown, but by that time the chains were offering them as well.
        After the 1992 riots, writers, publishers and book clubs donated money to allow the Aquarian to open at another site. Mr. Ligon subsidized the business with his pension, just as he had with his railroad waiter's wages at the beginning.
        The Aquarian closed in 1994 after Mrs. Ligon learned she had liver cancer. She died in 2000.
        In addition to his sister, Mr. Ligon is survived by his daughter, Jeni Terrell; his son, Alfred Lloyd Ligon; six grandchildren; and several great grandchildren.
        Mr. Ligon continued to operate the spiritual center that had been attached to the store. He lectured on African spiritualism and black history in his home.
        His vision was large. He saw the 1992 riots as a manifestation of a 500-year cosmic cycle, not as a personal tragedy. In the fire, he said in an interview with CNN, was a spark of life.
        ''I'm trying to pick up that spark of life and continue,'' Mr. Ligon said.
      