
        Stanley Marcus, whose verve and flair in running the Neiman Marcus stores made him one of the world's best-known retailers, died yesterday at Zale Lipshy University Hospital in Dallas. He was 96.
        ''I have the simplest taste; I am always satisfied with the best,'' Mr. Marcus was known to say. It was one of his many ways of calling attention to the wares purveyed in his famed Dallas specialty store and its sister emporiums.
        His idea of the best was enshrined in Neiman Marcus's inventories over the years, and it included such sumptuous items as authentic Chinese junks at $11,500 apiece, his-and-hers Beechcraft planes, and scarves made of a supersoft fabric called shahtoosh, which came from the neck hairs of Himalayan goats.
        That emphasis on quality, luxury and rarity appealed to newly rich customers who were uncertain in matters of taste. It suggested that they could buy quantities of costly Neiman Marcus goods with the comforting certainty that everything was truly first class. To reinforce that notion, the company's catalog once had a page entitled ''How to spend $1,000,000 at Neiman Marcus,'' with a shopping list ranging from rare furs to an 18-karat gold needle.
        Thus titillated, the customers, both rich and not-so-rich, kept coming back for more. Neiman Marcus prospered, and so did Mr. Marcus, the provincial merchant who had been voted the ugliest boy in his high school class, who had suffered from anti-Semitism at Amherst College and who became more of a celebrity than most of the oil millionaires who sauntered through his stores.
        And so it was only natural that once, when Mr. Marcus and his wife were relaxing at a royal garden party in London, Lord Mountbatten should stroll over and present them to the queen and other members of the royal family. It was only natural, too, that the stylish Princess Alexandra should exclaim, in mock pique, on encountering Mr. Marcus: ''I'm angry at you. I didn't receive my Neiman Marcus catalog this year.''
        A hard-headed man, Mr. Marcus was unfazed by such technical slip-ups: ''Fortunately,'' he reflected in his 1974 memoirs, ''Minding the Store,'' ''we can always pass the blame to the Postal Service.''
        That hard-headedness was partly responsible for the growth of Neiman Marcus, which was founded in 1907 by his father, Herbert Marcus; his aunt, Carrie Marcus Neiman; and his uncle, Abraham Lincoln Neiman.
        Stanley Marcus went to work at the Dallas store, the company's first, in 1926 and soon showed his merchandising talent. He began staging the first weekly fashion shows to be held in an American department store. When business flagged in the 1930's, he had Neiman Marcus cater to the middle-class market as well as the carriage trade, saying, ''We want to sell the millionaire, his young daughter -- and his secretary.''
        He was a pioneer, among retailers outside New York, in advertising in national fashion magazines, which further enhanced his company's prestige. He originated the Neiman Marcus Awards, given annually to high achievers in the fashion world. And in 1949, as Neiman Marcus's executive vice president, he was elected board chairman of the American Retail Federation.
        In the following year, Mr. Marcus became Neiman Marcus's president, and in his first 17 years in that job he increased annual sales to $58.5 million from $20.6 million, its annual profits to $2.1 million from $880,000 and its operations from the single Dallas store to four: two stores in the Dallas area, one in Houston and one in Fort Worth. Today, there are more than 30 Neiman Marcus stores in 17 states and Washington.
        In 1969, when sales had risen to more than $62 million, Mr. Marcus sold the company to the merchandising conglomerate Carter Hawley Hale Stores for stock then worth almost $40 million. The Marcus family, which had held the largest block of shares in Neiman Marcus, became large shareholders in the conglomerate, and Mr. Marcus insisted on retaining a free hand in running the  business.
        He stayed on as Neiman Marcus's president until 1972, when he was succeeded by his son, Richard, and became board chairman for four years, which were followed by three years as chairman of the executive committee. He was also a corporate executive vice president and a director of Carter Hawley Hale. Neiman Marcus Stores is now part of the Neiman Marcus Group, which also includes Bergdorf Goodman and NM Direct.
        As a salesman, Mr. Marcus was fascinated by fur retailing, and he greatly expanded Neiman Marcus's fur sales. It is estimated that he personally sold more than $10 million worth of furs to Neiman Marcus customers.
        ''No man is too big to go out and make a sale,'' he observed in his memoirs, and he practiced what he preached. Leon Harris, a member of another Texas retailing dynasty, once recalled that at a Harris dinner party in the 1940's, Mr. Marcus, already a power in the merchandising world, irritated the hostess by pulling a diamond ring out of his pocket and trying to sell it to the guest of honor.
        Similarly, in 1946, when Mr. Marcus paid a visit to Dwight D. Eisenhower, then a general, at his Paris headquarters, he began a sales pitch, which turned out to be stunningly farsighted.
        ''General,'' he said, ''I hope you will decide to seek the nomination for the presidency and I hope you will be elected. And if you are, I hope that, as an ex-Texan, you will buy Mrs. Eisenhower's inaugural gown from us.''
        Eisenhower, after explaining that all his shopping was done at military post exchanges, laughed and said: ''If I do, I will.''
        The rest was fashion history. On Inauguration Day 1953, Mrs. Eisenhower's Hattie Carnegie suit and her pink Nettie Rosenstein gown were both furnished by Neiman Marcus.
        By 1965, it was perhaps inevitable that Lady Bird Johnson, as a loyal Texan, should wear a gold-colored Neiman Marcus dress to the five balls for Lyndon B. Johnson's inauguration that year. Her two daughters, Luci and Lynda, were also in Neiman Marcus gowns.
        And when Luci Johnson was married to Patrick J. Nugent in 1966 at the White House -- with Mr. Marcus among the guests -- Neiman Marcus provided her gown, her mother's dress and the 12 bridesmaids' dresses.
        That sort of coup enlarged the company's fame, and so did Mr. Marcus's idea -- borrowed from a store in Stockholm -- of staging fortnight-long promotions of wares from one particular country or region.
        Mr. Marcus was also a virtuoso at handling customers and potential customers even when he was not actually trying to make a sale.
        Yet even after decades in the public eye, Mr. Marcus remained somewhat sensitive to criticism, even of a mild sort.
        And Mr. Marcus was evidently displeased when Mr. Harris described him in a 1979 book, ''Merchant Princes,'' as ''a man difficult to like and impossible not to admire.''
        When the book's publishers asked Mr. Marcus for an endorsement, he replied rather sternly: ''I find Mr. Harris's book difficult to like and impossible not to admire.''
        Mr. Marcus also took a stern view of his responsibilities as the second-generation head of a family business. He liked to quote what he said was a dictum of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe: ''What you have inherited from your father, you must earn in order to possess.''
        Stanley Marcus was born on April 20, 1905, in Dallas, one of the four sons of Herbert and Minnie Lichenstein Marcus. He attended Amherst for only a year, during which, he wrote in his memoirs, he was excluded from fraternities because he was Jewish. He then transferred to Harvard College, where he graduated with a B.A. in 1925 before attending Harvard Business School for a year.
        As Mr. Marcus grew older, he became the acknowledged successor of his father, the company's president. But it was only after the elder Mr. Marcus's death in 1950 that the board voted him in as president.
        In addition to wielding influence in the business world, Mr. Marcus also became a notable liberal voice in Dallas, where conservatism was strong. In 1963, after President Kennedy was assassinated there, he took out full-page newspaper advertisements, entitled ''What's Right With Dallas,'' that defended the city but asked its residents to show ''toleration of differing points of view for the health of the community'' and to reject ''the spirit of absolutism for which our community has suffered.''
        He also attracted attention as an author. In addition to his memoirs, he wrote ''Quest for the Best,'' a 1979 book in which, without false modesty, he wrote about what he called ''my experience in the pursuit of the BEST products and services, worldwide, over the past 50 years.'' It bore the dedication ''To Billie, who was the best.''
        Billie was Mr. Marcus's wife, born Mary Cantrell, whom he met when she was a sportswear buyer for Neiman Marcus. They were married in 1932, and she died in 1978.
        Mr. Marcus is survived by his second wife, Linda Marcus of Dallas; two daughters, Jerrie Marcus Smith of Dallas and Wendy Marcus Raymont of Washington; a son, Richard Marcus of Willow City, Tex.; 10 grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
      