
        Frank Inn, who helped train Lassie and Rhubarb the cat, and on his own discovered and made actors of Arnold the pig on ''Green Acres,'' the 500 or so animals on ''The Beverly Hillbillies'' and his greatest star, Benji, the cuddly movie dog, died on July 27 in Sylmar, Calif. He was 86.
        He died in the nursing home where he had lived in recent months, his daughter Kathleen Hees said.
        Mr. Inn may have been television's greatest animal star maker. In the early 1950's, he trained his first big star, Cleo, the basset hound on ''The People's Choice'' who appeared with the actor Jackie Cooper. He followed up with Tramp, the mutt on ''My Three Sons,'' and Higgins, the canine star of ''Petticoat Junction,'' and also trained animals for shows like ''I Love Lucy,'' ''Ozzie and Harriet,'' ''The Addams Family'' and ''Barnaby Jones.''
        At his peak, he worked a menagerie of around 1,000 animals, tended by 30 trainers, many of whom went on to train their own animal celebrities. Among them were Karl Lewis Miller, trainer of Babe the pig; Steve Martin, the handler of Gidget the taco-hawking Chihuahua; and Gary Gero, whose animals were seen in the recent remakes of ''Dr. Dolittle'' and ''101 Dalmatians.''
        From mynah birds to skunks, Mr. Inn had everything beastly a studio might order. And if he didn't have it, he improvised: his Hereford bull looked just like the needed buffalo after a makeup artist's magic.
        Elias Franklin Freeman was born on May 8, 1916, in Camby, Ind. He grew up in Mooresville, Ind., where his father was a Quaker minister and ran a flower shop and nursery. In an article he wrote in Full Gospel Business Men's Voice, Mr. Inn recalled working on a farm as a young man and being fired when he was seen helping the plow horses lie down and relax.
        He headed west, not least because he was tired of spending so much of his time at his father's church services, he said in the article. He rode freight cars on his journey and took odd jobs, including that of circus clown. With the new life came a new name. Family members are not sure why he chose Frank Inn.
        He got a job at a stable in Culver City, Calif. When a horse ran away with a rider, he grabbed the reins and kept it from running onto a busy highway. The grateful man worked for MGM and gave him a job at the studio sweeping streets, among other things, for $29.10 a week.
        In the mid-1930's, he was injured in a car accident, and was taken to the hospital. A doctor pronounced him dead and sent him to the morgue. A group of embalming students was about to go to work on him when he moved slightly.
        Though he was saved, Mr. Inn was far from recovered. A friend took him in during his long convalescence and got him a dog for company, which he named Jeep. When he almost fell over on his wheelchair reaching for Jeep, the dog barked. He found he could get a bark thereafter by simply raising his hand. He had trained his first animal, finding a natural talent in the process.
        ''He had an almost telepathic communication with animals,'' his daughter said. ''He could tell them to do things just by talking to them like a human. It used to be kind of eerie to me.''
        When he returned to MGM, he was watching Henry East, a legendary trainer of animals, repeatedly fail to get a dog to climb up a flight of stairs, enter a bedroom, jump into bed, crawl under the covers, stick his head from the other end of the covers and bark. Mr. Inn said he had a dog that could do it and brought Jeep.
        That led, in the late 1930's, to his first training jobs, including work with the dogs that appeared in the ''Blondie'' movie series.
        Mr. East introduced Mr. Inn to the Weatherwaxes, the well-known family of animal trainers. He watched Frank Weatherwax work with Toto on ''The Wizard of Oz,'' and offered helpful suggestions. The Weatherwaxes hired him, and for 14 years he worked with Rudd Weatherwax, training Lassie after Lassie. On trips to locations for ''Lassie Come Home'' (1943), he rode in the boxcar with the dog.
        Mr. Inn soon began to work on his own, and in 1952, won the first of his 40 Patsy awards, given by the American Humane Association, for ''Rhubarb,'' the movie about the yellow-striped cat he trained.
        At his peak, he had more than 1,000 animals, including 100 dogs, 200 cats, farm animals and jungle animals. He had a mountain lion, bears, snakes, raccoons, chimpanzees and, according to his daughter, ''things that smelled really bad.''
        His crowning success was Benji, who starred in four feature films and assorted television shows. Mr. Inn rescued him from the Burbank Animal Shelter in 1960, and he starred in ''Petticoat Junction.'' He was then called Higgins, but in the show's script he was never more than ''dog.'' Each week, for seven years, the dog was called on to do something new, Mr. Inn said. ''Which made that dog about the smartest that ever was, in my book,'' he said.
        The dog came out of retirement to make the original ''Benji'' movie, which was released in 1974. He died in 1978 at 19, and his offspring carried on.
        Mr. Inn was aghast when the director of ''Benji,'' Joe Camp, suggested a big funeral with plenty of publicity.
        ''Joe, you're out of your head,'' he said in an interview with New Times, a Los Angeles newspaper, in 2000. ''The trainer buried Lassie in a pet cemetery and didn't call it Lassie. He didn't call it Lassie until seven or eight Lassies had died.''
        Mr. Inn was married to the former Juanita Heard for 50 years, until her death in 1996. In addition to Ms. Hees of Chico, Calif., he is survived by another daughter, Lori Grajeda, who also lives in Chico; his brother Robert of Indianapolis; and his sisters Ernestine Bray and Inezrose Bailey, both of Mooresville, Ind.
        Mr. Inn, who often gave dogs to disabled people, wrote poems, including some pondering whether Jesus had a dog. He got almost all his dogs and cats from shelters, which an award citation from the American Humane Association said inspired one million more canine adoptions.
        He left instructions that the ashes of Benji were to be buried in the lining of his coffin.
      