
        William Warfield, the bass-baritone whose repertory included everything from theater works to Handel oratorios but who was best known for his portrayals of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was complications from a broken neck suffered in a fall last month, a brother, Thaddeus Warfield, told the Associated Press.
        Mr. Warfield's voice was deep, powerful and supple, and he invested all his work -- whether folk songs, German art songs or Bach cantatas -- with a combination of elegance and warmth that were his trademark. His regal accounts of ''But Who May Abide'' and ''The Trumpet Shall Sound,'' for example, are among the joys of Leonard Bernstein's 1956 recording of Handel's ''Messiah.''
        Still, no role was more central to his repertory than Porgy, which he sang all over the world, starting with legendary performances at the New York City Opera in the 1950's. When he returned to New York to sing Porgy at City Opera in 1961, Howard Taubman wrote in The New York Times that Mr. Warfield's performance ''has dignity and humility, and his singing has the kind of nuance, control and potency one rarely encounters in the Broadway theater.''
        A 1963 album of selections from ''Porgy and Bess'' with the soprano Leontyne Price (they were married in 1952 and later divorced) was one of his most highly regarded recordings. A performance of Aaron Copland's ''Old American Songs,'' with the composer conducting, has also remained an enduring favorite.
        William Warfield was born in West Helena, Ark., the oldest of five sons of a Baptist minister. Two of his brothers -- Vern and Thaddeus, both of Rochester, N.Y. -- survive him.
        The family moved to Rochester when Mr. Warfield was a child, and in the late 1930's he won first prize in the National Music Educators League Competition in St. Louis, which brought him a scholarship to the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester. His studies were interrupted by service as an Army intelligence officer during World War II, but he received his bachelor's degree at Eastman in the late 1940's.
        His original goal was to become a music teacher, partly because he did not have great confidence that a black singer could make a career in concert halls and opera. But some of the few who had -- among them Marian Anderson and Paul Robeson -- encouraged him to consider the stage his goal, and on their advice, he focused more on vocal and dramatic studies than on teaching. Mr. Warfield's earliest professional engagements were in a production of Marc Blitzstein's Broadway opera, ''Regina,'' and in several musicals, including a touring production of ''Call Me Mister.''
        His breakthrough, though, came on March 19, 1950, when he made his recital debut at Town Hall. The performance, and the enthusiastic reviews that followed, created several immediate opportunities for Mr. Warfield, including a tour of Australia and a contract with MGM to play Joe in ''Showboat,'' reprising a role that one of his heroes, Paul Robeson, had sung in the 1936 filmed version of the work.
        He had, actually, been singing that show's centerpiece, ''Ol' Man River,'' since the earlier film was released, and after 1951 it became a staple of his repertory.
        ''It's different every time, and that's what keeps it fresh for me,'' Mr. Warfield told an interviewer two years ago. ''I adapt it to what is on my mind in the course of the day I'm performing. Sometimes there's a sadness to it, sometimes it's really laid back and sometimes it's even angry. The most difficult time I had with it was singing it just four days after the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination. It was a Sunday matinee in a small Midwestern town. I had to hold back my emotion somewhat to keep from breaking down altogether.''
        In 1952 Mr. Warfield undertook a long tour of ''Porgy and Bess'' that included performances in Dallas, Chicago, Pittsburgh and Washington, as well as at the Staatsoper in Vienna and halls in Berlin and London. He also made recital debuts in Vienna and Berlin during the tour, but what made the biggest headlines at the time was his marriage -- the day before the cast left for Europe -- to his co-star, Ms. Price. The wedding took place at the Abyssinian Baptist Church, in Harlem, with the entire cast of ''Porgy and Bess'' in attendance.
        The couple separated six years later and divorced in 1972, but they remained on friendly terms and continued to collaborate.
        Like many singers, Mr. Warfield turned increasingly to teaching after the prime years of his stage career. He became a professor of music at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana in 1975, and he joined the faculty of Northwestern University in 1994. But he continued to perform. In 1989 he began touring with the Jim Cullum Jazz Band, narrating the ensemble's concert version of ''Porgy and Bess,'' and in the mid-1990's he performed in a staging of ''Showboat.'' He was scheduled to sing at Carnegie Hall next March.
      