
        Joe McCluskey, a 1932 Olympic medalist who won more United States track and field titles than any other runner, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 91.
        Although Henry Laskau, a long-retired race walker, won 42 national titles, no runner has approached McCluskey's 27. From 1930 to 1948, running mostly for the New York Athletic Club, McCluskey won his titles at distances as short as the 3,000-meter steeplechase on the track and as long as 15 kilometers on the road. In the steeplechase, a demanding seven-and-a-half-lap race requiring the runner to clear a water jump and three additional hurdles every lap, he won the outdoor title 9 times in 13 years.
        He did it with little speed (his fastest quarter-mile was only 55.8 seconds) and no speed workouts. He ran with almost a shuffle, his knees never getting high, and at times he had to grab a hurdle to clear it. He attributed his success to desire.
        ''I don't think I had as much ability as some others,'' he said, ''but I put more into it. When you can't stand at the end of a race, you know you've given everything. I ran a lot of races when I couldn't stand at the end.''
        Joseph Paul McCluskey was born June 2, 1911, in South Manchester, Conn. Running success came early, and as a Fordham University junior he won a bronze medal in the steeplechase in the 1932 Summer Olympics. Had officials not made a basic error, the medal could have been silver.
        In the final, a substitute official ran the board showing how many laps remained. The first time the runners passed him, he failed to hold up the sign. From then on, he was always one lap behind. At the end of the regulation 3,000 meters, McCluskey was second, but the officials told the runners that one lap remained. On that lap, McCluskey fell back and finished third.
        ''I yelled at the judges,'' he recalled. ''When they said six laps to go, I yelled, 'Five!' When they said five, I yelled, 'Four!' ''
        After the race, McCluskey told the officials that they had erred. They realized he was right and apologized, and because they had cost him the silver medal they left it up to him whether to rerun the race the next day at the proper distance. He declined, saying, ''A race has only one finish line.'' Years later, he said, ''Sure, I'm still bitter.''
        In the 1936 Summer Olympics, he finished 10th in the steeplechase. In 1948, at age 37, he came within two yards of making the United States Olympic team despite two falls caused by others.
        He spent four and a half years in the Navy during World War II, including two years in the Pacific area as a lieutenant commander. He worked almost three decades as a New York stockbroker, and for 14 years he coached the New York Athletic Club track team. He was elected to the National Track and Field Hall of Fame, as well as the halls of fame of the New York Athletic Club and Fordham University.
        At 42, he married Anne Elizabeth Conger of New York. Seven years later, they had had eight children, including twins. He is survived by his wife; 5 sons, Joseph Jr. of Manhattan, James, Robert and Richard of Ridgewood, Queens, and Martin of London; three daughters, Mary Cotard of Paris, Katy McElroy of Liverpool, N.Y., and Susan Jaeger of Garden City, N.Y.; 11 grandchildren; a brother, Dr. John McCluskey of Duxbury, Mass.; and a sister, Sister Edwina McCluskey of Hartford.
        He never retired from track. After he turned 40, he started running shorter races and throwing weights in masters' meets. At 73, he competed in 13 events in 12 hours (''I was tired for a week afterward,'' he said, ''but I enjoyed it''). At 84, he ran in an open two-mile race at Fordham.
        He never lost his love for the sport.
        ''I had to hitchhike to a lot of meets,'' he said. ''Today, they get expenses. But you still have to train hard and work long hours to become a good distance runner. It takes a lot of training.
        ''I love to compete. I think I've had the spirit of competition in my blood since I was 10 years old. I'd probably be a wealthy man today if I had never run, but I enjoyed it, even on the days when I didn't feel good or when something was going wrong. I'd just sit down and put on my track shoes and run in the open air, and it would invigorate me and make me feel happy.''
      