
        Abe Lemons, who won 599 games coaching basketball at Oklahoma City University, Pan American University and the University of Texas in a career that spanned 34 seasons, died on Monday at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Lemons was ever the entertainer, whether pleasing crowds with a run-and-gun style that produced seven National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament appearances at Oklahoma City and a 1978 National Invitation Tournament championship with Texas or chewing on cigars while offering homespun observations.
        ''I don't take no notes or do any scouting,'' Lemons said after Texas defeated Rutgers in the '78 N.I.T. semifinals. ''Heck, I don't even own a pencil. We just pay attention to what we're doing out there.''
        In 25 seasons at Oklahoma City (1955 to 1973 and 1983 to 1990), 3 seasons at Pan American in Edinburg, Tex., (1973 to 1976) and 6 seasons at the University of Texas in Austin (1976 to 1982), Lemons had a record of 599-343.
        His Texas team's 101-93 victory over North Carolina State in the 1978 N.I.T. championship final at Madison Square Garden produced the only postseason basketball tournament title in the university's history. But Lemons may have been remembered as much for a remark he made on a dreary night experienced by one of his Oklahoma City teams in the N.I.T.
        It was halftime at the 1968 tournament, and his squad had fallen far behind Duke in a first-round game. At intermission, Lemons ordered his players to hold a scrimmage on the Garden court.
        Howard Cosell peppered Lemons with questions in a broadcast interview at halftime, wondering whether the coach was tiring his team and whether he was putting on a stunt.
        Lemons grew exasperated, and he interrupted Cosell. ''Listen, mister, you may be big stuff in New York,'' Lemons said, ''but you ain't nothin' in Walters, Okla.''
        A native of Ryan, Okla., Lemons grew up in Walters, played basketball at Oklahoma City and worked as an assistant coach before being named its head coach.
        Lemons seemed destined for his most successful season in 1981-82, when Texas won its first 14 games. But the Longhorns lost 11 of their last 13 after Mike Wacker, an outstanding forward, injured a knee, and Lemons was fired by DeLoss Dodds, the athletic director.
        Dodds spoke blandly of the need for ''new leadership.''
        Lemons was less diplomatic. ''What I ought to do before I leave is schedule DePaul for the new guy coming in,'' he told The Daily Oklahoman, referring to the nation's second-ranked team.
        Lemons is survived by his wife, Betty Jo; two daughters, Dana Reese of Yukon, Okla., and Jan Smith of Oklahoma City; and four grandchildren.
        During Lemons's second coaching stint at Oklahoma City, the university left the N.C.A.A. and joined the low-profile National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics.
        In March 1990, Lemons, preparing to retire, had a chance to reach 600 career victories when Oklahoma City appeared in the first round of the N.A.I.A. playoffs. But his team lost to Oklahoma Christian, 78-77, on a free throw after a disputed foul.
        ''That foul,'' he told The Associated Press, ''wouldn't have killed a gnat.''
      