
        Pepsi Bethel, a longtime jazz-dance performer, teacher and choreographer, died on Aug. 30 at King's Harbor Multicare Facility in the Bronx. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said Vernel Bagneris, a colleague and friend.
        Mr. Bethel was a dapper, genial presence on the New York vernacular dance scene for four decades. He had learned and perfected a variety of Lindy Hop steps and moves as a very young dancer at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem in the 1930's. In later years his expertise ranged over a wide selection of popular dance forms, among them the cakewalk, boogie, calypso, the Charleston and most of all the virtuoso acrobatic moves of the aerial Lindy, an art that depends on a smooth toss and midair manipulation of the female partner.
        Alfred Bethel was born in Greensboro, N.C. His grandmother gave him his nickname after his favorite drink, and he performed under that name throughout his career. He was self-taught but was taken to vaudeville performances by his family.
        Mr. Bethel performed with the Mura Dehn Jazz Ballet and other companies before founding his own troupe, the Pepsi Bethel Authentic Jazz Dance Theater, in the 1960's. The company performed African, folk, social and African-American dance, offering a rare view of American vernacular dance forms whose vivid traditions are suggested by the names of steps that Mr. Bethel performed or perfected, among them the fishtail itch and tranky-doo. In 1969, the Bethel and Dehn companies were chosen by the United States State Department to perform in nine African countries as cultural emissaries.
        From the 1970's on, Mr. Bethel was variously a choreographer and consultant to revues conceived and directed by Mr. Bagneris, including two productions of ''One Mo' Time,'' and the 1987 ''Staggerlee'' and the 1994 ''Jelly Roll!'' Mr. Bethel staged the revue ''An Evening With Charles Cook and Friends'' in 1984 at Aaron Davis Hall and was a production consultant for ''Sing Hallelujah!,'' a 1987 gospel musical at the Village Gate.
        Mr. Bethel's choreography has been performed by the Jiving Lindy Hoppers, an English group, and the companies of Charles Moore and Joan Miller. In 1980 he was honored as a choreographer in ''Celebration of Men in Dance'' at the Thelma Hill Performing Arts Center in Brooklyn.
        No immediate family members survive.
      