
        Andrew Forge, a painter, critic, teacher and former dean of painting at the Yale School of Art, died on Wednesday in New Milford, Conn. He was 78 and lived in Washington Depot, Conn.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said.
        Over more than 50 years, Mr. Forge remained foremost a painter of perception. In his early work, what interested him was his perception of the world and how to reconcile what he saw with paint on canvas. His inclinations were encouraged by his study with the exacting English painter William Coldstream at the Camberwell School of Art in London.
        But after a creative crisis in 1963, Mr. Forge seemed to have decided that exploring the perception of painting itself was sufficient. Over nearly a decade, he developed a mode of abstraction that related to Monet, Seurat and the Abstract Expressionist Mark Rothko in its emphasis on the sensory effects of color.
        He reduced his formal vocabulary to two small, basic units: tiny dots and short, thin dashes of paint that he called sticks. He applied those elements meticulously, by the thousands and with continual adjustments of shape, color, orientation and density until they coalesced into luminous, optically unstable fields.
        These fields occasionally gave hints of landscapes or figures, but were primarily concerned with their own internal mechanics, which unfolded to the patient viewer with a quiet, riveting lushness. In a New York Times review of Mr. Forge's retrospective at the Yale Center for British Art in 1996, John Russell wrote that ''the whole surface of the canvas is mysteriously alive, composing and recomposing itself as we come to terms with it.''
        Mr. Forge, who was born in Hastingleigh, England, in 1923, was equally well known as a teacher and critic. He taught at the Slade School and then at Goldsmith's in London during the 1950's and 60's.
        Moving to the United States in 1972, he was most prominently associated with Yale and with the New York Studio School, where he taught for nearly 30 years. His writings include books on Paul Klee, Robert Rauschenberg, Monet and Degas (the last two with Robert Gordon). At the time of his death, he was compiling a collection of his essays.
        Mr. Forge's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the artist Ruth Miller; two daughters from his first marriage, Katherine Harrison, of Hastingleigh, and Stella Rayner, of Edinburgh; two stepdaughters, Jessica Elzea Kogel, of Augusta, Ga., and Kathlin Elzea, of Newark, Del.; a stepson, Lucas Elzea, of Vienna; and 11 grandchildren.
      