
        Ikko Tanaka, the Japanese graphic designer whose fusion of Japanese tradition and the International Style contributed a modern sensibility to Japanese poster and publication design, died on Jan. 11 in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Hiroko Sakomura, a colleague in his office.
        When Mr. Tanaka began working in the late 1950's, contemporary Japanese designers were trying to balance respect for the past with the imperatives of a commercially driven industrial society. Mr. Tanaka succeeded in marrying past and present in graphic compositions that were strong and clean, colorful and playful and unerringly precise. He borrowed the simple shapes and patterns of ancient arts and incorporated them into designs that were definitely of his time and place.
        His best-known poster, conceived in 1981 for the dance troupe Nihon Buyo Performance and reused for various purposes, features an abstract version of a geisha. Rather than a classic realistic rendering, Mr. Tanaka created the head and shoulders out of stark geometric forms on a grid: squares and rectangles make up the hair and face. It is typical of Japanese decorative simplicity but surprisingly novel in its reductive angularity. Mr. Tanaka's palette, a vibrant combination of pastels and primaries, was also a synthesis of old and new.
        Many of his most identifiable images pay homage to old representations of Kabuki, while others are more abstract with a Western Op Art flavor.
        ''His work is completely modern yet deeply influenced by Japanese culture,'' said Paul Davis, the poster artist. ''He was a master of the fine art of Japanese calligraphy and an expert with Western typography, which made him unique among his colleagues.''
        Mr. Tanaka further bridged a professional gap between the many experimental Japanese designers and those who devoted themselves to the service of corporations. In addition to his many posters and booklets for cultural organizations, he created logos, package designs and annual reports for Hanae Mori, Issey Miyake and Mazda.
        Mr. Tanaka was born in 1930 in Nara, the first permanent capital of Japan, where as a child he studied art. He moved to Kyoto, where he became involved in modern drama and joined the Atelier-za theatrical study group. There he became acquainted with Kabuki and Hokusai's 19th-century wood block prints.
        In 1963 he established a design studio in Tokyo. By the 1970's he was one of the leaders of the commercial art world as a graphic designer, art director and editor of a series of books on Japanese culture; some, like ''Japanese Style'' and ''Japanese Color,'' were published in the United States. In his books Mr. Tanaka devoted as much energy to materials and production as to design.
        In 1994 he was inducted into the New York Art Directors Club Hall of Fame. His work was the subject of the book ''Ikko Tanaka, Graphic Master'' (1997, Phaidon Press).
        Mr. Tanaka is survived by a brother, Shigenori Tanaka, and a sister, Setsuko Kizawa.
      