
        Dr. David T. Wilkinson, a pioneer in studying microwave radiation left behind by the Big Bang birth of the universe, died on Thursday at Princeton Hospital. He was 67.
        The cause of death was cancer, which he had battled for 18 years, according to Princeton University, where Dr. Wilkinson was a professor of physics.
        From the mid-1960's through the present, Dr. Wilkinson was involved in almost every effort at measuring the faint echoes of the Big Bang, starting with receivers on the top of university buildings, then balloons, and more recently, satellites.
        ''He was the one who pioneered these new methods of studying the universe through radio,'' said Dr. P. James E. Peebles, also a physics professor at Princeton. ''He taught the majority of the leaders in the field.''
        Dr. Wilkinson was a major driving force behind the Cosmic Background Explorer satellite, launched in 1989, which transformed cosmology. The background radiation suffuses all of space; it looks remarkably identical in all parts of the sky. The satellite measurements revealed, for the first time, minuscule fluctuations -- the irregularities that gave rise to galaxies and other larger structures in the universe today.
        He was also the instrument scientist of the Microwave Anisotropy Probe, known as MAP, the successor to the background explorer that is currently collecting more precise information about the fluctuations. Its instruments are 50 times as sensitive and have 50 times the resolution. ''He is the father of MAP,'' said Dr. Lyman A. Page, a professor of physics at Princeton and a member of the MAP team. ''He started the movement to make this satellite a reality.''
        His personality was particularly modest and self-effacing, his colleagues said. His academic résumé -- a single page, double-spaced -- lists only his birthdate and birthplace (May 13, 1935, in Hillsdale, Mich.), his academic degrees (bachelor's, master's and doctorate, all from the University of Michigan, and an honorary degree from the University of Chicago) and his jobs and memberships in professional societies.
        After completing his doctorate, Dr. Wilkinson worked as a lecturer at the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty at Princeton in 1963 as an instructor and a member of the research team of Dr. Robert H. Dicke, who wanted to devise an experiment that could detect signs of the Big Bang. In 1948, Dr. George Gamow, a theoretical physicist, and his colleagues predicted that the Big Bang, the theory that was evolving to describe the origin of the universe, should have left behind radiation.
        In 1965, scientists at Bell Labs beat the Princeton team to the discovery, but Dr. Wilkinson and a colleague confirmed the observation a few months later.
        Over the next three and a half decades, Dr. Wilkinson worked on experiments that provided ever more detail about the background radiation.
        Dr. Wilkinson was an ''imaginative, but also extremely thorough'' scientist, said Dr. Rainer Weiss, a professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''It's a rare combination.''
        Dr. Wilkinson became an assistant professor at Princeton in 1965 and received tenure three years later. He was chairman of the department from 1987 to 1990 and retired this year.
        His other research included measuring the total amount of light produced by all the stars in the observable universe and looking for pulses of laser light put out as beacons by alien civilizations.
        Unlike many senior professors, Dr. Wilkinson remained active in undergraduate education. For many years, he taught the introductory physics classes at Princeton, often arriving to lecture on his motorcycle. ''Sometimes he would bring his dog along, too,'' said Dr. Edward Cheng, a scientist at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center and a former graduate student of Dr. Wilkinson's.
        In 1996, Dr. Wilkinson received the Princeton President's Award for Distinguished Teaching.
        He is survived by his wife, Eunice, of Princeton; a son, Kent, of San Antonio; a daughter, Wendy Gordon of Lambertville, N.J.; three stepchildren, Marla Dowell of Boulder, Colo., Michael Dowell of Chicago and Janice Dowell of Bowling Green, Ohio; and five grandchildren.
      