
        Frankie Albert, the first T-formation quarterback in modern college football as a two-time all-American at Stanford and later a star with the San Francisco 49ers, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Menlo Park, Calif. Albert, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 82.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Martha, said.
        As a sophomore playing tailback in the single wing, Albert was on a 1939 Stanford team that won only one game. But the next season, Clark Shaughnessy left the University of Chicago to become the Stanford coach and installed the T-formation, which had been used only occasionally many years before. It had been revived for the pro game by George Halas's Chicago Bears, featuring Sid Luckman at quarterback.
        Taking over as Stanford's quarterback in a formation that rewarded deception in contrast to the power blocking of the single wing, Albert became an all-American in 1940 and '41. He led Stanford's 1940 team to a 9-0 regular season, a 21-13 victory over Nebraska in the Rose Bowl and a No. 2 national ranking, behind Minnesota.
        Albert was the key man in a superb backfield that included fullback Norm Standlee, later his teammate on the 49ers; Hugh Gallarneau, who went on to play for the Bears; and Pete Kmetovic. Albert orchestrated a T-formation attack that was soon adopted by most college teams.
        Shaughnessy called Albert ''a magician with the ball.''
        ''He was neither strong nor fast,'' Shaughnessy told Esquire magazine in 1943. ''His talents were primarily those of a faker.''
        After serving in the Navy during World War II, Albert joined the 49ers of the new All-America Football Conference in 1946. He was one of the league's stars in its four seasons and shared Most Valuable Player honors in 1948 with Otto Graham, the Cleveland Browns' quarterback, throwing for 29 touchdowns that year.
        Albert was named to the Pro Bowl in 1950, when the 49ers joined the National Football League, and retired after the 1952 season, having thrown for 10,795 yards and 115 touchdowns in seven pro seasons.
        A left-handed passer who was only about 5 feet 10 inches and 165 pounds, Albert used his ball-handling skills in popularizing the bootleg play, in which the quarterback fakes a handoff, then runs wide with the ball hidden on his hip.
        Don Paul, a Los Angeles Rams linebacker who was among the many defenders frustrated by Albert's deception, likened him to Fran Tarkenton, the quarterback of a later generation who was also known for elusiveness.
        ''At least with Tarkenton, those guys knew Francis had the ball,'' Paul once told The Los Angeles Times. ''With Frankie Albert we weren't always sure. Then he would stand there and laugh at you.''
        After playing one season with Calgary of the Canadian Football League following his retirement from the N.F.L., Albert was a broadcaster, assistant coach and scout for the 49ers, then served as their head coach from 1956 to 1958. His 49ers tied the Lions for the Western Conference title in 1957, but lost the playoff game to Detroit, the eventual league champion.
        He was named to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1956.
        In addition to his wife, Albert is survived by three daughters, Nancy James, of Bend, Ore., Jane Willens, of Palo Alto, and Terry Levin, of San Francisco; and seven grandchildren.
      