
        Cardinal Lucas Moreira Neves, one of Latin America's leading Roman Catholic figures, who was once considered a contender to succeed Pope John Paul II, died in Rome on Sunday. He was 76.
        A conservative yet conciliatory voice, Cardinal Neves was the most prominent Catholic primate in his native Brazil, nominally the world's largest Roman Catholic country, with 80 percent of the population of 165 million describing themselves as Catholic.
        He rose from his first appointment in 1950 as a priest in a small parish in Minas Gerais to some of the Vatican's most important positions. The pope made him prefect of the Congregation of Bishops and president of the Pontifical Commission for Latin America in 1998.
        Until complications from diabetes forced his resignation from the formal Vatican hierarchy in 2000, Cardinal Neves was often mentioned as a possible successor to the pope. His access to the Vatican's high echelons was considered an important step forward for Catholic clergy in Latin America and other parts of the developing world.
        He worked for more than a dozen years in the Vatican, and in 1988 the pope named him cardinal of São Salvador da Bahia, a large city in northeastern Brazil. The move was part of an effort by the Vatican to reassert control over several factions of Brazil's Catholic hierarchy.
        Cardinal Neves was favorably viewed in the Vatican for his conciliatory yet firm approach in checking clergymen who had embraced left-leaning liberation theology or shown acceptance of African-derived faiths, like Candomblé, which combine the identities of African deities and Roman Catholic saints.
        He took a traditionalist stance on these and many other issues, for instance expressing his vocal opposition in 1998 to a lingerie advertising campaign that supported the legalization of abortion in Brazil. He once called Brazil's steamy contemporary version of Carnival a ''modern Sodom and Gomorrah.''
        The unusually vigorous emergence in Brazil since the 1970's of social-justice groups that view Roman Catholicism as a vital conduit of ideas was thought to have tempered the traditionalism of Cardinal Neves and other leading Brazilian church officials.
        He was also known for his negotiating abilities and a willingness to bend as president of Brazil's National Bishops Conference, a position he attained in 1995.
        Support by the conference of the Landless Workers Movement, an important land-reform group, led to differences with the government of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.
        Cardinal Neves was born in 1925, the first of 10 children. His father, Telêmaco Vítor das Neves, was a shoemaker in the town of São João del Rei in the central Brazilian state of Minas Gerais. His family was of both Portuguese and African ancestry.
        An erudite presence in Brazil's cultural scene, Cardinal Neves was a prolific author of newspaper columns, theater criticism and books, efforts that earned him membership in the Brazilian Academy of Letters.
      