
        Uzi Gal, the Israeli armaments expert who invented the widely used 9-millimeter submachine gun called the Uzi, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 79.
        He had cancer, Agence France-Presse reported.
        In 1976, Mr. Gal retired from Israel's government-owned weapons-manufacturing company, Israeli Military Industries, which had employed him, and moved to Philadelphia to pursue medical treatment for his daughter, who later died.
        He invented the Uzi in the 1950's. An easily loaded compact gun weighing only nine pounds, it proved accurate, reliable and efficient, and is now in the arsenals of armies, secret-service organizations, bodyguards and the like in a number of countries. More than 1.5 million Uzis have been produced.
        ''It's a cheap weapon, easy to handle, with great fire power, extremely reliable and with a range of about 150 to 200 meters,'' said Raphael Eitan, a former chief of staff of the Israeli Army.
        Mr. Gal studied mechanical engineering while he was imprisoned by the British administrators of his part of Palestine in the mid-1940's after they found that he had a firearm.
        He saw combat in the 1948 Arab-Israeli war, to which he brought a homemade submachine gun. Afterward he went to officers training school. He went on to design the Uzi, which impressed army leaders. By 1956 it was being manufactured by Israeli Military Industries, whose management named it for him, against his own wishes.
        In 1958, the Netherlands decided to acquire Uzis for its army. Other Euiropean countries soon did likewise.
        Selling Uzis in other countries was highly lucrative for Israel, but not for him. As a state employee, he did not become rich.
        In 1974, the army began substituting another weapon, the Galil assault rifle, for the Uzi. Mr. Gal's retirement came two years later.
        He was born Uziel Gal in Germany, immigrated with his family to the British-administered part of Palestine in 1936 and grew up on a collective farm near Haifa.
        Mr. Gal, a widower, is survived by a son, Iddo, and a brother.
      