
        Stanley R. Greenberg, a television screenwriter who shaped the docudrama format with his meticulously researched scripts for ''Pueblo,'' ''The Missiles of October'' and other dramas, died Aug. 25 at his home in Kensington, Calif. He was 74.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Barry Richman.
        ''Pueblo,'' originally written for the theater and first performed by the Arena Stage in Washington, traced a United States spy ship's surrender to North Korea in 1968, and the Navy's inquiries of the ship's captain, Cmdr. Lloyd M. Bucher. Mr. Greenberg strove to make the drama as accurate a retelling of history as possible. When it was broadcast on ABC on March 29, 1973, viewers were told that every name was real and that every action was ''based on fact.''
        In an interview with The New York Times, Mr. Greenberg explained, ''When a name is used, it is the name of a real person; when a synthesized character is introduced, every action he performs, every word he utters is based upon an actual statement and an actual situation.''
        ''Pueblo'' won several Emmys and a Peabody Award.
        A similar technique was used for ''The Missiles of October'' in 1974, also on ABC, about the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. Among Mr. Greenberg's other docudramas were ''The Silence'' (1974), about the ostracism of a West Point cadet accused of cheating on an exam; ''Blind Ambition'' (1979), an eight-hour mini-series about the Watergate scandal; and ''F.D.R.: The Last Year'' (1980), starring Jason Robards.
        He also wrote the screenplays for the movies ''Skyjacked,'' in 1972, and ''Soylent Green,'' an adaptation of Harry Harrison's novel about overpopulation, in 1973.
        Mr. Greenberg was born in Chicago, served in World War II and graduated from Brown University. He got his start in television writing for the series ''The Defenders'' and ''The Nurses,'' and wrote the 1972 television movie ''Welcome Home, Johnny Bristol,'' about a soldier, played by Martin Landau, who cannot find his hometown after being released from a prison camp in Vietnam.
        He is survived by his wife, Tamara Robbin Greenberg; three daughters, Ruth Hauser and Rachel Greenberg of Berkeley, Calif., and Robin Greenberg of Kensington; six grandchildren; and a brother, Herbert, of Peoria, Ill.
      