
        Cliff Gorman, a stage, film and television actor who won a Tony Award for his dynamic portrayal of Lenny Bruce in the Broadway play ''Lenny,'' died last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Gayle, his only survivor.
        In ''Lenny,'' which opened at the Brooks Atkinson Theater in May 1971, Mr. Gorman played Bruce with the same intensity and caustic wit that made the controversial, foulmouthed comedian's name a countercultural byword.
        The play, written by Julian Barry and directed by Tom O'Horgan (who also directed ''Hair,'' which was then running at the Biltmore Theater, across West 47th Street), followed Bruce's nightclub career through run-ins with the police and the courts, and put the same language on a Broadway stage that had gotten Bruce -- who died in 1966 -- arrested in nightclubs just a few years earlier.
        In a review in The New York Times, Clive Barnes said: ''Mr. Gorman doesn't look much like Bruce, and he doesn't even sound much like Bruce. But he does have a fantastic gift for mimicry, an absolutely driven style that hammers and hammers home to the audience, relentless, mocking and acerbic.''
        The performance won Mr. Gorman a Tony for best leading actor in 1972, but it was not his first dramatic accolade. Four years earlier he had won an Obie Award and became an instant celebrity for portraying a flamboyantly effeminate gay character named Emory in the Off Broadway play ''The Boys in the Band.'' He also played the role in the 1970 film version.
        Mr. Gorman was nominated for another Tony in 1978 for Neil Simon's semi-autobiographical ''Chapter Two,'' in which he played Leo, the pushy brother of the Simon analogue, a novelist named George Schneider.
        Cliff Gorman was born in Queens and attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan. He received a bachelor's degree in education from New York University and was an original member of the Jerome Robbins American Theater Lab.
        Mr. Gorman's film credits include Otto Preminger's ''Rosebud'' (1975), with Peter O'Toole and Richard Attenborough; Irwin Winkler's ''Night and the City'' from 1992, with Robert De Niro and Jessica Lange; and Jim Jarmusch's ''Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai,'' in 1999. His frequent television appearances include playing Abbie Hoffman in a 1970 British program about the Chicago Eight trial, and guest spots on ''Law and Order,'' ''Murder, She Wrote'' and ''Police Story.''
      