
        Peter R. Barton, who worked closely with John C. Malone to found Tele-Communications Inc., which grew into one of the nation's largest cable operators, died at his home on Sunday of stomach cancer. He was 51 and lived in Denver.
        Mr. Barton had a diverse career that began in politics and moved into communications, where he ultimately ran Liberty Media, the cable programming company that is controlled by Mr. Malone.
        He retired from Liberty in 1997 to start a private investment firm.
        After graduating from Columbia University in 1972, he took a year off to become a professional skier. He then turned to politics, and, in 1973, was named deputy secretary to Gov. Hugh Carey of New York.
        Mr. Barton decided to move into business and received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School in 1979. Three years later he joined Tele-Communications, then a fledgling cable company, where he worked closely with Mr. Malone to expand the business by acquiring cable franchises across the country. In 1986, he became deeply immersed in the founding of Cable Value Network, the home shopping channel that ultimately became known as QVC.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1996, Mr. Barton said that after graduating from Harvard, he went to a library and researched the most interesting people to work for. ''I sent a direct-mail piece to 322 people, saying, 'Would you consider hiring me for 90 days,' '' he said in the interview.
        He had 125 responses, including one from Mr. Malone, who was in the process of building a company of cable holdings. Mr. Barton liked the concept and joined him.
        When Mr. Malone decided to spin off Tele-Communications' cable programming investments from its cable systems into Liberty Media, Mr. Barton was named president of that operation, which was controlled by Mr. Malone.
        They were an odd couple. Mr. Barton was a political liberal while Mr. Malone is a conservative, and Mr. Barton was far more outgoing than his boss.
        Referring to his role as Mr. Malone's top lieutenant during the 1996 interview, Mr. Barton said that he belonged to what he called the ''squadron of the second bananas.'' But his career was marked by an ability to work closely, and successfully, with hard-charging men, and he would frequently handle the details of some of Mr. Malone's toughest and longest negotiations.
        Mr. Barton said in the interview that he hoped he would be doing something else within the decade. And a year later he left Liberty, formed his own investment firm and become an adjunct professor of graduate business strategy at Daniels College of Business at the University of Denver.
        Mr. Barton is survived by his wife, Laura Perry Barton; and three children, Kate, Jeffrey and Christopher, all of Denver; his mother, Hanna Jane Barton, of Bethesda, Md.; and two brothers, John A. Barton, of Bethesda, and Thomas W. Barton, of Harbeson, Del.
      