
        Rolf Fjelde, one of the leading translators of Ibsen's plays into English, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 76.
        Mr. Fjelde was also a teacher, poet and playwright, but he was best known for his work with Ibsen. His fluent and authoritative translations of 12 major prose plays (including ''A Doll's House'' and ''Hedda Gabler'') are regularly performed at theaters throughout the United States. They are, the critic and director Harold Clurman said, ''the truest to the original and unexcelled for theatrical performance.'' He also translated the verse play ''Peer Gynt,'' which was staged with great success in 1981 at the C. S. C. Repertory Off Broadway.
        In an essay, Mr. Fjelde quoted Ibsen on the art of translation: ''I believe that a translator should employ the style which the original author would have used if he had written in the language of those who are to read him in translation.''
        ''In spite of these clear directives,'' Mr. Fjelde said, ''Ibsen translation, even down to the present day, has too frequently suffered from a stiff and hobbled diction -- or, certainly no better, a cavalier freedom that has cut or padded the text.''
        For Mr. Fjelde, it was important that Ibsen speak directly to a contemporary American audience. As he said: ''We need our translations of the great classics drawn from our roots and reflecting our own speech rhythms, idiom, nuances of meaning. Enlightened choice of superior native renderings of the landmarks of world drama is a subtle but crucial factor in the struggle for an American theater of true distinction.''
        He was critical of some translations from the past, and of freehand adaptations, calling them ''larceny by pastiche.''
        In describing his own approach, he emphasized his command of what he called ''Ibsenese,'' his familiarity with the world and creativity of the playwright. Mr. Fjelde (the name is pronounced FYELL-dah), who was born in Brooklyn, was proud of his Norwegian heritage -- and of his theatrical background. ''I speak the language,'' he said. ''I've been a playwright and a poet. I've worked with actors for years. I've delved into the Norwegian culture of Ibsen's period. And that's what is necessary to translate.''
        On the book jacket of his volume of the major prose plays is a photograph of a bust of Ibsen, sculptured from life by Jacob Fjelde, Mr. Fjelde's grandfather. Jacob Fjelde had emigrated to the United States, and returned to Norway in 1885 for this project. Ibsen based the character of the sculptor in ''The Lady From the Sea'' partly on him.
        Mr. Fjelde graduated from Yale and Columbia Universities and was a founding editor of The Yale Poetry Review and Poetry New York. For more than 40 years he taught drama at Pratt Institute and also taught at the Juilliard School. In 1956 he translated ''The Wild Duck'' for a production at Pratt, and so began his work with Ibsen. He was the founding president of the Ibsen Society of America and the editor of its newsletter. In 1991, he was awarded Norwegian Royal Medal of St. Olaf.
        Mr. Fjelde is survived by his wife, Cristel; a daughter, Michelle Andrea Fjelde-Burke, of Charlestown, Mass.; two sons, Eric and Christopher, both of Hartsdale, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
        In his introduction to Ibsen's complete major prose plays, Mr. Fjelde wrote: ''Ibsen is the creator of his inimitable universe. One knows in Ibsen the rooms and the landscapes, the light and the weather,'' adding that they have ''the haunting immediacy of the country of one's childhood.'' Then, referring to the inexhaustible possibility of performance, he said, ''To interpret these plays is to rediscover life.''
      