
        Norman Atkins, a baritone whose broad range included opera, musical theater and Jewish liturgical music, died on Jan. 13 in Hackensack, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mahwah, N.J.
        He died of complications after heart surgery, said his daughter, Andrea Atkins Hessekiel.
        Mr. Atkins was a member of the New York City Opera from 1959 to 1962 and sang in many musical theater productions, including ''The Most Happy Fella.'' He was also a cantor emeritus at Metropolitan Synagogue in Manhattan.
        His career began late but auspiciously. While studying music and working in the factory of a lens manufacturer in Manhattan, he gave his first concerts in 1947. The next year, when he was 29, he won a contest sponsored by the Jewish Welfare Board; the prize was a joint debut recital in Carnegie Hall.
        The concert, on Jan. 2, 1949, was well received. A review in The New York Times the next day said that he had ''a pleasing, resonant voice and a discriminating musical intelligence to guide its use.''
        That appearance quickly led to a busy singing career. Kurt Weill chose him for the role of Frank Maurrant in ''Street Scene,'' which he sang in concert performances around the country. Throughout the 1950's Mr. Atkins sang with the Baltimore Civic Opera and on NBC's opera broadcasts on television. He appeared in concerts with major orchestras, including the New York and Los Angeles Philharmonics and the Chicago Symphony.
        In 1959 he sang the lead role in a revival of ''The Most Happy Fella'' with the New York City Light Opera Company at City Center and repeated the role six years later.
        Also in 1959 he was chosen by Morton Baum, the chairman of City Center, to be the cantor at the new Metropolitan Synagogue of New York on East 35th Street. Mr. Atkins served as cantor until 1987, balancing his duties with a busy singing career outside the synagogue.
        At City Opera he sang Escamillo in ''Carmen'' and the title role in ''The Golem'' by Abraham Ellstein. Among his musical-theater credits were ''Silk Stockings'' with Don Ameche and the role of Tevye in ''Fiddler on the Roof'' at Jones Beach.
        His wife, the former Mildred Baum, whom he married in 1942, died in 1995.
        Besides his daughter, he is survived by two sons, Jay, of Wyckoff, N.J., and Bruce, of Woodcliff Lake, N.J.; and six grandchildren.
      