
        William Phillips, the co-founder and longtime editor of Partisan Review, the forum for the brilliant and contentious stable of writers who became known as the New York Intellectuals, died yesterday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 94.
        Partisan Review's circulation never exceeded 15,000, but Mr. Phillips and his co-editor, Philip Rahv, kept it at the forefront of the great ideological and cultural currents of their time with an extraordinary knack for discovering hungry and talented writers and critics who were to make an indelible mark on American culture and politics.
        Lionel Trilling, Mary McCarthy, Irving Howe, Dwight Macdonald, the art historian Meyer Schapiro, and the critics Clement Greenberg, Harold Rosenberg and F. W. Dupee, little-known mavericks and rebels when they began to contribute to Partisan Review, helped make it the nation's most influential literary and political journal in the years immediately before and after World War II.
        P.R., as it was known to aficionados, published many famous short stories, including Bernard Malamud's ''Magic Barrel'' and Isaac Bashevis Singer's ''Gimpel the Fool'' (his first in English, in a translation by a young writer named Saul Bellow). The magazine also introduced American readers to existentialism and to Susan Sontag's landmark cultural essay, ''Notes on Camp.''
        In its pages, Greenberg gave Abstract Expressionism its first serious attention, Allen Tate and Robert Penn Warren spread the ideas of the New Criticism, and European writers and intellectuals like Hannah Arendt, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Albert Camus and Arthur Koestler were able to reach an American audience. Robert Lowell, Norman Mailer, Elizabeth Hardwick, James Baldwin and Norman Podhoretz were among the young Americans whose early work appeared in this little magazine.
        ''We were outsiders beginning something new and had no idea how long it would last or how important it would be,'' Mr. Phillips said in a 1997 interview. ''I finally realized what was marginal then has become fairly central to the culture.''
        Mr. Phillips was the quiet half of the Partisan Review's ruling pair, and his partner, Rahv, a brilliant editor and critic, took much of the credit for the magazine's luster. But if the rigorous but overbearing Rahv, who died in 1972, was the spirit of the magazine, Mr. Phillips proved the more durable editor, guiding Partisan Review for more than 60 years.
        ''He kept it together, and he kept it going,'' said Edith Kurzweil, the magazine's current editor, who married Mr. Phillips in 1995 and is his sole immediate survivor. ''His standards were extremely high, and he had taste and intelligence. It's easy enough to ask established people to write if you have enough money to pay them. It's much harder judging a new talent as a good writer.''
        Mr. Phillips, a bohemian son of Eastern European immigrants, was a Marxist when he and Rahv founded the magazine in 1934 in a Greenwich Village loft. He continued to read manuscripts into his 90's, after the magazine had lost much of its influence and was dependent on university largesse.
        He insisted on engaging Partisan Review in the great ideological debates: the battle between Trotskyites and Stalinists in the 1930's, the backlash against Communism in the late 40's and 50's, and the 70's disputes between neoconservatives and the dwindling corps of deep-dyed liberals. The social historian Christopher Lasch said Mr. Phillips and Rahv ''earned from American intellectuals a lasting debt of gratitude by exposing the totalitarian character of Soviet Communism.''
        As an occasional writer for the magazine, Mr. Phillips was overshadowed by his contributors. He was so able to see a question's many sides that he found it difficult to chisel a tidy position.
        ''That fearful thing -- a writer's block -- had descended upon him and would not relinquish its grip,'' William Barrett, the philosopher and editor at Partisan Review, wrote of Mr. Phillips in his 1982 memoir, ''The Truants.''
        Yet Mr. Phillips's deficiencies enabled him to step out of the limelight and manage his crew of brilliant, cranky polemicists who felt comfortable discoursing on Trotsky in one issue and Tolstoy in the next.
        Mr. Phillips was a kind-hearted man who revealed his resentments with a dry, sometimes Yiddish-flavored wit. He once said that the woman who could abide Rahv's personality would have to become his ''alter-Iago.'' Another time, he called Rahv a ''manic-impressive'' and said there would be no point in his undergoing psychoanalysis: ''Most of us, under analysis, break down and admit our shortcomings,'' he said. ''Philip would break down and confess he was a great man.''
        Their relationship became what Barrett once described as a ''strained and bickering marriage'' held together by a beloved child, Partisan Review.
        Unlike others at the magazine, Mr. Phillips did not allow ideology to overcome common sense. Macdonald resigned from Partisan Review because he wanted it to be more political and because he opposed American entry into World War II, thinking that socialism might emerge victorious in a war among Europe's capitalist societies; Mr. Phillips and Rahv recognized that Hitler's defeat was paramount.
        Fortified in later years by endowed positions at institutions like Harvard and Columbia, Partisan Review's early writers found an economic comfort they could not have imagined in the cold-water flats of their youth. Yet, as their memoirs disclose, those days of wrestling about art and politics remained the most rewarding of their lives.
        ''I remember Camus arriving in America and calling us first thing, thinking he was meeting people who were more important than we were at the time,'' Mr. Phillips reminisced in 1997 when an anthology he edited, ''60 Years of Great Fiction From Partisan Review'' (Partisan Review Press), was published. ''I miss being in the midst of a community of so many talented, intelligent people. You were marginal in terms of the main culture, but you felt a tougher intellectual life. The talk! The talk was exciting.''
        William Phillips was born Nov. 14, 1907 in East Harlem. His father, who changed the family name from Litvinsky, was a failed lawyer from Odessa whom his son once described as ''a luftmensch,'' literally ''a person of air.'' His mother was a chronically depressed hypochondriac who often consulted quacks. She once separated from her husband and took their son back to her native Kiev for three years before returning.
        ''I learned early to cut out, to turn into myself, as though what was going on was a psychodrama in which I was a suffering spectator, a victim,'' Mr. Phillips wrote in his memoir, ''A Partisan View'' (Stein & Day, 1983).
        Growing up poor in the heavily Jewish East Bronx, he attended City College, where he studied with the legendary philosopher Morris Raphael Cohen and also encountered T. S. Eliot's essay collection ''The Sacred Wood,'' which, he said, sent him ''swimming in the exotic waters of modernism.''
        While taking graduate courses in literature at New York University, he met Edna Greenblatt, whom he married in 1933 and whose salary as a high school teacher helped support them in rougher years. Like more than a few Depression-era couples, they made a deliberate decision not to have children. She died in 1985.
        The Depression, Mr. Phillips once wrote, destroyed his ''faith in the idea of a future'' but stirred his interest in politics, particularly Marxism. He joined the John Reed Club, a Greenwich Village organization of writers and artists that was supported by the Communist Party.
        ''It was a time of sense and nonsense, idealism and cynicism,'' he wrote 30 years later, adding it ''was possible to believe simultaneously in democracy and dictatorship.''
        Although he rose to secretary of the club, he was put off by crude party-line exhortations and agitprop aesthetics. He dreamed of a magazine to express the subtler distinctions of his own views, and found a congenial dreamer in Rahv, an immigrant from Russia who was receptive to avant-garde culture and disenchanted with writing for the Communist journal The New Masses. When an English lecturer packed the house at a club event, they had the $800 windfall they needed to start Partisan Review as the official organ of the John Reed Club.
        ''We were cocky kids driven by a grandiose idea of launching a new literary movement, combining the best of the new radicalism with the innovative energy of modernism,'' Mr. Phillips once recalled.
        But they were constantly pressured to subordinate literary standards to Soviet ideology. When they broke away from the club after nine issues, they were branded agents of imperialism, and longtime friends stopped talking to them.
        They were fortunate to recruit Dupee, the literary editor of The New Masses; his Yale classmate, the argumentative Macdonald; and their brilliant friend Mary McCarthy. Dupee brought in a backer, an abstract painter with an independent income, George L. K. Morris, who supplied the $1,500 to get the first independent issue off the press in December 1937.
        The journal, the editors promised, would be devoted to ''the modern sensibility in literature and the arts and to a radical consciousness in social and political matters.'' It was a brave manifesto because they were intent on attacking Stalin and the Soviet Union from the standpoint of a purer Marxism and an advancing avant-garde culture when modernism was under attack for not advancing the interests of the masses.
        The first issue was auspicious. As well as Delmore Schwartz's famous story, ''In Dreams Begin Responsibilities'' (about his parents' marriage), it included a poem by Wallace Stevens, essays by Lionel Abel and Edmund Wilson, and reviews by Lionel Trilling and Sidney Hook.
        The writers drawn to Partisan Review formed a discernible world that some compared to an American Bloomsbury. It was inhabited by erudite thinkers who hung out in Stewart's Cafeteria in Sheridan Square and enlivened parties with luminous conversations, bitter feuds and talk of torrid love affairs. The atmosphere was so ''pervasively Jewish,'' Barrett wrote, that he tended to forget he was ''not a Jew after all.''
        In its heyday, mostly as a quarterly, the magazine published landmark essays like Leslie Fiedler's ''Come Back to the Raft Ag'in, Huck Honey,'' which drew attention to the issues of race and homosexual overtones in American literature; Greenberg's ''Avant-Garde and Kitsch''; and Macdonald's ''Mass Cult and Mid-Cult.'' In politics, it remained consistently anti-Stalinist and in 1946 published a blistering editorial against left-wing thinkers at The New Republic and The Nation, calling them a ''Fifth Column'' that was ''licking Stalin's boots.''
        The McCarthy era presented a difficult test, which Lillian Hellman said Mr. Phillips failed by not defending her and other writers when they were attacked by the House Un-American Activities Committee. Mr. Phillips countered that Partisan Review did oppose McCarthyism in several editorials, but argued that Hellman and others did not deserve a defense because they were silent when countless Soviet intellectuals were arrested and tortured by Stalin.
        By the 1960's and 70's, Partisan Review's best writers had moved on, and Rahv had let most of the burdens of editing the magazine fall on Mr. Phillips. In 1965, when the board decided to list Mr. Phillips as editor-in-chief, Rahv sued for control.
        ''I do not believe there has ever been a lawsuit about a nonprofit literary magazine, and only an intransigent revolutionary mind, deeply immersed in the tradition of Marxism, could have thought up such a parody of capitalist property relations,'' Mr. Phillips wrote.
        Rahv won the right to see manuscripts, but in 1969 he resigned to start his own magazine. Partisan Review was then published under the auspices of Rutgers University, which provided Mr. Phillips with office space and a professorship in the English department. In 1978, Rutgers canceled the arrangement, and Mr. Phillips found a home for the magazine at Boston University.
        In later years, Mr. Phillips tried several times to recreate the enchanted intellectual world he knew, bringing together warring partisans like Howe, Sontag, Lionel and Diana Trilling, and Norman Podhoretz. But at one soiree, after Donald Barthelme attacked Lionel Trilling's novel, and Diana Trilling retorted by savaging Barthelme's work, Mr. Phillips understood his task.
        ''It was clear,'' he said, ''that I was trying to mate lambs and wolves.''
      