
        Dr. Robert E. Apfel, a professor and engineer who designed pioneering studies that examined the physics of liquids and saw his results applied to areas as diverse as the manufacture of cosmetics and the cleanup of environmental oil spills, died Aug. 1 in New Haven. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer, according to Yale, where Dr. Apfel was on the faculty for more than three decades.
        He devoted much of his career to the study of liquids. In the early 90's, experiments he designed were performed during two missions of the space shuttle Columbia as part of the United States' first and second Microgravity Laboratory programs.
        Each experiment examined the effects of materials that reduce the surface tension of water, called surfactants, on the behavior of individual drops of liquid. Because of the space shuttle's low-gravity conditions, scientists were able to test theoretical models of surfactant behavior in ways that are not possible on earth.
        Dr. Apfel helped develop a technique, known as acoustic levitation, for using sound waves to suspend drops of liquid in the air and used the method in his experiments to look at the molecular forces acting in the surface layer of water drops.
        Dr. Apfel also worked on ways to use sound waves to identify the parts of different materials. In one study, he and his team were able to use ultrasound to probe a sample of tissue and measure the amounts of water, fat and protein contained in it.
        Dr. Apfel was a former president of the Acoustical Society of America. An avid writer and poet, Dr. Apfel started the society's electronic journal Acoustics Research Letters Online, which he edited.
        At Yale he was chairman of the engineering departments from 1987 to 1990.
        Born in New York City, Robert Edmund Apfel earned his undergraduate degree from Tufts University and his Ph.D. from Harvard.
        During his career, he published more than 120 scientific articles and received numerous awards, including the acoustical society's highest honor in 2002 and an award from the American Institute of Physics in 1971 for his fundamental work on the properties of liquids.
        He is survived by his wife of 34 years, Nancy Howe Apfel; a son, Darren, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Alison Apfel of Brighton, Mass.; a brother, Rick, of Charlotte, N.C.; and two nieces.
      