
        Aaron L. Danzig, a lawyer who served as counsel to the losing side in Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins, the landmark 1938 Supreme Court case that limited the power of the federal courts, died in New York City on Sept. 10. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan.
        Until recently, he had been a practicing lawyer with the firm of Brown, Raysman, Millstein, Felder & Steiner.
        In the case, Mr. Danzig represented a New York man whose arm had been severed in an accident in Pennsylvania. Because Pennsylvania courts required proof of ''willful or wanton'' negligence on the part of the railroad for a client to recover damages, Mr. Danzig brought suit in federal court instead. Applying a looser definition of negligence found in federal decisions, the jury sided with Mr. Danzig and awarded his client $30,000.
        The appeal reached the Supreme Court, with the railroad arguing that the case should have been decided according to Pennsylvania law. Mr. Danzig wrote the brief on behalf of the plaintiff.
        The Supreme Court agreed with the railroad and overturned the jury decision.
        Writing for the majority in one of his most famous opinions, Justice Louis D. Brandeis rejected the notion of federal common law, that is, law based on previous federal court decisions. Finding no mention of it in the Constitution, he reasoned that federal courts must apply state law in civil cases except when those laws conflict with acts of Congress or with the Constitution.
        The case resulted in a significant shift of power to state courts and helped discourage ''forum shopping'' by litigants. It also had the effect of putting Mr. Danzig's firm, which was working for its client on a contingency basis, out of business.
        After World War II, Mr. Danzig formed Nemeroff, Jelline, Danzig & Paley, a New York firm specializing in corporate and labor law. At that firm, which merged with Dow, Lohnes in the 1980's, he was instrumental in encouraging American support for the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. He was also an active supporter of the American Association for the United Nations and a president of the Federation of the Handicapped.
        Aaron Leon Danzig was born on Sept. 9, 1913, in Newark. He graduated from Columbia College in 1933 and received his professional degree from the university's law school in 1935. He also received a master's degree in taxation from New York University's law school.
        His first wife, Elinor, died in 1954. He is survived by his wife, Gwen; his son, Richard, who was secretary of the Navy in the Clinton administration; his daughter, Jill; a sister, Frieda Berkeley; a brother, Monroe; and four grandchildren.
        Like his most notable client, Mr. Danzig was deprived of the use of an arm. Contracting polio in childhood, he devised ways of doing basic activities like tying shoes and driving a manual-shift car, publishing his results in a handbook.
      