
        Howard Thomas Odum, a founder of the modern science of ecology and an influential voice in the restoration of the Everglades, died on Wednesday at a hospice here. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, The Gainesville Sun said.
        In six decades as a professor of environmental sciences at a succession of universities, Dr. Odum pioneered research into ecosystems and helped integrate ecology and economics. His research, often conducted with his older brother, Eugene, an ecologist at the University of Georgia, who died on Aug. 10 at 88, led to the formation of many fields of science, including systems ecology, ecological economics and ecological engineering.
        In 1987, the brothers received the Crafoord Prize, the most prestigious award in ecological sciences, from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.
        Howard Odum, who founded the Center for Wetlands at the University of Florida, played a central role in environmental projects in that state. His study of the ecology of South Florida in the 1970's, financed by the state and the federal Department of the Interior, anticipated much of the Everglades restoration that is under way.
        Dr. Odum earned his doctorate in zoology from Yale in 1951. He taught at Florida, Duke, the University of Texas, the University of Puerto Rico and the University of North Carolina before returning to Florida in 1970.
        He wrote 15 books and more than 300 scientific papers. His most recent book, ''A Prosperous Way Down'' (2001), written with his wife, Elisabeth C. Odum, discusses the prospects for a prosperous future as supplies of fossil fuels dwindle. A revised edition of his 1971 book ''Environment, Power and Society'' is to be published next year.
        Besides his wife, of Gainesville, Dr. Odum is survived by two daughters, Ann Odum of Gainesville and Mary O. Logan of Anchorage; a sister, Mary Frances Schinhan of Chapel Hill, N.C.; four stepchildren; a granddaughter; and nine step-grandchildren.
      