
        Dean Riesner, who began his movie career as a toddler acting with Charlie Chaplin and went on to become a seasoned scriptwriter who dreamed up some of Clint Eastwood's tough-guy lines, died Aug. 18 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        Mr. Riesner worked mostly on feature films and in television and was known as a script doctor, the term for a writer who specializes in repairing troublesome screenplays, often without screen credit. Yet it was a film short, ''Bill and Coo,'' that brought him the industry's highest honor -- an Academy Award in 1948 for special achievement. Written and directed by Mr. Riesner, the film was named for the avian lead actors in a town called Chirpendale who seek to ward off an evil crow.
        Mr. Riesner often contributed to Eastwood films, but the Hollywood penchant for putting a script through multiple rewrites sometimes made it difficult to prove who wrote what. Mr. Riesner contended that he had thought up Mr. Eastwood's famous line, ''Go ahead, make my day,'' for the 1976 movie ''The Enforcer,'' in which it was not used. Mr. Eastwood uttered it onscreen seven years later in ''Sudden Impact,'' a movie on which Mr. Riesner did not work.
        Another famous line came in ''Dirty Harry,'' a 1971 film for which Mr. Riesner rewrote the script. Later, another writer, John Milius, came in to again rework the script. Both men have publicly claimed credit for the line.
        It occurs when ''Dirty'' Harry Callahan, the character played by Mr. Eastwood, appears at the scene of a foiled bank robbery. Casually eating a hot dog, he takes out his gun and picks off the scattering felons until one remains.
        Grunting out his words, Callahan says: ''Uh-huh. I know what you're thinking. Did he fire six shots or five? Well, to tell you the truth, I forgot myself in all this excitement.
        ''But being as this is the .44 magnum, the most powerful handgun in the world, and could blow your head clean off, you have to ask yourself one question: 'Do I feel lucky?' Well, do you, punk?''
        Dean Franklin Riesner was born Nov. 3, 1918, in Manhattan. His father, Charles, was a vaudevillian who became a prolific writer and director, beginning with Keystone Kops movies.
        Charles put his son to work as an actor almost before he could walk, casting him as a peeping Tom peering into the women's room of a bathhouse. After Charles Riesner went to work with Charlie Chaplin as an actor, gag man and assistant director, Dean, then 3, was cast in ''The Pilgrim,'' in which Mr. Chaplin played an escaped convict pretending to be the new preacher in town.
        Mr. Riesner attended Beverly Hills High School and several military schools and the University of California at Los Angeles.
        Connections got him a writing job on ''The Fighting 69th'' in 1940. It starred Pat O'Brien and James Cagney, and Mr. Riesner, at 19, got screen credit.
        After service in the Coast Guard in World War II, he resumed his career as a writer as well as a director of numerous television shows.
        Mr. Riesner's wife, Marie, died several years ago. There are no immediate survivors.
      