
        Igor Kipnis, the virtuoso harpsichordist whose busy concert recording career made him the instrument's most ardent cheerleader,  died on Wednesday at his Connecticut home. He was 71.
        He had been suffering from cancer, according to the agency that managed his career, Marilyn Gilbert Artists Management in Toronto.
        The harpsichord ''surprises people,'' Mr. Kipnis told an interviewer in 1986. ''They expect it to be wearing a wig and belonging in somebody's attic. I try to bring it down from the attic or lead people up to the attic.'' On that occasion he took it in his van to Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., for a lunchtime concert in the cafeteria, playing music from the 1500's and onward, including ragtime and pop.
        For several years in the 1960's, Mr. Kipnis, son of the Metropolitan Opera bass Alexander Kipnis, was the host of ''The Age of Baroque'' on WQXR radio in New York. ''It's one of the most rewarding things I've ever done, trying to convince people who aren't into the harpsichord that it is worthwhile,'' he said.
        Proficient, too, on clavichord and fortepiano, he also performed in later years on the modern piano. In 1995 he formed a duo with Karen Kushner, a New York pianist, playing four-hand music in concerts and  school programs.
        Igor Kipnis was born on Sept. 27, 1930, in Berlin. His father was singing with the Berlin State Opera at the time, and before turning 8 Mr. Kipnis had traveled widely with his parents. Although a Jew, Alexander Kipnis remained a favored performer in Germany during the rise of Naziism. Using a ruse -- temporarily straining his voice -- he canceled his opera contract and moved to Vienna. When the Nazis took over there, the family was touring in Australia. They settled in the United States just before the start of World War II, and the elder Kipnis joined the Met.
        ''The family phonograph loomed large in my early years,'' Igor Kipnis  said, ''partly because of my father's many 78 r.p.m. discs of lieder and operatic arias.'' In a 1977 article in Stereo Review, for which he was a critic and contributing editor, Mr. Kipnis recalled growing up in Westport, Conn., taking piano lessons without thoughts of playing professionally and ''madly'' collecting records.
        One day, perusing a collection he had bought of Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier'' played by Edwin Fischer, he was annoyed to find that it included as a filler the second English Suite played not on the piano but on the harpsichord by Wanda Landowska. ''As it turned out,'' he wrote, ''this apparent rip-off soon fascinated me more than any of the many Bach piano discs I had, and I  longed to try a harpsichord in the flesh sometime.''
        He got that chance at Harvard, where he majored not in music but in social relations. ''I was thoroughly smitten,'' he said. ''Nothing happened, however, until 1957, when my parents imported a small instrument for me to fool around with after work.'' At the time he was in charge of covers and liner notes at Westminster Records.
        Fooling around meant, for example, finding subtle ways to suggest getting louder and softer, which the instrument cannot do, and suggesting a singing line, though the harpsichord's tones are brief and abrupt.  The harpsichord, whose strings are plucked when the keys are pressed, required a different touch than the piano, whose strings are struck.
        Mr. Kipnis taught himself, with a little help. The harpsichordist Fernando Valenti, for instance, exchanged lessons for dinner made by Mr. Kipnis's wife, Judith Robison. (They later divorced.) Mr. Kipnis is survived by his son, Jeremy, of Connecticut.
        Mr. Kipnis often said that it was his father who most influenced his musical development. While accompanying his father's students on the piano he learned a vast repertory and absorbed his father's teaching, not realizing until many years later how formative the experience had been. Among other things, he said, he learned to think in terms of a vocal line. Also, ''he advised me to talk to audiences in my concerts,'' he said, ''just as he had done so often in his American tours.''
        After a debut in 1959, Mr. Kipnis played freelance harpsichord continuo with various groups, wrote for The New York Herald Tribune and joined Stereo Review as a record critic -- a role he continued for various publications throughout his performing career.
        His own records were successful, and in 1964 he got a CBS recording contract, and another contract eight years later from Angel. By 2000 he had more than 80 albums to his credit.
        In 1971 he left New York for Fairfield County, Conn., taught full time at Fairfield University, then cut back as his concert touring expanded. He performed as a harpsichord soloist with American orchestras including the New York Philharmonic, Chicago, Pittsburgh and National Symphonies, and abroad with orchestras including the Munich Philharmonic, winning critical praise.
        In 1981 Peter G. Davis of The New York Times savored two Kipnis recordings of Bach clavier concertos as ''scrupulously stylish, rhythmically buoyant and tastefully ornamented.'' Bernard Holland of The Times, praising an evening of fortepiano music at the Kaye Playhouse in 1993,  wrote, ''His playing was civility itself, the kind that makes grammar not just correct but expressive and that values clarity and order above all in matters of rhythm and meter.''
        He played not only the traditional  harpsichord music from the 16th to 18th centuries, but also contemporary music and jazz, including pieces written for him by composers like Ned Rorem, Eric Salzman, Richard Rodney Bennett and Leopold Godowsky. He sampled this range in concerts he called ''The Light and Lively Harpsichord,'' as well as in informal college recitals.
        ''I was your basic cocktail harpsichordist,'' he said in 1993, recalling his performances in campus cafeterias. ''I used amplification, with a running commentary on the music. But you can take Muhammad to the mountain, and the mountain still may not come to the concert.''
        His choice of locations might have had something to do with that. Churches, he said, offered the best acoustics for pre-19th-century music. ''All too often what happens is that you have a group of period-instrument players in a high school auditorium,'' Mr. Kipnis said. ''That's the kiss of death because it makes the instruments sound very unappealing and thin.'' Nor do early instruments blend happily with modern ones. ''The music usually comes out heavy, sounding a bit like not-well-cooked potato pancakes,'' he said.
        In Connecticut, Mr. Kipnis was president and artistic director of the Friends of Music of Fairfield County, a chamber music series, for five years; an artistic director of the Connecticut Early Music Festival for 13 years; and a faculty member at Fairfield University for seven years. He also taught at Tanglewood, as head of its Baroque department, and frequently presented master classes and lectures at Harvard, the Peabody Institute, the Mannes College of Music and other institutions.
        Mr. Kipnis owned three harpsichords, two clavichords, a 1793 fortepiano and a 1926 Steinway piano. One of those harpsichords, a French-style instrument, had more miles on it than most cars, he said, because he took it on tour in a van. Another, a German type, Chinese red and 10 feet long, also went on tour, and was used for his debut with the New York Philharmonic.
        He also regarded himself as a frustrated portrait photographer and would bring his camera to rehearsals. ''If I am playing a Bach concert where the hands are busy all the time, I can't get any kind of shot,'' he said. ''But, say, if I'm playing the Poulenc Harpsichord Concerto, then there are places where I have rests. At those points, I can grab the camera, get off a fast shot of the conductor in motion and be able to come back in time for my entrance. I usually take these pictures from the harpsichord bench. This amuses the orchestra to no end.''
      