
        Peter Kowald, the German bassist who worked in the realm of free improvisation and brought to his musicianship a lifetime of wide traveling and study and an admiration of interdisciplinary art, died early Saturday morning after a performance in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. He was 58 years old, and died of a heart attack at the home of his friends and colleagues, the bassist William Parker and the dancer Patricia Nicholson.
        Mr. Kowald, always based in Wuppertal, Germany, had been visiting New York periodically for a year and a half. There was great power and concentration in his improvising: he had a broad, strong sound, impeccable intonation and could spend long periods investigating a single pitch and its overtones. At certain moments, he would bend his torso so that his bald head pointed toward the audience, aim his mouth at the resonating chamber within the bass and perform the low subharmonic growls of Mongolian throat-singing, which he had learned while staying a Buddhist monastery in Japan during the early 1980's.
        He was an early associate of the saxophonist and European free-jazz patriarch Peter Brötzmann, also from Wuppertal; they first played together in Mr. Kowald's late teens, and he took part in Mr. Brotzmann's raw and epochal ''Machine Gun'' album in 1968.
        By 1966 he was also performing with Alexander von Schlippenbach's Globe Unity Orchestra. In the late 1970s and early 1980s he performed in a trio with the American trumpeter Wadada Leo Smith and the drummer Gunter Sommer; he played in endless duo and trio formats with an international cast of improvisers.
        With Mr. Parker and Ms. Nicholson, he helped organize the Sound Unity festivals of improvised music in New York City in 1984 and 1988; in 2000, he drove a station wagon around America for three months, playing solo concerts and small concerts with local musicians.
        He is survived by a sister, Cornelia Tsirigotis, of Aachen, Germany; a brother, Bernd Kowald of Bonn, Germany; two daughters, Maruta Kowald-Abdelhadi of Antwerp, Belgium, and Sytske Kowald of Doetinchem, the Netherlands; and three grandchildren.
      