
        Jan Kott, a Polish-American theater critic and expert on Shakespeare whose theories influenced some of the most innovative of modern theater directors, died on Dec. 22 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 87 and formerly lived in Stony Brook, N.Y.
        Mr. Kott was one of a handful of theater critics who have changed the perception of masterpieces. His main strong point as a critic lay in his skill at showing ''the way in which the history is part of the drama and the drama is part of the history,'' as he put it in a 1985 interview.
        In his influential book ''Shakespeare Our Contemporary'' (1964, Doubleday), ''Kott sees Shakespeare in the light of our world, or, more pointedly and poignantly, in the light of his world,'' Harold Clurman, a director, drama critic and author on theater, wrote in a review of the work in The New York Times Book Review. ''Being a Pole whose country suffered more than any other the holocaust of Nazism and later the oppression of Stalinism, Kott's vision of our era is infernal.''
        In the book, Mr. Kott revealed an artistic relationship between William Shakespeare and Samuel Beckett. That insight, in a 1962 French translation of the book, greatly influenced Peter Brook's 1964 production of Shakespeare's ''King Lear,'' starring Paul Scofield. In that production, King Lear is alone on the heath like a figure out of Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot.''
        Mr. Kott also helped shape the work of directors like Giorgio Strehler and Ariane Mnouchkine.
        ''For me, theater is the Event,'' he said in the 1985 interview, when he was 70. ''It is not abstract. It is part of life, and it is connected with my personal history. I lived the life of the theater.''
        ''The play, the three hours in the theater, is just a short moment,'' he added. ''And backstage is always as important as the stage.''
        In his collection of essays, ''The Bottom Translation: Marlowe and Shakespeare and the Carnival Tradition'' (1987, Northwestern), ''Mr. Kott takes the concept of 'chronotope,' the joining of time and space, basic to the theorizing of the Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtin and extends it, contemplating the causal and temporal connections between masterpieces,'' Mel Gussow of The Times wrote in the Book Review.
        In the 1985 interview, Mr. Kott, who was also a dramaturge, said, ''The most exciting time in my life was cooperating on productions with Peter Brook and Giorgio Strehler,'' and the ideal relationship was to be ''a dramaturge for the great directors.''
        Born in Warsaw, he studied at the universities of Warsaw, Paris and Lodz. He returned to Poland shortly before World War II and was drafted into the Polish army.
        Later he was in the underground Resistance against the German occupiers of Poland. He joined the Polish Communist Party during the war and quit after 14 years.
        After teaching Polish literary history at the University of Warsaw and being a visiting professor at Yale, he lost the Warsaw teaching post on political grounds. He was granted  asylum in the United States in 1969, by which time he had become known in Europe for his writings about Shakespeare.
        He taught courses involving drama, English and literature at the State University of New York at  Stony Brook from 1969 to 1983, when he retired.
        He married Lidia Steinhaus in 1939. She died in 2000.
        Surviving are a son, Michael, of Pelham, N.Y. and Washington; a daughter, Teresa Berger of Boston; and four grandchildren.
      