
        Lord Porter, who shared the 1967 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a technique to set off and observe chemical reactions with flashes of light, died on Aug. 31. He was 81.
        Lord Porter's research, performed at Cambridge University in the 1940's and 1950's with his mentor, Dr. Ronald G. W. Norrish, provided snapshots of how molecules split and reassemble in chemical reactions.
        In later work, drawing inspiration from the photosynthesis of plants, he sought -- ultimately, in vain -- to solve the world's energy needs by developing an efficient means of using sunlight to produce hydrogen, which can be burned as a pollutionless fuel.
        As director of the Royal Institution of Great Britain and as president of the Royal Society, Lord Porter also worked to spread interest and understanding of science among nonscientists, lecturing often on television and radio.
        ''Really what he wanted to do was inspire young people to be scientists,'' said Dr. David Phillips, a professor of chemistry at Imperial College in London, who was Lord Porter's deputy at the Royal Institution in the 1980's.
        Lord Porter was also loudly critical of repeated cuts in science spending by Margaret Thatcher's government in the 1980's. The cuts, he said in a 1987 speech, would leave Great Britain among ''the third world of science.''
        ''He fought very hard to reverse that, with some success,'' Dr. Phillips said. ''He was a good politician, but he didn't mince his words.''
        He was knighted in 1972 and elevated to Baron of Luddenham in 1990.
        Born in Stainforth, England, George Porter received his undergraduate degree from the University of Leeds.
        In 1945, he joined the laboratory of Dr. Norrish at Cambridge. At the time, chemists knew the ingredients at the start of the experiment and the final product produced by the reaction, but little about short-lived molecules that formed during the reaction.
        In their experiments, Dr. Porter and Dr. Norrish started chemical reactions in a gas with a bright flash of light that shattered chemical bonds. The molecular fragments, known as free radicals, are highly reactive and quickly recombine into new molecules. A second flash of light, quickly following the first, identified the free radicals; the colors of light they absorbed acted as identifying fingerprints. The technique allowed them to study, for example, how combustion works.
        In the first experiments, Dr. Porter and Dr. Norrish used flashes lasting about a thousandth of a second. A decade later, better equipment was able to shorten the flashes to a millionth of a second, and the invention of the laser in 1960 enabled even shorter flashes.
        Dr. Porter and Dr. Norrish shared the 1967 Nobel Prize with Dr. Manfred Eigen of the Max Planck Institute for Physical Chemistry in Germany.
        The work laid the groundwork for a second Nobel Prize. In 1999, Dr. Ahmed H. Zewail of the California Institute of Technology received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his study of chemical reactions with laser pulses lasting just one-thousandth of a trillionth of a second.
        Dr. Porter worked as a professor of chemistry at the University of Sheffield from 1955 to 1966. ''He was a considerable leader of his field,'' said Dr. Brian Brocklehurst, a colleague of Dr. Porter's at Sheffield. ''The worst you can say about him was, a bit impatient at times.''
        Dr. Porter became director of the Royal Institution in 1966. Among the institution's venerated programs are its annual Christmas Lectures, a series of talks by eminent scientists aimed at young people. In his first year, Dr. Porter arranged for the lectures to be shown on the BBC, reaching a much wider audience. The lectures continue to be shown every December.
        He also continued his scientific research, looking for a cheap, efficient means of harnessing sunlight for energy. Photosynthesis in plants is not very efficient. He felt sure science could do better, but over time realized the problem was harder than he had expected.
        ''He used to say, 'Nature is miserably inefficient in converting light into usable energy; surely with modern science, we can do better than that,' '' Dr. Phillips said.
        By the end of Lord Porter's tenure at the Royal Institution in 1985, ''he would say, 'Nature is miserably inefficient at converting light into usable energy, but it would be presumptuous of mere mortals to beat nature,' '' Dr. Phillips said.
        Lord Porter often raised the ire of other scientists when he dismissed many of the social sciences as pseudoscience.
        ''It was one of his pet hates, really,'' Dr. Phillips said. ''He felt that much of sociology, psychology, what you call the soft sciences, really weren't science as he defined it. He felt you really have to quantify things.''
        Lord Porter is survived by his wife, Stella Brooke, and two sons, John and Andrew, according to The Guardian.
      