
        John Weitz, the fashion designer known for licensing a variety of products under his name and for his second career as a novelist and historian, died yesterday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his son Christopher said.
        Mr. Weitz cheerfully accepted the blame for being among the first American fashion designers to enter into licensing deals in the early 1950's. He licensed items like socks, neckties and men's fragrances, though he had his limits. He would not use his name on clothing for large women, police and airline uniforms (''They wanted to tell me how to design them''), or cigarettes (''I thought it would be immoral'').
        A designer's name lives after him, Mr. Weitz said in a 1988 interview with The New York Times. ''Christian Dior has been dead for 30 years, and he still makes more money than I do,'' he said. ''My presence, you see, is not exactly necessary.''
        John Fairchild, the former publisher of Women's Wear Daily, said last night that Mr. Weitz was a very clever businessman.
        ''He made some wonderful sportswear, he understood very sporty clothes, and he had a certain amount of elegance about what he did,'' he said.
        ''He did very well at putting his name on things,'' Mr. Fairchild said. ''He became sort of a household name.''
        Mr. Fairchild considered Mr. Weitz more of a stylist than a designer. ''He was making things he thought were attractive for the general public, and at that time this was rather unique.''
        Mr. Fairchild recalled how Mr. Weitz would talk about his days in the Office of Strategic Services (the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency). ''He loved all that romantic part of his past,'' Mr. Fairchild said. ''He was a perfect gentleman, and could talk for hours and hours and hours, a lot about himself, which is part of his charm.''
        He was born Hans Werner Weitz on May 25, 1923, in Berlin, the son of Robert Salomon Weitz, an infantry hero in World War I who was awarded the Iron Cross. Robert Weitz became a successful businessman who was part of the social set in Berlin described by Christopher Isherwood.
        John Weitz came to the United States in 1939, his son said. In 1944, at the age of 21, he joined the O.S.S., returning to his native land for what he calls ''sensitive work.''
        In 1964 he married Susan Kohner, Lana Turner's co-star in ''Imitation of Life.''
        Mr. Weitz went on to write books, including ''Hitler's Diplomat: The Life and Times of Joachim von Ribbentrop,'' a biography of the German bon vivant who served as Hitler's ambassador to London. Von Ribbentrop was foreign minister from 1938 until the end of the World War II. He was hanged in 1946 for war crimes.
        Mr. Weitz also wrote ''Hitler's Banker''; ''Man in Charge''; ''Friends in High Places''; and ''The Value of Nothing''.
        In a 1992 interview with The Times, Mr. Weitz said he could not count the number of times he was asked how he reconciled the dichotomy between designing and writing about such serious topics. ''As Shakespeare said, 'One man in his time plays many roles,' '' he said. ''And who else but a fashion designer would understand such a worldly man?''
        His sons Paul and Christopher were the co-directors and producers of the movies ''American Pie'' and ''About a Boy.''
        Recently, Mr. Weitz was rewriting a novel based on the life of Max Schmeling, a German boxer, Mr. Weitz's son, Christopher, said.
        In addition to his sons Paul and Christopher, he is survived by his wife, Susan Kohner Weitz, and two children from his previous marriage to Sally Gould: Karen Weitz Curtis and Robert Weitz. He is also survived by a granddaughter.
      