
        Albert A. Walsh, a top New York housing official in the Rockefeller and Lindsay administrations who helped bring public and private interests together to build cheaper housing, died yesterday in Red Bank, N.J. He was 74 and lived in Red Bank.
        The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Nanette Walsh said.
        In a tumultuous era of change in urban housing, Mr. Walsh fought at the front lines for nearly half a century, helping draft the Mitchell-Lama housing aid legislation when he was a private lawyer and later administering it as both a state and city official. He became a prominent national spokesman on housing.
        In the Rockefeller administration, he oversaw the state's low-rent, middle-income housing and urban renewal programs, among others.
        Then, under Mayor John V. Lindsay, he was chairman of the city's Housing Authority at a time when its residents were becoming poorer and public funds scarcer. He helped persuade Washington to subsidize the expenses of public housing for the poor, as well as its construction. He also made social services, like addiction counseling and child care, part of New York's public housing.
        He then was chairman of the city's Housing and Development Administration, overseeing the construction of thousands of apartment units for middle- and low-income people.
        He was also an advocate of new approaches to help housing at a time the older ones were losing political steam. In 1976, at a conference of 2,000 housing and community activists in Washington, he proposed what he called a national development bank to channel billions of dollars of pension funds into housing.
        ''He was a major figure, not just in New York State but in the country, in the field of affordable housing,'' said Richard Ravitch, co-chairman of the Millennial Housing Commission, a group of 22 housing experts that has extensively studied national housing needs. ''He was one of the genuine experts,'' Mr. Ravitch said.
        As both a private lawyer and public official, Mr. Walsh did not see private real estate interests as the demon many liberal housing advocates perceived. His forte was bringing builders, advocates, intellectuals and bankers together to further his deepest passion: low-income housing.
        From disputes in New York neighborhoods to high-level conclaves of experts, the tall, amiable Mr. Walsh worked easily with low-income housing advocates like Clara Fox, said Louis Winnick, a senior consultant at the Fund for the City of New York.
        ''When two people were arguing across the table, he'd be the mediator,'' said Mr. Winnick, who worked with Mr. Walsh in various jobs since 1959.
        Mr. Walsh was also capable of taking positions not shared by his fellow Republicans, much less the wealthy developers who were his clients as a lawyer after he left government in 1972.
        ''He was always committed to the idea of some public ownership of housing, even in recent years when everybody was attacking public housing,'' Ms. Fox said.
        His grand vision was that impoverished areas of the city might again blossom.
        ''The ultimate goal, yes, is to encourage the middle class of whatever race to come back to the areas they fled from,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times after his appointment as the city's Administrator of Housing and Development in 1970. But he also warned against too-rapid gentrification.
        ''You have to be careful that you don't generate a kind of land boom in the area that drives everyone out,'' he said.
        Albert Anthony Walsh was born in Yonkers on Jan. 13, 1928. He attended Cathedral High School in Manhattan and then Charles E. Gorton High School in northern Yonkers. He completed a semester at Fordham College before enlisting in the Navy and served on a submarine in the years immediately after World War II. He returned to graduate from Fordham and Fordham Law School.
        He began to practice law and worked on Republican campaigns in Westchester County. After helping Nelson E. Rockefeller win the 1958 election for governor, Rockefeller appointed him assistant counsel in the Division of Housing and Urban Renewal. He rose to counsel and deputy commissioner of the agency.
        Mayor Lindsay appointed him chairman of the New York City Housing Authority in 1967, putting him in charge of 157 projects, with 143,000 apartments and more than 533,000 tenants.
        In an interview with The New York Post, he said, ''The important thing to do is to humanize the program, to sort of make it become the real civic asset it was during the early days in the 30's and 40's.''
        One of his tangible achievements was to increase the federal cost limit of $3,150 for building each apartment room. He got it raised to $4,200.
        Mr. Walsh was then appointed head of the city's new housing agency over objections from Democrats and Liberal Party members who resented his Republican affiliation. Though he personally opposed rent control, he said that it was not the sole reason for keeping owners' income so low that housing decayed.
        Mr. Walsh was president of the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials in 1971-72. At various times, he was on the boards of the New York City Educational Construction Fund, the United Nations Development Corporation and the Roosevelt Island Development Corporation.
        A biography prepared by his law firm, Seward & Kissell, said that Mr. Walsh concentrated on municipal bonds in addition to real estate matters in his private practice.
        He is survived by his wife, Nan; his sisters Roslyn Gilligan of Pittsburgh and Marie Albert of Wilmington, Del.; his daughters Maryellen Walsh of Cross River, N.Y., and Nanette Walsh of Manhattan; his son, Mark, of Rye, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      