
        Ben Eastman, who became the world's fastest quarter-mile and half-mile runner 70 years ago only to meet frustration in the Olympics, died Sunday at his home in Hotchkiss, Colo. He was 91.
        From 1932 to 1934, Eastman set the world records outdoors at 400 meters, 440 yards, 500 meters, 600 yards, 800 meters and 880 yards. After Eastman set the world records for 440 and 880 yards two weeks apart, John Kieran, the New York Times sports columnist, called him ''the greatest quarter- and half-miler the world ever saw.''
        Eastman became known as Blazin' Ben, who would race quickly to the front and dare his opponents to catch him. Except for one, Bill Carr, they seldom did. In three major 400-meter races in 1932 -- in the IC4A intercollegiate championships, the United States Olympic trials and the Los Angeles Olympics -- Eastman, of Stanford, took the lead, only to have Carr, of the University of Pennsylvania, run him down and win in world-record time.
        In the IC4A meet, which then attracted all the major college teams, Carr won in 47.0 seconds. Two weeks later in the Olympic trials, Carr won in 46.9.
        Still, Eastman was an early favorite in the Olympic 400 and 800 meters. A Milan sports newspaper called him ''Il fenomeno.'' But R. L. Templeton, the Stanford coach, decided Eastman would run only the 400 because a 400-800 double would require seven races in five days.
        Arthur Daley wrote in The Times of the Olympic 400-meter final:
        ''This is a rivalry that, in the minds of those present, transcended in importance even the fact that the United States was standing against the world. Here was the race that was to decide, once and for all, whether Carr, the sprinter, or Eastman, the pace-setter, was the better. No one else in the race was given any consideration.''
        The crowd of 70,000 watched a race that lived up to its billing. As the runners entered the final straightaway, Eastman, fighting a sinus infection, led by 3 yards. But Carr again rallied and beat Eastman by 2 yards in 46.2 seconds, eclipsing the world record. After Eastman received his silver medal, he was consoled by Will Rogers, the humorist.
        Eastman had one other lasting memory of that race. At the end, he wrote in a 1984 retrospective for The Times, ''As I stood bent over with my hands on my knees, I wondered when I'd ever catch my breath again.''
        In 1934, he retired from running. He returned in 1936 and tried to make the Olympic team, but he finished fifth in the United States trials and retired for good. A decade later, he served as the part-time track coach at Santa Clara University.
        Benjamin Bangs Eastman was born July 19, 1911, in San Francisco. He and his brother Samuel started running in high school in Burlingame, Calif.
        ''They were sickly,'' said June Pausback, Samuel Eastman's daughter, ''and they weren't supposed to take physical education classes, but they did. One day, Ben looked at a track team practice and told his brother, 'We can beat these boys.' And they did.''
        Eastman earned a bachelor's degree from Stanford in 1933 and a master's of business administration there in 1935. He worked in San Francisco and New York with companies that sold industrial supply equipment. Since 1959, he owned and operated an orchard in western Colorado, growing apples, peaches and pears over 140 to 150 acres.
        He lived nearby with his wife of 63 years, the former Edwina Ellis. He is also survived by three sons, Ben Jr. of Denver, Gary of Fort Collins, Colo., and Peter of Hotchkiss; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        In the farmhouse where he lived, the living-room walls were lined with paintings and books, but no track medals or trophies. He said, almost in apology, ''I don't really know how many medals I won or where they are.''
      