
        Jim Seymour, an early and influential technical writer who explained the benefits and headaches of personal computers for two decades in enthusiasts' periodicals like PC Week and PC Magazine, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 60.
        The cause was complications from gall bladder surgery, said his wife, Nora.
        Like most people pulled into the personal computer industry in the early years, Mr. Seymour was a self-taught expert. A native Texan, Rogers James Seymour graduated from the University of Texas, then worked for a few years as a jazz musician and freelance photographer for magazines like Life and Time.
        Yet Mr. Seymour had become fascinated by computers even before I.B.M. introduced its first personal computer in 1981, which moved the PC beyond its hobbyist following and into the business mainstream. After personal computing magazines were founded to help businesses make use of the strange desktop machines, Mr. Seymour became a columnist whose views were widely read.
        His writing style was folksy and irreverent. Mr. Seymour regarded the PC mainly as a tool that put computational power in the hands of individual workers, an important departure from the centralized, mainframe era of computing. He derided the mainframe diehards as ''numbskulls'' and ''data Nazis.''
        Mr. Seymour could be caustic, and his editors gave him a lot of writing freedom. In one column submitted to PC Magazine, he used bluntly profane language to describe a computer program he found frustratingly difficult. A copy editor asked Bill Machrone, then the editor in chief, ''Can we say that in PC Magazine?''
        ''We can't,'' Mr. Machrone recalled replying, ''but Jim can.''
        In his columns and his two books, ''Jim Seymour's PC Productivity Bible'' (1991) and ''Jim Seymour's On the Road'' (1992), his approach was to deliver pragmatic advice for people who used the technology, especially in business.
        He shunned the cultural philosophy and sociology that has tended to surround the PC industry. He once wrote that ''PC revolution'' was a ''terrible term,'' a marketer's bit of hyperbole. The personal computer ''didn't end hunger or solve the homeless problem,'' he said, adding, ''But it did make for a better, more satisfying work life for a heck of a lot of people.''
        Companies often sought Mr. Seymour's advice. Nowhere was his influence greater than at Dell Computer in Austin. It was Mr. Seymour who introduced a young Michael Dell, who began his direct-mail computer company in his University of Texas dormitory room, to Lee Walker, who became Dell Computer's first president. Mr. Walker brought the skills of a veteran businessman to the fledgling start-up.
        Mr. Seymour's talks with Mr. Dell continued over the years. ''When Dell was a much younger company,'' Mr. Dell said yesterday, ''Jim shared his wisdom more generously than we could have ever hoped for. His guidance helped shape our early success. And a relationship that started in Austin nearly 20 years ago lasted through an exceptional period of evolution and growth in our industry.''
        Mr. Seymour was also the founding editor in chief of PC Computing magazine in 1988; the next year, it was a finalist in the National Magazine Awards general excellence category. His wife is the former editor of PC Computing.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Seymour is survived by a son, Graham Gordon Seymour.
      