
        John H. D'Arms, the president of the American Council of Learned Societies, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was brain cancer, his family said.
        Dr. D'Arms was a classicist whose work focused on the history of ancient Roman cities, culture and society.
        From 1997 until his death, he was president of the council, a nonprofit federation of 64 national scholarly organizations. As the council's president, he was credited with leading the effort to enlarge and strengthen its prestigious fellowship program for scholars.
        He was also a spokesman for financial support for the humanities in Congressional testimony and elsewhere.
        He was named by President Bill Clinton to the National Council on the Humanities, where he served from 1994 to 1997. It advises the National Endowment for the Humanities.
        When Dr. D'Arms joined the National Council on the Humanities, he was a professor of classics at the University of Michigan, where he was also vice provost for academic affairs and dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies. His first post at the university began in 1965; his last ended in 1997.
        On leave from Michigan, he was both the resident director of the American Academy in Rome and a professor in its School of Classical Studies from 1977 to 1980. By then he was already a leader in his scholarly field.
        At the time of his death, he was working on a study of Roman society's cultural and social conventions concerning food and drink.
        His writings include the books ''Romans on the Bay of Naples'' (1970) and ''Commerce and Social Standing in Ancient Rome'' (1981, Harvard).
        When he died, he was a trustee of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and the Modern Language Association.
        John Haughton D'Arms was born in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He received bachelor's degrees from Princeton and Oxford. His doctorate was in classical philology from Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Maria Teresa Waugh, who is a daughter of the novelist Evelyn Waugh; a son, Justin, and a daughter, Helena, both of Columbus, Ohio; two grandchildren; and two brothers, Ted, of Seattle, and Phillip, of Manlius, N.Y.
      