
        Two years ago, as Frank Lautenberg was preparing to trade in his Senate seat for retirement, he was already expressing regret for his decision not to run for re-election after 18 years in Washington. ''It feels lousy,'' he said at the time. ''I'm going to miss this place.''
        Apparently, he still misses it.
        In tapping Mr. Lautenberg to fill the ballot spot occupied by Senator Robert G. Torricelli, party leaders are clearly hoping his familiar, untarnished name and his skills as a seasoned fund-raiser and advocate for Democratic causes will be an effective foil to Douglas R. Forrester, the Republican candidate, and help keep the Senate in Democratic hands.
        With a thatch of white hair and an avuncular demeanor, Mr. Lautenberg, 78, is the respected figure Democrats wanted for what they hope will be a furious 35-day campaign to keep Mr. Torricelli's seat in Democratic hands. Although he never attained the near-cult following of his Senate colleague Bill Bradley, Mr. Lautenberg was widely admired by Democrats as a liberal, hard-working legislator who championed tough environmental regulations and strict antismoking rules, including the bill that banned smoking on domestic flights and the law that raised the nation's drinking age to 21.
        ''In a chaotic and confusing time, Lautenberg seems like the most reasonable choice,'' said David Rebovich, a professor of political science at Rider University. ''He's a real trouper and a party loyalist and unlike so many politicians, he left office with quiet dignity.''
        And with five weeks left until the election, his name alone is worth millions. ''He doesn't have to buy recognition,'' said State Senator Richard J. Codey, New Jersey's Democratic chairman. ''People in this state know who he is.''
        Frank Raleigh Lautenberg was born in 1924 in Paterson, N.J., the son of Polish and Russian immigrants. His father tried his hand as a farmer and a bartender but died when Mr. Lautenberg was 18.
        Mr. Lautenberg worked several years in a sandwich shop opened by his mother, then enlisted in the Army during World War II, serving in Europe. After returning in 1946, he attended Columbia University on the G.I. Bill of Rights and graduated with a degree in economics. In 1954, after several years of selling insurance, Mr. Lautenberg and two friends started a company called Automatic Data Processing, now known as ADP, which employs more than 20,000 people. After retiring from the company in 1982 to serve in the Senate, he returned in 2001, when he was appointed an honorary director.
        With a net worth estimated at $11 million to $56 million, according to 2-year-old financial disclosure forms, Mr. Lautenberg can also be expected to reach into his own pocket to help finance a campaign that will require many millions of dollars to win.
        Although he first won office in 1982 by spending $5.5 million -- most of it his own money -- on a campaign for a seat in the Senate, in later years he found the task of running for re-election onerous. When he announced his decision not to seek re-election, he cited the never-ending quest for campaign money as the main reason for his retirement.
        ''I did not want to sit there all those hours each day asking for money,'' he said at the time.
        In the end, another liberal multimillionaire, Jon S. Corzine, stepped into the breach and spent in excess of $60 million, a Senate record, to win Mr. Lautenberg's seat.
        During his years in Washington Mr. Lautenberg was known as a hard-driving senator who delivered the goods to New Jersey, including a $500 million light-rail system in Hudson County and many millions more to clean up Superfund sites across the state.
        ''He wasn't a Rhodes scholar type, but more like an Al D'Amato, someone who took care of business at home,'' said Gerald M. Pomper, who teaches political science at Rutgers University. ''But unlike D'Amato, there's not much bad you could say about Lautenberg.''
        Party officials, however, are already quietly worrying about one potential bad thing: Mr. Lautenberg's age. Several veterans of long-ago battles could not help but note the irony of an elderly Mr. Lautenberg running against a challenger 29 years his junior. That is because it was exactly 20 years ago that Mr. Lautenberg won his first elected office by beating Representative Millicent Fenwick, who was then 72.
        During that campaign, Mr. Lautenberg gained considerable traction by repeatedly questioning her ''fitness'' and ''her ability to do the job.''
        Man in the News
      