
        Keith W. Uncapher, an engineer who oversaw seminal work in computer networking, especially on the underpinnings of what became the Internet, died last Thursday. He was 80 and lived in the Playa del Rey district of Los Angeles.
        The cause was a heart attack he suffered while flying from Washington to Los Angeles, a son, William B. Uncapher, said.
        In 1950, Mr. Uncapher joined the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., and eventually became director of its computer science division. A skilled hands-on engineer, Mr. Uncapher had a reputation for being the only one able to make RAND's Johnniac, an early computer named for John von Neumann, work reliably.
        But his greatest strengths in his 22 years at RAND were in his skill as a manager, especially in recruiting talented people, said David Farber, a visiting professor at Carnegie Mellon University who left Bell Laboratories in 1967 to work for Mr. Uncapher at RAND.
        It was in the early 1960's that the fundamentals for bundling and transmitting data, or packet switching, were first laid out by Paul Baran, an engineer who worked for Mr. Uncapher. Packet switching breaks data into discrete bundles that are then sent along various paths around a network and reassembled at their destination.
        Mr. Baran's work eventually became the underpinning for the Arpanet, a government-sponsored research network that preceded the Internet.
        In 1972, Mr. Uncapher started the Information Sciences Institute at the University of Southern California. Several colleagues from RAND followed him there.
        Under his management, researchers at the institute developed the Internet's domain name system, which included the suffixes .com, .net and .edu. Mr. Uncapher also oversaw a project to develop a more economical method for making prototypes of silicon chips. The project, called Mosis, is still in existence.
        He left the institute in 1987 to join the Corporation for National Research Initiatives, a nonprofit organization in Reston, Va., that conducts research into information infrastructure. He was listed as a co-founder of the group.
        Mr. Uncapher was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1998. Throughout his career, he was an adviser to the United States military on technological matters.
        Keith William Uncapher was born in Denver on April 1, 1922. When he was 6 months old, his parents moved to California, where his father worked as a supervisor at what was then Pacific Telephone. His mother was a homemaker.
        Mr. Uncapher spent nearly five years in the Navy during World War II, serving as a petty officer in aviation maintenance and radar technology.
        He received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from California Polytechnic University in San Luis Obispo in 1950. After graduating, he joined RAND. The same year, he married Doris Finks, whom he met at the Lockheed Corporation, where she was working in the mail department.
        Besides his sons, William, of Newport Beach, Calif., and Jeffrey, of Portland, Ore., Mr. Uncapher is survived by his wife, of Los Angeles.
      