
        Dr. Thomas B. Turner, an authority on infectious diseases and microbiology who led a vast expansion at the Johns Hopkins University medical school, died on Sept. 22 in Baltimore. He was 100.
        Dr. Turner spent three-quarters of his life and nearly all of his career at the medical school. He joined its faculty in the late 1920's and was chosen dean in 1957. Spending 11 years in the role, he was known for helping to increase the school's financing from the National Institutes of Health, attracting many new professors and overseeing the addition of new research centers.
        ''His tenure as dean was a time of great expansion for the school, but not just in buildings,'' said Dr. Richard Ross, who was the dean of the medical school from 1975 to 1990. ''He used N.I.H. funds and others to expand the university, but his greatest trait was his people skills. He was a leader in science and clinical medicine who used great wisdom in picking great people to join the faculty.''
        In World War II, Dr. Turner briefly left his professorship to lead the Army's syphilis eradication program. Toward the end of the war, he became alarmed by the high rates of venereal disease among American troops, particularly those who had been stationed in Central Europe.
        Hoping to curb the spread of the disease, he urged the Army to undertake a large-scale advertising campaigns encouraging people to reduce their risks of infections, but he had to fight widespread opposition from those who believed his programs encouraged sexual promiscuity.
        ''Some elements would have us discontinue the advocation of prophylaxis, which appears a little like removing the brakes from motor cars to prevent speeding,'' Dr. Turner said in an interview in 1945. He said it was important ''to see clearly the fundamental difference between moral order, on the one hand, and venereal disease control on the other.''
        In 1968, Dr. Turner became the first archivist of the Johns Hopkins medical institutions after stepping down as dean. He began a full-scale archival program and wrote a detailed history of the institution, one of five books he wrote, in addition to some 100 scholarly papers.
        In the early 80's, he became the first director of the newly formed Alcoholic Beverage Medical Research Foundation, which was based at Johns Hopkins.
        Born in Prince Frederick, Md., Thomas Bourne Turner earned his undergraduate degree from St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., and his medical degree from the University of Maryland.
        He is survived by two daughters, Anne Pope of New York City and Pattie Walker of Ipswich, Mass.; five grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren. His first wife, Anne Parran Somervell, died in 1960, and his second wife, Lorna Caithness Levy, died in 1982.
      