
        Raymond T. McNally, a black-caped scholar who combined a childhood fascination with horror films with his study of Eastern Europe to link the fictional Dracula with monstrous historical figures, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Catherine McNally said.
        Dr. McNally, a professor at Boston College specializing in Russian intellectual life, began his odyssey as he was reading ''Dracula,'' by Bram Stoker, and noticed that many places in the book were real. Because Transylvania and Borgo Pass existed and the train schedules in the book were accurate down to the minute, he reasoned that Dracula might have been based on a real person.
        He headed for Transylvania, part of present-day Romania, talked to peasants in the mountains and studied monastery records, Russian tales and Byzantine manuscripts.
        The result was his contention, still a matter of debate among academics but heartily endorsed by Romanian tourism officials, that a 15th-century nobleman, Vlad Tepes, was the basis for the fictional Dracula. After all, Vlad's nickname was Dracula, properly transliterated as Draculya and meaning ''son of the devil.''
        Vlad was also known as Vlad the Impaler for mounting Turkish prisoners on sharpened wooden posts and displaying them in his courtyard. While hundreds of victims writhed in agony, Vlad would set up a table outside and eat his dinner, washing it down with their blood.
        A result of Dr. McNally's quest was ''In Search of Dracula: A True History of Dracula and Vampire Legends'' (New York Graphic Society, 1972), which he wrote with another Boston College professor, Radu Florescu. Reference and User Services Quarterly, a publication of the American Library Association, said in 2000 that the book ''revived the serious study of the vampire myth.''
        Other reviewers were less kind. In The New York Times Book Review, George Stade wrote, ''A number of cute rhetorical questions, such as, 'Are there mysteries here beyond the reach of historical research?' illustrate mainly a lack of respect for their readers.''
        The authors followed up with ''Dracula: A Biography of Vlad the Impaler, 1431-1476'' (Hawthorne, 1973) and ''The Essential 'Dracula': A Completely Illustrated and Annotated Edition of Bram Stoker's Classic Novel'' (Mayflower, 1979).
        On his own, Dr. McNally served up another bloodthirsty figure he contended was also a source for Stoker. She was Elizabeth Bathory, a Hungarian known as the Blood Countess. She was responsible for torturing and killing several hundred girls and bathing in their blood. His book on her was ''Dracula Was a Woman: In Search of the Blood Countess of Transylvania'' (McGraw, 1983).
        Dr. McNally found himself the darling of Dracula and vampire fans. He happily attended meetings with people who slept in coffins and drank suspicious-looking red liquids.
        Raymond Thomas McNally was born in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, on April 15, 1931. He graduated from Fordham University and won a Fulbright Scholarship to attend the Free University of Berlin, where he earned his doctorate.
        His academic career was characterized by quiet achievement: in 1964, he founded the Russian and East European Center at Boston College, and in 1995, with Prof. Donald Carlisle, he established the Balkan Studies Institute.
        In addition to his daughter Catherine, of Larchmont, N.Y., he is survived by his wife, Carol; two sons, Michael, of Chalfont, Pa., and Patrick, of Newton; two other daughters, Brigitte McNally of Hull, Mass., and Tara McNally of the Netherlands; and seven grandchildren.
        Dr. McNally's last book was something completely different -- sort of. He and Dr. Florescu offered evidence of a person on whom Robert Louis Stevenson may have based Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. The candidate, as depicted in ''In Search of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde: The True-Life Origins and Cultural Impact of the Classic Horror Story'' (Renaissance, 2000), was an Edinburgh City Council member by day and a criminal by night.
        But vampires were Dr. McNally's obsession. In 1996, he released a CD-ROM that allowed the viewer to click on a little man and see a stake driven through his heart. In an interview on the Web site www.bloodlust-uk.com, he was asked if he would accept an invitation by Count Dracula to be immortal. The answer was no.
        ''I do not wish to take the life's blood from any human,'' he said.
      