
        James L. Usry, who in 1984 became the first black man to be elected Atlantic City's mayor but was defeated six years later in the middle of a municipal corruption scandal, died Friday at a nursing home in Galloway Township, N.J.
        He was 79 and had been suffering from diabetes and cancer.
        Mr. Usry, a Republican who was a middle school teacher, principal and assistant schools superintendent, first ran for public office in 1982, when he narrowly lost the mayoral election to Michael J. Matthews. But two years later Mr. Usry succeeded Mr. Matthews, who was under indictment for bribery and recalled from office.
        In 1990, Mr. Usry was indicted on charges of conspiracy, official misconduct and bribery -- one of 15 people accused by the state of taking part in an influence-peddling ring.  Voters turned him out of office that year, even as most of the government's case against him appeared to collapse. He eventually pleaded guilty to a campaign finance law violation and was sentenced to 60 hours' community service working for the Salvation Army.
        Mr. Usry said he was on painkillers after a shoulder operation when a local businessman gave him an envelope containing $6,000, and that the money he received was to be used for a children's charity.
        James Leroy Usry was born in Athens, Ga., on Feb. 2, 1922, and moved with his family to Atlantic City as a toddler, at a time when jobs for blacks in the deeply segregated resort city were ample but usually menial. The racial divisions that kept the black resort workers to their own part of the city, and even their own section of beach, deepened and festered as the city's fortunes declined in the 1950's.
        Municipal corruption also seemed, through a stretch beginning in the 1960's, to have become endemic. Three of the five mayors before Mr. Usry were indicted and were either convicted or pleaded guilty to crimes ranging from campaign law violations to bribery.
        Mr. Usry's election to City Hall appeared to many people to presage a change in that pattern, because he seemed to have risen above Atlantic City's many problems and disadvantages.
        A soldier in World War II, he served in Africa and Italy with the 92nd Infantry Division, part of a famous segregated unit called the Black Buffaloes. He also worked his way up through Atlantic City's hospitality industry to become maître d'hôtel at the Club Harlem on Kentucky Avenue in the 1940's, and also played professional basketball for a time for the Harlem Globetrotters and the New York Renaissance.
        A graduate of Atlantic City High School, Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and Glassboro State College (now Rowan University), Mr. Usry devoted most of his career to education, as a teacher and school administrator, and was widely praised for his involvement with his students and with the community. He was 60 when he finally decided to run for city office.
        In 1984, Gov. Thomas H. Kean said that Mr. Usry's campaign represented a vivid example of the ''politics of inclusion,'' a trend that Mr. Kean said he hoped would sweep through New Jersey's cities, eroding racial and economic divisions. Mr. Usry returned the praise, calling himself a ''Kean Republican'' who supported the governor's efforts to broaden racial and ethnic participation in state government.
        But Atlantic City's wounds did not heal. As mayor, Mr. Usry became an advocate for housing, education and affirmative action programs that would benefit the city's poorer residents, and was credited with planning the redevelopment of the Northeast Inlet neighborhood, one of Atlantic City's most blighted areas. But he drew fire for what other residents said was his lukewarm boosterism of the city's economic base, its casino and hotel industry.
        After he left office, the question of his prosecution became yet another element in Atlantic City's ongoing racial drama, with many people, especially blacks, arguing that he had been the victim of racism.
        Mr. Usry kept a mostly low profile in his last years. He became a substitute teacher in the city's public schools and served as a trustee at Lincoln University, occasionally surfacing publicly to help celebrate an old friend's birthday, but never again venturing back into politics. In an interview with The New York Times in 1995, when he was 73, he said he had stopped worrying about the past, and how he might be remembered.
        ''I've met the Queen of England,'' he said. ''I've been to Africa, Europe and Israel.'' All in all, Mr. Usry said, he'd had ''a good life.''
        Mr. Usry is survived by his wife, Laverne, and four stepchildren.
      