
        Alfred Lerner, who grew up behind his immigrant family's luncheonette in Brooklyn, rose to become a billionaire investor in banking and real estate, then revived one of sport's best-known names as owner of pro football's Cleveland Browns expansion franchise, died Wednesday in Cleveland. Mr. Lerner, who lived in Shaker Heights, Ohio, was 69.
        The cause was brain cancer, The Plain Dealer of Cleveland reported.
        In September 1998, Mr. Lerner won the bidding to bring pro football back to Cleveland when he paid $530 million -- a record at the time for a professional sports franchise -- to buy the newly forming Browns, who began play in the National Football League the following year.
        Mr. Lerner had been a minority owner of the old Cleveland Browns when their principal owner, Art Modell, moved them to Baltimore before the 1996 season. Mr. Modell was vilified then by fans in Cleveland, their football memories going back to the decade following World War II, when the old Browns dominated the pro game with stars like Otto Graham and Lou Groza.
        Among Browns rooters, there was some unhappiness as well with Mr. Lerner for introducing Mr. Modell to business interests in Maryland when he pursued shifting the franchise, now the Baltimore Ravens. But Mr. Lerner had lived in the Cleveland area for four decades and was a business and philanthropic presence there.
        Mr. Lerner subsequently became an important figure among N.F.L. owners as chairman of the league's finance committee.
        Alfred Lerner was born in Brooklyn, the only child of immigrants from Russia. The family lived in three rooms behind their candy store and sandwich shop, the store hours 6 a.m. to midnight, with three days off a year, on Jewish holidays.
        ''Over here was a soda fountain with maybe six stools,'' he told Business Week in 1998, sketching the layout. ''I'd usually eat dinner at this last stool. Over there was the counter. You know, cigars, cigarettes, candy. And back here were two phone booths -- we never had our own telephone -- so if I wanted to make a call, I'd stand on a soda box and put in a nickel.''
        Mr. Lerner graduated from Brooklyn Tech, obtained a bachelor's degree from Columbia College in 1955, served as a Marine Corps pilot, then worked as a $75-a-week furniture salesman, first in New York, then in Baltimore and Cleveland.
        He later moved into real estate and banking and was chairman and chief executive of the MBNA Corporation, the second-largest issuer of credit cards in the world after Citibank.
        MBNA began in 1982 as a subsidiary of MNC Financial, a state bank in Baltimore. It grew rapidly by issuing so-called affinity credit cards, which are endorsed by universities, sports teams and professional organizations.
        Mr. Lerner became a major shareholder in MNC Financial in 1990. Within a few months, the bank began to flounder under the burden of failed real estate loans, and Mr. Lerner stepped in as chief executive. He tried unsuccessfully to sell the bank's most successful unit, MBNA, to raise cash, then took it public in 1991, investing $100 million of his own money to ensure the success of the initial sale of stock.
        At his death, Mr. Lerner was also chairman of Town and Country Trust, which owns and operates more than 15,000 apartment units in the mid-Atlantic region.
        Mr. Lerner was a major charitable benefactor. Last June, he and his wife, Norma, donated $100 million to the Cleveland Clinic. He contributed $25 million toward the Columbia University student-activity center, Alfred Lerner Hall, which opened in 1999. He received the Alexander Hamilton Medal, Columbia College's highest honor, in 1997, and was a vice chairman of the Columbia University Board of Trustees.
        He created the Cleveland Browns Hero Fund, which provides financial aid to survivors of rescuers killed in the World Trade Center attack.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Lerner is survived by a son, Randolph; a daughter, Nancy; and seven grandchildren.
      