
        John Buscema, a comic book artist known for his robust renditions of characters like the Silver Surfer and Conan the Barbarian, died on Jan. 10. He was 74 and lived in Port Jefferson, N.Y.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said his son, John Buscema Jr.
        Mr. Buscema's most popular character was Conan the Barbarian, adapted from the pulp-fiction stories by Robert E. Howard. He drew the character for more than 25 years in comic books, magazines and a newspaper strip. One of his best remembered series featured the Silver Surfer, a noble, silvery-skinned creature of the cosmos confined to Earth. The cover of the first issue of the comic book featuring this character was auctioned on the Internet for $40,000.
        Though Mr. Buscema drew many of Marvel's superheroes, he preferred noncostumed characters. ''I really have a hard time relating to characters who fly or crash through buildings,'' he told one interviewer. ''I love to read about the lives of famous artists, and I think it would be fantastic to do a comic adaptation of, let's say, Vincent van Gogh's life.''
        Mr. Buscema brought the fine arts skills of an earlier generation of comic strip illustrators to the action-packed world of comic books. His brawny, athletic style combined the lush romanticism of Alex Raymond's ''Flash Gordon,'' the rippling anatomy of Burne Hogarth's ''Tarzan'' and the historical fantasy of Hal Foster's ''Prince Valiant.''
        Born in Brooklyn on Dec. 11, 1927, Mr. Buscema studied fine art at the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan and took life drawing at the Pratt Institute. His densely muscled superheroes and use of foreshortening reflect his study of the old masters, particularly Michelangelo.
        Mr. Buscema began his career in comics in 1948 by answering a help-wanted ad for a cartoonist at The New York Times. He went to work for Stan Lee at Timely Comics, the forerunner of Marvel Comics, on the 14th floor of the Empire State Building in a bullpen with other comic book luminaries, including Bill Everett, the creator of the Sub-Mariner, and Dan DeCarlo, who became the chief artist at Archie Comics.
        After leaving for a career in commercial art, Mr. Buscema returned to Marvel in 1966, when he learned how to do layouts and tell a story visually by studying the style of Marvel's lead artist, Jack Kirby. When Mr. Kirby left for the rival DC Comics in 1970, Mr. Buscema inherited the titles of Thor and the Fantastic Four and was influential in setting the new house style for other artists, including his brother Sal Buscema, who also drew for Marvel.
        He had recently completed a Superman comic with Mr. Lee for DC, and was working on sequels at the time of his death. His books include ''How to Draw Comics the Marvel Way'' and ''The John Buscema Sketchbook.''
        He is survived by his wife, Dolores; a son, John Jr., of South Salem, N.Y.; a daughter, Dianne Buscema-Gerogianis of Port Jefferson; and four grandchildren.
      