
        Dr. Charles Sheffield, a physicist and prolific science fiction author, died last Saturday at a hospice near his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 67.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his literary agent, Eleanor Wood.
        Dr. Sheffield, a native of Britain, had a doctorate in physics from American University. He was a consultant to NASA and later the chief scientist of the Earth Satellite Corporation, a Washington-based company specializing in natural-resource management.
        But after 1977, the year his first wife, Sarah Sanderson, died, he turned more to writing. John Clute, an editor of The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction (St. Martin's, 1995), recalled that Dr. Sheffield responded to his wife's death by diving ''into his own mind, where he found stories forming in the illimitable dark.''
        By 2002 Dr. Sheffield had written, or was a co-author of, more than two dozen novels. In his ''Summertide'' (1990) the known universe is believed to be peopled by man and by sizeable buglike beings called Cecropians. Gerald Jonas, in The New York Times Book Review, praised that book's scientific explanations and called it a ''likable, well-made puzzle'' in which Dr. Sheffield was clearly ''concerned with the inner life of his characters.''
        A half-dozen collections of short stories by Dr. Sheffield have been published. One of them, ''Georgia on My Mind and Other Places'' (1995), was praised in Publishers Weekly for its ''valuable ideas from a master craftsman.'' The book won two notable prizes for science fiction writing, the Hugo and Nebula awards.
        His second marriage, to Linda Zall, ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, Nancy Kress, also a science fiction writer, whom he married in 1997; a daughter and son from his first marriage, Ann Sheffield and Charles Christopher Sheffield; two daughters from his second marriage, Elizabeth Rose Sheffield and Victoria Jane Sheffield; his mother, Emma Sheffield; and a sister, Ann G. Hunt.
      