
        Billy Mitchell, a member of the 1950's doo-wop group the Clovers and the lead singer on ''Love Potion No. 9'' and other hits, died on Nov. 5 at a hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Helen Gibbs Mitchell.
        The Clovers, founded in Washington in 1946, were one of the most popular and influential doo-wop groups, with more than a dozen hits from 1951 to 1959, including ''Don't You Know I Love You?,'' ''Blue Velvet,'' ''Lovey Dovey,'' ''Devil or Angel'' and ''Love, Love, Love.''
        Like most of the R & B vocal groups of its era, the Clovers specialized in sweet harmonies and sentimental themes. But their songs stood out for their bluesy edge, with an occasional gritty vocal from Mr. Mitchell and electric guitar lines from Bill Harris.
        Among the songs on which Mr. Mitchell sang the lead were ''Your Cash Ain't Nothin' but Trash,'' ''All About You'' and ''Love Potion No. 9,'' a Lieber and Stoller song that was the group's last hit, in 1959. It reached No. 23 on both the R & B and pop charts, and in 1964 became a Top 10 pop hit for the English group the Searchers.
        Born in Washington in 1931, William Joseph Mitchell Jr. began his singing career early, joining the Joe Morris Blues Cavalcade when he was 17. He joined the Clovers in 1953, replacing Charlie White, who went on to a solo career.
        After ''Love Potion,'' the hits dried up for the Clovers. Mr. Mitchell left the group in 1962 and worked at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington until his retirement, in 1992.
        The Clovers continued in various new configurations; the full quintet reunited just once, for a benefit, in 1988. Of the group's original members, only Harold Winley survives.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Mitchell is survived by five children, William, Tracey, Robert, Victoria and Robin Mitchell, all of Washington; 11 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 18, 2002, Monday  The headline on Thursday for the obituary of the doo-wop singer Billy Mitchell referred incorrectly to his start with the Clovers. As the article said, he replaced Charlie White in 1953; he was not an original member.
      