
        Andrew W. Cooper, a civil rights advocate and publisher of The City Sun newspaper, a defunct weekly once on the must-read list of many black New Yorkers, died in Brooklyn on Monday. He was 74 years old.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Cooper left a permanent imprint on the city's political landscape in the mid-1960's as lead plaintiff in a federal lawsuit that challenged the apportionment of Congressional districts in Brooklyn, particularly in Bedford-Stuyvesant.
        The neighborhood was divided at the time among five districts, each with a white member of Congress. Mr. Cooper's challenge to what he called ''tortuous, artificial and labyrinthine'' districting was joined by other litigation, leading to the creation of the 12th Congressional District, and to the election of Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman in Congress.
        Mr. Cooper, a lifelong Brooklyn resident, was an executive of the F. & M. Schaefer Brewing Company from 1951 through 1971, and spent his next 25 years as a journalist. In the mid-1970's he wrote a weekly column for The Amsterdam News called ''One Man's Opinion'' that explored race, politics and privilege. He also contributed to The Village Voice.
        In 1997, he packaged his skills as a reporter and businessman by creating the Trans-Urban News Service, which provided several publications with articles and trained black, Hispanic and female journalists.
        Mr. Cooper founded The City Sun in 1984, and the paper immediately gripped the attention of many readers with investigative articles on the affairs of black civic leaders. Before it collapsed under financial pressure in 1996, The Sun had stung many politicians with editorials like the one in 1993 that advised Mayor David N. Dinkins, ''Frankly, you are beginning to look like a wimp.''
        ''The motto of the paper was  'Speaking Truth to Power,' '' said Mr. Cooper's wife, Jocelyn, of Brooklyn. ''That's what he was about, providing important information to his constituents, who were black.'' The phrase is shorthand for a Quaker principle that the truth often helps those in power to stop deluding themselves.
        Among several civic and professional affiliations, Mr. Cooper was a former trustee of the Caledonia campus of Brooklyn Hospital Center, director of the Addiction Research and Treatment Corporation and a member of One Hundred Black Men Inc. He had served as an adviser to the American Management Association and the National Urban Affairs Council, and as regional vice-chairman of the National Newspaper Publishers' Association.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Andrea Andrews of Manhattan and Jocelyn A. Cooper of Brooklyn.
      