
        Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre for more than 20 years, died yesterday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre. He was 77 and had been hospitalized for the past week and a half, said Joanne Novarro, a spokeswoman for the diocese.
        Bishop McGann was the second bishop of the diocese, which covers Nassau and Suffolk Counties and nearly 1.5 million Catholics in 134 parishes. ''He used to call it the second-best place next to heaven,'' Ms. Novarro said.
        Known for his strong stands on social issues, Bishop McGann in 1983 asked Roman Catholics on Long Island to lobby for an end to military aid to El Salvador and to urge the United States to grant temporary asylum for an estimated 40,000 Salvadoran refugees in the Long Island diocese.
        In 1985 he led nearly 4,000 protesters in a march on the Hempstead abortion clinic operated by Bill Baird, an advocate of birth control and abortion rights. In 1987 he issued a pastoral letter strongly advocating lower-cost housing on Long Island, putting him at odds with homeowners who feared for their property values.
        That same year Bishop McGann made national front-page headlines with his eulogy of William J. Casey, the former C.I.A. director, during which he criticized the Reagan administration's policy of aiding the rebels fighting the government of Nicaragua.
        With Mr. Reagan in a front-row pew and former President Nixon in attendance, Bishop McGann said, ''I cannot conceal nor disguise my fundamental disagreement on this matter with a man I knew and respected.''
        John Raymond McGann was born on Dec. 2, 1924, in Brooklyn, and studied for the priesthood at Cathedral College Preparatory Seminary in Brooklyn and Immaculate Conception Seminary in Huntington. He was ordained in the Diocese of Brooklyn in 1951 and assigned to St. Anne's parish in Brentwood, which became part of the Diocese of Rockville Centre when it was created in 1957. He also served as assistant chaplain at Pilgrim State Hospital and as a faculty member of St. Joseph's Academy in Brentwood.
        In 1959 he became a monsignor, and in 1976, he became the second bishop of the diocese. He was elected treasurer of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in 1984. In 1999, at the age of 75, he offered his resignation, as required by church law. He officially retired on Jan. 4, 2000.
        ''Often I referred to him as the living history of this diocese, because he stood beside the first bishop, Walter Kellenberg, as his secretary,''  Bishop William Murphy said. Bishop McGann succeeded Bishop Kellenberg when he retired.
        He is survived by a brother, James, and a twin sister, Sister John Raymond, former general superior of the Sisters of St. Joseph in Brentwood.
        A funeral Mass will be offered on Monday at 2 p.m. in the Cathedral of Saint Agnes in Rockville Centre.
      