
        Dr. Earl L. Warrick, one of the scientists who claimed credit for the creation of the ubiquitous plaything Silly Putty, died last Friday at his home in Loma Linda, Calif.
        He was 91.
        Dr. Warrick stumbled on the substance that would become Silly Putty early in World War II, when the War Production Board was searching for a substitute for rubber. That scarce commodity was essential for tires, gas masks and other wartime necessities. Dr. Warrick created an elastic, nontoxic substance that had no obvious practical applications.
        According to the story as told by the Dow Corning Corporation, where Dr. Warrick worked for more than three decades, the odd substance was simply a mistake; it was too pliable to be a substitute for rubber. The compound was a result of combining a silicone derivative with boric oxide. He called the result bouncing putty.
        It could be molded like clay and could even soak up the ink, and the images, on newspaper pages. The potential was eventually recognized by Ruth Fallgatter, the owner of a toy store in New Haven, and Peter C. L. Hodgson, a marketing executive, who advertised the material as Silly Putty in a catalog.
        It was a runaway hit and made a millionaire of Mr. Hodgson; Ms. Fallgatter soon dropped out of the business. (Today, Silly Putty is sold by Binney & Smith, the maker of Crayola crayons, which picked up the putty product through an acquisition.)
        Credit for the invention of Silly Putty is disputed, however, although Dr. Warrick always maintained that he and a colleague at Dow Corning, Rob Roy McGregor, received a patent before James Wright, a researcher at General Electric. G.E. also claims credit for Silly Putty.
        Dr. Warrick found the long-running dispute amusing, said his daughter Cathy. As a Dow employee he received $1 for the patent.
        Dr. Warrick worked for 33 years at Dow Corning. During his career, the company said, he helped invent silicone rubber, now used in items ranging from underwater masks to molds and automotive tubing. He also oversaw a high-technology operation that produced silicon, the essential material for computer microchips.
        He was one of about a dozen scientists working on silicone chemistry at Dow, the company said. Another of the group's inventions had far more practical applications: a lubricant to keep gears operating smoothly.
        Some 44 patents later, Dr. Warrick retired from Corning in 1976. In 1990 he completed a book, ''Forty Years of Firsts -- The Recollections of a Dow Corning Pioneer.''
        Twice after retiring, he served as the acting dean for the School of Science, Engineering and Technology at Saginaw State University, near Dow Corning's headquarters in Midland, Mich.
        Born Sept. 23, 1911, in Butler, Pa., Dr. Warrick received a bachelor's degree, a master's and a Sc.D. from the Carnegie Institute of Technology, now Carnegie Mellon University, in Pittsburgh. He joined Dow Corning on completing his doctorate in 1943 and moved with his wife, Jean D. Warrick, to Midland.
        The couple lived in Midland until they moved to California last year to be closer to their daughters. Mrs. Warrick, who was married to Dr. Warrick for 61 years, died last December.
        Dr. Warrick is survived by two daughters, Nancy Goyings of Redlands, Calif., and Cathy Warrick of San Jose, Calif.; a stepsister, Harriet Tobin of Brockway, Pa.; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      