
        Prince Alexandre de Mérode of Belgium, who for 35 years led the International Olympic Committee's often ineffective fight against illegal drug use by athletes, died Tuesday in a Belgian hospital. He was 68.
        Belgian newspapers said the cause was lung cancer.
        In 1964, Prince Alexandre was elected to the I.O.C. In 1967, with an academic background in philosophy and law but with no medical training, he was named chairman of the committee's medical commission, a position he held until his death.
        The commission tried to eliminate the use of illegal performance-enhancing drugs but always seemed a step behind the drug users. Even its most famous finding, the positive drug test that negated Ben Johnson's 100-meter gold medal and world record in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, was tainted. A Canadian doctor on the commission, fearing there would be a cover-up to avoid negative publicity, leaked the positive finding to the news media.
        Years later, Prince Alexandre said the paperwork of five or six positive drug tests from the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics had been shredded by mistake when his hotel suite was cleaned after the Olympics. He did not disclose that until 1994 because, he told The Washington Post: ''Nobody asked me. I believed people would not be happy, and it would perhaps destroy credibility.''
        He was an outspoken man whom critics accused of being out of touch with drugs in sports and failing to act decisively. The limited progress led to the formation in 1999 of the World Anti-Doping Agency, a semi-independent body to supervise global out-of-competition testing. Prince Alexandre, his role diminished, called the new organization ''not a realistic approach'' and said, ''We cannot destroy all of what has been before.''
        Dr. Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president and a fellow Belgian, said, ''His ideas and energy helped to begin an unceasing fight against doping and any activity damaging the integrity of the sport.''
        The prince alienated people in and out of sports. In 1998, when he accused Spanish sports doctors of encouraging the use of banned drugs, Juan Antonio Samaranch, a Spaniard and then the president of the I.O.C., forced him to apologize. Before last winter's Salt Lake City Olympics, when Prince Alexandre called the United States the main source of drug-contaminated nutritional supplements, Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah chided him for ''childish finger-pointing.''
        The prince was born May 24, 1934, in Etterbek, Belgium. He was a sports administrator and later a corporate director. He served the Olympic committee as a vice president (1986-90 and 1994-98) and a member of the executive board (1980-90).
        He was unmarried. Information on his survivors was not available.
        The prince wavered between strict and compassionate punishment for drug offenders. In 1996, he said that automatic penalties of four and two years imposed by sports federations were too severe.
        ''If I kill somebody and I have a good lawyer, I can get out after only one or two years,'' he said. ''If an athlete takes a small pill, he can be banned for life.''
      