
        Achille Castiglioni, the Italian architect and designer whose infusions of wit into domestic objects like lamps and stools helped establish Italy as a leader in sophisticated modern design after World War II, died on Monday in Milan at age 84.
        He is survived by his wife, Irma, two daughters, Giovanna and Monica, and a son. His family did not announce the death until yesterday, citing the desire to protect their privacy.
        Born in 1918 in Milan, Mr. Castiglioni graduated from Politecnico di Milano in 1944. He joined his elder brothers Livio and Pier Giacomo in their architecture and design studio, which was established in 1938 with Luigi Caccia Dominioni. Livio Castiglioni left the company in 1952.
        The remaining brothers worked on architectural and urban planning commissions like the Montecatini pavilion at the Milan trade fair in 1962, as well as the product designs that came to characterize the playful intelligence by which Italian design was known throughout the last half of the 20th century.
        They include the Mezzadro (Sharecropper's Stool), a standard tractor seat with a sleek base, and Sgabello per Telephono (Telephone Stool), a stark column topped by a bicycle seat, which were parts of Achille and Pier Giacomo Castiglionis' ''ready-made'' series of 1957.
        The two brothers also distinguished themselves, as a team, with notable lighting design, which included the Arco lamp, designed in 1962. The chrome ball shade, suspended seven feet from its marble base on an arch of steel, was a sly solution to hanging a lamp in a room without making a hole in the ceiling. Its inspiration was street lighting, brought inside, and its structure, literally a suspension of belief.
        The lamp, still in production, is emblematic of the high style associated with Italian design. The Ventosa reading lamp, designed in 1962, attached to a table with a rubber suction cup. It could also be stuck, like a miner's light, to the head.
        Achille and Pier Giacomo Castiglioni collaborated, with both signing their work, until Pier Giacomo's death in 1968. Livio Castiglioni died in 1979.
        Mr. Castiglioni's designs continued to recast the ordinary with surprise. His later products, characterized by simplicity, included Brera, a series of lamps with an opaque white shade that looked as naturally formed as an egg.
        ''When design is recognized, universally, as the cultural force that it is in Italy, he will be considered amazing, like Duchamp in his influence,'' said Paola Antonelli, a curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, who organized the museum's exhibition ''Achille Castiglioni'' in 1997.
        Ms. Antonelli, a student of Mr. Castiglioni when he was a professor of architecture and design at the Politecnico di Milano in the 1980's, recalled his classroom as the ''most entertaining and popular'' at the school. Mr. Castiglioni produced a magician's bag of found objects for each lecture: beer cans from Tehran, galoshes from the Soviet Union, eyeglasses and colanders, whatever seemed a useful teaching tool.
        ''Design demands observation,'' Mr. Castiglioni would explain, Ms. Antonelli said, as though there was easily a life's work in seeing, in the commonplace, what others couldn't.
      