
        Joshua L. Miner, a former boarding school dean who introduced the rugged learning experiences of Outward Bound to the United States, died Tuesday at his home in Andover, Mass. He was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Miner encountered the Outward Bound concept after World War II when, teaching at the Gordonstoun School in Scotland, he met its  originator, Dr. Kurt Hahn, an Oxford-educated German who had been an educational innovator in his country before fleeing the Nazis.
        Mr. Miner accompanied students on some of their confidence-building explorations and, on returning home,  established Outward Bound USA. It began in Colorado, with 80 students, in 1961.
        By its 40th anniversary, 600,000 people had gone through the program in this country. The program now encompasses five ''wilderness schools'' nationwide and two urban centers, in New York and Boston, attracting nearly 40,000 students a year.
        Outward Bound USA also established a program for young people with special needs, serving about 100 public schools. Six hundred more schools, colleges and other organizations also use its techniques.
        Outward Bound takes students on carefully supervised expeditions to places in the wild to emphasize self-reliance and teamwork. They engage in whatever exercises the terrain and the season offer -- like sailing, backpacking or climbing -- the idea being for students to draw on their inner strength and grow from shared experiences.
        Joshua Lewis Miner was born in Plainfield, N.J., attended Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire and graduated from Princeton University in 1943. He served as a captain under Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army in Europe, commanding an artillery battery and earning a Bronze Star and the Croix de Guerre.
        He taught at the Hun School of Princeton before going to Gordonstoun in 1950 as a mathematics instructor and director of athletics under Dr. Hahn's guidance. In 1952 he joined Phillips Academy at Andover, serving as physics instructor, housemaster and athletics coach until 1964.
        He then devoted eight years to building the American branch of Outward Bound as a founding trustee and chairman until 1972. He rejoined Phillips Academy and was its dean of admissions until retiring in 1985. After that and until his death he provided educational consulting services nationwide.
        Mr. Miner is survived by his wife of 54 years, Phebe Ten Broeck Stevens Miner; two daughters, Phebe M. Richards of Costa Rica and Louise M. Miner of Minneapolis; three sons, Joshua L. IV, of Boxford, Mass., John S., of Seattle and Daniel G., of Durham, N.H.; two brothers, Frank C., of Denver, Colo., and Tom M., of Sarasota, Fla.; and 12 grandchildren.
        Mr. Miner scouted sites and helped design Outward Bound expeditions, which meant physical challenges like mountain climbing and canoeing. His own favorite was rafting the Green River in Utah, which he did every summer until about 10 years ago.
        James C. Whitehead, head of the committee to redevelop the World Trade Center site and former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, said his annual trips with an Outward Bound Wall Street auxiliary, some of them with Mr. Miner, had changed his life.
        ''I went on 22 trips over my lifetime, but Josh Miner had more trips than anybody,'' Mr. Whitehead said. ''We learned to rely on the team, that when there were six on a raft and we all had a paddle, we were dependent on each other.''
        Correction:  February 1, 2002, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Joshua L. Miner, founder of Outward Bound USA, misstated the given name of a former chairman of Goldman Sachs who accompanied Mr. Miner on some outdoor trips and who now heads the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. He is John C. Whitehead, not James.
      