
        U Ne Win, the longtime Burmese strongman who seized control of his country in a military coup in 1962 and set up an authoritarian government that transformed his homeland, once one of the most prosperous parts of the British Empire, into one of the world's poorest nations, died yesterday. He was 81.
        Mr. Ne Win died at in his lakeside villa near the capital, Yangon, under house arrest and with only his eldest daughter, Sandar Win, by his side, The Associated Press reported, quoting family members.
        His two other children are abroad, his wife lives separately, and his three grandsons and son-in-law -- Ms. Sandar Win's husband -- are in jail, sentenced to death for plotting a coup against the military junta. Mr. Ne Win was placed under house arrest in March, when the men were jailed.
        Mr. Ne Win (pronounced nay win) was an army general when he and the military men around him overthrew an elected government in 1962. He soon managed to smother democracy in Burma, which was renamed Myanmar in 1989. He jailed hundreds of political leaders without trials, and he swiftly replaced Parliament with a military dictatorship.
        His rule continued for more than a quarter of a century, until a nationwide spasm of mass democracy demonstrations in 1988 led to its collapse. Later that year came the formation of a new and even more repressive military junta, the State Law and Order Restoration Council, and there were recurrent reports that Mr. Ne Win still exercised power behind the scenes.
        D. R. Sar Desai, of the University of California at Los Angeles, wrote in a 1997 book, ''Southeast Asia: Past and Present,'' that despite the official changes after 1988, ''authority remained, at least for the next two years, in the hands of General Ne Win.''
        Mr. Ne Win ruled under various titles, including president from 1974 to 1981.
        He and his advisers framed a drastic program, ''the Burmese Way to Socialism,'' which nationalized trade and industry and expelled Chinese and Indian entrepreneurs. Rice exports, a key sector of the once-prosperous economy, lagged. Black marketeers flourished. By 1968, there was widespread corruption. Although some economic measures were more successful in later years, resentment of government economic policies help lead to the demonstrations of 1988.
        In foreign affairs, the Ne Win government pursued isolationist policies, even though it paid a price in lost foreign investment. Intensely xenophobic and anticolonialist policies also resulted in lost cultural contact with other countries.
        By late 1974, the economy was in such a perilous state that the Ministry of Planning and Finance, despite the earlier isolationism, was seeking international economic aid. This effort was so avid that the radio of the outlawed Burma Communist Party, broadcasting from China, called it ''the ministry of begging.''
        Mr. Ne Win's work methods were sometimes eccentric. He accepted policy advice from numerologists and astrologers. Like many of his fellow citizens, he thought that nine and multiples of nine were lucky numbers, and it is said that as a result, his country's currency came to be printed in denominations of 45 and 90. He was also known for enjoying his leisure, and he often made vacation trips to Europe.
        But he remained intent on dominating his compatriots. As Tillman Durdin, a New York Times correspondent and expert on Asia, wrote in a 1966 book, ''Southeast Asia,'' Mr. Ne Win was ''a husky, hot-tempered, quick-witted martinet driven as much by a strong taste for discipline as by personal ambition.'' Mr. Durdin said he ''regards the type of socialism he practices as a means mostly of organizing and controlling Burmese society, rather than developing it to meet the challenge of a radically changing world.''
        Mr. Ne Win's coup in 1962 ousted U Nu, the magnetic and popular prime minister who led the Burmese through 12 of the first 15 years after their country became independent in 1948. For years, while Mr. Ne Win and his military associates maintained their grip, Mr. Nu urged the re-establishment of multiparty democracy. He died in 1995.
        And yet a lingering craving for democracy played a major role in ending Mr. Ne Win's rule, after the student demonstrations in 1988 touched off a mostly peaceful democracy uprising that plunged the country into chaos.
        Eventually the army intervened and killed hundreds of people while crushing the uprising. The country came to be ruled by a new military junta, which is now headed by Gen. Than Shwe. Today, four decades after the coup, the military still pervades almost every part of Burmese society, all levels of government and every sector of the economy.
        Mr. Ne Win formally retired in 1988.
        The years after the 1988 upheavals were eventful. In 1989, the new junta put the leading pro-democracy leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, under house arrest, but her party won 80 percent of the contested seats in a parliamentary election in 1991. The military government annulled that balloting, but she won the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts to return democracy to her homeland.
        Power, either acknowledged or behind the scenes, was not Mr. Ne Win's by birthright. He was born on May 24, 1911, in the Prome District north of the capital, the son of a relatively low-ranking government official. He was named Shu Maung, meaning ''the apple of one's eye.'' He went to schools in the district and studied two years at Rangoon University, leaving in 1931 without a degree.
        He went on to hold a postal job in Rangoon, now Yangon, while working in a militant nationalist organization and became active in the independence movement. In 1941, he was one of 30 of its members who traveled to an island off China for secret military training by the Japanese.
        He took a new name, Ne Win, meaning ''brilliant as the sun,'' and became an officer in the new Burma Independence Army, whose chief of staff was Gen. Aung San, who came to be idolized by the Burmese. Aung San, the father of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, was assassinated in 1947.
        When World War II spread to Asia late in 1941, Mr. Ne Win returned to Burma. As Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi wrote decades later of her father's troops, ''the march of the B.I.A. into Burma alongside the Japanese troops was an occasion of great pride and joy to the Burmese.''
        By late March 1942, the British-Indian Army in Burma was retreating toward India. The Japanese occupied the country, and as Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi put it, the Burmese, ''who had believed they were about to gain freedom from the British, were shattered to find themselves ground under the heels of their fellow Asian instead.''
        In 1942 and 1943, during the Japanese occupation, what had been the Burma Independence Army went through two reorganizations. The first made Aung San its commander in chief. The second gave it the name Burma National Army and made Colonel Ne Win the army's commander in the important delta region of southern Burma.
        In 1945, while British forces were winning Burma back from the Japanese, they were aided by troops led by Aung San, who had turned against the Japanese. In May 1945, after the Japanese lost Rangoon, it was Aung San's trusted brother officer, Colonel Ne Win, who was chosen to make a radio address to their compatriots. He declared, ''The Burmese Army is not only the hope of the country, but its very life and soul.''
        When the war was over, the British authorities set up a new Burma Army. Ne Win soon became a lieutenant colonel and co-commander of a battalion, and he was quickly promoted to higher posts. Aung San became the equivalent of prime minister, and when he was assassinated in July 1947, he was replaced by U Nu.
        Early the next year, General Ne Win became chief of the general staff and supreme commander of the armed forces. He remained commander until after his coup in 1962.
        Mr. Nu's government faced grave political factionalism and secessionist movements among minority ethnic groups, and Mr. Nu handed over power temporarily to General Ne Win. Under him, the army made progress in bringing back law and order, and in 1960 Mr. Nu was returned to power by a national election -- only to be ousted two years later by the coup.
        Correction:  December 9, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the former Burmese military strongman Ne Win on Friday misstated his age. He was 91, not 81.
      