
        Pierre Peugeot, who made the automaker that bears his family name into a French industrial success story, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 70 years old.
        The company said that Mr. Peugeot had been ill for some time but could not provide additional details about the cause of death.
        Mr. Peugeot was influential in the choice of the two executives, one a banker and the other from the aluminum industry, who engineered Peugeot's transformation from an auto industry also-ran into PSA-Peugeot-Citroën, the company that catapulted past its government-controlled rival, Renault. It commanded the second-largest share of the European market, after Volkswagen.
        In the late 1990's, when the acquisition of Chrysler by DaimlerBenz and of Nissan by Renault appeared to usher in an era of global giants, Mr. Peugeot steeled his family's resistance to a merger or a sale of the company; the family controls 28 percent of the company.
        Pierre Peugeot, born on June 11, 1932, was a great-grandnephew of Armand Peugeot, who in 1885 founded a bicycle shop that would later make cars.
        After obtaining a degree in business administration in Paris, Mr. Peugeot joined the company at its assembly plant in Sochaux.
        In 1959, he moved to Peugeot's headquarters in Paris, responsible for developing assembly plants outside France. By 1964, he was joint director of overseas sales, with responsibility for Europe and North America. He was a member of management that oversaw Peugeot's absorption of Citroën, a major competitor, in 1976, at the behest of the French government. In 1978, the company absorbed Chrysler France.
        After a string of heavy losses in the early 1990's, caused in part by strikes, Peugeot underwent a striking turnaround under Jacques Calvet, the former head of Banque Nationale de Paris, whom the family, led by Mr. Peugeot, hired to run the group.
        In 1997, Mr. Peugeot was the driving force behind recruiting Mr. Calvet's successor, Jean-Martin Folz, a former executive of the Pechiney aluminum group. By then, Mr. Peugeot had moved from management to chairman of the supervisory board, responsible for appointing senior management and setting company strategy.
        Two of his sons, Thierry and Xavier, are now Peugeot executives; a daughter, Marie-Hélenè Roncoroni, is on the Peugeot board.
        Other survivors include his wife, Liliane, and another daughter, Pascaline de Dreuzy
        Mr. Peugeot preferred to leave public statements to his managers. His most difficult years, by his own admission, came at the end of the 1990's, when Peugeot came under pressure to achieve global scale by merging with another carmaker or agreeing to be taken over. The era of family-run auto companies was ending, critics said.
        In an interview at the time, Mr. Peugeot dismissed such talk as ''quite irritating'' and said the family was ''entirely welded together'' in its will to maintain independence.
      