
        Amilcar de Castro, a sculptor who captured Brazil's tempestuous contradictions in geometric parables of massive iron sheets, died on Nov. 22 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. He was 82.
        Mr. Castro, a towering figure in Brazil's art scene, gained prominence in the postwar period when Brazilian sculptors, painters and architects were imbued with ambition to break away from the grip of European artistic traditions.
        Like the futuristic design of the capital Brasília by Oscar Niemeyer and Lúcio Costa or the lush gardens of the landscape artist Roberto Burle Marx, Mr. Castro's work was an original approach to a tropical theme. Critics compared it to steel cutouts of an imaginary alphabet or to giant abstractions of paper airplanes, but his simplicity could be deceptive. An intricate play of shadows and light was central to his designs.
        So was his choice to allow his sculptures to interact with the elements without protective artificial coloring. If rust was his paint, iron was his canvas. His preference for metal that revealed its character as it aged echoed Brazil's inability to mask its historical underpinnings.
        Amilcar Augusto Pereira de Castro, the first of seven children, was born in 1920 in the town of Paraisópolis, in the interior of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais.
        His father was a judge, and Mr. Castro was also expected to embrace a legal profession, but he abandoned legal studies to pursue a career as a sculptor and a graphic artist. He studied under the Brazilian modernist painter Alberto da Veiga Guignard.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Castro moved to Rio de Janeiro, a bustling cultural center that was then Brazil's capital, where he began working as a graphic designer for magazines and newspapers. He became widely known for his redesign of the newspaper Jornal do Brasil.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Castro lived in the United States after receiving a fellowship from the Guggenheim Foundation. He returned to Belo Horizonte, shifting his studio from a cramped office above a stationery store to a larger industrial space, where he had more liberty of movement.
        Belo Horizonte, an industrialized city near large steel manufacturing plants and the third largest in Brazil, was an ideal place for him to work. He ordered the steel directly from two nearby companies, Acominas and Usiminas, and used small cranes to unload the slabs at this studio.
        His last show, held earlier this year at the Armazem gallery in the docks of Rio de Janeiro, included slabs of steel about a foot thick.
        ''If the slabs are not thick enough they don't stand up on their own,'' Mr. Castro told an interviewer.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorcilia Caldeira Castro, and three children.
      