
        Saburo Ienaga, the renegade Japanese historian who for more than 30 years fought his government's efforts to suppress details of Japan's wartime atrocities from school history books, with only partial success, died on Dec. 1 in Tokyo. He was 89.
        Dr. Ienaga's most important victory over a Japanese bureaucracy intent on sanitizing the history presented to schoolchildren came in 1997, when Japan's Supreme Court ruled that the Ministry of Education had acted illegally when it removed references in one textbook to how Chinese prisoners of war were used as guinea pigs in bacteriological experiments during World War II.
        Dr. Ienaga described how Japan's now infamous germ warfare group, called Unit 731, operated on its victims without anesthetics and infected them with serious diseases to determine how long it would take them to die.
        ''I think I have been motivated by guilt, nothing else,'' Dr. Ienaga said nine years ago in an interview in his cluttered house.
        ''Although I was opposed to the war, I did nothing to resist,'' he said, recalling his younger days, when his health kept him out of the military. ''So it can be said that my battle is one of resistance that came later.''
        It was a battle that he usually lost in court, but often won on the airwaves.
        Because lawsuits are relatively rare in Japan, his repeated battles with the Ministry of Education were especially conspicuous. Whenever he emerged from the courthouse, usually wearing a somewhat crumpled hat, reporters and photographers surrounded him. He used his defeats to propel examples of historical whitewashes onto the front pages of Japanese newspapers.
        One infuriated education minister, asked about Dr. Ienaga, contended that he was not a respected historian. ''The first and most important thing for him was that he wanted to maintain his belief, his interpretation of the law,'' the minister, Mayumi Moriyama, said in 1993. ''And his interpretation is not a popular one.''
        Dr. Ienaga succeeded precisely because he did not care whether he was alienated from the Japanese mainstream. ''I did not start this thinking I could win,'' he said. But he added, ''Even if I couldn't win in court, in the court of history I think I have been victorious.''
        He succeeded in forcing the government to commission a new generation of textbooks and to make public the changes it forced on publishers. But in 1993 the Supreme Court ruled that the government was within its rights when it forced Dr. Ienaga to delete uncomfortable details about the Japanese invasions of Korea and Manchuria, and the rapes and killings that accompanied Japan's occupation of Southeast Asia. (In 1989 the courts forced the Education Ministry to give up its effort to tone down references to the Nanking Massacre.)
        Dr. Ienaga was the frequent subject of death threats. Right-wing elements were outraged by his writing, which extended to 40 books, relatively few translated into English.
        Last year a number of mainly American and Canadian politicians and academics nominated Dr. Ienaga for the Nobel Peace Prize. As a result of his campaign, his nominators said, Japanese school textbooks were ''significantly improved in the late 1980's and early 1990's.''
        Born in Aichi Prefecture, Saburo Ienaga graduated from Tokyo Imperial University in 1937 and worked as a schoolteacher in Niigata during the war. He subsequently became a professor at Tokyo University of Education and at Chuo University.
        In his old age, he said, he came to appreciate the power of gaiatsu, or foreign pressure, to bring change to Japan. When the outcry comes from the United States or China or South Korea, he said, the government proclaims its willingness to change.
        ''Unfortunately, the Japanese government is very weak against any pressure from foreign countries but very strong against any criticism from its own people,'' he said. ''So no matter what you do in Japan itself, nothing changes.''
      