
        By appointing William H. Donaldson to succeed the traumatized Harvey L. Pitt as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, President Bush has opted for a time-tested hand with some of the tightest Bush family links that Wall Street has to offer. And Wall Street is applauding the move.
        Indeed, many executives say, Mr. Donaldson, 71, is well placed to take on Wall Street's effort to separate research from banking activities. They point out that the firm that Mr. Donaldson helped found, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, was originally a dedicated research house without any investment banking function.
        But some experts ask if such a Wall Street insider would be ready to sign off on a large fine as part of a global settlement with Wall Street firms. Mr. Donaldson and the Citigroup chairman, Sanford I. Weill, for example, were peers at their respective brokerage firms in the 1960's though they are not described as close friends. His supporters state that Mr. Donaldson's time away from Wall Street will only strengthen his regulatory hand.
        ''Bill is not beholden to anyone,'' said Richard Jenrette, a founding partner of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. ''He knows the cast of characters. We all love Wall Street, and it's painful to see these things such as the decline of research and executive compensation.''
        As a chief executive, Mr. Donaldson has also received criticism for being awarded a $7 million compensation package and diluting corporate governance measures at the health care giant Aetna. Mr. Donaldson served as chief executive at Aetna for 11 months before returning to the board and retiring this April.
        Nevertheless, his establishment credentials are impeccable: he worked for Nelson A. Rockefeller, served in the State Department of the Nixon and Ford administrations under Henry A. Kissinger, was chairman of the New York Stock Exchange in the early 1990's and went on to serve as a chairman and chief executive of Aetna. His directorships have included Honeywell and Philip Morris, and he is the founding dean of the Yale School of Management.
        With gravitas and moral probity to burn, he would seem, in the eyes of the Bush administration, an antidote to Mr. Pitt, who was accused of having too close ties to the accounting industry.
        ''All of Bill's history has been pulling together wildly different constituencies,'' said Dan W. Lufkin, another founding partner of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. ''Yes, it's a hot seat, but this is a man of talent and abilities and he has the trust of everyone whom he has run across.''
        Born in Buffalo in 1931, William Henry Donaldson graduated from Yale in 1953, where he made his first Bush connection with Jonathan Bush, the president's uncle. A member of the Skull and Bones secret society, he was also a decorated marine during the Korean War and went on to earn a degree from Harvard Business School.
        In 1959, he, Mr. Lufkin and Mr. Jenrette founded, with $100,000 among them, the firm known to many today as D.L.J.
        The firm quickly made a name for itself in providing research on small, growing companies. Mr. Donaldson, in fact, started out as a research analyst, and wrote several reports, including one on American Greetings, the card company.
        In 1969, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette became the first Wall Street firm to go public. It was a revolutionary move at the time -- the first instance of a Wall Street partnership's opening itself to outside investors. Mr. Donaldson's supporters cite this event as crucial to inculcating within him a keen understanding of the concerns of the Main Street investor.
        In 1973, Mr. Donaldson was appointed under secretary of state. It was the time of shuttle diplomacy, and Mr. Kissinger, the secretary of state, was not often found in Washington. Mr. Donaldson, his friends say, was something of an aimless figure in Washington then, without a defined role. He spent some time helping with Mr. Rockefeller's transition to vice president and returned to the East Coast.
        In the 1980's he did some leveraged buyout investing through his own company, Donaldson Enterprises. He also did significant work for his alma mater, becoming the founding dean of the Yale School of Management. Mr. Donaldson was a hockey player at Yale and friends say that he plays a brisk set of tennis. He lives in Manhattan with his wife, Jane, and three children.
        In 1991, he was appointed chairman of the New York Stock Exchange. At the Big Board, Mr. Donaldson became embroiled in one effort to get the S.E.C. to lower the standards for allowing foreign companies to list their securities in the United States. Under the rules he wanted to relax, foreign companies have to restate their financial statements so that they conform to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
        While foreign listings flowered as a result, competing exchanges like the Nasdaq flourished as well, attracting a new breed of fast-growing, technology-oriented company that in another time might have chosen to list on the Big Board.
        Mr. Donaldson was succeeded by Richard A. Grasso in 1995 and returned to Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he served as a senior rainmaker of sorts, traveling the world and making client contacts for his old firm. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette was by then a powerhouse, with a specialty in high-yield bonds and other fixed-income areas.
        In February 2000, Mr. Donaldson was drafted to be chief executive of Aetna. A director since 1977, he was called in to replace Richard L. Huber. Mr. Donaldson served until December 2000, when he returned to the board and served on its corporate governance committee until his retirement last April.
        His most recent experience in corporate America put him in the middle of an unusually public dispute over his pay package and his handling of corporate governance issues.
        In the late 1990's, Aetna was struggling with an overload of acquisitions, a sagging stock price and a fierce reaction from doctors angered by its reimbursement policies. John W. Rowe, who followed Mr. Donaldson as Aetna's chief executive, praised him yesterday for making peace with the medical community and restoring employee morale.
        ''The C.E.O. had been fired, the company was doing very badly,'' Dr. Rowe said. ''We were a poster child for bad corporate behavior.''
        But Mr. Donaldson's tenure also set the stage for a challenge earlier this year by some institutional investors, led by Hubert A. Denton, president of Providence Investors, an activist institutional shareholder. Mr. Denton complained in documents filed with the S.E.C. about the compensation Mr. Donaldson received as chief executive -- $7 million in salary and bonus, and restricted stock and stock options worth an estimated $11.6 million, for 11 months' service.
        Mr. Denton was especially critical of Aetna's board for awarding Mr. Donaldson substantial stock options without first publicly disclosing that Aetna had received a letter of interest from a potential merger partner. Aetna's stock, and thus the value of Mr. Donaldson's options grant, rose sharply when news about the potential deal leaked out.
        In its responses to Mr. Denton, Aetna defended its compensation policies as appropriate.
        Mr. Denton and his institutional allies also complained about Aetna's corporate governance, especially the various ''poison pill'' protections it adopted in December 2000 to deter unfriendly takeovers. This October, the company announced substantial changes in its corporate governance, including the elimination of the disputed poison pill.
        William H. Donaldson  BORN -- June 2, 1931, Buffalo  CURRENT HOME -- New York City  EDUCATION -- B.A., Yale University, 1953; M.B.A., Harvard University, 1958. EXPERIENCE -- 1953-55 Marine Corps  1959-73 Chairman and chief executive, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette  1975-80 Dean and William S. Beinecke professor of management, Yale Graduate Management School  1980-90 Chairman and chief executive, Donaldson Enterprises  1990-95 Chairman and chief executive, New York Stock Exchange  1996-2000 Senior adviser, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette  2000-01 Chairman and chief executive, Aetna  CURRENT -- Boards of Bright Horizons Family Solutions and Easylink Services  FAMILY -- Wife, Jane, and three children
        (Source: The Associated Press)
        Man in the News  Correction:  December 13, 2002, Friday  A Man in the News article in Business Day on Wednesday about William H. Donaldson, who has been appointed chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, referred incorrectly to his military service. While he received service and campaign awards as a Marine rifle platoon commander from 1953 to 1955 in Korea, he did not receive individual decorations.
      