
        John Richard Dellenback, a four-term Oregon congressman, Peace Corps director and leader in Christian college education, died on Saturday at a hospital in Medford, Ore. He was 84 and lived in Medford.
        The cause was viral pneumonia, his family said.
        A prominent Rockefeller Republican and lawyer, Mr. Dellenback represented southwestern Oregon in Congress from 1967 to 1974.
        He took a special interest in education and natural resources and wrote the bill that established the Oregon Dunes National Recreation Area in 1972. The legislation shielded a 47-mile stretch of undulating beaches from Florence to Coos Bay, with majestic white dunes that slope as high as 500 feet from the Pacific shore. The measure preserved one of the West Coast's natural treasures.
        While in Congress, Mr. Dellenback sought a balance between energy concerns and conservation. He helped put amendments into the legislative go-ahead measure for the trans-Alaska pipeline, assuring that the pipeline's beneficiaries would be held responsible for any damaging oil spills.
        His run for a fifth term foundered in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal. He fell in 1974 to a Democratic challenger; it was the first defeat of a sitting congressman in Oregon since 1932.
        President Gerald R. Ford kept Mr. Dellenback in Washington as director of the Peace Corps. He held that post until 1977.
        Mr. Dellenback was known among his colleagues on the Hill as a diligent straight arrow who shunned alcohol and tobacco. He had long been active in the work of his Presbyterian Church at home.
        After leaving the Peace Corps, he became president of what was then known as the Christian College Coalition in Washington, an alliance of 10 small evangelical four-year colleges. Under his tutelage, its membership swelled to 77 by the time he left in 1988. (The coalition, renamed the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, now has about 100 members.)
        Born in Chicago, John Dellenback graduated from Yale in 1940 with a degree in economics. He was a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II, then went on to earn a law degree from the University of Michigan in 1949. He taught economic law at the University of Oregon for two years before going into practice in Medford.
        He was elected to the Oregon Legislature in 1960 and served until his election to Congress. He was also a delegate to the Republican National Conventions of 1964, 1968 and 1972.
        Mr. Dellenback is survived by his wife of 54 years, Mary Jane Benedict Dellenback; two sons, Richard L. and David A., of Salem, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara C., of Eugene, Ore.; a brother, Robert J., of Rome, Ga.; and three grandsons.
      