
        To Huu, who was often called the poet laureate of the Communists' victories over the French and the Americans in Vietnam and who went on to high posts in the country's postwar government, died in Hanoi on Monday. He was 82.
        His death was reported yesterday by Agence France-Presse.
        ''He was a great poet who used his poetry as a means to gather and encourage people around the revolutionary cause over the decades,'' said the newspaper Saigon Giai Phong, which is controlled by Vietnam's Communist government.
        To Huu was one of a group of Vietnamese poets who wrote about little else than the Vietnam War, urging people to fight, uphold socialism and defeat the United States. But Nguyen Ngoc Bich, an expert on Vietnamese literature, argued in a 1972 publication that To Huu transcended his peers.
        In a lecture included in a booklet ''Some Aspects of Vietnamese Culture'' (Southern Illinois University, 1972), Mr. Ngoc Bich wrote that To Huu ''alone manages to instill some force and vitality into his work.'' He added, ''The others are no more than hacks.''
        But the poet's ideology was never subtle. In a poem quoted in The New York Times magazine in 1981, To Huu lamented the death of Stalin. It read in part:
        Oh, Stalin! Oh, Stalin!
        The love I bear my father,
        my mother, my wife,
        myself
        It's nothing beside the love I bear you.
        Oh, Stalin! Oh, Stalin!
        What remains of the earth
        and of the sky!
        Now that you are dead.
        Doan Van Toai, the author and a former South Vietnamese dissenter who had come to oppose the Communists, wrote that it seemed ''incredible'' that such a poem could be written in Vietnam, which is known for the strength of family love.
        In To Huu's poem, ''Since Then,'' quoted in ''A Thousand Years of Vietnamese Poetry'' (Knopf, 1975), he wrote of the moment he discovered Communism, ''summer light has burned in me.'' Another poem in the same book celebrates the joys of sabotaging a road.
        To Huu was born Nguyen Kim Thanh in Thua Thien Province in 1920 and educated in Hue, according to ''Dictionary of the Vietnam War'' (Peter Bedrick Books, 1981). He became a Communist as a student in 1938, and was jailed the following year for his political activities.
        He escaped from prison in 1942 and was appointed in August 1945 as a regional information chief for the Viet Minh, the guerrilla opponents of the French colonizers.
        After the defeat of France in 1954 and the partitioning of Vietnam, To Huu became deputy culture minister in the North Vietnamese government. In 1956, he was appointed to the Central Committee of the Communist Party.
        During the war with the United States, he held various positions in the government, including chief of the propaganda, education and scientific boards of the Central Committee organization. In 1976, he rose to the ruling Politburo.
        He became deputy prime minister and was considered a candidate for prime minister until he was dismissed from the cabinet in 1986 for mishandling the economy.
        His ability to combine true lyricism with revolutionary propaganda was his greatest legacy, as suggested by the poem ''Little Luom.'' It tells of his nephew being killed in ''a jet of blood.'' The poem ends gently:
        His cap askew
        he whistled away
        like a warbler
        on a garden path.
      