
        Bill Miller, a nightclub owner who ran Bill Miller's Riviera in Fort Lee, N.J., before moving to Las Vegas and taking many headline acts with him, died on Monday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 98 and lived in Palm Springs.
        After buying the nightclub in 1945, Mr. Miller booked Tony Martin for $10,000 a week, double what the Copacabana was paying. His headline acts included Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Jerry Lewis, Sammy Davis Jr. and Joey Bishop.
        During a show by Tony Martin in 1947, Mr. Miller ran an advertisement in The New York Times that read: ''I'm happy about the whole thing but I wish the Riviera had rubber walls! This new show with Tony Martin has broken every record in our history. But it's also breaking my heart to have had so many friends disappointed when they took a sudden notion to drive over these past few nights. Tell you what, give me a buzz on the phone when you plan to come. If I know you're coming I'll make a place.''
        The Riviera, which overlooked the Hudson River, was closed in 1953, to make room for the Palisades Parkway.
        In Las Vegas, Mr. Miller was entertainment director of the Sahara, Dunes, Flamingo and International hotels.
        During his time at the International, in the late 1960's, it had become the world's largest resort hotel. He retired in the mid-1970's.
        William Miller was born in 1904 in Pinsk, Russia. His father, David, was a building tradesman. When William was a year old, David and his wife, Lena, emigrated with the family to the United States. As a teenager he fell in love with vaudeville, danced professionally until he was 30 and then became an agent.
        ''I brought in people nobody believed could do a nightclub act,'' he said in a 1999 interview with The Las Vegas Review-Journal. ''For instance, do you think you could ever get Mae West to play in a nightclub? I did.'' That was in 1954, when she was over 60, and she was surrounded by male bodybuilders dressed in bathing suits.
        Ralph Young, a Las Vegas performer with his partner, Tony Sandler, said of Mr. Miller, ''He's the last of the most knowledgeable entertainment directors.''
        Mr. Miller is survived by his wife, Denise B. Miller; two daughters, Judith Miller, of New York, a reporter for The New York Times, and Susan Miller, of Desert Hot Springs, Calif.; a stepson, Jerry Johnson, of Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Mollie Vine, of Miami Beach; and two grandchildren. His son, Jimmy Miller, died in the 1990's.
      