
        Dr. Roland B. Scott, a pediatrician and allergy expert who gained international prominence as an authority on sickle cell disease and a champion in the fight against it, died on Tuesday at Washington Adventist Hospital. He was 93.
        Dr. Scott was a driving force behind the Sickle Cell Anemia Control Act of 1971, which established comprehensive research and treatment centers around the country for the disease.
        Dr. Scott, who was chairman of pediatrics at Howard University in Washington from 1949 to 1973, was trained as an allergist but turned his attention to sickle cell anemia in the 1950's after he noticed a high number of African-American children appearing in the Howard Hospital emergency room with complications of the disease, according to colleagues.
        Through his research, Dr. Scott became a pre-eminent authority on sickle cell, a hereditary blood disorder, and lobbied for a national research and treatment effort.
        In 1972, with a grant from the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Scott founded the Howard University Center for Sickle Cell Disease. He was the director of the center until 1990, when he retired.
        ''It is not an overstatement to call him the father of sickle cell disease in this country,'' Dr. William P. Winter, acting director of the Howard center, said yesterday in an interview. ''His role was something of a father figure in that he provided the spark and the drive to keep us on target and striving to achieve our goals.''
        Because of the efforts of Dr. Scott and others, the federal government now spends about $45 million a year on sickle cell disease and sponsors the operation of 10 comprehensive treatment and research centers nationwide, said Dr. Duane R. Bonds, leader of the Sickle Cell Disease Scientific Research Group at the federal health institutes.
        ''Much of what we are doing now is because of his work,'' she said.
        Dr. Bonds said she remembered Dr. Scott more as the pediatrician who treated her when she was growing up in Washington. While spending his days at the university teaching and doing research, Dr. Scott maintained a private practice and saw patients each evening between 6 and 8, she said.
        ''He was an academic by day and a physician who had office hours every night, and he even made house calls,'' Dr. Bonds said. ''He set the standard for what it meant to be a black physician, particularly in the segregated Washington of that day.''
        Dr. Bonds recalled that as a child she once cut her hand severely, and she and her mother sat for hours in a hospital emergency room without being seen quickly because they were black. ''My mother called Dr. Scott and he had us come to his office, where he stitched my hand himself,'' she said.
        Dr. Scott was born in Houston and grew up there and in Kansas City, Mo., where he completed high school. He received his B.S. and M.D. degrees from Howard University.
        In 1939, Dr. Scott was appointed an assistant professor of pediatrics at Howard, and in 1945 he became chief of the department. He served as chairman of pediatrics until 1972, when he became director of the sickle cell center.
        Dr. Scott wrote more than 300 scientific papers on allergy, childhood growth and development, and sickle cell disease. He received numerous awards, including the American Academy of Pediatrics' Jacobi Award for his contributions to child health.
        His wife, the former Sarah Rosetta Weaver, died in 1969 after 34 years of marriage. Survivors include three children, Roland Scott Jr. of Sandia Park, N.M.; Venice Carlenius of Port St. Lucie, Fla.; and Irene Scott of Washington; and two grandchildren.
      