
        William M. Ashby, a fighter for civil rights for more than nine decades and New Jersey's first black social worker, died on Friday at the Brookhaven Nursing Home in East Orange, N.J. He was 101 years old.
        The moment of epiphany in the cause of equality came for Mr. Ashby at the age of 11, when he gazed into the face of a man he knew, hanging from a tree on a street in Newport News, Va.
        "There at the end of a rope, over a limb of a sycamore tree on a gray morning, hung that man," Mr. Ashby wrote 80 years later in his autobiography, "Tales Without Hate."
        "His mouth was open. His tongue stuck out as if he wanted to say something: perhaps, 'Why have you murdered me?' "
        Mr. Ashby became the first black social worker in New Jersey in 1917. Several years later, he founded the state's first Urban League office, in Newark. In the years after World War I, he was instrumental in founding the Newark Welfare Federation and Community Chest, forerunner to the United Way, and the Fuld Neighborhood House. More than 50 years later, he was a co-founder of the Newark Preservation and Landmarks Committee.  William Ashby Day
        In November 1974, he was honored by a mayoral proclamation of William Ashby Day in Newark. Last year, a monument in his honor was dedicated in Newark's Central Ward.
        William Mobile Ashby was born on Oct. 15, 1889, in Carter's Grove, Va., a hamlet that has vanished from modern maps. The eighth of 13 children, he traced his family back four generations and found only free landowners.
        But landowner status did not shield his family from atrocity. His grandfather, Mr. Ashby wrote, was bludgeoned to death by four white men who were jealous of his wealth. In the 1890's, Mr. Ashby's father moved his family by oxcart to Newport News.
        Mr. Ashby attended Lincoln University in Pennsylvania, graduating in 1911. Lincoln had a black student body and a white faculty. "We were well-taught and treated with dignity," Mr. Ashby wrote. "We were always called 'Mister,' a new experience for most of us."
        But Mr. Ashby found that his Lincoln diploma was of little help in securing employment. He became a waiter in Newark. Soon after, he heard Eugene V. Debs, the fiery labor leader, speak at Newark's Labor Lyceum, urging his listeners to serve the oppressed.
        Mr. Ashby applied to Yale University and, in 1916, received a degree in divinity. As a student at Yale, he invited Booker T. Washington to speak at a meeting that turned out to be the great educator's last public appearance. With his Yale diploma in hand, Mr. Ashby was hired as a social worker.
        Soon after, he joined the Urban League, founding the branches in Newark and Elizabeth. In "Tales Without Hate," published in 1981 by the Newark Preservation and Landmarks Committee, Mr. Ashby told of his struggle as founding director of the Newark Urban League to provide jobs for black workers in New Jersey industry.
        He also explained the book's title: "To hate, one must generate in himself a degree of mental and emotional animosity. Why should I make myself miserable by always being mad at somebody? There is no one whom I am better than and no one better than I am."
        Mr. Ashby's wife, Mary, died in 1988. Their only child, Catherine, died in 1942.
      