
        Sholom D. Comay, the president of the American Jewish Committee and a civic leader in Pittsburgh, died on Saturday while driving with his wife to their country home in Chautauqua, N.Y. He was 53 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, a family friend said.
        Mr. Comay was re-elected this month to a third one-year term as president of the Jewish committee, which is widely regarded as the dean of Jewish civil and human rights organizations in this country. For the last year he led a major reorganization of the group to trim expenses and sharpen its efforts in education, interfaith relations and public policy.
        In starting the restructuring 15 months ago, Mr. Comay, a lawyer and corporate executive, said that the committee's board had agreed that the organization had branched off into too many areas and instead would concentrate its efforts on reducing bigotry, strengthening the Jewish family, seeking peace in the Middle East and enhancing ties between the United States and Israel.  Helping His Hometown
        Sholom David Comay was a native and lifelong resident of Pittsburgh. He earned a bachelor's degree at Brandeis University, where he later became a member of the president's council, and earned a law degree at the University of Pittsburgh, where he was book review editor of the law review.
        He was a partner in the Pittsburgh law firm of Kaufman & Harris from 1963 to 1975 and a city housing court magistrate from 1967 to 1971. In 1975 he joined Action Industries Inc., a marketer of housewares and giftware promotional programs, and became chairman last July.
        Mr. Comay was noted for creating consensus in law, business and philanthropy. He was chairman of the Pittsburgh Foundation, which shaped many civic programs, a trustee of the Harmarville Rehabilitation Center, treasurer of the United Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh, a board member of the Pittsburgh Symphony and the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater and a former president of the Health and Welfare Planning Association of Allegheny County. His honors included the 1978 Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Surviving are his wife, Estelle Fisher Comay, a lawyer; his mother, Ethel, of Pittsburgh and Tel Aviv; a daughter, Laura, of San Francisco; a son, Joseph, of Boulder, Colo., and a sister, Debby Comay, a lawyer, of Pittsburgh.
      