
        He was the reluctant Gandhi, content on the political sidelines as his mother and brother strained to command an immense and diverse nation.
        But his brother's death in 1980 and his mother's assassination in 1984 forced Rajiv Gandhi, the untested and unheralded heir, to gather up the Gandhi mantle. His career was turbulent and stained by sectarian bloodshed, and he finally lost the family fief -- the Prime Minister's post -- in 1989.
        In recent months, seeking a comeback in Indian politics, he campaigned with vigor, mixing comfortably with the people. It was this taste for proximity that led Mr. Gandhi, the last of his fabled political line, toward the deadly trap -- a bomb at a campaign rally -- laid by assassins yesterday in southern India. He was 46 years old.
        Mr. Gandhi won his brother Sanjay's seat in Parliament in 1981 after Sanjay's death in the crash of a stunt plane a year earlier. And he became general secretary of the Congress Party in 1983 and its president in 1984.
        He became Prime Minister after his mother, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, was assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards. He was seen as an appealing political ingenue, and he carried his party to a record victory in 1984.
        As Prime Minister, Mr. Gandhi sent Indian troops to the neighboring nation of Sri Lanka in an attempt to quell communal conflict between that country's Tamil ethnic minority and the majority Sinhalese. But India then became bogged down in a stalemated 30-month conflict with Tamil militants in Sri Lanka. It ended early in 1990 -- half a year after Mr. Gandhi stepped down as Prime Minister -- when the Indian expeditionary force went home.
        Sri Lankan Tamil militants, refugees from their homeland, live in the south Indian state of Tamil Nadu -- where Mr. Gandhi was killed -- and have been blamed for violence there linked to the current elections. But the Indian Government did not immediately accuse any communal group of carrying out yesterday's assassination. Son and Grandson Of Prime Ministers
        Mr. Gandhi was the grandson of another Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, who was independent India's first Prime Minister, serving from 1947 to 1964. The Gandhi family was not related to Mohandas K. Gandhi, the spiritual leader of Indian independence, who was assassinated in 1948.
        Politically uneasy and untested when thrust into power after the assassination of his mother, Mr. Gandhi led India through a turbulent time of economic progress marred by rising sectarian violence. He sought with only partial success to reach political accommodations for India's many ethnic and religious divisions.
        He took office pledging to forge a more cooperative relationship with India's neighbors, but ended up spending much of his time quarreling with them and carrying out military buildups to defend India against perceived threats from China and Pakistan.
        Under Mr. Gandhi, the Government lowered taxes, lifted economic regulations and moved toward warmer ties with the United States and the West, although these were strained by periodic disputes, like the one over the American aid program for Pakistan.
        The Prime Minister maintained India's historically close friendship with the Soviet Union, winning new economic and military aid from Moscow.
        In the process, Mr. Gandhi grew from a reticent young amateur politician to an increasingly confident if besieged administrator, championing his nation's leadership in the developing world and espousing modernization to prepare India for the 21st century.
        He continued to advocate honesty and integrity in government, but also came under fire for alleged involvement in scandals, including charges that his Congress Party benefited from kickbacks in overseas military contracts. The charges did much to besmirch his image as a Mr. Clean, although the accusations were not proved.
        A former engineering student and airline pilot whose lone early ambition had been to fly a Boeing jet, Mr. Gandhi developed a low-key style that was initially popular with the Indian people and the elites of the cities, especially business leaders.
        Later, he came to be seen by many in the urban middle class and intellectuals as highhanded and impetuous toward bureaucrats, politicians and critics in the press.
        Mr. Gandhi made little secret of his distaste for the professional practitioners of politics and government, a trait that many found endearing, especially when it was expressed in a humorous way.
        He remained a loner, exhibiting little inclination to mingle with the established politicians with whom an Indian Prime Minister, like any political leader, is expected to be friendly. Always Popular With Rural Crowds
        But in rural areas, he was immensely popular, judging from the elated crowds of hundreds of thousands of people he drew. Their support also sustained the Prime Minister in times of rising criticism and defensiveness.
        The criticism and restraints of office often took their toll. The Prime Minister would sometimes break free from his motorcade, get behind the wheel of his jeep or car, and drive at high speeds, outrunning the cars accompanying him. Sometimes such episodes led to accidents in the motorcade.
        Once he got out of his car at an airfield and, as security aides gasped, put on a parachute and ordered himself pulled by a jeep so he too could practice air sailing with a group of air force men, flying alone high above the ground.
        Usually wearing the white tunic and pajama trousers or buttoned Nehru suit that was the uniform of the Congress Party since before independence, Mr. Gandhi spoke with a reedy voice and slight smile as he exhorted Indians to work for national unity, secularism and greater government accountability.
        He sounded these themes from the moment he took office, a time of crisis as the nation mourned the slaying of his mother by two Sikh security guards, and Hindus rioted against Sikhs in New Delhi and throughout the northern part of India. Thousands of Sikhs were killed, their homes, businesses and farms burned to the ground.
        Mr. Gandhi's greatest early triumphs were steps seen as binding the wounds from the traumatic circumstances of his taking office. Among these were several political accords negotiated with groups that had bitterly tangled with his mother in the final years of her life.
        The best-known of these was the 1985 agreement with moderate Sikhs jailed by Mrs. Gandhi in 1984 when she sent the army into the Golden Temple at Amritsar, the Sikh religion's holiest shrine, to rout Sikh radicals who were using the place as a sanctuary and arms depot. The accord paved the way for elections won by Sikh moderates, and they assumed control of the northern state of Punjab and sought to cope with killings by militants.
        But the rising violence involving Sikhs in Punjab remained the greatest unsolved problem that Mr. Gandhi faced, and he felt forced in 1987 to remove the government and assume rule of the state and of the campaign against Sikh violence.
        There were also political agreements with other longtime foes of Mrs. Gandhi, including rebellious leaders in the states of Assam, Mizoram, and Jammu and Kashmir.
        But many party regulars complained about Mr. Gandhi's practice of making concessions to former political foes. They found vindication when the Prime Minister lost a string of state legislative elections in the years after his initial landslide victory in the parliamentary elections. A Boy Raised In Nehru's Home
        Rajiv Gandhi was born on Aug. 20, 1944, in Bombay, three years before India achieved independence under the leadership of his grandfather, Nehru, and two years after his mother married Feroze Gandhi, a journalist and later a member of Parliament.
        The marriage had many strains, and the couple separated. The boy grew up in his grandfather's household, while his father lived nearby in a bungalow. Feroze Gandhi died in 1964, after imparting what many said were qualities of calmness and fair-mindedness to his son.
        Mr. Gandhi once recalled that despite his political pedigree, politics was spoken of very little around the house.
        "Even after I came into politics, we have never discussed it in the family drawing room or across the dining table," he once told an interviewer. "If it had to be talked, it was talked businesslike, elsewhere."
        Colleagues and friends said Mr. Gandhi was more influenced by his years at the Doon School, a preparatory academy in Dehra Dun, in the foothills of the Himalayas. The school was founded in 1935 by British educators as an Indian version of Eton and Harrow, the English prep schools.
        In school, he took up photography, and childhood friends recall that he spent hours in the darkroom, even then developing a reputation as a loner.
        After graduating, he went on to Trinity College at Cambridge University in England to study engineering, but by his own admission was a poor student and failed his requirements.
        Friends recalled that his bookshelves held volumes on science and engineering, not on philosophy, politics or history. He said he was not very interested in "mugging for my exams." Finding Italian Wife While in England
        In England, he met Sonia Maino, daughter of a construction industry executive from Turin, Italy, who was studying English at a private language school. "I could find an inner beauty in him," she once said. "He was somewhat different from others, deeper and wiser than his outward looks."
        Friends said that at first, Mr. Gandhi's mother doubted her suitability as a wife for her son but later became very close to Sonia. The two were married in New Delhi in 1968. Years later, when Indira Gandhi was killed, it was her daughter-in-law who sped to her side while Rajiv was out of town.
        She was once asked whether she ever resented having such a "towering" presence as a mother-in-law and replied, "My upbringing is such that I felt my husband was superior to me and his mother even more superior."
        The Gandhis had two children, now teen-agers -- a son, Rahul, and a daughter, Priyanka.
        Upon returning to India from Cambridge, Mr. Gandhi took up his greatest passion, flying. He joined the Delhi Flying Club and went on to obtain a commercial pilot's license, becoming a pilot in the domestic carrier, Indian Airlines. He had no intention of joining politics.
        Throughout the 1970's, he stayed on the sidelines, while Mrs. Gandhi relied on Sanjay, his younger brother, as a confidant and operative. Sanjay became an important figure after 1975, when Mrs. Gandhi suspended civil liberties and arrested thousands of political foes in the so-called emergency period.
        It was not until 1980 that Mr. Gandhi was forced to enter politics, when Sanjay died. Mrs. Gandhi had just won election as Prime Minister after being out of power for three years following voter disapproval of her emergency rule.
        Mrs. Gandhi joined politics reluctantly -- "Mummy has to be helped somehow," he was quoted as saying -- winning election to Parliament from his brother's district in Amethi, a small town on the Ganges River plain in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh.
        As a legislator and even as a member of his mother's inner circle, Mr. Gandhi failed to develop a distinct public identity. But behind the scenes, he assisted his mother by screening her appointments, advising her on reorganizing her office and trying to breathe new life into a moribund party organization.
        Soon party leaders came to recognize his influence and cultivated him, and Mrs. Gandhi also grew increasingly reliant on his advice. He won praise for organizing the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi. In February 1983, when Mrs. Gandhi appointed him party secretary, people began assuming that she was grooming him as her political heir.
        In early 1984, he was laying the groundwork for the party's election campaign later that year, while developing a public image as an upholder of higher moral standards and enforcer of discipline and accountability. A Good Start In Premiership
        Then on Oct. 31, Mrs. Gandhi was struck down. and at the age of 40, Mr. Gandhi was sworn in by President Zail Singh. The public's first impression of him was that of a young man calmly assuming power and behaving with sober dignity and restrained grief at his mother's cremation on the banks of the Jamuna River in the capital, and then as a young man in a hurry, eager to get on with his own agenda.
        In December 1984, after he campaigned thousands of miles by plane, helicopter, car and jeep to hundreds of rallies before millions of people, his party won an unprecedented sweep of 80 percent of the seats in Parliament.
        Mr. Gandhi shifted tone and adopted a more conciliatory approach that was to be the hallmark of his first year in office. He made a point of consulting opposition leaders and signaled his willingness to break from the past by ousting most of his mother's top advisers from his inner circle.
        "Our administrative system must become more goal-oriented," he declared. "A new work ethic, a new work culture must be evolved in which the government is result-bound and not procedure-bound. Reward and punishment must be related to performance."
        After a few months in office, Mr. Gandhi also began to reach out to the 15 million Sikhs who felt victimized by the anti-Sikh riots after the assassination, and many other actions taken to be an infringement on their rights.
        First, he released important leaders of the moderate Sikh party from prison, and then in the summer of 1985 struck a deal on their demands for greater access to river waters in the northern state of Punjab, release of thousands of other detainees, and granting of the city of Chandigarh as the exclusive capital of the state.
        The accord was hailed as an example of Mr. Gandhi's flexibility, and it paved the way for the moderate Sikhs to win the Punjab election that fall.
        Mr. Gandhi's political fortunes took a sharp turn for the worse in the spring of 1987, when his party lost two more state elections. At midpoint in his term, he was finding himself under growing criticism. His aides also expressed disappointment that his foreign policy was increasingly troubled by quarrels with India's neighbors. His Distrust Of Politicians
        On economic policy, Mr. Gandhi sought to steer a middle course between the left-leaning, socialist wing of his party that looked to the state as the engine of economic growth, and those business-oriented associates who felt that Indian progress had been impeded and strangled by government control.
        Early on, Mr. Gandhi made little secret of his distrust for both politicians and bureaucrats. "The fact is that in this place, nobody feels responsible for anything," he once said. "I mean, I can't tell you what sort of problems we face in government -- this has not been done, that has not been done, a lapse here, a goof-up there. Nobody thinks they are responsible. I mean, it is just accepted."
        In public, Mr. Gandhi generally kept his emotions to himself. Where his mother was histrionic and indulged in flashes of temper, he rarely allowed his private life or personality to come out.
        It was in his travels to rural areas inhabited by low-caste villagers or aboriginal tribespeople that he seemed most comfortable, often getting behind the wheel of his own jeep to head on to side roads not on his official itinerary to talk to people about their problems.
        Inevitably on his trips, Mr. Gandhi had to worry about security threats. Given the circumstances of his mother's death, there were always fears that he might be assassinated. An attempt on his life occurred in October 1986, and Mr. Gandhi let it be known that he was incensed at the poor security that allowed a gunman to get within a few feet and fire.
        He was often asked if he ever feared his own assassination.
        "These things don't worry me," he said once. "Honestly."  ASSASSINATION IN INDIA
      