
        Hoang Van Hoan, a founding member of the Vietnamese Communist Party who defected to China in 1979, died in Beijing on Saturday, China's official press agency reported today. He was 86 years old.
        China's evening television news said Mr. Hoang had been hospitalized since January with a lung infection.
        Mr. Hoang's defection dramatized the divisions in the Vietnamese party in the 1970's over its growing reliance on Moscow and hostility to China, which had aided the Vietnamese Communists in their long war against France and the United States. He Left 'With Sorrow'
        Mr. Hoang was purged from his top party posts in 1976 for his pro-Chinese views, but did not defect until after the brief Vietnamese-Chinese border war in early 1979. He left Vietnam for a medical checkup in Berlin, and disappeared on a refueling stop in Pakistan.
        He later appeared in Beijing, where he accused the Vietnamese Communist Party Secretary, Le Duan, of being corrupt and dictatorial.
        "I, a revolutionary, can no longer remain silent," he said at a news conference. "I can no longer serve the people in Vietnam and had to leave my country with bitterness and sorrow."
        Along with Ho Chi Minh and others, Mr. Hoang helped found the Indochinese Communist Party in 1930, and set up the Vietminh United Front to fight against French colonial rule in 1941.
        He was his nation's first Ambassador to China, from 1950 to 1957.
        The Chinese television report described Mr. Hoang as "a respected old friend of the Chinese people." It said the Chinese Communist Party's General Secretary, Jiang Zemin, and other top officials had visited him in the hospital.
        After his initial defection statements, Mr. Hoang went into a quiet retirement in Beijing. The official press mentioned him only occasionally as meeting with Chinese leaders.
        Vietnam and China remain estranged, but talks are believed to be taking place in secret. The main obstacle is Cambodia, which Vietnam invaded in 1978. It ousted the Chinese-backed Khmer Rouge and installed a Government that continues to fight Chinese-backed Cambodian guerrillas.
      