
        Jacob Clayman, a former president of the Industrial Union Department of the AFL-CIO and retired president of the National Council of Senior Citizens, died Friday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 86 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said his daughter, Miriam Yale of Silver Spring.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Clayman was president emeritus of the National Council of Senior Citizens. His last years had been spent lobbying on behalf of the aging and his organization had won major legislative gains in defense of the Social Security System and played an important role in the 1981 White House Conference on Aging.
        As a longtime senior official at the AFL-CIO, Mr. Clayman took the lead in its reorganization in the 1970's. He sought ways to coordinate with international unions in dealing with multinational companies. Protest Organizer
        In 1975, as executive director of the Industrial Union Department, he organized the large job rally in Washington to protest high unemployment and press for a nationwide public works program.
        Born in Boston, he moved to Niles, Ohio, and worked his way through Oberlin College as a steel worker. He went on to the University of Michigan, receiving a law degree in 1930.
        He began practicing law in Detroit, then returned to Niles, where he practiced labor law. In 1941, he was elected to the Ohio Legislature.
        In 1943, he became general counsel to the Ohio State Congress of Industrial Organizations and was elected full-time secretary treasurer of the organization in 1948. He served in that post until the organization merged with the American Federation of Labor in 1955. After the merger, he was named special assistant to the president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers in New York.
        He returned to Ohio in 1958 to take part in labor's successful fight against a proposed anti-union law. He then served the Ohio State AFL-CIO as its representative at the State Legislature and practiced law with his bother, David, in Columbus.
        Mr. Clayman was appointed the administrative director of the Industrial Union Department in 1960.
        A founder of the Consumer Federation of America, he was named the first president of the advocacy group in 1968. He also served on the board of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, president of the National Civil Liberties Clearing House and vice president of the American Immigration and Citizenship Conference.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen, of Silver Spring; two daughter, Miriam and Cece Kurtz of Denver; two brothers, Philip of Columbia, Md., and David of Columbus; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      