
        Kieran E. O'Doherty, a founder and the first state chairman of the Conservative Party of New York, died on Friday at University Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 64 years old and lived in Hampton Bays, L.I.
        He died of complications after receiving a heart transplant, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. O'Doherty and J. Daniel Mahoney, a brother-in-law, were prime movers in founding the Conservative Party in 1962. They acted primarily to challenge liberal legislation championed by Nelson A. Rockefeller, then the Republican Governor of New York.
        Mr. O'Doherty relinquished the party chairmanship to Mr. Mahoney within several months to seek a Senate seat, but received only 116,151 votes. Two years later, he got only 9,941 votes in a vain challenge to John V. Lindsay in Manhattan's 17th Congressional District. Despite these early setbacks, the Conservatives gained increasing power in the 1960's in influencing Republican politics and winning state elections.  Practiced Law in Manhattan
        In 1966, Mr. O'Doherty was the party's candidate for lieutenant governor when it overtook the Liberal Party as the state's third party by gaining a larger vote.
        Kieran Edward O'Doherty was a native of Manhattan who served in the Army infantry in Europe in World War II. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated from the City College of New York in 1950 and from the Columbia University School of Law in 1953.
        He practiced law in Manhattan, primarily with the firm of Royall, Koegel, Harris and Caskey until 1962, when he left to establish and build the Conservative Party. In later years, he was a member of the Federal Government's Postal Rate Commission and a counsel to the House Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service.
        Mr. O'Doherty was a founding director of the drug-rehabilitation center Daytop Village and had, in recent years, practiced law and operated a real-estate business in Hampton Bays with his wife, the former Mary O'Boyle.
        Surviving, besides his wife, are a brother, James, of White Plains, and two sisters, Kathleen Mahoney of Milford, Conn., and Sheila Favara of North Brunswick, N.J.
      