
        Gunnar Johansen, a Danish-born pianist of extraordinary energy and scope, died on Saturday at his home in Blue Mounds, Wis. He was 85 years old.
        He died of liver cancer, said his wife, Lorraine Johnson Johansen.
        Mr. Johansen was the first musician to be appointed artist in residence at an American university. He held that post at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, from 1939 to 1976, during which he not only taught at the school, but also performed several extended series of concerts on the university's radio station.
        Among these were traversals of the Schubert and Beethoven Sonatas and the complete keyboard works of Chopin and Mozart. In one notable series, he traced the evolution of Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsodies" from their earliest versions to their finished form.
        In the 1950's, he shifted the focus of his performing activity from radio concerts to recording. He established his own label, Artist Direct, and produced a vast discography that includes 50 albums of Liszt works, 43 albums of Bach -- performed on the piano, harpsichord, virginals and a double-keyboard piano -- and 7 recordings each of the piano music of Ferruccio Busoni and Ignaz Friedman.  Hundreds of Compositions
        He was also a prolific composer. A catalogue of his works includes hundreds of solo piano pieces, with 31 sonatas, 3 concertos and several choral works. Among his recordings are some 400 sonatas he improvised before the microphones, compositions he called tape tapestries.
        Mr. Johansen was born in Copenhagen on Jan. 21, 1906. His father gave him his first piano lessons when he was 10 years old, and two years later he undertook a tour of Scandinavia. In 1920, he went to Berlin, where he studied with Egon Petri and Frederic Lammond. During the late 1920's, he toured in Europe, and in 1929 he moved to San Francisco, where he was engaged to play weekly radio recitals by NBC.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Johansen began touring with what he called the Historical Series, a dozen concerts that traced the history of keyboard music. It was after he played the series at the University of Wisconsin in 1937, that he was invited to become the school's artist in residence.  New York Debut Acclaimed
        After he settled in Madison, Mr. Johansen cut down on his touring. But when he did tour, his performances were invariably praised not only for their technical polish and their direct expressivity, but also for the breadth of his programming. When he made his New York debut at Town Hall in 1947, a New York Times critic, Noel Straus, admired his "ravishingly beautiful tone, unique in its velvetiness and limpidity," and noted that his interpretations "exhibited a rare combination of intellectual keenness, emotional warmth and sensitivity."
        In 1989, reviewing the Friedman recordings Mr. Johansen made in his early 80's, Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The Times about an "aristocratic style that tells us what Romantic piano playing really was about."
        Mr. Johansen's performances of Busoni's piano concerto and solo works, in New York and elsewhere during the mid-1960's, were also widely admired. But perhaps his most famous performance took place in 1969, when he learned the rarely played piano version of Beethoven's violin concerto on 24 hours' notice for a New York performance with Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra.
        Music was not Mr. Johansen's only field of endeavor. In 1960, alarmed by what he regarded as an unhealthy trend toward specialization, he established the Leonardo Academy, an interdisciplinary study institute named for Leonardo da Vinci. The academy did not have a home base, but presented seminars on topics including cancer research, nutrition, aeronautics and fusion at various universities in the United States. Among the participants in these seminars were Buckminster Fuller and Edward Teller.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two nephews, Sven Johansen of Copenhagen and Per Johansen of Paris.
      