
        H. Struve Hensel, an international lawyer who served in high Navy Department posts during and after World War II and who was later an Assistant Secretary of Defense, died Monday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 89 years old and lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Hensel had been a lawyer in Manhattan for 15 years, serving with the firms of Cravath, Swaine and Milbank, Tweed, when he was called to Washington in 1940 to organize and serve as first chief of the Navy's legal division for procurement. Toward the end of the war he became the Navy's general counsel and assistant secretary for materiel procurement.
        He returned to practicing law as a senior partner in Carter, Ledyard & Milburn in Manhattan, but in 1952 he returned to Washington and became a general counsel in the Defense Department, later moving up to Assistant Secretary for international security affairs.
        In 1954 he was briefly involved in the dispute between Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin, and Robert T. Stevens, the Secretary of the Army, that led to the celebrated Army-McCarthy televised hearings.
        The Senator charged that Mr. Hensel had been guilty of misconduct and possible violation of the law during the war while in charge of Navy procurement for helping to organize a ship-supply company selling "priority goods."
        Mr. Hensel called the charges "barefaced lies." The Senator was never publicly called by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which he headed, to give evidence in support of the allegations. Mr. Hensel was not given an opportunity to testify in answer to the charges.
        Shortly after, the subcommittee voted to dismiss the misconduct charges against Mr. Hensel, with the four Republican members voting for dismissal and the three Democrats objecting.
        In 1955 Mr. Hensel left the Defense Department and took up law practice in Washington. From 1966 to 1977 he was a partner in the law firm of Coudert Brothers, serving international clients. He remained active in legal and corporate affairs until shortly before his death.
        Mr. Hensel was born in Hoboken, N.J., graduated from Princeton University and the Columbia University Law School.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Isabel Sproul, whom he married in 1945, died in 1987.
        He is survived by a brother, Paul, of Englewood, N.J., a stepson, Albert Howe 3d, of Freehold, N.J., and two step-grandchildren.
      