
        Northrop Frye, the Canadian literary theorist, critic and educator who was noted for his systematic and erudite studies of myth and symbolism as the unifying models of Western literature, died on Wednesday at his home in Toronto. He was 78 years old.
        Professor Frye died of a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for the University of Toronto, where he had taught for half a century. He lectured regularly until last month despite having cancer treatments at Toronto's Mount Sinai Hospital.
        The professor, who tracked voluminous themes and images to the Old and New Testaments, was hailed by many scholars and reviewers as the most brilliant and influential proponent of symbolist literary criticism in English. Detractors termed some of his writing turgid and pedantic reworkings of his earlier theories in efforts to rebut critics.
        Mr. Frye, an unassuming man with a sly, self-deprecating humor, influenced scholars, students and critics around the world and sparred with many leading literary figures. Over the decades, he was a visiting professor at many universities, including Harvard, Princeton, Columbia and Oxford, and received 36 honorary doctorates.
        Major works among his two dozen books were "Fearful Symmetry," a benchmark study of works by the visionary poet William Blake, published by Princeton University Press in 1947; "Anatomy of Criticism" (Princeton, 1957); "The Great Code: The Bible and Literature" (Harcourt, 1982), and "Words With Power: Being a Second Study of 'The Bible and Literature' " (Harcourt, 1990). The Literary Critic's Service
        Professor Frye conceived of literature as a total history rather than a linear progression through time, and he viewed the Bible as the font of Judeo-Christian myths, symbols and values, with overriding themes of quest and salvation.
        The literary critic serves society, he said, by interpreting and decoding its historical fables. Literature, he wrote, is "the place where our imaginations find the ideal that they try to pass on to belief and action, where they find the vision which is the source of both the dignity and the joy of life."
        The critical study of literature, the professor wrote, provides a basic way "to produce, out of the society we have to live in, a vision of the society we want to live in."
        Marshall McLuhan, the communications theorist who was a colleague at the University of Toronto, said years ago: "Norrie is not struggling for his place in the sun. He is the sun."
        Frank Kermode, an English critic, wrote in The New Republic on June 9, 1982, "We have no living critic who can match Frye's intellectual scope or drive." Literature and Society
        Margaret Atwood, a novelist who studied with Professor Frye, offered this tribute yesterday in The Globe and Mail in Toronto: "He did not lock literature into an ivory tower; instead he emphasized its centrality to the development of a civilized and humane society."
        Mr. Frye, who was a minister in the United Church of Canada, received this tribute from Harold Bloom, a fellow professor and writer, in The New York Times on April 18, 1976:
        "Frye is the legitimate heir of a Protestant and Romantic tradition that has dominated much of British and American literature, the tradition of the Inner Light, by which each person reads Scripture for himself or herself without yielding to a premature authority imposed by Church or State or School. This is Frye's true greatness, and all who teach interpretation are indebted to him for precept and for example."
        Herman Northrop Frye, the son of a hardware merchant, was born on July 14, 1912, in Sherbrooke, Quebec, and grew up in Moncton, New Brunswick. He was an honors graduate in philosophy and English at Victoria College at the University of Toronto, studied theology at Emmanuel College there and was ordained in 1936.
        He was the pastor of a prairie congregation in Saskatchewan, but soon decided his true calling was teaching. He studied literature for three years at Merton College in Oxford University, earning a master's degree in English, then began a lifetime career at the Univeristy of Toronto.
        Professor Frye's wife of 49 years, the former Helen Kemp, died in 1986. His only immediate survivor is his second wife, the former Elizabeth Brown, a Toronto classmate, whom he married in 1988.
      