
        Jerzy Kosinski was a maverick, an eccentric, a celebrity who was an intimate of many other celebrities, a Polish-born novelist who immigrated to the United States at age 24 and achieved perhaps his greatest success with his first novel.
        That work was "The Painted Bird." Published in 1965, when he was 32 years old, it graphically and movingly depicted the dreadful journey of a young Eastern European boy who is sent to the distant countryside by his parents to escape the Nazis at the start of World War II. It has been called a classic of Holocaust fiction.
        The boy, called only the Gypsy, is abandoned and left to wander through a nightmare world where he is beaten, starved, demeaned, tortured and brutalized by the vicious and ignorant peasants he encounters.
        The boy, the author said, was Kosinski himself, and the novel was the fictionalized version of the horrors he encountered. "Every incident is true," he once contended.
        Mr. Kosinski's personality was complex, shaped largely by his terrible childhood, by his legacy as a Holocaust survivor and by his life after the war under Communist suppression in Poland. He was once described as a "displaced person in an uncharted landscape," a phrase he himself used to describe the main character of his novel "Passion Play."
        Disguises and False Identities
        He was well known for his vivacity, but he was equally well known for his eccentric behavior, about which he often boasted. He created for himself many disguises and false identities, the product of a paranoia that he openly discussed.
        "I have hiding places everywhere," he once said. "If I were alone in your apartment for half an hour, I'd find a hiding place there."
        Critics have noted that all his protagonists were in one way or another like himself and that much of his work was autobiographical. His second novel, "Steps" (1968), a tale of violence and repression in his native Poland and the pain of adjustment to the technological society of the United States, won the National Book Award. Hugh Kenner, writing in The New York Times Book Review, said that "Celine and Kafka stand behind this accomplished art."
        After "Steps," Mr. Kosinski achieved only limited critical success as a novelist, but he had already attained a certain celebrity and clung to it. Once describing himself as a "first-class second-rate novelist," he was a constant presence at literary parties and social gatherings in New York, and he became a colleague of the rich and the famous, numbering among his friends Warren Beatty, Zbigniew Brzezinski and Henry Kissinger.
        Help for Imprisoned Writers
        Mr. Kosinski, however, used his status for purposes other than self-publicity. He was elected president of the American Center of PEN, the international writers group, in 1973, and served two terms, until 1975. Working through PEN and the International League of Human Rights, he often worked for the release of imprisoned writers. He also defended humanitarian causes through the American Civil Liberties Union.
        Jerzy Nikodem Kosinski was born on June 14, 1933, in Lodz, Poland, the only child of well-off Jewish parents.
        When the Nazis occupied Poland in 1939, the 6-year-old Jerzy was sent by his parents to the remote countryside where, he later said, he began the brutal adventures that were mirrored in "The Painted Bird."
        Mr. Kosinski received master's degrees in sociology and history at the University of Lodz in the mid-50's and became an assistant professor of sociology at the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw.
        For a long time, he and his parents -- with whom he had been reunited -- wanted to leave Poland legally, as immigrants to Israel, but they failed in their attempt. So, Mr. Kosinski often said, he sent bogus letters to various authorities urging that they sponsor him for a research project in the United States.
        Parents Remain in Poland
        Finally, in 1957, he succeeded, but his parents remained behind.
        In 1958, he received a grant to study sociology at Columbia University, where he was a postgraduate student until 1965. His first two books, collections of essays that dealt with political behavior, were "The Future Is Ours, Comrade" (1960) and "No Third Path" (1962). They were published under the pseudonym Joseph Novak.
        With the publication of "The Painted Bird," attacks on Mr. Kosinski began and continued in later years. Its depictions of brutality were described as slanderous in his native Poland. In 1982, a front-page article in The Village Voice tried to discredit Mr. Kosinski's writings. The authors of the article said that he had hired editors who virtually wrote his novels for him and that the Central Intelligence Agency "apparently played a clandestine role" in the publication of his first two books.
        Mr. Kosinski and many others vigorously denounced the reports as unfounded, and they were never proved.
        Many critics said that after Mr. Kosinski's early successes, the quality of his writing diminished steadily. His novels of the 1970's and 1980's were generally not well received.
        Some critics also deplored the way he treated women in his novels, saying that it was violent and degrading. But Mr. Kosinski vehemently denied the charge. "It is simply not true that women in my novels are victimized," he once said. "There is no gratuitous sex or violence."
        On the Screen in 'Reds'
        His 1971 novel "Being There" was made into a film in 1979. Mr. Kosinski himself also appeared in a movie, as the Bolshevik villain Grigory Zinoviev in "Reds" in 1981.
        His novels also include "The Devil Tree" (1973), "Cockpit" (1975), "Blind Date" (1977), "Passion Play" (1979), "Pinball" (1982) and "The Hermit of 69th Street" (1988). In 1970, he received the American Academy of Arts and Letters award for literature.
        Mr. Kosinski was a Guggenheim Fellow at Wesleyan University and later taught American prose at Princeton and Yale. At his death, he was a fellow of Timothy Dwight College of Yale, chairman of the Polish-American Resources Corporation in New York and president of the Jewish Presence Foundation, which he started in 1988. He was also a co-founder of the American Bank in Poland.
        Mr. Kosinski and his first wife, Mary Weir, were divorced in 1966. She died in 1968. In addition to his current wife, Katherina von Fraunhofer-Kosinski, who is known to her friends as Kiki, Mr. Kosinski is survived by a stepbrother, Dr. Henry Kosinski, of Lodz, Poland.
        Ms. Fraunhofer-Kosinski said yesterday that at her husband's request no funeral service would be held.
      