
        Wilfrid Hyde-White, the English actor who appeared in films including "My Fair Lady," "Ten Little Indians," "The Third Man" and "The Browning Version," died yesterday in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 87 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital, where he had been a patient since 1985, said Louella Benson, a spokeswoman for the Motion Picture and Television Fund.
        Mr. Hyde-White was especially well known for his urbane drollery, in such roles as the father of the title character in the play "The Reluctant Debutante," which he performed in London and then, in 1956 and 1957, on Broadway.
        Reviewing that drawing-room comedy, Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times said Mr. Hyde White gave a "brilliant performance" as the head of a frantic household -- "relaxed, quizzical, neat, funny." Of 'Certain Tricks'
        The actor told an interviewer at the time: "The premise of the drollery has to be firm. It is allowed to
        look
        leisurely, but actually my technique is hidebound by method. I really don't take chances onstage. My style of acting is made up of certain tricks acquired over many years."
        Those, he said, included lowering his voice if audiences were noisy or sleepy. The worst thing to do is outshout them, he said, and if they are sleeping, do not awaken them, thereby eliminating a few critics.
        "The suaveness," he said, "isn't born of confidence: it's born of fright."  Comedies on the Stage
        Mr. Hyde-White, who was born in Gloucester, began his career in a series of comedies produced during the late 1920's at the Aldwych Theater in London, then began his film career as a stuffy burgomaster in "Rembrandt."
        He played a professor in "The Third Man" (1950) and the headmaster in "The Browning Version," the 1951 film based on Terence Rattigan's play. In "My Fair Lady" (1964), he played Henry Higgins's associate.
        In 1952, he appeared in New York with Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh in "Caesar and Cleopoatra" and "Antony and Cleopatra." In 1973, he played an urbane marquis on Broadway in "The Jockey Club Stakes," a British comedy.
        His American television credits included a brief run in the 1960's nighttime soap opera "Peyton Place." He also starred as Emerson Marshall in ABC's lawyer comedy series "The Associates" and appeared as Dr. Goodfellow in "Buck Rogers in the 25th Century."
        He is survived by his wife, Ethel; two sons, Alex and Michael; a daughter, Juliet, and four grandsons.
      