
        Colman M. Mockler Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of The Gillette Company since the mid-1970's, died yesterday at his office in the Prudential Tower in Boston. He was 61 years old and lived in Wayland, Mass.
        He died of a heart attack, a company spokesman said.
        Mr. Mockler joined Gillette in 1957 as staff assistant to the controller after two years with the General Electric Company and two years as a research associate at the Harvard Business School. He became Gillette's treasurer in 1965, moved up to vice president in 1967, then senior vice president, executive vice president, vice chairman of the board and, in 1974, president. He was promoted to chief executive officer the next year and chairman in 1976. A Steadying Hand
        Mr. Mockler brought a steadying financial hand to Gillette when he took the helm. The company, founded in 1901 and solidly lodged as the world's largest producer of safety razors and blades, had become multinational, selling Right Guard antiperspirants, Toni home permanents and a line of stationery products, including Papermate pens.
        Three years ago Mr. Mockler successfully resisted an attempt by a New York-based investment firm, the Coniston Group, to take over Gillette in a proxy fight.
        He announced last fall that he would retire at the end of 1991.
        Mr. Mockler, born in St. Louis, was a graduate of Harvard College and held a master's degree from the Harvard Business School. Since 1982 he had been a member of the Harvard Corporation, the university's governing body, and from 1975 to 1981 he was a member of Harvard's Board of Overseers, the last two years as president.
        He also served as chairman of the Corporation of Simmons College, as an overseer of the New England Medical Center, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the Boston Symphony Orchestra and as a trustee of the New England Conservatory of Music.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Joanna Sperry, whom he married in 1957; two sons, Colman 3d of Amesbury, Mass., and Andrew, of Provincetown, Mass.; two daughters, Joanna Hyde of Gales Ferry, Conn., and Emily Ryan of Dallas; two sisters, Mary Ann Malone of Manhattan and Christine Mikes of Harvard, Mass.; a brother, Robert, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      