
        Rudolf Serkin, one of the most revered pianists of his time and a founder of the Marlboro Festival, the summer music series in Vermont, died on Wednesday night at his Vermont home after a long illness. He was 88 years old.
        He died of cancer, his wife, Irene, said.
        Mr. Serkin frequently had to cancel performances in recent seasons. His last appearance in New York was a Carnegie Hall recital on April 9, 1987, but in 1988 he played Beethoven's "Emperor" Concerto with both the Chicago and Cleveland orchestras.
        Although not considered by keyboard connoisseurs to be one of the great naturally equipped pianists, Mr. Serkin triumphed over nature to become a superb technician and a musician of exalted stature, held in awe by colleagues and idolized by audiences.
        He joined the international elite while still a teen-ager and by incessant, tireless practice held ranking for more than half a century as an artist of the highest type. He was an eminent 20th-century representative of a Viennese tradition that mingled the classical and romantic styles of pianism. Onstage a Piano Tamer
        Mr. Serkin, coming onstage for a recital, approached the piano on the bias, like a lion tamer approaching a dangerous animal. He walked with short, almost running steps to the instrument, smiling nervously and throwing quick glances at floor and ceiling as if looking for a way to escape. His eyes bugged behind thick glasses, and with his astonished look and halo of thin gray hair he could have been taken for a piano-playing Dr. Seuss.
        Once he was planted in place at the keyboard, his struggles became obvious to the eye, and often audible. Both at his recitals and in his recordings his seemingly anguished voice could be heard moaning and grunting out the melodies. He rocked perilously on the bench and sometimes flung both feet wildly in the air as he pawed for the pedals. He glowered. He smiled beatifically. He bounced. He smote the recalcitrant keys, sometimes producing ugly tones.
        And yet, Mr. Serkin overcame. His technique could be dazzling, thanks to his lifetime of monastic labor. Even in late years, when his interpretations grew mellower and more introspective, his daily regime remained rigorous: he used to say that only after five hours did he warm up and really begin to practice. His hands were large and heavy, with a tremendous spread between fingers. His fingers were extraordinarily thick, which caused difficulties when they had to play in the thin spaces between black keys. So he practiced scales and arpeggios endlessly, contending it was impossible to overemphasize technique. He disdained an older German romantic approach, which he felt stressed "feeling" at the expense of clean fingerwork.
        Oddly, Mr. Serkin came to be regarded by some critics as a titan of the emotional school, while by others as a sternly Olympian, cerebral artist. He could be, in fact, both. Abram Chasins, in "Speaking of Pianists," summed up the Serkin enigma thus: "Just as you conclude that here is an artist who makes his appeal to the mind rather than to the heart, that his forte is the classic rather than the romantic literature, Serkin will play Schumann's 'Abegg Variations' or the Mendelssohn G minor Concerto with a glowing tenderness and springtime ardency that convince you that this is the very first time you have ever really heard these works." Intensity and Dedication
        Mr. Serkin could indeed play with a warm, sonorous tone at one moment, then suddenly grow excited and begin to bang. Intensity and dedication were his trademarks. The New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg, reviewing a Serkin performance of Brahms's "Variation on a Theme of Handel" in 1963, heard in it "piano playing of sheer grandeur, the kind that sets the standard to which all must aspire."
        Mr. Serkin, at least in his American years, was not a particularly enterprising program maker. His recitals tended to cleave to the verities: Beethoven, Mozart, Brahms, Schubert, Schumann -- or more rarely, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Reger, Bartok.
        Among the dozens of recordings he made, those in which he teamed as a chamber-music partner with Adolf Busch, the German violinist, are especially prized by collectors. It was Mr. Busch who promoted the young pianist's European career, presenting him as a soloist in Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 5 at Mr. Serkin's Berlin debut in 1921.
        Mr. Serkin, recalling this in the magazine Clavier, said: "I was 17 years old. At tne end of the concert, because it had been a great success, Busch pushed me out, saying I should play an encore. 'What shall I play?' I asked. 'The Goldberg Variations,' he replied, as a joke. (Without repeats, the Bach work takes half an hour to perform.) And I took him seriously. When I finished there were only four people left: Adolf Busch, Arthur Schnabel, Alfred Einstein  [ the musicologist ]  and me."
        Mr. Serkin regarded Busch as one of the three musicians who most deeply influenced him. The others were his onetime composition teacher, Arnold Schoenberg, and the conductor Arturo Toscanini. In 1935, Mr. Serkin married Irene Busch, the violinist's daughter, herself an accomplished violinist who was then 18 years old. First Music, Then Words
        Mr. Serkin was born on March 28, 1903, the fifth of eight children, in the Bohemian town of Eger, Austria, now called Cheb and situated in Czechoslovakia near the north Bavarian German border. His father, Mordko Serkin, had been a Russian basso and taught Rudolf to read music before he could read words. The boy chose piano over the violin, the one alternative offered, because he disliked having the violin sound so close to his ear.
        He first played in public at age 5 or 6, he recalled, at the spa of Franzenbad, where his program included the Schubert Impromptu in E flat (Op. 90, No. 2). Later, in Vienna, the boy played for the pianist Alfred Grunfeld, who invited him to move to Vienna and study with his friend Richard Roberts. Rudolf was then 9 years old. One of his fellow pupils, with whom he formed a lifelong friendship, was George Szell, the late conductor.
        Mr. Serkin studied composition, first with Joseph Marx and later with Schoenberg, and published a string quartet. He made his concert debut with the Vienna Symphony at 12, playing the Mendelssohn G minor Concerto. Academically, he had no formal education but read hungrily in many subjects.
        At 17, Mr. Serkin met Busch, who was looking for a pianist to accompany him in a concert. They struck up a friendship and Busch took the younger musician along with him to Berlin on tour. Busch was then 30 years old and internationally established as a violinist. Soon Mr. Serkin was appearing in the great cities of Europe both as accompanist and as chamber-music performer with the Busch Chamber Players.
        Another of Mr. Serkin's idols at this time was Ferruccio Busoni. Hoping to study with the famous Italian composer and pianist, Mr. Serkin played for him only to be advised that 17 was too old to take piano lessons. Frequent concert appearances were advised instead. Brush With the Nazis
        In April 1933, with the Nazis in the ascendancy in Germany, Busch stirred a controversy by refusing to appear at a Brahms centennial celebration in Hamburg. Although not Jewish himself, he was offended because a young Jewish pianist had been denied permission to play. The pianist was Rudolf Serkin.
        Mr. Serkin had moved with the Busch family to Darmstadt in 1922. (Besides Adolf, the family included Fritz, the conductor, and Herman, the cellist.) In 1927 they all left Germany and settled near Basel, Switzerland. After Hitler's rise to power, they applied for Swiss citizenship, which they held until all became American citizens in 1950.
        Mr. Serkin first played in the United States in 1933, with Busch at a Coolidge Festival concert in the Library of Congress in Washington. He did not perform here again until his formal debut in New York on Feb. 20, 1936, when he appeared as soloist with the New York Philharmonic under Toscanini. His recital debut came on Jan. 11, 1937, at Carnegie Hall. The next year Mr. Serkin and Busch performed the complete cycle of Beethoven sonatas at Town Hall.
        In 1939, Mr. Serkin joined the piano faculty of the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, where he taught for 36 years. From 1968 to 1975, he was director of the institute.
        Great though Mr. Serkin's success was as a concert pianist, perhaps his most lasting impact on musical life was as a teacher and inspirational force. In 1949, he helped found the Marlboro Festival in Vermont. Living in the same area at the time were Adolf and Herman Busch, Blanche Honegger Moyse, Louis Moyse and Marcel Moyse, all renowned musicians who had also left Europe. They merged their talents and quickly turned Marlboro into an American chamber-music mecca and a magnet for talent. Dedicated Musicianship
        The word Marlboro came to stand for musicianship of a special, ardent type. Each summer, Mr. Serkin and his circle were joined by like-minded artists, including Pablo Casals, Alexander Schneider, Felix Galimir, Mieczyslaw Horszowski, Jaime and Ruth Laredo, Eugene Istomin, Pina Carmirelli and Peter Serkin (Mr. Serkin's son, himself a world-class pianist).
        At Marlboro, Mr. Serkin made a point of being a musician among colleagues, as ready to turn pages for other players as to perform, and also perfectly willing to fire back with a wet paper napkin in an impromptu dinner-table duel. Friends of Mr. Serkin -- and he seemed to have no enemies -- spoke with incredulity of his unfailing good humor, his shy and sweet-tempered manner with everyone, the unknown as well as the famous. A longtime colleague, after giving the phenomenon some thought, remarked: "It's impossible to talk about anybody's being saintly in this age, but Serkin is."
        Mr. Serkin performed twice at the White House, in 1966 and 1970. President John F. Kennedy awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the National Council on the Arts, and held honorary doctorates from the Curtis Institute, Harvard University, Williams College, the University of Rochester, the New England Conservatory, Marlboro College, Temple University, Oberlin College and the University of Vermont. In 1972 he was named an honorary member of the New York Philharmonic and in 1986 celebrated his 50th anniversary as a guest artist with the orchestra. In 1984, the French Government named him a Chevalier in the Legion of Honor.
        Though Mr. Serkin's importance as a performer and catalyst tended to overshadow his role of teacher, the list of his students is illustrious. It includes his son Peter, who made his Carnegie Hall debut at 12 playing a Mozart double concerto with his father, and Eugene Istomin, Seymour Lipkin, Anton Kuerti, Lee Luvisi and Richard Goode.
        Besides his wife, who regularly joined the music-making at Marlboro, playing violin and viola, and his son Peter, he is survived by another son, John; four daughters, Ursula, Elizabeth, Judith and Marguerite, and 11 grandchildren.  The Maestro on Compact Disk
        Rudolf Serkin made dozens of recordings in the course of a long career. Those in this selective discography are available on compact disk. The Telarc and Deutsche Grammophon recordings were made during the 1980's; the EMI/Angel and CBS/Sony are earlier recordings that have recently been reissued on CD.  Beethoven: Piano Concertos (with the Boston Symphony Orchestra; Seiji Ozawa, conductor; Telarc)  Beethoven: Sonatas for Violin and Piano, Nos. 5 and 7 (with Adolf Busch; EMI/Angel)  Beethoven: "Pathetique," "Moonlight" and "Appassionata" Sonatas (Sony/CBS)  Brahms: Sonatas for Cello and Piano (with Mstislav Rostropovich; Deutsche Grammophon)  Brahms: Piano Concertos (with the Philadelphia Orchestra; Eugene Ormandy, conductor; Sony/CBS Odyssey) <el2Haydn: Sonata No. 50 and Reger: Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Bach. (Sony/CBS)  Mozart: Piano Concertos Nos. 19 and 20 (with the Columbia Symphony Orchestra; George Szell, conductor; Sony/CBS)  Mozart: Piano Concertos Nos. 21 and 23 (with the London Symphony Orchestra; Claudio Abbado, conductor; Deutsche Grammophon) Schubert: "Trout" Quintet (with Jaime Laredo, violinist, Philipp Naegele, violist, Leslie Parnas, cellist and Julius Levine, bassist; CBS)  Schumann: Piano Concerto (with the Philadelphia Orchestra) and Piano Quintet (with the Budapest String Quartet; Sony/CBS)
      