
        Henry E. Petersen, a career official in the Justice Department who conducted the initial investigation of the Watergate break-in that led to the resignation in 1974 of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Wednesday at his home in Sunderland, Md. He was 70 years old.
        He died of emphysema, his family said.
        Mr. Petersen was chief of the Justice Department's criminal division in June 1972, when the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in the Watergate Hotel complex in Washington was burglarized. He remained in charge of the investigation until the following May, when Archibald Cox was appointed Special Prosecutor in the case. Investigation of Agnew
        Mr. Petersen also supervised a 1973 investigation by the United States Attorney's office in Baltimore that uncovered evidence of malfeasance on the part of Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, who resigned after pleading no contest to a charge of income tax evasion.
        As chief of the Justice Department's organized crime and racketeering section in the late 1960's, Mr. Petersen took the lead in coordinating the activities of several Federal agencies to create strike forces against organized crime.
        Mr. Petersen was born in Philadelphia and lived in Washington in his youth. He served in the Marine Corps in the South Pacific in World War II before graduating from Georgetown University and receiving a law degree from Catholic University.
        In 1947, while still a student, he worked as a clerk at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, beginning a Justice Department career that was to last 27 years. He served in the department's antitrust division before joining its criminal division, in which he held a series of posts that led to his apointment in 1972 as Assistant Attorney General in charge of the division. A Tough Prosecutor
        Mr. Petersen, who had built a reputation as a tough prosecutor, came under pressure from both opponents and supporters of Mr. Nixon as White House involvement in the Watergate break-in unfolded. In the early stages of the inquiry Mr. Petersen was criticized for being overly protective of the White House, but no one ever contended that he had been party to the cover-up that brought down the President.
        Mr. Petersen believed that he, as chief of the Justice Department's criminal division, should have been permitted to continue the Watergate investigation to its conclusion. But he lost out to Congressional demands for a special prosecutor.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Joan King; four daughters, Jacqueline Swanson of Washington, Jane Mongelli of Greenbelt, Md., Joan Zucconi of Silver Spring, Md., and Anne Petrisek of Manassas, Va.; three sons, Thomas, of Bowie, Md., Stephen, of Manassas, and Vincent, of Salisbury, Md.; a sister, Margaret Whitesed of Riverdale, Md., and 13 grandchildren.
      