
        Jack Schaefer, a newspaperman turned author of westerns whose most well-known work was the novel "Shane" about a gunfighter who sacrifices himself for a young boy and his family, died Thursday at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Schaeffer, who lived in Santa Fe for the last 20 years, died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Louise Deans Schaefer.
        Mr. Schaeffer was the author of dozens of thoroughly researched western tales and also an editor of anthologies of western stories. But it was for the short novel, "Shane" his first, published in 1949 and the movie made from it in 1953 starring Alan Ladd that he would be remembered.
        The story, seen through the eyes of a young boy, deals with a gunfighter who tries to hang up his guns but is drawn to the side of the boy's family and other homesteaders in their struggle to keep from being forced off their land by cattlemen. Westerns 'Tautly Told'
        In a review of Mr. Schaefer's collected novels in the New York Times, Thomas Lask in 1967 wrote "Jack Schaefer is not a writer of conventional westerns," adding that his novellas "tautly told and tightly constructed" have "additional ingredients that make for complex story telling."
        Before he began researching "Shane," he had never been farther west than Cleveland, where he was born Nov. 19, 1907, the son of a lawyer. He majored in English at Oberlin College and received his bachelor's degree in 1929.
        He studied at Columbia University for a year, then worked as a reporter for the United Press wire service, editorial page editor for the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot and Baltimore Sun, and editor of the New Haven Journal-Courier.
        His other books include: "First Blood" (1953); "The Canyon" (1953); "Company of Cowards" (1957); "The Kean Land and Other Stories" (1959); "Heroes Without Glory: Some Goodmen of the Old West" (1965); "The Collected Stories of Jack Schaeffer" (1966), and his last work, "The American Bestiary: Notes of an Amateur Naturalist" (1975).
        In his later years, he turned to writing about nature, Mrs. Schaefer said.
        Aside from his wife, whom he married in 1949, he is survived by a daughter and three sons from his first marriage, Carl of Mansfield Center, Conn., Christopher of Taos, N.M. Jonathan of Santa Fe, N.M.,and Emily Susann of Oakhurst, Calif.; two sisters, Dorothy Teare, of Lakewood, Ohio; Catherine McEwen, of Whittier, Calif.; a brother, Richard of St. Louis, 11 granchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      