
        Sir Angus Wilson, who once said he never intended to become a writer and yet ultimately did so to great popular and critical acclaim, died Friday in Bury St. Edmunds in southeast England.
        He was 77 years old and died after suffering a stroke in a nursing home where he had lived for several years, according to Malcolm Bradbury, a friend and colleague.
        Best known for his biting observations of middle-class life, Sir Angus ranked among Britain's most distinguished authors.
        "He was one of the four or five great English postwar writers," Mr. Bradbury told The Associated Press. "His novels are very witty and satirical, quite often malicious."  More Than 50 books
        A prolific author, Sir Angus published more than 50 books, including novels, biographies and collections of short stories, as well as articles, radio scripts and plays for the stage and television.
        Among his better known novels were "No Laughing Matter," "The Naughty Nineties," "As If By Magic" and "Setting the World on Fire." His biographies included "The World of Charles Dickens" and "The Strange Ride of Rudyard Kipling."
        At the time of Sir Angus's death, interest in his work was undergoing a revival. Mr. Bradbury said Penguin Classics was reprinting some of the novels, with two of them being adapted for films.
        "It had always been my intention not to write books," Sir Angus once said. "I used to say that too many people wrote, and I still do."
        But, after serving in intelligence for the Foreign Office during World War II and then suffering a nervous breakdown, he decided in 1946 to try writing on weekends as an exercise.  An Instant Success
        His first volume of short stories, "The Wrong Set," was an instant success. His first novel, "Hemlock and After," was about the moral and physical decay of a novelist. Ernest Jones, reviewing it in the Nation, called the book a brilliant analysis of homosexual society.
        While writing, Sir Angus also worked as the deputy superintendent of the British Museum's reading room, in charge of replacing 300,000 books destroyed by bombing. Later he became a professor of English and chairman of the department at the University of East Anglia in Norwich. Mr. Bradbury succeeded him in that post.
        Among the honors his work earned him, Sir Angus was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1958, became a commander of the British Empire in 1968 and was knighted in 1980. He also had served as chairman of the National Book League and president of the Royal Society of Literature.
        There are conflicting accounts of where Sir Angus Frank Johnstone-Wilson was born. The Associated Press said he was a native of Durban, South Africa, but a 1959 issue of Current Biography listed his birthplace as Bexhill, Sussex. Published profiles said he lived part of his youth in South Africa, where his mother was from.
        He was educated in England at Westminster School and later at Merton College, Oxford, where he studied medieval history. During his student days he supported left-wing causes and joined the Labor Party.
        Sir Angus was one of five brothers, but none of his obituaries published in London listed any survivors. Biographical accounts do not mention any spouse or children.
      