
        Kenneth H. Klipstein, a former president of the American Cyanamid Company and a longtime New Jersey civic leader, died on Friday at the Meadow Lakes Retirement Home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 91 years old.
        He died of emphysema and respiratory failure, his son, David, said.
        Mr. Klipstein, a native of East Orange, N.J., earned a bachelor's degree in economics and a master's degree in chemistry at Princeton University. He started his career at his father's company, E. C. Klipstein and Sons, of Carteret, early manufacturers of dyes and other chemical products, from 1924 until 1933, when it merged with American Cyanamid.
        At American Cyanamid, his posts included general manager of research, executive vice president and then president from 1961 to 1965, when he retired. He was the founding chairman of the Chemical Industry Council of New Jersey and the recipient of many professional awards.  Founder of Conservation Group
        In 1954, he founded the Ernest Christian Klipstein Foundation of New Vernon, N.J., in honor of his father. The philanthropy provides annual grants in higher education, cultural programs and conservation. He was its president at his death.
        Mr. Klipstein was a founding member and longtime trustee of the New Jersey Conservation Foundation and also a trustee of the Morristown Memorial Hospital and the Newark Museum. He was a former board member of the National Industrial Conference Board, the Newark College of Engineering Research Foundation and the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce.
        He had previously been a director of eight utilities, banks and other corporations, and the president of both the Blooming Grove Hunting and Fishing Club in Hawley, Pa., where he maintained a home, and of the Mountain Lake Club in Lake Wales, Fla.
        His first wife of 53 years, the former Doris Gubelman, died in 1980. His second wife, the former Anne D'olier Pitney, died in 1984.
        Besides his son, who lives in San Diego, Mr. Klipstein is survived by five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      