
        Cranston E. Jones, a writer and editor with Time and People magazines for 38 years and an author of books on architecture, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer of the esophagus, his daughter, Abigail, said.
        Mr. Jones was a staff member of Time from 1945 to 1969, serving variously as a correspondent in San Francisco, London and Paris and as bureau chief in Rio de Janeiro. He was editor in chief of Travel and Leisure magazine for several years and then a senior editor with People until he retired in 1988.
        Among his books were "Architecture Today and Tomorrow," published in 1961 by McGraw-Hill; "Homes of the American Presidents" (McGraw-Hill, 1962) and "Marcel Breuer: Buildings and Projects, 1921-1961" (Praeger, 1963). He was honored several times for journalistic excellence by the American Institute of Architects.
        Discussing "Homes of the American Presidents," Mr. Jones said in a 1963 interview that "their value is in being typical of their time as a marvelous sociological study in conventional good taste," but not "as examples of the best architecture of the time, with the possible exception of Jefferson's Monticello." He added ruefully, "Not one of the 20th-century Presidents has lived in a house that could be called modern."
        He contributed many articles on architecture and art to national publications and edited "Walking Tours of New York," published in 1961 by the Museum of Modern Art, and "The Best of People: The First Decade" (Fawcett Columbine/Ballantine, 1984).
        Cranston Edward Jones was born on March 12, 1918, in Albany and grew up in neighboring Greenwich, N.Y. He was a graduate of the Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and of Harvard College, where he was a champion fencer. In World War II he served in the Navy's Pacific fleet, rising to lieutenant and commanding the destroyer escort Crouter.
        Surviving, besides his daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, are his wife, the former Jean Campbell; a son, Baird, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      