
        Rear Adm. Thomas D. Davies, retired, a navigation expert, aviator and disarmament official, died Monday at a hospital on the Caribbean island of St. Martin, where he was vacationing. He was 76 years old and lived in Potomac, Md.
        He died of a viral infection, his son Thomas said.
        Admiral Davies was president of the Navigation Foundation, a Maryland-based group devoted to the preservation of the art of navigation. At the behest of the National Geographic Society, it conducted an examination of the documents connected with the polar expedition of Comdr. Robert E. Peary. Its finding, in 1989, was that Peary, Matthew Henson and their Eskimo guides had reached the near-vicinity of the North Pole on April 6, 1909.
        Ever since Peary's claim of discovering the North Pole was made, it had been disputed. The foundation study arose from a charge that Peary had falsified his position and that he was actually about 121 miles from the Pole at the closest point.
        The charge, by Dennis Rawlins, a Baltimore astronomer who had long disputed Peary's claim, was based on a piece of paper from the Peary archives that contained numerical notations. Mr. Rawlins concluded that they were navigational notes of sextant readings.  Finding on Peary Expedition
        After the study, however, Admiral Davies said the numbers were the serial numbers on chronometers that Peary used on a 1906 expedition.
        The admiral, a 1937 graduate of the United States Naval Academy, had a varied naval career as an aviator. In World War II he served in antisubmarine patrols in the Atlantic and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for sinking a German submarine.
        He received a second medal for making a record-setting flight from Perth, Australia, to Columbus, Ohio, in 1946 in a Navy P2V Neptune. He also served as commander of an air fleet and a carrier division and Chief of Naval Development.
        He retired from the Navy in 1973 to accept a Presidential appointment as Assistant Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, a post he held for seven years.
        He is survived by his wife, Eloise; three sons, Thomas, of Annapolis, Md., an architect; Douglas, of Potomac, Md., a lawyer, and Donald, of Palo Alto, Calif., an administrator at Stanford University; a daughter, Meredith, of Chestertown, Md., director of public relations for Washington College, and four grandchildren.
      