
        Howard Butcher 3d, a leading stockbroker and entrepreneur in Philadelphia for almost 70 years, died Wednesday at a medical facility at Beaumont, a retirement community in Rosemont, Pa. He was 89 years old and lived in Villanova, Pa.
        He died of cancer, said his son, Howard Butcher 4th.
        Mr. Butcher graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1923. A few days after graduation, he joined Butcher & Sherrerd, a brokerage firm founded by his father. He was made a partner in 1929, and within a few years he had convinced his father that no broker could hope to weather the Depression if he depended solely on a commission business in listed stocks.
        He began to invest in gas companies and railroad bonds. Over the years, Mr. Butcher helped build Butcher & Singer, as the firm became known, into the largest investment house in Pennsylvania.
        Some of his most successful deals included the creation of IU International, a conglomerate with annual revenue of more than $3 billion, and his purchase in the 1930's and 1940's of shares in C. Brewer & Company, a Hawaiian sugar plantation and insurance company that grew into a $300 million conglomerate.
        In 1962, Mr. Butcher owned 150,000 shares in the Pennsylvania Railroad and was named a director. Though lucrative for a time, the investment soured and in 1970 the giant railroad filed for bankruptcy. Mr. Butcher's firm was later charged by the Securities and Exchange Commission with advising selected clients to sell the railroad's stock just before it collapsed. In 1972, the firm, in an agreement with the securities commission, set up a $350,000 escrow fund to help pay off losses incurred by stockholders.
        In 1975, Mr. Butcher contributed $250,000 to a $2.6 million fund set up to settle litigation against former directors of Penn Central, who had been accused of issuing false financial statements and misleading proxy material over a period of years.
        Mr. Butcher was also known for his philanthropy, especially to the University of Pennsylvania. He had served as a trustee of the university and chairman of its hospital.
        His first wife, Elizabeth, died in 1972. He is survived by his second wife, the former Elizabeth S. Taulane; three sons, Howard 4th of Penn Valley, Pa., Jonathan of Elverson, Pa., and McBee of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; a brother, W. W. Keen Butcher of Chestnut Hill, Pa.; three sisters, Mary Louisa Hill of Greenville, Del., Margaret Butcher of Chestnut Hill, Md., and Florence Harris of Gladwyne, Pa.; and 13 grandchildren.
      