
        Jack Schaefer, a newspaperman turned author of westerns whose best-known work was the novel "Shane," died Thursday at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Schaefer, who had lived in Santa Fe for the last 20 years, died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Louise Deans Schaefer.
        Mr. Schaefer wrote dozens of thoroughly researched westerns and was also an editor of anthologies of western stories. But it is his first novel, "Shane," published in 1949, and the movie that was made from it in 1953 starring Alan Ladd, for which he will be best remembered.
        The story, seen through the eyes of a young boy, deals with a gunfighter who tries to hang up his guns but is drawn to the side of the boy's family and other homesteaders in their struggle to keep from being forced off their land by cattlemen. Westerns 'Tautly Told'
        In a New York Times review of Mr. Schaefer's collected novels, Thomas Lask wrote in 1967 that "Jack Schaefer is not a writer of conventional westerns," adding that his novellas, "tautly told and tightly constructed," had "additional ingredients that make for complex storytelling."
        Before he began researching "Shane," Mr. Schaefer had never been farther west than Cleveland, where he was born Nov. 19, 1907, the son of a lawyer. He majored in English at Oberlin College and received his bachelor's degree in 1929.
        He studied at Columbia University for a year and then worked as a reporter for the United Press news agency, as editorial page editor for The Virginian-Pilot in Norfolk, Va., and The Baltimore Sun, and as editor of The New Haven Journal-Courier.
        His other books included "First Blood" (1953), "The Canyon" (1953), "Company of Cowards" (1957), "The Kean Land and Other Stories" (1959), "Heroes Without Glory: Some Goodmen of the Old West" (1965), "The Collected Stories of Jack Schaefer" (1966), and his last work, "The American Bestiary: Notes of an Amateur Naturalist" (1975).
        In his later years, he turned to writing about nature, Mrs. Schaefer said.
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1949, he is survived by a daughter and three sons from an earlier marriage: Carl of Mansfield Center, Conn.; Christopher of Embudo, N.M.; Jonathan of Santa Fe, and Emily Susann of Oakhurst, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Sharon Deans and Stephani Schaefer of Albuquerque, and Claudia Pfeiffer of Aberdeen, S.D.; two sisters, Dorothy Teare of Lakewood, Ohio, and Catherine McEwen of Whittier, Calif.; a brother, Richard of St. Louis; 11 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      