
        Sir Isaac Wolfson, a British business leader and philanthropist, died on Thursday at his house in Rehovot, Israel, his main residence in recent years. He was 93 years old and had been a longtime resident of London.
        He died in his sleep, family members said.
        Sir Isaac, the Glasgow-born son of a cabinetmaker who had fled Russia, was praised by a British Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, for his "princely generosity" as a philanthropist. He was made a baronet in 1962.
        A short muscular figure, he once observed modestly, in his Glasgow accent: "I am no legend or anything like that. I worked with all my fingers. That's my secret."  Established Foundation
        By the time Queen Elizabeth bestowed his baronetcy, he had built his chief company, Great Universal Stores, into what was said to be the largest mail-order concern in Europe. It was then also operating about 2,200 stores in Britain dealing in men's, women's and children's wear and numerous other items -- many of which it manufactured itself.
        By that year Sir Isaac had also become one of Britain's largest charitable donors, having set up the Wolfson Foundation in 1955. Its chief goals were furthering activities for young people and health education in the Commonwealth. It went on to help set up new colleges within Oxford and Cambridge. He was the foundation's chairman and later its president and became a major benefactor of Israel.
        He was born on Sept. 17, 1897. The story goes that his impecunious father, Solomon Wolfson, who was more a man of religion than of business, once said when his son was 9 years old, "I know I am not much good at business, but I have a son who is a financial genius."
        Despite his talents, the son dropped out of Queen's Park School in Glasgow in his early teens. He helped his father make furniture and then, as a young man, went to work for a company that was renamed Great Universal Stores in the early 1930's. A Real Estate Solution
        He went on to acquire control of the company and to oversee it in years of vast growth. After becoming a joint managing director, he rose to chairman in 1946 and became honorary life president in 1987.
        At one point in his business career he ran into a minor domestic problem. He liked having the hall of his apartment jammed with scooters, tricycles and baby carriages. But the landlord had a rule against that.
        Mr. Wolfson's solution was simple. He bought the apartment house and changed the rule. And in his business life, decisive ventures of that kind were long his stock in trade.
        The Times of London reported yesterday that Great Universal Stores "is still the fifth most valuable retail undertaking in Britain," with a stock market value of $4.9 billion and profits of $654 million.
        As the years passed, the Wolfson Foundation's gifts were often as decisive as they were wide-ranging. It once contributed $280,000 to buy a Goya painting of the Duke of Wellington back from an American collector and keep it in England.
        Other examples of its generosity included a chair in criminology at Cambridge and one in metallurgy at Oxford, not to mention the Wolfson School of Nursing and the Wolfson Institute at London Postgraduate Medical School.
        Sir Isaac's philanthropic works in Israel included contributing most of the cost of a building for the Chief Rabbinate in Jerusalem. And in 1958 he bought the Haifa oil refinery from the Shell and British Petroleum companies. His chief motive, it was widely thought at the time, was not profit -- a doubtful prospect -- but maintenance of Israel's petroleum supply in the face of Arab boycotts.
        Sir Isaac was a founder fellow of Wolfson College at Oxford, an honorary fellow of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and a Fellow of the Royal Society. He held honorary degrees from Brandeis University and various universities in the United Kingdom and Israel.  Services in Israel
        He was married in 1926 to Edith Specterman. She died in 1981.
        Sir Isaac's survivors include five sisters, Edith Barnett Hyman and Dolly Raisler, both of New York; Bette Wolfson Schapiro of Palm Beach, Fla., and Rose Martin and Bebe Steinberg, both of London.
        He is also survived by a son, Leonard Gordon Wolfson, who was knighted in 1977, was made a life peer, as Baron Wolfson of Marylebone in the City of Westminster, in 1985, and is the heir to Sir Isaac's baronetcy.
        Baron Wolfson of Marylebone has been chairman of Great Universal Stores since 1981 and chairman of the Wolfson Foundation since 1972.
        In addition, Sir Isaac is survived by four granddaughters and several great-grandchildren.
        Services and burial are to be held on Tuesday in Rehovot.
      