
        Kevin O'Connor, a theater actor, director and teacher, died on Saturday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 56 years old and lived at the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer, his brother, Patrick, said.
        Mr. O'Connor made his first appearances as an actor Off Off Broadway at the Theater Genesis, and in 1965 joined the experimental Off Broadway troupe La Mama. He made three European tours with the company, and also performed at the Spoleto and Edinburgh Festivals and in London's West End.
        He appeared in plays by Leonard Melfi, Sam Shepard, Rochelle Owens and Lanford Wilson, among others, and won the Drama Desk Award for acting in the 1965 and 1973 seasons. His last performances at La Mama were in 1985, in "The Dark and Mr. Stone," by Paul Foster. Portrayed 'Madness Itself'
        In a review of Mr. O'Connor's performance in "Eyes of Chalk" in 1972, the New York Times critic Mel Gussow wrote that the actor "is able to portray not only a person going mad, but madness itself."
        "In the emotional and physical intensity of his impersonation," the review continued, "he is something of an American Nicol Williamson."
        Mr. O'Connor also taught acting for 15 years, and was a visiting associate professor of theater at Hunter College from 1987 until this year. He had taught earlier at St. Francis College in Brooklyn and at the New York University School of the Arts.
        In 1989, Mr. O'Connor appeared at the Actors Studio in a production of "Audience," a play by Vaclav Havel. In January 1990 the production was mounted in Prague for an audience that included Mr. Havel, who by then had been elected President of Czechoslovakia. Mr. O'Connor later wrote about the experience in an article in the Arts and Leisure section of The Times.
        Mr. O'Connor was born in Honolulu, attended the College of San Mateo and San Francisco State University, and received a degree from the Neighborhood Playhouse School of Theater in New York City in 1963.
        In addition to his brother Patrick, he is survived by his mother, Virginia Watson O'Connor Vilmaire, and another brother, Dennis, of Honolulu; two step-brothers, Warren Vilmaire of Dallas and Michael Vilmaire of Honolulu, and a stepsister, Delphine Vilmaire of Honolulu.
      