
        Michael Heidelberger, an award-winning pathologist known as the father of modern immunology, died on Tuesday at Tisch Hospital, New York University Medical Center. He was 103 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a stroke, a spokesman for the family said.
        Dr. Heidelberger, who never retired as a researcher, is credited with discovering that antibodies are proteins. He received, among other honors, two Lasker Clinical Medical Research Awards, the National Medal of Science and the Louis Pasteur Gold Medal of the Swedish Medical Society, given every 10 years.
        The Gold Medal, awarded to him in 1960, honored his contribution in developing methods for quantitative analysis of antibodies.
        He also received an award from the Belgian Government for his part in developing treatments for African sleeping sickness.  A Researcher for 70 Years
        Trained as an organic chemist, Dr. Heidelberger engaged in laboratory research for more than 70 years. He was often referred to as the father of modern immunology for his role in tranforming immunology, a largely descriptive science, into immunochemistry, a precise and quantitative field.
        In 1912 he joined the Rockefeller Institute after receiving his Ph.D. from Columbia University. And in 1928 he became the first professor of immunochemistry at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Faced with mandatory retirement at Columbia at 65, he joined the New York University faculty as a researcher and teacher in 1964 and was still connected with the school at his death.
        He was a visiting professor of immunochemistry at the Rutgers Institute of Microbiology for nine years. In 1964 he won the annual T. Duckett Jones Memorial Award of the Helen Hay Whitney Foundation for his work in quantitative immunochemistry.
        Over the years Dr. Heidelberger was mentor to many young scientists and a popular figure among students on the N.Y.U. campus. He took a crosstown bus to work each day until colleagues persuaded him a few years ago to take a taxi as a safer mode of travel for a man his age.
        A talented classical musician, he played the clarinet and violin with amateur groups in Manhattan. He was active in peace movements, and in 1970 led a student protest at N.Y.U. against the United States invasion of Cambodia.
        Asked at his 100th birthday celebration what it took to be a successful scientist, Dr. Heidelberger replied: "It's crucial to keep your eyes and mind open. You can't be a slave to any one idea."
        He was married twice. Both wives died, as did his only son. Dr. Heidelberger is survived by three grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      