
        Jacques Correze, who served in prison in France for pro-Nazi activities and later became chairman of the American marketing arm of L'Oreal, the French cosmetics giant, died here Wednesday of pancreatic cancer, a company spokesman said. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Correze died hours after announcing that he had resigned as chairman of Cosmair, the L'Oreal affiliate, because of his illness and renewed controversy about his collaboration with the Nazis during World War II.
        He had homes in Paris and New York. Last week, Justice Department officials said they had begun an investigation to determine whether the Frenchman should be barred from the United States. Jewish organizations have turned over documents to the department indicating that Mr. Correze took part in raids on the homes of Jews in Paris in 1941.
        Beginning in 1944, he spent five years in prison after he was convicted of storing arms, making explosives, incitement to civil war and attacks on the Government.  Expressed 'Regrets'
        Mr. Correze played a role in developing the activities of the L'Oreal affiliate, Cosmair, in the 1950's and 60's. He was named chairman of Cosmair's board in the late 1960's and remained in the post for two decades, serving as a liaison between the company's shareholders and managers. L'Oreal officials said his responsiblities as chairman were largely ceremonial and that he was not involved in day-to-day management.
        Mr. Correze issued a statement early Wednesday announcing that he had resigned from Cosmair on Tuesday. "I cannot change what has been," he said. "Allow me simply to express my most heartfelt and sincere regrets for the acts that I may have committed 40 years ago, and their consequences, even if indirect."
        His pro-Nazi activities recently came to light after a French executive living in Israel asserted that Mr. Correze had pushed a L'Oreal subsidiary to put pressure on him to resign from its board to avoid running afoul of an Arab boycott. Mr. Correze denied even knowing the executive, and L'Oreal officials have denied any wrongdoing.
        Mr. Correze pointed out recently that he has already served time in prison and that in 1959 the French Government granted him amnesty, a status officially accorded only to people who who did not knowingly expose or try to expose anyone to torture, deportation or death. The Government officially rehabilitated him in 1966.
        In an interview last week, L'Oreal's chairman, Lindsay Owen-Jones, said: "This is not a guy who tried to hide in Argentina or Brazil. He never changed his name. He has been punished. He has put that part of his life behind him, and has built a successful new life."
        Cosmair officials described Mr. Correze as "charming," "a perfect gentleman" and "very considerate."
        Jacques Correze was born on Feb. 11, 1912, in Auxerre, in Burgundy, the son of Maurice Correze and Blanche Lherbe. His father was a furniture maker. After studying interior design, art and accounting in Paris, he worked as a decorator from 1934 to 1938.
        In 1936 he became a member of an underground rightist organization, the Cagoule, according to histories of World War II and a personal account written by Mr. Correze. The group was responsible for anti-Semitic attacks, bombings and assassinations of anti-fascist leaders, some of which were carried out at Mussolini's request.
        For several years Mr. Correze was the right-hand man of Eugene Deloncle, a prominent collaborator who sought to topple the prewar French Government. After leaving prison in 1949, Mr. Correze married Mr. Deloncle's widow, Mercedes Deloncle, who died in 1988.
        He was arrested in 1938 for his anti-Government activities and was released in September 199, when war broke out in Europe. In 1940 he served in a French tank batallion and was decorated with the Croix de Guerre. After the Germans took him prisoner, he escaped and returned to Paris.  Rejoined His Mentor
        He allied himself again with Mr. Deloncle and in 1940-41 served as director of the Paris region for the Revolutionary Social Movement, which worked closely with the Gestapo in raiding the businesses and homes of Jews. In August 1941 he joined the Legion of French Volunteers, a collaborationist regiment that served in Hitler's army. A second lieutenant, he served on the Russian front in the winter of 1941-42, doing reconnaissance work for Mr. Deloncle.
        Mr. Correze returned to France in the spring of 1942, when, he has said, he stopped all political work. He said he had a change of heart and later joined the Resistance.
        He was arrested in December 1944, after France's liberation, and sentenced by two different tribunals to 10-year terms that ran concurrently. Some of his co-defendants received death sentences.
        He was freed in the fall of 1949. "I began a new life," he recounted later.  Hired by L'Oreal in 1950
        Mr. Correze was hired in 1950 by Francois Dalle, then L'Oreal's president. Mr. Dalle, a former member of the French Resistance, said he had known about Mr. Correze's past but hired him to "demonstrate tolerance at a time of reconciliation in France."
        Mr. Correze was sent several months later to Spain, where he helped build Procasa, L'Oreal's Spanish marketing branch. In 1954 he was sent to the United States, where he helped build up Cosmair by visiting beauty salons and stores and urging them to use and promote L'Oreal's products. He was also instrumental in setting up Cosmair's distribution network.
        The New York-based company had $1 billion in revenue last year and has three principal shareholders: Nestle, the Swiss food company, which owns 70 percent; Liliane Bettencourt, the founder's daughter, who holds 26 percent; and L'Oreal, with 4 percent.
        A family spokesman said Mr. Correze had no direct descendants, but that he was survived by a stepson, stepdaughter and three step-grandchildren.
      