
        The Rev. Lord MacLeod of Fuinary, who founded an ecumenical religious community on the Scottish island of Iona, died on Thursday at his home in Edinburgh. He was 96 years old.
        The cause of death was not announced, but his son, Maxwell, said he had been ill for some time.
        George F. MacLeod, a minister in the Presbyterian Church of Scotland, left his ministry in the Govan shipyard district of Glasgow in 1938, during the Depression.
        With a dozen unemployed craftsmen and members of the clergy, he set off for Iona -- a bare, wind-swept island, three miles long and a mile and a half wide -- where the Irish missionary St. Columba landed with 12 companions in A.D. 563. It became the base for St. Columba's ministry to Scotland and Iceland.
        The minister and his followers restored the ruins of the 13th-century Benedictine abbey, putting into practice his ideas for people of contrasting backgrounds to live and work together for at least part of every year.
        The island, off Mull on the Scottish west coast, has a population of only 103, but last year 200,000 visitors went to see the restored monastic buildings.
        The community has 204 members worldwide, half clergy and half laity, and 900 associates who make donations on St. Columba's Day, June 9.
        Members try to live by a fivefold rule: prayer and Bible study, sharing money, sharing use of time, meeting with fellow members and peace and justice commitments.
        In 1989 Lord MacLeod was given the Templeton Prize, the major award in the field of religion, for adapting "the monastic ideal and spirit to modern life and religious activity."
        He was a captain in the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders in World War I and was decorated for bravery with the Military Cross and the French Croix de Guerre. By the time of World War II, he had become a pacifist and Socialist and later was vice president of the Scottish Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.
        He led the Iona Community until 1967. He was the first holder of the Fosdick professorship of the Rockefeller Foundation at Union Theological Seminary in New York.
        His wife, Lorna, died in 1984. He is survived by their children, Mary, Maxwell and Neil.
      