
        Curtis Brewer, a lawyer who was a quadriplegic for much of his life and who founded Untapped Resources, a nonprofit legal-services agency for the handicapped, died yesterday at Tisch Hospital in the New York University Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Brewer was stricken with a viral infection of the spine in 1955, when he was 30 years old, and was left paralyzed from the neck down. He died of complications from stomach surgery necessitated by a progressive weakening of his lungs that stemmed from the initial paralysis, his family said.
        From his wheelchair Mr. Brewer fought for the rights of handicapped people. In 1964, he started Untapped Resources, for which he served as executive director and general counsel, to study the effects of social and economic conditions on the disabled.
        Discovering that many of the disabled were unaware of their rights or prevented by bureaucratic red tape and other barriers from receiving services and benefits to which they were entitled, he set out to help them through legal action.
        He graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1974 with a grade-point average of 3.5 and was admitted to the New York State bar without an examination, which would have been difficult for him to take because of his disability.
        He was an early campaigner for easier access for the handicapped. Unable to get his wheelchair into Carnegie Hall some years ago to attend a performance by his friend Itzhak Perlman, the violinist, who himself uses crutches, Mr. Brewer began a campaign to secure wheelchair access to public auditoriums. A lift was subsequently installed on the Seventh Avenue side of Carnegie Hall, and when it was remodeled in the mid-1980's, elevators were put in for the first time.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Bettie Foster, a New York University administrator; a son, Scott, of Washington, a law clerk to Justice Thurgood Marshall of the United States Supreme Court; two daughters from a previous marriage, Zakia Al-Ghuiyy, director of a geriatric treatment center in Atlanta, and Geraldine Hailstolk, a family therapist in Maryland; two brothers, Garland, of Medford, Mass., and Raymond, of Boston; a sister, Jean, of Roxbury, Mass., and four granddaughters.
      