
        Sir Angus Wilson, whose observations of the English middle class made him one of Britain's most distinguished writers, died on Friday at the nursing home in Bury St. Edmunds, southeast England, where he had spent the last several years.  He was 77 years old.
        He died after suffering a stroke, said Malcolm Bradbury, a friend and fellow author.
        He was one of four or five great English postwar writers," Mr. Bradbury said, ranking him with William Golding, Graham Greene, Doris Lessing and Iris Murdoch. "His novels are very witty and satirical, quite often malicious."
        Sir Angus wrote some 50 books, among them the novels "Hemlock and After," "No Laughing Matter," "The Naughty Nineties," "As If by Magic" and "Setting the World on Fire."
        He also turned to biography with "The World of Charles Dickens" and "The Strange Ride of Rudyard Kipling." 'Compassion and Grotesquerie'
        The Spectator magazine wrote of him in a 1985 appreciation, "His anecdotes are little short stories enacted by a master mimic, full of the strange mixture of comedy and compassion and grotesquerie which is also to be found in his books."
        "His characters' moral attitudes are scrutinized and invariably found wanting, but nevertheless their search for a morality goes on, indicative of Wilson's belief that 'life is very difficult for most people and most people make a fair job of it,' " the magazine said.
        Angus Wilson was born on Aug. 11, 1913, in Durban, South Africa, and educated at Westminster School in London and at Merton College at Oxford University.
        He worked in the Foreign Office during World War II, then turned to writing and an academic career.
        From 1949 to 1955 he was deputy superintendent of the Reading Room at the British Museum, in charge of replacing 300,000 volumes lost during wartime bombings.
        His first two books were collections of short stories, "The Wrong Set" in 1949 and "Such Darling Dodos" in 1950. These were quickly followed by various novels that won him popularity and praise, particularly in the postwar years.
        From 1966 to 1978 Sir Angus was a professor of English at the University of East Anglia. Mr. Bradbury, who succeeded him there as head of the English department, said that his colleague's death came on the eve of a revival of his work.
        His novels are about to be reprinted by Penguin Classics, and two of them, "Anglo-Saxon Attitudes" and "The Middle Age of Mrs. Eliot," are to be adapted for films, Mr. Bradbury said.
        Sir Angus was chairman of the National Book League from 1971 to 1974 and was president of the Royal Society of Literature from 1982 to 1988.
        He was made a fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1958, became a Commander of the British Empire in 1968 and received a knighthood in 1980.
      