
        Stan Getz, one of jazz's most influential musicians and explosively imaginative tenor saxophonists, died on Thursday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 64 years old.
        The cause of death was liver cancer, his secretary, Maggie Crim, said.
        Mr. Getz was an extraordinary improviser who not only created his own sound and vocabulary but also directly influenced several musical movements, including the cool school of jazz in the 1950's and the bossa nova in the 1960's. Along the way, he won 11 Grammys.
        With a light but immense sound, he captured both romanticism and a jazz toughness. Though he preferred ballads and medium-tempo compositions, Mr. Getz was also a master of uptempo tunes, his solos always displaying an innate logic. But just as important was his gift for improvising skeins of beautiful melodies. It made him one of America's best-known musicians, one who transcended the jazz audience to influence international popular culture.
        "I loved Stan Getz," said Dizzy Gillespie, with whom the saxophonist recorded several times in the 1950's. "His major contribution to jazz was melody. He's the best melody player in jazz. And an incredible soloist, but I loved his melodies. He's right up there with all of them, all the greats. You can't get any better than him."  Jazz Over Juilliard
        Mr. Getz was born in Philadelphia in 1927 and grew up in the Bronx. It was clear early on that he was a natural musician. He started playing bass in junior high school, moved to bassoon his first year in high school and a year later was chosen for the All-City High School Orchestra.
        Though his conductor offered to get him a scholarship to Juilliard, he turned it down for a career in jazz. By the time he was 15, Mr. Getz was working professionally with the trombonist Jack Teagarden's band. After moving to Los Angeles that same year, he replaced Art Pepper in Stan Kenton's orchestra, only to quit after Mr. Kenton offered the opinion that the music of Lester Young, the saxophonist, was too simple.
        That simplicity is exactly what Mr. Getz, who had become a disciple of Mr. Young, treasured, and for the rest of his career the hallmark of Mr. Getz's playing was its pared-down elegance.  Gary Burton, the vibraphonist who began playing with Mr. Getz in the early 60's, said: "One of the big things Stan taught me was how to play simply. He'd solo simply, and I'd be trying all kinds of complicated things, but the audience would be wiped out by what he'd do. I spent three years learning from him the depth that's possible from music."
        In the 1940's Mr. Getz joined Jimmy Dorsey's band, and Benny Goodman's band, with whom he recorded his first solo. In 1946, he made his first record under his own name, with Charlie Parker's rhythm section, which included Max Roach.  'He Had Phenomenal Ears'
        "He was a young kid that was hanging around 52d Street," Mr. Roach said, "and he had phenomenal ears, and his own way of dealing with the music."
        By then, Mr. Getz's sound was becoming his own. It was called the Long Island Sound, which was later shortened to simply the Sound by other musicians. Reedy but full, it changed into a strangled cry on command. It gave the impression of being fully relaxed, but with his hard, acute rhythmic sense Mr. Getz kept it from being sentimental.
        "He was one of the last of the masters who you could recognize by the first few notes -- it was that sound of his," said Kenny Barron, the pianist, who worked with Mr. Getz for the last six years of his life. "And playing ballads, there's no one like him."
        In 1947, Mr. Getz and the saxophonists Zoot Sims, Al Cohn and Serge Chaloff, all in Woody Herman's big band, became famous as the Four Brothers. A year later Mr. Getz recorded "Early Autumn," which made him well enough known to start recording and appearing under his own name with a now-legendary group that includedJimmy Raney, the guitarist.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Getz solidified his reputation as a dramatic improviser with a distinct group sound. He was a regular in clubs and on records and was a featured artist on the Jazz at the Philharmonic tours around the country.
        Jazz musicians at the time were minor celebrities by the virtue of their bohemian habits, and the handsome Mr. Getz fit the myth of the cool jazz soloist. But by the middle of the decade, addicted to both alcohol and heroin, the myth caught up with him when he was arrested for a robbery at a drugstore. He had started using heroin at age 16, and alcohol and drugs remained a persistant theme in his life until the early 1980's. Not that his addictions stopped his creativity: in 1957 a recording of a classic live performance was released as a "Jazz at the Opera House."
        To avoid legal problems, he left the United States in 1958 to live in Denmark. When he returned to the United States in 1961, he found he had been left behind artistically, as the innovations of Miles Davis and Ornette Coleman had shaken the jazz world. Mr. Getz embarked on mastering the new idioms with a musical discipline and curiosity he displayed his entire life.  Later that year, he recorded another masterwork, "Focus," an album of compositions by Eddie Sauter, featuring strings. He courted young musicians -- including Chick Corea, Gary Burton, Tony Williams and Teri Lynn Carrington -- who could challenge him with new harmonies and rhythms.
        In 1962, Mr. Getz and the guitarist Charlie Byrd recorded a set of Brazilian tunes that were released as an album called "Jazz Samba." It not only turned Mr. Getz into a pop star but also put jazz, in the form of the bossa nova, firmly on the pop charts. The album, which rose to the No. 1 position on the strength of the tune "Desafinado," sparked the bossa nova craze. Over the next two years, Mr. Getz produced a series of albums based on Brazilian themes that also did well. In 1964 "Getz/Gilberto," a record that he made with the Brazilian singer Astrud Gilberto and that produced the song "The Girl From Ipanema," was kept from being the No. 1 pop album by the Beatles.
        But Mr. Getz quickly turned his back on the music, moving on. He felt constrained by the limits of the form, and would disparage "Desafinado" in concert by calling it "Dis Here Finado."
        During the ensuing decades he kept up a regular performing schedule, interrupted by a move to Europe from 1969 to 1972. During the 1970's, he flirted with electronic music, but by the 1980's had returned to the classic sounds of an acoustic quartet for his best work.
        The 1980's marked a new phase of Mr. Getz's career. He turned out several extraordinary recordings, including "Anniversary," for which he won a Grammy, and cemented his position as a concert attraction. Mr. Getz no longer had to work in clubs but played the big halls exclusively.
        In 1981, he filed for divorce from his second wife, Monica, to whom he had been married for three decades, on the ground that she was poisoning him by adding Antabuse, a drug that causes an allergic reaction to alcohol, to his food. The case became legendarily acrimonious and expensive; one report had the costs at more than $1.5 million. They were finally divorced in 1987, but Mrs. Getz continued to fight, taking the case to the United States Supreme Court, which refused to hear it.
        Also in 1987, Mr. Getz was found to have cancer. He continued to perform and record, making several albums in the last few months of his life.
        He is survived by three sons, Stephen, David and Nicholas, and two daughters, Beverly McGovern and Pamela Raynor.
      