
        Dr. Irvine H. Page, a physician whose research helped shape the modern understanding and treatment of high blood pressure and heart attacks, died on Monday at his home in Hyannis Port, Mass. He was 90 years old.
        Dr. Page died of a heart attack, said a spokesman for the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, where he directed research for 21 years. He had been in failing health for many years after a stroke and his first heart attack in 1967.
        Through his research in Cleveland, along with earlier studies in New York and Indianapolis, Dr. Page played an important role in the discoveries of crucial compounds in the body that affect blood pressure. Identification of the compounds helped to begin to unravel the complex nature of hypertension and to supplant a widely held concept that high blood pressure could be traced to a single causative agent.
        Dr. Page was one of the first to recognize that high blood pressure was a disease and amenable to treatment. While working in Indianapolis in 1937, he developed therapies to reverse malignant hypertension, the most severe form of high blood pressure. Early Diagnosis of Attacks
        He entered medicine at a time when doctors were just beginning to diagnose heart attacks in patients. Until then, the symptoms of nausea and vomiting that can accompany the chest pain of a heart attack were often attributed to acute indigestion, gall bladder attacks and many other conditions.
        Also, at the time, it was the rare physician who believed that high blood pressure was important. Most doctors believed that high blood pressure was part of aging and the reason that blood pressure rose was to help the heart pump blood through arteries that were thickened by atherosclerosis. Though doctors lacked effective anti-hypertensive drugs, they believed it was unwise to try to lower high blood pressure because if they did they would deprive the body of enough blood.
        Now high blood pressure is recognized as a silent killer, known to cause complications like strokes, kidney disease, blindness and, to a lesser extent, heart attacks.
        An estimated 61 million Americans have high blood pressure, and public education campaigns about the need for early treatment, which Dr. Page encouraged, have helped to reduce the death rate from its complications. For example, from 1979 to 1989, the death rate from stroke dropped by 31.5 percent, from 41.6 per 100,000 to 29.7 per 100,000.
        Irvine Heinly Page was born in Indianapolis on Jan. 7, 1901. As a teen-ager, he played the banjo and once said he was "sorely tempted" to become a professional musician. But lured by biochemistry as an undergraduate at Cornell University, he decided to follow his father, Lafayette, into medicine. Training and Research
        After receiving his medical degree from Cornell, Dr. Page trained at Bellevue Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital in New York City. In 1928 he went to Munich, Germany, to set up a department at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute to study the chemistry of the brain. He wrote a text on the subject after he returned to New York to join the Rockefeller Institute, now known as Rockefeller University.
        From 1937 to 1945 he worked at the Indianapolis City Hospital on heart and circulatory disorders. He then moved to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, where he worked for 21 years. Dr. Page is credited with helping to make Cleveland a leading center of research on high blood pressure and heart disease.
        In his research, he sought to identify and isolate compounds that affected blood pressure. He received awards for contributing to the discovery of such compounds, called angiotensin and serotonin, and for research that showed how the body's nervous and endocrine systems could influence high blood pressure.
        Dr. Page developed the now accepted thesis that hypertension is dependent upon a complex mosaic of individual and interacting mechanisms involving the biochemical and nervous systems and other factors like structural defects in arteries and organs.
        Dr. Page also stressed the importance of prevention in heart disease, saying, "It is vastly more important to prevent atherosclerosis than to repair the damage after it has been done."
        Dr. Page is survived by his wife, Beatrice Allen, and two sons, Christopher Page of Hyannis Port, and Nicholas Page of Charlottesville, Va. A memorial service will be held 11 A.M. Friday at the Union Chapel in Hyannis, Mass.
      