
        Silvan Samuel Tomkins, a psycholgist who specialized in the study of human emotions, died on Monday at Shore Memorial Hospital in Somers Point, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Strathmere, N.J.
        Dr. Tomkins, who suffered from lymphoma, died of kidney failure, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        He made his major contribution in showing how emotions like anger or excitement play a more important role in human motivation than biological drives like hunger and sex. He was the first to put forth a detailed theory of the psychological role of each major emotion.  Developed Personality Test
        Dr. Tomkins developed the Tomkins-Horn Picture Arrangement Test, designed to reveal unconscious aspects of the personality. With his former wife, Elizabeth J. Tomkins, he wrote what has since become a standard manual for the Thematic Apperception Test, a personality evaluation test.
        He is perhaps best known as the creator of Affect Theory, which explains human motivation in terms of emotions, and Script Theory, which deals with how emotions shape personalities and culture.
        Dr. Tomkins worked as a research assistant at the Harvard Psychological Clinic from 1936 to 1943. He held teaching and research appointments at Harvard and Princeton Universities, the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, Livingston College of Rutgers University and the University of Pennsylvania. Author of Psychological Series
        He is the author of a four-volume series "Affect, Imagery, Consciousness" (Springer Publishing Company, 1962, 1963 and 1991), which presents his theory of emotion. A final book in the series, on the nature of mind and thinking, is scheduled to appear in early 1992.
        He received many honors, among them the Bruno Klopfer Distinguished Contribution Award of the Society for Personality Assessment in 1975 and the Distinguished Contribution Award of the clinical psychology division of the American Psychological Association in 1971. In the late 1960's Dr. Tomkins received the Career Investigator Award from the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Tomkins, a native of Philadelphia, was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he also received an M.A. in psychology and a Ph.D. in philosophy.
        He is survived by a son, Mark, of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      