
        Former Mayor Frank L. Rizzo collapsed and died of a heart attack today just months after staging a comeback with an upset victory in the Republican mayoral primary. His death leaves the Republicans without a candidate at a time when the rules for replacing candidates are under litigation in Federal court here.
        Mr. Rizzo, 70 years old, was stricken at lunchtime during a routine day. An aide found him collapsed on the floor of a bathroom at his downtown campaign headquarters, and after efforts to revive him failed, he was taken to Jefferson University Hospital. He was pronounced dead at 2:12 P.M.
        The former Mayor was one of the most dominant political forces in this city for a quarter century, and his death creates a vacuum in leadership for about the third of the city's electorate -- mostly older, white, ethnic working-class voters. He ran as a Democrat in his first three mayoral campaigns and as a Republican in this one and in 1987. 2 Mayoral Victories
        Mr. Rizzo, who rose to prominence as the city's Police Commissioner during the racially turbulent 1960's, was first elected Mayor in 1971 and then again, by a landslide, in 1975. Throughout his tenure as Commissioner and Mayor, there were persistent charges of racism and police brutality.
        Dr. Joseph A. Zeccardi, director of emergency medicine at Jefferson, said the heart attack was the most common type, ventricular fibrillation. Mr. Rizzo, who had no prior history of cardiac problems, was a diabetic and took daily injections of insulin, but there apparently was no direct connection to his heart attack.
        Much is in doubt in Pennsylvania politics right now, with vacancies left by the death of Senator John Heinz in an airplane crash, and the resignation of William H. Gray 3d from the House of Representatives.
        A recent Federal court decision here invalidated Pennsylvania's election law for filling vacancies in the Senate, which permitted the political parties and not the electorate, to select candidates to run in special elections; that decision, which is under appeal, and other litigation have cast a shadow on how any vacancies are to be filled.
      