
        Roger Revelle, an early predictor of global warming and a leader in several fields of science, died Monday at the Medical Center of the University of California at San Diego. He was 82 years old.
        The medical center, which he co-founded, said he had died of complications after cardiac arrest.
        Dr. Revelle distinguished himself as both a researcher and an administrator. From 1951 to 1964 he headed the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at La Jolla, now part of the University of California at San Diego, and in that time Scripps, working with two sister institutions on the East Coast, laid the foundations for a revolutionary theory of the earth, now known as plate tectonics.  An Early Warning of Warming
        In the 1950's he became concerned about the increase of atmospheric carbon dioxide from global use of fossil fuels. Air was being sampled atop a Hawaiian volcano and the specimens were shipped to Scripps for analysis. Dr. Revell's warning was one of the first that a global warming might ensue.
        In the early 1960's President John F. Kennedy appointed him head of a panel studying the problems of water use in the Indus River basin of Pakistan, particularly the accumulation of salt in the soil.
        In 1964, having become concerned with the problems of developing countries, Dr. Revelle (pronounced ruh-VEL) founded and became director of the Center for Population Studies at Harvard University.
        Roger Randall Dougan Revelle, 6 feet 4 inches tall, was a man of impressive physical dimensions, hearty voice and great warmth. In 1959 Time magazine said he looked "as if he were specially designed, both physically and temperamentally, to study the Pacific Ocean."
        Under his leadership the light-hearted atmosphere at Scripps was typified by photographs on the walls of the institution's most prominent members. The pictures included one of Sir Edward Bullard sitting on a rock, clothed only in a sun hat, and Dr. Revelle entwined in cable like a modern Laocoon.  Digging Into Ocean Floor
        Among his diverse scientific contributions was his innovative work, with Sir Edward and Arthur E. Maxwell, on the upward flow of heat through the ocean floors. Such heat flow on land is generated by radioactivity in the rock, but samples from the ocean floor showed little radioactivity, so negligible heat flow was expected.
        Dr. Revelle and his colleagues built a device that plunged into ocean-floor sediment and made the critical measurements. These showed far more heat than expected and helped demonstrate that hot material was flowing under the oceans, a discovery that was the prelude to the theory of plate tectonics. There is still no agreement on the source of the flow.
        According to the theory, large plates of the earth's surface, including continents and ocean floors, are spreading away from ridges in mid-ocean and going down under arcs of volcanic islands like the Aleutians or under volcanic coastlines like those of western South America.
        In 1952 Dr. Revelle became a member of the off-beat American Miscellaneous Society, composed of scientists trying to think of exciting research on which Government money could be expended. The result was the Mohole Project, which proposed to drill through the ocean floor into the underlying mantle.
        The project died for fiscal and political reasons before a drill platform could be built, but it led to the more conventional Deep Sea Drilling Project, which, with its successor, the Ocean Drilling Program, has probed the floors of all the world's oceans. Some scientists regard it as the most productive scientific enterprise ever conducted at sea. Honored by the President
        Dr. Revelle helped organize the International Geophysical Year of 1957-58, which inaugurated the space age and was the most ambitious program of global research up to that time.
        In 1959 he was president of the first International Oceanographic Congress, held at the United Nations, and helped initiate the International Indian Ocean Expedition of 1959-1965.
        Last year President Bush presented him the National Medal of Science.
        Dr. Revelle was born in Seattle on March 7, 1909, and was raised in Pasadena, Calif. After taking a bachelor's degree in geology from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., in 1929, he did graduate work at the University of California at Berkeley and at Scripps, where he received a doctorate in 1936.
        In 1931 he married the former Ellen Virginia Clark, grandniece of Ellen Browning Scripps and Edward Willis Scripps, who in the early 1900's had been benefactors of the Scripps institution. In World War II, as a commander, he headed the oceanographic section of the Navy's Bureau of Ships, then helped to found the Office of Naval Research. In 1946 he became head of its geophysics branch, then returned to Scripps in 1948 as associate director.
        He was science adviser to Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall in 1961-63.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, William Roger Revelle of Evanston, Ill.; three daughters, Anne Elizabeth Shumway of Cambridge, Mass.; Mary Ellen Paci of Brookline, Mass., and Carolyn Hufbauer of Chevy Chase, Md.; 12 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
      