
        Robert Motherwell, a major presence on the American art scene for nearly 50 years and one of the last giants of the Abstract Expressionist movement, died on Tuesday afternoon on Cape Cod. He was 76 years old and had had a heart ailment for some years.
        The cause of death was believed to be a stroke, his curator, Joan Banach, said. She said that he died in an ambulance en route to Cape Cod Hospital.
        Mr. Motherwell's work ranged from a series of brooding abstract paintings known as "Elegies to the Spanish Republic" -- whose obsessive theme roughly took the form of oval shapes confined by vertical bars -- to elegantly playful collages contrived from scraps of music, stamps, tobacco labels and other ephemera.
        Though always abstract and painterly, Mr. Motherwell's work expressed his literary and philosophical concerns and his deep involvement with the culture of Mediterranean Europe. A large man who moved and talked slowly, the artist never lost his Abstract Expressionist view of painting as a struggle, "a state of anxiety" as he once put it, "that is obliquely recorded in the inner tensions of the finished canvas."
        He regarded his art as a never-ending process. "All my life I've been working on the work -- every canvas a sentence or paragraph of it," he once said. "Each picture is only an approxi- mation of what you want. That's the beauty of being an artist; you can never make the absolute statement, but the desire to do so as an approximation keeps you going."
        An intellectual who philosophized about, wrote about and talked about art in addition to producing it, Mr. Motherwell became the theorist and leading spokesman of what he called the New York School: the post-World War II movement that put New York at the center of the international art world. Later, as a kind of elder statesman of American art, he promulgated the movement eloquently through lectures, teaching and editing, without interrupting his highly productive output as an artist. His stature as a painter, collagist and printmaker made his work a must in major collections throughout the world.
        "Although he is underrated today, in my opinion he was the very best of the Abstract Exressionist painters," the critic Clement Greenberg, who was a prominent part of the early scene, said yesterday. A Munich Gallery In His Name
        In his later years, Mr. Motherwell was showered with medals, degrees and awards, among them the National Medal of Arts, given him by President Bush at the White House in 1989. In 1982, a permanent Motherwell Gallery was installed at the Bavarian State Museum of Modern Art in Munich, the only gallery for a living artist among those devoted to such modern masters as Matisse, Picasso and Max Beckmann.
        Mr. Motherwell was still working and exhibiting at the time of his death. "From the Studio," a group of his latest paintings, appeared at his dealer, Knoedler & Company, last month, and a touring retrospective of his work will open on Sept. 5 at the Rufino Tamayo Museum in Mexico City. Over the last 25 years, he executed special commissions for such prestigious sites as the East Wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the John F. Kennedy Federal Building in Boston and the Stanford University Law School in California. In 1965 he was given a retrospective show by the Museum of Modern Art that traveled to major European cities, and since 1975 he had shows in Stockholm, Vienna, Paris, Edinburgh, London, Barcelona, Mexico City and Madrid.
        A 40-year retrospective organized in 1983 by the Albright-Knox Gallery of Art in Buffalo traveled to five other institutions across the United States, ending at the Guggenheim Museum in New York during the 1984-85 season. On that occasion, John Russell, then chief art critic of The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Motherwell:
        "Among champions of high culture, he has kept to a policy of 'no compromise.' Not for him the contaminations of popular culture or the wish to get clear once and for all of criteria first formulated in Europe. In his writing, his teaching and his conversation, he has kept open a direct line to the European past, no matter whether the great spirits under discussion are Velazquez or Piero della Francesca, Mozart or Mallarme, Goya or Baudelaire. And if he seems to see himself not only as the admirer of these people, but also their peer, it is for the work to justify that idea, rather than for the artist to repress it." A Teacher And an Editor
        Mr. Motherwell's teaching stints included Black Mountain College in North Carolina, Oberlin College and Brown University. From 1951 to 1958, he was associate professor of art at Hunter College.
        As an editor, he originated "Documents of 20th Century Art," a continuing series published by Viking Press from 1968 to 1980 and then by G. K. Hall in Boston, that presents the original writings of artists, among them Picasso, Lipchitz, Arp, Duchamp, Leger, Apollinaire, Henry Moore, Ad Reinhardt and Piet Mondrian.
        The best-known theme in Mr. Motherwell's paintings is "Elegy to the Spanish Republic," a compositional scheme of ovoids alternating with vertical bars, most often in black and white. The motif, first developed in 1948, has recurred in more than 100 canvases over the years, to the point where the artist himself was ruefully aware that some critics regarded it as a formula. "When he gets stuck, what should he do but make another 'Elegy'?" he quoted one as saying.
        He explained that the "Elegy" paintings, originally a tribute to the republic that died in the Spanish Civil War, were not meant to be political, but rather "general metaphors of the contrast between life and death and their interrelation." And in an interview with the art historian Jack D. Flam published in the catalogue for the Albright-Knox show, he characterized them as "for the most part, public statements."
        "They reflect the internationalist in me," he said, "interested in the historical forces of the 20th century, with strong feelings about the conflicting forces in it." Sexual Overtones And Draftsmanship
        While not dismissing the sexual overtones some critics saw in the work -- for instance, that the ovoids and bars represented the testicles and penis of the bull so prevalent in Spanish life and folklore -- he also associated much else with the theme. As a draftsman he liked the opportunity it provided of "working straight lines against curves." For another, the blacks massed against white symbolized the black of Latin civilization, "the black cypress trees in the cemeteries, the black funeral carriages, the many women dressed in black, how in Spanish light the shadows are black with sharp edges." And, proud of his half-Scottish, half-Irish ancestry, he also saw it as relating to his forebears, who produced "those Celtic stone megaliths, like Stonehenge, all over northern Europe and into Spain."
        His most recent work in the "Elegy" series was "Elegy to the Spanish Republic No. 172 (With Blood)," done in 1989-1990, which appeared in the Knoedler show.
        Mr. Motherwell's other major painting series was known as the "Opens," whose characteristic imagery is that of a drawn rectangle or rectangles, suggesting windows and doorways cut into a field of subtly nuanced color. He happened on the theme in the late 1960's, when he leaned a small painting, its back facing forward, against a larger canvas whose surface had already been painted. He was so struck by the "proportion" set up by one rectangle superimposed on another that he immediately outlined the shape of the smaller canvas on the larger one with charcoal. A Derivation Of Adobe Houses
        Describing the "Opens" as "a painted plane beautifully divided by minimal means, the essence of line drawing," Mr. Motherwell said they derived in part from the unadorned, whitewashed adobe facades of Mexican houses with "beautifully proportioned" doors and windows. But the "Opens" also tended to be more involved with "strictly artistic problems" than the "Elegies," problems, as he told Mr. Flam at the time of the Albright-Knox show, "in the viscosity of paint, of color fields, of the skin of the world highly abstracted."
        He was also highly prolific as a printmaker, which he enjoyed as a collaborative process, producing, over the last decade, more than 430 etchings, lithographs and portfolios. His most recent print venture was a series of etchings for an American edition of James Joyce's "Ulysses," published by Orion Press in San Francisco.
        And he was a master of the collage medium, which he considered a more intimate side of his art than painting. In his collages, he took a personal, lyrical approach, combining fragments of colored paper, musical scores, labels, letters and stamps in richly evocative compositions that he regarded as a "kind of private diary, not made as autobiography, but one in which all kinds of personal memories are incorporated." He used the collage form to create the current poster for the 25th anniversary of "Mostly Mozart," the annual Lincoln Center festival. A Fellowship At Age 12
        Born on Jan. 24, 1915, in Aberdeen, Wash., the son of a banker, Robert Burns Motherwell 3d showed his artistic talent early by winning a fellowship to the Otis Art Institute in Los Angeles at the age of 12. Later, as a philosophy student at Stanford University, he made his first real connection with modern art when a tennis partner invited him to see the paintings by Henri Matisse in the Palo Alto home of Michael Stein, a brother of Gertrude Stein.
        He felt "a shock of recognition," as he later put it. "I knew that was the kind of thing I wanted to do."
        His interest in Matisse led him to steep himself in modern French culture, with particular emphasis on poetry from Baudelaire to Valery. Doing graduate study in esthetics at Harvard to prepare for teaching -- a pact he had made with his father, who felt he should have a "career insurance policy" -- he wrote a thesis on the painter Eugene Delacroix. He went to France in 1938 and stayed for more than a year. In Paris, living in a Left Bank pension, he painted, frequented cafes and had his first one-man show.
        Back home in 1939, while teaching a painting course at the University of Oregon, he learned of the influential classes being conducted at Columbia University by the art historian Meyer Schapiro. He went to New York, enrolled at Columbia and became involved in what was to be the high drama of Abstract Expressionism.
        Through Mr. Schapiro and others, he met the group of Surrealist artists in exile in New York during World War II, among them Kurt Seligmann, Marcel Duchamp, Andre Masson, Max Ernst, Yves Tanguy and Roberto Matta and the poet Andre Breton. Uninterested in the figurative subject matter or the political implications of Surrealism, whose aim was to effect revolution, he nevertheless took to its theory of "psychic automatism," which accorded with his feeling for Freudian psychoanalysis and the work of the French Symbolist poets. Free Association With a Brush
        The method of psychic automatism, or "artful scribbling," as Mr. Motherwell came to call it, involved a kind of free association in which the pen or brush was allowed to wander on a surface, undirected by the conscious mind. "You let the brush take over and in a way follow its own head, and in the brush doing what it's doing, it will stumble on what one couldn't by oneself," was Mr. Motherwell's description of the process. "It's essential to fracture influences in the same way that free association in psychoanalysis helps to fracture one's social self-deceptions."
        He used the technique in all of his work. It related to the way Abstract Expressionist imagery was developed, allowing such factors as "accidents," surface incidents, the texture of materials and the color of the paint to play a role in the process. In Mr. Motherwell's work, the physical act of painting can always be read.
        In the early 1940's, through his friendship with Matta, the Chilean painter, Mr. Motherwell got to know William Baziotes, one of the burgeoning group of young painters who were to become the New York School, and through him, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and Hans Hofmann. He joined Pollock, Baziotes and Matta in early experiments with automatism and argued, as he later told it, against their negative views of European culture.
        Along with Pollock and Mark Rothko, he was one of the promising young artists encouraged by Peggy Guggenheim. He showed collages with others at her Art of This Century Gallery in 1943 and in 1944 had his first American solo show at the gallery. In that year, the Museum of Modern Art bought his painting "Pancho Villa Dead and Alive," in which could be seen the beginnings of the oval-and-rectangle oppositions of "Elegies."
        In 1948, with Rothko, Baziotes and the sculptor David Hare, Mr. Motherwell founded an informal loft school on Eighth Street called "The Subjects of the Artist." A series of Friday evening lectures by vanguard artists, organized by Mr. Motherwell and Barnett Newman, it was open to the public and attracted large turnouts. Eighth Street Club Was Influential
        The school closed because of finan-cial failure, but the evening meetings, continued in the later Abstract Expressionist organization known as the Eighth Street Club, were very influential in promulgating avant-garde views. In 1950, Mr. Motherwell was appointed to the graduate faculty at Hunter College, where he taught until 1958. By that time, the achievements of the Abstract Expressionists were a part of art history.
        In 1969, when he separated from his third wife, the painter Helen Frankenthaler, Mr. Motherwell moved to Greenwich, Conn., establishing himself on a four-acre compound made from the "working quarters" of an old estate. There, at a comfortable distance from the distractions of the New York art world he had helped to create, he lived with his fourth wife, the photographer Renate Pensold, and carried on what he called his "cottage industries" -- painting, printmaking and collage -- in studios especially set up for each purpose. Working in relative seclusion, Mr. Motherwell regarded his crew of young assistants as a "family, one of my best weapons against age and loneliness."
        He spent summers in Provincetown, Mass., where he maintained a house and studio for nearly 50 years, and was considered more or less a local institution. There he enjoyed playing poker with friends in a game of long standing, and he was very much involved, with a dozen artist cronies of middle age or older, in a cooperative exhibition space, the Long Point Gallery. He showed work in conjunction with the others, and took his turn in the program of solo exhibitions that was held there each summer.
        Never one to underplay his honors and attainments, Mr. Motherwell nevertheless looked back with nostalgia at the early days before he and fellow members of the New York School achieved recognition. He compared what he called "the show biz aspect of the contemporary scene" with the "innocence" of the past.
        "We were formed by the Depression, when the American dream lay in pieces on the floor," he once said. "The possibility of making money was inconceivable to us. America was innocent in relation to modern art, and no one cared. The reigning painters in America were very parochial in relation to the international tradition.
        "What held us together was our ambition to use the standards of international modernism as a gauge, not those of Thomas Hart Benton or Grant Wood or Guy Pene du Bois. We did have a terrible struggle, but not for success. It was to make painting that would stand up under international scrutiny, and all the rest was a byproduct."
        The notion espoused by many young artists and critics that his work had too much elegance and refinement was countered by Mr. Motherwell with the assertion that he was an "intuitive and primitive" painter whose work was "almost as direct as a child's."  A 'Barbarian' Who Read French
        "Compared with Brancusi, Matisse, Miro, I'm a barbarian," he said. "If people would understand the barbaric force of my paintings, instead of always pointing out how well I understand Picasso. I'm a Viking who has read French literature."
        Yet he acknowledged that "each generation has to react against the one before it."
        "There is a general reaction against Abstract Expressionism, and that's all right," he said. "The next generation will react against this one, and so forth. But my values can't change to please a public. Whether my work is liked or not by the young, it's an authentic expression of an individual, the real McCoy, of whatever kind it is."
        Over the last five years, Mr. Motherwell created the Dedalus Foundation, which will gradually give most of his works to museums around the world. His studios in Greenwich will become a small private museum.
        Besides his wife, Renate, Mr. Motherwell's survivors include two daughters by Betty Little, his second wife: Jeannie Swanson of Old Greenwich, Conn., and Lise Steinberg of Cambridge, Mass.; a grandchild, Rebecca Swanson, and a sister, Mary-Stuart Bosschart of Hillsborough, Calif.
        Correction:  July 20, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about the painter Robert Motherwell quoted a critic's description of him incompletely. The critic, Clement Greenberg, called Motherwell "one of the very best of the Abstract Expressionist painters," not "the very best."
      