
        Wendell Cherry, vice chairman of Humana Inc., operator of a nationwide chain of hospitals and provider of health insurance for 1.6 million people, died on Tuesday at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 55 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for Humana.
        Mr. Cherry, who founded Humana in 1961 with David A. Jones, had many interests outside the health-care field. He owned the Kentucky Colonels basketball team and was president of the American Basketball Association before its absorption into the National Basketball Association. He was also an art collector who once paid $5.3 million for a self-portrait of Picasso and a Broadway producer whose shows included "The Secret Garden," a Broadway musical this season.
        Born in Kentucky's rural Hart County, he was a graduate of the University of Kentucky and its law school. In 1959 he began practicing law in Louisville and taught economics at the University of Louisville. Chain of 82 Hospitals
        Two years later, he and Mr. Jones founded Humana, which operates 82 hospitals and is one of the world's largest providers of integrated health-care services, with annual revenues of $6 billion.
        Over the years Mr. Cherry was identified with many activities in Louisville. He was the lawyer for a group of Louisville sportsmen who sponsored the boxer Cassius Clay, a Louisville native. The boxer went on to win the world heavyweight championship in 1964 and later became Muhammad Ali.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Cherry headed a campaign to finance a number of Louisville projects, including rebuilding of the Louisville General Hospital into the Humana Hospital-University of Louisville, one of four Humana medical centers in that city.
        He was a pivotal figure in raising $13.5 million to build the Kentucky Center for the Arts, which was completed in 1983, and served as its board chairman from 1980 to 1987.
        Mr. Cherry's interest in art resulted in what some critics have called the greatest collection of 20th century sculpture being placed in Humana's headquarters and the neighboring Kentucky Center for the Arts. Included are Henry Moore's "Reclining Figure," Alberto Giacometti's "Large Standing Woman II" and Alexander Calder's "The Red Feather."
        At a Manhattan auction in 1981, Mr. Cherry outbid other collectors and paid $5.3 million for the Picasso self-portrait "Yo," at the time the highest price ever paid for a work by the artist.
        Mr. Cherry is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy O'Connell; two daughters and two sons from a previous marriage, Angela Gehegan of San Diego, Alison Alvarez of Charlotte, N.C., Andrew of Louisville and Hagan, of San Diego; his mother, Geneva, of Bowling Green, Ky.; a stepdaughter, Jennifer Morton of Yarmouth, Me.; two stepsons, Jonathan and Timothy Morton, both of Louisville; two sisters, Ruth Ann Holland of Montclair, N.J., and Sue Ellen Lloyd of Bowling Green; a brother, Layman of Alvaton, Ky., and three grandchildren.
      