
        Harold R. Perry, one of the first black American Roman Catholic bishops, died on Wednesday. He was 74 years old.
        Bishop Perry, the auxiliary bishop of New Orleans since 1965, died of complications of Alzheimer's disease at a health care center, the church said.
        "As the first African-American bishop in this century, he was a symbol of the great changes which have taken place in our church and in our country," Archbishop Francis B. Schulte said.
        In 1964, Bishop Perry became the first black clergyman to deliver the opening prayer in Congress.
        A native of Lake Charles, La., he was the eldest son of a French-speaking rice mill worker and a domestic cook. At the age of 13 he entered the Divine Word Seminary at Bay St. Louis, Miss., and trained at installations of the Divine Word Missionary Order in Illinois and Wisconsin. In 1944 he was ordained at Bay St. Louis, the 26th black American Roman Catholic to attain priesthood.
        He was as an associate pastor at parishes in Louisiana, Arkansas and Mississippi for eight years before being sent to Broussard, La., as founding pastor of St. Joseph's parish for 1,000 black Catholics.
        In 1958 he was named rector at Divine Word Seminary in Bay St. Louis. In 1963 he and other religious leaders were invited to the White House to discuss peaceful desegregation with President John F. Kennedy. In 1965, he was named auxiliary bishop.
        Bishop Perry served as pastor of Our Lady of Lourdes and St. Theresa of the Child Jesus parishes in New Orleans and as rector of the National Shrine of Our Lady of Prompt Sucor.
        He observed the Silver Jubilee of his consecration as a bishop earlier this year in St. Louis Cathedral here.
        A wake service will be held Sunday in the cathedral. A burial Mass, conducted by Archbishop Schulte, is scheduled for Monday.
        Bishop Perry is survived by two brothers, Dr. Frank A. Perry of Nashville, and Dr. James Perry of Oakland, Calif., and two sisters, Thelma Perry White of Washington and Verlie Perry Kennedy of Oakland.
      