
        William Roger Connole, a Washington lawyer who was an early consumer advocate when he served on the Federal Power Commission from 1955 to 1960, died on Tuesday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        He died of prostate cancer, said his daughter Mary de Groot.
        Mr. Connole (pronounced ke-NOLE), a political independent, was general counsel to the Connecticut Public Utilities Commission when President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him to the Federal Power Commission. Over his five-year term, he earned a reputation as a champion of consumer interests and strict industry regulation. In two natural gas-rate cases, his dissents against majority rulings were upheld by the Supreme Court.
        The heads of seven state regulatory commissions and several mayors urged President Eisenhower to reappoint Mr. Connole in 1960, but the President declined on the ground that the commissioner had become "identified with one particular point of view."  Founded Law Firms
        Mr. Connole remained in Washington, first as an assistant attorney general for Michigan and then as a legal consultant on energy utilization and a counsel for foreign governments, including Yugoslavia and Algeria, in charting legislation and regulations on utilities. He was a founding partner of the law firms of Connole & O'Connell and then of Connole, O'Connell and Glock.
        Mr. Connole was a native of Naugatuck, Conn., and a graduate of Georgetown University and its law school. In World War II, he was a meteorologist with the Army Air Force Weather Service in the Caribbean and South America.
        After the war, he was an administrative law judge for the Interstate Commerce Commission and a reader and reviewer of books on weather watching and forecasting for various publications, including The New York Times.
        His first wife, Jane, died in 1964. Surviving are his second wife, Alyce; two sons, William R. Jr. of Loveland, Colo., and John of Santa Rosa, Calif.; three daughters, Carey Connole of Honolulu, Mary de Groot of Washington and Tracey Caldwell of San Diego; a brother, John of Pittsfield, Vt., and eight grandchildren.
      