
        Earl Robinson, who wrote the music for "Joe Hill" and other songs about the American labor movement, died on Saturday night in Seattle. He was 81 years old and had returned to Seattle, the city of his birth, four years ago.
        He was killed when his car was struck by a four-wheel-drive vehicle, the King County medical examiner's office said. The Seattle police department said it was investigating the accident.
        Mr. Robinson composed the music for "Ballad for Americans," which Paul Robeson introduced in a nationwide broadcast more than 50 years ago. His other songs included "The House I Live In," recorded by Frank Sinatra; "Hurry Sundown," sung by Peter, Paul and Mary; "Black and White," which became a hit for Three Dog Night in 1972, and "The Lonesome Train," a cantata about the death of Abraham Lincoln. A Song Denounced
        The lyrics of "The House I Live In," by Lewis Allan, list treasured American institutions and appeal for racial and religious harmony. But the song was denounced by some as leftist when Mr. Sinatra sang it in a 1945 film short of the same title.
        A few years ago Mr. Robinson said that he and Mr. Allan had written the song "for people of all stripes and colors, all or no political beliefs."
        "All races and religions: that's America to me," he said.
        Blacklisted during the McCarthy era for his political views, Mr. Robinson said in a 1989 interview: "I stayed in the Communist Party too long. I quietly dropped out in the blacklist days. The party still has something to say, but I'm not sure it has anything worth listening to. The latest thing for me is spiritual."
        "Joe Hill," his best-known song, was composed to a poem by Alfred Hayes about an organizer for the International Workers of the World who was executed in Utah in 1915 on a murder charge. The song became a rallying cry in the post-Depression labor movement and was revived by Joan Baez at the 1969 Woodstock Festival. 'Alive as You and Me'
        The lyrics include the lines, "I dreamed I saw Joe Hill last night,/ Alive as you and me./Said I, 'But, Joe, you're 10 years dead.'/ 'I never died,' said he./ 'I never died,' said he."
        Mr. Robinson was a classically trained composer who studied music at the University of Washington, from which he graduated in the early 1930's, and with Aaron Copland in New York. His many works ranged from a piano concerto to music for radio, television, theater and films. He sang and played the guitar and keyboard instruments.
        He taught music at the University of California at Santa Barbara before returning to Seattle. In recent years, he became devoted to environmental causes.
      