
        Allan C. Wilson, a biochemist whose provocative genetic approach to the study of evolution led to a theory that all humans descended from a single woman who lived in Africa 200,000 years ago, died on Sunday in Seattle. He was 56 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        He died while undergoing treatment for leukemia at the Fred Hutchinson Memorial Cancer Center in Seattle, said the University of California at Berkeley, where Dr. Wilson was a professor of biochemistry and molecular biology.
        In research that shook up paleoanthropology, a field defined primarily by the study of fossil bones, Dr. Wilson and his colleagues identified a "molecular clock" for measuring human evolution. They determined that proteins and genes could change over time at a steady rate and thus act as a molecular clock.
        Applying this technique, Dr. Wilson and Dr. Vincent M. Sarich, also of Berkeley, proposed in the late 1960's the now-accepted theory that apes and humans evolved from lineages that split off from one another five million years ago. The African Eve Hypothesis
        A more recent application, which gave rise in 1987 to what was popularly known as the African Eve hypothesis, remains controversial. Dr. Wilson and his colleagues based their research on the analysis of genetic material, mitochondrial DNA, that is passed only from women to their offspring. The mitochondrion is an energy-producing organ inside every cell and contains its own complement of genes separate from the genes in the cell nucleus.
        After examining mitochondrial DNA from people of various races, the scientists hypothesized that all humans living today have mitochondria traceable to a common ancestor, a woman who was described as "the mother of us all." The theory also held that her descendants, the first modern humans, spread out of Africa 50,000 to 100,000 years ago to replace archaic humans throughout Europe and Asia.
        Many paleontologists dispute this part of the theory, contending that fossil evidence indicates that modern humans evolved from ancient ones in many different parts of the world at different times. 'Had a Very Wide Impact'
        "The idea of the molecular clock has really changed the game in the past 25 years," said Dr. Sarich.
        Dr. Thomas Jukes, a professor of biology at Berkeley, said Dr. Wilson "had a very wide impact on the field because of his new and innovative ideas."
        Dr. Wilson, who was born in Ngaruawahia, New Zealand, received a Ph.D. in biology from Berkeley in 1961 and joined its faculty in 1964. He won a MacArthur Foundation fellowship in 1986 and was elected a member of the Royal Society of London and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Leona; a daughter, Ruth, of East Lansing, Mich., and a son, David, of San Francisco.
      