
        Dr. Alan H. Barrett, an authority in radio astronomy and a professor emeritus of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died yesterday in Denver, where he was staying with his son and daughter. He was 64 years old and lived in Center Harbor, N.H., and Key Colony Beach, Fla.
        He died of intestinal cancer, his family said.
        In 1963 Dr. Barrett, together with associates at M. I. T, reached a milestone in radio astronomy by detecting and measuring the presence of hydroxyl in interstellar space, using an 84-foot-diameter instrument at the university's Lincoln Laboratory on Millstone Hill. It was the first time a molecule had been found in the Milky Way and the discovery opened the way for development of a new field of research, the study of molecules in the far regions of the universe.
        Dr. Barrett was also a designer of microwave detection equipment carried into space in 1962 aboard the Mariner I and II missions to the planet Venus that found surface temperatures there far too high to support life as it is known on Earth.
        Dr. Barrett was born in Springfield, Mass., and was a graduate of Purdue University. He held master's and doctoral degrees in physics from Columbia University. He was a fellow at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington and a research associate and instructor in astronomy at the University of Michigan before he joined the M. I. T faculty in 1961. Studies of Earth's Atmosphere
        Using high-altitude balloons, Dr. Barrett used the techniques of radio astronomy to study characteristics of the Earth's atmosphere. That work prepared way for the Nimbus series of meteorological satellites.
        In 1987 Dr. Barrett was awarded a von Humboldt Fellowship and retired from the M. I. T faculty. He served as an adviser and consultant to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of Health, the National Radio Astronomy Obsertatory and the National Astronomy and Ionosphere Center.
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, from which he received the Rumford Prize in 1971. In 1977 and 1978 he received a Guggenheim Fellowship to study the molecular properties of interstellar space.
        Dr. Barrett is survived by his wife, the former Virginia McCulloch; a son, Richard, and a daughter, Bonnie, both of Colorado, and a brother, Raymond, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      