
        George H. Love, an industrialist who headed two major corporations in divergent fields, the Consolidation Coal Company and the Chrysler Corporation, died on Thursday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 90 years old.
        He died of complications from emphysema, his family said.
        For many years in the 1950's and 1960's Mr. Love divided his time beween the two business giants, traveling between Pittsburgh and Detroit. He was credited with turning Chrysler around when he was chairman, from 1961 to 1966. He retired in 1972.
        When he was a student at Princeton in the early 1920's Mr. Love worked in the summers in a coal mine. He went to the Harvard Business School and spent a short time in the investment field before an uncle asked him to take over the management of three small family-owned coal mines in Pennsylvania.
        In 1926 he became assistant to the president of Pittsburgh Union collieries; seven years later he assumed the presidency. In 1943 he was named vice president of Consolidation Coal and soon merged it with Pittsburgh Coal and the M. A. Hanna Company to form the country's largest coal company. Focused on Industry Sales
        He made major changes in coal mining, replacing mules and picks with mechanical equipment. Instead of concentrating sales efforts on private homes and small businesses, he focused on selling to large industrial consumers.
        In 1949 and 1950, Mr. Love served as chief negotiator for the coal industry in contract talks with John L. Lewis and his United Mine Workers union. Mr. Love ultimately helped work out agreements that led to 13 years of labor peace in the industry.
        By 1958 Mr. Love, a multimillionaire, embarked on a second career when he became a director of Chrysler, which had seen its share of the automobile market shrink from the 25 percent it held immediately after World War II. In 1961 Mr. Love selected Lynn A. Townsend as president of the auto maker, and Chrysler's fortunes were quickly reversed.
        On behalf of Consolidated, Mr. Love invested heavily in Chrysler and the coal company soon owned nearly 8 percent of the auto company's stock. He was retained as Chrysler's chairman for a year after he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65 and eventually retired in 1970.
        Mr. Love was born in Johnstown, Pa., and was a graduate of Phillips Exeter Academy before going to Princeton.
        Mr. Love's first wife, the former Margaret McClintic, died in 1981 after 52 years of marriage. He is survived by his second wife, the former Lorraine McClintic, who had been married to the brother of his first wife; a son, Pete, of Pittsburgh; two daughters, Margaret Stevens of Manhattan and Sara Downey of Winnetka, Ill., 13 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchldren.
      