
        Lazar Moyseyevich Kaganovich, one of Stalin's closest aides and the last surviving Bolshevik leader who joined the Communist Party before the Revolution, died here on Thursday. He was 97 years old.
        Once a towering figure in Kremlin politics, Kaganovich sometimes was regarded as the No. 2 man in the Soviet Union because of his ties to Stalin.
        He had a number of tough assignments, from serving as the Politburo troubleshooter in the Ukraine in the 1920's to being Moscow boss at a time when the city was torn up and its ultra-ornate subway system built. He was also involved in some of Communism's most ruthless experiences, the collectivization of agriculture and the vast party purges in the 1930's.
        As a member of Stalin's State Defense Committee, which ran the Government during World War II, he oversaw transportation and the organization of war industries. A Ruthless Bureaucrat
        With paradoxical timing, he died a passive, blind pensioner on Thursday, just as President Mikhail S. Gorbachev offered his latest initiative to lead the party from the totalitarian structure that Kaganovich had helped shape.
        The once-ruthless bureaucrat, who could become tearful at a martial band's patriotic tune, died at 10 P.M., seated in an armchair, without uttering a word, said Valentina Polakhova, his housekeeper. He had acquired the well-appointed apartment on the riverfront across from Gorky Park decades ago, as a favored leader. In his last years he kept to himself, though neighbors talked of seeing him walking a dog or sitting on a park bench.
        With Stalin having turned against and liquidated so many of his associates, Kaganovich stands out in Bolshevik history for surviving at the dictator's side longer than anyone. His survival was the more remarkable because he was the only Jew to hold high office in Stalin's final years in power. Many Jews were being arrested or purged from office, and Stalin was considering a campaign to exterminate Jews when he died in 1953. How He Survived
        One explanation may be that Kaganovich's sister, Rosa, was believed to be intimately involved with Stalin. Some biographers have said she became his third wife, though Stalin's daughter from his second marriage has denied the reports about the woman.
        But Kaganovich's support for Stalin dated back to the early Lenin years, when he secretly sought to cement their relations within a welter of party jealousies and rivalries.
        In the decades of Stalin's bloody rule, Kaganovich offered the despot the fealty of a total factotum. At the height of his fortunes he adminstered the burgeoning nation's transportation systems and heavy industries in behalf of Stalin. He was the master builder who gutted Moscow's 19th-century neighborhoods in favor of the soulless gray concrete towers of Communism.
        He also saw to some of the details that so often left Stalin in petulant, vindictive moods. Kaganovich became infamous to Muscovites for carrying out Stalin's order to raze the beautiful Cathedral of Christ the Savior. Originally built as a people's memorial to patriotism after the War of 1812, the building was torn down and replaced with a gigantic outdoor swimming pool. 'Mixed Feelings' for Some
        "I have mixed feelings for the poor man," a clerk said this morning in the lobby library of Kaganovich's exclusive, tree-shaded apartment house. "I grew up in Stalin's years and rather liked the order we had then, the enthusiasm we had in those times."
        A younger woman interrupted cuttingly: "I couldn't care less. I am from the Ukraine, and I know the 'order' Kaganovich enforced there -- it was genocide."
        With a beard like Lenin's in his early years, and a stark mustache like Stalin's in his later years, Kaganovich was an adapter. He was a pioneer organizer for the Bolsheviks in 1911, sweeping to the elitist fore and casting his lot with Stalin when they seized power. He brought Khrushchev to Moscow from the Ukraine in the 1930s, and for years treated him as a protege. But after Stalin's death, Khrushchev in the end turned against him.
        Kaganovich faded from power and public view after he was purged as an alleged member of the "anti-party group" that unsuccessfully sought to topple Khrushchev from power in 1957, four years after Stalin's death. 'Your Hands Are Stained'
        "Your hands are stained with the blood of our party leaders and of innumerable innocent Bolsheviks!" Khrushchev was reported to have shouted at Kaganovich and Vyacheslav M. Molotov, the two leading Stalinists, as they were expelled from the party hierarchy in June 1957 at a central committee meeting.
        "So are yours!" Kaganovich was reported to have shouted back, evincing an unrepentance that has long since made him the darling of some Stalinists.
        Others argued that Kaganovich, not Stalin, was the creator of the evils under which tens of millions of Soviet citizens perished. That theme was pursued in particular by anti-Semites among the Stalinists, who denounced him as "the Jew in the Politburo."
        Born into a Jewish family in Kabany, near Kiev, Kaganovich developed a talent as a strike organizer in a shoe factory and soon put it to work in anti-czarist revolutionary activities, joining the Bolshevik faction of the Russian Social Democratic Workers Party. Dispenser of Patronage
        With Stalin as his liege, Kaganovich eventually moved to the party's inner sanctum, holding seats on the Central Committee and Politburo. He built hydroeletric projects at the dictator's behest and ran the Ukraine for him as first party secretary.
        Stalin considered him his most artful dispenser of patronage and made him chief of the Department of Organizations and Assignments, where Kaganovich funneled thousands of jobs to party careerists and closed out the hopes of others.
        In his years of forced retirement, Kaganovich could be seen playing dominoes with fellow pensioners in his apartment courtyard. He rebuffed interviewers seeking details on the bloodiest Stalin episodes, usually restricting his comments to reassertions of his party ardor.
        "I was a Communist and I'll always remain a Communist," he declared last year in a local newspaper interview, before he went blind. "I could not eat breakfast without having first looked at Pravda." A Generous Pension
        He recently suffered a heart attack and a broken hip, said Polina Nikoleyeva, an elevator operator in his apartment building. "He was quiet, kept to himself, living on a pension of 300 rubles," she said, citing a generous monthly figure equal to about the average active worker's salary.
        As a pensioner, he described listening to party plenum accounts on the radio the way some old men follow sports. "The problem now is that Communists are too weak, too passive in the active struggle with one-sided glasnost that is now so hostile to the party," Kaganovich said in one of his last complaints.
        "There can be no loneliness for a Communist, for a Marxist," said the pioneer Bolshevik, who missed the party's latest plenum this week amid its bewildered retreat from power.
      