
        Dr. Ernest Matsner Gruenberg, a psychiatrist and epidemiologist who pioneered in community mental health, died on Tuesday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 75 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        He died of multiple organ failure, his daughter said.
        Dr. Gruenberg retired in 1981 as chairman of the department of mental hygiene at the School of Mental Hygiene and Public Health at Johns Hopkins University and as a professor of psychiatry at its school of medicine. He had held the positions since 1975.  Director of Health Panel
        Before that he had been a professor of psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University and director of the psychiatric and epidemiology research unit of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene. He had also been an assistant in the department of psychiatry and in the department of public health at Yale University.
        Dr. Gruenberg, a 1941 graduate of the medical school at Johns Hopkins, also earned advanced degrees in mental health at Yale University in 1949 and 1955. In addition to his private psychiatric practice, he had served as executive director of the New York State Mental Health Commission, as a member of the technical staff of the Milbank Memorial Fund in Manhattan and as a psychiatrist at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan and at the Hudson River Psychiatric Center.
        As head of the State Mental Health Commission, he worked for the enactment of laws promoting the development of mental health programs and the creation of local community mental health facilities.
        In World War II, he served as a captain with the 101st Airborne Division. He was captured by the Germans two days after the invasion of Normandy and was liberated from a German prisoner-of-war camp in Poland by Russian troops.
        He was a member of many professional societies and wrote more than 100 articles for scientific publications.
        He is survived by two sons, Nicholas, of Newark, and Matthew, of Brookline, Mass; a daughter, Ann, of Mansfield, Conn., and a sister, Hilda Krech Stanislawski of Berkeley, Calif.
      