
        Curtis B. Dall, a retired stockbroker and a former son-in-law of President Franklin D. Roosevelt who later became chairman of the Liberty Lobby, died Friday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Arlington. He was 95 years old and lived in Alexandria.
        He died of natural causes, his family said.
        Mr. Dall was born in Manhattan and graduated from Princeton University in 1920 after serving as a Navy aviator in World War I.
        In 1926 he married Anna Eleanor Roosevelt, and two years later her father was elected Governor of New York. The couple divorced in 1934, but Mr. Dall remained socially and politically prominent and was often referred to in news articles as "President Roosevelt's former son-in-law."
        But he was no admirer of President Roosevelt's policies. In the late 1960's, he wrote a book, "F.D.R.: My Exploited Father-in-Law," giving in detail his low opinion of the New Deal, the Yalta agreement among the Allies and participation by the United States in United Nations programs after World War II, in which Mr. Dall served as an Air Force colonel.
        In the late 1930's he helped to organize what later became the Tennessee Gas and Transmission Company of Houston, one of the largest corporations in the country. But he sold his interest before the company's real growth began.
        He became active in politics in the 1940's and in 1948 campaigned for Strom Thurmond, who was the Presidential nominee of the conservative States' Rights Party. He was a leader in the Liberty Lobby, which was dedicated to the eradication of communism and which supported right-wing causes in the United States and abroad. He retired as chairman in 1982.
        Mr. Dall is survived by his second wife, the former Katharine Miller Leas, whom he married in 1938; a son and a daughter from his first marriage, Eleanor Seagraves of Washington and Curtis Roosevelt Dall of Majorca, Spain; two daughters and two sons from his second marriage, Katharine Bolton of Beaufort, S.C., Mary Dunham of Newport, R.I., Stephen of Devon, Pa., and James of Portland, Ore.; 10 grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      