
        Robert B. Fiske, a retired vice president of the American Cyanamid Company and a one-time assistant secretary general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, died on Thursday in Essex, Conn. He was 90 years old and had lived for many years in Lyme, Conn.
        He died of respiratory failure while being taken from the Essex Meadows retirement home to a hospital, his family said.
        Mr. Fiske joined the legal department of Cyanamid, a manufacturer of chemical, pharmaceutical and other products, in 1934 and spent the rest of his business career with the company. In 1959 he was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to be assistant secretary general of NATO for production and logistics, serving under Secretary General Paul-Henri Spaak. He returned to Cyanamid after a year and retired in 1962.
        He was born in Auburndale, Mass., and was a graduate of Yale and Yale Law School, where he was editor in chief of the law journal. His education was interrupted for two years when his family did not have enough money to keep him in school; he went to sea, serving as an seaman and as a quartermaster on merchant ships and working ashore for the American Hawaiian Steamship Company.
        After he graduated from law school, Mr. Fiske spent eight years with the Manhattan law firm of Root, Clark, Buckner, Howland & Ballantine, serving for a time in Santiago, Chile, and Paris. In 1931 and 1932 he was given a leave of absence to join the legal staff of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in Washington.
        At Cyanamid he rose to become assistant secretary, assistant to the president and vice president before taking leave for his NATO post. He was a director of several companies, a governor of the International Planned Parenthood Federation and a director of the Foreign Policy Association. For 15 years he was a member of the Planning and Zoning Commission in Lyme.
        Mr. Fiske's first wife, the former Lenore Seymour, died in 1984. He is survived by his second wife, the former Dorothy Fearon Rees; three sons, Robert Jr., of Darien, Conn., a former United States Attorney in Manhattan, McNeil, of Littleton, Colo., and John, of Weston, Mass.; a sister, Helen Atkins of Delmar, N.Y.; nine grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      