
        Howard Nemerov, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and former poet laureate of the United States, died late Friday at his house in University City, a suburb of St. Louis. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Nemerov died of cancer of the esophagus, said M. Fredric Volkmann, vice chancellor for Public Affairs of Washington University in St. Louis. Mr. Nemerov had taught at the university from 1969 to 1990.
        Mr. Nemerov was a relatively conservative, formalist poet, to whom rhyme and meter were important. Other poets said the strengths of his poems included clarity, wisdom, irony and an ability to handle the contemporary world in formal verse.
        The subjects of his poems varied widely. Another poet, Julia Randall, wrote in 1975 that his poetry was "on the one hand, often about bugs, birds, trees, and running water." On the other hand, she wrote, his poems were about American things like "the Indian-head nickel, and the packaged meat in the supermarket."
        "And they are about Lot's wife and Vermeer," she went on. "They are about history and nature, and about everyman, who participates in and speaks for both." 'That Will Be All'
        Mr. Nemerov could write poetry that was literally universal, like these lines written in 1975 under the title "Cosmic Comics":
        There is in space a small black hole
        Through which, say our astronomers, The whole damn thing, the universe, Must one day fall. That will be all.
        Or he could write about as modest a subject as "An Old Photograph," in these lines from 1947:
        No one escapes the perjury of time:
        This permanence that light and shade have struck  So brave in attitude, I would believe  Essential, and innocent of change,  I hold your head here, on a paper platter,  The eyes unswerving in a dead constancy.
        Mr. Nemerov was also a novelist, essayist and critic. His 1977 book, "The Collected Poems of Howard Nemerov" (University of Chicago Press), won him the Pulitzer Prize and also the National Book Award.
        Reviewing that work in The New York Times Book Review, Helen Vendler of Boston University said, "A hopeless hope is the most attractive quality in his poems, which slowly turn obverse to reverse, seeing the permanence of change, the vices of virtue, and the errors of truth."  As Poet Laureate
        Mr. Nemerov was poet laureate from 1988 to 1990. He was named to that prestigious and salaried, but largely honorary, post by the Librarian of Congress, James H. Billington, who said Mr. Nemerov had "given America a remarkable range of poetry from profound to the poignant to the comic." His duties included advising the library about poets and literature.
        Mr. Nemerov was the third holder of the job, which was created by Congress in 1985. He followed Robert Penn Warren and Richard Wilbur, and his successors have been Mark Strand and Joseph Brodsky, who was named last May.
        Mr. Nemerov took a broad view of poetry writing. He once defined it as a spiritual exercise "having for its chief object the discovery or invention of one's character."
        But he could make light of his poems. Asked about their style in a 1988 interview, he recalled that he had once smoked no-nonsense cigars whose bands were inscribed, "All Quality, No Style." He added, "That should take care of your question."
        Praising Mr. Nemerov's versatility as a writer, the critic and biographer Irving Howe wrote in 1964 that he was a man of letters "in the best, the old-fashioned sense of the term."  'Relentless Love of Poetry'
        And another poet, Doug Anderson, wrote last April in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Nemerov's fiction had allowed him "a much wider emotional and imaginative range than his poems."
        Mr. Anderson, who was reviewing a collection of his poetry and prose, "A Howard Nemerov Reader," (University of Missouri Press, 1991) said Mr. Nemerov's essays revealed him "as brilliantly incisive, if occasionally curmudgeonly," and as having an "undeniable, relentless love of poetry."
        Mr. Nemerov retired in 1990 as Edward Mallinckrodt Distinguished University Professor at Washington University and subsequently used the title of Mallinckrodt Professor Emeritus, but he continued to do some teaching on that campus through the end of that year, and he retained the post of Distinguished Poet in Residence there until his death.
        Over the years, he also taught at Bennington College, Brandeis University and elsewhere, having begun in 1946 as an intructor in English at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.  Sister a Photographer
        Howard Nemerov was born in New York City on March 1, 1920, to David and Gertrude Russek Nemerov. His father became chairman of Russeks Fifth Avenue, a clothing retailer. One of his younger sisters was the photographer Diane Arbus, who committed suicide in 1971.
        He attended Fieldston School in the Bronx and earned a degree from Harvard College in 1941. During World War II he became a pilot, serving successively with the British and the American forces.
        Among Mr. Nemerov's more than two dozen books are such volumes of poetry as "War Stories" (1987), "Gnomes and Occasions" (1974) "The Western Approaches" (1977), "Sentences" (1983) and "Inside the Onion" (1984), all published by the University of Chicago Press, and "Image and Law" (Holt, 1947).
        His novels include "The Melodramatists" (Random House, 1949) "Federigo, or the Power of Love" (Little, 1954) and "The Homecoming Game" (Simon & Schuster, 1957). Among his books of essays are "Figures of Thought" (Godine, 1978) and "Journal of the Fictive Life" (University of Chicago Press, 1981).
        The many awards he won included the National Medal of Arts, given him by President Ronald Reagan in 1987, the Bollingen Prize and the Theodore Roethke Memorial Prize. He was also a Guggenheim fellow.
        In addition, Mr. Nemerov was prominent in the Academy of American Poets, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
        He held honorary degrees from 13 colleges and universities. The last one he received was a doctorate from Washington University, in May.
        He married Margaret Russell in 1944.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his mother, Gertrude Nemerov, and a sister, Renee Sparkia, both of Albuquerque, N.M., and three sons, David of St. Louis, Alexander of Washington and Jeremy of Seattle.
        Funeral services are to be for the family only. A memorial service for the public in St. Louis is to be announced later. POEMS FROM A LAUREATE
        The Snow Globe  A long time ago, when I was a child,  They left my light on while I went to sleep,  As though they would have wanted me beguiled  By brightness if at all; dark was too deep.  And they left me one toy, a village white  With the fresh snow and silently in glass  Frozen forever. But if you shook it,  The snow would rise up in the rounded space  And from the limits of the universe  Snow itself down again.  O world of white,  First home of dreams! Now that I have my dead,  I want so cold an emblem to rehearse  How many of them have gone from the world's light,  As I have gone, too, from my snowy bed.  Strange Metamorphosis of Poets  From epigram to epic is the course  For riders of the American winged horse.  They change both size and sex over the years,  The voice grows deeper and the beard appears;  Running for greatness they sweat away their salt,  They start out Emily and wind up Walt.  (Source: "The Collected Poems of Howard Nemerov," published by the University of Chicago Press in 1977.)
      