
        James Franciscus, who starred in the television series "Naked City," "Mr. Novak" and "Longstreet," died on Monday night at the Medical Center of North Hollywood. He was 57 years old.
        He died of emphysema, his press agent, Phil Paladino, said.
        Mr. Franciscus was born in Clayton, Mo., and attended prep schools in Massachusetts and Connecticut before going to Yale University. After a stint with summer stock theater in Massachusetts, he was cast in a 1956 film, "Four Boys and a Gun."
        But it was television that brought him fame. He began his television career in 1958 with ABC's "Naked City," but left after one season because the show was shot in New York and he wanted to live in California. Also a Producer
        His first major success came in 1963 in the NBC series "Mr. Novak," in which he played an English teacher who helped his high school students with their problems. The show drew criticism from those who felt the teacher, John Novak, was too good to be true. Jack Gould, writing in The New York Times, wrote that while the character had its weaknesses, "getting any kind of sensible teacher on the air was indeed a formidable achievement."
        Mr. Franciscus defended the show in an interview in which he noted that "the image of the harassed, bumbling teacher is a cliche."
        Mr. Franciscus twice portrayed insurance investigators, first on "The Investigators," which was short-lived, and later as a blind operative on the ABC series "Longstreet."
        Mr. Franciscus was also a television producer, presenting small-screen versions of classics like "Jane Eyre" and "The Red Pony."
        A handsome six-footer, Mr. Franciscus twice portrayed Kennedyesque Presidents, first in "The Greek Tycoon," a 1978 film starring Jacqueline Bisset and Anthony Quinn, and then in the 1981 television movie "Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy," opposite Jaclyn Smith in the title role.
        Mr. Franciscus also appeared in the television series "Doc Elliott" and "Hunter." He was a regular guest actor on "The F.B.I.," "Combat," "Father Knows Best" and "The Twilight Zone."
        His other film credits include "The Outsiders," "Youngblood Hawke" and "Beneath the Planet of the Apes."
        His first marriage, to Kitty Wellman, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Carla, and four daughters, Jamie, Kellie, Corie and Jolie.
      