
        Leonard R. Harris, retired director of corporate relations and public affairs for The New York Times Company and a former executive in book and encyclopedia publishing, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart arrhythmia, his family said.
        Mr. Harris joined the Times Company in 1973 as director of special projects and later became director of corporate development. In 1979 he was given responsibility for internal and external communications when he was named to the corporate relations post, a new one for the company. He was a consultant for the Times Company in the mid-1960's.
        Mr. Harris, who was a native New Yorker and a graduate of McGill University, spent his entire career in publishing. He began as a freelance writer and was an editor at several magazines before entering book publishing as director of publicity and subsidiary rights for Prentice-Hall Inc. He later specialized in paperback publishing and book-club management for Prentice-Hall. Edited Books on Language
        In 1965 he joined Encyclopedia Britannica Inc. as vice president for editorial and corporate development. In 1969 he became executive vice president and publisher of the World Publishing Company, a post he held until he joined the Times Company.
        Mr. Harris was editor of several books on English usage written by Theodore M. Bernstein, a former assistant managing editor of The New York Times, beginning with "Watch Your Language," published in 1958 by Channel Press.
        After he retired in 1988, Mr. Harris remained active in consulting work and was vice chairman of the board of the Partnership for the Homeless. He was also a board member of the New York City Center Theater and a member of the Mayor's Midtown Citizens Committee, whose chairman, Gerald Schoenfeld, described him yesterday as "one of the most forceful, yet quiet, voices in dealing with the reclamation of Times Square."
        Mr. Harris is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Fox; a daughter, Elizabeth Brown of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, William, of Hartsdale, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
        A memorial service will be held at 11:30 A.M. on Friday at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
      