
        William Marvel, a judge in the Delaware Court of Chancery who ruled in several important racial cases in his 28 years on the bench, died on June 28 at his home in Wilmington, Del. He was 81 years old.
        He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Cary Mabley.
        Judge Marvel, a former chairman of the New Castle County Democratic Party, was named to the bench by Gov. J. Caleb Boggs in 1954 and was reappointed in 1966. In 1976, Gov. Sherman W, Tribbitt named him chancellor of the court, a position in Delaware second only to Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court.
        In an integration case in 1955, Judge Marvel ordered the reinstatement of 10 black students who had been removed from the segregated Milford High School. A year earlier he ruled in favor of black plaintiffs who charged racial discriminaton by the Wilmington Parking Authority.
        In 1982, the year he retired, the judge received the Josiah Marvel Cup Award, a state public service award, that is named for his father, a Wilmington lawyer and civic leader.
        Mr. Marvel was born in Wilmington and graduated from Yale University in 1932. He studied at Cambridge University in England on a Mellon fellowship, receiving a master's degree. After earning a law degree from the University of Virginia, he joined his father's firm, Marvel, Morford, Vard & Logan.
        In 1948, after serving as an assistant United States Attorney, he was named interim United States Attorney by President Harry S. Truman.
        Mr. Marvel was an intelligence officer in the Army Air Corps during World War II.
        His first wife, Peggy Potter of Manhattan, died in 1964.
        In addition to his daughter Cary of Kittery Point, Me., he is survived by his wife, the former Laura Blair; another daughter from his first marriage, Wilhemina Austin of Montchanin, Del.; five stepsons, Edwin Boggs of Phoenix, Ariz., George Boggs of Arlington, Va., Peter Boggs of London, England, Francis Boggs of North Queensland, Australia, and Robert Boggs of Gaithersburg, Md.; a sister, Mary Donohue of Greenville, Del., and 11 grandchildren.
      