
        Bishop Francis J. Mugavero, who in his 22 years as the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn combined staunch liberalism and a fierce loyalty to the Vatican, died yesterday at the age of 77.
        The Bishop, who retired in February 1990, died of a heart attack while vacationing in East Hampton, L.I., said Frank DeRosa, the spokesman for the Brooklyn Diocese.
        Bishop Mugavero (pronounced Ma-GUV-a-ro) was the first native of Brooklyn to lead the diocese, which covers 1.6 million Catholics in Brooklyn and Queens. The diocese is independent of the Archdiocese of New York, which encompasses the three other boroughs, Westchester and six other counties north of the city.
        Tall and bald -- he often joked with youngsters that he was Kojak -- the Bishop gained a reputation as a liberal because of his emphasis on social concerns over issues of doctrine. He was a prime mover behind the Nehemiah Housing Project, which builds private homes for the poor in Brooklyn, and was a founder of the Campaign for Human Development, a national church collection that has raised millions of dollars for the poor. Drew Ire of Conservatives
        The "marriage tribunal" that he established to grant annulments to divorced Catholics was among the most active in the nation and drew the ire of some conservatives. Bishop Mugavero always maintained that it operated within the strict interpretation of church law.
        Unlike some of the 300 other Roman Catholic bishops in the nation, however, Bishop Mugavero had a background not in canon law but in charity work. He headed Brooklyn's office of Catholic Charities before being appointed a bishop in 1968. Eugene Kennedy of Loyola University, an author of several books on the Catholic heirarchy, said that Bishop Mugavero's background in charities shaped his career as a bishop.
        "His understanding of the human condition was different than that of his brother bishops trained in canon law," Mr. Kennedy said. He did not see everything in terms of legalities, Mr. Kennedy added, "which made him a very pastoral bishop."
        Still, Bishop Mugavero never confronted the Vatican, as some other liberal prelates did. Obeyed Vatican on Gay Group
        For example, the Bishop allowed Dignity, an organization of Catholic homosexuals, to use church buildings until 1987, when he was informed by the Vatican that his action appeared to encourage the group. He immediately barred Dignity from his churches.
        His ruling disappointed liberals who thought that his first loyalty was to their principles. After the Dignity ban, the faculty of Brooklyn College voted to reverse a decision of the school to give Bishop Mugavero an honorary degree. In reaction, former Mayor Edward I. Koch made a point that year to give the Bishop the city's highest honor, the La Guardia Medal.
        In line with Vatican policy, Bishop Mugavero issued more than 20 pastoral letters strongly condemning abortion. Bishop Mugavero, however, tended to avoid public criticism of Catholic politicians who supported a right to abortion, meeting with the officeholders privately instead.
        By contrast, other bishops, including his successor, Bishop Thomas V. Daily, and John Cardinal O'Connor, have openly clashed with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and other prominent Catholic officeholders on their refusal to translate a personal opposition to abortion intopublic policy.  Opposed a Married Priesthood
        Bishop Mugavero also endorsed the Vatican position against a married priesthood. But he never criticized those priests who left their parishes to marry. Several said that they continued to maintain a friendly relationship with the Bishop years later.
        As Bishop, he also became a national spokesman for the rights of undocumented aliens and established the first office in any diocese to provide social assistance to new immigrants. He often called Brooklyn "the diocese of immigrants," and was proud that Mass was said there in 14 languages.
        Cardinal O'Connor, the head of the Archdiocese of New York, said in a statement yesterday: "Bishop Mugavero's death has cast a pall on New York City, the city of his birth, his life, his love."
        Bishop Daily called him "a gentle presence who was sensitive to the needs of everyone whom he touched."
        Governor Cuomo, a resident of Queens who called Bishop Mugavero "my bishop," called the loss "a deep and personal one for myself and my family."
        "He challenged us -- not with judgment but with love -- to live up to the best within us," the Governor said.
        Spokesmen for Jewish organizations yesterday praised Bishop Mugavero as a pioneer in Catholic-Jewish relations.
        Francis John Mugavero was born in Brooklyn on June 8, 1914 and grew up over his father's barber shop in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section. "My parents were not particularly religious," he once recalled. "Both hoped I would change my mind about the priesthood. Their thinking was: 'Full-blooded, normal Italian boys find a girl, get married and raise a family.' " First Italian Bishop of Brooklyn
        He was ordained in 1940 after studying at Cathedral College in Brooklyn and Immaculate Conception Seminary in Huntington, L.I. He received a master's degree in social work from Fordham.
        He was appointed as the fifth bishop of Brooklyn on July 15, 1968. He was the first Italian-American in that post.
        Bishop Mugavero, an avid crossword-puzzle fan, loved opera and eating in little-known Italian restaurants with friends. He enjoyed greeting people as he walked along the promenade in Brooklyn Heights, but would always correct well-wishers who called him "your excellency."
        "I'm not excellent," he would declare.
        The Bishop is survived by two sisters, Josephine Kramer and Rose Wynn, both of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph, of Middle Village, Queens, and many nieces and nephews.
        The wake will be held from 2 to 7:30 P.M. tomorrow and Monday and from 2 to 5 P.M. on Tuesday at St. James Cathedral in downtown Brooklyn. The funeral Mass will be offered at 11 A.M. Wednesday at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Basilica in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Burial will follow at the Episcopal crypt at Immaculate Conception Center in Douglaston, Queens.
      