
        Dr. Gerson D. Cohen, chancellor emeritus of the Jewish Theological Seminary, who in 1985 ordained the first female rabbi in Conservative Judaism, died on Friday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 66 years old.
        Dr. Cohen died of a disease of the nervous system, according to a spokeswoman for the seminary.
        Dr. Cohen served as chancellor of the seminary, the intellectual center of Conservative Judaism, for 14 years until his retirement for health reasons in 1986. The seminary, which is just north of Columbia University in Morningside Heights, also has campuses in Jerusalem and Los Angeles.
        When he became chancellor in 1972, Dr. Cohen subscribed to the traditional Jewish view that women could not serve as rabbis because they did not have the full religious obligations of men, like prayer three times daily. He agreed, however, to set up a commission to study the issue. Same Obligations as Men
        As a result of his own inquiry and the work of the commission, Dr. Cohen ruled that women could be ordained if they assumed the same obligations as men. He said that the change was consistent with the philosophy of the Conservative movement, that Jewish law could change to meet contemporary issues.
        In 1983, when the faculty of the seminary voted to admit women to the rabbinical program, Dr. Cohen said, "We've overcome the inhibitions of centuries and achieved a major step in the equalization of women in Jewish religious life."
        Two years later he bestowed the title rabbi on Amy Eilberg of Bloomington, Ind., who became the first woman ordained in the movement. Reform Judaism, the major liberal movement, began ordaining women in 1972. The more traditional Orthodox movement does not ordain women.
        Dr. Cohen was born to a Hebrew-speaking family in the Bronx and began taking classes at the Jewish Theological Seminary as a teen-ager. After he was ordained there in 1948, he received a doctorate in history from Columbia, where he became the Gustav Gottheil Lecturer in Semitic languages and the director of the Center for Israel and Jewish Studies. Oversaw Rebuilding of Library
        He joined the seminary faculty full time as a professor of history in 1970 and became chancellor in 1972. During his tenure as chancellor he oversaw the rebuilding of the seminary library, which was destroyed by fire in 1966. In 1983, after a major fund-raising drive, the library reopened and fast became one of the major repositories of Judaica in the world.
        Dr. Cohen also expanded the seminary's campus and presence in Israel, establishing the first Conservative rabbinical program in Jersusalem, and led the fight to have Israel recognize the autority of the non-Orthodox movements.
        He is the author of several scholarly works and was a member of the President's Holocaust Commission.
        Dr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Naomi; his mother, Nechama, of Baltimore; a son, Jeremy, of Kfar Saba, Israel; a daughter, Judith Rosen of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Hadassah Gordis of Baltimore; a brother, Yehudi, of New Brunswick, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      