
        Luke Appling, the sure-hitting Hall of Fame shortstop who bedeviled rival pitchers during 20 sparkling years with the Chicago White Sox and then astounded the baseball world by hitting a home run in an old-timers' game at the age of 75, died during emergency surgery yesterday. He was 83 years old and had retired two days earlier as a minor league hitting instructor for the Atlanta Braves.
        He had been suffering from an abdominal aneuryism, according to officials of Lakeside Community Hospital in Cumming, Ga. He lived in Cumming since joining the Braves in 1976.
        Appling, who hit over .300 in all but four seasons, won the American League batting title twice and retired in 1950 with a .310 career average. Old Aches and Pains
        He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1964, and if his hitting had not been credential enough, Old Aches and Pains, as he was known, would have surely qualified for the Hall as baseball's leading hypochondriac.
        Among the maladies he said afflicted him over the years were indigestion, a stiff neck, fallen arches, a sore throat, dizzy spells, torn leg tendons, insomnia, symptoms of gout, astigmatism, a throbbing sensation in a kneecap, and once, after taking a ferry ride, mal de mer.
        His constant stream of complaints might have become intolerable to his teammates if Appling had not developed a novel remedy. He simply took his misery out on opposing pitchers, rapping out 2,749 hits, all but 587 of them singles. Best When Worst
        His best season was in 1936 when he led the league with a .388 average, the highest ever for a shortstop. He missed winning the title again in 1940, when his .348 average was 4 points behind Joe DiMaggio's, but he won the 1943 championship with a .328 average.
        Appling, who suffered only one truly disabling injury, a broken ankle that kept him out of half of the 1938 season, said he played best when he felt worst. When his average declined to .262 in 1942 after nine straight .300 seasons, he attributed the slump to the fact that he was completely healthy all year. Fortunately, his maladies returned the next year and he resumed his .300 pace with his league-leading .328 in 1943. He spent much of the next two years in the service before returning for the end of the 1945 season.
        The Appling specialty was the whistling line drive over or between infielders, and pitchers considered themselves lucky if Appling got his hit early in the count rather than late. That was because he was a finicky batter who had the rare ability to foul off strikes that were not quite to his liking. Tired Out Pitchers
        As a result, he averaged an estimated 15 fouls into the stands a game, costing the White Sox about $2,300 in lost balls a year, the club once figured, and inordinately tiring pitchers since facing Appling could easily turn into an inning's worth of work.
        Ted Lyons, Chicago's ace pitcher during the Appling years, once described the devastating effect Appling could have on a pitcher:
        "I remember when Luke ran Charlie Ruffing of the Yankees right out of the game. It was a steaming hot day and when Appling was up in the first inning with two out and two on. Charlie got three balls and two strikes on him. Then Luke stood there and fouled off 14 pitches in a row. Finally he walked and the next batter hit one for a homer. It wasn't long before Ruffing was taken out." Turned Professional in 1930
        Lucius Benjamin Appling was born in High Point, N.C., on April 2, 1907, and raised in Atlanta, where he played football and baseball at Fulton High School and then spent two years at Oglethorpe University. He entered professional baseball in 1930, first with the Atlanta Crackers and toward the end of the season with the White Sox.
        During his first few seasons in Chicago he was a modest hitter and a terrible fielder. His 55 errors were the most for a shortstop in 1933. The next year the White Sox third baseman, Jimmy Dykes, took over as manager, and his treatment of the moody Appling was credited with transforming his play.
        After his retirement as a player in 1950 he served as a minor league manager and a major league coach with a series of teams, including the Kansas City Athletics, which used him as manager for the last 40 games of 1967.  Hit Homer at 75
        In 1970, Appling, the only White Sox player to win a batting championship, was named the greatest player in the history of the White Sox by local baseball writers.
        The high point of his later career came during an old-timers' game in Washington in 1982 when the 75-year-old Appling, who hit only 45 home runs in his entire major league career, slammed a homer into the left-field stands off 61-year-old Warren Spahn.
        "It was a good pitch," Appling said later, "and I just swung away."
        He is survived by his wife, Fay; a brother, Clyde; three sisters, Inez Jones, Dola Campbell and Marie Shelton; a son, Luke 3d of Alpharetta, Ga.; two daughters, Carol Tribble and Linda Sumpter of Alpharetta, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 5, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Luke Appling, the former major league shortstop, referred incorrectly in some copies to the Kansas City team he managed during part of the 1967 season. It was the Athletics, not the Royals.
      