
        Herbert Ferber, an internationally recognized Abstract Expressionist sculptor, died yesterday at his summer home in North Egremont, Mass. He was 85 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer of the bile duct, his wife, Edith, said.
        Mr. Ferber was one of a small group of American sculptors who in the 1940's began to break with the traditional notion of sculpture as a solid, closed mass. He made open, airy forms that, as he put it, "pierced" space rather than displaced it, and he is credited with creating, in 1960, one of the first environmental sculptures intended for people to walk through.
        Influenced by Surrealism, his baroquely exaggerated Abstract Expressionist works were heavily charged with symbol and myth. They were full of expressive movement, suggesting figures in flight, plant and animal life, the shapes of bones and fossils. But by the early 1960's his sculptural vocabulary had become leaner, relying more on simpler shapes like ovals and segmented circles. Often, his forms were confined in cagelike constructions.
        Mr. Ferber was also an accomplished painter, his canvases taking the form of sculpturelike reliefs on which he painted abstract motifs. Work in Many Museums
        The sculptor's works are in the collections of major museums throughout the world, including the Metropolitan, the Modern and the Whitney Museums in New York. His New York dealer for many years was M. Knoedler & Co., where he had his last show in September 1990.
        In 1971, Mr. Ferber shocked the art world by charging the executors of the estate of the Abstract Expressionist painter Mark Rothko with entering into a conspiracy with the Marlborough Gallery to waste the estate's assets. Mr. Ferber was the guardian of Rothko's daughter, Kate.
        The charges brought about an eight-month trial, ending in October 1974, which eventually resulted in the removal of the executors, dismissal of the gallery and the imposition of heavy fines on all of those named in the suit. Kate Rothko was appointed executor of the estate, and the paintings were divided between her and her brother, Christopher, and a foundation that gave its share of the works to museums.
        Mr. Ferber was born on April 30, 1906, in New York City. He attended the City College of New York, then went on to study dentistry and oral surgery at Columbia University. He received a B.S. degree from the university in 1929. But sculpture -- which he studied at the Beaux Arts Institute of Design while pursuing courses at Columbia -- claimed his interest, and he never practiced dentistry. From Wood to Metal
        Using wood as a medium, he had his first one-man show at the Midtown Gallery in 1937. But before the 1940's ended, he decided that he had gone as far as he could with wood sculpture. He began to work in metal, influenced by the freely interpreted, semi-abstract figure sculptures of the Spanish artist Julio Gonzales, who taught the art of iron welding to Picasso.
        His work achieved its first wide public recognition in 1952, when his metal construction "And the Bush Was Not Consumed," commissioned for the facade of the B'nai Israel Synagogue in Millburn, N.J., was exhibited in that year's "Fifteen Americans" show at the Museum of Modern Art.
        There followed a number of commissions for synagogues, among them the candelabrum and altar decoration for the chapel of Brandeis University. Among his other comissions were a copper sculpture for the John F. Kennedy Office Building in Boston, an environmental sculpture for Rutgers University, and a steel sculpture for the American Dental Association Building in Chicago.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Edith Popiel.
        Correction:  August 22, 1991, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about the sculptor Herbert Ferber described his career in dentistry incorrectly. He indeed practiced, for many years. He was also on the faculty of the Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery from 1930 to the early 1970's, specializing in periodontics and publishing a number of scientific papers in the field.
      