
        Harley O. Staggers Sr., a West Virginia Congressman for 32 years who is credited with helping to revive the nation's rail system, died yesterday at Sacred Heart Hospital in Cumberland, Md. He was 84 years old and lived in Keyser, W.Va.
        Mr. Staggers died of congestive heart failure and respiratory failure, a family spokesman said.
        From 1949 to 1981 he represented West Virginia's Second District, a sweeping mountainous region that covered the state's least populated areas.  His son Harley Jr. has represented the district since 1983.
        An old-style liberal Democrat, Mr. Staggers in the mid-1950's proposed the creation of a domestic Marshall Plan to curb unemployment and proposed the creation of a new Cabinet-level post, Secretary of Peace. Daylight Time an Issue
        In 1966, Mr. Staggers won passage of a law requiring uniform observance of daylight-saving time. Referring to the confusion that the law was meant to correct, he said at the time, "It's a small thing, but it irritates thousands of people in this land."
        During one hearing, he cited a Moundsville, W.Va., bus driver who encountered seven time changes while making runs to St. Clairsville, Ohio, a distance of about 20 miles.
        That same year, Mr. Staggers became chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee. He used his platform to influence laws on energy, broadcasting, health and transportation.
        He used his position in the House to insure that train lines through West Virginia continued to operate. He also helped convince the Department of Transportation to spend $120 million for the experimental Personal Rapid Transit system, which used computer-controlled passenger cars at West Virginia University in Morgantown.
        But he also suffered setbacks that were unusual for a powerful committee chairman.
        In 1971, he tried to force CBS to turn over to his committee the outtakes from a documentary on the Pentagon, but he was rebuked when the full House voted against his proposal for citing the network for contempt for refusing to comply.
        In 1975, Mr. Staggers was ousted from the chairmanship of his committee's Investigations Subcommittee by those who thought the panel was inactive under his leadership.
        In one of his last acts in the House, he successfully pushed for passage of the Staggers Rail Act of 1980. The law brought about partial deregulation of the national railway system.
        The act created competition within the railway system and with the trucking industry, and is credited by economists with making the nation's railroads more efficient. Economists who studied the issue have said the act saved at least $20 billion by eliminating wasteful train routes and encouraging competition.
        "There's a consensus among economists that regulation was doing more harm than good," said Theodore E. Keeler, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley, who studies transportation. "That view certainly was vindicated."
        Harley Orrin Staggers was born in a two-room log cabin in Mineral County, W.Va., on Aug. 3, 1907. He would have gone to work as a railroad hand, his son Harley said, had he not been a high school football star.
        "He used to say that he wouldn't have gotten a college education without the sports," his son said in an interview yesterday. "Without that help he would have been in railroads."
        Mr. Staggers graduated from Emory and Henry College in Emory, Va., in 1931. He was a college football and basketball coach, until he became a sheriff of Mineral County in 1937.
        Mr. Staggers served in naval aviation during World War II and was elected to Congress in 1948.
        In addition to his son Harley, Mr. Staggers is survived by his wife, Mary; another son, Daniel Casey Staggers of Keyser, and four daughters, Margaret Ann Staggers of Beckley, W.Va., Mary Katherine Staggers of Burlington, W.Va.; Frances Susan Tasker of Keyser, and Elizabeth Ellen Shank of Morgantown, and 10 grandchildren.
      