
        Sydney Gittler, a retail executive known for offering the finest line-for-line copies of European couture coats and suits during the 1950's, 60's and 70's, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said his brother Dr. Robert Gittler.
        In his days at Ohrbach's department store, first as a buyer of coats and suits and later as a vice president, Mr. Gittler went twice a year to the haute couture shows in Paris, Rome and London. There, from a favored front-row seat, he chose the styles to be copied in this country and sold in his store for a fraction of the originals' prices.
        Although other stores also sold copies of European couture, Mr. Gittler's were generally considered to be the best. He often used the original fabrics and oversaw the production by manufacturers whose identities he would not divulge.  Shows Attracted Celebrities
        Hubert de Givenchy, the Paris couturier, once visited Ohrbach's in the early 1960's to check on the mass-produced copies of one of his coats and voiced amazement. "But it is perfection," he said.
        Mr. Gittler's store also copied Balenciaga, Chanel, Dior and Courreges. In those days, before couture houses had their own ready-to-wear lines, American stores could see the shows by paying a fee, which was applied to the purchase price of the original models.
        Mr. Gittler and his colleagues at Ohrbach's would put on fashion shows in the 34th Street store that were the hot tickets of the day, attracting socialites and celebrities that included Babe Paley, Doris Duke, Marietta Tree, Mildred Hilson and Lauren Bacall.
        The man who was known in the fashion industry as "the coat king" came by his career naturally. His father, Adolph, was a manufacturer of women's coats in New York, where Sydney was born and raeared.
        After three years at New York University, Sydney Gittler went to work at Oppenheim Collins in 1929 as a stockboy. Jobs followed at Gimbels and Bloomingdale's, the store that sent him on his first buying trip to Paris in 1936.
        He then worked at Macy's before going to Ohrbach's in December 1953. He stayed there until retiring in 1973, and continued as a consultant for several years.
        Besides his brother Robert, a Manhattan physician, Mr. Gittler is survived by another brother, Samuel, a retired leather importer who lives in New York, and four nephews.
      