
        Wolfgang Hildesheimer, a novelist, playwright and painter whose 1977 biography of Mozart became an international best seller, died on Wednesday. He was 74 years old.
        He died of a heart attack at his home, his family said.
        Mr. Hildesheimer's "Mozart" differed from previous biographies of the composer by acknowledging that while he was a musical genius, he had notable character flaws. Edward Rothstein, reviewing the 1982 American edition in The New York Times Book Review, described "Mozart" as an attempt "to clean away the detritus that has accumulated around the composer's life" and praised it as "a thoughtful and intriguing work, a most honorable attempt at musical understanding."
        Mr. Hildesheimer first caught the attention of critics in 1952 with his "Loveless Legends," a collection of amusing and malicious tales of the world of intellectuals and artists. His novels included "Tynset," the minutes of a sleepless night, which was published in 1965, and "Marbot," a 1981 fictional biography of an imaginary historical figure in Victorian England.
        "Marbot" was acclaimed by critics as having achieved what Mr. Hildesheimer termed the highest goal of literature: turning fiction into truth. Also in 1981, his absurdist play "Mary Stuart" was presented at the Public Theater in New York City. Frank Rich, writing in The New York Times, called the second half of the play "rudely -- no, obscenely -- funny." The End of Fiction
        A year later, Mr. Hildesheimer surprised his fans by announcing that he was quitting writing. Fiction, he said, was coming to an end in a world that was doomed because earth would become uninhabitable.
        "Literature as I see it is ceasing to exist or is already dead," he said in a 1985 interview. Moreover, he added, "All of us will be without readers in a foreseeable future because everybody is too busy worrying about how to survive."
        Mr. Hildesheimer was born in Hamburg, Germany, in 1916. He was sent to school in England by his Jewish father, and the rest of his family emigrated to England from Germany in 1933.
        Mr. Hildesheimer started a career as a stage designer and graphic artist before starting to write. After a stint as British information officer in Palestine, he served as an interpreter at the Nuremberg war crimes trials. His early novels reflect some of the haunting testimony he had had to translate.
        Mr. Hildesheimer settled in Poschiavo in southeastern Switzerland near the Italian border more than 30 years ago. Switzerland made him an honorary citizen in 1982.
        In the last few years he concentrated on his collages and other works of art that were shown at various international exhibitions.
        He is survived by his wife, Silvia, and two step-daughters.
      