
        Abel Kiviat, a former world-recordholder in the 1,500-meter run who won a silver medal in the 1912 Olympics, died Saturday afternoon at his home in Lakehurst, N.J. He was 99 years old.
        Before his death, Mr. Kiviat was the oldest living American Olympian.
        A family friend said yesterday that he died of prostate cancer.
        Mr. Kiviat was a track and field hero before World War I, then for almost 60 years he disappeared from the public scene.
        But in the 1980's, he was rediscovered and became a folk hero, a dapper, grandfatherly type with a white mustache, a quick wit, quick opinions and a zest for his new public role. He was scheduled to be a participant at the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, next year. All-Star Status
        Mr. Kiviat was born June 23, 1892, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. His family soon moved to Staten Island. There he became New York City's all-star schoolboy shortstop in baseball and its half-mile and mile champion in track while at Curtis High School.
        In the next few years, Mr. Kiviat set three world records outdoors and six indoors, and won nine United States titles. Although he was Jewish, he was the captain of the Irish-American Athletic Club, America's dominant track team of the time, for five consecutive years.
        In 1911, at age 18, he won the 600-yard and 1,000-yard titles in the Amateur Athletic Union two-day national indoor championships. In 1913, he became the only runner ever to win both titles in one day.
        In 1912, he lowered his world record for 1,500 meters to 3 minutes 55.8 seconds. After crossing the finish line, he kept running, hoping to break the world record for the mile of 4:15.4. He failed by a fifth of a second.
        "I was tired," he said. "I did the last 150 yards about as fast as I could walk."  Watching Gold Slip Away
        Mr. Kiviat, 5 feet 5 inches and 110 pounds, with slightly bowed legs, entered the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm as the world-record holder and favorite in the 1,500 meters.
        He led until the last 8 meters, when Arnold Strode Jackson of Britain ran by and just beat him. No American won that Olympic race, and only three others, Glenn Cunningham in 1936, Bob McMillan in 1952 and Jim Ryun in 1968, won silver medals.
        "That race was the biggest disappointment of my life," Mr. Kiviat said. "I never saw Jackson. It was my own fault. What was I waiting for?"
        For two nights during those Olympics, Mr. Kiviat's roommate was Jim Thorpe, the American Indian who won the Olympic decathlon (10 events in two days) and pentathlon (five other events in one day).
        Mr. Thorpe's Olympic victories were reversed when it was found that he had accepted money for playing semiprofessional baseball two years earlier.
        In 1915, the A.A.U. suspended Mr. Kiviat, saying he had requested exorbitant expense money for running in a meet in Troy, N.Y. Mr. Kiviat denied the charge and was reinstated in 1923. He ran for a few more years, but not at his previous level. Working in Press Box
        Until age 71, he worked as a deputy clerk for the Southern District of the United States Federal Court in Manhattan. He also served as an unpaid press-box steward at Madison Square Garden track meets and at the Penn Relays in Philadelphia. He eventually moved to a retirement community in Lakehurst.
        Mr. Kiviat was all but forgotten until 1982, when Stan Saplin, a New York track writer and historian, suggested that Mr. Kiviat be honored on his 90th birthday. Fred Lebow, the president of the New York Road Runners Club and director of the New York City Marathon, staged a ceremony honoring him.
        Mr. Kiviat became a sudden celebrity. He took his first plane ride, to Hollywood to appear on television with Johnny Carson. He flew to Sweden to relive his Olympic glory in a film for Bud Greenspan.
        In 1984, in the Olympic torch relay from the United Nations Secretariat in Manhattan to Los Angeles, the torch was carried on the first kilometer by Bill Thorpe, Jim Thorpe's grandson, and Gina Hemphill, Jesse Owens's granddaughter.
        They passed the baton to the 91-year-old Mr. Kiviat, who ran and walked and joked his way through the next kilometer.
        In 1985, Mr. Kiviat was voted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame. Dramatic Changes
        Mr. Kiviat loved to talk about his running days, and he recalled details of races and conversations three-quarters of a century before. He said the sport had changed dramatically.
        "The way runners live today," he said, "they go to Colorado to train and get paid for it. We were amateurs. We barely had a dime in our pocket for a beer. And the way they train. They run more in a week than I did in a year.
        "Today, you hear of high school kids running 50-60 miles a week. I never ran 5 miles in a week. If I was running a race on Saturday and another on Sunday, I wouldn't train that whole week."
        Mr. Kiviat is survived by a son, Arthur Kiviette; a grandson and three great-grandchildren.
      