
        Niven Busch, a screenwriter and novelist best known for his novel "Duel in the Sun," which David O. Selznick made into a classic western film in 1947, died at his home on Sunday. He was 88 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        He died of heart failure, said his son Jerry.
        Born in New York and educated at Princeton University, Mr. Busch worked for Time magazine and The New Yorker before moving to Hollywood in 1931. Novels and Movies
        For the next 21 years he was a screenwriter at such studios as Warner Brothers, 20th Century Fox, Goldwyn, Paramount and Universal. He also published 14 novels.
        He was nominated for an Academy Award for best original screenplay in 1937 for "In Old Chicago." During his career, he wrote more than 20 screenplays including "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946), but he was most successful as a writer of westerns. Among his best-known films of the genre are "Pursued," "The Westerner," "Distant Drums" and "Man From the Alamo."
        His 1944 novel, "Duel in the Sun," about a half-breed Indian girl and her love for two Texan brothers, was scorned by critics for its so-called unreal characters and historical inaccuracies. But the producer Mr. Selznick made it into one of Hollywood's top-grossing films of its time, starring Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones, his wife.
        Mr. Busch had no hand in the making of "Duel in the Sun" other than to sell the screen rights to Mr. Selznick. The credit for the screenplay went to Mr. Selznick and Oliver H. P. Garrett.
        Mr. Busch frequently expressed his belief that the mythology of the all-powerful western hero was deeply embedded in the American psyche. In 1980, speaking to a reporter about the Iran hostage crisis, he said, "I think we do have this feeling that a great screen cowboy like John Wayne could go in there and blast his way in and free the hostages."
        Mr. Busch left Hollywood in 1952 and bought a ranch in Hollister, Calif., before moving to San Francisco.
        He also taught at University of California campuses at Irvine, San Diego and Berkeley.
        Mr. Busch was married several times. His wives included the actress Teresa Wright, whom he married in 1942 and divorced 10 years later.
        In addition to his son Jerry, of Santa Cruz, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Suzanne; four other sons, Peter, of Santa Fe, N.M.; Briton, of Hamilton, N.Y.; Terence, of Berkeley, Calif., and Nicholas, of San Francisco; two daughters, Mary Kelly of Clinton, Conn., and Eliza, of San Francisco; a sister, Beatrice, of Beverly Hills, Calif.,; a stepdaughter, Juanita de Sanz of Berkeley, and two stepsons, Miguel de Sanz of Berkeley, and Marc de Sanz of San Anselmo, Calif.
      