
        Dr. Irving Bieber, a psychoanalyst and professor who headed a major study in 1962 on the origins of homosexuality, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of pulmonary complications, a friend of the family said.
        Dr. Bieber, a professor emeritus in the psychiatry department at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., taught psychoanalysis, wrote about it and conducted research into it for 60 years. But he was best known for his controversial view of homosexuality. He believed it was an illness that could be treated or prevented through psychotherapy -- a view that has since been discredited.
        Born in New York City, Dr. Bieber graduated from New York University Medical College in 1930. He worked at Yale Medical College and New York University before joining the New York Medical College in 1953. There, he helped devise a course in psychoanalysis that was the first of its kind. Importance of the Father
        In 1962 he headed a team of colleagues that published "Homosexuality: A Psychoanalytical Study of Male Homosexuals" (Basic Books), a nine-year study of 106 gay men. The study, the largest and most extensive on the origins of homosexuality at that time, held that disruptions in family relationships early in life contributed to a child's homosexual development. It concluded: "A constructive, supportive, warmly related father precludes the possibility of a homosexual son; he acts as a neutralizing, protective agent should the mother make seductive or close-binding attempts."
        Dr. Bieber's study helped bring candor to the discussion of homosexuality, but his view of it as deviant behavior was controversial even then and has since been disavowed. In 1973, the American Psychiatric Association removed homosexuality from its list of psychiatric disorders, but Dr. Bieber remained steadfast, telling an interviewer the same year that "a homosexual is a person whose heterosexual function is crippled, like the legs of a polio victim." 'Took a Lot of Abuse'
        Dr. Judd Marmor, who is a psychiatrist and professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and who was a classmate and colleague of Dr. Bieber's, said yesterday: "It was one of Dr. Bieber's characteristics that he found it very hard to admit his mistakes.
        "I think he made only one major error -- his insistence that homosexuality was an illness," Dr. Marmor said, "and for that he took a lot of abuse in his later years, which I'm sure was very painful for him. But he never backed down."
        Dr. Bieber is survived by his wife, Dr. Tony Bieber, a psychologist and psychoanalyst who collaborated on several of her husband's papers, and a sister, Roslind Byrnes, of New Rochelle, N.Y.
        Correction:  August 29, 1991, Thursday
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Dr. Irving Bieber, a psychoanalyst, was published in error. It showed Dr. Robert L. Spitzer, another psychiatrist, who was photographed alongside Dr. Bieber in a 1973 discussion of homosexuality.
      