
        The Rev. Dr. John Mosher Mulligan, who directed the 157-year-old Seamen's Church Institute in Manhattan during a period of great growth, died on Sunday at his home in Keene Valley, N.Y. He was 79 years old and also lived in the Florida Keys, in Islamorada.
        He died after a heart attack, said Andrea Lane, a spokeswoman for the institute.
        Dr. Mulligan directed the Seamen's Church Institute from 1960 to 1976. During those years the institute built a 23-story headquarters at 25 South Street in lower Manhattan and opened a branch in Newark as the port area there supplanted Manhattan as the center of cargo shipping in the New York region. The Episcopal Church created the Seamen's Church Institute in 1834, primarily to lodge merchant sailors arriving in New York. Today it trains sailors in maritime rules and techniques and offers them social and legal services.
        Dr. Mulligan began his career in 1938 as the chaplain and master of the Salisbury School in Connecticut, and, simultaneously, as master of Bible at the Hotchkiss School in Connecticut. Rector at All Angels
        In 1942 he was appointed priest in charge of Trinity Church in Lime Rock, Conn. Five years later he became the seventh rector of All Angels Episcopal Church at West End Avenue and 81st Street in Manhattan.
        While at All Angels Dr. Mulligan published "Toward City Conservation," a book written to New Yorkers in memorandum form that proposed a multifaceted government and neighborhood approach to cleaning up the city and preventing slums. The book was published by the League of West Side Organizations, of which Dr. Mulligan was co-chairman.
        Dr. Mulligan was a native of Yonkers and received a bachelor of arts degree from St. Stephens College of Columbia University, a bachelor of sacred theology degree from Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass., and a doctorate of divinity from Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson.
        He is survived by his wife, Katherine Parton Mulligan; three daughters, Katherine Webster of Summit, N.J., Patricia Healy of Surbiton, England, and Elizabeth Jaques of Keene Valley, N.Y., and a son, John Emerson Mulligan of Urbanna, Va.
      