
        Walter Taylor Fisher, a Chicago lawyer and civic leader who gained national attention for the tenacity with which he pursued a celebrated double-jeopardy case that he argued before the United States Supreme Court, died Tuesday at his home in Highland Park, Ill. He was 99 years old.
        Prof. Roger Fisher of Harvard Law School, one of his five sons, said the elder Mr. Fisher had died in his sleep.
        The case that brought Mr. Fisher to national prominence involved Alfonse Bartkus, a poor man whom a Federal jury had acquitted of robbing a federally insured bank but whom an Illinois court had convicted of the same robbery. Mr. Fisher was appointed by the Supreme Court in January 1957 to argue Mr. Bartkus's contention that these successive prosecutions -- one Federal, one state -- amounted to double jeopardy.
        Mr. Fisher lost the case before the Justices, first on a tie vote of 4 to 4 and then, on rehearing, by 5 to 4. He then turned to the Illinois Legislature, which at his urging passed a law in 1959 that barred state prosecution of any person for a criminal act for which the Federal Government had already prosecuted ther person.
        But because the law did not apply retroactively, it did not free Mr. Bartkus, who was serving a life term. Mr. Fisher went back to work, writing letters, petitioning, beseeching. On Jan. 3, 1961, four years after Mr. Fisher took on the case, Gov. William G. Stratton commuted Mr. Bartkus's sentence to time already served.  Harvard Law Graduate
        Mr. Fisher, a native of Chicago, graduated from Harvard and its law school and was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1918. Over the years, he held a number of posts in government, education and civic affairs. He was a partner in the Chicago law firm of Bell, Boyd and Lloyd and served as Illinois Commerce Commissioner under Gov. Adlai E. Stevenson from 1949 to 1953. He was an early member of the American Civil Liberties Union and a onetime member of its national committee.
        Mr. Fisher's first wife, the former Katherine Dummer, died in 1961, and his second, the former Margaret Wallerstein Rieser, in 1978. The next year he married Laura K. Pollak, who survives. Besides Roger Fisher, a resident of Cambridge, Mass., his surviving sons are Francis D., also of Cambridge; Walter D. of Evanston, Ill.; John V. of Lind, Wash., and Gerard H. of Williamsburg, Va. Also surviving are a daughter, Ethel S. Fisher of Santa Fe, N.M.; 10 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren, as well as stepchildren and their descendants.
      