
        Gordon Heath, who lived an expatriate life in Paris after winning critical praise on Broadway in 1945 for his performance in "Deep Are the Roots," died on Tuesday at the Clinique Edouard Rie in Paris. He was 72 years old.
        He died after a long illness, said Alain Woisson, his longtime companion.
        In "Deep Are the Roots," written by Arnaud d'Usseau and James Gow and directed by Elia Kazan, Mr. Heath played a young black lieutenant who returns from World War II to find little changed in the Deep South. He cannot marry the white girl (Barbara Bel Geddes) whom he loves.
        "I guess you still couldn't do that in a place like Memphis," Mr. Heath said in a 1970 interview in New York. He was in town to play the title role in an adaptation of Sophocles' "Oedipus" at the Roundabout Theater, his first performance in New York in more than two decades.
        Mr. Heath appeared in "Deep Are the Roots" for 14 months on Broadway and then for six months in the West End of London. In Paris, he discovered "a free air and a free people," congenial for blacks, and by 1948 he had made it his home.
        The next year he and Lee Payant, whom he had met in the United States, opened a nightclub called L'Abbaye. They played guitar and sang American and French folk songs there for some 30 years, until Mr. Payant's death from cancer in 1976.
        Mr. Heath also acted in Paris, in French and English, and in London, where he played Othello on stage in 1950 and later for BBC Television. For 10 years, starting in the 1960's, he directed an English-speaking production company, the Studio Theater of Paris.
        Reviewing "Oedipus" in The New York Times in 1970, Clive Barnes wrote, "A man born to play the prince, Mr. Heath has an instinctive nobility and moves and talks with all the natural authority of a classic hero." The actor returned to the Roundabout in 1977 to play Hamm in Beckett's "Endgame."
        An autobiography, "Deep Are the Roots: Memoirs of a Black Expatriate," is to be published by the University of Massachusetts Press next spring.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      