
        Pierre Guillaumat, often called the architect of France's energy independence and the first president of ELF-Aquitaine, France's largest oil company, died on Wednesday. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Guillaumat's family declined to indicate his cause of death, Agence France-Presse said.
        After World War II, Gen. Charles de Gaulle, asked Mr. Guillaumat, a decorated Resistance hero, to steer France's energy industry so that it would not depend on the giant American and British oil companies.
        In pursuing this task, he came to be known as the country's energy czar and was more powerful than many Cabinet ministers.  Oil and Nuclear Specialist
        As head of the French Office of Oil Research, he oversaw discoveries in Algeria, Gabon and Congo during the 1950's. During that time, he also served as director of the French Atomic Energy Commission when France developed its own atomic bomb.
        Mr. Guillaumat was born on Aug. 5, 1909 in La Fleche in the Sarthe region, the son of Gen. Adolphe Guillaumat and Louise Bibent. He earned a mining-engineering degree at the Ecole Polytechnique in 1928.
        In 1934 he entered the French colonial administration to direct state-owned mining and petroleum concerns in Indochina and Tunisia. During World War II he served in France's Third Army under General de Gaulle.  Discoveries in Africa
        In 1944 he was named France's Director of Hydrocarbon Development. During eight years in that position and 14 years as head of the Office of Energy Research, France made many oil discoveries in Africa, achieving a measure of self-sufficiency.
        In 1951 Mr. Guillaumat was named director of the Atomic Energy Commission, and from 1954 to 1959 he headed Electricite de France, the state-owned utility.
        He served as Army Minister in 1958-59 and as junior minister for research and atomic energy in 1960-62.
        In 1966, he was named the first head of ELF-Aquitaine, a state-owned concern formed from the merger of several French oil companies. He led ELF-Aquitaine until 1977.
      