
        William Ball, the founder of the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, was found dead at his apartment in Hollywood on Tuesday. He was 60 years old.
        The coroner's office said the cause of death had not been determined.
        Mr. Ball founded the theater in Pittsburgh in 1965, took it to San Francisco in 1967 and was its artistic director until 1986. He resigned after a disagreement with the board during financial and artistic problems at the company.
        He then moved to Los Angeles, where he developed television movies and mini-series for Bud Yorkin Productions for nearly two years. He also taught, wrote and returned to acting, in theater, television and film.
        At the height of its prominence in the late 1960's and early 1970's, the theater was widely known for the physical exuberance and close ensemble work of its actors, as well as for its conservatory, whose acting classes ranged from laughing techniques to karate and "histrionics."
        "William Ball was certainly one of a handful of the most creative directors that the nonprofit theater developed in the 1960's," said Peter Zeisler, executive director of the Theater Communications Group, the organization of nonprofit professional theaters. "He single-handedly built the American Conservatory Theater into one of the most important theaters in the country." His most significant contribution, Mr. Zeisler said, was to establish a conservatory that works in conjunction with the theater, like a teaching hospital. He Criticized the Method
        Mr. Ball said he wanted to "uninhibit the actor," enabling him to "assert himself wildly" and perform with "a flamboyant, dashing style."
        He was critical of Method acting, which he felt had come to dominate the American theater. "Ask a highly experienced actor to do a comic double take and he often doesn't know how," he said in a 1967 interview, adding that a frequent excuse was, "But I don't
        feel
        it."
        "If the script requires an actor to laugh, I'd like him to have the technique for laughing, if not the feeling," he said. "There's a back door to the Method: if you
        do
        the act, the feeling will follow."
        He also stopped saying "don't" or "no" during rehearsals, he said, finding that positive words were more effective. "I try to encourage a policy of enhancing an actor's self-esteem, not diminishing it," he said. "I think an actor works best when he respects himself."
        Not all his work drew praise. Critics in New York found fault with some visiting A.C.T. productions, including a 1971 version of "Hamlet" starring Dame Judith Anderson in the title role. "We know the work we do is not perfect," Mr. Ball said at one point. "It isn't meant to be. There are always improvements to be made. Our goal is not popular success. Our goal is human endeavor."  Awards for Directing
        Mr. Ball was born in Chicago. He attended Fordham University in the Bronx, then transferred to the drama school of the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, where he received a B.A. in acting and scenic design in 1953. After a year on a Fulbright scholarship studying repertory theater in England, he returned to Carnegie Tech and obtained an M.A. in directing.
        He acted with regional companies and Shakespeare festivals across the country, then made his New York directing debut with an Off Broadway production of Chekhov's "Ivanov," for which he won Obie and Vernon Rice Drama Desk Awards in 1958.
        He won subsequent awards for his Off Broadway productions of "Under Milk Wood"(1959) and "Six Characters in Search of an Author" (1962).
        After directing at the Stratford Festival in Canada, he returned to New York to write the libretto for an opera, "Natalya Petrovna," with the composer Lee Hoiby. In 1964 he directed "Tartuffe" and "Homage to Shakespeare" at Lincoln Center, then re-created his staging of "Six Characters" in London.
        Among the first plays he directed for A.C.T. were "Tartuffe," "Six Characters," "Under Milk Wood" and "Tiny Alice."
        In 1979 he accepted a Tony Award given to A.C.T. for its work in repertory performance and advanced theater training. He is the author of "A Sense of Direction: Some Observations on the Art of Directing" (1984).
        He is survived by his mother, Catherine; two brothers, Russell and Don, and a sister, Cathie. A memorial service is to be held at 2 P.M. next Friday at the Church of Religious Science, 7677 Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood.
      