
        John Francis Whealon, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Hartford for 22 years, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. Francis L. Geary said the Archbishop "died unexpectedly during a routine surgical procedure" in which the Archbishop's heart rate and rhythm changed severely.
        The Archbishop was due to be discharged from the hospital today. He had been admitted July 27 after he fainted while saying Mass in Windsor Locks. Dr. Geary said yesterday the fainting was caused by abdominal cramping attributed to adhesions from previous cancer surgery. Between 1978 and 1988, the Archbishop had five operations for intestinal cancer.
        The Rev. Thomas J. Barry, secretary to the Archbishop, described him as "a Vatican II bishop with a strong respect for and appreciation of the tradition of the church."  'Pastorally Innovative'
        In 1961 Archbishop Whealon had become the nation's youngest bishop when Pope John XXIII named him Auxiliary Bishop of Cleveland. He was installed in March 1969 as leader of the Archdiocese of Hartford, which encompasses the counties of Hartford, New Haven and Litchfield and has 771,000 Roman Catholics.
        The Archbishop attended every session of the Second Vatican Council and Father Barry suggested that this was reflected in the Archbishop's ministry. "He was pastorally innovative," Father Barry said. "A number of his policies were very ecumenical.'
        He established a program to train married men to be ordained for service as deacons, advocated the promotion of women in the structure of the church and developed a team ministry in which clerical and lay people administer a parish together. These clerical-lay groups have been established in 30 of the 225 parishes of the Archdiocese.
        Archbishop Whealon was active on ecumenical issues, and was chairman of the Committee on Ecumenism of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and head of ChrisConn, the Christian conference of Connecticut.
        The Archbishop quit the Democratic Party in 1988 because of his opposition to abortion, declaring in his column in the weekly Catholic Transcript that he was "unable in conscience to remain a registered Democrat" because of the party's support of legal and government-financed abortions. Objects to Condom Campaign
        In 1974 he said that Roman Catholic health workers who participated in abortions faced excommunication. He resigned from a local television station's program advisory committee because the station did not cancel an episode of the situation comedy "Maude" that dealt with abortion.
        More recently, he took serious exception to a state-sponsored advertising campaign that encouraged sexually active adults to use condoms to prevents AIDS. He called the campaign "a commendable effort but a serious mistake to present condoms as the answer to the threat." The "only true safe way" to avoid AIDS, he said, was through sexual abstinence outside of marriage.
        On other politically charged issues, the prelate had supported the war in Vietnam and defended the maintenance of nuclear weapons.
        An austere and scholarly man who taught scripture and Hebrew, Archbishop John Francis Whealon was born in Barberton, Ohio, and was ordained as a priest in Cleveland in 1945. He founded Borromeo Seminary in Cleveland, where he was diocesan vicar general for six years. He became the sixth bishop of Erie, Pa., in 1967 and two years later was moved to Hartford to become its 10th bishop.
        He is survived by his sisters, Veronica Whealon of Barberton, Ohio, and AnnaMary Costello of Utica, N.Y.
      