
        Soichiro Honda, a rebellious auto mechanic who defied the Japanese Government and built one of the world's biggest and most innovative auto companies from the ruins of World War II, died today. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Honda, who appeared to be in vigorous health until he was hospitalized recently, died of liver failure, a spokesman for Honda Motor Company said.
        Maverick Who Became Symbol
        The son of a blacksmith, Mr. Honda left a small Japanese village in 1922 to
        seek his fortune in Japan's capital and ultimately became a symbol of Japan's remarkable postwar industrial rise. But he was hardly typical of his generation. A fiery maverick who spoke his mind, he was always something of an outsider in his own country, his success spawning as much jealousy in Toyota City as it did in Detroit.
        Following the strategy Mr. Honda laid out, Honda Motor was the first Japanese auto company to build factories in its main market, the United States.  This year Honda is expected to become the third-largest producer of passenger cars in America, displacing Chrysler. Conquering U.S. Market
        Indeed it was in America, not Japan, that the balding engineer with a broad smile and a razor-sharp temper found his greatest success. Taking on an American industry that seemed invincible, in the 1970's he won over a generation of young drivers who were drawn to the fuel efficiency and low emissions of his company's CVCC engines.
        It was a generation that Detroit's Big Three never really won back. Honda's
        two biggest sellers, the Civic and the Accord, emerged as the basic family cars for millions of Americans, and in recent years the company has pushed into the luxury-car market. Toyota and Nissan, which once thought his American auto plant ideas were foolhardy, soon followed.
        The story about how Mr. Honda infuriated the bureaucrats of Japan's powerful Ministry of International Trade and Industry, who ordered him to keep making motorcycles because they had drawn up plans for Japan to have only a handful of auto makers, has become one of the most oft-repeated legends of the Japanese industry. He drew a lesson from it: Government officials, Mr. Honda said a few years ago, "tend to become an obstacle when you try to do something new."
        Indeed, Mr. Honda reveled in his David-vs.-Goliath approach to auto making, and in his later years he delighted in offering stinging critiques of corporate Japan and the way it controls the lives of its workers.
        Always the maverick, he bristled at the most frequently offered explanation of Japan's industrial success: that its population is able to sublimate individual needs to those of the group.
        "Each individual should work for himself -- that's important," he said in a rare interview several years ago. "People will not sacrifice themselves for the company. They come to work at the company to enjoy themselves."
        Whether that credo still applies today is an arguable point. Since he retired in 1973, saying that Honda should be run by young Japanese, not aging executives, Honda Motor has become a huge and far less personal company. Its headquarters tower in Tokyo is now a place of considerable corporate intrigue, though it is still a hotbed of innovation. Only last week the company announced a new, highly fuel-efficient engine, using an approach that Detroit's auto manufacturers have largely dismissed as unworkable.
        Mr. Honda's interest in cars and racing was so intense that even in his last days he liked to wander Honda's research labs, inspecting the work of new engineers and seeking explanations for things he did not like. Learning From Defeats
        "He hated to lose," Shoichiro Irimajiri, who ran Honda's American manufacturing operations through the 1980's and today is the head of the company's research and production, said in an interview today. "But he always
        made us learn something from losing."
        Soichiro Honda was born in 1906 in a village just outside Hamamatsu, in Shizuoka Prefecture, a place known today largely for its giant Honda factory. His father, Gihei, was a blacksmith who fixed bicycles on the side, and Mr. Honda's recollections of his youth mostly centered on the family's poverty. Five of his eight brothers and sisters died in childhood.
        Even as a child Mr. Honda was fascinated with the sound and smell of motors, and he would often travel with his grandfather to see a rice-polishing mill, one of the few motor-driven devices in his remote town. He went to school for only 10 years, and at age 15 struck out for Tokyo, eager to become a mechanic. He quickly got a job at an auto shop, only to discover that his only responsibility was babysitting. But the next year a tremendous earthquake destroyed Tokyo and Mr. Honda got his break: he filled in for mechanics who left their jobs to rebuild their homes.
        Eventually he returned to Hamamatsu to open a branch of the auto shop and quickly became something of a delinquent. He spent much of his time in the company of geisha, and once when he was drunk he went off the side of a bridge
        with several geisha riding in his car. Fortunately, everyone survived that incident. Formal Education Scorned
        In the mid-1930's, Mr. Honda became a race-car driver. He almost died in a crash that left him with a permanent scar. Later in the '30's he married and settled down, but could not sit still for book learning at a technological high school. He never received a diploma, which he said was "worth less than a movie ticket."
        During World War II Mr. Honda's company, which he was then running, built engines for aircraft and for the Imperial Navy. After the war he sold it to the company that would become his nemesis, Toyota, and spent the year brewing his own alcohol.
        But soon he found opportunity in the wreckage of the war. Obtaining some military surplus engines, he attached them to bicycles and sold them to people who desperately needed transportation to farm areas to ward off starvation. From that emerged the motorcycle, and soon Honda's own engines.
        Soon Mr. Honda's first popular model, the Dream, covered the Japanese
        islands. Impatient with anything but engineering, he brought in Takeo Fujisawa, a businessman, who obtained the company's financing and became Mr. Honda's closest partner. From Motorcycles to Cars
        His motorcycle business prospered: one of Honda's factories became the biggest in the world. But the engineer's mind was on a car. In 1957, he came up with one, called the N360, and fended off the bureaucrats who thought he should merge his company into other, stronger automakers. He refused.
        The car project created a generation of Honda disciples, many of whom are running the company today. Few have forgotten their awe and fear of Mr. Honda. In the mid-1960's, Mr. Irimajiri designed a new piston for a Grand Prix race car, "Theoretically it should have worked," Mr. Irimajiri said ruefully today. It burned out in mid-race.
        Mr. Honda ordered the engine reconstructed and soon found the culprit. "I hate college graduates," he told Mr. Irimajiri. "They only use their heads." Under questioning, Mr. Irimajiri conceded that he had not sought the advice of
        the old mechanics with less book learning and more experience. On the founder's orders he then walked through the tooling shops, bowing and apologizing profusely. "I looked behind me," Mr. Irimajiri recalled today, "and he was following my every step."
        But Mr. Honda never used his reliance on experience to stifle innovation. The true test came with the CVCC.
        The engine used a startling new design, one that burned a leaner mix of gasoline and passed emissions tests -- the main barrier to the American market -- without using a catalytic converter. Until then Japanese makers had slavishly followed Detroit. But the new Honda Civics captured the low end of the market, and gave Honda, which has never been as popular with Japanese auto buyers as with Americans, the wedge it needed. New Plant in U.S.
        Mr. Honda retired the next year, 1973, and watched from the sidelines as his successors built a sprawling factory in Ohio.
        To other Japanese automakers, it was a proposition that seemed to make little
        economic sense at the time. But quickly such "transplants" became linchpin of Japan's trade strategy with the United States, a response to Detroit's efforts to limit the import of cars from Japan. It was successful beyond anything envisioned by the Big Three, or by the unions, which have not been successful at organizing workers at the plants.
        Honda is still enmeshed in the political debate over whether it is truly an "American" or "Japanese" auto company. Mr. Honda's vision of building a totally independent company in the United States, one that designs and makes and markets its cars without much oversight from Tokyo, has not yet been fulfilled. But the American-made Accord became the first "foreign" car to take the title as the best-selling model in the United States, and Honda has begun importing some of its American-made cars to Japan.
        Mr. Honda spent his retirement administering the Honda Foundation, a private group that promotes new uses of technology. He lectured regularly on management. "The worst kind of president is a person who eats in fancy restaurants, smoking a fat cigar and thinking well of himself while employees work in a dirty factory with their hands dirty,"' he said. "If you're like a god, people will respect you, but they won't come close."
        Two years ago he received a long overdue acknowledgement from his American competitors. He was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame, taking a place next to Henry Ford, Alfred Sloan of General Motors and Karl Benz, the builder of the Mercedes-Benz. His last trip to the United States came earlier this year, when he visited Honda's new test track in Nevada and was driven in his company's first commercial sports car, the $70,000 NSX, in many ways the most advanced car Honda has ever built.
        "At the end of the day," Mr. Irimajiri said, "he looked around and said, 'I love it here.' And he wouldn't leave."
        Mr. Honda is survived by his wife, Sachi, two daughters and a son. Funeral services will be private, but Honda officials said the company would hold a memorial service at a later date.
      