
        Shahpur Bakhtiar, who was found stabbed to death in France yesterday, had caught the attention of the world for a brief 39 days as Prime Minister of Iran between the reigns of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
        Virtually unknown outside Iran before January 1979, he made headlines that month by reluctantly accepting a call by the ailing Shah to lead the country's faltering Government. At that moment, Mr. Bakhtiar stood in stark contrast to the imperious ruler he had steadfastly opposed and the Shiite militants who were clamoring in the streets for the Shah's ouster and death.
        Ayatollah Khomeini returned from exile that February, an Islamic revolution swept the country, and Mr. Bakhtiar was driven away by the Ayatollah's fundamentalist followers.
        As the Shah realized in late 1978 that his rule was crumbling, only Mr. Bakhtiar seemed capable of averting a disastrous civil war between the Shah's armed forces and the Islamic revolutionaries.  Radical Economic Steps
        The Shah agreed to take an open-ended "vacation" abroad -- a genteel form of abdication -- and Mr. Bakhtiar took over as Prime Minister on Jan. 4, 1979. But his belated efforts were doomed from the start by the militants who, taking strength from street crowds, immobilized his Government.
        In his few weeks as Prime Minister, Mr. Bakhtiar sought radical steps to revive the paralyzed economy. He campaigned against the corruption that had provoked much of the antagonism against the Government.
        But on Feb. 1, Ayatollah Khomeini made his triumphant return to Iran from France amid calls for a "holy war," and on Feb. 11, his Islamic forces ousted Mr. Bakhtiar.  Received Asylum in France
        He went into hiding, and turned up in July in France.
        He formed a National Iranian Resistance Movement with headquarters in Paris and branches in other countries, along with its own newspapers and two clandestine radio stations beaming his messages into Iran.
        Over the years, as Mr. Bakhtiar's return to Teheran seemed ever more remote, his goals continually shifted, with his political allies ranging from leftists to constitutional monarchists. Flinty Nature, Strong Will
        A man of urbanity and elegance steeped in French language and culture, he spoke of Iran with deep feeling. Friends said he had a flinty nature and a strong will.
        An agnostic, he believed in separation of church and state and would willingly have accepted abolition of the 2,500-year-old Persian system of monarchy if "a freely elected National Assembly" had voted for it.
        A member of the Bakhtiari clan, the largest in Iran, Mr. Bakhtiar was born in Teheran in 1916, although the precise date is uncertain. He attended a secondary school in Beirut and studied political science and law at the Sorbonne in Paris.
        He went to Spain during the Civil War and fought with the Loyalists against Franco's forces. Later he helped the French resistance in its fight against the Nazi occupation.  Refused Post Offered by Shah
        He returned to Iran in the late 1940's, the unsettled years when the National Front, a grouping of fiercely nationalist parties, was being formed by Mohammed Mossadegh. A Social Democrat in Western terms, Mr. Bakhtiar became a leader of the Iran Party, one of the main components of the front.
        He served in Mr. Mossadegh's National Front Government of 1951-53, which nationalized the oil industry and almost succeeded in driving the Shah from the throne. Later he opened a law practice, specializing in international law.
        While the Shah was married to Soraya Esfandiari, a cousin of Mr. Bakhtiar, he tried to persuade him to take a high post. Mr. Bakhtiar refused and was jailed several times for his opposition to the Shah's autocratic rule.
        Mr. Bakhtiar, who was 75 years old, had divorced many years ago and was living in Suresnes, a suburb west of Paris. His body and that of his secretary were discovered early yesterday inside his house, which was normally guarded closely.
        His survivors include two sons and two daughters.
      