
        Socrates K. Butsikares, who worked for four decades in a variety of editing assignments at The New York Times, died yesterday at Staten Island University Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Butsikares, who retired from The Times in 1987, had been news production editor in New York and managing editor of The Times's International Edition in Paris.
        He died of a heart attack, said his son, Dean Vallas. Mr. Vallas said his father, who had a history of heart trouble, collapsed on Tuesday after playing golf.
        Mr. Butsikares joined The Times in 1946. During World War II, he had been a lieutenant in the Army Air Force and served as a navigator. He started working for The Times even before his graduation from New York University, initially as a copy boy at night. When he received his undergraduate degree in 1950, he was promoted to copy editor.  Single-Minded Gusto
        In the years that followed, he worked as an editor on the city, national and foreign desks before moving to the International Edition in 1960 as news editor. Three years later, he was named its managing editor by Sydney Gruson, who was then editor of the International Edition. Mr. Gruson said that after working with Mr. Butsikares for a short time, he had become impressed with Mr. Butsikares's single-minded way of doing things: "With great gusto and total commitment."
        Mr. Butsikares -- known to co-workers as Chick -- won a succession of Times publisher's awards for the quality of his editing under deadline pressure, most notably the stories on the Apollo program's moon-landing flights.
        After the Paris edition of The Times was merged into The International Herald Tribune in 1967, Mr. Butsikares returned to New York and became an assistant national news editor of The Times. In 1972 he became news production editor, and in 1977 deputy news editor. A Patriarchal Title
        Socrates Konstantin Butsikares was born on May 25, 1923, in Newark, the son of Konstantin and Phaedra Butsikares. The elder Butsikares was a restaurateur. Like his father, Chick Butsikares played an active role in the Greek Orthodox Church and was an archon in the Order of St. Andrew, a lay leadership body within the church. The patriarchal title of archon is conferred by the archbishop upon those who have performed outstanding service to Greek Orthodoxy.
        Mr. Butsikares was also a member of the Overseas Press Club and of the Society of Silurians, an organization of veteran journalists.
        In addition to his son, Dean, his survivors include his wife, Elaine, and his daughter, Anastasia Tompkins, all of Manhattan.
        The funeral will be on Saturday at 11 A.M. at the Greek Orthodox Cathedral, at 319 East 74th Street.
      