
        Anthony A. Bliss, a patrician New York lawyer who stood at the center of the city's opera and dance worlds for four decades, died on Saturday on Prince Edward Island, Canada, He was 78 years old and lived in Oyster Bay, L.I.
        He died of a brain hemorrhage and pneumonia, said David Reuben, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Opera.
        Mr. Bliss served as the executive director of the Metropolitan Opera for 11 years, giving up his law practice in 1974 to head what at that time was a financially troubled organization. He was neither a musician nor a music
        professional, but his fiscal reforms helped to prepare the Met for the present hazards of the arts marketplace.
        In the early 1980's, he was part of a triumvirate that included James Levine as music director and chief conductor, and John Dexter as director of production. "I never institute artistic decisions," Mr. Bliss said at the time, "but I know what I can afford."
        He also had a long relationship with the Joffrey Ballet, most recently as a co-chairman. His third wife, whom he married in 1967, was Sally Brayley Bliss, a dancer from Canada who headed the organization's second company, Joffrey II, and who was more recently a member of the Joffrey board. In May 1990, Mr. Bliss resigned during a tumultuous power struggle for control of the company; he played down his resignation, citing age and diminished powers as the reasons for it.
        His father, Cornelius N. Bliss, was a member, and later chairman, of the Met's board from 1932 until his death in 1949. Mr. Bliss himself had served as a board member since the 1950's, surviving a mid-1960's feud with Sir Rudolf Bing, the head of the Met who said he feared that Mr. Bliss had designs on his job.
        As executive director, Mr. Bliss established the Met's media and marketing
        departments, upgraded the technical staff and stage equipment and modernized the company's large-scale fund-raising machine. From his beginnings at the Met, Mr.  Bliss had been a member of its electronics committee, and in 1984 he presided over the release of its first two video disks, "Lucia di Lammermoor" and "Don Carlo." He is probably best remembered for presiding over the Met's $100 million endowment drive in the early 1980's. Turning a Company Around
        Indeed, his success in turning the Met into a nationwide presence persuaded some to call it the General Motors of opera. Mr. Bliss's administration was, in any case, a world away from the Met's old history of chronic losses, solved annually, Mr. Bliss said, by "asking Mr. Rockefeller out to lunch." Not everyone admired Mr. Bliss's fiscal ministrations at the Met. There were complaints that the business end of the house tended to engulf the artistic cadre, which, as one critic said, made the Met "top heavy with marketers." But when he resigned at the end of the 1984-85 season at the age of 72 he expressed pride over the company's higher and more consistent quality of performance.
        Tall, reticent to the point of coolness, known for his tight half-smile, Mr.
        Bliss was considered an honorable executive to his employees but also a symbol of class distinction backstage. During the Met's 1980 strike, Mr. Bliss was a hard-nosed combatant against the unions. When Samuel Ramey, the American bass, made his Met debut in 1984, he met Mr. Bliss only by accident after a performance. "In Europe," the performer mused at the time, "the intendant always stopped in on the first day of rehearsals."
        Yet Mr. Bliss's wife, Sally, described him at the time as "the most unsophisticated man I ever met."
        "I pick out his clothes," she said. "He has no gourmet instincts: I could feed him Alpo."
        Later Mr. Bliss celebrated her remarks by keeping a can of dog food on his desk. His previous marriages had been to Barbara Field of the Chicago retailing family and to the actress Jo Ann Sayers. A Family of Bankers
        Anthony Addison Bliss was born into a New York banking family in 1913. His grandfather was Secretary of the Treasury under President William McKinley; his father was an associate of J. P. Morgan. He was a graduate of the Groton School,
        Harvard University and the University of Virginia Law School. As partner and later as counsel, he was a longtime member of the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. He served in the Pacific Theater during World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant commander in the United States Naval Reserve.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Bliss to the original National Council for the Arts. He was a lifelong opera lover and said he retained vivid memories of the vast stretches of empty seats he witnessed as a young man at the old Met on West 39th Street during the Depression.
        Mr. Bliss is survived by six children from his three marriages: Barbara Last of New York City; Anthony A. Bliss of Locust Valley, L.I.; John Wheeler Bliss of Princeton, N.J., and Eileen Andahazy-Chevins, Timothy Newton Bliss and Mark Brayley Bliss, all of Oyster Bay. He is also survived by a sister, Eliza Cobb of New York City, and a brother, Cornelius N. Bliss of Kennett Square, Pa. There are eight surviving grandchildren.
        No funeral is planned, but a memorial service is to be in New York City in October.
      