
        Thomas F. Anderson, a biophysical chemist and geneticist who developed techniques for using electron microscopes, died Sunday at Jeanes Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and lived in Fox Chase, Pa.
        He died after a series of strokes, his wife, Wilma, said.
        Dr. Anderson was one of the first researchers to use the electron microscope to study viruses. His studies expanded the knowledge of how viruses infect cells, reproduce and alter the cells they infect, said Dr. Robert P. Perry, a colleague at the Fox Chase Cancer Center, where Dr. Anderson was a senior member emeritus.
        The electron microscope, invented in the 1930's, uses electrically charged subatomic particles in place of visible light and gives a hundred times more detail than the best optical microscopes. Electron microscopes enable researchers to see disease-fighting organisms in the blood, or antibodies, attack a disease-producing virus. The 'Critical Point' Method
        A significant innovation by Dr. Anderson was the "critical point" method of drying specimens for the electron microscope. Because some specimens that had been immersed in liquid changed shape when they dried, Dr. Anderson developed a method of adjusting pressures and temperatures to eliminate the boundary between liquid and gaseous phases. This enabled him to determine how certain bacteria enter their host cells.
        Dr. Anderson taught at the University of Pennsylvania from 1942 to 1977, when he became director of the Fox Chase Cancer Center's postdoctoral training program for basic research. He retired in 1983.
        Dr. Anderson served as president of the International Federation of Electron Microscope Societies from 1959 to 1963, and earlier as president of the Electron Microscope Society of America, which gave him a distinguished service award in 1978.
        He was also president of the Biophysical Society and was chairman of the United States National Committee of the International Union for Pure and Applied Biophysics.
        Besides his wife he is survived by a daughter, Jessie Dale Anderson, of Denver; a son, Thomas F. Anderson Jr., of Andover, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      