
        Henry (Buster) Smith, an alto saxophonist and band leader who played an important part in the musical upbringing of Charlie Parker, died on Saturday in Dallas. He was 86 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Smith, whose other nickname was Prof, was among the most influential musicians to come out of the Southwest. As an arranger, band leader and saxophonist, he was associated with virtually every important big orchestra to come from Dallas, Oklahoma City or Kansas City, Mo. And in his graceful and flowing saxophone improvisations it is easy to hear a young Charlie Parker, whom Mr. Smith hired for one band.
        Mr. Smith, who was born in Alfdorf, Tex., began his professional career in Dallas during the mid-1920's, joining Walter Page's Blue Devils in 1925. The band, one of the more important territory bands of the period, from which the first famous Count Basie Band recruited many of its members, was based in Oklahoma City, but traveled through the Southwest. Mr. Smith eventually took over the leadership of the band, and while he was there it included such musicians as Lester Young, Jimmy Rushing, Eddie Durham, Oran (Hot Lips) Page and Count Basie.  Collaborating on a Band
        Mr. Smith moved to Kansas City in 1933 and joined Bennie Moten's orchestra, the single most important Southwestern big band before the formation of Count Basie's orchestra. After Mr. Moten died in 1935, Mr. Smith and Mr. Basie collaborated on a band based at the Reno Club in Kansas City. The band played for floor shows and eventually became the Count Basie Orchestra. When the band left for New York City, Mr. Smith decided to stay behind.
        He later worked with the bands of Andy Kirk and Nat Towles and ran his own orchestra, which included Jay McShann and a 17-year-old saxophonist named Charlie Parker.
        Mr. Smith moved to New York in 1938, and wrote arrangements for Count Basie, Benny Carter and Snub Mosley, and worked as a saxophonist for Don Redman.
        In 1942, Mr. Smith moved back to Dallas, where he led a dance band until 1980.
      