
        Douglas Kiker, an NBC News correspondent for 25 years, died yesterday at his summer home in Chatham, Mass. He was 61 years old and lived in Washington.
        He apparently died of a heart attack, the network said.
        Through his career at NBC, most recently as national-affairs correspondent, Mr. Kiker covered some of the most important issues of his era, including the war in Vietnam, the civil-rights movement, the Watergate scandal and many political conventions. For his coverage of the Black September revolution in Jordan in 1970, he won a Peabody Award, Columbia University's prize for broadcast journalists.
        Jim Wooten, a friend and a reporter for ABC News, said it was Mr. Kiker's passion for good writing that distinguished him from other broadcast journalists. Wry and Sardonic
        "He took a great pride in his scripts," he said. Recalling Mr. Kiker's distinctive reports, delivered in a southern twang, Mr. Wooten said, "He was wry, sometimes sardonic."
        Before his career in television, Mr. Kiker was the White House correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune from 1963 to 1966. Mr. Kiker confounded presidents and other officials with probing questions that often led to front-page articles. In 1963, he was one of the few reporters riding in the motorcade when President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas.
        Mr. Kiker was born in Griffin, Ga., and received a bachelor's degree from Presbyterian College in Clinton, S.C. He was a naval officer during the Korean War, then went to work for The Atlanta Journal, eventually becoming its Washington correspondent. He served 15 months as director of information for the Peace Corps before going to work for The Herald Tribune.
        Although a journalist for his entire career, Mr. Kiker indulged a passion for fiction writing in his spare time. He wrote two novels in the 1950's, and later began a series of murder mysteries set on Cape Cod, with a journalist as the protagonist. The first, "Murder on Clam Pond," was published in 1986. Two others followed, and Mr. Kiker was close to finishing a fourth at his death, Mr. Wooten said.
        Mr. Kiker also contributed political articles to several magazines through the years, including The Atlantic, Harper's and New York. A 1973 article for Washingtonian magazine on a lighter subject, the 10 sexiest women in Washington, soon enhanced Mr. Kiker's personal life. Less than a year later, he married one of the women on the list, Diana Knight.
        In addition to his wife, of Washington, he is survived by a daughter, Ann, of Newport, R.I.; and four sons, James, of Newport, and Craig, Douglas and Patrick, of Washington.
        Funeral services will be held on Saturday in Chatham. A memorial service will be held in Washington in September.
      