
        Chauncey Guy Suits, a former director of research for the General Electric Company who helped develop the process for creating synthetic diamonds and contributed to understanding electric arc behavior, died Wednesday at his home in Pilot Knob, N.Y. He was 86 years old.
        He died of cancer, said a spokesman for the family and the company, Peter Van Avery.
        Dr. Suits directed General Electric's research and was a vice president from 1945 to 1965; he had joined the corporation in 1930. His electric arc measurements and experiments undergirded a variety of applications. Some of
        these were high voltage switching gear, electric welding and gaseous discharge lighting devices.
        He held 77 United States patents on such things as railway block signal improvements, circuits for sequence-flashing electric signs, radio circuits, beacons, submarine signals, theater light dimmers and photo-electric relays.
        In 1946, Dr. Suits predicted that the radionic tube employed to jam enemy radar in World War II would be used by "the housewife of the future." She would, he told a national electronics conference, buy frozen meals at the grocer, and then, he said, "With a quick heating high frequency unit in her kitchen, food preparation from a pre-cooked frozen meal will become a simple matter." Leader in Research
        In 1959, W. E. Glenn, a scientist working under Dr. Suits's supervision in the G. E. Research Laboratory, in Schenectady, N.Y., devised a process that helped develop videotape.
        John F. Welch Jr., chairman of General Electric, said yesterday, "Guy Suits ranked high among the handful of leaders who helped guide U.S. industrial research and development to world prominence at the end of World War II."
        In 1962, Dr. Suits announced a new process that he said would facilitate the manufacture of synthetic diamonds. The process, he said, used a large hydraulic press that creates pressures up to three million pounds per square inch. Carbon so compressed can be simultaneously heated to 9,000 degrees Fahrenheit, creating the synthetic diamonds. This process omitted the metal catalyst agent previously used.
        Dr. Suits was enthusiastic about the promise of nuclear energy. After the war and a few months before the War Department, now the Department of Defense, designated General Electric to operate the Hanford, Wash., plutonium plant, Dr.  Suits said: "We have used up our accumulated surplus of basic knowledge of the nucleus. The dividend was the atomic bomb. We must, without further delay, restore this surplus in preparation for the important peacetime job for the nucleus-power production."
        After he retired from General Elecric, Dr. Suits surved as a consultant on industrial research management.
        He is survived by his wife, Laura Emma Struckmeyer Suits of Pilot Knob; two sons, David G. of Lexington, Ohio, and James C. of Los Gatos, Calif.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      