
        Jean Tinguely, a Swiss-born sculptor who was best known for building whimsical self-destructing contraptions out of scrap parts, died Friday at a hospital in Bern, Switzerland, He was 66 years old.
        A hospital spokesman in Bern told The Associated Press that Mr. Tinguely died of complications from a stroke suffered Aug. 18.
        Mr. Tinguely was an avatar of the post-World War II Paris art scene and part of a generation that rejected a purely esthetic notion of art and used materials that were culled from and represented the urban or industrial world.
        "He's not really well-known here, but he is a superstar in Europe," said the artist Larry Rivers, who lives in Southhampton, L.I., and was a close friend and sometimes collaborator with Mr. Tinguely. "He's on the same level as Andy Warhol."
        Mr. Tinguely, who also painted, drew and designed stage sets, was best known for what some critics called kinetic sculptures, large projects that united radios, wheels, motors, and welded girders into statements that sometimes mocked consumer society and on occasion destroyed themselves.
        He regarded his works as "cynical social commentary, in a poetic way." He also once said he could see mysticism in a motor and beauty in a oil refinery.
        "He was very unique," Mr. Rivers said. "His works were enormous and made a lot of noise. They were hard to ignore."
        Mr. Tinguely was born May 22, 1925 in Fribourg, Switzerland. He designed store window displays as an apprentice but only irregularly attended art school. His rise to prominence in the Paris art world began in the late 1950's and led to events and showings in Europe, Japan, the United States and Israel. In addition, there were exhibits at several world's fairs.
        His works included machines like the 1960 "Homage to New York," which exploded in the garden of the Museum of Modern Art. Some of his machines also had moving parts that smashed beer bottles or hammered china plates to bits. 'Playing Is Art'
        He summed up his artistic philosophy in a 1959 essay. "Playing is art," he said. "So I am playing."
        Mr. Tinguely was sometimes regarded as a descendant of the Dada movement of the 1920's, which was dedicated to the creation of nonsense in the nihilist days after World War I.
        Elizabeth Baker, the editor of the magazine Art in America, said Mr. Tinguely was a "tremendously important figure in the early 1960's" as a member of the Nouveaux Realistes, the French counterpart to Pop Art in the United States.
        She said this movement made "the break from the French version of abstract expressionism to a language that was interested in mass culture, the machine and in 20th-Century issues, as opposed to the grand tradition of painting."
        "Some of his early works were motorized, and that was a very radical position to take," she added. "And it preceded Warhol's saying, 'I want to be a machine."'
        One of Mr. Tinguely's last shows was in Moscow last year. He called the exhibit a warning against "the wonderful totalitarianism of our consumer society." The show's centerpiece, the 17-foot-high "Altar of Western Affluence and Totalitarian Commercialism," consisted of bicycles, flower pots, skateboards and pushcarts, moving to the strains of organ pipes. It also included a smiling toy bear that was struck with a club every 30 seconds.
        Not all of Mr. Tinguely's so-called "suicide machines" passed away as planned, however. His ambitious "Study No. 2 for an End of the World," a sculpture fashioned out of old washing machines, bathroom fixtures, electric motors, beer cans and toy wagons, blew up prematurely. "Study No. 1 for an End of the World" also exploded too soon, injuring two bystanders.
        "You can't expect the end of the world to end the way you want it to," Mr. Tinguely said.
        Mr. Tinguely is survived by his wife, the French artist Niki de Saint-Phalle; his first wife, Eva Aeppli, a daughter and a son.
        A funeral was scheduled for Wednesday in Switzerland.
      