
        James J. Fahey, a garbage-truck driver who became a best-selling author and gave his royalties to charity, died on Monday at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Bedford, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Marco Island, Fla.
        No cause of death was given.
        Mr. Fahey's 1963 book, "Pacific War Diary: 1942-45," consisted of memoirs he had written on loose sheets of paper during World War II, recounting his experiences as a seaman on a cruiser. Friends typed a copy of the notes, and the book was published by Houghton Mifflin at the suggestion of the historian Samuel Eliot Morison.
        "Personal narratives of wars by statesmen, generals and admirals are fairly numerous," Mr. Morison said, "but accounts by private soldiers and ordinary seamen are exceedingly rare. . . . The great merit of Mr. Fahey's book is that it gives the American bluejacket's point of view."
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Charles Poore said that there was "nothing literary" about it but that it was "one of the most astonishing memoirs of the year." Mr. Fahey received fan letters from luminaries including President John F. Kennedy. 'Garbage Man of the Year'
        Mr. Fahey joked that he would quit his job driving a sanitation truck in Waltham, Mass., only if he were named "Garbage Man of the Year." The title became his in a 1964 ceremony at City Hall in New York. "I guess I'm the only Garbage Man of the Year there's ever been," he remarked. But he said he would go back to his truck in Waltham. "It's an honorable profession, and I'm happy," he said.
        Would he write another book? No, he said, "I'm just a freak of the literary world, no writer."
        He donated earnings from the book to help a priest build Our Lady of Dolors Roman Catholic Church in the village of Mettupatti in southern India. With money donated by Waltham residents, he traveled there in 1967 to be an honored guest at the church's dedication.
        Mr, Fahey was born in Manhattan. His parents died when he was 3 years old, and he went to live with cousins in Waltham.
        He is survived by his wife, Adele; two brothers, John and Joseph, and four stepchildren.
      