
        Dr. Albert W. Grokoest, a retired doctor and a discerning art lover -- he once bought a painting for $5,000, hung it in his office and sold it years later for $2.4 million -- died on Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of prostate cancer, said a friend, Dr. Dorothy Estes.
        Dr. Grokoest was an internist and rheumatologist. He retired in 1989 as a senior attending physician with the department of medicine of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center.
        Over the years he was also a clinical professor of medicine at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons and was affiliated with Presbyterian Hospital.
        The doctor, who pronounced his name GRO-kest, said it was in 1959 that he bought the painting, an oil done in 1910 by the Austrian expressionist Egon Schiele.
        Schiele titled the painting, an intense image of an emaciated-looking man, "Portrait of the Painter Zakovsek." Its subject was a minor artist. It hung for 20 years in a rented East Side office that Dr. Grokoest used.
        Then the office was put up for sale, and the doctor said in a 1983 interview, "I need money to purchase it."
        It was late that year that the painting was auctioned off at Sotheby Parke Bernet. The doctor was on hand and stayed calm as higher and higher bids were made for the work.
        The winning, $2.4 million bid -- a record for a Schiele painting -- was made by Serge Sabarsky, a Vienna-born Madison Avenue dealer. He said he was willing to pay that much because he considered the work to be one of Schiele's most important, and because he thought very few such Schieles might ever come onto the international art market.
        Though the price was far higher than expected, Dr. Grokoest said that giving up the painting left him with a feeling of "enormous loss."
        Albert Walter Grokoest was born in Lincoln, N.H., studied at Hamilton College and earned his M.D. degree from Columbia in 1943. He was a co-author of "Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis" (1956).
        There are no immediate survivors.
      