
        Alfonso Garcia Robles, a former Mexican Foreign Minister who shared the 1982 Nobel Peace Prize for promoting disarmament, died late Monday in Mexico City. He was 80 years old.
        The Mexican Foreign Ministry said his death was the result of kidney failure.
        The United Nations Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, in a statement issued in New York, said he mourned the loss of a personal friend whom he called "a great man in all aspects of life."
        "The world has lost one of the great inspirers and fighters for the denuclearization, not just of Latin America, but of the entire planet," said Mr. Perez de Cuellar, a Peruvian. Stubborn in a Worthy Cause
        When Mr. Garcia Robles began promoting a treaty to ban nuclear weapons in Latin America in the mid-1960's, he was met by indifference or resistance. But the career Mexican diplomat, a stubborn man, eventually got his way. In 1967, 22 nations of the region signed the Treaty of Tlatelolco.
        His Nobel Prize -- which he shared with Alva Myrdal of Sweden -- was therefore both a reward for almost 20 years of work on disarmament, and a vindication of methodical and patient negotiation.
        "You must realize that foreign policy is an extremely delicate thing," Mr. Garcia Robles once told reporters impatient for a story, "and there is nothing worse than adoption of precipitous decisions." As the architect of the Treaty of Tlatelolco and co-author of the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, Mr. Garcia Robles played a major role in two important disarmament accords that proved able to survive the vagaries of superpower politics.
        Alfonso Garcia Robles was born March 29, 1911, in Zamora, the capital of Michoacan state. He first planned to become a priest, then switched to law, studying in Mexico City, at the University of Paris and at the International Law Academy in The Hague.
        While in Europe, he was assigned to the Mexican Embassy in Sweden for two years before returning to the Mexican Foreign Ministry in 1941. In 1945, he formed part of the Mexican delegation to the San Francisco Conference at which the United Nations was formed and the next year he joined the United Nations Secretariat.
        On his return to Mexico, he concentrated his attention on preparing Mexico's position at the 1958 and 1960 Law of the Sea conferences before taking over his country's embassy in Brazil from 1962 to 1964.
        Alarmed by the implications of the October 1962 Cuban missile crisis, Mr. Garcia Robles persuaded Mexico to adopt the cause of denuclearization of Latin America. He then began his personal crusade for the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which takes its name from the plaza beside the Mexican Foreign Ministry where it was signed on Feb. 14, 1967.
        The Foreign Ministry released a statement saying that Mr. Garcia Robles, who wrote 18 books on international affairs, was cremated late yesterday and that a special tribute would be held at the Foreign Ministry today.
      