
        Leigh Wade, a pioneer aviator who became an Air Force major general, died Saturday in the Belvoir Woods Health Care Center at Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Washington.
        General Wade entered the health care center last December. His wife said he had recently been suffering from pneumonia.
        In the pages of aviation history books, the youthful, rugged, jaunty Leigh Wade still flies. He is known especially for his role in 1924, as an Army first lieutenant, in "the ultimate long-range pre-rocket flight," as one aviation historian, Frank Donovan, put it in his 1962 work "The Early Eagles."
        Oliver Stewart, in his 1958 book "First Flights," called the mission "in truth the first flight around the world" -- although Lieutenant Wade made part of the trip by sea.  'Magellans for the Air'
        For years, Eric Hodgins and F. Alexander Magoun wrote in "Sky High: the Story of Aviation," published in 1935, "England, France, Italy and the United States had cherished the idea of an air journey around the world," and by the 1920's "it was a possibility that skill, courage and determination might well translate into fact." In achieving it, the authors wrote, a group of Army aviators including Lieutenant Wade became "Magellans for the air."
        The lieutenant, a native of Michigan, was one of eight Army aviators who took off from Seattle to fly around the globe in four two-winged, single-engine Douglas aircraft. Their 175-day mission included totals of up to 363 hours of flying time per plane sandwiched between stops in two dozen countries.
        With Lieutenant Wade at the controls of one aircraft, the Boston, the mission began at Seattle. It consisted of 73 segments of up to 830 miles apiece. The versatile planes could function as pontoon-mounted seaplanes or with landing wheels. Their itinerary took them, with many intermediate stops, up the Canadian and Alaskan coasts, on to Calcutta, to Brough in England, to Boston and then back to Seattle.
        An oil leak forced one plane down off Alaska, and its crew dropped out of the mission. During the remaining aviators' stopover in London, Lieutenant Wade, who was exhausted, fell asleep at a formal banquet and, the story goes, his British hosts were too kind to disturb him.  Down in the Atlantic
        On the flight from the Orkney Islands to Iceland, the Boston's oil pump gave out with Lieutenant Wade and a mechanic on board. They had to put down in the North Atlantic. A United States Navy cruiser came to their aid. They went on board, but the plane was wrecked in an attempt to take it on board, too.
        The lieutenant is said to have wept, but he and his crewman rode off on the cruiser and later rejoined the mission, from Nova Scotia, on board a replacement plane, the Boston II. The globe-girdling ended with welcomes in cities across the United States.
        The future general returned to civilian life later in the 1920's and was a test pilot and executive. He was back in uniform in World War II, during which he commanded an Army air base in Cuba. He retired from the Air Force in 1955.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Helen Moran, whom he married in 1941. She lives in Washington.
      