
        James H. Fogelson, a corporate lawyer based in Manhattan who was active in Jewish affairs, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        One of his partners, Martin Lipton, said he died of lung cancer.
        Mr. Fogelson was a senior partner in the firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. His practice involved mergers and acquisitions, securities law and corporate counseling. His clients included investment banks as well as corporations.
        Mr. Lipton, the senior partner in the Wachtell firm, said yesterday that Mr. Fogelson had been skilled at drafting legal documents "and very creative in the structuring of transactions."
        For years Mr. Fogelson had been active in fund raising within the legal community and in other ways on behalf of the American Jewish Committee and the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York. He won the Learned Hand Award of the American Jewish Committee in 1989 and is to be the posthumous recipient, in December, of the Proskauer Award of U.J.A.-Federation.
        Mr. Fogelson was born in Manhattan, graduated from the Horace Mann School and received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania in 1964. He graduated in 1967 from the New York University School of Law, where he was an editor of the law review and a Pomeroy Scholar. An Adjunct Professor
        He then went to work at the Wachtell firm and was promoted to partner there after three and a half years.
        He was also an adjunct professor at the New York University law school.
        Mr. Fogelson's numerous philanthropic activities included past service as chairman of the lawyers division of U.J.A.-Federation. Its communications manager, Jeff Prince, said yesterday that it is the largest local philanthropic organization in the world and provides financing for social services in New York, Israel and the Jewish communities in more than 30 countries.
        Mr. Fogelson is survived by his parents, David and Gertrude Fogelson of Manhattan. The elder Mr. Fogelson was a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Schwartz & Frohlich, which no longer exists.
        He is also survived by his wife of 24 years, the former Phylis Polakoff; a sister, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; and two sons, Robert and Matthew, both of Manhattan.
      