
        John C. Hilly, a former president of the Bush Terminal Company in Brooklyn and a leading figure in New York City's waterfront industry for more than two decades, died on Aug. 23 in Lantana, Fla. He was 77 years old.
        A definitive cause of death was not given but Mr. Hilly was thought to have had a stroke, said a son, Joseph Hilly.
        Mr. Hilly, who was born in New York City, graduated from St. Francis Xavier High School, Fordham College and Fordham Law School. His father, Arthur Hilly, was the corporation counsel under New York Mayor Jimmy Walker.
        John Hilly began his career as an assistant United States Attorney in New York's Southern District in the 1940's. Among his more publicized cases were charges brought against members of the German-American Bund during World War II.
        After nine years as a prosecutor, Mr. Hilly went into private business as the executive vice president of the Security Bureau, which was formed by steamship companies to fight corruption along the waterfront.
        During his three years in that position, he was credited with reducing thefts by using paid informers and aggressively encouraging criminal prosecutions.
        In 1953 Mr. Hilly joined the Bush company, then a major operator of shipping piers, railroad lines and warehouses at the Brooklyn seaport. In three years he rose to vice president and then president of the company, retaining that position until he left in 1970 to practice law in Florida.
        Mr. Hilly's expertise was called on by three New York Mayors, Robert F. Wagner, John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame, who appointed him to various committees on the city's port and shipping industry.
        He was chairman of the Commerce, Labor and Industry Corporation of Kings County, known as Click, a nonprofit agency that took over the operation of the old Brooklyn Navy Yard from the Federal Government.
        When he moved to Florida, Mr. Hilly worked as a labor arbitrator for the City of Delray Beach and Palm Beach County. He was still active as a lawyer at the time of his death.
        Mr. Hilly's first two wives died, and in 1973 he married Mae Kreshover Wohl. Besides his wife, survivors include a daughter, Anita Gross of New York City; three sons, Joseph Hilly of Arlington, Tex., James Wohl of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Sean Hilly of San Diego; 13 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      