
        Francis A. Turner, an educator who in the 1950's became the first black assistant superintendent in the New York City public school system, where he helped run the system's desegregation efforts, died on Tuesday. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Turner died of cardiac arrest at his summer home in Martha's Vineyard, said his nephew, Ernest Hill.
        Born April 19, 1896, in New York City, Mr. Turner worked in the city's schools for 46 years, first joining the system in October 1919 as a subsititute teacher. He was hired full time the following year, and for the next 20 years was a classroom teacher before becoming the system's supervisor of junior high school intercultural relations.
        In that post, which he held in the 1940's, he helped design programs that sought to soothe racial tensions in junior high schools, including dissuading attacks on black, Jewish and other minority students.
        In a 1944 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Turner said that racial discord in schools reflected intolerance among both black and white students, a problem that he blamed parents for.
        As a pioneer in student race relations, Mr. Turner also worked with gang members in the 1940's.
        In 1957, after having also worked in the school system's adult continuing education programs, Mr. Turner was named an assistant superintendent, becoming the first black to attain that rank.
        In that position, Mr. Turner was primarily responsible for overseeing the school district's central zoning unit. The unit, which no longer exists, was charged with desegregating the city's school system by changing school attendance lines. Although controversial, the plan was put into effect with only minimal problems.
        At the time of his retirement in 1966, Mr. Turner also was a member of the school system's Board of Examiners, which sets the standards for teacher hiring.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in education in 1919 from City College and a master's degree in education in 1939 from New York University.
        Besides his nephew, Ernest Hill, who lives in Manhattan, Mr. Turner is survived by a niece, Ardath C. Hill, and a sister-in-law, Ellen C. Turner, both of Manhattan. The family has scheduled a memorial service on Sept. 22 at St. Mark's United Methodist Church at 137 St. Nicholas Ave. in Manhattan.
      