
        Edwin Mattison McMillan, a pioneer in modern chemistry and physics who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1951 as a co-discoverer of plutonium and neptunium, died Saturday at his home in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 83 years old.
        He suffered a stroke several years ago and died of complications from diabetes, his family said.
        Dr. McMillan, who headed the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif., for 15 years until his retirement in 1973, helped create the elements by bombarding lighter elements with subatomic particles.
        Later he developed the concept that enabled a major expansion in the capacity and sophistication of particle accelerators. The 1963 Atoms for Peace Award was given jointly to Dr. McMillan and a Russian theorist who independently developed the same idea.  Given Medal of Science
        In World War II, Dr. McMillan worked on the development of radar, sonar and the atomic bomb. Last year he was awarded the nation's highest scientific honor, the National Medal of Science.
        "His important and versatile scientific contributions, spanning physics, chemistry and engineering, and his great human qualities, form an important chapter in the history of science," said Glenn T. Seaborg, a friend and the colleague who shared the Nobel prize.
        Born in Redondo Beach, Calif., as the only son of a physician, Dr. McMillan grew up in Pasadena. As a youngster, he tinkered with gadgets and collected rocks and minerals, which became a lifelong hobby.
        He received his bachelor's and master's degrees in physics at the California Institute of Technology and his doctorate at Princeton University.  Interest in Cyclotron
        Intrigued by the invention of the cyclotron by Professor Ernest O. Lawrence at Berkeley, Dr. McMillan went there for two years of research. He stayed to join the laboratory staff and university faculty.
        Family as well as professional ties developed. Dr. McMillan's wife was the former Elsie W. Blumer, and her sister, Mary Kimberly, married Dr. Lawrence. Upon Dr. Lawrence's death, Dr. McMillan succeeded him as the laboratory's director.
        Coincidentally, Dr. Lawrence's brother, Dr. John H. Lawrence, a pioneer in nuclear medicine at Berkeley, died the same day as Dr. McMillan.
        From the beginning, discoveries sprang from Dr. McMillan's research. In an early experiment, he made the first substantial verification of the theory that gamma rays striking a nucleus would produce a pair of electrons, one positive and the other negative.  Research Interrupted
        In 1934, Dr. McMillan and M. Stanley Livingston discovered oxygen 15. In 1940, Dr. McMillan and Samuel Ruben discovered beryllium 10. In 1939-40, while studying uranium fission, Dr. McMillan and P. H. Abelson discovered element 93, neptunium, the first substance beyond the 92 naturally occurring elements.
        Dr. McMillan was convinced that still another element, plutonoium, was lurking, but war duties interrupted his research. A team headed by Dr. Seaborg completed the project, leading to their joint Nobel prize.
        Dr. McMillan also probably discovered carbon 14. But when someone accidentally broke his container of the substance before it was officially identified, he was too busy with other experiments to reconstitute it. Other scientists did so and got the credit, although they readily acknowledged his earlier work. Carbon 14 is used to date fossils and archeological finds.
        In World War II, Dr. McMillan directed the field tests of radar at the Massachussetts Institute of Technology, researched sonar at the Navy Radio and Sound Laboratory in San Diego, and was an assistant to Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer at Los Alamos in constructing the bomb that was dropped on Hiroshima.
        After the war, Dr. McMillan returned to research on accelerators. He focused on the crucial problem that when particles are accelerated numerous times at very high energy, they fall out of step with the accelerating pulses and thus slow down the process. In 1945, he had a flash of insight on how to control conditions in the accelerator to keep the particles regulated.
        Synchrotron was the name Dr. McMillan gave to the new device based on his theory, called phase stability, and it became the standard instrument of high-energy physics research.  Recognition Shared
        Later he learned that Vladimir I. Veksler, a Soviet scientist, had developed a similar idea and published two short papers in Russian journals a year earlier. They shared recognition for their parallel work.
        As much as Dr. McMillan delved into nature's internal secrets, he also enjoyed its external beauties. He often spent vacations exploring the Borrego desert in Southern California, picking up specimens for his rock garden, or swimming at ocean beaches and collecting shells. He also enjoyed gardening and was especially fond of orchids. As a younger man, he climbed mountains, including Mount Whitney and the Matterhorn.
        Colleagues described Dr. McMillan as modest and laconic but also witty. He enjoyed humorists like Thurber and the Marx brothers. He was a pipe smoker and for years drove a 1957 Thunderbird.
        Dr. McMillan is survived by his wife, the daughter of Dr. George Blumer, the late dean of the Yale University School of Medicine, and by three children, Anne Chaikin of Bellingham, Wash., David McMillan of Anacortes, Wash., and Steven McMillan of El Cerrito, and three grandchildren.
      