
        Dr. Robert J. Stoller, a leading psychoanalytic theorist on sex-identity problems and perversions, and a psychiatry professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, died Friday night in a traffic accident outside his home in Los Angeles. He was 66.
        Dr. Stoller was killed as he pulled out of his driveway and his car was struck by another car in Pacific Palisades, Calif., said Dr. Richard Green, a colleague in the psychiatry department at U.C.L.A.'s medical school. He died instantly from injuries in the crash.
        Best-known for his writings on perversions, sexual excitement and such sex-identity problems as transsexuality, Dr. Stoller's theories "shook some fundamental beliefs of the psychoanalytic establishment," said Dr. Ethel Person, a psychiatrist at Columbia University Medical School.
        She cited Dr. Stoller's theory that much sexual behavior, like seductive flirting, conceals hostility, and that sexual perversions are actually a form of emotional revenge for childhood wounds. He theorized that pornography, ritualized sexual acts and sexual fantasies are vehicles that allow childhood traumas, like abandonment by a parent, to be transformed symbolically into sexual triumphs. A Break With Freud
        Dr. Stoller's theory that sexual fantisies are a way to heal childhood wounds marked a break with Freud's notions of perversion, which saw aberrant sexuality as a sign of a person's having "fixated" at an early stage of emotional development.
        Dr. Stoller was also a pioneer in questioning the distinction between what is perverse and what is normal in sexual behavior. "He saw there was no firm line between what was sick and what was healthy except as it infringed other's rights," Dr. Person said. "He was a courageous, independent thinker."
        Because Dr. Stoller offered his new views in the 1970's, long before what has become a current vogue in rethinking psychoanalytic theories of sex identity and sexual perversion, "everyone measures themselves against his ideas," said Dr. Gerald I. Fogel, a psychiatrist at the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research and a co-editor of a recent book on perversions. Book Awaiting Publication
        Dr. Stoller set forth his theories in a series of influential books, including "Sex and Gender: On the Development of Masculinity and Femininity," published in 1968; "Perversion: The Erotic Form of Hatred," published in 1975; "Sexual Excitement: Dynamics of Erotic Life," published in 1979, and "Presentations of Gender" published in 1985.
        Earlier this year Dr. Stoller published "Pain and Passion: An Ethnography of Consensual Sadomasochism." In November Yale University Press will publish "Porn: Myths for the 21st Century."
        Dr. Stoller received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a medical degree in 1948 from the University of California at San Francisco. He joined the department of psychiatry at U.C.L.A. in 1954.
        Dr. Stoller is survived by his wife, Sybil A. White, who was in the car with him at the time of the accident, but suffered only minor injuries, and by four sons, Laurence, of Bend, Ore.; Richard, of Minneapolis; Jonathan, of Aspen, Colo., and Roger, of Palo Alto, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 13, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Dr. Robert J. Stoller, a psychoanalyst, misstated the title of his book published this year. It is "Pain and Passion: A Psychoanalyst Explores the World of S & M."
      