
        Felipe Rojas-Lombardi, the Peruvian-born chef who helped bring a Spanish and Caribbean influence into America's haute cuisine repertory, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure after a two-year bout with degenerative osteoporosis, his business partner, Tim Johnson, said.
        Mr. Rojas-Lombardi was born in Lima, Peru, and served his early apprenticeships there. He also attended law school in Lima. Author of Cookbooks
        In 1967, he moved to New York City and worked as the assistant to James Beard in his Greenwich Village cooking school. He was the founding chef of Dean & Deluca gourmet food store and was named America's Bicentennial chef in 1976, the same year he became an American citizen.
        The next year, he began consulting for the Ballroom, the restaurant and caberet now situated in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. He became executive chef and owner of the Ballroom in 1982. The restaurant was given a one-star rating by The New York Times's restaurant critic Bryan Miller, who described it as exuding a "generous and spirit and buoyant dining style."
        Tapas, the small appetizers served with sherry in Spain, were synonomous with the festive, open-hearted place. Mr. Rojas-Lombardi is credited with bringing the dining concept to America. After he was featured on a PBS series on "New York's Master Chefs," his recipes with their distinct lusty tapas were imitated both by chefs nationwide and large food manufacturers. He was a consultant to both the Goya Company and the Interational Olive Oil Council.
        In addition to teaching and lecturing, Mr. Rojas-Lombardi wrote two cookbooks. "Soup, Beautiful Soup"(Random House, 1985) was heralded by Craig Claiborne as the work of "a genius with inspiration." His second book, "South American Kitchen," will be published by HarperCollins in October.
        He is survived by his mother, Judith Lombardi-Rojas, and two sisters, Ana and Charo, and three brothers, Alberto, Manolo and Marcelo, all of Lima.
      