
        John R. Alden, a historian who was an authority on the American Revolution, died Aug. 14 at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. He was 83 years old and had moved to Clearwater after retiring from the faculty of Duke University in 1976.
        Professor Alden's death was reported yesterday by a friend, Prof. Ira D. Gruber of the history department at Rice University, who said Professor Alden had emphysema.
        "Professor Alden had expressed a wish that there not be publicity attending his death," Professor Gruber said, "and it therefore took time for word of it to spread" among his fellow historians.
        Professor Alden, who before his retirement was the James B. Duke Professor of History at Duke, was the author of 11 books. Reviewing one of them, "A History of the American Revolution," published in 1969, the New York Times critic, Charles Poore,wrote: "I know of no other single volume that revitalizes the era with such balance and candor. Even the cockiness that used to invigorate whacks at King George III is replaced with an urbane understanding of that rather Germanic monarch's hangups."
        Professor Alden was known for his histories of the South in the Revolutionary era as well as for his biographical work and other studies of the Revolution.
        Reviewing his 1957 book, "The South in the Revolution, 1763-1789," in the Times Book Review, Carl Bridenbaugh wrote that Professor Alden, who hailed from Michigan, "is not a Southerner, yet his understanding of the burgeoning civilization of the section is at once comprehensive and sympathetic."
        John Richard Alden was born Jan. 23, 1908, in Grand Rapids, Mich., the son of Herman Alden and the former Ida Jonkmann. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan in 1929 and went on to earn an M.A. and a doctorate there. After teaching at what was then called Michigan State Normal College, and subsequently at Bowling Green State University in Ohio and the University of Nebraska, he joined the Duke faculty in 1955.
        His other books include "John Stuart and the Southern Colonial Frontier" (1944), "General Gage in America" (1948) and "General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot?" (1951). A volume of essays that was compiled in his honor, "The Revolutionary War in the South," was published in 1979.
        Professor Alden was awarded the Beveridge Prize of the American Historical Association in 1945 and a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1955.
        He was married in 1934 to Pearl B. Wells, who died in 1979, and in 1980 to Kathleen C. Smith, who died in 1990. He is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Anne Alden Reed, a certified public accountant in of Charlotte, N.C., and by a granddaughter.
      