
        T. S. Matthews, a former editor of Time magazine, died on Friday at his home in Cavendish, England. He was 89 years old.
        He was credited with bringing depth and refinement to the national news weekly in a 25-year career before leaving to write books about his privileged youth, journalism's foibles and his literary hero, T. S. Eliot, among other topics.
        His family said he was diagnosed as having lung cancer six weeks earlier.
        The son of an Episcopal Bishop and a Procter & Gamble heiress, Thomas Stanley Matthewsleft Cincinnati, where he was born, for St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H. He earned bachelor's degrees from Princeton in 1922 and New College at Oxford University in 1925.
        After Oxford he took a job at The New Republic in New York City. There Mr. Matthews was befriended by Edmund Wilson, the literary critic, who encouraged him to write for the magazine. In 1928 he became an assitant editor and the next year an associate editor.
        Mr. Matthews went to Time magazine in 1929, six years after its founding, and became books editor, assistant managing editor, executive editor, managing editor and, from 1949 to 1953, editor, a post he took over from Henry R. Luce, Time's creator.
        At Time, the lean, athletic editor, whose clipped, quiet speech was filled with obscure literary references, rid the magazine of its double-barreled adjectives, puns and backward sentences.
        Thomas Griffith, a former senior editor at Time, said that Mr. Matthews had once ordered that there would be no more adjectives preceding names -- 'hen-shaped Fiorello La Guardia' was a Time favorite -- unless writers could improve upon the British writer Thomas Carlyle's "sea-green, incorruptible" Robespierre.
        "On the bottom of your story, he would write in a tiny, finicky hand: 'This bores the hell out of me,' which could be quite wounding," Mr. Griffith recalled. "But a 'not bad' from him meant more than great praise from someone else."
        Mr. Matthews left Time in 1953 for a freelance career in England, reviewing books for The New York Times and writing several of his own. His books include an autobiography, "Name and Address," Simon & Schuster (1960); "O My America," Simon & Schuster (1962); "Great Tom: Notes Towards a Definition of T. S. Eliot," Harper & Row (1973) and "Angels Unawares: Twentieth Century Portraits," Ticknor & Fields (1985).
        He is survived by his wife, Pamela Firth Peniakoff; four sons, Thomas S. Jr., of Cavendish, John P. C. of Princeton, N.J., Paul C., of Lambertville, N.J., and W. Alexander P. of Goveton, England; two sisters, Margaret Flinsch of White Plains and Dorothea Dooling of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and two great-granchildren.
      