
        William F. Polito, an interior designer, graphic design consultant and artist, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 55 years old.
        He died of AIDS, said a friend, Ron Smith.
        Mr. Polito, whose business was known as Bill Polito Design Consultant, was born in Brooklyn and earned a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in interior design at Syracuse University.
        Working in 1959 as a product designer for the industrial designer Raymond Loewy, Mr. Polito designed department stores, banks and restaurants in Dhaka in Bangladesh, Manila and Kuwait. While with the Loewy firm, Mr. Polito also worked on department store interiors for Macy's, Burdine's and Bloomingdale's. And he worked on the interior of President John F. Kennedy's airplane, Air Force One.
        In 1969, Mr. Polito established his own firm for graphic and interior design. Over the years, he maintained a long-standing relationship with Liz Claiborne Inc., one of the largest women's wear manufacturers in the country. He designed many of the company's showrooms and offices as well as its corporate trademark and stationery. For Ms. Claiborne, he designed furniture and interiors for her New York apartment and her Saltaire, L.I., beach houses. The trademark for Bonjour jeans as well as its print advertisements were also his work.
        Mr. Polito's style was minimal and understated. His sparse, often monochromatic interiors usually included built-in furniture of his own design, pieces that were elegantly executed and meant to fit unobtrusively into the overall picture.
        In 1974, Mr. Polito completed the design of the David Daines Hair Salon at 833 Madison Avenue between 69th and 70th Streets in Manhattan. The peach-hued interior with its terrazzo floors, circular mirrors eight feet in diameter and marble facade still looks up-to-date.
        Around 1970, Mr. Polito was commissioned by the Ivey family of Charlotte, N.C., to create one of the largest murals in the United States. The geometric work in acrylic paint stretched to a height of three stories across the width of a blocklong office building in Charlotte.
        Mr. Polito continued to work after he learned he had AIDS in 1989. He became blind in January 1990 after contracting meningitis. Mr. Polito then joined a mobility training course at the Lighthouse for the Blind and learned to use a dictating machine that converted his voice to print. He also became active in many New York City-based agencies that help people to care for patients with AIDS who are visually impaired.
        Mr. Polito is survived by his mother, Rose Polito, of Valley Stream, L.I., and two brothers, Thomas, of Brooklyn, and Robert, of Stony Brook, L.I.
      