
        Efraim Racker, a leading researcher on energy storage in living cells and its implications for cancer, died on Monday at University Hospital in Syracuse. He was 78 years old and lived in Ithaca.
        He died of a stroke, said a spokeswoman for Cornell University, where Dr. Racker was on the faculty.
        Dr. Racker's research earned him the National Medal of Science, awarded by President Jimmy Carter in 1977. He had also been a member of a cancer advisory board to the National Cancer Institute and chairman of the biochemistry study section at the National Institutes of Health.
        For the last 25 years, Dr. Racker was the Albert Einstein professor of biochemistry at Cornell, one of 10 chairs endowed by the State Legislature to attract eminent scholars to New York. He was the chairman of the biochemistry and molecular biology department at Cornell from 1966 to 1970.
        In 1959, Dr. Racker and fellow researchers found that cancer cells have 10 times as much sugar-fermenting enzymes as do undiseased cells, causing a critical imbalance of lactic acid, which was believed to play a role in the proliferation of cancer cells. In 1976, he and Dr. Walther Stoeckenius reported their discovery of how an unusual bacterium that thrives in salt converts sunlight into chemical energy by passing protons through its membranes. More recently, he was researching signals that trigger cell activity. Fled Nazi Occupation
        Dr. Racker was born in Poland and grew up in Austria, where he received his medical degree from the University of Vienna in 1938. A Jew, he fled the Nazi occupation and went to South Wales to study brain metabolism at the Cardiff City Mental Hospital from 1938 to 1940.
        Over the next two years, at the University of Minnesota, he researched the effects of the poliomyelitis virus on the brain. Then, from 1942 to 1944, he was a resident in pneumonia at Harlem Hospital in New York City.
        Dr. Racker also taught microbiology at the New York University College of Medicine from 1944 to 1952. For the next two years he was a biochemistry professor at the Yale University School of Medicine. From 1954 to 1966 he was chief of the nutrition and physiology division of the Public Health Research Institute of New York.
        Dr. Racker wrote or co-wrote hundreds of scientific papers.
        He also painted portraits and abstracts and held a number of exhibitions, the proceeds from which he donated to cancer research.
        Dr. Racker is survived by his wife, Dr. Franziska Racker; a daughter, Dr. Ann Costello, and three grandchildren, all of Ithaca, and a sister, Miriam Racker of Haifa, Israel.
      