
        Adrian C. Israel, an investment banker and a former president of Bache & Company, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco. He was 75 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Israel was president and chairman of A. C. Israel Enterprises, an investment firm in White Plains.
        Much of his career was spent at Bache & Company, which he joined as a limited partner in 1945. He became general manager in 1964 and then president in 1965 as Bache was converting from a partnership to a corporation that was the third largest brokerage house in the nation.
        Mr. Israel had been considered an heir apparent to the company's founder and chief executive, Harold L. Bache. But barely a year after becoming president, Mr. Israel resigned. The official company statement attributed his departure to "a basic disagreement on corporate policy." There was no elaboration.
        Mr. Israel went on to other business ventures. His positions included chairman of Peoples Drug Stores and founder and chief executive officer of ACLI International, a commodities company with annual revenues of $3 billion. When ACLI was bought by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in 1981, he became a vice chairman of the parent company. He was also an officer or member of many of the leading commodity exchanges in New York and Chicago.
        Mr. Israel was a trustee of Montefiore Hospital in New York and Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif., near El Quinta and Palm Springs, where he spent winters. A longtime resident of Stamford, Conn., before moving to Pound Ridge, he was on the founding board of Stamford Hospital. He was also on the development committee at Yale University, his alma mater.
        Mr. Israel is survived by his third wife, Joy; a son, Thomas, of New York City and Katonah, N.Y.; a daughter, Stacy, of Rowayton, Conn.; two stepsons, Carl N. Miller 3d of New York City and Edward W. Miller of Far Hills, N.J., and several grandchildren.
      