
        Milton Harris, a prominent chemist whose research ranged from finding ways of keeping wool from shrinking to a substitute for sperm whale oil, died on Thursday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 85 years old.
        He died of stomach cancer, said his son, John A. Harris, of Potomac, Md.
        Dr. Harris was with the Gillette Corporation from 1956 to 1966, serving as director of research and a vice president. Earlier, he was president and director of research of Harris Research Laboratories in Washington and was with the Textile Foundation and other organizations.
        During World War II, Dr. Harris and associates developed a method to decrease the shrinking and lengthen the useful life of more than a hundred million Army socks. By 1981, 200 scientific articles by him had been published on the mechanical properties of textile fibers and fabrics and on other topics. Winner of Top Honor
        Dr. Harris was a former president of the American Institute of Chemists, which awarded him a Gold Medal, its highest honor, and praised him as a "great stimulator in virtually every arena of scientific and professional practice." He was also a former president of the American Chemical Society.
        He was born in Los Angeles, graduated from Oregon State College and received a Ph.D. in chemistry from Yale University in 1929.
        After retiring from Gillette, he was a director of the Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Company and served on numerous scientific, government and academic boards and committees. He was particularly active in Yale University affairs.
        One panel that he headed produced a study that led the National Academy of Sciences in 1975 to recommend the widespread cultivation of a little-known North American shrub, the jojoba, so its oil could be extracted as a substitute for sperm whale oil. This was seen as a way to help prevent the extinction of the sperm whale.
        Dr. Harris is survived by his wife, the former Carolyn Wolf; a sister, Helen Rotenberg of Portland, Ore.; his son, John, and seven grandchildren.
      