
        John K. Fairbank, the Harvard history professor who was widely credited with creating the field of modern Chinese studies in the United States and was a leading advocate of diplomatic recognition of the People's Republic of China, died Saturday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said Roderick MacFarquhar, a colleague.
        A towering figure in the field of Chinese studies, Mr. Fairbank left an indelible mark on scholarship and policy. He wrote and edited more than two dozen books, including "The United States and China," first published in 1948 by Harvard University Press, which many consider to be the best short introduction to Chinese history, culture and civilization.
        As a mentor to fledgling scholars and an organizer of academic programs, he helped pioneer Chinese and Asian studies at many universities, government agencies and private institutions in the United States and abroad.
        With Edwin O. Reischauer, Mr. Fairbank wrote "East Asia, The Great Tradition" and "East Asia, the Modern Transformation," widely used textbooks that are considered classics in their field. He and Mr. Reischauer introduced the first survey course on East Asian civilization at Harvard in 1939.
        In his lectures, Mr. Fairbank displayed a dry wit and a formal, courtly manner, but he was also known for his close, even paternal ties with his students. He influenced scores of future China scholars and authors, including Theodore H. White, whom Mr. Fairbank once described as his brightest student.
        "He really made Chinese modern history a major field in the general study of modern history," said Mr. MacFarquhar, the Leroy B. Williams Professor of History at Harvard and director of the John K. Fairbank Center for East Asian Research.
        "He took it out of the Oriental backwater it was in before 1945, making it accessible to a wider range of students who could go on." From South Dakota to Beijing
        John King Fairbank was born in Huron, S.D., in 1907. He attended public schools in Sioux Falls and went on to Phillips Exeter Academy. Originally enrolling at the University of Wisconsin, he transferred to Harvard, graduating summa cum laude in 1929.
        As a Rhodes Scholar from 1929 through 1932, Mr. Fairbank traveled to Beijing and served as a lecturer at Qinghua University. Over the next two years as a Rockefeller Foundation Fellow, he traveled widely in a dozen Chinese provinces.
        Mr. Fairbank joined the Harvard faculty in 1936, where he began to transform a field that until then had been largely concerned with Chinese antiquity.
        During World War II, Mr. Fairbank took a leave from Harvard and served with the Coordinator of Information and the Office of Strategic Services in Washington. Later in the war, he was special assistant to the American Ambassador and director of the American Publications Service in Chongqing. He returned to Washington and the Office of War Information in 1944, leaving again for China the following year, where he served as Director of the United States Information Service until 1946. Debate Over 'Losing China'
        In the late 1940's and early 1950's, Mr. Fairbank became ensnarled in the debate over who was responsible for "losing China" to the Communists, becoming a target for the ire of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. One former student said that period made a deep imprint on his thinking, leaving him infuriated with the American right wing and somewhat sympathetic with the Chinese Communists.
        Three decades later he acknowledged his earlier belief that Communism was "bad in America but good in China." That opinion had also reflected his view that Chinese issues should be evaluated in the context of that country's history and culture. But some critics charged that he had ignored the repressive excesses of the Communist dictatorship.
        During the 1950's, he and Mr. Reischauer designed a master's degree program in regional studies of China, Japan and later Korea which would train scholars, businessmen and journalists.
        Mr. Fairbank entered a prolific period in the 1960's, with his extensive writings and active lecture schedule focused on urging the United States to recognize the People's Republic of China and to bring it into the United Nations and replace Taiwan on the Security Council. Invited to China
        Mr. Fairbank returned to China in 1972, after President Richard M. Nixon restored relations with the Asian superpower. Seen as an enormously influential figure who helped form America's perceptions of Communist China, Mr. Fairbank was among a select group of scholars who were invited by Premier Zhou Enlai.
        "He often wrote things they didn't like, but they recognized him as the master builder in the field," Mr. MacFarquhar said.
        Mr. Fairbank was director of the East Asian Research Center at Harvard from 1955 until 1973. He was named Francis Lee Higginson Professor of History at Harvard in 1959, retiring in 1977. In 1979, he accompanied Vice President Walter F. Mondale on an official visit to China.
        Mr. Fairbank was recalled as being a tireless worker, and he recently finished editing his latest book, "China: A New History."
        He was a former president of the American Historical Association and the Association for Asian Studies. A recipient of numerous honorary degrees, Mr. Fairbank also received the Harvard Medal in 1986, given by the Harvard Alumni Association in recognition of service to the university.
        He is survived by his wife, Wilma Cannon Fairbank, and two daughters, Laura Fairbank and Holly Fairbank Tuck, and three grandchildren.
      