
        Zino Francescatti, the French violin virtuoso, died yesterday at his home in La Ciotat, France. He was 89 years old.
        He had been in failing health, a family friend said.
        Mr. Francescatti did not perform publicly in the last 15 years, but his recordings of the concerto repertory, along with his sonata recordings with the pianist Robert Casadesus, remain models of interpretive grace and technical polish. His phrasing was liquid and his tone refined, whether he was playing a Beethoven Violin Concerto or the Faure Sonata.
        In his performing style, Mr. Francescatti combined the heritage of Italian vocal lyricism and fine-grained French tone. But he did not emerge out of a particular school of violin playing -- his only teachers were his parents -- nor did he teach or leave behind a heritage of younger players imitating his style. 'A Noble Art'
        At the peak of Mr. Francescatti's career, in 1947, Virgil Thomson reviewed his playing in The New York Herald Tribune:
        "Everywhere there was beauty, dignity, repose and the authority of solid worth. If violin playing is in the way of becoming a noble art again . . . this artist is one of those responsible for the change."
        Mr. Francescatti's father, Rene, was a violinist and cellist in Marseilles, France, who studied with Paganini's only pupil, Ernesto Sivori (to whom six of Paganini's violin sonatas were dedicated). Mr. Francescatti's mother, Erneste, was also an accomplished violinist who had studied with her husband before her marriage.
        The young Zino, whose given name was also Rene but who preferred his nickname, was prodigious in his early talent and affection for the violin, even taking the instrument to bed with him at age 3. He gave his first public recital at age 5 and played the Beethoven Concerto when he was 10. But his father did not wish him to have the life of a child prodigy and finally discouraged his musical career, arguing, from first-hand experience, that it would not be financially secure. From Law to Music
        Mr. Francescatti began to study law but turned to a musical career at age 22, when his father suddenly died, leaving the family without income. He auditioned with Jacques Thibaud in Paris and made his debut in a concert at the Paris Opera. In 1928 he met Ravel and accompanied the composer on a tour of Britain, performing his chamber and violin works.
        When he returned to Paris, he was dismayed at how difficult it was to earn money as a solo violinist and asked the conductor of the Orchestre Straram for a steady section job instead of a solo engagement. He then began teaching at the Ecole Normale, where the pianist Alfred Cortot and the cellist Pablo Casals were also on the faculty. He also became the assistant concertmaster of the Concerts Poulet orchestra.
        Under the management of Leon Delort, his international career began to flourish with important tours of South America, Europe and finally, in 1939, the United States, where Arthur Judson of Columbia Concerts was his sponsor.
        During the following decades, Mr. Francescatti's playing earned high praise for his effortless virtuosity and stylish interpretations, as well as moderate criticism for his unvaried elegance.
        After his retirement, Mr. Francescatti sold his renowned "Hart" Stradivarius to establish the Zino Francescatti Foundation in La Ciotat to help young violinists, a foundation led by his wife, Yolande, who was also trained as a violinist.
        In 1958, Mr. Francescatti told Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times: "My philosophie is never to fight a piece. I only want to give the impression that music is poetic, beautiful and easy." By all accounts, he generally succeeded.
        He is survived by his wife.
      