
        Dr. Frank H. Netter, a physician and medical illustrator whose works became standard reference materials in medical school libraries around the world, died at Mount Sinai Medical Center on Tuesday. He was 85 years old and lived in West Palm Beach, Fla.
        He died of heart failure after a long illness, a cousin, Richard Netter, said.
        Dr. Netter was an artist who became a physician and then combined both his passions into one distinguished career. During his lifetime he produced more than 4,000 renderings of human anatomy, physiology and pathology. He illustrated the first open heart surgical operations, the first organ transplants and the first replacements of human joints.
        Among his works were "The Ciba Collection of Medical Illustrations," 13 volumes covering the anatomy, physiology and pathology of all the systems in the human body. "The Ciba Collection" has been translated into German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese and Japanese and is widely used in medical schools worldwide. More than three million copies have been sold.  Anatomy Atlas His 'Sistine Chapel'
        Dr. Netter considered his "Atlas of Human Anatomy," published by Ciba-Geigy's Medical Education Division in 1989, to be his crowning achievement. He called it his "Sistine Chapel."
        Frank H. Netter was born in Brooklyn in 1906. As a student at City College, he spent his afternoons studying art at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League. Despite his parents' urgings to become a physician, he became a successful commercial artist. But late in the 1920's he gave up his career and enrolled at the New York University School of Medicine.
        "I gave up art at the urging of my family, who felt that artists led a very dissolute life," he told the Journal of the American Medical Association in 1986.
        The illustrations he made in his notebooks soon came to the attention of his professors and he was soon illustrating their books and articles.  Exhibit Success; Audience Faints
        He finished his surgical residency in 1933 but turned his efforts to medical illustrating. One of his more unusual projects was a 7-foot, three-dimensional "transparent woman," built for the Golden Gate Exposition in 1939. With the aid of a synchronized voice recording, it depicted the physical and sexual development of a woman, including the development and birth of a baby.
        "We knew it was a successful model," Dr. Netter once said, "because every 15 minutes, someone viewing the presentation fainted."
        Dr. Netter moved from New York to West Palm Beach, Fla., in the 1970's, but he never retired. He told an interviewer that if he retired he would only continue to draw pictures. "Which," he said, "is what I'm doing now."
        Surviving are his wife, Vera, two sons, James, of Paoli, Pa., and Jonathan, of Hamburg, Germany; two daughters, Corneila Netter of New York City and Francine Carlson of Lindenhurst, N.Y.; a stepson, Jonathan Stetson of West Palm Beach, and eight grandchildren.
      