
        Leland Bell, a figurative painter and teacher, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. He was 69 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Reykjavik, Iceland.
        He died of leukemia, said his daughter, Temma Bell, who is also a painter.
        In a career that spanned more than four decades, Mr. Bell distinguished himself as a painter of rigorously schematized still lifes, portraits, self-portraits and interiors that followed painting's great figurative tradition while borrowing liberally from modernist abstraction. He was not an art star by any standard, but both his work and his ability as a teacher and lecturer earned him a fervent following that, in his later years, made him something of a cult figure on the New York art scene.
        Mr. Bell was a member of the original faculty of the New York Studio School, which was founded in 1964, and also taught at the Kansas City Art Institute, Indiana University, Yale University and the Parsons School of Design. Admired European Modernists
        The stately, somewhat anonymous figures in Mr. Bell's paintings could evoke artists like Piero della Francesca and Courbet, or the late works of Andre Derain, whose paintings the artist once defended in an article titled "The Case for Andre Derain as an Immortal." But these figures also came with confidently drawn black outlines, carefully adjusted colors and a sense of flattened space that reflected Mr. Bell's deep admiration for European modernists like Jean Arp and Piet Mondrian.
        The strong rhythms activated by these lines and colors also spoke well of an artist whose second passion was jazz. An accomplished amateur drummer, Mr. Bell sometimes incorporated cymbals and drum sets into his still lifes, and at the time of his death was working on a portrait of Lester Young, the jazz saxophonist. In addition, the rhythmic lines and somewhat unfinished surfaces of Mr. Bell's paintings -- he was notorious for reworking his canvases, even after they had been exhibited -- linked his art tangentially to Abstract Expressionism, a style with which he had little sympathy.
        Mr. Bell was born on Sept. 17, 1922 in Cambridge, Md. He grew up in Brooklyn and Washington and moved to New York in the early 1940's, supporting himself at odd jobs, including working on tugboats, and then by taking groups through museums, lecturing on art. In 1944 he married Louisa Matthiasdottir, a figurative painter from Iceland, with whom he sometimes exhibited his work.
        Mr. Bell's first one-man show was held at the Hansa Gallery in 1955.  From 1964 to 1990 he exhibited regularly at the Robert Schoelkopf Gallery. The Phillips Collection in Washington organized a retrospective of his paintings and drawings in 1987.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a brother, Richard N. Bell of Middleburg, Va.; a sister, Bayla Landis Bell of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      