
        Rob Tyner, the lead singer for the rock group MC5, died on Tuesday in Detroit. He was 46 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, the police said. The Reuters news agency reported that Mr. Tyner, whose real name was Robert Derminer, was found near his home in the suburb of Berkley, slumped behind the wheel of his car, not breathing and with an irregular pulse. Police officers took him to Beaumont Hospital in Royal Oak, where he died, a police spokesman said.
        The MC5, shortened from the Motor City Five, was a quintessential late-1960's rock band, playing anarchic live concerts of music with a pounding beat, distorted guitars and radical exhortations delivered in Mr. Tyner's howling voice. The music was rooted in blues and soul, but its brute force and its gift for noise made it a huge influence on punk-rock from the mid-1970's onward.
        The MC5 was formed in Lincoln Park, a suburb of Detroit, in 1965. Its manager, John Sinclair, was also the leader of the radical White Panther Party. After the group's performance during the turbulent 1968 Democratic Party convention in Chicago, it was signed by Elektra Records. It released its first album, a live recording called "Kick Out the Jams," in 1969. The album's use of profanity caused problems with record stores, although an expurgated version was released, and the group was dropped by Elektra. Group members were also arrested repeatedly on various charges, including obscenity.
        The group released two subsequent albums, "Back in the U.S.A." and "High Time," for Atlantic Records before disbanding in 1972. Afterward, Mr. Tyner worked with local bands in Detroit, and in 1990 he released the album "Bloodbrothers" on the local R&A label.
        Elektra plans to reissue "Kick Out the Jams" in November; in the liner notes for the reissue, Mr. Tyner wrote, "This is a portrayal of a struggle to create a world that was destined never to be."
        He is survived by his wife, Becky, and three children.
      