
        Sir Pao Yue-kong, a Shanghai bank clerk who became one of the world's richest men, died yesterday at his home in Hong Kong after a two-year battle with asthma, a family spokesman said. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Pao, who was known by the Anglicized version of his name, Y. K. Pao, had several careers. He was a banker in Shanghai until just before the Communist takeover of China in 1949. He fled to Hong Kong and opened an import and export business.
        In 1955 he moved to shipping with a secondhand coal-burning vessel. By 1980 he owned 200 vessels. When the market for tankers plunged, he sold ships, reducing his fleet to about 100 while improving his financial condition. He called the company World-Wide Shipping and Wharf Holdings.
        In 1976 Aristotle S. Onassis and his daughter, Christina, met Mr. Pao in New York to see whether they could learn some of his secrets of success. The entrepreneur talked freely. "Take a thin profit," he said, "and never accept an escalation clause in a shipbuilding contract." From City of Traders
        Forbes Magazine recently estimated Mr. Pao's worth at $1.3 billion. He reportedly never carried money, but preferred to borrow from his chauffeur.
        Mr. Pao was born in Ningbo, a city 100 miles south of Shanghai known for producing shrewd, hard-driving traders. "No market is without Ningbo traders," is an old Chinese saying, and nowhere does it apply more accurately than in Hong Kong. Thousands of Ningbo executives were said to have fled to Hong Kong in advance of the Communists. Today they make up a strong and clannish group of prosperous entrepreneurs.
        Mr. Pao kept close contacts with Ningbo and China, anticipating Hong Kong's absorption into China in 1997.  Beijing made him vice chairman of a committee to draft the basic law under which the territory will be governed when China takes over.
        "Sir Y. K. Pao was one of Hong Kong's leading businessmen and, perhaps, the first to achieve a truly international stature," the colony's Governor, Sir David Wilson, said yesterday.  Jump Rope and Pools
        Mr. Pao had interests in Hong Kong property through his Hongkong and Kowloon Wharf Company. At one point he had a major position in Standard Chartered P.L.C., Britain's fifth-largest bank.
        He was a fitness enthusiast who carried a jump rope in his luggage and tried to stay at hotels with swimming pools. He lived modestly in the Deep Water Bay area of Hong Kong. When Mr. Pao retired in 1986, his son-in-law, Peter Woo, was appointed to succeed him as chairman of World-Wide Shipping and of Kowloon Wharf Holdings.
        Survivors include his wife, Lady Pao; 4 daughters and 10 grandchildren.
      