
        Hugh Morrow, a speech writer and longtime public relations adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at his home in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. It was his 76th birthday.
        He died of complications from a stroke, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        Mr. Morrow began his communications career as a reporter for The Centre Daily Times in State College, Pa., in 1935. He worked for various newspapers before joining The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1939. From 1946 to 1957, he was an associate editor of The Saturday Evening Post, based in Washington.
        After brief stints as a press aide with United States Senators Irving Ives and Kenneth B. Keating, he began his long association with Mr. Rockefeller. Starting as a speech writer in 1959, he served variously as a special assistant during Mr. Rockefeller's terms as Governor of New York from 1960 to 1969, as Mr. Rockefeller's director of communications from 1969 to 1973, and as his secretary from 1974 to 1976 when Mr. Rockefeller was Vice President. When Mr. Rockefeller returned to private life, Mr. Morrow went along as a press counselor and confidential aide. Touched by Controversy
        Mr. Rockefeller's career was often surrounded by controversy and some of it involved Mr. Morrow. In 1974, just before he became Vice President, Mr. Rockefeller disclosed that he had made gifts and loans totaling $550,000 to a number of his close associates, including Mr. Morrow. In a letter to the Senate Rules Committee, Mr. Rockefeller said he had loaned Mr. Morrow $35,000 in 1967 and forgiven it three years later. Subsequently, he said, he gave Mr. Morrow a gift of $100,000 and another loan of $30,000. When Mr. Rockefeller died in 1979, the second loan was forgiven in his will.
        It was Mr. Morrow who disclosed Mr. Rockefeller's death to the press. He first reported that Mr. Rockefeller had died at his desk while working late in his New York office. The next day, reporters learned that Mr. Rockefeller had actually died in a town house he owned while he was with a young woman who was one of his aides. Still later, it was learned that an hour had elapsed from the time that Mr. Rockefeller had collapsed until the police were called and that a second young woman had been present before the police arrived. Mr. Morrow changed his accounts of the events as new details were learned from other sources.
        Mr. Morrow was born in Williamsburg, Pa., and attended Bucknell University. He remained an adviser to the Rockefeller family until 1982 when he retired.
        His first marriage, to Elise Vickers, ended in divorce. His second wife, Carolyn Davison Hayden, died in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Sally Shroyer Morrow; three sons, Hugh, of Greenwich, Conn., Lance, of New York City, Patrick, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Christina Curtis of Hartland, Vt., and Dr. Cathy Morrow of Eastport, Me., all from his first marriage; a son, Davison, of Washington, a daughter, Carolyn, of Boston, and two stepsons, Hugh Hayden of Chicago, and Donald Hayden of New Haven, all from his second marriage.
      