
        Thomas J. Bradley, a Bayport, L.I., teacher who won a court battle to get medical coverage for a bone-marrow transplant to fight AIDS, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Rego Park, Queens.
        He died of an AIDS-related illness, said his twin brother, Bob.
        Mr. Bradley, a popular teacher at Bayport-Blue Point in the South Shore School district on Long Island, won a highly publicized court battle last year to force Empire Blue Cross-Blue Shield to pay the estimated $150,000 it would cost for the bone-marrow transplant from his brother.
        Mr. Bradley, who was born in Brooklyn and had taught fifth grade at Bayport-Blue Point since 1971, became seriously ill in the spring of 1990. He had never disclosed his private life to his students or to other faculty members; he told them he had lymphoma cancer. When he had lost 45 pounds, doctors at the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center urged him to try a type of bone-marrow transplant usually reserved for cancer patients. Rallied Around Him
        The procedure was set for June 4, 1990. On June 1, Empire Blue Cross said it would not pay, calling the operation experimental. Mr. Bradley sued, knowing that his real affliction would become known in Bayport for the first time.
        When the story broke, students, the faculty and most of the town of Bayport rallied around him. Children took to the streets and gathered more than 1,000 signatures calling for Blue Cross to pay for the operation. Adults held raffles, a bake sale and a dinner, and raised $15,000 for Mr. Bradley's legal fees.
        In August 1990, Justice Elliott Wilk of State Supreme Court in Manhattan ruled that Blue Cross must pay for the procedure. But by then it was too late. Mr. Bradley had developed an eye infection that made the transplant impossible. He spent the last year of his life speaking out for AIDS patients. He entered the hospital two weeks ago to be treated for bacterial pneumonia.
        Both Mr. Bradley and his twin had originally planned to enter the priesthood. Bob Bradley left the seminary after disclosing that he was a homosexual. Thomas Bradley left later. Both received degrees in education at Hunter College, both taught in Brooklyn parochial schools and both moved to the Bayport-Blue Point system in 1971.
        Besides his brother, Mr. Bradley is survived by his mother, Helen, and two sisters, JoAnn Hubbard of East Meadow and Pat Russo of Queens.
      