
        John Cotter, an editor who worked for two of New York City's tabloid newspapers and who was about to become a managing editor of a third, The Daily News, died yesterday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 48 years old.
        Mr. Cotter apparently died of a heart attack in his sleep, his family said.
        Known for his energetic personality in the newsroom and a keen sense of a story, Mr. Cotter thrived on the competitive pressures of the city's tabloid wars. "In an age of serious professional journalism he was a taste of the old days," said James P. Willse, who is the editor of The News and who worked with Mr. Cotter at The Associated Press.
        Mr. Cotter was The Post's metropolitan editor for two years and held the same title at New York Newsday for a year. He resigned after the paper received complaints that he had made racially and sexually offensive remarks. His appointment as managing editor for news at The Daily News was announced on Oct. 18 as part of a newsroom management reorganization. From The Patriot to The Post
        Mike McAlary, a columnist for The Post, said that on Thursday Mr. Cotter went for a routine physical examination for The News but was still at work at The Post. That night he helped edit a Post sports column, spoke by telephone with Mr. Willse and went to bed wearing a Post T-shirt, Mr. McAlary said.
        Born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Mr. Cotter was a graduate of the University of Scranton and began his career at The Patriot in Harrisburg, Pa. He went to the A.P.'s Pittsburgh bureau in 1968 and later became the enterprise editor at the wire service's headquarters at Rockefeller Center in Manhattan.
        He later worked as a writer and editor for the Reuters news agency and for The Daily News. For one project at The News, a five-part series of articles, he posed as a recruit with the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church. Mr. Cotter had also worked for The Post as day city editor 10 years ago.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann E., and their three children, Courtney, Gavin and Megan, all of Darien.
      