
        Dr. Joseph F. Fletcher, a founder of the field of biomedical ethics whose 1966 book "Situation Ethics" sparked both scholarly and popular debate, died Monday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville, Va.  He was 86 years old.
        He died of cardiovascular disease, the hospital said.
        Over several decades, Dr. Fletcher, an ordained Episcopal priest and professor of ethics who wrote 11 books and more than 350 articles, repeatedly set an agenda for moral inquiry with his deliberately provocative writings.
        "Joseph Fletcher was a true pioneer in modern biomedical ethics," said James Childress, a professor of religious studies at the University of Virginia, "and as the field developed, he challenged all of us through his writings and conversations to think more clearly and deeply about the important ethical issues of our times."  Stirring Debate
        In 1954, he published "Morals and Medicine," arguing the case for active euthanasia, for telling the truth to dying patients, for artificial insemination and for sterilization of those judged unfit for parenthood. The book stirred debates, many still unresolved, that shaped the field of medical ethics.
        In "Situation Ethics," Dr. Fletcher, then a teacher at the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass., argued that all general, abstract laws of morality had to give way to whatever actions seemed most loving in a given situation. Although other scholars attacked situation ethics as either dangerous or too vague to resolve difficult moral conflicts, Dr. Fletcher's argument resonated widely in a decade marked by discontent with conventions and established authorities.
        Dr. Fletcher was an unabashed admirer of human reason and the use of technology. "Being artificial is supremely human," he once wrote, and he strongly defended genetic engineering and artificial reproductive technologies like in vitro fertilization.  'The Red Churchman'
        A social activist all his life, Dr. Fletcher worked in support of labor unions and was twice beaten unconscious while lecturing in the South for the Southern Tenant Farmers' Union.  In the 1950's he came under attack by Congressional committees investigating Communism and was dubbed "the Red Churchman" by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin.
        In the late 1960's, he renounced belief in God and publicly espoused humanism, although he maintained many of his ties to religious groups and members of the clergy.
        Dr. Fletcher was born in Newark, and was a graduate of West Virginia University and Berkeley Divinity School. His first wife, Forrest Hatfield, who died in 1988 after 60 years of marriage, had worked closely with Margaret Sanger, the proponent of birth control.
        Dr. Fletcher helped establish the Planned Parenthood Federation, the Association for Voluntary Sterilization, the Association for the Study of Abortion, the Soviet-American Friendship Society and the Society for the Right to Die. A visiting scholar at many universities around the world, Dr. Fletcher since 1970 had given many lectures and seminars at the university in Charlottesville, where he lived in recent years.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Hobbs Fletcher; a daughter, Jane Fletcher Geniesse, and three grandchildren.
      