
        The Ecumenical Patriarch Dimitrios I of Constantinople, the spiritual leader of more than 250 million Eastern Orthodox Christians, died yesterday in Istanbul. He was 77 years old.
        He died in the intensive care unit of the American Admiral Bristol hospital, where he had been a patient since suffering a heart attack on Monday, The Associated Press said. Frank Turnaoglu, the doctor attending Patriarch Dimitrios, was quoted as saying that the primate suffered a second heart attack yesterday, went into shock and died of cardiac arrest. Successor to St. Andrew
        Considered a mildly liberal theologian in a church noted for its conservatism, Patriarch Dimitrios was elected in 1972 as the 269th successor to St. Andrew, the apostle to whom Orthodox Christianity traces its roots.
        The Patriarch lived in Istanbul, where tradition holds Andrew founded the church. Orthodox Christians continue to call the city by its Byzantine name of Constantinople. The Ecumenical Patriarch's position within his Church parallels that of the Pope, which traces back to Andrew's brother, the Apostle Peter.
        Patriarch Dimitrios held spiritual primacy over leaders of self-governing Orthodox churches in a score of nations. Unlike the Pope, the Ecumenical Patriarch does not have direct authority over any of the churches, although they are united in doctrine and people may worship and receive the sacraments in any of them.
        The church over which he presided originated in the Roman and Byzantine empires and spread to many of the Slavic nations in the 9th and 10th centuries. Cultural, theological and political differences gradually led to a break with Western Christianity. The Pope and the Patriarch of Constantinople excommunicated one another in 1054. Considered Unlikely Candidate
        Patriarch Dimitrios, who was required to be a citizen by Turkey's Government, also held several offices held by the old Byzantine emperor before he was deposed in the 15th century.
        His election as Patriarch came only five months after he had been elevated to the rank of Metropolitan Archbishop of Imbros and Tenedos, Turkish islands in the Aegean Sea.
        He was considered the least likely of the three candidates for Ecumenical Patriarch. But he received 12 of the 15 possible votes from the Holy Synod of the Eastern Orthodox Church, which functions in the same way as Rome's College of Cardinals. The Turkish Government played a strong role in the three-day election by refusing to allow the two most prominent candidates, Metropolitan Meliton, head of the Orthodox Holy Synod, and Archbishop Iakovos of North America, to be entered in the balloting.
        In 1987, he visited the Soviet Union, conferring with prelates there, including the late Patriarch Pimen, head of the Russian Orthodox Church. The Soviet visit was the first by a patriarch since 1589.
        Patriarch Dimitrios also visited Orthodox leaders in Greece, Yugoslavia, Romania, Poland and Bulgaria. He met Pope John Paul II at the Vatican and conferred with the World Council of Churches in Geneva and with the Archbishop of Canterbury in London. Was First to Visit U.S.
        Last year he became the first Patriarch to visit the Western Hemisphere when he presided over a congress of clerical and lay leaders in Washington. The group recommended that the church allow married priests to become bishops. Eastern Christianity has always allowed married men to become deacons and then priests.
        To prevent dynasties in the church hierarchy, only priests who were pledged to celibacy had been allowed to advance to the office of bishop.
        Patriarch Dimitrios also urged unity within the fragmented family of Orthodox church groups in the United States. There are about five million American followers of the Eastern Orthodox Christian tradition. If they belonged to a single church rather than more than a dozen, they would make up the nation's fifth-largest Christian demonimation, after Catholics, Southern Baptists, United Methodists and the Evangelical Lutherans.
        Dimitrios Papadopoulos was born on Sept. 8, 1914, in Istanbul. He received his early education at a Greek school in Therapia and began his theological studies at the age of 17 at Halki, the island monastery that has produced many Orthodox Christian leaders. He spoke French, Greek and Turkish and taught classical Greek.
        He was named a deacon in 1937 and worked in an Istanbul parish before going to Greece on a two-year preaching assignment. In 1942 he was ordained a priest in the parish of Ferikoy, an Istanbul suburb. He was consecrated a bishop in 1964.
        A spokesman for the see of the Eastern Orthodox Church, Father Basil, told The Associated Press that church leaders would meet soon to decide the date of Patriarch Dimitrios's funeral. His successor is chosen by the Holy Synod, which must submit his name to the Turkish Government for approval. Turkey requires the patriarch to be a Turkish citizen.
      