
        Mario Scelba, a founder of Italy's dominant Christian Democratic party, a former Prime Minister and the postwar Interior Minister whose riot squads battled Communists on the left and neo-Fascists on the right in the unsettled years of the young republic, died on Tuesday in Rome. He was 90 years old.
        A party official said he died at his home of thrombosis.
        A Sicilian lawyer, Mr. Scelba was named Interior Minister in 1947 by Prime Minister Alcide de Gasperi and remained in the post for six years. He served as Italy's fifth Prime Minister in 1954 and 1955, Christian Democratic party leader in 1966, and President of the European Parliament from 1969 to 1971. Threats From Left and Right
        As Mr. Scelba took over as Interior Minister, the sparse and ill-equipped police units at his command faced threats of violence from both the left and right. Italy's Communists had been frozen out of the government and the extreme right refused to accept the collapse of Fascism.
        Mr. Scelba quickly assembled a motorized force with the latest in riot-control equipment and enough manpower to cover the length and breadth of the Italian boot.
        The definitive test of strength came in 1950 during a nationwide general strike and mounting street clashes. On one day in March 1950, hundreds were wounded, including many policemen, and 7,000 people were arrested.  Emerged as Prime Minister
        Out of office for five months after Mr. de Gasperi's death, Mr. Scelba emerged as Prime Minister in 1954 and led a center-right government for 16 months. He sought strong relations with the United States and helped resolve outstanding wartime issues like the recovery of Trieste for Italy.
        In June 1955, Mr. Scelba's Government collapsed amid animosities among party factions. A political rival from the party's left wing, Antonio Segni, put together the first of Italy's many center-left coalitions. Although he remained a member of the Italian parliament, Mr. Scelba's right wing of the party never had the strength to command another government.
        The son of a peasant, Mr. Scelba attended a seminary in his native Caltagirone, an ancient town founded by the Saracens, and studied law in Rome. He began his political career as personal secretary to the Rev. Luigi Sturzo, founder of the Popular Party, a forerunner of the Christian Democrats.
        The Fascists outlawed the Popular Party but, working underground, Mr. Scelba escaped their attention and helped found the party's newspaper, Il Popolo. In 1945, he won a seat in the postwar Constituent Assembly and entered de Gasperi's Cabinet as Minister of Post and Telecommunications.
        The names of his survivors were not immediately available.
      