
        Leonard A. Rapping, an economist who advised several Federal agencies and helped develop theories on the interplay of human behavior and business cycles, died Tuesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
        Dr. Rapping, a resident of Newton, Mass., was 57 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said.
        With Robert E. Lucas Jr., his co-author, Dr. Rapping helped lay the foundation for what was called equilibrium business cycle theory. It holds that the financial expectations of business executives and consumers help mold their decisions and therefore influence economic outcomes.
        That theory was applied to help analyze the 1970's phenomenon of "stagflation," in which prices rose despite economic stagnation and recession. Was Working on Book
        At the time of his death, Dr. Rapping was completing a book for the Twentieth Century Fund on the social and economic effects of the slowdown in American wages in recent years. He was an author of numerous books and journal articles.
        Early in his career, Dr. Rapping held a laissez-faire view of government's role in the economy but grew to believe capitalism needed regulation. He wrote that a free-rein market is subject to "the confusion and chaos of the gladiatorial arena." He criticized President Ronald Reagan's supply-side economics, calling it a policy that "transfers money from the poor to the rich."
        As a consultant and researcher, Dr. Rapping worked for the Federal Bureau of the Budget, the Defense Department, the Justice Department, the Labor Department and the Transportation Department. Other clients included the Center for Naval Analysis and Northwestern University's Transportation Center.
        Dr. Rapping also served as director of the National Academy of Science's Panel on Technology and Employment and worked for the Rand Corporation.
        For the last seven years, he was a professor at the University of Massachusetts and for 12 years before that was on the faculty at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh. He also taught at Brandeis University, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Nevada, San Fernando State College and University of California at Los Angeles.
        Born in Indianapolis, Dr. Rapping was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of U.C.L.A. and earned his doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Judith Alt Wilson; a daughter, Alison of Washington; a son, Jonathan of Princeton; two stepchildren, Eric Wilson of Philadelphia and Arianna Wilson of Springfield, Mass.; a brother, Richard of Los Angeles, and a sister, Hanna Lee Jutovsky of Navato, Calif.
      