
        Peter Heyworth, a music critic for The Observer of London and the author of an acclaimed biography of the conductor Otto Klemperer, died on Tuesday. He was 70 years old and lived in London and Dorset, England.
        A spokesman for The Observer said Mr. Heyworth died of a stroke while on vacation in Greece.
        Mr. Heyworth was chief music critic of The Observer from 1955 to 1987 and continued writing for the paper until he retired in June. He was also a European musical correspondent and critic for The New York Times from 1960 to 1975. In that capacity, he wrote regularly about contemporary music, including reports on the premieres of works by Benjamin Britten, Sir Michael Tippett, Luigi Nono, Hans Werner Henze and Krzyzstof Penderecki. But when the occasion demanded it -- for instance, when Maria Callas returned to Covent Garden after a long absence to sing "Tosca" in 1964 -- he covered standard repertory works, too.
        His writing was clear and witty, and when he believed in a work, he argued for it with persuasive passion. In a 1971 New York Times review of Mr. Tippett's "Midsummer Marriage," for example, he wrote almost apologetically about proclaiming the work a masterpiece, but he added: "In all sobriety I can find no other word to describe the extraordinary capacity of this music to enter one's life, so that when on a walk a friend exclaims, 'the sun!', one's mind is carried in a flash to the great chorus at the opening of Tippett's score."
        Mr. Heyworth was born in New York City on June 3, 1921, and was educated at Charterhouse and Balliol College, Oxford. He also studied for six months at the University of Gottingen in Germany and had a feeling for German culture that was evident both in his reviewing and in his Klemperer biography. In 1952, he joined The Times of London Educational Supplement, where he worked as a music critic for three years before joining The Observer.
        In 1984, his book "Otto Klemperer: His Life and Times, Volume I" was published by Cambridge University Press. At nearly 500 pages, it was extraordinarily detailed; in fact, it covered only the conductor's early years, from 1885 to 1933. Reviewing it in The New York Times, John Rockwell described it as "one of the most informative, readable musical biographies ever written." A second volume, covering the rest of Klemperer's life, is said to be complete and awaiting revisions.
        Mr. Heyward is survived by a brother and three nephews.
      