
        Frank L. Magee, a retired chairman and president of the Aluminum Company of America, the world's largest producer of aluminum, died on Friday at Latrobe Hospital in Latrobe, Pa. He was 95 years old and lived in Stahlstown, Pa.
        Mr. Magee died of heart failure, said A. T. Posti, a spokesman for Alcoa.
        In a 46-year career with Alcoa, Mr. Magee began as a $15-a-week apprentice engineer in 1917, served as a salesman and sales and production manager, and rose to the executive suite and board room as the company evolved from a modest military contractor into one of the nation's corporate giants, making everything from aluminum foil and soda cans to auto bodies, aircraft and missiles.
        Born in Shamokin, Pa., on April 13, 1896, the son of a business college president, Frank Lynn Magee attended Bethlehem Preparatory School, graduated from Lehigh University with a degree in electrical engineering and joined Alcoa shortly afterward. Served in World War I
        His career was soon interrupted for Army service in World War I, ending as a Signal Corps sergeant in France. Returning to Alcoa in 1919, he became a successful salesman, persuading utilities across the country to switch from copper alloys to lightweight, corrosive-resistant aluminum for high-tension transmission lines.
        He served in a succession of sales and sales managerial posts until 1937, when he switched to production management. During World War II, he was Alcoa's general production manager, and was awarded a Presidential Certificate of Merit for helping the nation to meet unprecedented goals in aluminum war production.
        Mr. Magee was named a vice president of Alcoa in 1946 and executive vice president in 1955, and was elected president in 1957 and chairman in 1960. He retired as chairman in 1962, but continued as chairman of the executive committee until 1965.
        A tall, low-key man who loved golf and lake-bass fishing, Mr. Magee for many years raised pedigree Hereford cattle on a farm near Donegal, Pa.
        His first wife, the former Marie Janet Weston, died in 1935. He is survived by his second wife, the former Dorothy C. Hurlock, whom he married in 1938; three sons, Curtis W. Magee of Newport, R.I., George L. Hoffman Jr. of Mesa, Ariz., and William H. Hoffman of Wayne, Pa., seven grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held on Monday at St. Michael of the Valley Church in Rector, Pa.
      