
        Joseph Kaplan, a physicist known for his research on atmospheric phenomena and for his leadership in international work in geophysics, died Thursday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 89.
        Dr. Kaplan died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Kaplan's research was mainly concerned with the character of auroras as well as the faint illuminations in the night sky called airglows and other such phenomena. His work stimulated research in many countries.  Teacher and Adviser
        A professor emeritus of physics at the University of California at Los Angeles, he was a co-founder in the 1940's of its geophysics institute. He also served in consulting positions, including as a scientific adviser to the military in the 40's and early 50's and to Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard M. Nixon. He was a former chairman of the National Committee for the International Geophysical Year, organized as a forum for scientists from a number of countries.
        In Los Angeles, where Dr. Kaplan worked throughout his career, he was known for his devotion to teaching and for his enthusiastic promotion of college athletics, including his strong backing for the establishment of degree programs in sports at the university. He once told a colleague that during intense collegiate athletic contests he became "a five-cigar man."
        Born in Austria-Hungary in 1902, he moved to Baltimore at the age of 8 with his parents and 11 brothers and sisters. He attended Johns Hopkins University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry and a master's degree and doctorate in physics.
        In 1928, he joined the University of California as an assistant professor in physics, becoming an associate and then full professor in the department, in which he taught until 1980. He served as its chairman from 1939 to 1944.
        He played a leading role in setting up the university's Institute of Geophysics, established in 1944, and served as its director from 1946 to 1947. The institute now has five branches in the California state system; 19 of its members have been appointed to the National Academy of Sciences and the Nobel Prize has been awarded to one member.
        During World War II, Dr. Kaplan was chief of the Operations Analysis Sections for the military. He later headed the Air Force's Air Weather Service.  Consultant to Military
        During the 1940's, he also was chairman of two panels of advisers to the Scientific Advisory Group, a military organization, later serving in an advisory position for the White House's Office of Science and Technology. He became a member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1957.
        Beginning in 1948, Dr. Kaplan became involved in international scientific programs. He was named chairman of the National Committee for the International Geophysical Year in 1953 and he served in that capacity for 10 years, leading more than 5,000 specialists from 61 nations.
        Dr. Kaplan is survived by his wife, Frances.
      