
        Edwin Webb Martin, a retired Foreign Service officer, China expert and former Ambassador to Burma, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Washington and in Otis, Mass.
        He died after surgery for an aortic aneurysm, his family said.
        Mr. Martin, born in India to American missionary parents, graduated from Oberlin College and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, after which he received his first foreign posting in 1941 as vice consul in Hamilton, Bermuda.
        After holding the same position in Leopoldville, Belgian Congo, Mr. Martin studied Chinese at Yale University and in Beijing. He held consular posts in Hankou and Taipei and returned to Washington to work in the Office of Chinese Affairs, in which he served as deputy director from 1953 to 1955 and director from 1958 to 1961. Korean War Truce Talks
        In the 1950's Mr. Martin also took part in talks with Communist Chinese and North Korean delegations at Panmunjom, scene of the Korean War truce negotiations; served as an American representative at talks with the Communist Chinese in Geneva, and was an adviser to the American team at the Geneva Conference on Korea and Indo-China.
        In 1961 Mr. Martin became political adviser with the rank of minister to the Commander in Chief, Pacific Forces, in Honolulu. He moved on to Ankara in 1964 as deputy chief of mission, served as Consul General in Hong Kong from 1967 to 1970 and from 1971 to 1973 was the United States Ambassador to Burma, now Myanmar.
        Mr. Martin then retired with the permanent rank of career minister and turned to teaching and writing. He spent five years at Hiram College in Ohio as professor of diplomacy and published three books, "Southeast Asia and China: The End of Containment" (Westview Press, 1977),"Divided Counsel: The Anglo-American Response to Communist Victory in China" (University Press of Kentucky, 1986) and "The Hubbards of Sivas: A Chronicle of Love and Faith," (Fithian Press, 1991) an account of the years his wife's grandparents spent as missionaries among the Armenians in Turkey.
        Mr. Martin is survived by his wife, the former Emma-Rose Hubbard; two daughters, Margo Cairns of Haverford, Pa., and Sylvia Lindsay of Shutesbury, Mass.; two sons, Edwin H. of Chicago and David W. of Upland, Calif.; a brother, Dr. T. Sterling Martin of El Paso, Tex.; a sister, Mary Stern of West Lafayette, Ind., and seven grandchildren.
      