
        Relatives and friends of Anthony Bliss gathered at the Juilliard Theater on Monday afternoon for a memorial service in which his enthusiasms and accomplishments were recalled in touching and, at times, amusing detail. Mr. Bliss, the executive director of the Metropolitan Opera for 11 years beginning in 1974, and a co-chairman of the Joffrey Ballet until 1990, died on Aug. 10 at the age of 78.
        Musical performances framed and punctuated the tribute. It began with the Intermezzo from Puccini's "Manon Lescaut," played by the principal string players of the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra: Raymond Gniewek and Shirien Taylor, violinists; Michael Ouzounian, violist, and Jascha Silberstein, cellist. It ended with the Pas de Deux from Act I of Prokofiev's "Romeo and Juliet," choreographed by John Cranko and danced by two members of the Joffrey Ballet, Tina LeBlanc and Tom Mossbrucker.
        Elsewhere during the 80-minute tribute, one of Mr. Bliss's daughters, Barbara Last, sang a setting of "The Lord's Prayer," accompanied by Randolph White. And James Levine, the Metropolitan's artistic director and once part of an administrative triumvirate with Mr. Bliss and John Dexter, accompanied the mezzo-soprano Frederica von Stade in Schubert's "Ave Maria" and Gershwin's "Summertime."
        Alexander Ewing, a former general director of the Joffrey company, spoke emotionally of how Mr. Bliss took on the responsibilities of the Joffrey Foundation after Mr. Ewing's wife died. "He was the one person I felt I could turn to for help," Mr. Ewing said. "I don't know anyone who, when he was asked to help, felt it was so incumbent on him to respond and to take the challenge. He was a patrician in the finest sense of the word. He took care of everything that was entrusted to his charge." Encouraged Dreams
        Jane Hermann, a co-director of American Ballet Theater, spoke of the time Mr. Bliss encouraged her to undertake the series of summer presentations that she offered at the Met for many years. "He never stopped me from dreaming," she said. "I don't know what more you can ask of someone you work for."
        Two of Mr. Bliss's sons, Anthony Jr. and Mark Brayley, offered more personal reminiscences, speaking of their father's love of dog breeding, baseball and improvisatory storytelling. John V. Lindsay, the former Mayor, spoke of Mr. Bliss's service to the arts as an important contribution to life in New York City.
        Frank S. M. Hodsoll, the former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts and now a member of the White House budget office, described Mr. Bliss as "what my boss, President Bush, would call a point of light."
        The other speakers were Daniel G. Tenney Jr., a senior partner at Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, the law firm where Mr. Bliss was also a partner, and Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, the honorary chairman of the Metropolitan Opera's board of directors.
      