
        J. Burch McMorran, a career civil servant who helped design and build some of the most important public works projects in New York State, died on Sunday at Eddy Memorial Geriatric Center in Troy, N.Y. He was 92 years old and lived in Troy.
        He died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. McMorran got a job as a road laborer in 1918, just after being discharged from the Army and just before entering Syracuse University. By 1969, when he retired as the state's first Commissioner of Public Transporation, he had held a series of high public works posts under Governors Thomas E. Dewey and Nelson A. Rockefeller, and had been a chief aide to Robert Moses during some of the "master builder's" most productive years.  Highways and Power Projects
        Mr. McMorran played a major role in the design and construction of the New York State Thruway and the Adirondack Northway, which runs between Albany and the Canadian border. In the mid-1950's, he served as chief engineer of the State Power Authority under Robert Moses during the building of the St. Lawrence Seaway and the Niagara Power projects.
        In 1967 Governor Rockefeller tapped him to head the new State Transporation Department, which the Legislature created earlier that year to coordinate transporation and development policies in the state. One of the four agencies the new department absorbed was the Department of Public Works, which Mr. McMorran had directed since 1959.
        When Mr. McMorran reached the state's mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1969, Mr. Rockefeller said that his "true and lasting monument is there for all to see in the 18,000 miles of the best-designed roads in the United States; in your engineering of the St. Lawrence and Niagara Power projects, and in the Thruway, perhaps the world's finest toll road."
        Mr. McMorran was born in St. Lawrence County in July 1899. His family moved to Syracuse when he was an infant.
        He did road work for the state while pursuing a civil engineering degree at Syracuse University, and then joined the public works department as an engineer upon graduation.
        He interrupted his career in the 1940's to re-enlist in the Army and spent the war building roads, bridges, airfields and hospitals in the South Pacific, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Returning to civilian life, Mr. McMorran became Chief Engineer of New York State during the Dewey administration. He resigned in 1954 to join Mr. Moses, then returned in 1959 to head the public works agency.
        Mr. McMorran's wife, Ruth Margaret Trett McMorran, died last year.
        He is survived by two sons, J. Burch McMorran Jr., of Boulder, Colo., and William T. McMorran, of Thousand Oaks, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and nine great grandchildren.
      