
        David Budd, an abstract painter, died yesterday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 64 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said a former wife, Corcaita Christiani of Sarasota, who said he had been ill for some time.
        Mr. Budd was best known for enormous horizontal canvases covered with thousands of small, thick strokes of paint. Usually monochromatic, with black or dark blue being favorite shades, these strongly tactile surfaces combined aspects of Abstract Expressionism and Minimalism while also being indirectly naturalistic. Their shifting rhythms and often mesmerizing textures could evoke gently swelling waves, dunes or hills.
        Mr. Budd was born on March 31, 1927, in St. Petersburg, Fla. He studied at the Ringling School of Art and Design in Sarasota in the late 1940's, intending to become an architect, but he shifted to painting after he saw a film of the Abstract Expressionist Jackson Pollock at work. At first he remained in Florida, painting and supporting himself by working for the Christiani Brothers Circus, where he met Ms. Christiani, an equestrian ballerina.  First Solo Exhibition
        The couple moved to New York in 1952 and by the late 1950's Mr. Budd had developed his thick-surfaced monochrome style. He had his first solo exhibition at the Betty Parsons Gallery in 1958. He spent the early 1960's in Paris, where he exhibited at Galerie Stadler, including a show of paintings on which he collaborated with the writer William S. Burroughs. Mr. Burroughs later dedicated a book, "The Last Words of Dutch Schultz," to Mr. Budd.
        In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Budd had several solo exhibitions in New York City at the Tibor De Nagy Gallery, the Max Hutchinson Gallery and the Susan Caldwell Gallery. His work is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.
        Mr. Budd's marriage to Ms. Christiani ended in divorce, as did a second one. He is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, April Budd Thurber of Sarasota, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      