
        Jay Franklin Walz, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Thursday at Goodwin House, a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 83 years old and lived in Alexandria.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Walz's journalism career of more than four decades included work at The Washington Post and three foreign posts with The Times.
        Mr. Walz was born in South Bend, Ind., and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1929. His first job was at The South Bend News-Times. In 1935, he joined The Washington Post, where he worked as a reporter and editor.
        In 1943, Mr. Walz joined The Times's Washington bureau as assistant to the bureau manager. Fifteen years later, he was appointed correspondent in Turkey, then Egypt, from which he covered the Middle East.
        Mr. Walz covered the movement of United States marines into Lebanon in 1958, the attempted coup against Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia in 1960 and the aftermath of the Egyptian revolution, among other events.  Books on Mideast and Canada
        He also wrote a book about the region, "The Middle East," (Atheneum, 1965).
        Mr. Walz's last Times post was Ottawa, where he served from 1964 to 1973.  He and his wife, the former Audrey Boyers, wrote a book that blended history, geography and their observations of the region in "Portrait of Canada," (American Heritage Press, 1970). He retired in 1973.
        The Walzes also wrote two works of historical fiction, "The Bizarre Sisters" in 1950 and "The Undiscovered Country" in 1958 (Duell, Sloan & Pearce).
        In 1973, Mr. Walz retired to Greenfield, Mass., where he wrote a twice-monthly column for The Greenfield Recorder and played violin in the Pioneer Symphony Orchestra. In 1989, he moved to Alexandria. Mrs. Walz died in 1983.
        Mr. Walz is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Alexandria, and Terry, of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      