
        Gustave J. Dammin, a pathologist who helped in the first successful human kidney transplant and also did important research on Lyme disease and babesiosis, died Friday in Boston.
        Dr. Dammin, a resident of Weston, Mass., was 80 years old. His death, at Brigham and Women's Hospital, was caused by complications of prostate cancer, his family said.
        In 1954, Dr. Dammin was part of the team that performed the first kidney transplant. For years he was a leading authority on organ transplant pathology, which studies the compatibility of the new organ with the tissues of the host patient and the response of the immune system to the transplant.
        Later he studied Lyme disease and babesiosis, an illness similar to malaria. Dr. Andrew Spielman, discoverer of the deer tick that transmits the organisms that cause both diseases, named the tick Ixodes dammini in Dr. Dammin's honor.
        During World War II, Dr. Dammin won the Army's Legion of Merit award for his field and laboratory work on dysentery in Burma and India. He also served in Europe and Puerto Rico and was laboratory director for the Surgeon General. Later, as president of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board for 13 years, he won the Department of Defense medal for distinguished service.
        Born in the Bronx, Dr. Dammin earned his undergraduate and medical degrees at Cornell University and did postgraduate study in parasitology and tropical medicine at the University of Havana. He taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York. He then became chairman of pathology at Washington University School of Medicine and chief pathologist at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis.
        He then became chief pathologist at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston and professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School. After retirement from full-time work, he continued as a consultant and dean of archives at the hospital and a lecturer in tropical disease at the Harvard School of Public Health.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anita Coffin; his son, Dr. Tristram Dammin of Boston; two daughters, Susan Stone of Key West, Fla., and Abigail Camp of Boston, and four grandchildren.
      