
        Redd Foxx, a ground-breaking comedian best known for his portrayal of a curmudgeonly junk dealer in the 1970's televison series "Sanford and Son," died late Friday night in Los Angeles after suffering a heart attack on the set of his new television series. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Foxx collapsed during a rehearsal for the CBS series "The Royal Family," in which he and Della Reese starred. The series had its premiere on Sept. 18.
        He died at Queen of Angels Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center, a hospital spokesman said early yesterday.
        While Mr. Foxx was best known as the bow-legged, raspy-voiced star of "Sanford and Son," which ran from 1972 to 1977, he had had a long career on the black theater and cabaret circuit, where he was known as the dean of X-rated comedians.
        Long before Richard Pryor and others began skewering social taboos about sex, race and other delicate topics, Mr. Foxx was playing nightclubs and making 54 "party records" -- spoken comedy with no music -- a genre he claimed to have originated in 1956.
        "No one expected me to be on television because I had a reputation from the party records as X-rated, but that's the type of humor I liked," Mr. Foxx said in an interview in 1982. "That's the humor I heard in the ghettos. They didn't pull no punches, and they didn't want to hear about Little Boy Blue and Cinderella. So I gave them what they wanted. I busted loose."
        Mr. Foxx's real name was John Sanford. His televison character, Fred Sanford, was named for his brother.
        Born in St. Louis, Mr. Foxx grew up in Chicago in a poor family. His father left home, and Mr. Foxx ran away when he was 13.
        Even earlier, though, he had decided that he wanted to work in show business. When he was 7, he would tell jokes to relatives and friends. He began professional work as a teen-ager, playing in a washtub band on street corners and later moving to the black vaudeville circuit. Jail for Minor Offenses
        Success did not come easily. Mr. Foxx spent a considerable amount of time working as a dishwasher or sign painter in order to eat. For some years, show business dates alternated with brief jail sentences for such offenses as stealing a bottle of milk and sleeping in a hallway.
        In Harlem Mr. Foxx got the nickname "Red" because of his hair color and light skin, and he later added another "d." Sometimes he was called "Chicago Red" to differentiate him from his friend, "Detroit Red," the young Malcolm X.
        With the first of his party records, in 1956, Mr. Foxx began to be heard by larger audiences, eventually selling 20 million records. He was a bridge between a decades-old burlesque-show tradition of scatological party humor and a younger generation of comics and social satirists from Lenny Bruce to Andrew Dice Clay.
        It was not until the late 1960's that Mr. Foxx moved from black clubs to television and to clubs in Las Vegas, where he lived for many years.
        Mr. Foxx repeated his role as Fred Sanford in a series that ran in 1980 and 81. He starred in another comedy show in 1986, but nothing ever achieved the popularity of his first series, which also starred Demond Wilson as his son, Lamont.
        Despite his popular and financial success, Mr. Foxx often expressed bitterness about his career. He felt that he had been exploited by unscrupulous associates and victimized by racism in the entertainment industry.
        "I've been cheated more than most people because I'm gullible and I'm a target," he said. "My heart is open, and I listen to people and I believe their sob stories."
        A big spender who once owned a fleet of fancy cars, Mr. Foxx made millions of dollars from "Sanford and Son." But he filed for bankruptcy protection in 1983, citing mounting debts. Two years ago the Internal Revenue Service raided his Las Vegas home and took many possessions, claiming he owed nearly $3 million in taxes, penalties and interest.
        Mr. Foxx often feigned heart attacks as a comedy routine in the role of Sanford. When he collapsed on Friday, many in the cast first thought he was joking, then quickly realized he was ill. Earlier he had complained of chills.
        Slappy White, an early partner, accompanied other friends and relatives to the hospital. "He's going to be missed a great deal because he was pretty creative," Mr. White said. "The comedy world is going to miss him. He broke a lot of barriers."
        Bob Hope, who performed with Mr. Foxx in Vietnam in the late 1960's, called him "a natural comedian."
        And Ruth Brown, a rhythm and blues singer, credited Mr. Foxx with renewing her singing career after she had been working as a maid and busdriver.
        "Redd would do anything for a friend," she said. "He was constantly putting his arms out to help somebody."
        He is survived by his wife, Kahoe, of Los Angeles, and his mother Mary.
      