
        Victor L. Ridder Jr., president of a century-old publishing company for Roman Catholics in the New York region, and his wife, Mary Jane, died in an automobile accident last Sunday.
        Mr. Ridder, 49 years old, and Mrs. Ridder, 48, lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. They were killed in a collision when another car crossed over the median divider on a highway near Baltimore, relatives said. The couple was returning from Washington.
        Mr. Ridder was president of The Catholic News Publishing Company in New Rochelle. His ancestors in the Ridder family founded The Catholic News as a national newspaper in 1886. Later its focus was changed to the New York Archdiocese, and it ceased publication 10 years ago.
        The company continues to print other Catholic material, including a directory of priests and guide to church organizations in nine dioceses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Contributions Praised
        John Cardinal O'Connor of the New York Archdiocese was among about 2,000 mourners at the funeral on Thursday for the Ridders, who were involved in a wide range of Catholic activities. Speaking at the Saints John and Paul Church in Larchmont, N.Y., the Cardinal said the family's contributions to the archdiocese was unsurpassed.
        Both Mr. and Mrs. Ritter were born in Manhattan. He was a graduate of Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass., and held a master's degree in business administration from Iona College in New Rochelle. Mrs. Ridder was a graduate of the College of New Rochelle.
        He was president of Catholic Big Brother, chairman of the Catholic Commission on Scouting and a board member of the Center for Catholic Lay Leadership. She was the social minister for the Saints John and Paul parish, a patient advocate at two Catholic hospitals in the Bronx and a board member of Iona Preparatory School and the Rosalie Hall residence for unwed mothers.
        Mr. and Mrs. Ridder are survived by five children: Karen, Mark, Maureen and Victor L. 3d, all of New Rochelle, and Kristin Ridder Keith of Virginia Beach, Va.
        Mr. Ridder is also survived by six sisters, Alice Dailey of Litchfield, Conn., Kathleen Brunelli of Peekskill, N.Y., Mary Jane Ridder of Stamford, Conn., Rosemary Bohannon of Larchmont, Ann Jordan of Alexandria, Va., and Elizabeth Daily of Larchmont and a brother, Myles, of Larchmont.
        Mrs. Ridder is also survived by her father, Dr. Thomas Dwyer of Spring Lake Heights, N.J.; three brothers, Thomas Dwyer Jr. of Chicago, Brian of Burke, Va., Dr. Sean Dwyer of Bethesda, Md., and two sisters, Alice Ross of Golden's Bridge, N.Y., and Rita Hicks of Sea Girt, N.J.
      