
        Gregory Vlastos, a preeminent scholar on Socrates who transformed the analysis of classical philosophy, died Saturday at Alta Bates-Herrick Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        Dr. Vlastos died of cancer, his family said.
        A professor emeritus at both Princeton University and the University of California at Berkeley, Dr. Vlastos was widely respected as a teacher and thinker in philosophy.
        His studies culminated in his final book, "Socrates, Ironist and Moral Philosopher," published in June by Cornell University Press to widespread acclaim. A review in The New York Times called it "the best work available on its subject."
        Dr. Vlastos "transformed the way his subject was studied and taught," said Robert L. Meister, a friend and former student who is a professor of political philosophy at the University of California at Santa Cruz. He said Dr. Vlastos applied the analytical techniques of modern philosophy to restate and evaluate the views of Socrates and Plato. Critiques Were Prized
        Scholars and students prized Dr. Vlastos's critiques. Dr. Meister said, "He was the kind of professor who would explore your ideas more than you did yourself, write more on your paper than you did and show what you had said would really mean."
        During his career, Dr. Vlastos wrote several texts and edited more than 50 books. He served as president of the Eastern Division of the American Philosophical Association. Among his numerous awards and honors, he won two Guggenheim fellowships and was awarded the MacArthur Foundation fellowship in 1990.
        He was born in Istanbul, known then as Constantinople, where his family belonged to a small sect of Greek Protestants. He earned his undergraduate degree at the American-run Robert College in Istanbul. At the age of 18 he came to the United States to study.
        At the Chicago Theological Seminary, he earned a doctorate of divinity and was ordained as a Congregational minister, although he never became a pastor. Then he went to Harvard University to obtain a doctorate in philosophy.
        Dr. Vlastos taught at Queen's College in Kingston, Ontario, from 1931 to 1948, when he went to Cornell. After seven years there, he went to Princeton University, where he became chairman of the philosophy department and played a leading role in campus governance. Upon retiring from Princeton in 1976, he moved to Berkeley and taught there part time for more than a decade.
        In his personal views, Dr. Vlastos was outspoken for social change and progressive causes, including opposition to the Vietnam War and support of feminism.
        He is survived by a son, Stephen, of Iowa City, a daughter, Mari, of Berkeley, and a brother, Kimon, of Athens, Greece.
      