
        Thomas H. Eliot, a former Congressman, political science professor, university chancellor and a drafter of the Social Security Act, died Monday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Eliot, a liberal Democrat, championed the social programs of the New Deal and opposed the Special House Committee for the Investigation of Un-American Activities headed by Representative Martin Dies, Democrat of Texas.
        A grandson of Charles W. Eliot, a former president of Harvard, he graduated from Harvard in 1928, studied for a year at Cambridge University in England and received a law degree from the Harvard Law School in 1932.
        He then joined the Labor Department, where he was the chief architect of the Social Security Act. After its passage in 1935, he became general counsel to the board that directed Social Security.
        He served in Congress from 1941 to 1943, representing Cambridge and nearby areas. He subsequently lost the Democratic nomination to James Michael Curley after district boundaries were changed.
        During World War II, Mr. Eliot headed the London branch of the Office of War Information. He later joined the Boston law firm that became Foley, Hoag & Eliot.
        In 1952 he was named a professor and chairman of the political science department of Washington University in St. Louis. He served as dean, vice chancellor and then chancellor of the university, a post he held for nine years, until 1971.
        During the 1960's he was a member of the board of overseers at Harvard.
        From 1971 to 1976 he was president of the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies. The seminar brings potential European leaders in various fields to Salzburg, Austria, for short, intensive courses taught by American experts.
        From 1978 to 1986 he taught constitutional law and history at the Buckingham, Browne & Nichols School in Cambridge.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Lois Jameson; a son, Samuel A. of Diablo, Calif.; a daughter, Nancy Ulett of St. Louis; two brothers, Charles W. of Cambridge and Theodore L. of Belvedere, Calif; two sisters, Elisabeth McGiffert of Claremont, Calif., and Frances Fremont-Smith of Cambridge, and four grandchildren.
      