
        Tennessee Ernie Ford, the homespun television host and country and Western crooner whose 1955 recording of "16 Tons" became one of the biggest-selling records of all time, died yesterday at H. C. A. Reston (Va.) Hospital Center. He was 72 years old and lived in Portola Valley, near Palo Alto, Calif.
        Mr. Ford became ill at Dulles International Airport on Sept. 28 and was taken to Reston Hospital. A hospital spokeswoman, Claudia Smith, attributed his death to a longstanding liver ailment.
        As a television host, singer and comedian, Mr. Ford is best remembered for folksy phrases from his Tennessee upbringing, like "Bless your pea-pickin' hearts" and "Nervous as a long-tailed cat in a roomful of rockin' chairs."
        His rich bass-baritone, personable drawl, ingratiating smile and unhurried manner made him a popular network television star in the 1950's and 60's.  Church Singer in Childhood
        Ernest Jennings Ford was born on Feb. 13, 1919, in Bristol, Tenn. As a child he entertained at family gatherings and sang in the Methodist Church choir. After attending Virginia Intermount College, he got his first professional job with WOPI, the local radio station in Bristol, where he worked for $10 a week as a disk jockey to finance studies at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music.
        Mr. Ford served as a bomber navigator in the United States Army Air Corps during World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant.
        He became a disk jockey on the ABC radio network in 1952, and started on the NBC-TV summer program "The College of Musical Knowledge" in 1953.  That year he became the first country-music entertainer to perform at the Palladium in London.
        In 1956 Mr. Ford was hired by NBC-TV to be the host of "The Ford Show" on Thursday nights. The musical variety program was a staple of the NBC schedule until 1961. The show's title referred not to the singer but to the Ford Motor Company, the sponsor. The mustached, six-foot-tall host was informal and friendly, and ended each show with a hymn. The show was rated among the Top 10 in 1957. Shared the Microphone
        Mr. Ford recorded more than 80 albums during a career of more than 40 years. He also made records with many other singers, including Kay Starr, Helen O'Connell, Betty Hutton and Ella Mae Morse.
        In the years after his variety show ended, Mr. Ford appeared occasionally on television specials and toured as a country-music performer. In 1974, his was the first popular-music group to tour the Soviet Union under a United States-Soviet cultural exchange program.
        He received a Medal of Freedom Award from President Ronald Reagan.
        Last year Dinah Shore, George Gobel, Della Reese, the Everly Brothers, George Lindsey, Minnie Pearl and other performers paid tribute to his 50 years in show business in an hourlong cable-television special.  A Worldwide Hit
        Among Mr. Ford's most successful recordings were "Mule Train," "Smoky Mountain Boogie," "Shotgun Boogie, "I'll Never Be Free," "River of No Return," "The Ballad of Davy Crockett," "The Lusty Land," "Hogtied Over You," "Kiss Me Big," and "Softly and Tenderly."
        His biggest hit, "16 Tons," sold two million copies within nine weeks, and ultimately sold more than 20 million records worldwide. Mr. Ford took the song that Merle Travis had written and recorded in 1947 and sang it over what he called "a semi-rock-and-roll background." The song was a tribute to blue-collar workers, especially coal miners, with lines like "I owe my soul to the company store" and "another day older and deeper in debt."
        Although the record was released in 1955, Mr. Ford said in an interview last year that "it's an everlasting hit."
        "It seems that young marrieds and even high school kids know it," he added. "It caught on to every working man in the world, I guess."
        Mr. Ford's first wife, Betty, died in 1989. He is survived by his second wife, Beverly; two sons from his first marriage, Jeffrey and Brian, and a stepdaughter, Stevie.
      