
        Walter M. Elsasser, a Johns Hopkins University geophysicist who won a National Medal of Science in 1987 for his pioneering research in planetary magnetism, the movement of the earth's crust and other fields, died Monday in Baltimore. He was 87 years old.
        He died of old age, said a university spokesman, Lisa Hooker.
        Dr. Elsasser, a refugee from Nazi Germany, came to the United States in 1936. He taught and did research at various institutions and joined the Johns Hopkins department of earth and planetary sciences in 1975.
        In 1987, he was given an endowed chair, a Homewood Professorship, in that department. In recent years he had given up teaching and was doing only research. Discovering Magnetic Source
        Dr. Elsasser is said to have been one of the first to recognize that fluid motions within the earth's iron core arising from its cooling might be responsible for the earth's magnetic field -- the invisible magnetic force-field that surrounds the earth, much like the magnetic field around a bar magnet. .
        Prof. Bruce D. Marsh, the chairman of his department and himself a geophysicist, said Dr. Elsasser's research also helped establish the theory of plate tectonics and continental drift. That is, the theory explaining the process of the shifting of the continents across the earth's surface at velocities similar to the growth rate of one's fingernails.
        In addition, Dr. Elsasser did pioneer research in quantum machanics, the study of atomic processes that occur in jumps, rather than continuously.
        President Ronald Reagan lauded him as a hero of the modern age in presenting him with the medal, which he won for what a citation called his "fundamental and lasting contributions" to science.
        Dr. Elsasser was born in Mannheim, Germany and earned his doctorate in 1927 at the University of Frankfurt, where he worked until he left Germany.
        His books include "The Physical Foundation of Biology" (1958) and "Atom and Organism" (1966).
        His 1937 marriage to Margaret Trahey ended in divorce in 1961. His second wife, the former Suzanne Rosenfeld, whom he married in 1964, died.
        Surviving him are two children from his first marriage, a son, William Stephen Elsasser of Rohnert Park, Calif., and a daughter, Barbara Elsasser of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Maria Lindberg of Laguna Hills, Calif.
      