
        Dr. Howard R. Swearer, who became president of Brown University in troubled times but revitalized the campus and advanced its ranking as one of the nation's leading schools, died Saturday at home in Thompson, Conn.
        He was 59 years old and died of cancer, the university said.
        Under Dr. Swearer's leadership, from 1977 to 1988, Brown's deficit-ridden finances were reversed, its academic programs broadened, its international exchanges expanded and causes like volunteerism and sports reform promoted. He also faced campus issues of racism, sexism and freedom of expression. 'One of Brown's Greatest'
        "History will remember Howard as one of Brown's greatest and most beloved presidents," said Vartan Gregorian, the current president. He said Dr. Swearer led Brown "to an unprecedented level of national and international renown."
        Problems were evident on Dr. Swearer's first visit to the campus, in Providence, R.I., when he confronted a picket line of striking university workers. Dr. Swearer was a calming influence at the university, but he was not afraid of controversy.
        He denounced the abuse of athletic teams at some colleges, calling them farm clubs for professional teams. He upheld the disciplining of student protesters in 1981 for disrupting a lecture by William J. Casey, then Director of Central Intelligence, and again in 1984 for interrupting campus recruiting by the Central Intelligence Agency. Ties With Foreign Universities
        Under his academic leadership, Brown created centers for studying addiction to drugs and alcohol, women, population, world hunger, international health and other issues. The university forged ties with 38 foreign universities, including the first exchange between an American university and an East German one. Brown also set up the Thomas Watson Institute for International Studies, which Dr. Swearer headed after leaving the university presidency.
        Financially, Brown prospered under Dr. Swearer with balanced budgets. Its success at winning research grants more than tripled, its endowment, which had been dwindling, quadrupled, gifts rose seven-fold and an ambitious $158 million capital goal was exceeded by $23 million.
        The money enabled the construction of a new geology and chemistry building, two athletic buildings, an information technology center, an auditorium, health care studies center and music library addition and the purchase of computers for research. Degrees from Harvard
        Born in Kansas, Dr. Swearer earned his undergraduate degree at Princeton University and his master's and doctor's degrees at Harvard University, specializing in political science and Soviet affairs. He served two years in the Army, taught at the University of California at Los Angeles, ran Peace Corps training programs, worked for the Ford Foundation and for seven years was president of Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., before going to Brown in 1977.
        He was a board member of the Rhode Island Philharmonic, Textron Inc., and the Brookings Institution and was chairman of the Consortium on Financing Higher Education. In Rhode Island, he was also chairman of the Governor's Youth Service Commission and a Governor's commission to overhaul public school finances. An amateur potter, he was also president of the Rhode Island Public Expenditure Council.
        Survivors include his wife, Jan, and three children, Randolph of Austin, Tex., and Richard and Nicholas, both of Thompson.
      