
        Robert Jan Verbelen, a convicted Belgian Nazi war criminal who spent 10 years working for United States intelligence after World War II, died on Aug. 28 in Austria, the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith, which investigated his case, has announced. Mr. Verbelen was 79 years old and lived in Vienna, working as a speaker for neo-Nazi groups.
        No cause of death was given. Mr. Verbelen's funeral was attended by a muster of about 100 former SS troops and neo-Nazis, according to Austrian press accounts.
        In 1988 the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations said American intelligence agencies had employed Mr. Verbelen under a variety of pseudonyms from 1946 to 1956 without properly checking his identity. After his identity and criminal record came to light, the office's inquiry concluded, the Central Intelligence Agency sought to arrange his transfer to the West German intelligence service. But instead, he joined the Austrian State Police and became an Austrian citizen.
        In a telephone interview with The New York Times in 1984, Mr. Verbelen contended that the aliases had been given him by American superiors and that he had organized an American spy network of 100 Soviet-bloc agents in Vienna after the war. He denied complicity in any war atrocities.
        Mr. Verbelen, a commander of the Nazi-allied Flemish SS and SD, the storm troops and security service, was sentenced to death by a Belgian military court that convicted him in absentia in 1947 of responsibility for 101 murders and for the capture and torture of two American pilots. As an Austrian citizen, he staved off extradition to Belgium.
        In 1965 an Austrian jury found him guilty of inciting the murder of two people during the war, but then acquitted him on the ground of acting under orders. The acquittal was overturned by a higher court, but he was never retried.
        United States Army intelligence files say Mr. Verbelen was born in Belgium on April 5, 1911.
        There was no listing of any survivors. "With this we can at least close the book on Robert Verbelen," said Elliot Welles, director of the Anti-Defamation League's Nazi war criminals task force. He said the case pointed up "the shame of the American use of Nazi operatives and murderers during a period after the war."
        Correction:  January 9, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary headline yesterday about a convicted Belgian Nazi war criminal who spent 10 years working for United States intelligence after World War II misidentified him in some editions. He was Robert Jan Verbelen.
      