
        J. Graham Parsons, a retired career diplomat who was Ambassador to Laos and Sweden and Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, died on Sunday in Lyme, Conn. He was 83 years old and lived in Stockbridge, Mass.
        He died in his sleep while a guest in the house of friends, his daughter Margaret M. Hallett said. She said the cause of death was not immediately known.
        During his four-decade career, Mr. Parsons saw much turmoil, including banditry in China, insurgency in Laos and stone-throwing anti-American crowds in Sweden. He retired in 1972 and later argued in public that the primary role in appraising crisis-prone situations abroad should be played by American diplomats and not by American intelligence personnel using covertly amassed data.
        "A competent ambassador and his staff should be thorough students of the country and have ready, overt access to authoritative sources at all levels, representing all points of view," he wrote in late 1978 during furor over the Central Intelligence Agency's failure to predict the revolution in Iran. "Covert information may add, even importantly, to this, but it is no substitute." In Laos 1956-58
        It was in 1934 that Mr. Parsons emerged unscathed from a shootout between guards and bandits on a train he was riding through the far north of China while stationed in Tokyo.
        He later rode out controversy about his role as the Eisenhower Administration's envoy in what was then the kingdom of Laos, from 1956 to 1958, and as the Assistant Secretary for the Far East from 1959 to 1961.
        In March 1961, at the end of his time as Assistant Secretary, he declared on Capitol Hill that "the responsibility of the United States in Laos is indeed a very great one, and I hope there will be no misunderstanding of our firmness and steadiness."
        At the time, there had been serious fighting between troops of the pro-Western, United States-backed Laotian Government and pro-Communist rebels aided by the Soviet bloc. The historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., who served as an assistant to John F. President Kennedy, wrote in his 1965 book "A Thousand Days" that Mr. Parsons, who opposed neutralism in Laos, had "drastically misconceived the situation" there. In Sweden 1961-67
        Mr. Schlesinger also emphasized the important role that the C.I.A. played in Laos and wrote that conflict arose in which the C.I.A. was pitted against the State Department and the American Embassy in Laos, which fell to the Communist Pathet Lao in 1975. As far as is known, Mr. Parsons never commented specifically in public about these and other assertions by Mr. Schlesinger involving him.
        Mr. Parsons was Ambassador to Sweden from 1961 to 1967. He was deputy chairman of the United States delegation to the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks from 1970 to 1972.
        James Graham Parsons was born in Manhattan on Oct. 28, 1907. He graduated from the Groton School and from Yale College in 1929. He was private secretary to the Ambassador in Tokyo from 1932 to 1936. His later Foreign Service posts included Havana; Shenyang, Manchuria; Ottawa, and New Delhi.
        Mr. Parsons was married to Margaret Josephine Boulton in 1936. She died in 1987.
        In addition to Mrs. Hallett, of Hampton, Conn., he is survived by another daughter, Jane I. Lyons of Baltimore, seven grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      