
        Marshall E. Dimock, a political scientist who was an authority on public administration, died Thursday at Gifford Memorial Hospital in Randolph, Vt. He was 88 years old and lived in Bethel, Vt.
        He died as the result of a stroke he suffered at his home on Wednesday, said his son Davis Ludlow Dimock.
        Dr. Dimock also served as moderator of the Unitarian Universalist Association from 1961 to 1964, after its birth in 1961 through the merger of the American Unitarian Association and the Universalist Church of America. In that position he was the association's leading lay person.
        He was a professor and head of the Department of Government at New York University from 1955 to 1962, and in that post he argued, in a 1958 speech to a gathering of social workers, that more widespread individualistic thinking was necessary to escape what he called the ensnarement of bureaucracy.
        He also taught at the universities of California and Chicago, Northwestern University and elsewhere.
        Dr. Dimock was an assistant Secretary of Labor from 1938 to 1940 and held other Government posts in the 1940's. He also represented Bethel in the Vermont House in 1949 and 1950.
        He was author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than 40 books, some of them in collaboration with his second wife, Gladys Ogden Dimock. He was the sole author of "Business and Government," a college text, which first came out in 1949.
        He was also the author of "British Public Utilities and National Development" (1934), which was praised in The New York Times Book Review as "the first comprehensive analysis and general account of the ways in which the British have endeavored to solve the problems that have begun to appear in this country."
        Dr. Dimock's first marriage, to Lucy Butler Stotesbury, ended in divorce.  His second wife, Gladys Gouverneur Ogden, to whom he was married in 1940, died in 1989.
        In addition to Davis Ludlow Dimock, also of Bethel, who is a son from his second marriage, Dr. Dimock is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Dimock of San Bernardino, Calif.; a son from his first marriage, Mark W. Dimock of Newport, Ore.; a daughter from his first marriage, Marianne Dimock Brigham of Bethel; two grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      