
        Carl Winter, a Communist Party official and former editor who in 1949 was among the first group of defendants to be convicted under the Smith Act of conspiring against the United States Government, died Saturday in New York. He was 85 years old and lived in Detroit.
        He collapsed at the party's offices in Manhattan and died of a heart attack minutes after giving a speech, said a party spokesman, Si Gerson.
        Mr. Winter, the party chairman in Michigan, served a five-year sentence in Federal prisons. On release from the prison in Leavenworth, Kan., he was immediately rearrested on parallel charges. They were not dropped until 1963.
        The Smith Act, also known as the Alien Registration Act of 1940, made it a criminal offense to conspire to advocate violent overthrow of the Government or to organize or belong to any group that so conspired. After World War II, the act was used to prosecute ranking members of the American Communist Party.
        In July 1948, dual conspiracy and membership indictments were handed up against Mr. Winter, but the Federal District Court in Manhattan declined a Government motion to combine them in one trial. After nine months of testimony before Judge Harold J. Medina, Mr. Winter and 10 others were found guilty of conspiracy. Six more groups of alleged conspirators were awaiting trial at the time.
        The Supreme Court upheld the convictions of the 11 in 1951. When Mr. Winter emerged from prison in 1955, he and others were promptly arrested again on the membership indictments. While Mr. Winter remained free on bail, legal scholars questioned the arrest, and intellectuals petitioned President Dwight D. Eisenhower, noting that the defendants would be in double jeopardy as the case would largely echo the conspiracy prosecution.
        In a 1957 decision, the Supreme Court began to amend its 1951 judgment with a narrower reading of the Smith Act, and the Court's further modification of its position in 1963 led to the dropping of charges against Mr. Winter.
        Mr. Winter resumed his role as Michigan state chairman. He later was the party's Midwest director before becoming editor in chief of The Worker, the national party newspaper published in New York City, in 1966 and then co-editor of The World, its successor paper, now the People's Weekly World. Joined Party in 1925
        Born in Pittsburgh, he became a draftsman, joined the party in 1925 and turned full-time party functionary in 1931 as head of the Unemployment Council of Greater New York. He then held various other party positions in Cleveland, Los Angeles and elsewhere before becoming Michigan chairman in 1945.
        At the time of his death, he was a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party USA.
        Mr. Winter is survived by his wife, Helen, herself a Smith Act defendant and daughter of Alfred Wagenknecht, a charter member of the party in the United States. Also surviving are their daughter, Helen, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 21, 1991, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Carl Winter, a Communist Party leader who was convicted of conspiracy against the United States Government, misidentified his daughter. Her first name is Michele.
      