
        Jacob I. Hartstein, a leader in the expansion of Yeshiva College to a university and later the founding president of Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Hartstein died of a heart attack, his family said.
        As the first president of Kingsborough from 1964 to 1969, he helped plan its academic program, enrollment growth and campus at Oriental Beach on Coney Island. After leaving Kingsborough, he taught education at City College.
        During his time at Yeshiva, from the 1930's to 1953, he organized its change to university status, formally authorized by a charter change in 1945. He also helped in the formation of Yeshiva's medical school, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. In addition, he was an education professor at Yeshiva, served as director and dean of the graduate school and was registrar. Held Posts at L.I.U.
        While continuing his career at Yeshiva, he also held numerous posts at Long Island University from 1938 to 1964. He was a professor and chairman of psychology, professor and chairman of education, developer of the university's graduate studies in pyschology and education, founding dean of the School of Education and founding dean of the graduate school.
        Among the issues that concerned him as an educator were programs for the handicapped, the teaching of democratic values, raising teachers' pay, easing racial tensions and preserving academic freedoms.
        He was a founder and president of the Council of Higher Education Institutions in New York City, forged a coalition of city colleges in 1958 to help place student applicants, founded the National Association of Jewish Day School Principals and served on city and state advisory boards.
        He was a vice president of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue and was active in the Board of Jewish Education of New York, the National Board of License for Personnel in Jewish Schools, the Religious Zionists of America, the Jewish National Fund, the Higher Education Division of the United Jewish Appeal and the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. A Yeshiva Alumnus
        Born in Austria, Mr. Hartstein came to the United States with his family as a child. He was a member of Yeshiva's first graduating class, in 1932, and earned master's degrees from City College in 1933 and Columbia University in 1936 and a doctorate from New York University in 1945.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Florence Waldman; two sons, Kalman of Woodmere, L.I., Y., and Norman of Los Angeles; two grandchildren, and two brothers, Sam of Manhattan and Rabbi Abraham Hartstein of the Bronx.
      