
        Dr. Ernest Dichter, a psychologist and an expert on marketing, died on Thursday at the Hudson Valley Hospital Center outside Peekskill. He was 84 years old and lived in Peekskill.
        He died of heart failure, said his wife, the former Hedy Langfelder.
        Dr. Dichter was described in 1989 by the New York Times advertising columnist, Randall Rothenberg, as "the patron saint of motivational research, a school of consumer analysis that was once the rage in advertising."
        Dr. Dichter and his Institute for Motivational Research, with its headquarters in Croton-on-Hudson, gained a following in the 1950's. His underlying conviction was that Americans decide to buy things for reasons not necessarily directly connected to the product. Significance of Jell-O'A Tiger in Your Tank'
        A supervisor in early campaigns for products like Ivory, Esquire and Plymouth, he would gather focus groups who typified target communities, then conduct sessions to learn consumers' desires and dispositions to a product.
        Vance Packard, author of the 1957 best seller, "The Hidden Persuaders," said that for example, Dr. Dichter had advised the General Foods Corporation that advertisements depicting a variety of complicated molded Jell-O shapes made consumers feel inferior. The company changed its advertising to present Jell-O in simpler forms.
        Mr. Packard was a critic of the technique, arguing that "many of us are being influenced and manipulated far more than we realize in the patterns of our everyday lives." He likened motivational research to "the chilling world of George Orwell and his Big Brother."
        But Dr. Dichter said that what he practiced was persuasion, not manipulation. "Convincing people has been going on ever since the beginning of mankind," he said in a 1977 interview. "No one forces anyone to purchase a product or believe anything." Fled Nazism in 1938
        Born in Vienna, Dr. Dichter earned his doctorate at the University of Vienna, earned another degree at the Sorbonne and came to the United States to escape Nazism in 1938. He was semiretired at his death.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Fritz, of Vienna; a son, Dr. Thomas Dichter, an anthropologist, of Geneva; a daughter, Susan Diemond of Millbrook, and six grandchildren.
      