
        William G. Mulligan, a lawyer who aided the investigation that forced Mayor James J. Walker out of office in 1932 and who played an important role in the merging of New York City's subways, died on Thursday. He was 85 years old and lived in Panther Valley in Allamuchy Township, N.J.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Born in the Bronx, Mr. Mulligan grew up there and in Cliffside, N.J. He was a graduate of Hamilton College and Harvard Law School.
        As an assistant in Judge Samuel Seabury's investigation of municipal fraud, Mr. Mulligan publicly urged Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt to remove Mayor Walker from office after 15 charges of corruption were leveled against him. Mr. Walker resigned in 1932 before any action was taken against him. Won Subway Cases
        When Fiorello H. LaGuardia took over as the next elected Mayor in 1934, Mr. Mulligan went to work in the new administration. He specialized in transportation litigation and was credited with winning key court cases that finally enabled the city's long-sought acquisition and merger of the various private subways and bus lines.
        In 1940 he went into private practice and soon represented the local teachers' union against widely publicized charges of Communist infiltration leveled by state legislators and national union officers.
        His later clients included Sidney Ungar, a city contractor who paid for the remodeling of the home of Borough President Hulan E. Jack of Manhattan that led to Mr. Jack's conviction and removal from office. Mr. Mulligan also represented Samuel Garfield and Allen Roen against charges of a $5 million stock fraud at the United Dye and Chemical Company and of bribing a United States Senator. And he represented Martin Revson, the former executive vice president of Revlon, in a suit against his brother and company president, Charles.
        Much of Mr. Mulligan's later career specialized in matrimonial law. His clients included the conductor Leopold Stokowski in his marital difficulties with Gloria Vanderbilt. Sought Judicial Reform
        Mr. Mulligan lectured and wrote on the law, including a book on examining expert witnesses. He was a proponent of revising divorce laws to reflect the principle of equitable distribution. He also advocated judicial reform.
        At the time of his death he was counsel to the Manhattan firm of Grier Raggio and also practiced law with his wife, Elinor Patterson Mulligan, in Hackettstown, N.J.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters by previous marriages, Maura Benjamin, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Luciel Mulligan, of San Francisco, and four stepchildren, Amy O'Connor of Jersey City, Christopher Mulligan and Christine Fulena of Washington, and Valerie Park of Chatham, N.J.
        Correction:  November 27, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about William G. Mulligan, a lawyer who aided the investigation that forced Mayor James J. Walker of New York out of office in 1932, misidentified two of Mr. Mulligan's surviving stepchildren. They are Christopher O'Connor and Valerie Clark. The obituary also misstated Mr. O'Connor's residence. It is Catonsville, Md.
      