
        Ellis R. Kolchin, a pioneer in the field of differential algebra and a Columbia University professor for 50 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.
        Dr. Kolchin died of pancreatic cancer, said his son, Peter of Newark, Del.
        "He shaped the course of differential algebra and brought it into the mainstream of mathematics," said the preface to a 1976 Festschrift -- a collection of articles by colleagues honoring a noted scholar -- on the occasion of Dr. Kolchin's 60th birthday.
        Struggling yesterday to define for a layman the esoteric field of differential albegra, William Sit, a mathematics professor at City College and former student of Dr. Kolchin, said: "Differential algebra studies the abstract properties of variables and how they relate through their rates of change. In the field of physics, examples of such relationships would be the motion of subatomic particles around a nucleus or the way waves break at the seashore." 'Pupil and Successor'
        Samuel Eilenberg, professor emeritus of mathematics at Columbia, described Dr. Kolchin as "pupil and successor to Joseph Fells Ritt, the founder of differential algebra." He added, "For years and years he ran a seminar every Thursday, and they came from all over to be there."
        A native of New York City, Dr. Kolchin earned his bachelor's degree in 1937 and his doctorate in 1941, both from Columbia. During World War II, he served in naval intelligence.
        After returning to Columbia, he was appointed an associate professor in 1950 and a full professor in 1958, then served as mathematics chairman from 1963 to 1968. The author of dozens of articles and two books, Dr. Kolchin was twice a Guggenheim Fellow. He also served as a visiting professor at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, at the Sorbonne and at several other universities.
        Fluent in Russian, Dr. Kolchin fostered contacts with Soviet scientists during the height of the cold war and, in 1965, was an exchange lecturer in the Soviet Union.
        Besides his son, Dr. Kolchin is survived by his wife, Kate; a daughter, Ellen of Lawrence, Kan., and two grandsons.
      