
        Klaus Kinski, an actor acclaimed for playing obsessive, demented characters in the films of the German director Werner Herzog, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Lagunitas, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Preliminary autopsy results suggested that Mr. Kinski "apparently died of natural causes due to a heart problem," a spokeswoman for the Marin County coroner's office said.
        Mr. Kinski's reputation rests on a handful of films he made with Mr. Herzog in the 1970's and early 1980's, works that took advantage of Mr. Kinski's hawkish features and demonic gaze. Conquistador to Vampire
        The actor and the director fought bitterly during the filming of their first movie together, "Aguirre: The Wrath of God" (1972), in which Mr. Kinski played a mad 16th-century Spanish conquistador. But they went on to make several more. In "Nosferatu, the Vampyre" (1978), a remake of F. W. Murnau's 1922 classic, Mr. Kinski brought a droll sensibility, sexual aura and sympathetic undertone to the vampire's role.
        His other films for Mr. Herzog included the title roles in "Woyzeck" (1978) and "Fitzcarraldo" (1982), the story of a man obsessed with building an opera house in the Amazon jungle. Image as a Hedonist
        Mr. Kinski began his career onstage and in bit parts in German films in the late 1940's, and was a minor player in dozens of films throughout his career, including "Dr. Zhivago" and "The Little Drummer Girl." But in his other roles he never achieved the artistic respect or on-screen prominence he had with Mr. Herzog. In 1989, he wrote, directed and starred in a film that has never been released, "Paganini," a sexually explicit biography of the Romantic violinist and composer.
        "When I play a character, even if he's the most despicable person in the world, I
        become
        him for the duration of the production," Mr. Kinski said in 1979. In his personal life and his screen roles, he cultivated an image as a hedonist who defied social conventions. His autobiography, "All I Need Is Love: A Memoir," was an unapologetic catalogue of sexual conquests of women and teen-age girls, and of drug and alcohol use.
        Random House bought the American rights to the book from Mr. Kinski for $80,000, and published it in December 1988. The book was recalled within weeks, however, when Random House discovered that its West German publisher, and not Mr. Kinski, owned the rights to some of the material.
        Mr. Kinski, whose name originally was Nikolaus Gunther Nakszynski, was born in Poland in 1926, though the family moved to Germany when he was a boy. In World War II, he enlisted in the German army at the age of 16, and on his second day of combat was captured in the Netherlands. He spent the rest of the war in a British prisoner-of-war camp.
        He married for the first time in the 1950's. His second wife, Ruth Brigitte Tocki, was the mother of his daughter, the actress Nastassja Kinski. He is also survived by his third wife, Minhoi Wiggers, and a son, Nanhoi.
      