
        Norman B. Norman, a retired New York advertising man and marketing consultant, died on Tuesday at the Miami School of Medicine hospital in Miami. He was 77 years old and lived in Key Largo, Fla.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Norman was a founder and longtime chief executive of Norman, Craig & Kummel and its worldwide parent firm, the NCK Organization. Most of the agency's billings originated abroad, but its American clients included Colgate-Palmolive, Revlon, Ronson, Chanel, Liggett & Myers and Olin.
        In 1979, when he turned 65, Mr. Norman retired as president and chairman of the board and became honorary chairman. He remained active in that position until 1985. A Start at the Bottom
        A native of New York City, Mr. Norman attended Columbia University, where he graduated in 1934. He began his career in advertising as an unpaid assistant to an executive at the Biow Agency on Madison Avenue, living on prize money he had won for history work at Columbia.
        By the end of six months, he was making $5 a week, and by the end of the second year, $25.
        Mr. Norman set up a research department at the agency, then moved into its new-business and account-management sectors. He left Biow in 1942 and joined the Navy, where he spent three years on a minesweeper, rising to the rank of lieutenant and winning a Bronze Star.
        After the war, he went to work for Norman A. Mack & Company as executive vice president. In 1948, he moved to William H. Weintraub & Company, which had just received the Revlon account.
        At Weintraub, he became acquainted with two other vice presidents, Eugene H. Kummel and Walter Craig. The men pooled their resources in 1955, bought into the agency and put their names on it.
        When he was elected president of the agency two years later, Mr. Norman spelled out the formula his employees intended to follow: "We call it empathy and we are serious about it. We like to think of it as emotional advertising or emotional reason-why. We contend that advertising begins and ends with people."
        Mr. Norman's success was evident in the places his family kept besides the Manhattan apartment: in Woodstock, Vt., in Fairfield, Conn., in the Cotswolds of England and at the Ocean Reef Club in Key Largo.
        He was a director of the Association for a Better New York and a trustee of the executive commission of the New York Police Foundation.
        Mr. Norman is survived by his wife, the former Gail Snyder; a son, Peter, of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Susan Blumenthal of Dover, N.H., and one granddaughter.
      