
        Msgr. James A. Healy, a Buffalo priest, economist and one of the country's best known labor mediators, died on Wednesday at Sisters of Charity Hospital in Buffalo after a three-week illness. A lifelong resident of Buffalo, he was 71 years old.
        In the course of some four decades, Monsignor Healy was in the middle of countless contract disputes, hundreds of them involving public employees. He also sat on fact-finding panels and, from 1977 until his retirement two years ago, served as chairman of the New York State Mediation Board.
        He was appointed to the state Public Employment Relations Board as a mediator in 1968, engaging in many tense negotiations whenever local governments and their workers came to an impasse over settlement terms.
        In 1982, he was named president of the Association of Labor Relations Agencies, an umbrella organization for private and public agencies at all levels of government engaged in labor-management bargaining. Denounced Hoffa>
        So intense was his commitment to his chosen metier that he became known as Buffalo's "labor priest." The term gained wide currency in 1959 after he angrily denounced James R. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and some of his lieutenants as "parasites" and "outsiders" to the labor movement because they had never served an apprenticeship and knew no craft.
        Monsignor Healy took part in a fruitless effort to head off a strike by the United Federation of Teachers in New York City in 1975. Two years later, as the newly appointed head of the mediation board, he guided talks in a dispute between the Metropolitan Opera and its musicians, who were threatening to strike.
        He was the chief mediator in a wildcat strike of school-bus drivers that deprived some 133,000 public school students of their usual transportation in 1979. At the same time, he helped head off a simultaneous walkout by custodial workers in the schools.
        The monsignor was highly visible in New York City again in 1983 when the orchestra of the City Opera went on strike in a particularly bitter quarrel and stayed out for more than seven weeks. The opera management, then headed by Beverly Sills, responded with a de facto lockout, and the season, scheduled to start on July 7, did not get under way until the third week of September.
        One of the last well-publicized disputes entrusted to his skill in the city was the 1985 walkout by 16,000 workers against 53 hotels. Monsignor Healy was called in because the strike was seriously affecting the city's economy.
        Asked once about a Papal edict against priests becoming involved in politics, Monsignor Healy said, "I'm not in politics, my job is to be a peacemaker, to settle strikes."
        He was born in Buffalo and was ordained in 1944 at St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester. Pope John XXIII named him a monsignor in 1959.
        Over the years, he taught economics at several church-affiliated colleges and, from its beginnings in 1950, was chaplain of the St. Joseph Guild, a lay group dedicated to ethics in labor relations. The Diocese of Buffalo registered him as a priest on "special assignment" for many years.
        Monsignor Healy is survived by three sisters, Patricia Corcoran and Mary Alice Powers of Orchard Park, N.Y., and Eileen Brady of Rockville, Md.
      