
        Ralph Bellamy, a veteran character actor who appeared in more than 100 movies but who attained his greatest recognition on Broadway as the stricken Franklin D. Roosevelt struggling to walk in "Sunrise at Campobello," died yesterday at St. Johns Hospital and Health Center in Los Angeles. He was 87 years old.
        He had been hospitalized this month with a longstanding lung illness, said Pat Kirk, a spokeswoman for the hospital.
        Mr. Bellamy, a tall man with a craggy face and a resonant voice, performed in nearly all mediums: the Chautauqua circuit, tent shows, stock, repertory, Broadway, radio, movies and television.  Usually Lost the Girl
        In Hollywood, he was the leading man in many low-budget action movies and appeared in supporting roles in many major films, often as an amiable bumpkin who lost the girl, usually to Cary Grant. He played that role to perfection in such comedies as "Hands Across the Table" (1935), "The Awful Truth" (1937), "Carefree" (1938) and "His Girl Friday" (1940).
        Mr. Bellamy then gained major stature on the Broadway stage: as an antifascist professor in the 1943 melodrama "Tomorrow the World," by James Gow and Arnaud d'Usseau; as a lionized Presidential aspirant in Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse's 1945 Pulitzer Prize-winning comedy "State of the Union"; as an overzealous police officer in Sidney Kingsley's 1949 drama "Detective Story," and as Roosevelt in the 1958 play "Sunrise at Campobello" by Dore Schary, for which Mr. Bellamy won many honors, including the Tony and Drama Critics best-actor awards.
        Despite his many film roles, he was passed over by Hollywood for the film versions of the first three plays. But his luminous stage performance so dominated "Sunrise at Campobello" that he won the part in the 1960 movie. In 1983, he played Roosevelt once again in the television miniseries "The Winds of War."
        Mr. Bellamy prepared carefully for every assignment, but he was more careful than ever in readying himself for "Sunrise at Campobello," which dealt with Roosevelt's 1921-24 battle with polio and his struggle to resume an active life. The actor, himself a New Deal Democrat, read voluminously about the President, studied recordings of his voice and consulted at length with Mrs. Roosevelt and her children.
        He attended classes in physical therapy, learning to crawl while supporting himself with his hands and arms and holding his legs limp. He learned to walk with crutches and leg braces and did daily calisthenics to keep fit. In performing, he made use of the familiar pince-nez, cigarette holders and jaunty hats, but was at pains to suggest Roosevelt rather than to imitate him.  Starred in Early TV Series
        On television, Mr. Bellamy appeared in all the leading dramatic programs, beginning in the early 1950's. From 1949 to 1954 he was a quick-fisted but otherwise affable private detective in "Man Against Crime," the first live weekly half-hour dramatic show on network television. His other television series included "The 11th Hour" (1963-64), "The Most Deadly Game" (1970) and "The Hunter" (1976).
        Mr. Bellamy was also known for championing his profession, as a founder and board member of the Screen Actors Guild and as president of Actors' Equity for 12 years. He doubled Equity's assets within six years, and in 1960 shepherded the union through a one-week Broadway theater lockout and the signing of a landmark contract that established the first actors' pension fund.
        Asked to define his goals for Equity, he replied, "To put the union on a business basis and achieve intramural unity."
        Mr. Bellamy guided Equity through the political blacklisting of the McCarthy era in the early 1950's by forming a panel that devised ground rules to protect members against unproven charges of Communist Party membership or sympathy.
        He also presided over the merger of Actors' Equity and Chorus Equity and the unionizing of the Off Broadway theater. He lobbied successfully for the repeal of theater admission taxes and for income-averaging in computing taxes for performers who earn large sums in some years and only meager income in others.
        When he declined to be drafted for an unprecedented fifth term as president of Equity, members awarded him the lifetime title of president emeritus, and 122 of them signed a public letter expressing their "deepest thanks" for his "dignity, integrity, prestige and sense of responsibility." The signatories included Lillian Gish, Margaret Hamilton, Raymond Massey, Agnes Morehead and Pat O'Brien.  Midwestern Upbringing
        Ralph Rexford Bellamy was born in Chicago on June 17, 1904, the eldest of three children of Charles Rexford Bellamy, who headed his own advertising agency, and the former Lilla Louise Smith. As a boy, he delivered newspapers and groceries, jerked sodas at a drugstore and was an usher at a movie theater. He attended New Trier High School in Winnetka, Ill., and was president of its drama club.
        After graduating, he began an intensive theater apprenticeship: loading and unloading props and scenery, designing sets, managing, producing and directing, in addition to acting. He won his first major roles touring in "The Shepherd of the Hills," an Ozark melodrama, playing both the hero's father with a gray wig and beard and the villain with a black beard. "It must have been awful," he said years later.
        During nine years in repertory and touring companies he played more than 400 roles, often two or three in the same play, including four years (1926 to 1930) as head of his own repertory troupe, the Ralph Bellamy Players, in Des Moines, Nashville and Evanston, Ill. The critic Walter Kerr -- who as a student at Northwestern University had been a regular at the Evanston theater -- praised Mr. Bellamy in 1979 as "the only performer who ever surprised us by altering character radically from play to play."
        After those apprenticeship years, Mr. Bellamy appeared in two forgettable plays on Broadway, "Town Boy" and "Roadside." They had minuscule runs, but he got good notices, and contract offers from four Hollywood studios. He made 83 movies over the next 12 years, including "Spitfire" (1934), "The Wedding Night" (1935), "Boy Meets Girl" (1938), "Dive Bomber" (1941) and "The Wolf Man" (1941). He also played the title role in four low-budget "Ellery Queen" detective mysteries.  Films Were 'Just a Living'
        A turning point occurred in 1942 when he spotted a script on a producer's desk with this notation: "Wealthy oilman from Southwest -- able, but simple and naive. Typical Ralph Bellamy part." "I realized then," he said later, "that for me, Hollywood had become just a living, and acting just a chore. It was a good living and a pleasant chore, but it had no meaning anymore. I had to get out."
        He left Hollywood at the height of a lucrative career to face the risks of Broadway, and proceeded to achieve a string of stage and television successes that he valued as far more varied and rewarding than his early films.
        He also made occasional movies during those years, playing a canny defense counsel in "The Court-Martial of Billy Mitchell" (1955) and a satanic doctor in "Rosemary's Baby" (1968). In 1987, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presented him with an honorary Oscar for his body of work.
        Among his recent films were "Trading Places" (1983), with Eddie Murphy, Dan Aykroyd and Don Ameche, and "Pretty Woman" (1990), with Julia Roberts and Richard Gere.  Fondest of the Stage
        He enjoyed working in movies and television, but his deepest affection was for the theater because of the presence of the audience, which, he said, was "like meeting a new person each performance."
        His autobiography, "When the Smoke Hit the Fan," was published in 1979.
        Mr. Bellamy's first three marriages, to Alice Delbridge, Catherine Willard and the organist Ethel Smith, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, Alice, a talent agent whom he married in 1949; a daughter, Lynn McCrudden of New York City, and a sister, Carolyn Walbridge of Newport Beach, Calif.
      