
        William Olsten, a pioneer in the temporary-employment business, died early Sunday at his home in Old Westbury, L.I. He was 72 years old.
        A company announcement said he died unexpectedly in his sleep of natural causes.
        Last year in March, Mr. Olsten stepped down as chief executive officer but remained active as chairman of the Olsten Corporation, which he founded 40 years earlier. Starting with a one-man office in New York City, he expanded to open branches in every state.
        Olsten, based in Westbury, now has more than 700 offices throughout North America with revenues of about $1 billion a year, making it the third largest company in the temporary-service industry. As of last year, the Olsten family owned 38 percent of the company's stock, which is traded on the American Stock Exchange. Stuart Olsten, Mr. Olsten's son, became president and chief operating officer in last year's realignment. Started Business in 1950
        William Olsten set up shop in 1950 in an office on West 42d Street at the heart of surging demand for women to do office work. The part-timers filled in as clerks, typists, receptionists and legal secretaries.
        Mr. Olsten soon barraged prospects with classified and subway advertising. He even tried "interview mobiles" -- station wagons emblazoned with enticements -- to scout the Bronx, Brooklyn and Queens. The company grew with the industry as it broadened into new categories for technical personnel, sales, professional services, skilled and unskilled labor, data and word processing and, eventually, staff leasing.
        At the start of World War II, he had just begun to work in the General Motors assembly plant in Tarrytown, N.Y., which no longer built Chevrolets but made Avenger torpedo bombers instead. Mr. Olsten oversaw left-wing assemblies, supervising mostly female workers whom he trained.
        In 1943, he was drafted and ended up with the Third Army in Europe. After the war, Mr. Olsten, a civilian once again, worked in sales and marketing for a company that made caps for milk containers.
        Then he heard about the demand for office temporaries and decided to strike out on his own. "It wasn't an industry then," he later noted of the business. "It was just getting off the ground."
        Mr. Olsten grew up in Yonkers and attended New York University's School of Commerce, graduating in 1951.
        In addition to his son, a resident of Jericho, L.I., Mr. Olsten's survivors include his wife, Miriam; a daughter, Cheryl Ashburn of Doylestown, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      