
        Dr. R. Adams Cowley, whose pioneering development of modern emergency medicine helped save countless thousands of lives around the world, died Sunday at his home in Baltimore.
        He was 74 years old and died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Cowley coined the term "the golden hour" for his concept of quickly treating injuries before potentially fatal damage from shock affects body organs.
        His work began with physiological research on how shock deprives tissues and organs of vital oxygen. But he went on to apply his findings to help develop treatments and entire systems of emergency care, complete with high-speed transportation of victims. An International Model
        Starting modestly with a two-bed project at the University of Maryland in 1961 that grew to a 138-bed shock and trauma center bearing his name, he eventually organized a statewide system incorporating 50 hospitals, 10 trauma centers, 450 ambulances and a fleet of evacuation helicopters.
        Maryland's system stands as an international model for emergency medicine. William Metcalf, associate executive director of the American College of Emergency Physicians, said Dr. Cowley "really was the father of many of the things we do today."
        In the old days, "they'd scrape you off the highway, put you in a hearse and take you to the closest hospital," and it "wouldn't be ready for you," Dr. Cowley was quoted as saying in the book "Shocktrauma" (St. Martin's Press, 1980).
        In his effort to change things, Dr. Cowley presented a report to the National Academy of Sciences in 1966 titled "Accidental Death and Disability: the Neglected Disease of Modern Society." Trauma, from accidents and violence, is the leading cause of death for Americans from the ages of 1 to 44.
        Today specially trained and equipped ambulance crews begin medications and procedures as soon as they pick up patients, using devices like cardiac monitors with printouts that are tracked by doctors at the hospital.
        In 1986, President Ronald Reagan and Congress created the National Study Center for Trauma and Emergency Medical Systems in Baltimore, with Dr. Cowley as director.
        Besides his work in emergency medicine, Dr. Cowley was also a noted heart surgeon. He was among the first to perform open-heart surgery, devised a surgical clamp named after him and helped design a prototype pacemaker used by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Subject of TV Film
        Dr. Cowley wrote numerous articles and books and was the subject of a 1982 television film, "Shocktrauma," with his part played by William Conrad.
        Dr. Cowley was born in Layton, Utah. His father, a pharmacist, founded Kowley Drug Stores. Dr. Cowley was a graduate of the University of Utah and the University of Maryland Medical School.
        While serving as chief of surgery for the United States Army in France and Germany in 1946 and 1947, he observed European surgeons and was impressed with their speed and success in operating on patients.
        He is survived by his wife, Roberta; a son, R. Adams Cowley 2d of Baltimore; a daughter, Kay Cowley Pace of Santa Cruz, Calif.; three grandchildren and 11 great grandchildren.
      