
        Dr. Frederick Hartt, a widely published scholar of Renaissance art who became embroiled in a dispute over a small plaster statue that he said was the model for Michelangelo's David, died yesterday at the Washington Hospital Center. He was 77 years old and lived in Washington.
        Dr. Hartt died of complications after triple bypass surgery, said his companion, Eugene D. Markowski.
        Born in Boston in 1914, Dr. Hartt graduated from Columbia College in 1935. He did graduate work at Princeton University and earned a doctorate at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
        Of the many teaching positions he held, the most important were at Washington University in St. Louis; the University of Pennsylvania, where he was chairman of the art department from 1960 to 1965, and the University of Virginia, where he headed the art department from 1967 to 1976.
        He wrote 14 books, the most important of which are "Michelangelo: The Complete Sculpture" (1969), "Art, a History of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture" (1976) and "Michelangelo's Three Pietas" (1976), all published by Harry N. Abrams. His latest work, "The Sistine Chapel," is to be published on Nov. 10 by Alfred A. Knopf. A Statue and a Lawsuit
        Dr. Hartt first learned of the plaster statue -- a scorched headless torso -- in 1986 from Michel de Bry, a Paris art dealer who had been given the statue by the daughter of the Swiss composer Arthur Honegger. Honegger had believed the statue to be a copy rather than an original, his daughter, Pascale Honegger, said, but Dr. Hartt said later that he immediately thought it to be genuine.
        "It didn't take me more than a minute before I realized what this thing had to be," he said. "I started to tremble, the discovery was so great."
        In March 1987, he presented his findings at the New York Academy of Sciences, where several other scholars confirmed his judgment.
        In December 1989, Dr. Hartt was awarded $12,000 in damages in an English High Court in a libel case against The Independent after that newspaper published an article implying that he acted recklessly and dishonestly in attributing the plaster statue to Michelangelo. If authentic, the statue could be worth as much as $80 million.
        In making the ruling, however, the judge substantially reduced the damages, saying that Dr. Hartt had acted dishonorably in accepting a commission on the sale of the statue after his writings about it were published. The judge said he did not question the integrity of Dr. Hartt's scholarship in his book "David -- By the Hand of Michelangelo: The Original Model Discovered."
        There are no survivors.
      