
        Richard Maibaum, who wrote or co-wrote the screenplays for a dozen James Bond films, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Early in the James Bond series, Mr. Maibaum remarked that the hugely popular movies about British secret agent 007 were really parodies of the Ian Fleming novels on which they were based. A Sleuth With Humor
        In an article he wrote after the first three adaptations, "Dr. No" (1963), "From Russia With Love" and "Goldfinger" (both 1964), he said that the movie character James Bond, played by Sean Connery, retained Mr. Fleming's image of a "super sleuth, super fighter, super hedonist, super lover," but that the film makers "added another large dimension: humor."
        "Humor vocalized in wry comments at critical moments," he said. "In the books, Bond was singularly lacking in this."
        Mr. Maibaum started his career as a playwright and actor. He was born in New York, attended New York University and then studied dramatic art the University of Iowa, where he received bachelor's and master's degrees and wrote plays, one of which, "The Tree," an anti-lynching play, was produced on Broadway.
        Returning to New York, he acted with the Shakespearean Repertory Theater in 1933, and wrote two more plays for Broadway, "Birthright," an anti-Nazi drama, and "Sweet Mystery of Life," a comedy. He then got a contract as a writer for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in Hollywood. While there, he wrote another play, "See My Lawyer," which was produced in New York by George Abbott and which starred Milton Berle. Invited by Producer
        Mr. Maibaum worked with film while serving in the Army during World War II, then became a writer and producer for Paramount from 1945 to 1951. He moved to England in the 1950's to work for the producer Albert Broccoli's Warwick Films, returned to the United States and wrote for television, then was invited by Mr. Broccoli to write the first Bond movie.
        He wound up writing most of them, including "Thunderball," "On Her Majesty's Secret Service," "Diamonds Are Forever," "Octopussy," "For Your Eyes Only," "The Living Daylights" and "Licence to Kill."
        He is survived by his wife, Sylvia; two sons, Matthew and Paul, of Los Angeles; a sister, Gladys Gould of Washington, and a granddaughter.
      