
        Yves Montand, the French actor and singer whose political views and passionate affairs stirred as much controversy as his film roles and songs won him popularity, died near Paris today. He was 70 years old.
        He apparently suffered a heart attack while working on his latest film on location in Senlis and died at the local hospital.
        His death came as a shock to the French public, which over four decades had grown accustomed to following his life, his loves and his opinions on everything from regional cooking to third world immigration.
        As an artist, he will be remembered for songs like "Autumn Leaves" and "The Urchins of Paris" and for his roles in Henri-Georges Clouzot's "Wages of Fear," Costa-Gavras's "Z" and "The Confession," and Claude Berri's "Jean de Florette" and "Manon of the Spring." His Best-Known Liaisons
        But his name also will always be widely associated with three women -- the singer Edith Piaf, who turned him into a music hall star, the actress Simone Signoret, to whom he was married for 36 years until her death in 1985, and Marilyn Monroe, with whom he had a much-publicized affair in 1960.
        Such was his following in France that in 1988 he was mentioned as a possible presidential candidate. By then, the man who for 25 years had been a darling of the French left had swung dramatically to the right, as ready to denounce Communism as to praise Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher.
        His popularity survived his travels through passion and politics because his ability to charm the French -- and a good many foreigners -- never faltered. In recent years, his hair thinning and his face wrinkled, he exuded the air of a favorite uncle who would always be around.
        While he came to personify the quintessential French romantic, half-adventurer, half-intellectual, he was in fact born an Italian -- Ivo Livi by name -- at Monsummano Alto, Tuscany, on Oct. 13, 1921, just two years before the rise of Fascism prompted his father to migrate to France. Working-Class Roots
        Brought up in a working-class family in Marseilles, he left school at the age of 11 and worked in factories, bars and a hair salon while dreaming of a career in entertainment. He performed for the first time on an amateur night in a local theater when he was just 17. By the time he was in his early twenties, he had taken the name Yves Montand and was singing in Paris.
        But the turning point came when he was spotted by Edith Piaf. They fell in love and lived together for two years. In the meantime, she not only put his name up in lights but launched his movie career in 1946. They made several films together, but when Clouzot cast him in "Wages of Fear" in 1953, he became a star in his own right.
        Soon afterward, he met and married Miss Signoret. As a singer he continued to flourish, thanks to his skill in combining his smooth baritone voice with appealingly poetic lyrics and light-footed dance routines. As an actor, he was making one or more films every year, many not memorable, although "Goodbye Again" stood out.
        Miss Signoret drew Mr. Montand into the intense Parisian world of leftist politics and, though he never formally joined the French Communist Party, he cheerfully described himself as a fellow traveler. Indeed, shortly after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956, the couple made a much-publicized -- and highly-criticized -- tour of the Soviet Union. Cukor's 'Let's Make Love'
        Remarkably, though, this did not prevent him from making his first singing tour of the United States in 1959. Such was his success on stage and television that he was invited the following year to star in George Cukor's "Let's Make Love" alongside Marilyn Monroe. The film would be remembered more for what happened off-screen.
        With Miss Monroe's husband, Arthur Miller, and Miss Signoret away, the two stars found themselves alone on location and a torrid affair followed. "I was crazy about my wife, but what can you do?" Mr. Montand recalled with a very French shrug in an interview with The New York Times in 1988. Still more embarrassing, this was no secret affair.
        In the interview, Mr. Montand said Miss Signoret gave the best answer when she was asked by an English newspaper what her husband was up to. "She said, 'Tell me, do you know who could resist if they took Marilyn Monroe into their arms?' It was a wonderful answer for Simone but, for me, for years, oh brother!"
        By the mid-1960's, when he starred in Alain Resnais's "La Guerre Est Finie" ("The War Is Over") about a disillusioned veteran of the Spanish civil war, his own political disillusionment was growing. After the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, he turned away from what he saw as the ever-Stalinist French left.
        In 1969, with "Z," he began a long association with Costa-Gavras that would also produce "State of Siege" in 1973. For Mr. Montand though, the most important movie was "The Confession" in 1970, in which he played a loyal Czechoslovak Communist who becomes the victim of a Stalinist purge. More Than 50 Films
        Throughout the 1970's and 1980's, while making occasional singing tours, he continued to appear in films most years, starring alongside Catherine Deneuve, Shirley MacLaine and Barbara Streisand. In his entire career, he made more than 50 movies. He was particularly acclaimed in 1986, though, for his role as a manipulative Provencal farmer in the film versions of Marcel Pagnol's twin novels, "Jean de Florette" and "Manon of the Spring."
        At the time, he spoke uncomfortably about playing the part of an old man, but there were other signs that he was old enough to be considered an institution. In 1982, he became the first popular singer to perform at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York. In 1987, he was named president of the Cannes Film Festival. In 1988, he was given a special tribute by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, an honor reserved for the movie world's biggest names.
        Yet he clearly had no plans for retirement. Three years ago his new companion, Carole Amiel, now 31 years old, gave birth to his first child, Valentin. Upon completing the film he was shooting with Jean-Jacques Beineix, Mr. Montand had planned to prepare for a new singing tour that was to start in Paris next spring. A LOVER, A LABORER, A VENGEFUL VILLAGER
        Yves Montand's charm translated well, and his films crossed the Atlantic to a degree uncommon for a French star. Here are the best-known films released in English or retitled for theaters in English-speaking countries.
        Star Without Light
        1946
        The Wages of Fear
        1953
        Heroes and Sinners
        1955
        The Crucible
        1956
        Let's Make Love
        1960
        Sanctuary
        1960
        Goodbye Again
        1961
        My Geisha
        1962
        The Sleeping Car Murder
        1965
        Grand Prix
        1966
        Is Paris Burning?
        1966
        Live for Life
        1967
        Mister Freedom
        1968
        The Devil by the Tail
        1969
        Z
        1969
        The Confession
        1970
        On a Clear Day You Can See Forever
        1970
        Delusions of Grandeur
        1971
        Vincent, Francois, Paul . . . and the Others
        1974
        Police Python .357
        1975
        The Roads to the South
        1978
        Womanlight
        1979
        All Fired Up
        1981
        Waiter!
        1983
        Jean de Florette
        1986
        Manon of the Spring
        1986
        Nobody Listened
        1988
      