
        Joseph Papp, director of the New York Shakespeare Festival and one of the most influential producers in the history of the American theater, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 70 years old.
        He died of prostate cancer, said Richard Kornberg, his press representative. All Broadway theaters will dim their lights at 8 tonight in tribute to Mr. Papp.
        Mr. Papp rose from a childhood in the slums of Brooklyn to found the New York Shakespeare Festival, through which he presented free Shakespeare in Central Park for more than three decades. In the 1960's, he took over the old Astor Library and turned it into the Public Theater, a huge six-theater complex in which he presented and championed the work of many young playwrights, including David Rabe, Thomas Babe, Ed Bullins, Caryl Churchill, David Hare, David Henry Hwang, Wallace Shawn, Vaclav Havel, Miguel Pinero, Ntozake Shange, Michael Weller, George C. Wolfe, David Mamet, Tina Howe and John Guare.
        The Public was the birthplace of two landmark American musicals, "Hair" and "A Chorus Line," the longest-running show in Broadway history. Mr. Papp also helped build the careers of many actors, among them James Earl Jones, Meryl Streep, Raul Julia and Kevin Kline. 'Most Important Force'
        To many in the theater world, Mr. Papp was the most significant figure in noncommercial and institutional theater in the United States over three decades. Indeed, Bernard Jacobs, president of the Shubert Organization, Broadway's biggest theater owner, said in 1977, "Joe Papp is the most important force in the English-speaking theater today." Writing about Mr. Papp in The New York Times in September, Frank Rich called him "the only giant left in the field" and said that he had left "the New York theater an almost completely different place than he found it."
        Mr. Papp took Shakespeare to the schools and to the city streets. He exercised a profound influence in bringing to the attention of the public the work of many important black, Hispanic and Asian-American playwrights and actors. He was among the first to use minority actors in major Shakespearean and other classic roles.
        He had many triumphs. Three plays he produced won Pulitzer Prizes: Charles Gordone's "No Place to Be Somebody," Jason Miller's "That Championship Season" and "A Chorus Line." His plays also garnered more than 20 Tony Awards. His production of "A Chorus Line," which was directed by Michael Bennett and won a Tony as best musical in 1976, cost $1,145,000 to take to Broadway and grossed almost $150 million for his New York Shakespeare Festival. It ran from 1975 until April 28, 1990, a total of 6,137 performances. Transfers, Triumphs And Disappointments
        "A Chorus Line" was a prime example of a practice in which Mr. Papp engaged often and well, one in which he was a pioneer: moving a play to Broadway from Off Broadway. In 1972, he achieved perhaps his greatest success with transferred works, winning both major Tony Awards: best play, for "Sticks and Bones," David Rabe's harrowing tale of a Vietnam War veteran, and best musical, for a tuneful version of Shakespeare's "Two Gentlemen of Verona," which starred Raul Julia and was first performed in Central Park. The next year, "That Championship Season" won the Tony for best play.
        But Mr. Papp also had his share of failures and detractors. He was an outspoken public figure, and his statements were rarely intended to be diplomatic. He was quick to anger at those with whom he disagreed, or who disagreed with him. He was assailed on one hand as too avant-garde, and on the other as too commercial.
        Perhaps his biggest defeat was at Lincoln Center. He ran its theater company from 1973 to 1977, when he abruptly decided to give up the job, uncomfortable with the institutional and financial strictures that came along with the post.
        In recent years, many critics sensed a decline in the quality of the Public's output; at his death, he was in the middle of an ambitious project that has received mixed critical reaction, a cycle of all of Shakespeare's plays.
        In May 1990, weakened by illness and seeking to attract new audiences and to infuse what he termed "fresh creative blood," he made major changes in his theater's artistic structure. In August, he named JoAnne Akalaitis, a founding member of the experimental troupe Mabou Mines, as his successor as artistic director of the Shakespeare Festival. An Outsider Who Moved In
        Mr. Papp was a man of contradictions. He prided himself on being an outsider and a radical, and he was long a scathing critic of what he called "that old whore Broadway."
        But as he began moving his plays uptown, and with his success of the early 1970's, from "Sticks and Bones" to "A Chorus Line," he was embraced -- and allowed himself to be embraced -- by the commercial theater.
        Mr. Rich, summing up Mr. Papp's career in The Times, observed: "Paradoxically enough, he beat Broadway at its own game by reviving the lost arts of high-stakes artistic gambling and nonstop promotion that had once made the Great White Way an electrifying venue." In proving -- with shows like "Hair" -- the commercial viability of work being done by the nonprofit theater, he continued, Mr. Papp "started a complete reversal of the power equation of the New York theater."
        To Mr. Papp, theater was always more than theater. "Theater is a social force," he once said, "not just an entertainment." His goal, he said, his guiding force, was to bring theater to the people and to "radicalize the environment."
        He seemed to care deeply about his proteges. When one, Miguel Pinero, an ex-convict who wrote "Short Eyes," an explosive look inside prisons, was arrested, Mr. Papp went to the police station to post bail. Yet he also often fought with his writers, becoming involved in long-term disputes with Mr. Rabe and Sam Shepard.
        He fought bureaucracy, unions, foundations, audiences, critics and even the City of New York. In the beginning, he successfully fought a weekly battle to obtain the money to present his park performances. Then he took on the most powerful politician in New York at the time, Robert Moses, for the right to continue his free Shakespeare performances in Central Park. He battled his playwrights, and he battled the critics. Self-Made Mogul And Old-Time Showman
        One of his greatest talents was as a fund raiser, using his very public persona as a prime means of soliciting contributions. He made television commercials for the festival, affecting the swaggering stance of a self-made mogul, talking out of the side of his mouth and gesturing grandly with a cigar. He appeared in ads for the telephone company, on billboards, on the sides of telephone booths, in black tie and scarf, off for a night at the theater.
        Joseph Papp was born on June 22, 1921, in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn to Samuel (Shmuel) and Yetta Miritch Papirofsky. His parents spoke Yiddish, and Yosl Papirofsky, as he was named, began to learn English only when he was old enough to play in the streets and go to school.
        His childhood was spent in poverty, "surrounded by terror," he once recalled. "I got beat up regularly," he said.
        His father was a trunk maker. To help the family make a living, Yosl would shine shoes, pluck chickens and, with his father, sell peanuts from a pushcart. His family would move several times a year, often in the middle of the night, because they could not pay the rent.
        During World War II, he served in the Navy and had his first real encounter with the stage. "I put on shows on a flattop," Mr. Papp wrote in a 1970 reminiscence.
        After the war, he went to California, to the Actors' Laboratory, which included many people from the Group Theater. After two years, he became managing director of the lab, graduating in 1948. The lab, however, split apart because of political disputes: Many of his colleagues, he wrote, were members of the Communist Party.
        Back in New York, Mr. Papp began working as a television stage manager for CBS. He changed his name from Papirofsky to Papp because, he said, Papirofsky was too long to fit on the television screen during the credits. In 1954, in a church on the Lower East Side, the Emmanuel Presbyterian Church, he began staging free Shakespeare.
        In 1956, he received the backing of the New York City Parks Department and its commissioner, Moses, and moved his free Shakespeare to the 2,000-seat East River Park Amphitheater on the Lower East Side. The season was produced for about $20,000, a figure that eventually expanded to the $16 million it cost to keep the Public Theater afloat in 1987. (Recession cutbacks brought the budget down to $10.5 million this year.)
        That first season, there were two productions, first "Julius Caesar," directed by Stuart Vaughan, which opened on June 29, 1956, and then "The Taming of the Shrew." The casts performed without pay, and included, as the shrew, the young Colleen Dewhurst.
        The next year, what was becoming the New York Shakespeare Festival Company toured the five boroughs with a mobile theater, then settled in Central Park, by West 81st Street near the Belvedere Castle, on the site that would later become its permanent summer home, the Delacorte Theater.
        In 1958, Mr. Papp, who had continued working for CBS, was called before the House Committee on Un-American Activities. He denied that he had been a member of the Communist Party after June 1955, but he took the Fifth Amendment and declined to say anything about his activities before that date. CBS dismissed him, but he was reinstated after an arbitration ruling, the first person to be rehired by a television network after having been let go because of testimony before the House committee.
        Mr. Papp had his famous battle with -- and victory over -- Moses in 1959. As Robert A. Caro tells it in "The Power Broker," his biography of Moses, it was Stuart Constable, Moses's top aide, who started the dispute while Moses was on vacation. What happened, Mr. Caro wrote, was this: Constable, who was politically very much on the right, found out about Mr. Papp's testimony -- or lack of it -- and became upset at the idea of a leftist producing Shakespeare for the masses. He decided that Mr. Papp would have to go and told the producer there would be no more Shakespeare unless the public was charged a fee. Mr. Papp refused. When Moses returned, he upheld his aide's decision.
        The producer took the case to trial, and although a lower court ruled in favor of Moses, the Appellate Division decided unanimously that imposing unnecessary admission charges was "in violation of the public's parks rights." The season went on, free of charge, and the next year plans were made to construct a permanent theater near the Belvedere Castle site. The new theater, named for George T. Delacorte, who donated $150,000 toward its $400,000 cost, opened in 1962, with "The Merchant of Venice." Expansion And Discoveries
        In 1966, Mr. Papp decided to expand. In a pioneering example of architectural recycling, he took over the landmark Astor Library on Lafayette Street in Lower Manhattan as his new headquarters, renaming it the New York Shakespeare Festival Public Theater. He turned the building into a six-theater complex that showed plays and classic films. He let the sun shine in with "Hair," the prototypical rock musical for the Age of Aquarius, which went on to become a major hit on Broadway. He discovered David Rabe with "The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel."
        In the mid-1970's, at the same time "A Chorus Line" was being created, Mr. Papp took over Lincoln Center Theater, while continuing at the Public and in the park. Meanwhile, "A Chorus Line" opened at the Public, moved to Broadway and became the biggest hit in Mr. Papp's career.
        But at Lincoln Center attendance declined.  In 1977, in his fourth and most successful season -- with productions of "The Threepenny Opera," "The Cherry Orchard" and "Agamemnon" at the Vivian Beaumont Theater and Mr. Rabe's "Streamers" at the Mitzi I. Newhouse Theater -- Mr. Papp suddenly announced that he was leaving Lincoln Center. He declared that he felt "trapped in an institutional structure both artistically and fiscally."
        For the rest of the 1970's and throughout the 80's, Mr. Papp continued to produce Shakespeare and works by new playwrights, many of them dealing with social issues. Among them were plays like Larry Kramer's "Normal Heart" and Harry Kondoleon's "Zero Positive."
        He also continued to transfer plays and musicals to Broadway from the Public and Central Park, sometimes successfully and sometimes not. The hit transfers included his Central Park production of "The Pirates of Penzance," which starred Linda Ronstadt and George Rose; "The Mystery of Edwin Drood," which won the Tony Award for best musical in 1986; David Hare's "Plenty," and "Cuba and His Teddy Bear," starring Robert De Niro.
        Mr. Papp never hesitated in speaking out. In 1973, outraged that CBS had postponed its planned presentation of "Sticks and Bones," he denounced the network as perpetuating a "cowardly cop-out" and canceled a $7 million contract, refusing to produce the 11 more plays he had agreed to do.
        Last year, outraged by obscenity restrictions imposed by Congress on recipients of grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, Mr. Papp rejected endowment grants totaling $373,000 and called the restrictions "unacceptable, reprehensible and insidious."
        His relationships with his writers could be volatile. Mr. Papp and Mr. Rabe did not speak for four years after Mr. Papp, the playwright said, told him that if Mr. Rabe had not become a writer he would have been a murderer. In 1981, Sam Shepard left the Public after a dispute over the handling of his play "True West" and vowed that Mr. Papp "would never see another play of mine." Mr. Papp never did.
        Many playwrights and actors, however, had an abiding love and respect for him. "He speaks from the heart," Wallace Shawn once recalled. "He has a quite amazing access to his own irrational side. So you don't get an academic response from him. You always get an unexpected response, which makes you feel that the encouragement is based on something he feels."
        Despite all his success, Mr. Papp lived modestly with his wife, Gail Merrifield, in an apartment three blocks from the Public. "I help make millionaires," he once said, "but I'm not a millionaire."
        Mr. Papp was married four times; the first three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by Ms. Merrifield, who is director of plays and musicals at the Public, and by four children from his first three marriages: Susan, Barbara, Michael and Miranda. Another son, Tony, died of AIDS in June at the age of 29.
        There will be a private funeral service for Mr. Papp at the Public Theater today. A public memorial service will be announced.
        Mr. Papp once remarked that he loved to walk through the Public just before curtain time. "It's just a matter of touching base," he said, "letting them know I'm alive, I care. When I walk through the theater, I try to make sure the public toilets are clean, the lights are on properly. It's like it's my own place, so I have a great deal of concern for how it looks." For many years, he would show up at the Delacorte at show time almost every summer evening to watch the crowds entering the theater and taking their seats.
        "When the moon is out and the wind begins to whisper," he said, "it's theater at its best. You can't beat it." Prolific Impresario With High Impact
        Joseph Papp brought more than 350 plays to the stage in the course of his 35-year-long career. Here are some of his major productions.
        Hair
        (1967)
        The Memorandum
        (1968)
        No Place To Be Somebody
        (1969)
        The Basic Training of Pavlo Hummel
        (1971)
        Sticks and Bones
        (1971)
        That Championship Season
        (1972)
        Short Eyes
        (1974)
        A Chorus Line
        (1975)
        For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf
        (1976)
        The Pirates of Penzance
        (1980)
        Plenty
        (1982)
        Top Girls
        (1982)
        The Mystery of Edwin Drood
        (1985)
        The Normal Heart
        (1985)
        The Colored Museum
        (1986)
        Serious Money
        (1987)
        Talk Radio
        (1987)
        Machinal
        (1990)
      