
        John Kirkpatrick, a professor emeritus at Yale and a pianist who popularized the works of composers like Charles Ives and Carl Ruggles, died on Friday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 86 years old.
        In 1939 Mr. Kirkpatrick gave the first performance of a piece that had been lying around, unplayed, since Ives finished it in 1915, the "Concord" Sonata, with its four movements: "Emerson," "Hawthorne," "The Alcotts" and "Thoreau."
        Mr. Kirkpatrick said he got his first look at the "Concord," a dense, complicated work that draws on everything from New England hymn tunes to bands that play in the town square, in 1927. "Penetration was gradual," he recalled later, but by 1932 he had mastered the least difficult movement, "The Alcotts." By 1935, he had worked out the opening movement, "Emerson." Composer Takes Over
        Mr. Kirkpatrick did not meet the composer until 1937, a decade after he had discovered the sonata. "The one time I started to play 'Concord' for him," Mr. Kirkpatrick said later, "all he would do was to play me other pieces based on the same material -- 'The Anti-Abolitionist Riots,' bits of 'Hawthorne,' 'The Celestial Railroad,' etc. -- and I never regained the piano stool."
        After Ives's death in 1954, Mr. Kirkpatrick became the curator of the Charles Ives Archive at Yale, cataloguing thousands of pages of manuscripts, even piecing together fragments of torn pages. This called upon Mr. Kirkpatrick's "legendary ability with jigsaw puzzles," said James Sinclar, the conductor of Orchestra New England, who is organizing the John Kirkpatrick Archive at the Yale Music Library.
        The Ives catalogue was issued in 1960. Mr. Kirkpatrick also edited Ives's "Memos" (W. W. Norton, 1973) and 58 compositions. His edition of "Forty Early Songs" by Ives is to be published in 1992. A Princeton Graduate
        Mr. Kirkpatrick graduated from Princeton in 1926 and studied in Paris with Nadia Boulanger and Louta Nounceberg. He taught at Monticello College, Mount Holyoke and Cornell before joining the Yale faculty in 1968.
        He is survived by his wife, Hope Miller Kirkpatrick; two daughters, Daisy and Mary, of Ithaca; a son, David, of Rochester, and nine grandchildren.
      