
        Deni Lamont, a member of the New York City Ballet's artistic staff who formerly danced with that company and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, a spokesman for the New York City Ballet said.
        Mr. Lamont performed for six years in the 1950's with the Ballet Russe, which promoted him to principal dancer. He danced with American Ballet Theater for a year before joining the New York City Ballet's corps in 1958. Mr. Lamont was promoted to soloist in 1964 and gained attention with roles he created in George Balanchine's new ballets. The most notable was the 1965 "Harlequinade," in which Mr. Lamont's melancholy Pierrot was also required to display considerable technique.
        A lanky, mercurial dancer, Mr. Lamont attracted notice in major supporting roles. He was Puck in Balanchine's "Midsummer Night's Dream," and as the Harlequin in Balanchine's "Sonnambula," he displayed the artistry that he once said should not be subordinate to virtuosity. His execution as the leader of the male corps in "Stars and Stripes" was nonetheless brilliant.
        Mr. Lamont was born in St. Louis, where he studied ballet before training in New York City with Igor Schwezoff, Anatole Vilzak and Edward Caton. He also performed in summer stock and studied India's classical dance idioms. He appeared in Indian dance performances with Nala Najan, Bhaskar and Candace Hibbard.
        At the City Ballet, Mr. Lamont eventually moved into character roles, including Sancho Panza in Balanchine's "Don Quixote," but he was also identified with experimental works like Merce Cunningham's "Summerspace" and Jerome Robbins's "Watermill." A few years before he retired from dancing in 1983, Mr. Lamont accepted the position of regisseur, which Balanchine created for him. In that role, he coordinated information necessary to the City Ballet's daily operations, including casting and rehearsal scheduling.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      