
        Howard Haycraft, a publishing executive, editor and author of a classic history of the mystery novel, died yesterday in Hightstown, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Hightstown.
        Although he devoted his working life to the H. W. Wilson Company, publishers of library reference books, Mr. Haycraft indulged a passion for detective fiction that resulted in "Murder for Pleasure," published in 1941 and still in print. "At time of publication it was the most important single work of fiction-mystery scholarship ever produced," Otto Penzler, the owner of the Mysterious Bookshop in Manhattan, said yesterday.
        "It remains the most insightful, perceptive and fair-minded book ever written on the subject."
        Howard Haycraft was born in Madelia, Minn., and attended the University of Minnesota, where he edited the student newspaper. After receiving a bachelor's degree, he moved to New York City, where he joined the staff of H. W. Wilson in 1929. Advancing in a Company
        While holding a number of administrative and editorial positions in the company, he edited, with the poet Stanley Kunitz, several volumes in the Wilson author series, including "The Junio Book of Authors" (1934 and 1951), "British Authors of the 19th Century" (1936), "American Authors" (1938) and "20th-Century Authors" (1942). He was elected to the company's board of directors in 1934 and was appointed vice president in 1940.
        During World War II, Mr. Haycraft served as a captain in the Army Special Services, which had responsibility for troop education and recreation. Discharged in 1946 with the rank of major, he returned to H. W. Wilson, becoming its president in 1953. He served as president until 1967, when he became chairman. He retired in 1970.
        He edited many anthologies of detective fiction, including "The Art of the Mystery Story" (1946), "Fourteen Great Detective Stories" (1949) and "The Haycraft-Queen Definitive Library of Detective Crime Mystery Fiction" (1951). He won two Edgar Awards for his work.
        "He was the great historian of the genre," said Jacques Barzun, co-author of "A Catalogue of Crime."
        Mr. Hayward is survived by his wife, the former Molly Randolph Costain, whom he married in 1942, and a sister, Anne H. Hellickson, both of Hightstown.
      