
        Milton H. Farber, the retired president of the Bronx company that manufactures Farberware pots, pans and appliances, died on Tuesday at his home in Atlantis, Fla.
        He was 81 years old and died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Farber joined the family business as a teen-ager. The company, S. W. Farber Inc., which manufactured gift trays and racks, was founded in 1897 by his father, Simon, a Russian emigrant who started as a match peddler on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. The family opened a plant in Brooklyn next to the Williamsburg Bridge. A clamp-on light invented so Mr. Farber could sleep while his wife read in bed propelled the company's success.
        The second generation took the reins of the enterprise during the 1940's, with Milton becoming vice president for production while his brother, Isadore, became president and head of sales. Two brothers-in-law were also executives.
        The company moved to the Bronx in 1944 and expanded into a new line of stainless steel pots and pans with bonded aluminum bottoms for better heat conduction. Dubbed Farberware, it became a leading brand of cookware. Next came a line of electrical appliances. Small Arms During the War
        During World War II, the company made small arms, and the Federal Government honored Milton Farber for serving as chairman of production engineering and of the Small Business Mobilization Committee.
        When Isadore retired as president, Milton succeeded him. The company was sold to Hanson Industries, but he remained with the operation until he retired in 1973. He also designed and supervised the building of a factory in Israel to produce Farberware.
        Mr. Farber was born in Brooklyn and was captain of the football team at Erasmus Hall High School. He graduated with honors in industrial engineering at the University of Pennsylvania and in economics from the Wharton School.
        He lived for 25 years in New Rochelle and 18 years in Bronxville. He served as a board member of the Merchants Bank of New York for 17 years and of Shopwell Inc. for 11 years. He was president of Vernon Hills Country Club in Eastchester and class A club champion in golf there in 1947. He was also a partner of Sherbrooke Country Club in Lake Worth, Fla., where he designed and oversaw the building of its clubhouse. He was on the board of Curry College in Milton, Mass.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Gold; a daughter, Marilyn Jacobs of New Rochelle; a son, Alan, of Mount Vernon; a sister, Dorothy Shanok of New Rochelle; a brother, Isadore, of Woodlands, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      