
        Harry Packard, a collector and dealer in Japanese art who sold the Metropolitan Museum of Art the largest group of objects it has ever bought, died on Thursday at the Rakuyo Hospital in Kyoto, Japan. He was 77 years old and lived in Ohara, Japan.
        His lawyer, William L. Johnson, said he had died of pneumonia.
        In 1975, Mr. Packard sold his extensive collection of 412 Japanese artworks to the Metropolitan Museum for $5.1 million, a sale that is still described as the largest group ever purchased by the museum. The holdings were appraised at the time by Japanese experts at $11.3 million, with the balance of $6.2 million considered a gift from the seller. The collection, dating from neolithic times to the 20th century, included archeological art, Buddhist paintings, scrolls, screens and ceramics. Most of the objects were not shown at the museum until its Japanese galleries were opened in 1987 and about half of what is exhibited there is from the Packard collection.
        "Without the Packard collection," said Barbara Ford, an associate curator of Asian art, "the display of Japanese art at the Metropolitan Museum -- considered to be fully representative of the scope of Japanese art -- would not be possible."  Introduced to Japanese Art
        Mr. Packard's introduction to Japanese art came at the start of World War II at the Metropolitan Museum, where he met Alan Priest, head of the Far Eastern department. Mr. Priest took him through the museum, showing him Japanese woodblock prints and Chinese paintings. Mr. Packard, who had enlisted in the Navy, was in New York studying Japanese at a naval intelligence school.
        He began buying Japanese art after the war, while stationed in China, where he assisted in the repatriation of Japanese prisoners. He continued collecting after he was discharged and was working in a civilian job in the occupation headquarters in Japan.
        Mr. Packard, born in Salt Lake City in 1914, was reared in San Francisco and Seattle. He graduated from the University of Seattle with a degree in civil engineering and later studied Oriental languages at night at the University of California at Berkeley. He also did postgraduate work in art history at Waseda University in Tokyo. Long a Resident of Japan
        Mr. Packard had lived in Japan since the 1950's. He continued acquiring Oriental art, and this year sold collections of Japanese and Korean art to the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco.
        Rand Castile, the director of the museum, said the collection of 27 Japanese works -- paintings, screens, sculpture and objects -- dating from the 9th century to the early 19th century, "was one of the greatest treasures of Japanese art ever assembled and offered to an American museum."
        Mr. Packard is survived by his wife, Hideko; a daughter, Hana, and a son, Jin Michael; six children from earlier marriages: Katherine, of San Rafael, Calif.; David, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Chisa, of Corpus Christie, Tex.; Kim, of Paris; Janice Packard Louden, of Fairbanks, Alaska, and Sarah Ann Nishie, of Tokyo; and four grandchildren.
      