
        Roger W. Tubby, a newspaperman and Government official who briefly served as press secretary to President Harry S. Truman in 1952, died yesterday at his home in Saranac Lake, N.Y. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        For the last 35 years, with time out in the 1960's for service as press spokesman for the State Department and for an ambassadorial post in Geneva, Mr. Tubby had been a resident and indefatigable promoter of the Adirondack region of New York State.
        In 1954, shortly after he became co-publisher of The Adirondack Daily Enterprise in Saranac Lake, he founded the Adirondack Park Association, now the 14-county Adirondack North Country Association. Until his death he remained a major advocate of economic aid for the region and preservation of its scenic and historic attractions.
        His efforts were reflected in his chairmanship of the New York State Tourism Advisory Council from 1985 until his retirement in 1988.  Government Service in Wartime
        Mr. Tubby went to Washington in World War II as an information officer on foreign trade and became press officer in the State Department after the war. In 1950 he joined the White House press staff and was press secretary in the last three months of the Truman Presidency.
        In 1961 he returned to the State Department as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. Later he spent seven years as United States representative to United Nations agencies in Geneva, holding the rank of ambassador, and three years as dean of academic relations at the Foreign Relations Institute in Washington.
        His love of the Adirondacks absorbed most of his energies in later life. In September1988, shortly before Mr. Tubby stepped down as head of the Tourism Advisory Council, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo cited his "hands-on administration, good counsel and wisdom" as "a bulwark of the state's tourism industry for decades." Native of Connecticut
        A native of Greenwich, Conn., and a graduate of Choate School and Yale University, Mr. Tubby did postgraduate study at the London School of Economics. His first newspaper job was reporting for The Bennington Banner in Vermont in 1938. Two years later he became the paper's managing editor.
        In 1942 he began his Government service on the staff of the Board of Economic Warfare in Washington. He moved to the Foreign Economic Administration as director of information in 1944 and later held a similar post in the Commerce Department's Office of International Trade.
        From 1945 to 1949 Mr. Tubby was press officer for the State Department, and in 1950 he was named assistant press secretary at the White House. He moved up to acting press secretary in the fall of 1952 and to the post of chief spokesman that December.  Stevenson Aide in 1956
        In 1956 he was an aide to Adlai E. Stevenson in Mr. Stevenson's unsuccessful campaign for President against Dwight D. Eisenhower. By that time he had bought, with James Loeb Jr., The Adirondack Daily Enterprise. He was active in its management until 1970 and remained a columnist until his final illness.
        In 1974 he ran unsuccessfully for the House of Representatives as a Democrat. The next year he was appointed New York State's Deputy Commissioner of Parks and Recreation in charge of operations and planning, a post he held for two years.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Williams ; his mother, Frances Olitsky of Greenwich, Conn.; three daughters, Suzanne Batra of Greenbelt, Md., Jean Prentiss Sherwood of Rockville, Md., and Brenda Chandler of Portland, Me.; a son, Peter, of Adamstown, Md.; a sister, Ruth Rubinstein of London and nine grandchildren.
      