
        Tony Richardson, who won an Oscar for the film "Tom Jones," died yesterday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 63 years old.
        He died of a neurological infection that was apparently brought on by AIDS, said his physician, Dr. Michael J. Scolaro. Mr. Richardson developed a fever after treatment last Saturday, and he became semicomatose on Monday, Dr. Scolaro said.
        Mr. Richardson's career began in 1953, when he joined the BBC, directing such productions as "Othello" and Dostoyevsky's "Gambler." In 1955, he followed a BBC colleague, George Devine, to the newly formed English Stage Company, first as associate artistic director and then as joint artistic director. Mr. Richardson said the English Stage Theater had been formed "to make the creative writer and the theater mutually aware of each other."
        From the 600-seat Royal Court Theater, where ground-breaking plays by Shaw and Ibsen had been introduced to English audiences a half-century earlier, the English Stage Company set out to break new ground of its own. The first play Mr. Richardson directed there was one that had been rejected by every agent who had seen it: John Osborne's "Look Back in Anger." Transplanted to Broadway, where it opened in October 1957, it ran for more than 400 performances and won the Drama Critics Circle Award as the best foreign play of the year. Starting a Company
        Mr. Richardson and Mr. Osborne decided not to sell the screen rights of "Look Back in Anger" to a major studio. Instead, they started a film company of their own, Woodfall Film Productions Ltd. The film version of "Look Back in Anger" opened in 1959 with Mr. Richardson as director and a cast that included Richard Burton and Claire Bloom. The company's second film, "The Entertainer," featured Sir Laurence Olivier as a down-at-the-heels music hall comedian.
        Mr. Richardson made his first Hollywood film in 1960, "Sanctuary," for 20th Century Fox. It was based in part on a Faulkner novel, and Mr. Richardson said the result was "very bad."
        But he was also critical of the big Hollywood studios, accusing them of being overly cautious and overly concerned about protecting their huge investments. In October 1960, he said, "It's impossible to make films that appeal to everyone, and the only solution is to make them at a nonprohibitive cost, and to try to adhere to a strong, independent point of view that will appeal to at least one body of customers: the ones who want to be stimulated by provocative ideas."
        Perhaps his best-known film was "Tom Jones," an adaptation of the Henry Fielding novel about a young man's life in 18th-century England. "I wanted to get away from the rainy, industrial cities of the North," Mr. Richardson said. "I wanted something full of color and fun and it suddenly hit me that 'Tom Jones,' which I'd loved since childhood, was it."
        "Tom Jones" won three Oscars: best picture, best screenwriter and, for Mr. Richardson, best director.
        In recent months, he directed "Blue Sky," starring Jessica Lange and Tommy Lee Jones. It is to be released next year.
        Mr. Richardson was born on June 5, 1928, in Shipley, Yorkshire, the son of a druggist. When his secondary school was moved to the country in World War II and essentially fell apart, he spent much of his time wandering the countryside.
        "I hated all authority," he told a magazine interviewer in 1963. He added that he hoped that this "essential attitude" carried over into his adult life.
        At Oxford University, where he was president of the college's dramatic society, he directed "Peer Gynt," "Romeo and Juliet" and "King John." He graduated in 1952.
        He is survived by three daughters, the actresses Natasha Richardson and Joely Richardson, and Katherine Grimond. Mr. Richardson married the actress Vanessa Redgrave in the early 1960's. They were divorced in 1967. A CAREER DEVOTED TO FANTASY
        Tony Richardson directed movies for over 30 years. These are the films he made.
        Look Back in Anger
        1959
        The Entertainer
        1960
        Sanctuary
        1961
        A Taste of Honey
        1961
        The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner
        1962
        Tom Jones
        1963
        The Loved One
        1965
        Mademoiselle
        1966
        The Sailor From Gibraltar
        1967
        Red and Blue
        1967
        Charge of the Light Brigade
        1968
        Laughter in the Dark
        1969
        Hamlet
        1970
        Ned Kelly
        1970
        A Delicate Balance
        1973
        Joseph Andrews
        1977
        The Border
        1982
        The Hotel New Hampshire
        1984
        Hills Like White Elephants
        1989
        Blue Sky,
        1991
      