
        Ernest Kellogg Gann, author of popular adventure novels, painter and pilot, died on Thursday evening at his home on San Juan Island, Wash. He was 81 years old.
        He died of kidney failure, said his wife, Dodie.
        A dozen of Mr. Gann's best-known books were made into movies, including "The High and the Mighty," "Fate Is the Hunter," "Island in the Sky" and "Soldier of Fortune."
        Recently Mr. Gann devoted his energies to painting, going to his studio every day, said Lynne Rogers, a friend of the family. He had several art shows in Seattle.
        In 1939, while flying for American Airlines, Mr. Gann published his first book, "Sky Roads," about how airplanes fly and how airlines operated. He also wrote several other books about aviation. He was a pilot for the Army Air Corps Air Transport Command in World War II and continued to write during layovers at military bases. His novel "Island in the Sky," about an Arctic rescue, was published in 1944 and became a best seller. A First Love
        Flying was Mr. Gann's first love; he piloted his own plane and flew all kinds of aircraft, including modern military jets.
        He also loved the sea and sailed in many parts of the world. His last boat, the Sea Puss, was a tugboat. Among his tales of sea adventures are "Twilight for the Gods" and "Soldier of Fortune."
        The last film based on one of his best sellers was "Masada," a four-part series shown on ABC television in 1981. The story was oiginally published in 1971 as "The Antagonists." His last book, "The Black Watch" (1989), was a nonfiction work about the men who fly America's secret spy planes.
        A native of Lincoln, Neb., Mr. Gann graduated from Culver Military Academy. He attended Yale Drama School but did not finish. His attempts to write a Broadway play were a failure, and his first book was rejected by a number of publishers. He spent three years trying to make a living as a barnstorming pilot, flying out of New York City.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Steven, of Monterey, Calif.; a daughter, Polly Wrench of Houston, and three grandchildren.
      