
        Roy Herman Copperud, a professor of journalism and an authority on the use of the English language, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 76 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his wife, Mary Emily, said.
        Mr. Copperud was the word columnist for Editor & Publisher, the journalists' trade magazine, for 35 years. His last column appeared in November.
        His best known work, A Dictionary of Usage and Style (Hawthorn Books, 1964), was considered a valuable reference guide for writers and editors as well as teachers and students of journalism.
        Another book on language, "American Usage: The Consensus" (Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1970), won the humanities award of the Association of American Publishers in 1980.
        Mr. Copperud joined the faculty of the School of Journalism at the University of Southern California in 1964 and was named to full professorship in 1970. At the same time, he served as a consultant to newspapers and businesses on writing and editing.
        He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Minnesota and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He served in the Navy in World War II.
        Before he became a journalism professor, Mr. Copperud worked as a journalist, serving on the editorial staffs of The Baltimore Evening Sun, The Milwaukee Journal, The Pasadena Star-News and Independent and as a copy editor for The Los Angeles Times.
        In 1975, he won the Distinguished Newspaper Adviser Award from the National Council of College Professors. He served as a consultant to the Webster Living Encyclopedic Dictionary.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Jill Ellen and Wendy Leigh Price, both of Altadena.
        Correction:  December 24, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary in some editions on Sunday about Roy Herman Copperud, a journalism professor and an authority on English usage, misstated the date of his death. As noted yesterday in a reprint for readers who missed the obituary on Sunday, Mr. Copperud died on Dec. 7, not last Saturday.
      