
        Saul B. Newton, a psychotherapist who ran an unorthodox commune in Manhattan that was assailed by ex-members as an abusive cult died on Saturday at Methodist Hosptial in Brooklyn. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of septicemia after suffering from Alzheimer's disease, a daughter said.
        The reclusive Mr. Newton, whose group was known as the Sullivanians, defended his therapy as a major innovation and a boon to patients. Mr. Newton dismissed his critics, who said he separated parents from children and pressured members to have multiple sex partners, as mentally disturbed liars or political opponents.
        His beliefs had radical political themes. Earlier he was a union organizer, an avowed Communist and a soldier in the Abraham Lincoln Brigade in Spain. In recent years, he was an ardent foe of nuclear arms and power. 'Hated and Loved'
        "He was both hated and loved," said Esther Newton, his eldest daughter, who was not involved in his therapeutic community. "His ideals were lofty -- the results are for others to judge," she said. "He was very bright and creative, charismatic and definitely difficult, handsome, attractive to women and tyrannical."
        At its peak in the 1970's, his organization had hundreds of members living in three buildings on the Upper West Side. Its formal name was the Sullivan Institute for Research in Psychoanalysis; a subsidiary group was the Fourth Wall Repertory Company, a theater organization based in the East Village.
        In recent years the Sullivanians declined in membership, beset by unfavorable publicity, investigations by state authorities into charges of professional misconduct by therapists, child custody lawsuits, the organized opposition of disaffected former members and estranged relatives of members, internal disputes and Mr. Newton's deteriorating health.
        The group's name was derived from the late Henry Stack Sullivan, a prominent American psychiatrist. In 1957, Mr. Newton and Dr. Jane Pearce, his wife at the time, split off from the Sullivan-oriented William Alanson White Institute to form their own organization. Most mental health experts view the Newton group as having distorted Mr. Sullivan's name and theories.
        Through their unique brand of psychotherapy, Mr. Newton and his disciples controlled virtually all aspects of their followers lives, former residents said.
        Members were taught that traditional family ties were at the root of mental illness and needed to be broken to foster individual growth, ex-members said. They were assigned to lived in group apartments and were expected to sleep with different sex partners, changing as often as each night. Married couples did not live together. Permission was required to give birth. Children were raised by babysitters, with parental visits allowed one hour a day and one evening a week. Members often broke off contact with their own parents and other relatives. Under outside criticism, some of these practices were moderated in recent years.
        The members included many highly educated professionals like lawyers and doctors. Some were trained and channeled into other high-paying jobs like computer programming and analysis. Through dues, assessments and fines, most of their income was paid to the organization, which owns two Manhattan apartment buildings and rents another.
        Mr. Newton grew up in St. John's, New Brunswick, Canada. His original family name was Cohen. He attended the University of Wisconsin and then went to Chicago where he associated with radicals with ties to the University of Chicago. He became a unionist, Communist and anti-fascist. After fighting in the Spainish civil war, he served in the United States Army in Europe during World War II. After the war, he pursued psychotherapy in New York City.
        The dual themes of politics and psychology endured through his career. Mr. Newton apparently saw himself as a unifying visionary for the two disciplines.
        Michael Bray, a Brooklyn psychologist who quit the Sullivanians after 13 years and is now suing for child custody to regain his two daughters, said Mr. Newton told him: "In psychology there is Freud, Sullivan and Newton. In politics there is Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Newton. We are the psychological and political vanguard for the world community." Manipulative Cult
        In retrospect, Mr. Bray said he viewed the Sullivanians as a manipulative cult that preyed on people, made patients feel troubled and vulnerable, cut them off from their families and the outside world.
        Among the organization's extreme actions was its response to the Three Mile Island nuclear plant disaster in 1979. The Sullivanians temporarily fled to Orlando, Fla. Later they produced a documentary predicting people would suffer the aftereffects for years to come.
        Mr. Newton was married and divorced six times. He is survived by four sons, Robert, Keith and Michael, all of Manhattan, and Paul of California, and six daughters, Sarah of London, Wendy of Los Angeles, Amanda, of Chicago and Pamela, Jennifer and Esther, all of Manahattan.
      