
        Hsin-Nung Yao, a major Chinese writer who was denounced as a traitor by Mao Zedong and whose most popular play was banned as politically incorrect, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 86 years old.
        He died of influenza, his family said.
        Best known as a screenwriter and playwright, Mr. Yao was also a professor, scholar, poet, critic and calligrapher. He was denounced in 1967 for his play "Sorrows of the Forbidden City." Banned by Mao, it told the Manchu Dynasty tale of the notorious Empress Dowager who ordered the murder of a nephew, Emperor Kuang-hsu, who was exploring Western democratic ideas.
        Written in 1941, the play inspired several films in the 1950's. Its popularity continued to grow in later years, when audiences often viewed it as an allegory of Mao and some daring liberal officials promoted the work as symbolic.
        Born in Amoy, China, Mr. Yao was descended from a distinguished line of elite Chinese scholar-officials. His father was the governor of Fujian province and national education commissioner. A prodigy who could recite Chinese classics by the age of 6, Mr. Yao later broke from traditional curriculum to study drama at Yale University on a Rockefeller Foundation scholarship.
        Later he returned to China, but he left again in 1949 amid the turmoil of the Communist revolution. He was based in Hong Kong until he moved to the United States in 1969. He taught at the University of Hawaii, the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif., and San Francisco State University.
        His greatest contributions were historical dramas and classical scholarship, said Dr. Han H. Frankel, a professor emeritus of Chinese literature at Yale. Mr. Yao also wrote on modern themes; for example, his play "Abyss" depicts urban slums and drug addiction.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Dorothy Wen Wu, who helped produce his plays; two daughters, Agnes and Hilda, both of San Francisco; three sons, Anthony, of Los Altos, Calif., Robert, of Oakland, Calif., and John, of Sacramento, Calif.; a brother, Zuzeng, and sister, Jiming Yu, both of Suzhou, China.
      