
        James C. Fletcher, the former head of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration who sold the space shuttle program to Congress in the 1970's, died Sunday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        Dr. Fletcher died of lung cancer, his wife, Fay, said.
        He was the only person to serve twice as NASA Administrator, first from April 1971 to May 1977, then from May 1986 to April 1989.
        A tall, distinguished man, Dr. Fletcher presided over the agency during two of its most critical periods: in the early 1970's as NASA struggled to redefine the space program after the Apollo missions, and in the aftermath of the explosion of the shuttle Challenger in 1986. Initiated Voyager Program
        "In both circumstances, he took a cautious, thoughtful and ultimately productive approach," said Dr. John M. Logsdon, director of the Space Policy Institute at Georgetown University.
        Dr. Fletcher oversaw or initiated virtually every major space project of the last two decades. Although the missions were planned before he took over, he was Administrator during the three Skylab missions in 1973 and 1974 and the two Viking probes that landed on Mars in 1976.
        He also initiated the Voyager space probe, the space telescope program and the Apollo-Soyuz mission, which in 1975 linked American and Russian astronauts in space.
        Dr. Logsdon said that in the 1970's Dr. Fletcher strove to make NASA's mission one of using space technology to solve problems on Earth, placing special emphasis on communication and weather satellites. Returned to Head NASA
        But his greatest imprint was on the shuttle program. He sold it to the Nixon Administration and to Congress, arguing that it would pay for itself in a time of shrinking budgets for space missions. His projections did not hold true, but the shuttle program flourished until Jan. 28, 1986, when the Challenger exploded, killing all seven astronauts aboard.
        At the request of President Ronald Reagan, Mr. Fletcher returned to head NASA in May 1986 to piece together an agency not only demoralized by the accident but suffering from severe managerial problems. But he said it was only reluctantly that he left his aerospace consulting company, James C. Fletcher & Associates, and a teaching position at the University of Pittsburgh.
        Over the next three years, in his usual low-key style, he rearranged NASA's bureaucracy and returned the shuttle program to flight in 1988.
        "He brought a sense of calm and purpose to an agency that was very troubled in the aftermath of Challenger," Dr. Logsdon said. Accusations of Conflict
        But during the intense scrutiny surrounding the accident, Dr. Fletcher was caught up in accusations that there was waste during his first administration and that in 1973 he helped steer a contract for the shuttle booster rockets to Morton Thiokol Inc. of Brigham City, Utah. The company's flawed booster rocket design was blamed for the explosion.
        In November 1987, Dr. Fletcher was cleared by Congressional investigators of violating conflict-of-interest regulations. Questions had been raised about his membership on the executive committee of Pro-Utah Inc., a lobby group that sought to promote industrial growth in Utah, at the time he joined the space agency in 1971.
        James Chipman Fletcher was born on June 5, 1919, in Millburn, N.J. He received an undergraduate degree in physics from Columbia University and a doctorate in physics from the California Institute of Technology.
        After holding research and teaching positions at Harvard and Princeton Universities, he joined Hughes Aircraft in 1948 and later worked at the Guided Missile Division of the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation.
        In 1958 he co-founded the Space Electronics Corporation of Glendale, Calif., which after a merger became the Space General Corporation. He was later named systems vice president of the Aerojet General Corporation, an aerospace company in Sacramento, Calif.
        In 1964 he became the eighth president of the University of Utah, a position he held until he was named NASA Administrator in 1971.
        Aside from his wife, Mr. Fletcher is survived by a son, Stephen; three daughters, Ginger, Mary Susan and Barbara; four brothers, Paul, of San Diego, Robert, of Boston, and Stephen and Harvey, both of Provo, Utah, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 14, 1992, Tuesday
        An obituary on Dec. 24 about James C. Fletcher, former administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, misstated the affiliation of Dr. John M. Logsdon, an aerospace authority. He is director of the Space Policy Institute at George Washington University.
      