
        Former Gov. Bert T. Combs of Kentucky, a Democrat who championed fiscal reforms and civil rights in his four-year tenure as the state's chief executive three decades ago, was found dead in a river in east-central Kentucky yesterday after his car was swept away by floodwaters. He was 80 years old.
        The police said Mr. Combs's body was found in the Red River at Rosslyn, Ky., just downstream from his car, hours after he had been reported missing. They said he had apparently driven the car onto a section of back road flooded by five feet of water a few miles from his home in rural Powell County. Mr. Combs also lived in Lexington, Ky., about 50 miles northwest of Powell County.
        An associate, Stewart Conner, managing partner of the Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs law firm in Lexington, where Mr. Combs was senior partner, said the former Governor left his office at 5:30 P.M. on Tuesday and was reported missing after he had failed to arrive home. His body was found not far from a four-lane parkway named for him.  A Bonus for Veterans
        Mr. Combs was Governor from 1959 to 1963 and helped enact a sales tax to finance a veterans' bonus, schools, roads and parks. In 1963, bypassing the Legislature, he issued an executive order barring racial discrimination in state-licensed businesses and professions.
        After his tenure he remained a leading figure in Kentucky politics, although he failed in a campaign to recapture the governorship in 1971.
        He was a judge on the state's highest court from 1951 to 1955 and was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, from 1967 to 1970. He later served as a member of President Jimmy Carter's General Advisory Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament.
        In 1989, serving pro bono, Mr. Combs was the chief lawyer for a coalition of 66 property-poor Kentucky school districts whose successful suit against the state's method of financing education forced the Legislature to overhaul the system. Links to Early Settlers
        Bertram Thomas Combs was born in Manchester, in Kentucky's eastern mountains, into a family that proudly traced its ancestry to English settlers who arrived in Virginia in 1619. His father was a teacher.
        Mr. Combs received a law degree in 1937 at the University of Kentucky, where he ranked second in his class. In World War II he served as a captain on the legal staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur in the Pacific.
        After a brief tenure as a state attorney, Mr. Combs served on Kentucky's highest court, the Court of Appeals. He resigned in 1955 to run in the Democratic primary for governor as the representative of the party faction opposed to A. B. (Happy) Chandler, former United States Senator and baseball commissioner. Mr. Chandler won the primary and was elected governor that November. Sales Tax Referendum
        There was a replay in 1959, but this time Mr. Combs won the primary against Mr. Chandler's candidate and easily defeated his Republican opponent in the general election.
        Mr. Combs was elected mainly on a promise to raise the "moral and political tone of government" in Kentucky.  A referendum approved his call for a sales tax to finance the veterans' bonus, and he then set the tax rate high enough, at 3 cents on the dollar, to raise money for schools, roads and parks as well.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sara Walter; two children by a previous marriage, Lois Weinberg of Hindman, Ky., and Tom Combs of Lexington, and three grandsons.
      