
        Lieut. Gen. John J. Tolson 3d, retired, who as commander of an Army division in Vietnam helped pioneer the use of helicopters as a leading instrument of modern warfare, died Monday at Rex Hospital in Raleigh, N.C. He was 76 years old and lived in Raleigh.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        It was as commander of the First Cavalry Division (Airmobile) in 1967 and 1968 that General Tolson used the helicopter as a shuttle to quickly move soliders and supplies to the scene of battles against elusive Vietcong guerrillas and their North Vietnamese allies.
        More than 400 helicopters and 15,000 troops were under his command, and he deployed them in such major encounters as the relief of Khe Sanh and the counterthrust to the Communists' Tet offensive of 1968.
        "Basically, through his skill as an aviator and his insight as a military thinker, he saw the value of the machine at his disposal," said R. Steven Maxham, director of the United States Army Aviation Museum at Fort Rucker, Ala.
        Mr. Tolson, a native of New Bern, N.C., studied at the University of North Carolina and graduated from West Point in 1937. In World War II, he helped to organize the 503d Parachute Infantry Regiment and served on all its jumps, including the recapture of Corregidor.
        After the war, he trained as an airplane and helicopter pilot, was appointed the Army's chief of doctrine and combat development and later was commander of aviation training at Fort Rucker. He wrote a manual on the helicopter's value in air transport, although at the time many officers remained dubious of its value.
        When he put theory into practice in Vietnam, he was at the front line himself. He logged more than 1,000 hours of combat flying and barely escaped death when enemy bullets tore through the door and windshield of the helicopter he was flying.
        After his Vietnam tour, he was promoted from major general to lieutenant general and given command of Fort Bragg, N.C. There he continued to be an innovator. Publicly acknowledging illict drugs as a growing problem, he granted amnesty and provided treatment for soldiers who came forward, a departure from the usual practice of discharging offenders. He also assigned soldiers to help impoverished towns near the base with medical care, school repairs and other aid.
        General Tolson retired in 1973 as deputy commander of the Continental Army and for the next four years was secretary of North Carolina's Military and Veterans Affairs Department. His decorations included the Distinguished Service Cross and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He was a past president of the Association of the United States Army.
        His survivors are his wife, the former Margaret Jordan Young; two sons, David C. Tolson of Atlanta and John J. Tolson of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Harriet B. Tolson of East Haddam, Conn.
      