
        Sir Robert Jackson, a former Under Secretary General of the United Nations, died of a stroke on Saturday morning in the apartment of his son in London, the United Nations Secretariat said yesterday. He was 79 years old.
        Sir Robert, an Australian, lived in Manhattan and was visiting his son, Robert Jr., at the time of his death. He was knighted in 1956 and named a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in 1962.
        An international administrator and consultant, Sir Robert served the United Nations -- and the Governments of Australia, India, Pakistan and other countries -- in many capacities over the years. As an Under Secretary from 1972 until his retirement in 1987, he was one of the highest officials in the United Nations system.
        He was particularly known for his work in relief and humanitarian activities in Bangladesh, Cambodia and elsewhere and in economic development in more than 60 developing countries. He was also the guiding spirit of a 1970 document, called the Jackson report, that led to changes in the United Nations system of providing economic aid to developing countries.  Called a Founding Father
        Luis Maria Gomez, an Argentinian who is the Associate Administrator of the United Nations Development Program, said yesterday that Sir Robert "was one of the founding fathers of the U.N. system and a profound reformer of its technical operations mechanism."
        Another former Under Secretary General, Sir Brian Urquhart, a Briton, wrote in his memoirs, published in 1987, that Sir Robert's "capacity to work at full pressure, taking into account a large variety of economic, political, logistical, financial and natural factors and making them into a coherent operational plan, was a marvelous thing to see."
        Sir Robert oversaw reconstruction efforts for the United Nations in the early 1970's in Bangladesh after the Pakistani civil war. These efforts included putting the inland transportation system back into operation.
        His main collaborator on the Jackson report -- an 18-month team effort -- was Margaret Joan Anstee, who was then an employee of the United Nations Development Program and is now herself an Under Secretary General.  Major Innovations
        Sarah Timpson, a member of the program's Senior Policy Group, said yesterday that the report had led to such majr innovations as a system for fostering "consensus between the northern, donor nations and the southern, recipient nations, which has been the basis for the U.N.D.P.'s way of operating ever since."
        Robert Gillman Allen Jackson was born Nov. 8, 1911, in Melbourne, Australia. He entered the Australian Navy in 1929 and switched to Britain's Royal Navy in 1937. During World War II he served largely in staff posts, in Malta and elsewhere, and then returned to civilian life.
        From 1945 to 1947 he was Senior Deputy Director General of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration and oversaw activities of that agency in Europe and other places where World War II had caused destruction.
        He held various British and Australian honors in addition to his knighthoods.
        In 1950 Sir Robert was married to Barbara Ward, the British economist and author who in 1976 was made a life peer with the title of Baroness Jackson of Lodsworth. They were separated at the time of her death in 1981.
        He is survived by his son, a grandson and a granddaughter.
        Burial is to be Jan. 21 in London. Arrangements for a memorial service in Manhattan are being made by officials of the United Nations Development Program.
      