
        Frank S. Kristof, a retired housing official for New York City and an outspoken opponent of rent control, died on Friday at his home in Highland Lakes, N.J.
        Mr. Kristof, who also had a home in Manhattan, was 74 years old. He died of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        He served as president of the New York City Rent Stabilization Association from 1978 to 1981. Earlier, he served as the city's housing economist under Mayors Robert F. Wagner and John V. Lindsay.
        A critic of rent regulation, Mr. Kristof once said, "It is essentially a middle-class rip-off of the most unpopular victim of our society -- the landlord." He blamed rent control for reduced construction, and the deterioration and abandonment of buildings. Wide Housing Experience
        He was born in Manhattan and graduated from City College in 1942. From 1943 to 1946, he served in the Air Force as a first lieutenant. He then worked as a substitute high school teacher while studying at Columbia University, earning his master's degree and a doctorate in economics.
        In 1952, he started work as a market analyst for the Federal Housing Administration and in 1955, he became a consultant for the State Rent Commission. The next year he was appointed assistant chief of housing for the United States Census Bureau. In 1960 he was named deputy director of planning and program research for the City Housing and Redevelopment Board and in 1963 was promoted to director. In 1967 he became assistant administrator of the City Housing and Development Administration.
        Moving to the State Urban Development Corporation, Mr. Kristof became its director of economics and housing finance in 1968 and its vice president of planning and program development in 1977. He was also appointed twice as a member of the City Rent Guidelines Board, which sets rent rates for stabilized apartments.
        As an international consultant, he worked in Africa and Barbados for the United Nations, in Thailand for the World Bank, in India and Bahrain for the Ford Foundation and in Brazil for Columbia University. He taught at Hunter College, Pratt Institute and Columbia and wrote many professional articles.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Roseanne Miller, whom he married after the death of his first wife, the former Helen Reilly, and by a step-sister, Mary Maier of Rhinelander, Wis.
      