
        Hart Perry, a retired international corporate executive and government official who helped create an important foreign aid agency for developing countries, died on Thursday at his farm home near Germantown, N.Y. He was 73 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Perry helped draft the legislation authorizing the United States Development Loan Fund, then helped organize the new agency in 1958 and became its senior Civil Service official as deputy director. The agency was the prime source of American aid to foreign countries and eventually evolved into the current Agency for International Development.
        Earlier in his career he was a top official at the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation in New York City, serving as a director, executive vice president and chief financial officer. He helped devise new international financing arrangements for the company's foreign expansion and helped oversee its acquisition of Avis, Sheraton and Hartford Insurance.
        Mr. Perry was born in York, Neb. He did undergraduate study at the University of Chicago. He did not get a bachelor's degree but did earn a master's in political science at the university.  Served With O.S.S.
        In World War II he served in the United States Office of Strategic Services. After the war he was an officer of American Community Builders, a Chicago developer that built the suburb of Park Forest.
        From 1951 to 1958, as an assistant division chief in the Federal Bureau of the Budget, he was responsible for reviewing foreign aid, the Central Intelligence Agency, the Export-Import Bank and part of the State Department.
        After helping run the Development Loan Fund, he joined ITT in 1961. A Federal judge barred him and two other directors from re-election to its board in 1972 on the ground that the company failed to tell stockholders of civil litigation pending against the three.
        In 1973 he left ITT to become president and chief executive officer of the SoGen Swiss International Corporation, an investment company in New York. He left in 1979 to become a director of several oil and gas companies and chairman of the Energy Assets Corporation and World Television.
        He was a trustee of the University of Chicago, Bard College, the Asia Society of New York City and the Big Apple Circus and was a former director of the Foreign Policy Association and the Overseas Development Council.
        He is survived by his wife, Beatrice; a son, Hart, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      