
        Dr. Harry N. Rivlin, dean emeritus of the Fordham University School of Education and a former educator at Queens College and the City University of New York, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart disease, his family said.
        His career as a teacher and administrator in New York City spanned nearly 50 years, beginning in 1924, with many of those years spent teaching future teachers.
        Dr. Rivlin graduated from City College and Teachers College at Columbia and earned his Ph.D. at Columbia University. He returned to all three schools to teach and was acting president of City College in the 1961-62 academic year. Earlier in his career, he taught at the two public schools from which he graduated, Public School 43 and Boys High School in Brooklyn. Training Urban Teachers
        He was dean of the Graduate School of Education at Fordham from 1966 to 1973, when he reached emeritus status. During his tenure he developed programs for training urban teachers and administrators. He then was John Mosler Professor of Urban Education and special assistant to the university president before retiring in 1974.
        He joined the faculty at City College of New York in 1930 as an assistant and then associate professor.
        In 1939, he moved on to Queens College, which was then being formed as a municipal college. Dr. Rivlin helped organize its education department and served as department chairman and director of teacher education until his departure in 1957.
        During those years he was also a visiting professor, mostly during summer sessions, at Columbia University, New York University, the University of Puerto Rico, the University of Utah, the University of California at Berkeley, and State University of New York teacher colleges. Averting Dropouts
        He became dean of teacher education for New York City's college system in 1957, when it was elevated to university status, and remained at City University as dean until 1966, with time out for an eight-month stint as acting president of City College. He was credited with instituting programs to identify likely college dropouts and help them complete their studies. He moved to Fordham in 1966.
        He was the author of a dozen books and numerous articles. His many honors included the Townsend Harris Medal from City College and the George Johnson Award from Catholic University.
        He is survived by a son, Dr. Richard Rivlin of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Paula Glickman of Rye, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      