
        Buck Clayton, a jazz trumpeter who was a star of Count Basie's orchestra in the late 1930's and early 40's, died on Sunday at a friend's home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of natural causes, said the friend, Nancy Miller Elliott, who wrote his biography, "Buck Clayton's Jazz World."
        Mr. Clayton had been scheduled to lead his current Swing Band last Saturday afternoon at Park Avenue Plaza, 55 East 52d Street, but lapsed into a coma on Friday night. The band played without him under the direction of the saxophonist Jerry Dodgion.
        Mr. Clayton had a highly charged, bristling attack on trumpet that was softened by what the English critic Raymond Horricks called "phrases that seemed to sing with melody." To China and Back
        He started in music playing piano at the age of 6 in Parsons, Kan., where he was born and christened Wilbur.
        By the time he was 21, he was playing trumpet in a taxi dance hall in California, under the influence of Louis Armstrong and with some personal instruction from him. In the early 1930's he formed a 14-piece Ellington-influenced band in Los Angeles. It was heard by Teddy Weatherford, a legendary jazz pianist in Chicago in the 1920's, who later settled in China. Weatherford recruited Mr. Clayton and some of his musicians for his own band in Shanghai, where Mr. Clayton played from 1934 to 1936.
        Returning to the United States in 1936, Mr. Clayton stopped in Parsons to visit his mother and heard the newly developing Basie band in Kansas City. The band's trumpet star, Hot Lips Page, had just left Basie, and Mr. Clayton was asked to take his place. He liked the band -- "It was swinging but raggedy," he said -- and it was going to New York City, so he joined up. A Turn to Composing
        He stayed with Basie until 1943, when he went into the Army. During those seven years he developed a talent as an arranger with tunes like "It's Sand, Man," "Taps Miller" and "Red Bank Boogie." He also played in the groups that backed Billie Holiday on her early records.
        After World War II, he toured Europe and the United States with his own groups and as a featured sideman until 1969, when he had trouble playing because of problems with his teeth. Despite several attempts to regain his control of the trumpet, he eventually stopped playing, and in the 1980's he concentrated on composing and arranging. He formed a band in 1987, which he conducted in his own compositions and arrangements.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, of Queens; a daughter, Candice Bryson of Union City, Calif., and a sister, Jean Cherry of Kansas City, Mo.
      