
        Charles D. Breitel, Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals in the mid-1970's, under whom New York State's highest court grew in prestige, died on Sunday at Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Judge Breitel's death was caused by heart failure, his family said. He had a stroke in September 1990 and entered the nursing home two months later.
        A longtime Republican and a champion of judicial restraint, he was elected to the Court of Appeals in 1967, was elected its chief judge in 1973 and retired in 1978. While on the court he wrote a variety of important opinions, including one in 1977 that upheld a landmark designation for Grand Central Terminal. That ruling was later reaffirmed by the United States Supreme Court.
        The current Chief Judge, Sol Wachtler, said yesterday that Judge Breitel "was a brilliant jurist who will be remembered for his remarkable contributions to the jurisprudence of this state." An Appraisal
        Appraising the judge's tenure as Chief Judge, Tom Goldstein, then the legal correspondent for The New York Times, wrote late in 1978 that, with the lineup of judges having been the same for four years, the court had "recaptured its place among the top rank of state courts" after a period of eclipse. But Mr. Goldstein wrote that "no one suggests that Judge Breitel has brought it back to the reputation it enjoyed as the premier appellate court in the country when Benjamin Cardozo was Chief Judge" from 1927 to 1932.
        A holder of that post has one vote, the same as the other six judges, but the force of his legal thinking can mold a court much as Chief Justice Earl J. Warren influenced the Supreme Court in the 1960's.
        In his years on the Court of Appeals, Judge Breitel displayed intellectual rigor, fierce curiosity, an occasional quick temper and staunch faithfulness to legal precedents.
        A particularly noted opinion was one he wrote in 1972 that upheld the state's liberalized abortion law of 1970. Another important ruling written by him was one in 1975 that held that poor people wanting to get divorced were not entitled to be represented by lawyers paid from public funds.
        Judge Breitel also wrote an opinion in 1976 that invalidated a moratorium on $1 billion in New York City's short-term notes. In that ruling he wrote that although the city was in "dire straits," its financial woes were not in the same league as, for instance, "nuclear decimation." The decision set off a renewed and panicky scramble in New York City to hold off its numerous creditors. Law Degree From Columbia
        Charles David Breitel was born in New York City and went to its public schools. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and a law degree from Columbia University.
        From 1934 to 1950 he worked for Thomas E. Dewey, while Mr. Dewey was, successively, New York City's special rackets prosecutor, Manhattan District Attorney, briefly in private law practice, and then Governor of New York, from 1943.
        In 1950 Governor Dewey, a Republican, appointed him a judge of the State Supreme Court and said he possessed "the finest legal mind in the state." Judge Breitel was later elected and re-elected to that court.
        As Chief Judge, he was a strong proponent of changing the way of choosing that court's judges from popular election, which had long been the system, to having them appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the State Senate.
        Efforts to bring about that change bore fruit in the late 1970's, when New York State voters approved a constitutional amendment. In due course, Judge Breitel's successor as Chief Judge, Lawrence Cooke, was appointed by Gov. Hugh L. Carey.
        After he retired as Chief Judge, Judge Breitel was affiliated with the Manhattan law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn from 1978 to 1985.
        Judge Breitel is survived by his wife, the former Jeanne S. Hollander, to whom he was married in 1927; two daughters, Eleanor Breitel Alter, a lawyer specializing in family law with the Manhattan firm of Rosenman & Colin, and Vivian H. Breitel of Houston, and two grandsons.
      