
        Ken Keltner, the Cleveland third baseman whose backhanded stops of two hard grounders helped end Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak in 1941, was found dead in his Milwaukee apartment on Thursday.
        Mr. Keltner, who was 75 years old, apparently died of a heart attack, his family said. His body was discovered when he failed to show up at a nursing home for a regular visit with his wife, Evelyn, who suffered a stroke recently.
        During 13 major league baseball seasons, Mr. Keltner, who broke in with the Indians in 1937 and ended his career with one season with the Boston Red Sox in 1950, was named to the American League All-Star team seven times. He had a .276 career batting average, including .325 in 1939, and hit 163 home runs, including 31 in 1948, the year the Indians won the World Series.
        But nothing he ever accomplished could compare with what he did at Municipal Stadium on the night of July 17, 1941, when before 67,468 fans, the largest crowd to watch a night game up to that time, he attached himself to DiMaggio forever. Two Crucial Plays
        Cleveland's shortstop, Lou Boudreau, foiled the New York Yankee outfielder's last shot at extending his record in the eighth inning. But to DiMaggio, who went on to hit safely in the next 16 games, it was Keltner's two heroic stops of what seemed to be sure hits in the earlier innings that made the difference between a 56-game streak and a 73-game streak.
        Mr. Keltner was honored along with DiMaggio last summer during the 50th anniversary of the streak, and yesterday, Mr. DiMaggio recalled chiding his nemesis:
        "I didn't mind you playing so deep," Mr. DiMaggio said, "because you knew I wasn't going to bunt, but why were you playing me on the line?" Trying to Prevent a Double
        "All I was trying to do," Mr. Keltner replied, "was to prevent a two-base hit."
        A native of Milwaukee, Mr. Keltner was working as a truck driver and playing softball on the side in 1936 when scouts for the minor league Brewers became impressed with his fast reflexes and signed him to a contract. A year later, Cleveland signed him.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Keltner is survived by two sons, Randy and Jeff; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      