
        Frank R. Milliken, who led the Kennecott Copper Corporation through two turbulent decades, died on Dec. 4 at his new winter home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Milliken, whose primary residence was in Darien, Conn., arrived in Tucson two weeks before his death. He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        He headed Kennecott in the 1960's and 1970's when it was the world's largest producer of copper and a leading processor of gold and silver. During that era the company was buffeted by strikes that crippled production, the nationalization of its Chilean mines by President Salvador Allende Gossens, disputes over metal pricing, sharp market swings in copper suppply and demand, new environmental controls and protracted Federal antitrust action that forced divestment of the Peabody Coal subsidiary.
        Under Mr. Milliken's leadership, Kennecott staged a bold takeover of the Carborundum Company in 1977. But his biggest challenge came the next year when the tables were turned, with Kennecott as the takeover target. The Curtiss-Wright Corporation, taking advantage of stockholder dissatisfaction over Kennecott's declining earnings, began a bitter proxy fight to oust Mr. Milliken and his board of directors. Critics accused him of mismanagement and incompetence.
        But he dug in. At a contentious annual stockholders' meeting, his slate prevailed with 54 percent of the vote, results that Curtiss-Wright unsuccessfully disputed in court. The next year he retired, and a year after that Kennecott retaliated with a take-over move on Curtiss-Wright. Worked Aas aA Metallurgist
        Mr. Milliken was born in Malden, Mass., and graduated in 1934 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in mining engineering. He worked at M.I.T. for a year before going west as a metallurgist for Peru Mining Company in Deming, N.M., and General Engineering Company in Salt Lake City. He was hired by the National Lead Company in New York City in 1941.
        In 1952 he joined Kennecott's headquarters in Manhattan as vice president in charge of mining operations. In 1958 he was promoted to executive vice president and elected a director. He became president and chief executive in 1961 and added the title of chairman in 1978. He retired in 1979.
        He was also chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 1976 and 1977, was a director of Procter & Gamble and headed the United Fund of Greater New York in 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Kingsbury; two sons, Frank Jr., of Tucson, and David, of Laguna Niguel, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      