
        Richard Dyer-Bennet, a singer who helped revive the art and popularity of folk music in a career of concert performances, recordings, composing and teaching, died on Saturday at home in Monterey, Mass. He was 78 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Promoted as a 20th-century minstrel, he appeared at the Village Vanguard and other Manhattan clubs in the early 1940's with such modern pioneers in folk music as Woody Guthrie, Leadbelly, Burl Ives, Pete Seeger and Josh White.
        But he was the first to score the breakthrough of a major solo concert, filling Town Hall in 1944 and returning there often for many years. Another performance, at Carnegie Hall in 1944, prompted the impresario Sol Hurok to sign him for national and foreign tours for many years.
        His repertory of 600 songs, including more than 100 of his own compositions, encompassed diverse ditties, English sea chanteys, French love ballads, spirituals, cowboy music and Swedish shepherd tunes, among others. He sang classical numbers, delved into folk music dating back to the 13th century and relished reintroducing little-known songs. Small, Clear and Precise
        Critics praised the scholarship of his selections and arrangements as well as his performing skills. His high lyric tenor was not the strongest or richest voice, some critics noted. But they were struck by the clarity of his diction, the precision of his phrasing and the delicacy and feeling of his delivery.
        He modestly described his voice as "rather sweet but limited" and said he succeeded "in spite of my voice rather than because of it." A perfectionist, he found a new trainer who helped him use a fuller voice late in his career. But a stroke in 1972 limited his left hand, which he used in accompanying himself on the guitar, so he stopped giving concerts.
        Besides concerts and club appearances, he performed on radio and recorded about two dozen albums for various labels, including his own. He wrote articles and books and for 13 years taught at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I.
        Despite his identification as a folk singer, he disavowed that term for himself and for other modern performers, arguing that it should be reserved for truly indigenous musicians. He preferred to be known as a minstrel or troubadour. A Swedish Precedent
        He was born in England, and retained a slight British accent as he grew up in Canada and California. His maternal grandmother introduced him to classical music. A voice teacher who heard him singing Christmas carols suggested he model himself after Sven Scholander, a Swedish minstrel. So he began daily voice lessons, then travelled by freighter and bicycle Stockholm to find, and be encourage by, the retired master.
        En route home, he practiced with free concerts in coal-miner union halls in South Wales and learned their songs. He dropped out of college and began singing for women's clubs, school assemblies and "anywhere I could find an audience" before going to New York.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Melvene Ipcar; four daughters: Brooke and Bonnie, of Monterey; Ellen Wood of Richmond, and Eunice Davis of Davies, Fla.; a brother, John of Northfield, Minn.; a sister, Miriam May, of Toronto, and a grandson.
      