
        Jan Papanek, a prominent member of the democratic postwar Government of Czechoslovakia who made a dramatic exit as his country's United Nations delegate in 1948 and then devoted his efforts to the refugees from its Stalinist regime, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 95 years old.
        His family said he died after a prolonged illness.
        Mr. Papanek's role was acknowledged only last month by the reborn democracy in Prague when President Vaclav Havel honored him with the Thomas G. Masaryk Order, first class. The order was created by the Czechoslovak Republic after the fall of Communism to reward distinguished service to democracy.
        Mr. Papanek was an associate of President Eduard Benes and his Foreign Minister, Jan Masaryk, serving as the personal representative of President Benes in this country during World War II. He first came to the United States in 1936 as a member of the Czechoslovak Legation in Washington. Denouncer of Communism
        Mr. Papanek always took pride in being remembered for denouncing the Soviet-engineered Communist takeover of his country before the United Nations Security Council in 1948. The new authorities promptly branded him a traitor and cashiered him as Prague's representative to the United Nations, with which he had been associated since the organization's birth.
        But the coup led a spate of people to flee Czechoslovakia as the Communists tightened their grip. In response, Mr. Papanek founded the American Fund for Czechoslovak Refugees, which helped many thousands of them to find a new home.
        In more recent years, the agency assisted not only those of his countrymen who managed to slip out illegally, but Southeast Asian and Chinese refugees as well. Czechoslovak Legion
        Mr. Papanek's purpose was to get the new arrivals on the road to self-support as quickly as possible. He remained president of the humanitarian fund until five years ago, driving daily to his Manhattan office from his home.
        Mr. Papanek was born in Brezova in western Slovakia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. In World War I, he helped Gen. Milan Stefanik organize the Czechoslovak Legion, which fought the Austrians with the Allies on the Italian front.
        Mr. Papanek then completed his education, taking law degrees at the Sorbonne and in Prague. He entered the Prague Foreign Ministry in 1922. Role in Government-in-Exile
        After various assignments in and out of Prague, he was sent to Chicago by President Benes in 1939 to work toward the liberation of Czechoslovakia from its Nazi German occupiers. Two years later, he was named Minister Plenipotentiary in charge of the Czechoslovak Government-in-Exile Information Service in New York.
        He accompanied Mr. Masaryk to the San Francisco Conference that adopted the United Nations Charter in 1945 and became his country's representative at the United Nations the year after. During his tenure he also served as a member and acting president of the organization's Economic and Social Council.
        Mr. Papanek is survived by his wife of nearly 66 years, Betka, and a brother, Stefan, of Chicago.
      