
        John A. Blatnik, who sponsored major environmental and public works laws and led liberal causes in his 27-year career as a Democratic Congressman from Minnesota, died yesterday at his home in Forest Heights, Md. He was 80 years old.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Blatnik led the Democratic Study Group, a prominent liberal caucus in the House of Representatives, during some of its formative years in the 1960's. From 1971 to 1974, he was chairman of the House Public Works Committee.
        Among his chief legislative achievements were Federal aid for sewage treatment to reduce water pollution, the St. Lawrence Seaway that opened the Great Lakes to international shipping, the Niagara River power project and money for the interstate highway system. Critic of Vietnam War
        Among other causes that he strongly supported were opposition to the Vietnam War, nuclear-weapons control, parks expansion, control of oil spills, a proposed youth conservation corps, home rule for the District of Columbia and opposition to the anti-Communist hunts of the cold war.
        Although he was a smoker himself, he accused the tobacco industry in 1957 of deceptive advertising for its new filtered cigarettes. As chairman of the Government Operations Subcommittee, he also criticized the diet pill and tranquilizer industries. Later, as a member of the Public Works Committee, he investigated waste and corruption by several states in connection with Federal highway aid.
        Born in Chisholm, Minn., he grew up there and graduated from Winona State Teachers College in 1935. He later taught high school chemistry and assisted a rural school superintendent.
        In 1940, at the age of 29, he became the youngest member ever elected to the Minnesota State Senate. But he soon was off to take part in World War II, serving in the Army Air Corps and Office of Special Services.
        Because his parents were of Yugoslavian descent, he was familiar with the Slovenian and Serbo-Croatian languages. So he parachuted behind German lines to work with the Yugoslavian underground on intelligence and to set up a system that helped rescue nearly 400 downed airmen. His efforts earned him the rank of captain and numerous medals, including two Bronze stars. During the war he became acquainted with the man who would lead Yugoslavia after war, Marshal Tito.
        Mr. Blatnik first ran for Congress in 1946, on Minnesota's newly merged Democratic-Farmer-Labor ticket, and was the only Democrat elected that year in the state. He was re-elected continually until he retired in 1974, regularly winning by huge margins and sometimes without any opposing candidate.
        A major disappointment came in 1964 when, as the dean of the state's Congressional delegation, he failed in a bid to succeed Hubert H. Humphrey as a United States Senator. The winner was Walter F. Mondale, he later became Vice President and Presidential nominee.
        Mr. Blatnik cited health concerns in announcing his decision to leave Congress. He later became a consultant.
        Some environmental critics said he was too quiet about damage done by some major industries in his home district in northeastern Minnesota, a charge that he denied. He did succeed in sponsoring legislation that created the water pollution control program and that set aside billions of dollars for it.
        Mr. Blatnik is survived by his second wife, the former Evelyn Castiglioni; a brother, Frank, of Duluth, Minn., and three children from his first marriage: Thomas H., Stephanie and Valerie Blatnik, all of Arlington, Va.
      