
        Dr. J. McVicker Hunt, a psychologist whose research in the early development of children was a major influence in inaugurating Project Head Start in the 1960's, died Wednesday at the Clark-Lindsey retirement community in Urbana, Ill. He was 84 years old and had lived in Urbana since 1951.
        He died of the effects of a stroke suffered last month, said a spokesman for the University of Illinois, where Dr. Hunt was professor emeritus of psychology.
        In 1954, three years after leaving research and teaching posts in New York City to join the Illinois faculty, Dr. Hunt began to focus his studies on the effects of experiences on human development in infancy. In his book "Intelligence and Experience," published in 1961, he showed the importance of early experiences on children's psychological development and intelligence.
        The book was cited by education authorities as an important factor in persuading the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations to make the Head Start program a phase of the war on poverty. The program addresses the health, education and nutrition of poor preschool children,  Lectures Around the World
        Dr. Hunt's work was also credited with inspiring, both in the United States and abroad, a greater research on the role of early experience. Dr. Hunt lectured in West Germany, Sweden, Israel, Australia, Canada and South America.
        In 1962 Dr. Hunt was given a Research Career Award from the National Institute of Mental Health. He used the award to finance his studies until 1974, when he formally retired as a professor.
        In 1966 Dr. Hunt published, in collaboration with Ina C. Uzgiris, a former graduate student, "Assessment in Infancy." which described stages of a child's psychological development. Led Psycholociacal Association
        Joseph McVicker Hunt was born in Scottsbluff, Neb. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Nebraska and a doctorate from Cornell University. After he received National Research Council fellowships at the New York Psychiatric Institute and at Columbia University, among other institutions, Dr. Hunt joined the faculty of Brown University in 1936.
        In 1946 he became director of welfare research at the Community Service Society of New York, a post he held until 1951, when he was elected president of the American Psychological Association and went to Illinois.
        Dr. Hunt's wife, the former Esther Dahms, whom he married in 1929, died in 1985. He is survived by two daughters, Judith Ann, of Sonoma, Calif., and Carol Epple of Bedford, Mass.; two sisters, Lois Greenamyer of Lincoln, Neb., and Hester Williams of Cheyenne, Wyo., and a grandson,
      