
        John Graham, an architect whose designs included the Space Needle for the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle, died Tuesday at Swedish Medical Center in Seattle. He was 82 years old and lived in Seattle and on Bainbridge Island in Puget Sound.
        He died of heart disease, said a spokesman for his firm, John Graham Associates.
        He headed the firm until 1985 and continued working until a few weeks before his death.
        In the late 1940's Mr. Graham designed a shopping center -- Northgate, outside Seattle -- that became a prototype for others around the country. It had an outdoor pedestrian mall with stores on either side, bounded by parking lots. He also created the first revolving restaurant, in the Ala Moana Hotel in Honolulu.
        He had an office in New York City and was the designer of the Bergen Mall in Paramus, N.J., and Westchester Plaza in New Rochelle, N.Y. Changing Seattle's Skyline
        The Graham firm designed a number of major downtown buildings, including the Bank of California and the Sheraton and Westin Hotels in Seattle, Lloyds Center in Portland, Ore., and towers for the American International Assurance Company in Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
        His best-known design was that of the Space Needle, a 600-foot tower rising on three pairs of slender steel legs with a 200-seat restaurant at its crown that makes a complete revolution every hour.
        Mr. Graham was born in Seattle, attended the University of Washington and received a degree in fine arts and architecture from Yale. He worked for the Allied Stores Corporation in New York and Seattle before opening an architectural office.
        Ineligible for military service in World War II because of an arm injury, he built housing developments for war workers in Paterson, N.J., and Washington, D.C. In 1945 he took over direction of the Seattle architectural firm that had been founded by his father, John Graham Sr.
        Mr. Graham was a yachtsman who sailed in many races across the Atlantic and from the West Coast to Hawaii. He owned several boats, including an 86-foot aluminum-hulled sloop built for him in France.
        He is survived by two daughters, Jane Sutherland of Mercer Island, Wash., and Barbara Graham of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a son, John T. Graham of Seattle, and seven grandchildren.
      