
        Robert Di Giorgio, former head of the Di Giorgio Corporation, a billion-dollar family-owned concern with interests in food, drug, building materials and real estate businesses, died on Wednesday in San Francisco. He was 79 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        He died of complications from surgery performed in 1988, his family said, and had been in nursing homes for more than a year.
        Mr. Di Giorgio joined the Di Giorgio Fruit Company, from which the corporation grew, in 1937. The business was founded in the San Joaquin Valley of California in 1920 by Joseph Di Giorgio, who built it into the country's largest grower of produce.
        Robert Di Giorgio became president of the company in 1962. Three years later, in the midst of a bitter struggle by farm workers led by Cesar Chavez to organize for collective bargaining with grape growers, Mr. Di Giorgio broke ranks with his fellow employers to declare that the workers should be represented by a union.
        He favored the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, but that union largely lost out to a coalition formed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. that included the Chavez forces. Mr. Di Giorgio agreed to a contract with the union and other employers followed.
        Mr. Di Giorgio, a native New Yorker, was a graduate of the Lawrenceville School and Yale University, and held a law degree from Fordham University. He spent most of his working life with the family concern, which grew to more than 30 divisions around the world. He became chairman and chief executive in 1971 and retired in 1982.
        One of Mr. Di Giorgio's principal divisions was the White Rose Food Company, the largest independent wholesaler of groceries in the New York metropolitan area. White Rose was sold last year.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Kuhrts; four daughters, Ann Costigan of San Francisco, Barbara Di Giorgio of Danville, Calif., Christine Timmerman of Atherton, Calif., and Dorothy Moore of Menlo Park, Calif.; a sister, Dorothy Gretsch of Jupiter, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      