
        John A. McCone, a West Coast businessman who became chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and later the Director of Central Intelligence, died Thursday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 89 years old.
        He died of cardiac arrest, said his secretary, Chris Balog.
        Mr. McCone headed the Atomic Energy Commission from 1958 to 1960 and the Central Intelligence Agency from 1961 to 1965, holding two of the most sensitive high positions in Washington. He was widely credited with being the first Government official to foresee that the Soviet Union would place offensive weapons on Cuba, a move that set off the Cuban missile crisis in 1962. As chairman of the atomic energy panel a few years earlier, he sought to reach agreement with the Soviet Union to stop testing of nuclear weapons. 'Sharp, Tough and Demanding'
        William H. Webster, the current Director of Central Intelligence, said yesterday that Mr. McCone had made "an enormous contribution" to United States security.
        "He guided the intelligence community during a particularly trying time," Mr. Webster said. "Mr. McCone was sharp, tough and demanding -- qualities that made him a highly effective and widely respected leader. His long and distinguished career in Government was marked by excellence, integrity and selfless devotion to duty."
        John Alex McCone was born in San Francisco on Jan. 4, 1902. He received an engineering degree from the University of California at Berkeley. He worked as a riveter and boilermaker and rose to superintendent of a Los Angeles iron company that merged with the Consolidated Steel Corporation in 1929. By 1933 Mr. McCone was executive vice president of Consolidated.
        In 1937 he left the steel business to form an engineering concern, Bechtel-McCone, with Stephen Bechtel. The company, which disbanded after World War II, designed and built refineries, power plants and other projects across the United States and in South America and the Middle East.  It expanded into shipbuilding and aircraft production in the war.
        After the war ended, he moved into overseas shipping as president of the Joshua Hendy Corporation. Millionaire With Wide Interests
        He was a millionaire with varied business interests when President Harry S. Truman appointed him to the Air Policy Commission in 1947. The following year he was named a special deputy to James V. Forrestal, the Secretary of Defense. In 1950 he was made Under Secretary of the Air Force.
        In that post he urged President Truman to start a program of building guided missiles and put the program under a single director with full authority. That was not done, and later, critics of the missile program suggested that the "missile gap" between the United States and the Soviet Union in the late 1950's and early 1960's might not have developed if Mr. McCone's recommendation had been followed.
        He returned to private business in 1951 but continued to serve Washington on special missions. In mid-1958 President Dwight D. Eisenhower chose him to succeed Lewis Strauss as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. Sought a Nuclear Test Ban
        In his two years overseeing all the nation's atomic energy programs, the United States started its "Atoms for Peace" initiative, an effort to direct nuclear power to peaceful purposes, and he sought to reach agreement with the Soviet Union on banning nuclear weapons tests. Mr. McCone issued a stern warning shortly after he took over that the United States would continue nuclear testing unless the Soviets agreed to a one-year test ban.
        Although achieving a test ban proved elusive, Mr. McCone was able to sign an agreement with the Soviets in 1959 for a cooperative program of nuclear research. He had earlier reached agreement with Euratom, the six-nation European atomic-energy community, on a joint nuclear power and research development program.
        Mr. McCone returned again to private life when President Eisenhower left office. But in the fall of 1961, several months after the ill-fated Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba by American-back opponents of Fidel Castro, President John F. Kennedy called upon Mr. McCone to serve as the sixth Director of Central Intelligence. He replaced Allen W. Dulles.
        Although a Republican, Mr. McCone had unrestricted access to the Democratic President. Unlike Mr. Dulles, Mr. McCone emphasized the intelligence collecting and analytical aspects of the C.I.A. rather than its clandestine and covert activities. As John Ranelagh remarked in his 1987 book on the C.I.A., "Agency: The Rise and Decline of the C.I.A.," Mr. McCone brought to his new job "the skills of a manager, a keen intelligence and a strong personal self-confidence. Restored C.I.A.'s Credibility
        These qualities were demonstrated in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962. The C.I.A. had been in disfavor at the White House since the failed invasion of Cuba in April 1961. By being first with a warning that the Soviet Union was planning to put offensive missiles in Cuba, Mr. McCone re-established the C.I.A.'s credibility, particularly with President Kennedy and his brother, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy.
        Mr. McCone served through the Kennedy Administration and, after the assassination of the President in November 1963, he continued under President Lyndon B. Johnson. But the rapport he had enjoyed under President Eisenhower and then with President Kennedy was missing with the new President.
        In his book, Mr. Ranelagh observed that President Johnson operated differently from his predecessor. While Mr, Kennedy started his day with a C.I.A. intelligence summary from Mr. McCone and appreciated when the C.I.A. director injected bits of humor, Mr. Johnson wanted an intelligence rundown at the end of the day and did not relish any asides.
        By the spring of 1965, Mr. Ranelagh wrote, Mr. McCone had concluded that the President did not depend heavily on intelligence provided by the agency, relying instead on his National Security Council advisers. So Mr. McCone again returned to private life.
        People in and out of Government have generally credited Mr. McCone with buliding an effective, well-managed agency and, in retrospect, have ranked him as one of the strongest C.I.A. directors. Views on Vietnam War
        On the Vietnam war, as on most other issues facing the country, Mr. McCone held strong views and expressed them forcefully. His executive assistant at the C.I.A., Walter Elder, recalled yesterday that when Mr. McCone left the Johnson Administration in 1965, he wrote the President to warn that heavy bombing would eventually turn public opinion against the United States. Although he personally thought that an all-out war would not be a good idea, he argued that because of the instability of the South Vietnamese government, such an effort might be necessary.
        Back in private life, Mr. McCone resumed his business activities, becoming chairman of the Hendy International Company and serving as a director of several companies, including International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation.
        In 1973 he was called before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to testify in an inquiry into whether I.T.T. and other multinational companies had tried to bring about the downfall of the Marxist Government of Chile under Salvador Allende Gossens. Testifying about $1 million that was offered by I.T.T. to the United States for use in Chile, Mr. McCone insisted that the money was to build housing and to assist agriculture, not to bribe members of the Chilean Congress who would help bring down Mr. Allende.
        In 1987 Mr. McCone was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by President Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. McCone's first wife, the former Rosemary Cooper, whom he married in 1938, died in 1961. He married Theiline Pigott in 1962; she died last April. He is survived by a sister, Mary Louise Shelby of El Toro, Calif., and by three stepdaughters, Ann Wyckoff, Theiline Scheumann and Mary Ellen Hughes, and two stepsons, Charles and James Pigott, all of Seattle.
        A private funeral service is planned.
      