
        Eugene Fodor, whose travel guides have been carried by tourists to the far corners of the world for more than half a century, died last night at the Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, Conn. He was 85 years old and lived in Litchfield, Conn.
        He died of a brain tumor, said a business associate, Robert Fisher.
        Mr. Fodor's approach to travel writing was set forth in his first book, "1936 . . . On the Continent," a guide to Europe for British travelers that he published in London. The joy of travel, he wrote, should not be derived solely from seeing "the sights," but from mingling with "peoples whose customs, habits and general outlook are different from your own."
        Between "On the Continent" and Mr. Fodor's retirement a decade ago, the number of Fodor guides grew to more than 140 titles, many in languages other than English. Roughly 200 million Fodor guides, now published in the United States by Random House, are sold each year. Spoke 5 Languages
        Mr. Fodor was born in Leva, Hungary, now part of Czechoslovakia. He left as a youth to study political economics at the Sorbonne and at the University of Grenoble in France. A desire to travel and an ability to speak five languages led him to work as an interpreter for a French shipping line.
        In his spare time he wrote articles for the line's in-house magazine about life aboard ship and visits to exotic ports. Soon he was selling articles to newspapers in Hungary and France.
        In 1934, while working for the Aldor Publishing Company in London, he suggested a guidebook to the Continent that would contain the "human element" he found lacking in guides of the day.
        The book was a success, and in 1938, when it was published for American travelers, it became a best seller. He was in the United States on a business trip that year, and when Nazi Germany annexed the Sudetenland in Czechoslovakia, he concluded that World War II was imminent.
        He stayed in the United States, went into the Army in 1942 and served five years in the intelligence branch, emerging a captain.  A C.I.A. Link Charged
        Three decades later E. Howard Hunt Jr., the former Central Intelligence Agency operative who figured in the Watergate scandal, asserted that Mr. Fodor had been a C.I.A. agent, which Mr. Fodor denied. He declined to comment, however, on Mr. Hunt's contention that the Fodor guides had provided operating cover for American intelligence agents abroad.
        In 1950 the David McKay Company in New York began publishing a series of Fodor guides to individual countries, and Mr. Fodor set up a Paris headquarters. The first four guides covered France, Switzerland and Italy and, in a move that angered the Irish, combined Britain and Ireland in a single book. Subsequent guides dealt separately with Ireland.
        Mr. Fodor returned to the United States in 1964 to live in Litchfield, Conn., and began compiling travel books about this country.
        "America is still a little-known and little-understood country, and we don't do much to promote ourselves abroad," he said at the time. "We may go to Europe to visit our past, but the rest of the world comes to America to see their future."
        Mr. Fodor is survived by his wife, the former Vlasta Zobel, whom he married in 1948.
      