
        Louis Orth Kelso, a lawyer and economist who sought to revolutionize capitalism through employee stock ownership plans, which he invented, died on Sunday at the Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 77 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        He died of a heart ailment, said a spokesman for Kelso & Company, where Mr. Kelso was chairman.
        For nearly 50 years Mr. Kelso propounded his theory of worker-capitalists, in which workers would borrow money to buy capital assets, including exisiting companies that are automating and eliminating jobs. A Reward for Company
        "The employee stock ownership plan, known as ESOP, was invented to democratize access to capital credit," Mr. Kelso and his wife, Patricia Hetter Kelso, wrote in 1989 in The New York Times.
        "In human terms, it is a financing device that gradually transforms labor workers into capital workers. It does this by making a corporation's credit available to the employees, who then use it to buy stock in the company. The earnings of the company itself are used to pay for the stock. The company's reward from an ESOP -- in addition to a motivated work force of worker/owners -- is the low-cost financing of its own capital needs."
        The first employee stock ownership plan was put into effect by Mr. Kelso in 1956 to enable the employees of Peninsula Newspapers Inc. in Palo Alto, Calif., to buy the newspaper chain. It has since been used by hundreds of companies, including Avis, Exxon, Standard Oil of California and Atlantic Richfield.
        Born in Denver on Dec. 4, 1913, Mr. Kelso received degrees in finance and law from the University of Colorado. He practiced law in Denver with Pershing, Bosworth, Dick & Dawson from 1938 to 1942 and after serving in the Navy in World War II, briefly taught constitutional law and municipal finance at the University of Colorado.
        He then moved to San Francisco and became a partner with the law firm of Kelso, Cotton, Seligman & Ray. In 1970, after he failed to persuade conventional banking investors to adopt ownership-broadening financing techniques, he founded Louis O. Kelso Inc. to promote employee stock ownership plans and also founded Kelso Bangert & Company, investment bankers.  Presidency of Institute
        Kelso Bangert & Company eventually became Kelso & Company, and Mr. Kelso served as managing director and chief executive. He was also president of the Kelso Institute for Economic Research and was a board member of the Institute for Philosophical Research in Chicago.
        It was during his years in the Navy, as an intelligence officer in Panama, that Mr. Kelso first formulated his concept of employee ownership. The idea remained relatively dormant until the mid-1950's, when he met the philosopher Mortimer J. Adler. Together they wrote "The Capitalist Manifesto," published by Random House in 1958. They wrote a second book, "The New Capitalists: A Proposal to Free Economic Growth from the Slavery of Savings," published in 1961 by Random House.
        Mr. Kelso refined and expanded on his idea in a third book, "The Two-Factor Theory: The Economics of Reality," published by Random House in 1968. This book, also titled "How to Turn Eighty Million Workers into Capitalists on Borrowed Money," was written with Patricia Hetter, whom he later married.  Push for New Laws
        They also collaborated on "Democracy and Economic Power: Extending the ESOP Revolution Through Binary Economics," published by Ballinger Press in 1986 and reissued in January by University Press of America.
        Mr. Kelso was instrumental in having Federal and state laws passed to encourage expanded employee stock ownership. He also helped push for changes in the tax laws that were beneficial to employee stock ownership plans.
        In addition to his wife, Patricia, he leaves two daughters from a previous marriage, Martha Brookman of Woodside, Calif., and Katie Balestreri of San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
      