
        John Sherman Cooper, a liberal Republican from Kentucky who represented his state in the Senate for more than two decades, died in a Washington retirement home on Thursday. He was 89 years old.
        His brother, Richard, said Mr. Cooper died of heart failure.
        Throughout his long career in the Senate, Mr. Cooper, a patrician Kentuckian who served his country in diplomatic posts as well as in Congress, maintained a reputation for absolute independence.
        His first roll-call vote, transferring investigatory powers to a special War Investigation Committee soon after World War II, went against the wishes of his party's leaders. So did his second vote, which prompted Senator Robert A. Taft, Republican of Ohio, to storm up the aisle and demand: "Are you a Republican or a Democrat? When are you going to start voting with us?"
        "If you'll pardon me," Senator Cooper replied, "I was sent here to represent my constituents, and I intend to vote as I think best." Led Opposition to McCarthy
        In the years that followed, Senator Cooper proved that he meant what he said. He was one of the first Republicans in the Senate to denounce Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin for the tactics of Mr. McCarthy's anti-Communist campaign. When it was unpopular to do so, Mr. Cooper also opposed legislation to remove from reluctant witnesses the Fifth Amendment's protection against compelled self-incrimination.
        In the Vietnam War, Mr. Cooper joined with a Democratic, Senator, Frank Church of Idaho, in drafting the Cooper-Church amendment, which was aimed at barring further United States military action in Cambodia.
        Mr. Cooper worked quietly, avoiding histrionics. He left behind no ringing calls to action, perhaps because he was, by his own admission, "a truly terrible public speaker." On the rare occasions when he did take the Senate floor, he was often inaudible. He mumbled and swallowed his words, and apparently made no effort to avoid use of Kentucky dialect in which "great" sounded like "grett," "government" became "guv-ment," and "revenue" was pronounced "rev-noo."
        Mr. Cooper was born on Aug. 11, 1901, in Somerset, the seat of Pulaski County in Kentucky. He was named for his father, the wealthiest man in town. The elder Mr. Cooper, like his own father and grandfather before him, was a county judge and a circuit judge, and it was always assumed that the next generation of Coopers would provide the county its leaders.
        After a year at Centre College in Danville, Ky., Mr. Cooper went to Yale, where he was captain of the basketball team, and in 1923 was voted most likely to succeed. Forced to Leave Harvard
        He went on to Harvard Law School but had to withdraw in 1925 after learning from his dying father that the recession of 1920 had virtually wiped out the family's resources.
        Assuming his father's debts, Mr. Cooper sold the family mansion. Over the next 25 years he paid off the debts and sent six brothers and sisters to college. He passed the state bar examination and was admitted to law practice in 1928.
        Mr. Cooper won his first elective office in 1927, a two-year term in the Kentucky Legislature. From 1930 to 1938 he served as county judge, a powerful local administrative post that controlled county patronage.
        Mr. Cooper was elected three times to fill unexpired terms in the United States Senate. The first was in 1946, after A. B. (Happy) Chandler resigned to become commissioner of baseball. Mr. Cooper failed to win in the 1948 general election, but in 1952 he was elected to fill the unexpired term of Virgil Chapman.
        In the next general election he was defeated by Alben W. Barkley, a Democrat who was Vice President under Harry S. Truman, but Mr. Barkley subsequently died and Mr. Cooper was elected to fill his unexpired term in 1956. Mr. Cooper's Senate service continued until his retirement in 1973. Service in Military Government
        In 1942, after he had campaigned unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination for governor, Mr. Cooper enlisted in the Army as a private. Earning a commission in Officer Candidate School, he was assigned to a military government unit. After Germany surrendered, he was put in charge of reorganizing the court system of Bavaria. While in the Army he married a registered nurse, Evelyn Pfaff. They were divorced in 1949.
        Mr. Cooper's brief first stint in the Senate won him friends, among them Arthur Vandenberg, a Republican maverick, and President Truman. In 1949 Mr. Truman made Mr. Cooper a delegate to the United Nations; in subsequent years Mr. Cooper served in other missions to the United Nations and as a special assistant to Secretary of State Dean Acheson.
        In 1955, shortly before he had become Ambassador to India and Nepal, Mr. Cooper married the former Lorraine Rowan Shevlin, a Washington social figure. But their stay in Asia lasted only a year because, after the death of Mr. Barkley, President Dwight D. Eisenhower summoned Mr. Cooper back to Kentucky to run for Mr. Barkley's unexpired term.
        In the 17 years of Senate service that followed, Mr. Cooper, a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, generally followed the liberal internationalist line on foreign policy. In so doing, he was often in conflict with Old Guard Republicans, notably Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen of Illinois. In 1959 Mr. Cooper sought to become Republican leader of the Senate, but Mr. Dirksen defeated him by four votes. Limits on Combat Troops
        Perhaps Mr. Cooper's greatest Senate victory was his move in 1969 to bar the use of United States combat troops from the fighting in Laos and Thailand.
        At first it appeared that the Cooper drive had little chance of success, but after Mr. Cooper had enlisted the aid of Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana, the leader of the Democratic majority, the measure was passed by the Senate and then the House, and President Richard M. Nixon signed it into law.
        After leaving office early in 1973, Mr. Cooper joined the Washington law firm of Covington & Burling. Mr. Nixon chose him to be the first United States Ambassador to East Germany shortly after Washington formally recognized that Government. But Mr. Nixon was forced from office in 1974 before he could make the actual appointment, and it was his successor, President Gerald R. Ford, who did so. Mr. Cooper remained in the East German post for two years.
        He is survived by his brother, who still lives in Somerset, and a niece, Rebecca Spencer, of Lexington, Ky.
      