
        Dr. Robert J. Havighurst, an educator and researcher who wrote about the sociological aspects of youth and old age, died Thursday in Richmond, Ind. He was 90 years old.
        He died of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Havighurst was a professor of education and psychology at the University of Chicago for more than four decades. He retired in 1983 but continued to teach and conduct research until last year.
        Although he was trained as a chemist and a physicist and was a professor of science education, he became interested in the broader aspects of general education.
        In 1949 he wrote "Personal Adjustment in Old Age," in which he urged people to find ways to switch roles as they aged. His 1954 book, "The Meaning of Work and Retirement," sounded the theme that "as retirement takes away work, people must learn to get new satisfactions in place of old ones." An Advocate of Integration
        He also wrote books about the transition from adolescence to adulthood and the adjustment of veterans to civilian life.
        Dr. Havighurst was an early advocate of integrated public schools, and believed they were crucial in creating opportunities for poor children. In a speech in 1962 he said that "the quality of performance of children in school depends on the socioeconomic character of the school, independent of the socioeconomic status of the child."
        Dr. Havigjurst was born in De Pere, Wis., graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University and received his doctorate from Ohio State. He taught at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, the University of Wisconsin and Ohio State University before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1941.
        In 1947 he studied social and economic conditions in Germany and was director of the Rockefeller Foundation's European Rehabilitation Program. In 1956 and 1957 he was co-director of the Brazilian Government's effort to prepare a national system of elementary and secondary schools .
        Dr. Havighurst, who lived in Evanston, Ill., is survived by three daughters, Helen Berk, of Jacksonville, Fla., Dorothy Kucera, of Evanston and Ruth Neff, of Richmond; two sons, James of Christchurch, New Zealand, and Walter of Manhattan; two brothers, Walter of Richmond and Alfred of Amherst, Mass., a sister, Miriam Johnson, of Batavia, Ill., and 16 grandchildren.
      