
        John Griggs, a consultant who advised New York City officials on AIDS policy, died of the disease on Thursday night at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Griggs was an analyst in the controversial 1988 revision of how many New York City residents were infected with the AIDS virus. The revised number of 200,000, which he helped calculate for the New York City AIDS Task Force, cut the prior estimate in half.
        When the City Health Commissioner, who was then Dr. Stephen C. Joseph, announced the revision, many private AIDS organizations objected. Some charged that the numbers were reduced in response to pressure for more city spending on AIDS. Health officials denied that, and in time the new figure gained more acceptance.
        For the last six years, Mr. Griggs had worked for the United Hospital Fund, a nonprofit agency. There he edited one of the first books on AIDS policy, "AIDS Public Policy Dimensions," and a volume on volunteer efforts, "Simple Acts of Kindness." For the Citizens Commission on AIDS, he helped draft guidelines for employers, which were adopted by several major corporations. He served on city, state and national AIDS committees.
        'With Courage and Dignity'
        Bruce C. Vladeck, the hospital fund's president, said Mr. Griggs "contributed enormously to a better understanding" of the epidemic, and waged his own battle with AIDS "with courage and dignity."
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Griggs had been a researcher and personal assistant to the film critic Judith Crist. He wrote "The Films of Gregory Peck" (Citadel Press, 1984), and with Joe Morella and Edward Z. Epstein, "The Films of World War II" (Citadel Press, 1973).
        Architecture and landscape photography was Mr. Griggs's avocation. He helped lead the successful campaign to save the Art Deco Fox Theater in Atlanta from demolition.
        Born in Greenville, Ga., Mr. Griggs attended Oglethorpe University in Atlanta and moved to New York in 1968. He is survived by his mother, Norma Griggs of Greenville, and two brothers, Thomas, of Marietta, Ga., and Bill, of Tupelo, Miss. His companion, Richard Christian, died of AIDS in November.
        A memorial is planned for noon on March 2 at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, where Mr. Griggs helped form a congregation council and had served as its president.
      