
        George Gobel, the bristle-haired entertainer whose 60-year career encompassed singing on the radio, his own television show and regular appearances as a panelist on the "Hollywood Squares" game show, died yesterday at Encino Hospital in California. He was 71 years old.
        He died of complications after bypass surgery on the major artery in his left leg, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Gobel's earliest ambition, to be a professional baseball player, abruptly changed when at the age of 11 he was chosen to be a featured singer on the WLS "National Barn Dance" radio show after performing on the station, in Chicago, with his church choir.  Short Hair and Folksy Humor
        In the early part of his show business career, Mr. Gobel stuck to singing and strumming his guitar. But while serving as a B-26 pilot instructor on an isolated Army Air Forces base in Oklahoma during World War II, he acquired the crew cut that became his hallmark and honed a folksy humor on a captive audience.
        The job market for commercial pilots was glutted after the war, so Mr. Gobel parlayed his routine of songs and stumbling, deadpan patter from a tryout at the U.S.O. to nightclub acts and television appearances. After several guest appearances on the "Garry Moore Show," "Toast of the Town" and other television revues, he was signed by NBC for "The George Gobel Show" in 1954.
        That year he won an Emmy Award as Outstanding New Personality, and at the time some newspaper commentators credited him with launching Johnny Carson, who was hired as CBS's answer to Mr. Gobel. After his own program was canceled, Mr. Gobel made several appearances on Mr. Carson's show.  Lonesome George Emerges
        The comedy show, which introduced Mr. Gobel's melancholy alter ego, Lonesome George, lasted three years. For two more years, he starred in an hourlong television comedy show with Eddie Fisher and then went back to performing in nightclubs and making guest appearances.
        After seven years of regular network appearances, Mr. Gobel had earned a national reputation and a substantial fortune. Although he never again achieved such widespread popular fame, he continued playing nightclubs and hotels and making guest appearances on television shows.
        Mr. Gobel starred in several Broadway plays, including "The Odd Couple," "Three Men on A Horse" and "Let It Ride." He was a regular on the game show "Hollywood Squares" in the 1970's and 80's.  Odd Stint as Political Analyst
        He even worked for a brief period as a political analyst. In 1964, Mr. Gobel appeared in a commercial advertising Xerox copiers that was shown during the Republican convention and gained the attention of ABC executives. They hired him to add levity to the analysis of the Democratic convention by the veteran political commentators Edward P. Morgan and Howard K. Smith later that summer.
        Mr. Gobel is survived by his wife, Alice, whose foibles as "Spooky Ol' Alice" became familiar to viewers of his television show; his son, Gregg; two daughters, Georgia Bryan and Leslie McIntosh, and three grandchildren.
      