
        John A. Hannah, the former president of Michigan State University who fought world hunger and served as the first chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, died Saturday at a son's home in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 88 years old.
        Dr. Hannah died of cancer, a family member said. He had been living at the home of his son Robert since the death of his wife, Sarah, on Oct. 29.
        "He showed us that the world is our campus and that men and women throughout the globe are our brothers and sisters," said John DiBiaggio, the president of Michigan State. "John Hannah's guide to administration and to service was his often-stated view 'that only people are important.' " A Leader in Growth
        As president of Michigan State from 1941 to 1969, Dr. Hannah set the standard for a modern land-grant university and guided it through its greatest period of growth, from a Midwest agricultural college of 6,000 students to an internationally respected university with an enrollment of more than 40,000.
        An ardent football fan, he led Michigan State into the Big Ten conference in 1949. His interest in football and other sports led him to head a group of college presidents who investigated the recruiting and subsidization problems in intercollegiate athletics.
        He served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Personnel in 1953 and 1954 and was responsible, in large part, for the plan passed by Congress in 1955 to set up the military reserves program. He also directed a program to complete racial integration of the armed forces and of civilian personnel within the services.
        He was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., on Oct. 9, 1902. He worked in his family's chicken hatchery and greenhouse business before entering what was then called Michigan Agricultural College. Upon graduation in 1923, and for the next 10 years, he was an extension specialist for the college in poultry husbandry.
        The college was renamed Michigan State College of Agriculture and Applied Science in 1925, and he became secretary of the school's governing body.
        In 1941, he succeeded his father-in-law, Robert S. Shaw, as president of the college, and began an extensive building campaign on the East Lansing campus, where he became known affectionately by the students and staff as Uncle John. He ordered the door removed from his office so that everyone would feel free to enter for a talk.
        He directed the integration of dormitories, ordered racial designations struck from student records and refused to allow athletic teams to play in places where minority players might be deprived of equal rights.
        He was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower as the first chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 1957. He continued as chairman for 12 years under three more Presidents.
        He retired as president of Michigan State to accept a presidential appointment as administrator of the United States Agency for International Development; he remained in that post from 1969 to 1973. He then accepted a position at the United Nations, where he served as director of the World Food Council from 1975 to 1978.
        Dr. Hannah often told assistance program officials, "A real assistance is not to give them fish, but to teach them how to fish."
        He was survived by a daughter, Mary Curzan, of Chevy Chase, Md., three sons, Robert W. of Kalamazoo, Thomas A. of Dallas, and David K. of Glen Ellyn, Ill., eleven grandchildren and a sister, Julia Vandenburg of East Lansing, Mich.
      