
        Irving McClure Johnson, a yachtsman whose many years of adventures aboard sailing ships were chronicled in books and televison films, died yesterday at the Meadowood Nursing Home in Hadley, Mass. He was 85 years old and lived in Hadley.
        He died of complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Electa, said.
        Mr. Johnson, a retired captain in the United States Naval Reserve, was the owner and master of three sailing vessels, each of which carried the name Yankee. They were a 92-foot schooner, a 96-foot brigantine and a 50-foot steel-hulled ketch.
        Beginning in 1933, Mr. Johnson made three round-the-world cruises aboard the schooner and from 1947 to 1958 he made four more aboard the brigantine. The trips lasted about 18 months each and the crews usually consisted of Mr. Johnson, his wife, their two children and about 25 amateur sailors, men and women of college age.  Discovery of Bounty Anchor
        He made films of his voyages and described them in words and pictures to audiences in the United States and Canada. Adventures included the discovery of the anchor of the H. M. S. Bounty in 50 feet of water off Pitcairn Island, where mutineers from the British warship had scuttled the vessel; the discovery of five previously uncharted islands near North Borneo and diving to a depth of 200 feet.
        He also wrote books and articles for National Geographic magazine, which produced two films for national television depicting the voyages.
        The Johnsons discontinued oceangoing cruises in 1959 and outfitted the ketch to sail the inland waters of Europe. Their later books included "Yankee Sails Across Europe," published by Norton in 1962 and "Yankee Sails the Nile," published by Norton in 1966.
        Born in Hadley on July 4, 1905, Mr. Johnson began his sea adventures in 1929 when he went on a 93-day voyage from Germany to Chile around Cape Horn in a 345-foot, four-masted bark, the Peking. The vessel is on display at the South Street Seaport Museum in Lower Manhattan. In 1930 he served as mate aboard the Shamrock V, an America's Cup challenger that was returning to England and had to battle hurricane winds in the North Atlantic. In World War II, he served in the Navy and commanded a survey ship making hydrographic charts of the Pacific Ocean.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Arthur, of Northampton, Mass., and Robert, of Sherborn, Mass; two sisters, Margaret Rutter of Hadley and Katherine Kay of Bethesda, Md., and five grandchildren.
      