
        Pete Axthelm, a columnist, television sports commentator and author, died on Saturday at Presbyterian-University Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 47 years old and lived in New York City and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
        Mr. Axthelm died of complications caused by liver failure, said Mike Soltys, a spokesman for ESPN, the cable sports network where Mr. Axthelm had worked as a sports commentator since 1987. He had been awaiting a liver transplant at the hospital when he died.
        Beginning as a horse-racing writer and sports columnist, Mr. Axthelm was perhaps best known for the 20 years he spent editing and writing for Newsweek magazine, where he created a body of sports reporting and commentary that was regarded as both insightful and witty. That experience and his book writing led to television appearances as a sports commentator for NBC and ESPN in later years.  Basketball as Metaphor
        "Mr. Axthelm is a poet," John Leonard wrote in a 1970 New York Times review of the author's book, "The City Game, Basketball in New York" (Harper's Magazine Press). It combined an account of the championship season of the New York Knicks with a study of the glories and hardships of basketball as played in ghetto playgrounds and the great stars who became neighborhood legends but never played professionally.
        "Axthelm's eye is cinemascopic, his prose precise; the mind is instructed while the emotions are exhausted," wrote Mr. Leonard. "On finishing his book, you'll want to practice your jump shot. You will be aware of some beauty. You will be nagged by a knowledge of the economy (energy, money, fate) that makes basketball a metaphor for city life."
        After graduating from Yale in 1965, Mr. Axthelm joined The New York Herald Tribune as a racing writer and columnist. In 1966 he moved to Sports Illustrated as a staff writer.
        He worked at Newsweek from 1968 to 1988, first as sports editor and then as a columnist and contributing editor, followed by a brief period at People magazine.
        From 1980 to 1985 he worked for NBC Sports as a commentator on National Football League pre-game shows and horse racing as well as reporting on sports for the "Today" show.
        In 1987, he joined ESPN, where he did N.F.L. commentary and covered horse racing on "NFL GameDay" and "NFL PrimeTime."
        Other books include "The Modern Confessional Novel" (Yale University, 1967); "Tennis Observed: The U.S,L.T.A. Men's Singles Champions, 1881-1966" with William F. Talbert (Barre Publishers, 1967), and "The Kid," a portrait of the racing prodigy Steve Cauthen (Bantam, 1978).
        He is survived by his wife, Andrea, and daughter, Megan.
      