
        Rabbi Nathan A. Perilman, who for 41 years was the spiritual leader of Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan, one of the most prominent Reform temples in the world, died yesterday at the Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 85 years old and had lived in Chapel Hill, N.C., since retiring in 1973.
        He died of heart failure after suffering a heart attack in January, his daughter, Bonnie Neschis of Hartsdale, N.Y., said.
        Rabbi Perilman came to Congregation Emanu-El as an assistant rabbi in 1932, a month before his ordination as a rabbi.
        "My appointment was for only four months through the summer and the High Holy Day season," he recalled in an interview after his retirement was announced. An Eloquent Speaker
        Over the years at Temple Emanu-El, he had a profound effect on the congregation. As an assistant rabbi, associate rabbi and later senior rabbi, he shared in all the responsibilities and functions of the temple, at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street. He was an eloquent speaker and in the early part of his career devoted himself to the work of the temple's auxiliary groups and the congregation's religious school.
        He began the temple's first midweek religious school, on Wednesday afternoons, for children who found it difficult to attend the usual Sunday morning sessions, and he resumed bar mitzvahs, which the congregation had discontinued in 1875. He added a bas mitzvah ceremony for girls and started an adult education program of Sunday afternoon lectures.
        He was also active in interfaith activities and in 1953, along with clergy from other faiths, visited West Germany as a specialist for the State Department to discuss religion in America.
        Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, who succeeded Dr. Perilman as senior rabbi at Temple Emanu-El, said yesterday: "His was a brilliant rabbinate and from the depths of his own spirituality he touched the life of this congregation as no other. He was universally beloved."  Born in Ohio
        Dr. Perilman, who was born in Marietta, Ohio, graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1926 before attending the rabbinical seminary at Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. He graduated in 1932. He was awarded a Doctor of Laws degree from Florida Southern College in 1952 and a Doctor of Divinity degree from Hebrew Union College in 1954.
        He was active in community activities, as co-chairman of the rabbis division of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, chairman of the Educational Alliance and a director of the 92d Street Y.M.-Y.W.H.A. He also served on the executive committee of the American Jewish Committee and was closely associated with the National Conference of Christians and Jews and its programs at military installations during World War II.
        Dr. Perilman was a director of the Jewish Braille Institute and of the Jewish Statistical Bureau. He was a past president of the Association of Reform Rabbis and also served on many governmental commissions. Honored by City
        When Rabbi Perilman retired in December of 1973, more than 2,000 worshipers crowded into Temple Emanu-El to honor him, including Mayor John V. Lindsay, who presented him with a medal and a scroll for distinguished service to New York City.
        His wife, the former Elizabeth Baum, whom he married in 1935, died earlier this month.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a son, James, of San Francisco; a brother, Harry, of Akron, Ohio; two sisters, Gertrude Nach of Sepulveda, Calif., and Minnie Elsont of West Palm Beach, Fla.; four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      