
        Dean Jagger, a robust and sympathetic character actor who appeared in more than 120 films over half a century, died yesterday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 87 years old.
        He had been suffering from heart disease, a family spokesman said.
        The bald, firm-jawed Mr. Jagger won an Academy Award as best supporting actor in 1950 for his stirring performance as a wartime Air Force officer in "Twelve O'Clock High."
        In the movie's celebrated opening, he ventures out to a field of eerily waving grass that, in flashback, is transformed into a World War II airfield in Britain. He poignantly recalls the unit's leader (Gregory Peck), whose seeming rigidity generated requests en masse for transfers until he proved his valor in a bombing raid. Men of Thought and Action
        Mr. Jagger adeptly played a stunning variety of roles, including men of thought and men of action, usually personable authority figures. He was sometimes a heavy and occasionally a hero, as in the title role of "Brigham Young -- Frontiersman," a 1940 recounting of the Mormons' trek to Utah, but he was always a durable trouper.
        He was also a familiar figure on television, particularly as the wise high school principal in the mid-1960's dramatic series "Mr. Novak," co-starring James Franciscus. Mr. Jagger also appeared in many television plays, and in 1980 he won an Emmy for acting in a religous program, "Independence and '76, This Is the Life."
        He made his screen debut in 1929 in a forgettable melodrama called "The Woman From Hell," about which he later remarked, "It's a shame she ever left." But his films soon improved. They included "Western Union" (1941), "The North Star" (1943), "Sister Kenny" (1946), "The Robe" (1953), "Executive Suite" (1954), "Bad Day at Black Rock" (1955), "The Nun's Story" (1959) and "Elmer Gantry" (1960).
        One of his last films, "Alligator," a stylish 1981 comic thriller, gave him a chance to act outrageously against type as a demonic industrialist rapaciously deforming animals and spewing toxic wastes. First, a Teacher
        Dean Jagger was born into a farm family in Columbus Grove, Ohio, on Nov. 7, 1903, and grew up there and in rural Indiana. He attended Wabash College. He taught all eight grades in an elementary school for several semesters before giving up teaching for an acting career.
        He studied at the Lyceum Arts Conservatory in Chicago and joined a stock company in Grand Rapids, Mich., replacing Spencer Tracy. He appeared in vaudeville and radio and on Broadway, getting bit parts and a supporting role in 1933 in "Tobacco Road," the long-running comedy-melodrama. He appeared in half a dozen more Broadway plays, then focused on films and later television.
        Surviving is his third wife, Etta, a retired ballerina; a daughter, Diane Pearson of Downey, Calif.; two stepsons, Tom and Lee Winger, both of Santa Monica; a sister, Marie Deeter, of Columbia City, Ind., and six grandchildren.
      