
        Edward S. Taylor, an international authority on aircraft engines and professor emeritus of flight propulsion at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died Saturday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 88 years old.
        He died of an apparent heart attack, said his daughter, Marcia T. Fowle of Manhattan.
        Professor Taylor founded the Gas Turbine Laboratory at M.I.T. and was director for 22 years. He was a leading figure in the development of reciprocating and gas turbine engines and helped pave the way for the development and refinement of pure jet, turbofan and turbine-driven propeller engines used today in high-performance aircraft.
        A 1924 graduate of M.I.T., he worked for the Public Service Corporation and the Wright Aeronautical Corporation in New Jersey before returning to M.I.T. in 1927 as an instructor in aeronautical engineering. He was also on the staff of the Sloan Automotive Laboratory for Aircraft and Automotive Engines.  On Faculty at M.I.T.
        In 1942 he was named professor of aircraft engines. In 1962 he was appointed professor of flight propulsion, a post he held until his retirement in 1968. He remained active in the Gas Turbine Laboratory until recently. Many of his students became leaders in the airplane industry.
        Professor Taylor received many awards for his work, including the Sylvanus Albert Reed Medal in 1936 from the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences for the invention of a vibration absorber for reciprocating aircraft engines. He also received the Robert F. Goddard Award in 1973 from the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics for 45 years of contributions to aircraft propulsion.
        He was a member of many professional organizations and wrote several books and many articles.
        In addition to his daughter Marcia, he is survived by his wife, Julia; another daughter, Mary Adelstein of Waban, Mass.; three stepdaughters, Francesca Moravcsik of Eugene, Ore., Patricia Gahagan of Woodbury, Vt., and Madeleine Fletcher of Cambridge, Mass.; a brother, C. Fayette Taylor of Weston, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      