
        The Rev. Pedro Arrupe, head of the Jesuit order from 1965 to 1983, died yesterday at the Jesuit headquarters in Rome. He was 83 years old.
        Father Arrupe, who had been ailing for many months, died of cardiac pulmonary failure, a Jesuit spokesman said. Pope John Paul II visited Father Arrupe on Jan. 27, the spokesman added.
        His successor as Jesuit Superior General, the Rev. Peter-Hans Kovenbach, said of Father Arrupe, "His radical optimism, which was nourished by his profound faith, made him a source of inspiration which drew the affection and admiration of countless men and women in every part of the world."
        Father Arrupe led the Society of Jesus through a period when liberal positions taken by many members of the order, the largest in Roman Catholicism, stirred repeated controversies and even conflict with the papacy.  A 450-Year History
        Steering the order through such a stormy period ranked him among the most important Superior Generals in the Jesuit's 450-year history, said the Rev. John Padberg, a Jesuit historian and director of the Institute of Jesuit Sources at St. Louis University.
        Father Arrupe was elected head of the order, a position known as the "black pope" because of its proximity to the centers of Vatican power, in 1965. It was the year in which the Second Vatican Council ended, introducing vast changes throughout the church.
        In 1983, when Father Arrupe became the first Superior General to resign rather than die in office, the events surrounding his departure reflected the tension that had arisen between the Jesuits and the Pope.
        That tension was paradoxical because the order, established by St. Ignatius of Loyola in the climate of the Counter-Reformation, has always pledged a special fealty to the Pope and functioned as a spiritual and intellectual vanguard for the Vatican.
        But along with a spirit of unquestioning obedience, the Jesuits have also fostered a strong spirit of individual initiative and experimentation. The two spirits have not always coexisted peaceably.  Challenges to Vatican
        In the years after Vatican II, Jesuits were found challenging church discipline on matters like the restriction of priesthood to unmarried males. In developing nations, some Jesuits became advocates of liberation theology, involving themselves deeply in struggles for political or social change.
        The resulting church strife tested all of Father Arrupe's widely acknowldeged talents as an administrator, linguist and mediator.
        In 1973, Pope Paul VI warned the Jesuits against experimentation and loose discipline. Two years later the Pope complained that attacks by Jesuits on his role had "wounded" him.
        Pope John Paul II further accused the Jesuits in 1979 of "causing confusion among the Christian people and anxieties to the church and also personally to the Pope." He said the order suffered from "secularizing tendencies" and too much independence from papal authority. Enthusiasm for Vatican II
        Father Arrupe had embarked upon his role as Superior General with enthusiasm for the revisionist themes of Vatican II, many of which sprang from the insights of Jesuit theologians like Augustin Cardinal Bea, Karl Rahner and John Courtney Murray.
        After the Council, Father Arrupe called on Jesuits to seek a "more personal style" and greater individual responsibility in determining their religious lives. He cautioned the world Synod of Bishops in 1971 against "authoritarian or paternalistic attitudes" as he tried to build confidence among priests who increasingly viewed the hierarchy with suspicion.
        Perhaps most important, he insisted that the Jesuit order, long identified with work among social and political elites, increase its activities among the poor. He issued some cautionary statements about liberation theology, but these were seen as efforts to impose self-discipline to fend off more severe sanctions from outside the order.
        He also introduced new forms of decentralization into the Jesuit decision-making process. He advocated smaller communities and greater consultation between priests and their superiors. He traveled around the globe, maintaining personal contact with thousands of Jesuits.  Decline in Numbers in 1970's
        Despite his innovations, the order did not escape the widespread departures from the priesthood that occurred in the late 1960's and 1970's. Its numbers fell from 36,038 in 1965 to 25,952 in 1983.
        Faced with implicit papal charges that he was too permissive, Father Arrupe was always ready to admit his own and his order's failings. He issued general reprimands and ousted a number of priests for unusually outspoken opinions. In the case of the Rev. Robert F. Drinan, a Jesuit who was ordered not to seek re-election to Congress from Massachusetts in 1980, he enforced the papal ban on priests' holding partisan political offices.
        But he stopped well short of reining in Jesuit scholarship or Jesuit involvement in left-wing movements in developing countries.
        Some months after Pope John Paul II's rebuke, Father Arrupe informed the Pope of his desire to retire and call a general congregation of the order to elect a successor.
        In May 1980, the Pope told him to delay both measures. When Father Arrupe suffered a temporarily paralyzing brain hemorrhage in August 1981, the Pope spurned his choice of an American, the Rev. Vincent T. O'Keefe, to serve as interim leader.  Pope Named His Own Man
        Instead, the Pope named a personal delegate to administer the order -- the Rev. Paolo Dezza, an 80-year-old conservative Jesuit theologian. Many Jesuits resented the intervention, some publicly. Feelings subsided with the election in 1983 of Father Kolvenbach, a Dutch Jesuit who as Superior General has pursued a moderately liberal path much like Father Arrupe's.
        Pedro Arrupe y Gondra was born Nov. 14, 1907, in Bilboa in the Basque region of Spain. His father was a wealthy architect and newspaper publisher. He entered the University of Madrid with the intention of becoming a medical doctor but turned to theology after witnessing the poverty of the city and miracles at Lourdes.
        After Spain's republican Government outlawed the Jesuits in 1931, he spent 10 years studying in other countries, and he was ordained in 1936 at St. Mary's Seminary in Kansas. He took his final vows as a Jesuit in 1943.
        Before his election to lead the order, he spent nearly three decades in Japan, developing a small Jesuit outpost into a flourishing province, saying he sometimes felt more like a Shintoist than a Spanish Jesuit. After the United States dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima in 1945, Father Arrupe led the first rescue team into the devastated area and later wrote about his experiences.
        He has no known survivors, according to a Jesuit spokesman in New York.
      