
        Joseph H. Johnson, the former chief executive officer of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation and former vice chairman of one of its subsidiaries, Lord & Taylor, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 68 years old and lived in Greenwich and Longboat Key, Fla.
        He died of cancer, said his son, Joseph 3d, of McLean, Va.
        Mr. Johnson was named chairman and chief executive officer of Associated Dry Goods in 1984 and served in those positions until the company merged with the May Department Stores Company in 1986, when he retired.
        He had joined Associated Dry goods in 1970 as executive vice president and treasurer of its Lord & Taylor division. He was appointed vice chairman of Lord & Taylor in 1979 and was then named executive vice president and chief financial officer of the parent company, Associated Dry Goods. He was named vice chairman of Associated Dry Goods in 1981. 11 Store Divisions
        At the time of its merger, Associated Dry Goods was a diversified retailing corporation with 11 department store divisions across the country, including chains like Caldor and Loehmann's in the Northeast, J. W. Robinson's in Southern California, Goldwaters in Arizona and the Lord & Taylor chain.
        Before joining Associated, Mr. Johnson had worked for a May Department Stores unit, the M. O'Neil Company in Akron, Ohio, for 17 years and served as its chief financial officer from 1956 until he left in 1970 to join Lord & Taylor.
        At Associated, Mr. Johnson, a graduate of the University of Alabama, was seen as a low-key executive who was used to being in the corporate background as a financial officer. He was named chairman in 1984, replacing William P. Arnold, who retired because of illness. In 1987, Mr. Johnson was appointed to the President's Cabinet of the University of Alabama.
        In addition to his son, Joseph 3d, he is survived by his wife, Gretchen; another son, James, of Akron; a sister, Sadie Stewart of York, Ala., and two grandchildren.
      