
        Alfredo C. Machado, a Brazilian book publisher who was well known in the United States and Europe, died yesterday in Sao Vicente de Paulo hospital in Rio de Janeiro. He was 68 years old.
        He died from the effects of brain cancer diagnosed 17 months ago, according to his son Sergio.
        Mr. Machado was the co-founder and chief executive of Distribuidora Record in Rio, which he developed into his country's leading publisher of general-interest fiction and nonfiction. The firm is now headed by his sons, Sergio and Alfredo Jr., president and vice president, respectively.
        Record, which has published as many as 350 new titles a year and 5 million books, has published many commercial authors, including Harold Robbins, Sidney Sheldon and Arthur Hailey. But it also published nine Nobel Prize winners, including Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Herman Hesse and Naguib Mahfouz. A Record Figure
        Mr. Machado also published Jorge Amado, Brazil's most popular writer, and Mr. Amado's wife, Zelia Gattai, also a best-selling author. It was he who advised Mr. Amado to have his novel, "Tocaia Grande," translated into English before offering it to publishers in the United States. Bantam Books, which published it in 1988 as "Showdown," paid $250,000, an amount believed at the time to be a record figure for the right to publish a foreign novel in hardcover.
        "He was one of the great publishers of our time, in any language," said Alberto Vitale, the chairman of Random House Inc. "His presence was felt throughout much of the world."
        A tall, burly man with a ready smile and a bristly white mustache, Mr. Machado was fluent in several languages, and was a ranconteur in each of them.
        While still in high school in his native Rio, Mr. Machado began translating comic strips from English into Portuguese. Later he joined O Globo, a daily newspaper, where he became editor of the comic page. Although he earned a law degree in 1944, he never practiced law.
        In 1941, Mr. Machado and his future brother-in-law started Distribuidora Record, to represent newspaper syndicates and sell comic strips and photographs. Later they opened bookstores in Rio, and in the 1960's they started publishing law books. Dominating the Lists
        In the 1970's the brothers-in-law divided the businesses, with Mr. Machado keeping the publishing company. His publishing and business acumen, his winning personality and his extensive foreign contacts soon resulted in a house whose books dominated the best-seller lists and could be found throughout that vast country, from large cities to Amazon villages.
        Mr. Machado was the secretary of tourism for the city of Rio in 1975, and was president of the Association of Brazilian Book Publishers from 1987 to 1990.
        In addition to his sons, he is survived by his wife, Gloria, and a daughter, Sonia Jardim, all of Rio.
      