
        Eric Bernard, an interior designer who rose to prominence in the 1980's, died on Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of AIDS, said his sister, Emily Lynch, of Suffern, N.Y.
        Mr. Bernard was born Bernard Ciocci in New York City on May 22, 1943. Though he had no formal training in architecture or interior design, Mr. Bernard became one of the best-known designers of his generation, making a reputation with sophisticated, luxurious, often hard-edged rooms where electronic gadgetry played a starring role.
        Mr. Bernard pioneered the concept of the all-black interior. "People think black is depressing," Mr. Bernard was quoted in The New York Times in 1980. "They're wrong. Black is serene, relaxing, dramatic, a perfect background." He also said that one of the major inconveniences of black rooms was maintenance. "You can't keep them clean enough," he said. "Black is an outrageous extravagance and not for everybody." Guest Lecturer
        Mr. Bernard's work was widely published in interior decorating books and magazines like Architectural Digest -- where it was given that publication's first two-page cover in 1979, and Town and Country as well as many newspapers. He was a guest lecturer at the Fashion Institute of Technology and the Parsons School of Design.
        The East 94th Street town house where he lived and where his company, Eric Bernard Designs, had its offices, was one of the most accomplished and immaculate examples of his work. He had moved into the building more than 20 years ago, at first occupying only a small apartment. Over the years, he took over all the floors. The stark and minimalist interior gradually filled with the designer's collections of Art Deco and Art Nouveau works.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Bernard exploited modern technology to its fullest, finding ways to integrate stereo, lighting and computer systems with ease in both traditional and contemporary decors.
        Mr. Bernard was invited to take part three times in the prestigious Kips Bay Decorator Show House. For the 1990 show house, he created a futuristic kitchen equipped with voice- command rotating shelves and appliances. As usual, the designer had approached the complex project with a sense of humor. "If there's a power failure you starve," he said of the kitchen, "and if you're overweight, the refrigerator can be programmed to lock automatically."
        For the last four years, Mr. Bernard had been working on the renovation of the Hineni Center, a Jewish cultural institution at 232 West End Avenue in Manhattan.
        Besides his sister, Mr. Bernard is survived by two brothers, Philip Ciocci of Sloatsburg, N.Y., and Ralph Ciocci of Trumbull, Conn.
      