
        Mario Valentino, a fashion designer and manufacturer widely known for fine workmanship in leather, died yesterday at his home in Naples. He was 64 years old.
        He died of emphysema after a long illness, said a spokeswoman at Mr. Valentino's Fifth Avenue store in Manhattan.
        Mr. Valentino, who was not related to Valentino, the dress designer, presided over a family business, Mario Valentino International, which has acquired the dimensions of a multinational enterprise, with a dozen stores in Italy as well as shops from Paris to Hong Kong and Singapore.
        A veteran in shoe design, Mr. Valentino began producing leather trousers and jackets in 1968. Within a few years his all-leather clothes collections received international attention and were described in The New York Times by Bernadine Morris in 1982 as "one of the marvels of the fashion world."  Strapless in Leather
        His earlier leather jackets and skirts came in glowing honey and spice shades along cowboy themes and were the result of an association with Giorgio Armani, the designer. In more recent collections, Mr. Valentino's strapless and off-the-shoulder black leather dresses moved into the cocktail lounge.
        Long accustomed to working with leather in shoes, Mr. Valentino treated the leathers in his clothes collections as if they were fine fabrics. He employed a range of innovative techniques, pleating the leather like silk, slashing it into strips, weaving it into basket patterns and creating abstract designs with inlay work.
        Mr. Valentino was born in Naples. After completing his studies, he joined his father's luxury shoe business. Considering his father's shoes "too classic and serious," the young designer introduced his own creations, which were considered quite daring for the early 1950's, like an all-pink low-cut series. His first major success was a coral sandal, flat, bare, with a floral decoration and held together by two strings, appearing at a fashion show in Rome in 1954.
        This attention led to a contract with I. Miller and the beginning of his American ventures. He built his reputation on "moccasini," light, luxury moccasins in soft colors, and eventually opened his own shoe boutique on East 57th Street.
        While footwear still accounts for 80 percent of Valentino's production, the concern also produces women's and men's apparel, handbags, luggage and fragrance. Based in Naples, the fashion group was run by Mr. Valentino with a good deal of assistance from his family.
        He is survived by his wife, Bianca, who oversees women's clothing; a daughter, Fortuna, who heads the company's design unit; two sons, Gianni, who oversees men's wear, and Enzo, who handles the business's finances, and five grandchildren.
      