
        Jim Jacoby, one of the world's greatest bridge players, died Friday night at Doctors' Hospital in Dallas. He was 58 years old and lived in Richardson, Tex.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Jacoby inherited his bridge skill, for his father was the late Oswald Jacoby, who battled against Ely Culbertson in the celebrated Culbertson-Lenz match in 1930-31 and became one of the greatest figures in the game. The son won his first national title in 1955 at the age of 22, and went on to win 15 more.
        His favorite event was the Vanderbilt Knockout, which he won four times, in 1965, 1967, 1971 and 1982. In 1988 he won the Top 500 title, marking him as the most successful tournament player of that year. He was in constant demand throughout his career as a professional partner and teammate, and at his death was the fifth-ranked American player in career master points.
        In 1963 Mr. Jacoby qualified to represent the United States in the World Team Championship in St. Vincent, Italy, where he and his teammates barely failed to defeat the famed Italian Blue Team. Five years later he became a charter member of a professional team, the Aces, based in Dallas. With the Blue Team in retirement, the Aces won the world team title in 1970 and 1971. The Aces, sponsored by the late Ira Corn Jr., brought about a revival of American fortunes on the international bridge scene, and all the members of the team went on to score other triumphs at world level.
        Mr Jacoby won his third world title, the World Mixed Teams, in 1972, and his fourth, the Olympiad Teams, in Venice, in 1988. He was second in four other world events, and was one of the first American players to become a grandmaster in the rankings of the World Bridge Federation.
        He wrote a syndicated column, which his father had written before him. Together they developed and popularized two major contributions to the theory of bidding: the Jacoby Transfer bid, and the Jacoby Two No-Trump Response, which are widely used by tournament players.
        Mr. Jacoby graduated from the University of Notre Dame. He is survived by his wife, Judy; his son, Jim Jacoby Jr. of New York, and his brother, Jon Jacoby of Little Rock, Ark.
      