
        The Rev. James Cleveland, who taught Aretha Franklin to sing gospel and was widely hailed as the "King of Gospel" died Saturday at the Brotman Medical Center here. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Cleveland died of heart failure, a nursing supervisor, Nellie Lucero, said.
        In addition to being a pastor, Mr. Cleveland was a pianist, singer, composer, arranger and producer. He won three Grammy awards and was widely regarded as the world's foremost gospel musician.
        Mr. Cleveland, a baritone who often described his voice as a foghorn, was credited with writing and arranging more than 400 gospel songs, including "Everything Will Be All Right," "The Love of God" and "Peace Be Still."
        He was the first gospel artist to receive a star on the Walk of Fame in Hollywood.
        Mr. Cleveland was born Dec. 5, 1931, and grew up on the South Side of Chicago. Later, he moved into the home of the Rev. C. L. Franklin in Detroit, where he was choir director and taught the pastor's 9-year-old daughter, Aretha, to sing gospel. Mr. Cleveland later produced Miss Franklin's gospel album, "Amazing Grace," which won a Grammy award.
        "A great soul has passed on. It's really a tremendous loss," said Miss Franklin. "I'm thankful that he touched my life."
        "Anyone who heard him, you were touched by him. He was a motivator, an innovator," she said. "He leaves the greatest legacy."
        He also founded the Gospel Music Workshop of America in Detroit, which he said was his greatest accomplishment. The workshop began in 1968 as a small group of musicians and vocalists and grew to have 200 chapters with 20,000 members nationwide.
        In the last two years, Mr. Cleveland had suffered various health problems. He was unable to perform at a tribute concert for him in October because of a tracheotomy. Earlier last year, he was taken to a hospital in Washington with severe respiratory problems.
        He is survived by a daughter, LaShone, three sisters and a brother.
      