
        Sampson R. Field, a former president of the New York Philharmonic and chairman of the Marlboro School of Music and Marlboro Festival in Vermont, died Sunday night at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Field headed the Philharmonic from 1978 to 1981 and was a member of its board for more than 20 years.
        He was an amateur pianist who occasionally played with professionals, and he worked for many years as a volunteer for several organizations that aided the growth and development of the careers of young musicians. He was a founding director and member of the board of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.  Headed Musicians' Aid Group
        Mr. Field was born in Revere, Mass., and grew up in the Boston area. He was a member of the Harvard Class of 1923 and attended the New England Conservatory of Music.
        He was a supporting member and former president of the Musicians Foundation, an organization founded in 1914 by the Bohemians, also known as the New York Musician's Club, to aid the social welfare of professional musicians and their families in case of need.
        Mr. Field was a long-time backer of the Stadium Symphony Orchestra, which for more than five decades held open-air concerts in the Lewisohn Stadium of City College. The concerts were founded in 1918 for the recreation of soldiers and sailors stationed in New York during World War I.  Salmon Fishing a Hobby
        Mr. Field's business career was in the printing industry, where he served as president of the Publishers Printing Company, established in 1882. It later became the Printing Corporation of America, a subsidiary of the American Can Company.
        He was a former president of the New York Employing Printers Association, which encouraged careers in printing. His hobbies included photography and salmon fishing.
        He is survived by his wife, Miriam; a son, Richard, of New Haven; a daughter, Barbara, of Manhattan; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren, and a brother, Benjamin, of Chestnut Hill, Mass.
      