
        Dr. Robert Austin Milch, an orthopedic surgeon who became an entrepreneur and founded Igene Biotechnology Inc., an industrial and agricultural chemical company in Columbus, Md., died Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 61 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, his wife, the former Margot Wurtzburger, said.
        Dr. Milch graduated from Columbia College and in 1953 from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. He completed his surgical training at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., and the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.
        He was an associate professor of orthopedics at Johns Hopkins and director of the Orthopedic Surgical Research Laboratory there from 1960 to 1966. He conducted research into the physical chemistry of aging connective tissue. White House Assistant
        Dr. Milch was a special assistant in the White House Office of Science and Technology from 1966 to 1968 and then served as president of the Bioengineering Corporation in Washington and as chairman of the U.S. Health Corporation in Baltimore.
        From 1971 to 1977 he was principal health and medical consultant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company, the accounting firm, in Washington and then joined the faculty at Loyola College as a professor and director of graduate programs in health-care management.
        From 1981 to 1989 he was chairman, president and chief executive of Igene Biotechnology Inc., also known as I.G.I. Biotechnology. He was the author of three medical books, wrote almost 200 scientific and technical papers and held patents for six inventions.
        Dr. Milch was a former trustee of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra and the Baltimore Ballet Company. He also served on the Board of Visitors of Columbia College in Manhattan and was on the board of the Chesapeake Biological Laboratory.
        In addition to his wife, a consumer affairs specialist in the office of the Attorney General of Maryland, he is survived by a daughter, Pamela A. M. Johnson of Manhattan, and a son, Thomas, of Baltimore.
      