
        John T. O'Hagan, who served simultaneously as chief of the New York City Fire Department and as Fire Commissioner in the mid-70's, died yesterday at his home in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. He was 65 years old.
        He died of cardiopulmonary arrest because of widespread cancer, which he had been fighting since July 1989, said his son, Michael.
        Mr. O'Hagan, who fostered many innovations during his leadership of the department, including the creation of a strong fire-safety law for high-rise buildings and the use of "cherry picker" tower ladders, was 39 years old when he was appointed chief of the department in 1964, the youngest chief in the department's history.
        In addition, he was appointed Fire Commissioner in 1973 by Mayor John V. Lindsay and retained both posts under Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
        "He was one of New York City's best-known fire officials, and respected worldwide as an expert on high-rise fire," said John Mulligan, a former deputy fire commissioner for public information and now a spokesman for the Uniformed Firefighters Association.
        Mr. Mulligan said Mr. O'Hagan was considered the author of Local Law 5, which was regarded as the most stringent high-rise fire-safety law in the nation when it passed in 1973, following fires in two nearly completed office towers that killed 5 people and injured 69. First Female Applicants
        The law required a fire alarm and communication system for buildings higher than 100 feet, another system that automatically recalled elevators to the ground floor in a fire and a sprinkler system for most centrally air-conditioned buildings.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. O'Hagan ordered the use of "cherry picker" tower ladders that could reach above the seventh floor, remove people from windows and spray large amounts of water.
        Also during his tenure, the first female applicants took Fire Department tests. Despite resistance among many firemen to the idea of female firefighters, Commissioner O'Hagan said he saw "no physical or mental impediment to a woman being a firefighter."
        He instituted annual medical exams for firefighters, fire-retardant work uniforms, a newsletter, commendation bars similar to military medals and a contest to design the Fire Department's shoulder patch.
        When Mayor Edward I Koch did not reappoint him commissioner in 1978, he left the department and started a fire safety consulting business. Evaluated Departments
        John T. O'Hagan Associates evaluated fire departments in cities like Los Angeles, Minneapolis and Dallas.
        Mr. O'Hagan was born on April 7, 1925, in New York City.  During World War II he was a platoon sergeant who saw action with the 11th Airborne Division in the South Pacific.
        He was appointed to the Fire Department in 1947 and received six meritorious commendations and a medal for administration.
        Survivors in addition to his son, who lives in Manhattan, are his wife, Catherine; two daughters, Catherine Wolfe of North Tarrytown, N.Y., and Susan Marley of Montclair, N.J.; his mother, Mary Wallace O'Hagan of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      