
        The cornetist Jimmy McPartland, one of the originators of the brash 1920's variant of Dixieland that became known as Chicago-style jazz, died yesterday at his home in Port Washington, L.I. He would have been 84 years old tomorrow.
        He died of lung cancer, his wife, the jazz pianist Marian McPartland, said.
        Mr. McPartland's playing carried some echoes of the legendary cornetist Bix Beiderbecke throughout his career, although it was colored by his own buoyant personality. When, at age 17, he replaced Beiderbecke in a Chicago jazz band called the Wolverines, Beiderbecke told him: "Kid, I like the way you play. You sound like me, but you don't copy me."
        Mr. McPartland, who was born in Chicago in 1907, was one of several youngsters at Austin High School who hung out in a candy store to listen to the jazz records of the New Orleans Rhythm Kings, King Oliver and Louis Armstrong, all of whom were playing in Chicago at the time. This Austin High Gang included such future jazz stars as the saxophonist Bud Freeman, the clarinetist Frank Teschemacher and the drummer Dave Tough.
        The gang soon expanded to include some non-Austin High musicians: Eddie Condon, Gene Krupa and Benny Goodman. Their records in the late 1920's wereidentified as Chicago jazz. Doubled in Broadway Bands
        In 1927, Mr. McPartland joined Ben Pollack's band, which included Goodman, Freeman and the trombonists Glenn Miller and Jack Teagarden. For two years they played at the Park Central Hotel (now the Omni-Park) in Manhattan, often doubling into the pit bands of Broadway shows. In the 1930's, Mr. McPartland returned to Chicago where he organized a group called the Embassy Four with his brother, Dick, a guitarist. For several years, he led a group at the Three Deuces, a nightclub, where he was a band leader, singer and master of ceremonies. He was a member of Jack Teagarden's big band when he joined the Army in World War II.
        After combat duty in the Normandy invasion, he joined a U.S.O. touring show, during which he met and married an English pianist, Marian Page. When he returned to the United States in 1946, he formed a jazz group with his wife as pianist. After five years, she formed her own trio at Mr. McPartland's urging so she would not be restricted to his kind of music. Acted on the Side
        In the 1950's, Mr. McPartland added acting to his talents, starting with a television fantasy about a jazz musician, "The Magic Horn," which led to a role in "Showboat" at the Summer Theater at Jones Beach and a recorded version of "The Music Man."
        Mr. McPartland's first marriage ended in divorce. He and Marian McPartland were divorced in 1967, but remained good friends and neighbors. They were remarried two weeks ago.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two grandchildren, Donna Kassel of Paris and Douglas Kassel of San Francisco. Private funeral services are to be held in Chicago. Memorial services are to be held later at St. Peter's Church in Manhattan and at the University of Chicago, to which Mr. McPartland donated his memorabilia.
      