
        Howard Ashman, an Oscar-winning lyricist and a librettist, playwright and director who wrote and staged the Off Broadway hit "Little Shop of Horrors," died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 40 years old and lived in Beacon, N.Y.
        He died of AIDS, Kyle Renick, the artistic director of the WPA Theater, said.
        Mr. Ashman was the WPA's artistic director in 1982 when he collaborated with the composer Alan Menken on "Little Shop of Horrors," the tale of a timid flower store clerk who sells his soul to a man-eating plant. The show, based on a low-budget movie, ran five years and became Off Broadway's highest grossing and third-longest-running musical. A movie version of the musical won Mr. Ashman and Mr. Menken an Academy Award nomination.
        With Mr. Menken, Mr. Ashman won an Oscar in 1989 for "Under the Sea," a popular song in the Disney film "The Little Mermaid." It is sung to a calypso beat by a crab who wants to persuade a lovelorn mermaid that it is better to live in the sea than on the land.
        Mr. Menken and Mr. Ashman also received a Golden Globe Award and two Grammy Awards for their work on the film. Mr. Ashman had recently completed work on two other animated Disney features, "Beauty and the Beast" and "Aladdin." An Editor at First
        Mr. Ashman, was born in Baltimore, and attended Goddard College and Boston University and received a Master of Fine Arts from Indiana University. He moved to New York in 1974 and worked as an editor at Grosset & Dunlap while writing plays.
        These included "Cause Maggie's Afraid of the Dark," "The Confirmation" and "Dreamstuff," a musical version of "The Tempest" that began his association with the WPA Theater.
        "Dreamstuff" was produced at the WPA on the Bowery shortly before the theater went out of business in 1976. When the WPA reopened in 1977 on Fifth Avenue and 19th Street, Mr. Ashman became its artistic director, serving in that role until 1982.
        During that time, he and Mr. Menken wrote a musical version of Kurt Vonnegut's "God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater," which Mr. Ashman directed in 1979 at the Entermedia Theater on Second Avenue at 12th Street.
        His greatest success at WPA was the musical version of Roger Corman's 1960 movie "The Little Shop of Horrors." The show, which moved to the Orpheum Theater on Second Avenue, received the New York Drama Critics Circle Award for the Best Musical of 1982-83. A 1986 film versionwas directed by Frank Oz.  A Director in Self-Defense
        Despite his success, Mr. Ashman did not consider himself part of the theater establishment. " 'Little Shop' would never have been produced had I not had my own theater," he said in 1986. "In order to reach the public, it had to get past the New York theater establishment. And if that establishment had had its way, it also would have roadblocked 'Smile.' "
        He was referring to a musical based on a film about a teen-age beauty pageant, which was about to open on Broadway under his direction. He wrote the book and lyrics for the show, collaborating with the composer Marvin Hamlisch. The show opened in 1986 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater and ran for 48 performances.
        "I direct my own shows not because I like to, but out of self-defense," he said, "since there are only two or three people alive whom I would like to direct my work."
        His companion was William Lauch, an architect.
        Surviving are a sister, Sarah Gillespie, of New York City, and his mother, Shirley Gershman, of Baltimore.
      