
        William D. Turnbull, the co-founder and publisher of North Point Press, an influential independent publishing house, died Thursday at his home in Sinson Beach, Calif. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Turnbull died of stomach cancer, said the spokeswoman for the Berkeley, Calif., publishing house.
        North Point was founded in 1980 by Mr. Turnbull, a civil engineer and real estate developer, and Jack Shoemaker, who became editor in chief. Of the future, Mr. Turnbull said, "We want to be both literary and professional -- to keep small and think big."
        The house built a reputation for consistently turning out fine literary works. It also published four best sellers: "West With the Night" and "The Splendid Outcast," both by the aviation pioneer Beryl Markham; "Son of the Morning Star," Evan S. Connell's nonfiction account of Custer at Little Big Horn, and, most recently, "Crow and Weasel," a fable by Barry Lopez.
        North Point assembled an impressive cast of 125 writers and issued about 30 titles a year, but its prestige exceeded its profitability. Mr. Turnbull, the sole owner, citing estate planning, put the house up for sale two years ago, but no buyer has been found and it is slated to close on June 30. Its books will be distributed by Farrar, Straus & Giroux, whose president, Roger W. Straus, has expressed deep regret over the closing. "They have done some extraordinarily good books, and they are much beloved," he said.
        Mr. Turnbull was born in East Orange, N.J., and studied at Montclair Academy and at Lehigh University, the University of Kentucky and the University of Geneva. He served in the Army in World War II, and he was president of the Channing Group, developers, in Menlo Park, Calif.
        Surviving are his wife, Mary; a daughter, Catharine Marsh, of Rohnert Park, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Nicole Beckman of Sausalito, Calif.; two stepsons, Eric Beckman of Sausalito and Christopher Beckman of Los Angeles; two brothers, Charles of Old Lyme, Conn., and Robert of New York City, and two granddaughters.
      