
        Etienne Decroux, an actor and teacher who has been called the father of modern French mime, died on March 12 in Boulogne-Billancourt, a suburb of Paris. He was 92 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed. Thomas Leabhart, an American who studied with Mr. Decroux and is editor of Mime Journal and an associate professor of theater at Pomona College in California, said that Mr. Decroux had been in ill health for several years.
        Mr. Decroux, who worked with hundreds of students -- among them, the internationally known mime Marcel Marceau -- called the form he created "corporeal mime" to distinguish it from the white-faced mime of the 19th century. Mr. Decroux based his mime upon the natural rhythms of all things that move, from trees in the wind to workmen at their labors, and he sought to make gestures as ordered and rigorous as the words of a poem.
        He could be doctrinaire in his opinions. In 1959 he told a reporter that he disapproved of all Western theater; he believed that only in China was theater still a great art form, and even there he thought it was being debased. Nevertheless, the fact that Mr. Marceau eventually adopted a personal mimetic style that owes much to 19th-century traditions is evidence of the way Mr. Decroux inspired pupils to develop his teachings in their own way. Other noted students of Mr. Decroux are the American mimes Richard Morse and Alvin Epstein. Embodied Emotion
        Mr. Decroux began his career as an actor in 1923 at Jacques Copeau's Vieux Colombier, an experimental Parisian theater and school, where students were often required to mask their faces and convey emotion solely with their bodies.
        From 1925 to 1946, when he concentrated exclusively on mime, Mr. Decroux appeared in 65 stage presentations and 35 films, among them "Les Enfants du Paradis," Marcel Carne's tribute to 19th-century French mime. In his film and stage career, Mr. Decroux was associated with such stars of the French theater as Louis Jouvet, Charles Dullin and Jean-Louis Barrault.
        Mr. Decroux started experimenting with mime in 1928; in 1940 he opened a school in Paris that, said Mr. Leabhart, "remained a central focus of world mime until the early 1980's." Mr. Decroux came to New York City at various times in the late 1950's and early 60's to teach at the Actors Studio, the New School for Social Research and New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, Suzanne, and a son, Maximilien.
      