
        R. Burdell Bixby, a lawyer, former chairman of the New York State Thruway Authority and a prominent figure in the state Republican Party, died on Wednesday at the Columbia-Greene Medical Center in Hudson, N.Y. He was 76 years old and lived in Hudson.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Bixby, a close associate of Governors Thomas E. Dewey and Nelson A. Rockefeller, was a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, from 1955 until he retired in 1985.
        He was known to friends and political associates as "Bix." Mr. Bixby was born in Schenectady, N.Y., and was a graduate of Colgate University and the Albany Law School. In World War II he served for four years in the Army Air Corps.
        Upon his release from military service in 1946 he became secretary to the Speaker of the New York State Assembly, Oswald D. Heck. Two years later he joined Governor Dewey's staff and in 1952 he was appointed secretary to the Governor.
        When the New York State Thruway Authority was establshed in 1950, Mr. Bixby was made a member. He became the authority's chairman in 1960, a post he held until 1974. From 1959 to 1961 he was treasurer of the New York State Republican Committee. Active in Campaigns
        His participation in Republican politics dated to the 1930's when he began working for candidates for elective office. In 1937 he was named research counselor to Irving M. Ives, who was then majority leader of the State Assembly and later a United States Senator. He became a specialist in scheduling candidates' appearances, one of the most vital campaign elements.
        He was a major figure in Mr. Dewey's campaigns for governor, and he managed Mr. Rockefeller's re-election campaign in 1970. Four years later he was chairman of the unsuccessful gubernatorial campaign of Malcolm Wilson, who had moved up from lieutenant governor in 1973 when Mr. Rockefeller resigned to seek the Presidency. Mr. Bixby also served as New York State manager for Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Hardwick; a son, Robert, of Albany, and a sister, Margaret Kearney of Rio Rancho, N.M.
      