
        Nick Vanoff, an award-winning producer for theater and television, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 61 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of cardiac arrest, a hospital spokesman said.
        Mr. Vanoff won a Tony Award last year for the Broadway musical "City of Angels." Among his other work on Broadway was Jackie Mason's long-running show "The World According to Me!"
        For his television work, Mr. Vanoff won five Emmy Awards, three for "The Kennedy Center Honors," produced with George Stevens Jr., and the others for "The Julie Andrews Hour" in the early 1970's and the 1988 Julie Andrews special "The Sound of Christmas." First Work Was Dancing
        Born in Greece and raised in Pittsburgh and Buffalo, Mr. Vanoff began his career as a dancer. He performed with the Charles Weidman Dance Theater and was a principal dancer with the New York City Opera. He also danced on Broadway in "Kiss Me, Kate" and appeared on television and in nightclubs.
        After serving in the Marines, he studied directing with Theodore Komisarjevsky in New York.
        He was a cue-card holder on "The Perry Como Show" for television and became its associate producer. He then produced Steve Allen's "Tonight Show" with William O. Harbach in New York in the mid-1950's and later in Hollywood when Mr. Allen moved to the West Coast.
        At one point in the early 1960's, he produced more than 10 hours of television a week, including specials for Bing Crosby and Andy Williams, "Perry Como's Kraft Music Hall," "The Hollywood Palace," "Night Life," "The Don Knotts Show," "The Milton Berle Show" and "The Sonny and Cher Show." 'Showman of the Year'
        Mr. Vanoff co-produced the 1985 film "Eleni," was a founding director of the Foundation for the Joffrey Ballet, and was a co-owner of Sunset-Gower Studios, the former Columbia Studios in Hollywood. The Publicists Guild of America named him 1990 Showman of the Year.
        Surviving are his wife, Felisa, two sons, Nicholas and Flavio, and his mother, Fima, all of Los Angeles; three sisters, Alexandra Zajack and Venka Richards of Los Angeles and Nada Alex of Buffalo, and a brother, Boris, of Los Angeles.
        Funeral services will be held tomorrow at 2 P.M. at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Beverly Hills, Calif.
      