
        Clarence Leo Fender, whose mass-produced electric guitars revolutionized the world's popular music, died on Thursday in Fullerton, Calif. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Fender, who had Parkinson's disease, died on his way to a hospital after being found unconscious at his home, but the exact cause of death was not announced.
        Although Les Paul built the first solid-body electric guitar, Mr. Fender's Broadcaster guitar, which he designed with George Fullerton, entered mass production in 1948. Renamed the Telecaster in 1950, it was quickly adopted by country and early rock-and-roll musicians. The Fender Stratocaster was introduced in 1954; its design is still widely imitated. Such rock stars as Eric Clapton, Keith Richards, Buddy Holly and Jimi Hendrix made it their instrument of choice.  First Recorded in 1947
        The crisp, twangy attack of Fender instruments was recorded as early as 1947, when Arthur Smith used a prototype Broadcaster on a country hit, "Guitar Boogie." And it echoes through early rock-and-roll songs by Elvis Presley (whose guitarist, James Burton, used a Telecaster) and Buddy Holly (a Stratocaster user), blues by Muddy Waters and Robert Cray, soul by Booker T. and the M.G.'s (with Steve Cropper playing a Telecaster) and the many performers they accompanied, the rock of Jimi Hendrix, Jeff Beck, Eric Clapton and Lou Reed and the reggae of Bob Marley and the Wailers. In "Jemima Surrender" by the Band, the singer vows, "I'll bring over my Fender and I'll play all night for you."
        "The Telecaster has a real crunch kind of a sound," Mr. Cropper said yesterday. "It has much more of a bite than other guitars."
        Fender instruments also helped establish the image of the rock guitar. Their distinctive diagonally cut heads, with tuning pegs all in one row, and their asymmetrical bodies made it clear that the electric guitar was a qualitatively different instrument from an amplified acoustic guitar. Although one reason Mr. Paul and Mr. Fender had come up with the solid-body design was to eliminate the feedback that came with amplifying a hollow-body guitar, rock musicians used the instruments to create a new electronic vocabulary of distortion, feedback and special effects.
        In 1951, Mr. Fender invented the first electric bass guitar.  Collectors' Items
        Early models of Fender guitars sold for $75 and Mr. Fender, a country music enthusiast, gave some of his guitars to country music players. Today an early original can sell for up to $20,000.
        CBS bought the Fender business in 1965 for $13 million, and sold it in 1985 for $12.5 million after cheaply produced overseas guitars had destroyed the market for American-made products.
        Mr. Fender was in the Country Music Hall of Fame.
        When the Rolling Stones were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, Mr. Richards said, "Thank God for Leo Fender, who makes these instruments for us to play."
      