
        Paul Engle, the poet and author who nursed the University of Iowa's writers' programs to international acclaim, died suddenly Friday at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago. A resident of Iowa City, he was 82 years old.
        The co-founder of the university's International Writing Program, Mr. Engle was en route to Poland when he died, the university reported. He was traveling to receive the Polish Government's Order of Merit, one of several such honors given to him by the home countries of writers who took part in the program.
        A university spokesman, Winston Barclay, said the cause of death had not been determined as of last night. He reported that a Paul Engle International Writing Fellowship was being established by the University of Iowa Foundation at the Iowa City campus. Noted Writer in Program
        Iowa City was where Flannery O'Connor, Richard Kim, William Stafford and W. D. Snodgrass honed their talents. Robert Penn Warren taught there, as did Kurt Vonnegut, Philip Roth and Vance Bourjaily.
        Over the years, some 800 writers from more than 80 countries journeyed to the campus, where Mr. Engle directed the writing program with his wife, the Chinese novelist Hua-ling Nieh. They formally retired in 1987 but continued write and travel.
        Last year, the Engles attended a reunion of International Writing Program writers in Buenos Aires, and Mr. Engle was the keynote speaker at the World Congress of Poets in Seoul, South Korea, where the Engles were reunited with many writers from the program. In 1989, they were guests of the Soviet Writers Union in Moscow and Leningrad.
        Mr. Engle wrote and edited more than 20 books. He was a frequent contributor to poetry journals, but his book reviews often appeared in general-interest publications, including The New York Times.
        Paul Engle had a lifelong commitment to his home state. He was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Oct. 12, 1908, and graduated from Coe College and the University of Iowa before taking advanced studies at Columbia University and Merton College, Oxford, where he went as a Rhodes Scholar.
        He was a prize-winning poet by the time he returned to the University of Iowa to teach in 1937. As a professor of English, he directed its workshops in creative writing from 1966 to 1977. He co-founded the International Writing Program in 1967.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Engle was working on memoirs and was co-writing with his wife of book of reflections on their life together. Last year, the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters gave him its Award for Distinguished Service to the Arts.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Engle is survived by two daughters from a previous marriage, Mary Burge of Palo Alto, Calif., and Sara Lausch of Hildesheim, Germany; two step-daughters, Lan-lan Wang of Los Angeles, and Wei-wei Wang Rupprecht of Bonn; and a sister, Katheryne Montague of Carmel, Calif.
      