
        Charles M. Spofford, a New York lawyer and civic and cultural leader who also held high posts in NATO, died Saturday evening at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 88 years old.
        He died of pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Spofford retired in 1973 after 33 years as a partner in the New York-based law firm that became known as Davis Polk & Wardwell. An inspired moment in those years, as the philanthropist John D. Rockefeller 3d recalled, came in 1955, while Mr. Rockefeller was chatting with Mr. Spofford, not in a boardroom or a courtroom, but on a bench in the Pocono Mountains of northeastern Pennsylvania.
        The two were taking a break from a conference on foreign affairs. As Mr. Rockefeller noted, their talk turned to "the state of the arts in America," and Mr. Spofford gave him the germ of an idea for what became the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts -- with much Rockefeller financial support and Mr. Rockefeller as its chairman.  Active in Arts Center
        For a time in the mid-1960's, Mr. Spofford was concurrently a vice chairman of the center, a board member of its repertory theater and chairman of the executive committee of the Metropolitan Opera, which became part of the West Side center.
        It was in 1930 that he joined his law firm, then known as Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland & Kiendl. He became a partner in 1940 and left in World War II to serve as an Army staff officer in the North African and Mediterranean Theaters, rising to brigadier general.
        Mr. Spofford also left Davis Polk from 1950 to 1952 for assignments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. He was first appointed deputy United States representative to the North Atlantic Council and was later elected chairman of the NATO Council of Deputies -- which was set up to mesh defense plans -- and also chairman of the European Coordinating Committee.
        Charles Merville Spofford was born on Nov. 17, 1902, in St. Louis, the son of Charles W. Spofford and the former Beulah Merville, and spent much of his youth in Evanston, Ill. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated from Yale College in 1924 and from Harvard Law School in 1928.
        By the time of his epochal chat with Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Spofford had become, as the philanthropist described him in a 1962 article in The New York Times Magazine, "a distinguished New York lawyer, a past president and active member of the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association." And so Mr. Rockefeller listened when Mr. Spofford told him about "three coincidences."  'Fascinating' Circumstances
        "The Metropolitan's board, he told me, had finally decided to build a new home to replace the beloved but inadequate building on 39th Street," Mr. Rockefeller wrote, and at the same time, a second great musical organization -- the New York Philharmonic, whose home was Carnegie Hall -- was seeking a new home.
        Arthur A. Houghton Jr., representing the Philharmonic board, had talked with the architect Wallace K. Harrison about the layout of a new concert hall, and, Mr. Rockefeller wrote, "Harrison, who had worked with the opera for many years, suggested to Houghton and Spofford that the common problem of the Metropolitan and the Philharmonic might be solved on a single site."
        The third coincidence, Mr. Rockefeller wrote, was that Robert Moses, the head of the city's Committee on Slum Clearance, earlier that year "had marked for clearance a vast West Side slum area contiguous to Lincoln Square," which lies between 65th and 66th Streets at the intersection of Broadway and Columbus Avenue.
        "It was, I felt, a fascinating set of circumstances," Mr. Rockefeller recalled, and the rest is cultural history.
        Over the years, Mr. Spofford was a trustee or a director of such organizations as Yale University, Union Theological Seminary, the Juilliard School of Music, the New York chapter of the American Red Cross, the American University of Beirut, the Free Europe Committee and the English Speaking Union of the United States.
        Mr. Spofford wrote articles on NATO that appeared in internatioal affairs journals. Among his wartime honors were the Distinguished Service Medal and the Purple Heart and many foreign awards, including France's Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre and the Order of the British Empire.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Sydney Brewster, and four children from his marriage to the former Margaret Mercer Walker that ended in divorce. They are two sons, C. Nicholas and John S. W., both of Bedford, N.Y., and two daughters, Nancy Yerkes and Margaret Benkard, both of Manhattan; 13 grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      