
        Chad Walsh, a longtime English professor, poet and writer, died on Jan. 17 at The Arbors, a nursing home in Shelburne, Vt. He was 76 years old and lived in South Burlington, Vt.
        His daughter, Damaris McGuire, said he had died of Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Walsh's vast literary output included religious and children's books as well as volumes of poetry. He also wrote two books about C. S. Lewis, the author of children's fiction and adult fantasies: "C. S. Lewis: Apostle to the Skeptics" (1949) and "The Literary Legacy of C. S. Lewis" (1979).
        One of Mr. Walsh's poems, "The Archaic Hours," was the basis for a dance by Martha Graham in 1969.
        It was probably inevitable that Mr. Walsh should write about Mr. Lewis, whose own books helped convert Mr. Walsh from agnosticism to Christianity. In 1949, four years after that conversion, Mr. Walsh was ordained a priest in the Episcopal Church. Eventually, he served during summers as a guest preacher at churches throughout the United States. A Career at Beloit
        Most of the time, however, Mr. Walsh was in Beloit, Wis., where he was a professor of English at Beloit College, a liberal arts school. He taught there for more than 30 years after joining the faculty in 1945. He served as chairman of the English department and editor of The Beloit Poetry Journal, a publication he helped found in 1950.
        From the late 1940's into the 1970's, Mr. Walsh contributed many poems and numerous reviews to The New York Times Book Review, including reviews of books by C. S. Lewis and Aldous Huxley. In 1948 he reviewed a new translation of Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales," and he frequently reviewed new editions and versions of the Bible. His poems also appeared in the Saturday Review, the New Republic and the Sewanee Review.
        Mr. Walsh's books for children include "Knock and Enter" (1953), an introduction to Christianity in the form of a novel, and "Nellie and Her Flying Crocodile" (1956). His other books include "The Psalm of Christ: Forty Poems on the Twenty-Second Psalm" (1964) and "God at Large" (1971), an examination of the void that the author said had been left by the belief that God was dead. Analyst in Signal Corps
        Mr. Walsh, born May 10, 1914, in South Boston, Va., grew up in Marion, Va., and graduated from the University of Virginia in 1938. He earned a master's degree in French from the University of Michigan, followed by a doctorate in English at Michigan. After two years in Washington as a research analyst for the Army Signal Corps, he joined Beloit as an assistant professor.
        Mr. Walsh was a Fulbright lecturer in American literature in Finland and Italy, and was a visiting professor at Wellesley College, the University of Chicago and other institutions.
        Mr. Walsh is survived by his wife, Evan, of South Burlington, and by four daughters: Mrs. McGuire, of New York City; Madeline Hamblin, of Chicago; Sarah-Lindsay Parente, of Beloit, and Alison Walsh Sackett, of San Francisco, and eight grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. on Jan. 26 at Trinity Episcopal Church in Shelburne.
      