
        Burton G. Tremaine, a noted art collector and an industrial executive, died on Saturday at his winter home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 89 years old and also lived in Madison, Conn.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Tremaine and his wife, Emily Hall Tremaine, began collecting 20th-century art when they were married in 1945. By the early 1980's the Tremaine collection had grown to more than 400 works by European and American artists.
        In 1980 the Tremaines sold "Three Flags," an early painting by Jasper Johns, to the Whitney Museum for $1 million. At the time the price was believed to be the highest ever paid for the work of a living artist. The Tremaines had bought "Three Flags," a triple image of 48-star American flags of different size superimposed one on another, in 1959 for $900.
        Mr. Tremaine, a native of Cleveland, was the son of a co-founder of Nela Park, the company that later became the lamp department of General Electric. He attended Lake Forest College and began his business career in his early 20's as president of the Superior Screw and Bolt Company of Cleveland. Young Bank Director
        He soon became the youngest director of the Cleveland Trust Company and in his early 30's took over the Miller Company of Meriden, Conn., a manufacturer of sheet-metal products and lighting fixtures. At his death he was chairman emeritus of Miller.
        Mr. Tremaine, who learned to fly in his youth, flew his own plane across the country. He maintained an active lifelong interest in a family cattle-ranching business based in Flagstaff, Ariz.
        Upon their marriage, the Tremaines began to assemble their collection with the purchase of Piet Mondrian's painting "Broadway Boogie-Woogie."
        Also in the collection are works by Braque, Picasso and Paul Klee; the Abstract Expressionists Mark Rothko, Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, and the Pop artists Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein and Claes Oldenburg.  The collection was shown at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford in 1984.
        Mr. Tremaine is survived by a son, Burton Jr., of Vero Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Dorothy Hildt, of Gates Mills, Ohio; six grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      