
        Steven J. Hueglin, a prominent municipal bond dealer, died on Thursday at a hospital in Guatemala City. He was 38 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He was at the hospital to undergo experimental treatment for AIDS, a family spokesman said.
        In 1979 Mr. Hueglin and Joseph P. Gabriele and James J. Cashman, founded the firm of Gabriele, Hueglin & Cashman, municipal bond dealers and underwriters, in Manhattan.
        The company, of which Mr. Hueglin was executive vice president, grew rapidly and its newsletter, Hueglin's Bond Market Report, was widely read. After the 1986 tax changes, he was featured on the cover of Money magazine as one of the bond business's keenest forecasters.
        In 1985 the firm was acquired by Tucker, Anthony, the brokerage arm of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance, but continued to be managed by the original partners. A frequent contributor to Barrons, The Fixed Income Journal and other publications, Mr. Hueglin remained with the firm until his illness became acute two months ago.
        He began his Wall Street career with Stoever, Glass & Company, a bond house, and attracted nationwide attention during New York City's 1977 fiscal crisis when his research uncovered $60 million in city general obligation bonds that were selling at rock-bottom prices, but which had been federally guaranteed, assuring their value.
        Mr. Hueglin was a member of the board of trustees of Vassar College, from which he graduated in 1974 as a member of the school's first coeducational class. As a senior he was elected the first male president of the student body.
        His interest in publishing led to his being an initial investor in the Bookstop, a bookstore chain based in Austin, Tex. The chain grew from one store to be the country's fourth-largest seller of books before it was acquired by B. Dalton in 1989.
        He is survived by his parents, Marjorie and Karl Hueglin of Manhasset, L.I.; three brothers, Michael, of Roanoke, Va., Roger, of Manhattan, and Karl Jr., of Manhasset; a sister, Martha Freiberg of Atlanta, and five nieces and nephews.
      