
        Elmer Bischoff, a pioneer of the Bay Area figurative school of painting, died Saturday at the Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Berkeley.
        He had cancer for the last two years, said his wife, Adelie.
        An important figure in West Coast painting, Mr. Bischoff taught at the San Francisco Art Institute in the late 1940's with the painters Mark Rothko, Clyfford Still and Ad Reinhardt. With them, he helped spread Abstract Expressionism in San Francisco.
        But in the early 1950's, along with the painters Richard Diebenkorn and David Park, he broke with abstraction and began to work in the powerful style that later became known as Bay Area figurative painting. The figurative group had its first show at the Oakland Museum of Art in 1957.
        Mr. Bischoff's own work in this loosely Expressionist mode -- from the mid-1950's to the early 70's -- was based on exploration of the figure and landscape in rich textures and vigorous colors. In the early 1970's, he turned again to abstraction, energizing the canvas with brushings, markings, patches and structures of vibrant color.
        His work is in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Hirshhorn Museum and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, and the Art Institute of Chicago. At his death he was professor emeritus of art at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Born in Berkeley in 1916, Mr. Bischoff earned bachelor's and master's degrees in fine art from the University of California there. He served in the Intelligence division of the Air Force during World War II, achieving the rank of lieutenant colonel. After the war, he taught at the San Francisco Art Institute, then known as the California School of Fine Arts. He resigned from the school in the early 1950's when he took up figurative painting, but in 1956 he returned to head its graduate program.
        He soon became one of the area's most influential art teachers. In 1963, he moved to the University of California at Berkeley as associate professor. He was promoted to full professor two years later.
        "He was the reason many students came to the graduate program here," said Prof. Anne Healy, chairwoman of Berkeley's department of art practice, who also described Mr. Bischoff as "a very dear man with a wonderful sense of joy and of fun."
        Besides his wife, Adelie Landis Bischoff, he is survived by two brothers, John Albert, of Alamo, Calif., and Robert, of Tempe, Ariz.; a daughter, Laurie Hall of Stockton, Calif.; five sons, Stephen, of Walnut Creek, Thomas, of Rohnert Park, John, of Berkeley, Gregory, of Santa Cruz, and Mark of Oakland, all in California, and four granddaughters.
      