
        Gaylord A. Freeman Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of the First National Bank of Chicago and an influential spokesman for business on national and international monetary affairs, died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 81 years old and lived in Wayne, Ill., and Lincoln, N.M.
        He died of complications after vascular surgery, said Ben W. Heineman, who had been a colleague of Mr. Freeman at First Chicago.
        Mr. Freeman, who spent his entire career with the First National Bank and its parent, First Chicago Corporation, was frequently called on by Washington for advice and assistance. In 1976 and 1977 he headed a commission appointed by Congress that charted the future of the United States Postal Service.
        He became chairman of First National Bank in 1969, three decades after he joined the bank as a lawyer. He retired in 1975 but remained active in business affairs, speaking for the Midwestern industrial community served by the bank.
        Mr. Freeman, who was known throughout his life as Gale, was born in Chicago and was a graduate of Dartmouth College and Harvard University Law School. In World War II he was vice chairman of the Army Air Force's Chicago area price adjustment section.
        Over the years Mr. Freeman served on Presidential commissions on matters of housing, health, manpower, international trade, investment policy, productivity and the quality of life. In 1957 he was appointed an assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury and for two decades after that he served on various Treasury committees.
        In Illinois he was chairman of the Governor's special group on cost control from 1977 to 1981. He was a director of many corporations, including Atlantic Richfield, Northwest Industries and Bankers Life and Casualty.
        He was a life trustee of Northwestern University, a director of the MacArthur Foundation, a trustee of the Aspen Institute of Humanistic Studies and a governor of the United Nations Association.
        Mr. Freeman maintained a 26,000-acre ranch in southern New Mexico where he raised cattle.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Frances Lee; two daughters, Linda Taylor of Lake Forest, Ill., and Clara Farah of Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, William, of Hinsdale, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      