
        Maurice Harold Friedman, a medical doctor and reproductive-physiology researcher who developed the "rabbit test" to determine pregnancy, died Friday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 years old.
        He died of cancer after a long illness under the care of the Hospice of Southwest Florida, said one of his three daughters, Barbara F. Mishkin, of Chevy Chase, Md.
        It was while teaching physiology at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School in the early 1930's that Dr. Friedman developed his test for pregnancy, which became widely known as the "rabbit test."
        In the test, a woman's urine sample was injected into a female rabbit. If the woman was pregnant, the urine would contains hormones that would cause formations, known as corpora lutea and corpora hemorrhagica, in the rabbit's ovaries. The popular belief that the rabbit died as a result of a positive test itself was not true. Rather, the rabbit would be killed before a laboratory cut it open to determine whether the ovary formations had developed.  'It's Highly Reliable'
        Asked to comment on the efficiency of his test, Dr. Friedman would say: "It's highly reliable. The only more reliable test is to wait nine months."
        But later the Friedman test was replaced by pregnancy kits that determine the presence of the hormones in pregnant women without the use of animals.
        A gastroenterologist, Dr. Friedman served for several years as a member of the staff of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was also associate professor of medicine at the Georgtown medical school and vice chairman of the department of medicine at Washington Hospital Center.
        Born Oct. 27, 1903, in Gary, Ind., he entered the University of Chicago at the age of 16. Upon receiving his bachelor's degree, he went on to earn his Ph.D and M.D. at the university.
        In 1928, he joined the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania, where he taught and did research in the department of physiology. In 1936, he settled in Washington and went to work for the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center, where he pursued his research in reproductive physiology. Served in Army Air Force
        During World War II Dr. Friedman served with the Army Air Forces as a medical officer. In 1946 he opened a private practice in internal medicine in Washington.
        Retiring from his practice in 1959, he remained active in civic affairs, serving as financial adviser to the Planned Parenthood Association. He was a member of the board of the National Symphony Orchestra and the Community Chest and a member of the Cosmos Club.
        He is survived by his wife, Gertrude Sanders Friedman, who is in the Collinswood Nursing Center of Rockville, Md; two other daughters, Edith F. Grant of Bethesda, Md., and Joan F. Martin of Norfolk, Va.; a brother, Arthur B. of Los Angeles; nine grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      