
        Lee Sabinson, a Broadway producer and film executive, died on Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived at the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood.
        He died of pneumonia and congestive heart failure, his brother, Harvey, said.
        Mr. Sabinson's greatest Broadway success was the musical "Finian's Rainbow." It opened in January 1947 with Ella Logan and David Wayne, and ran for 723 performances.
        Mr. Sabinson, who was born in New York City, attended City College, and served as a courier for the Spanish Republican Army during the Spanish Civil War. He was a manuscript reader for Columbia Pictures and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer before becoming a producer with "Counterattack," by Janet and Philip Stevenson, in 1943.  Threat From the City
        In 1944 he presented Dorothy and Howard Baker's play "Trio," which caused controversy because of its perceived lesbian theme. The play, starring Richard Widmark, Lydia St. Clair and Lois Wheeler, was forced to close after its 67th performance when the City threatened to cancel the license of the Belasco Theater.
        In 1945 Mr. Sabinson presented "Home of the Brave," which marked the Broadway debut of the playwright Arthur Laurents.
        After the success of "Finian's Rainbow" in New York, London and on a national tour, Mr. Sabinson produced Dalton Trumbo's play "The Biggest Thief in Town," at a time when the writer was blacklisted in Hollywood.
        Mr. Sabinson himself was blacklisted after appearing before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1953. He told the committee he believed in lending his name to "every effort for peace," indicating he would do so even if it were Communist-inspired. Considering himself a political refugee, he lived in England in the mid-1950's. In the 1960's he served as an executive with Columbia Pictures, Cinema Center and Paramount.
        Surviving besides his brother, who is executive director of the League of American Theaters and Producers, are his wife, Bily; two daughters, Lois Hecht of Manhattan and Mara Sabinson-Bergman of Hanover, N.H.; a sister, Dr. Mollie Schildkrout of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      