
        Sean O'Faolain, an Irish writer who was considered a master of the short story, died on Saturday in the Dublin nursing home where he had lived for two years. He was 91 years old.
        A spokeswoman for Aclare House, the nursing home, said only that Mr. O'Faolain had died after a short illness.
        For more than 60 years, Mr. O'Faolain (pronounced oh-FAY-lawn) won over readers with short stories that were known for their artful blend of lyricism, humor and irony. A prolific writer, he also wrote novels, biographies of leading Irish figures, plays and travelogues.
        "As I see it," he said, "a short story, if it is a good story, is like a child's kite -- a small wonder, a brief, bright moment."  Ireland With Some Irony
        Mr. O'Faolain, in both fiction and nonfiction, recounted much of the often stormy history of 20th-century Ireland from his personal perspective. He sought to depict his countrymen with compassion and wit, without sentiment and hyperbole. In an interview with his daughter, Julia O'Faolain, also a novelist and short-story writer, he offered this appraisal:
        "Everything I write is romantic. But I know too that I have to put in -- that my only hope of sanity and balance is to put in -- irony. Irony is the only element that saves me from being soppy."
        "Of all the significant O's in 20th-century Irish literature," the writer Paul A. Doyle observed, "Sean O'Casey is the most humorous and flamboyant, Liam O'Flaherty the most emotional and unpolished, Frank O'Connor the most satiric and whimsical, and Sean O'Faolain the most versatile and profound."  Influenced by the Stage
        Mr. O'Faolain, whose original name was John Francis Whelan, was born in County Cork on Feb. 22, 1900, the son of a constable. "From an early age he was inhibited," Gordon Henderson wrote in his Dictionary of Literary Biography, by "his father's unquestioning respect for authority, his mother's excessive piety, and the preoccupation both had with rising above their peasant-farmer origins."
        He was also influenced by the plays he saw at the nearby Cork Opera House and particularly by an Irish play, "The Patriot," by Lennox Robinson, and recalled later:
        "For years I had seen only plays straight from the West End of London. Here was a most moving play about Irish peasants, shop-keeping and farming folk, men and women who could have been any one of my uncles and aunts down the country. It brought me strange and wonderful news -- that writers could also write books and plays about the common everyday reality of Irish life."
        The most traumatic event of his youth was the Easter rebellion of 1916. He first opposed the uprising, but soon became enraged by the brutality of the British forces in crushing it and executing its leaders. He studied Gaelic, changed his name and joined in anti-British activities, but avoided extreme violence, observing later, "To have cast me for the role of a gunman would have been like casting me as a bull-fighter."  Stories of the Troubles
        Concentrating on studies, he graduated from University College at Cork, earned a second master's degree at Harvard and lectured in English at Princeton, Boston College and St. Mary's College in England. He then became a full-time writer and recounted the lives of people caught up in what the Irish refer to as the Troubles.  Among his first works were the novels "A Nest of Simple Folk" (1933) and "Bird Alone" (1936).
        But it was for his short stories that Mr. O'Faolain earned the attention and praise of critics. Gary Davenport, writing in The Hudson Review, said Mr. O'Faolain "is a loyal but critical Irishman; he is capable of denouncing Irish provincialism of both the nationalist and religious genres, but unlike Shaw he denounces it from within; he lives in Ireland and he remains a Catholic. And these stories are full to bursting with life."
        "Like Joyce and O'Connor," Gordon Henderson wrote, Mr. O'Faolain "took the short story as he received it from Maupassant and Chekhov and transformed it into something uniquely his own and uniquely Irish."
        Later works among his more than 20 books include "The Collected Stories of Sean O'Faolain," published in 1983 by Atlantic, Little Brown & Company; the reprinted novels "Come Back to Erin" (Greenwood Press, 1972) and "And Again?" (Birch Lane Press, 1989) and the autobiography "Vive Moi" (Little Brown, 1964).
        Besides his daughter, Mr. O'Faolain leaves a grandson.
      