
        Andrew Boyle, an author and broadcaster whose 1979 book, "The Climate of Treason," led to the exposure of the "fourth man" in a notorious Soviet spy ring in Britain, died of cancer on Monday, his family announced Tuesday. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Boyle was convinced of the complicity of Anthony Blunt (the fourth man) in the spy ring that included Guy Burgess, Donald MacLean and Kim Philby, but could not prove it, and so referred to Anthony Blunt under a pseudonym, Maurice, in "The Climate of Treason." The book was published in the United States by Dial Press with the title "The Fourth Man." The name of Maurice was taken from the E. M. Forster novel of the same name.
        Amid intense speculation about Maurice's identity, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in November 1979 identified him as Sir Anthony Blunt, the art adviser to Queen Elizabeth II.
        Mrs. Thatcher told the House of Commons that Sir Anthony had confessed to security authorities in 1964 to being a Soviet spy while working for the British counterespionage service M.I.5 during and after World War II. She said he had been granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for information he gave about his colleagues. Sir Anthony, who was knighted in 1956, was stripped of this honor after Mrs. Thatcher's announcement was made.
        Mr. Boyle first stumbled on Anthony Blunt's involvement when the author visited Cambridge University in 1976 during the early stages of research for "The Climate of Treason."
        He established that Anthony Blunt had worked closely with Mr. Burgess to turn the proceedings of the Apostles, a secret society at the university, into a Marxist cell in the 1930's. Anthony Blunt died in 1983 at 75.
        Andrew Philip More Boyle was born in Dundee, Scotland, in 1919 and educated at Blairs, Aberdeen, and the University of Paris. He served in British military intelligence in the Far East in the latter part of World War II and after the war joined the British Broadcasting Corporation as a radio scriptwriter and producer.
        In 1965, he started a radio news program called "The World at One." Broadcast daily at 1 P.M., it gained a reputation as one of the best informed news programs and won an audience of four million.
        Mr. Boyle's first wife, the former Christina Galvin, died in 1984. He leaves his second wife, the former Eleanor Ransome, and a son and a daughter by his first marriage.
      