
        Arthur Derounian, who as John Roy Carlson wrote "Under Cover,"a 1943 book detailing Fascist activities in the United States before and during World War II, died on Tuesday at the library of the American Jewish Committee on East 56th Street. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Derounian was engaged i research work at the library when he suffered an apparent heart attack, said Micnele Anish, an assistant librarian. He was pronounced dead at Bellevue Hospital.
        Under his pen name Mr. Derounian wrote two other exposes, "The Plotters" (1946), dealing with bigotry in America, and "Cairo to Damascus" (1951) about intrigue in the Middle East.
        Mr. Derounian was a native of Alexandropolis, Greece and grew up in Bulgaria and Turkey before coming to the United States with his famliy in 1926. He lived in Mineola, L.I., worked his way through New York University's School of Journalism in the Depression and became a reporter and editor for an Anglo-Armenian weekly.  Pamphlet Led to Book
        In 1938 he chanced upon an anti-Semitic pamphlet that led him to the American Nationalist party. Working variously for Fortune magazine and two private organizations -- the Council Against Intolerance and the Friends of Democracy -- he embarked on a five-year journey through the half-hidden world of American Nazi and other ultra-right-wing groups.
        The result of his experiences with organizations like the Christian Mobilizers, American Destiny Party and a secret gun club called the Phalanx was "Under Cover," which became an instant best-seller.
        For "The Plotters" and "Cairo to Damascus" Mr. Derounian followed a similar pattern of research, and both books also met with success. He continued to write newspaper and magazine articles on snti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry.
        Mr. Derounian is survived by his wife, the former Marie Nazarian; a daughter, Elyse, of Manhattan; a son, Robert, of Penfield, N.Y.; a brother, Steven, who is a retired United States Representative and New York State Supreme Court Justice from Long Island now living in Austin, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      