
        Laz Barrera, the Cuban-born trainer who won the 1976 Kentucky Derby and Belmont Stakes with Bold Forbes and the 1978 Triple Crown with Affirmed, died yesterday at Rio Hondo Hospital in Downey, Calif.
        He was 66 years old and had been suffering from an inflammation of the lungs, according to the hospital, which listed cardiopulmonary failure as the cause of death.
        Mr. Barrera, who lived in Arcadia, Calif., had undergone two heart operations within the last few years and had been in decidedly poor health recently, especially since the death of his younger brother, Oscar, a New York trainer, on April 4. Career Revived Last Year
        In a 50-year career that began with promise in Cuba, continued brilliantly in Mexico and came to full fruition in the United States, Laz Barrera trained 128 different stakes winners, won the Eclipse Award as the outstanding American trainer for four straight years, from 1976 to 1979, and was the nation's leading money winner five times, from 1977 to 1979 and in 1984 and 1986.
        Although Mr. Barrera's career had declined in recent years, it revived somewhat last year when he saddled his first legitimate 3-year-old contender since Affirmed. This was Mister Frisky, who was undefeated until placing eighth in the Kentucky Derby, but managed third in the Preakness.
        But then it could hardly have been any better after 1978, when Mr. Barrera reached the pinnacle of his profession in what many horsemen regard as the greatest set of Triple Crown races since the Kentucky Derby was established in 1875, the great duel between Affirmed and Alydar. An Exciting Series
        Alydar, the outstanding Calumet Farms colt ridden by Jorge Velazquez, was the 6-5 betting favorite in the Kentucky Derby, and Affirmed, a Florida-bred chestnut ridden by 18-year-old Steve Cauthen, was the 9-5 second choice.
        But Affirmed held off a thrilling stretch charge by Alydar to win by 1 1/2 lengths. Two weeks later, after an even more thrilling duel, Affirmed won the Preakness by a neck. Three weeks after that, in the most exciting match of all, Affirmed won the Belmont by a head.
        There have been 10 Triple Crown winners since Sir Barton, trained by H. Guy Bedwell, became the first in 1919. And while there will probably be others in the future, after his victory with Affirmed in 1978 Mr. Barrera had a lifetime of satisfaction in the knowledge that until someone does it again no one has done it since. Affirmed Likened to Joe DiMaggio
        Although Mr. Barrera described Affirmed, a horse the lifetime Yankee fan likened to Joe DiMaggio, as his favorite, what he called his best moment in racing came on his birthday two years earlier, when Bold Forbes, another second favorite, turned the tables on the oddsmakers and won the Kentucky Derby on May 8, 1976. The same day another Barrera-trained horse, Life's Hope, won the Illinois Derby and still another, Due Diligence, won the Carter Handicap.
        Bold Forbes could do no better than third in the Preakness, and as a sprinter should have had little chance of winning the mile-and-a-half Belmont, but he did, a feat that still surprises his jockey, Angel Cordero Jr.
        At Aqueduct yesterday Cordero recalled Barrera's work with Bold Forbes as "one of the best training jobs anyone's ever done with a horse."
        "Not many people could make a sprinter go a mile and a quarter or a mile and a half," he said. "It amazed me and I was working and riding the horse. Up to this moment I still can't believe that the horse won." Ninth of 12 Children
        Lazaro Sosa Barrera was born in Havana on May 8, 1924, the ninth of 12 children of a jockey and the daughter of a French missionary.
        Following a family tradition, he began working at Oriental Park, a track built on land his grandfather once owned.
        He got his Cuban training license at the age of 16 and within five years had shifted his base to Mexico, where he had a sensational debut with five straight winners. Then the authorities discovered he was a few months short of the minimum age of 21 and revoked his license until he came of age. Trained for Wolfson
        He came to the United States in 1948 and after working at smaller tracks began getting better horses after joining Louis Wolfson, the owner of Harbor View Farms and Affirmed, in 1974.
        Mr. Barrera's career was put under a cloud two years ago when he was charged by California authorities with giving his horses cocaine, but he was cleared.
        Mr. Barrera, who was credited with bringing 29 Cuban relatives to the United States, had many relatives in racing.
        His survivors include his wife, Carmen; three brothers, Luis, Willie and Angel, all trainers; two sons, Albert and Larry, both trainers, and a daughter, Blanca.
      