
        Graham Greene, the British author whose novels of suspense and moral ambiguity plumbed the sordid politics of the modern world and the inner torments of mankind, died yesterday at La Providence Hospital in Vevey, near Lake Geneva in Switzerland. He was 86 years old.
        The official cause of death was not immediately known, but his daughter, Caroline Bourget, told Reuters that her father died of a blood disease. Mr. Greene lived in an apartment in Antibes, France, but had traveled all over the world in search of subject matter during his 60-year writing career.
        Among Mr. Greene's 24 novels, many of which were adapted into films, were "The Power and the Glory," "The Heart of the Matter," "The Third Man," "The Quiet American," "Our Man in Havana," "The Comedians," "The Honorary Consul" and "The Human Factor."  27 Languages, 20 Million Copies
        His plays included "The Living Room," "The Potting Shed" and "The Complaisant Lover," and he wrote dozens of short stories. His work was translated into 27 languages and sold more than 20 million copies in hard-cover and paperback editions.
        He also wrote travel books, essays and children's stories, and two autobiographies, "A Sort of Life" and "Ways of Escape." An occasional contributor to newspapers and magazines, he even found time to write strong letters to the editor on political and literary matters.
        That Mr. Greene never received the Nobel Prize in Literature was a source of regret and astonishment to many readers and publishing professionals.
        In his outspoken comments on world affairs in fiction and in fact -- including criticism of American military intervention in Vietnam and in Central America -- Mr. Greene felt an obligation to express his views first and foremost as a moralist. He was a convert to Catholicism but not, he asserted, a Catholic writer.
        "I think a writer ought to be a bit of grit in the state machine," he once said. "That applies to a democratic state machine, a socialist state machine or a Communist state machine."
        Mr. Greene was a superb storyteller with a gift for provoking controversy by writing topical novels in political settings. But many of his deepest concerns were spiritual: a soul working out its salvation or damnation amid the paradoxes and anomalies of 20th-century existence.
        Spiritual problems, however, were frequently overshadowed, especially for readers in this country, by Mr. Greene's distaste for what he regarded as American hypocrisy and materialism. "The Quiet American" (1956) and "The Comedians" (1966), for example, offended some readers because of their criticism of United States policies in Vietnam and Haiti.
        Besides serious fiction, Mr. Greene also wrote what he described as "entertainments." These -- "Orient Express," "This Gun for Hire," "Brighton Rock" and "Our Man in Havana," for instance -- were first-rate novels of crime and intrigue. But they, too, showed a profound interest in the interplay of morality and abnormal behavior. "Brighton Rock," he wrote in his 1980 autobiography, "Ways of Escape," was "perhaps one of the best I ever wrote."
        In addition, Mr. Greene was often labeled a Roman Catholic writer, a description that annoyed him but that nevertheless colored understanding of his work. He was indeed a convert to Catholicism and he did deal with doctrinal issues, but he insisted that he was not a church publicist. Roman Catholic Ideas But Church Objections
        "Only a few of my books have a religious emphasis -- 'Brighton Rock,' 'The Power and the Glory,' 'The End of the Affair' and 'The Heart of the Matter' -- but I don't consider myself a Catholic writer, but a writer who took characters with Catholic ideas as his material," Mr. Greene said in an interview with Alden Whitman of The New York Times in Paris in 1967. "After all, one of my novels, 'The Power and the Glory,' was condemned by the Holy Office in 1951."
        That book, in which the cult of the spiritual holds back the people, whose true enemies are the priests, shocked many Catholics. "I was not upset," Mr. Greene said in 1967. "In a private audience, Pope Paul told me he had read the novel and liked it. 'Parts of your novels will always offend some Catholics, but you should not bother,' the Pope said."
        Later, in a 1978 interview, Mr. Greene acknowledged a lingering skepticism about religion, and particularly Catholicism:
        "I don't like many English Catholics," he said. "I don't like conventional religious piety. I'm more at ease with the Catholicism of Catholic countries. I've always found it difficult to believe in God. I suppose I'd now call myself a Catholic atheist."
        The Catholic-writer label was first affixed when "Brighton Rock" was published, and then more firmly after the publication of "The Heart of the Matter," one of his most popular books with both critics and public, though Mr. Greene said he thought it flawed. After the book came out, he wrote in 1980, "at a stroke I found myself regarded as a Catholic author in England, Europe and America -- the last title to which I had ever aspired." At His Works' Center, A Sense of Evil
        Yet Mr. Greene did not deny that he viewed the world through a moralist's eyes. This was also the conclusion of many critics. One critic, Richard Church, a Briton, summed up the prevailing attitude:
        "He sees his characters, and the scenes in which they make their penance, with an eye that elongates them and draws them into gestures made in a garish light. He delights to expose the raw nerves of evil, showing it as a force in the world, a skeletonlike figure working visible mischief in the ordinary everyday affairs of men and women and children."
        Mr. Greene's writer's appeal, however, extended beyond readers concerned with good and evil to encompass those who liked a good story. He had some of the narrative flair of Robert Louis Stevenson, to whom he was related. He had, moreover, a talent for depicting local color, which he gathered at first hand; a keen sense of the dramatic; an ear for dialogue, and skill in pacing his prose.
        Mr. Greene's backgrounds and situations often grew out of his own wanderings. In the late 1930's, he wrote, "a restlessness set in then which has never quite been allayed; a desire to be a spectator of history, history in which I was concerned myself."
        Again and again in his autobiography, Mr. Greene stressed this desire to be on the edge of danger; writing of his visits to Indochina, he mentions being attracted by the women, the evening light and, "above all, by the feeling of exhilaration which a measure of danger brings to a visitor with a return ticket." Prose That Traveled Too Swiftly to Stall
        "The average Greene novel," wrote the critic Adam de Hegedus, "seems to be based on a theory which is not unlike that principle of aerodynamics according to which the aircraft must maintain a specific speed or else it would tumble down. This speed Greene achieves by a masterly selection of detail, by a splendid economy of language and by swift and frequent changes of scene."
        Mr. Greene had a somewhat puffy face and eyes that looked down warily from his 6-foot 2-inch height. His manner was generally affable but shy. In talking, he had a tendency to skip over his R's.
        He had an obvious fondness for order and quiet that contrasted with his adventurous life. Born Oct. 2, 1904, in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, England, he was one of four sons of Canon Charles Henry Greene and the former Marion Raymond Greene, who were cousins. Graham attended Berkhamsted School, of which his father was headmaster, and then Balliol College, Oxford. His childhood, he said, was unhappy. The Deadliest of Games Becomes a Habit
        The biographer Norman Sherry, in "The Life of Graham Greene, Volume I: 1904-1939" (Viking, 1989), described a crisis that the future author went through in his second-to-last year at Berkhamsted: two classmates persecuted him -- among other things, for being bad at games -- and he suffered a nervous collapse.
        His family then sent him to a psychoanalyst in London, prompting an experience that in the long run, Mr. Sherry wrote, "may well have established his life's pattern of escaping from the impossible or the boring into unknown and dangerous environments which would stimulate, offer fresh experiences and also provide copy for his novels."
        Mr. Greene himself wrote later that "the psychoanalysis fixed the boredom as hypo fixes the image on a negative." So he took to playing Russian roulette with an elder brother's revolver.
        "I slipped the bullet into a chamber and, holding the revolver behind my back, spun the chambers round," he recalled. "I put the muzzle of the revolver to my right ear and pulled the trigger. There was a minute click, and looking down the chamber I could see that the charge had moved into place. I was out by one."
        Mr. Greene took the revolver with him to Balliol and continued to play Russian roulette until he found that "I was beginning to pull the trigger about as casually as I might take an aspirin tablet."
        Later on, Mr. Greene experimented with opium, marched across Liberia and went, in wartime, into Malaya, Kenya and Indochina.
        Out of Oxford, where he had briefly been a member of the Communist Party, Mr. Greene worked as a copy editor on The Times of London from 1926 to 1930. "I am journalistically minded," he once said. And he fiercely took issue with those who questioned the journalistic accuracy of his fiction, especially in "The Quiet American."
        "Some critics have referred to a strange violent 'seedy' region of the mind (why did I ever popularize that last adjective?) which they call Greeneland, and I have sometimes wondered whether they go round the world blinkered," he wrote later. " 'This is Indochina,' I want to exclaim, 'this is Mexico, this is Sierra Leone carefully and accurately described. I have been a newspaper correspondent as well as a novelist. I assure you that the dead child lay in the ditch in just that attitude. In the canal of Phat Diem the bodies stuck out of the water. But I know that argument is useless. They won't believe the world they haven't noticed is like that." His Fiancee's Religion Becomes His Own
        It was just before he joined The Times that he became a convert to Catholicism from Anglicanism. Summarizing the experience, the psychiatrist and author Robert Coles wrote in 1989, in The New York Times Book Review, that it came about through Mr. Greene's relationship with his future wife, Vivien Dayrell-Browning, herself a convert to Catholicism. Her "moral and religious preoccupations became very much his," Dr. Coles wrote, and "at the age of 22, he was received into the Roman Catholic Church."
        In an interview published in 1983, Mr. Greene said a first step in the process was the day when, while attending a Catholic service, "I slipped a note into a collection box, asking for instruction because my fiancee was Catholic.
        "I wanted a better grasp of the nature of her faith. I had no thought of becoming a convert myself."
        His subsequent conversion, he said, "was purely intellectual," because of the arguments of a priest, a Father Trollope, "which persuaded me that God's existence was a probability."
        On another occasion, Mr. Greene wrote that it was not until years later, when he had first traveled to Mexico, that he found "emotional belief" as opposed to intellectual acceptance of his religion.
        A year after his conversion, Mr. Greene married Miss Dayrell-Browning. The couple had a son and a daughter and then separated in the 1960's. His daughter, Caroline Bourget, lives in Jongny, Switzerland. His son, Francis, lives in Devon, England.
        Mr. Greene's first two novels, "The Man Within" and "The Name of Action," were written while he was on The Times. He left that newspaper in 1930 to become a movie critic, first for the periodical Night and Day and then for The Spectator, for the next 10 years. Early in this period he began his entertainments ("The difference between an entertainment and a novel is about 20,000 words") with "Orient Express," which was titled "Stamboul Train" in Britain.
        This thriller almost immediately became popular, as were most of his in that genre. His reputation as a novelist soared with "Brighton Rock," published in 1938, which deals with homicide in the British resort town of Brighton. International renown came in the years after the war, especially with "The Heart of the Matter" in 1948.
        The scene of this novel, considered among his best, is in West Africa, where Mr. Greene did intelligence work for the British Government during World War II. The protagonist is Maj. Henry Scobie, an essentially commonplace man capable of pity to the point of obsession. It is pity that does the major in. Although a Roman Catholic, his sympathy for, and understanding of, his wife and his mistress lead him to commit suicide to keep from hurting their feelings. The burden of love proves too much for him. 'The Quiet American' Is an American Success
        Among Mr. Greene's big successes in this country was "The Quiet American," published in 1956. The novel is a tart study of an American Government do-gooder in Saigon during the anti-French uprisings of the mid-1950's. The writer insisted that he was not anti-American and that his novel recorded only what he saw in Saigon, where he was the correspondent, in 1954, for The New Republic.
        Mr. Greene was especially fond of "The Power and the Glory," a novel published in 1940. It is the story of a manhunt in the jungles and mountains of Mexico. The hunted is the last priest in a state where religion is outlawed: an imperfect priest, prey to alcohol and lust, yet a humble man who loves God.
        Many of Mr. Greene's books were made into movies, but he said he felt the movies did not serve him well. "I hate the adaptations of my books, except when I do them myself, and then I don't always like them," he said.
        Once he had attained success, Mr. Greene spent much of his time traveling. But he worked during these journeys, too, dictating and revising. "I like writing after breakfast," he explained, "and revising after a good dinner, when I have Dutch courage."
        He was a steady writer who was not afraid to discard projects, even when they were well advanced, if they failed to satisfy him. "I hope I'm an artist," he told a visitor in 1967; on another occasion, in a bleaker mood, he remarked, "I have no talent; it's just a question of working, of being willing to put in the time." The Effects of Place And of Henry James
        Mr. Greene was often asked what other writers had influenced him, and for this he had a ready reply:
        "What one reads doesn't influence one as much as where one is. Still, a great many writers have had their effect on me. The serious ones, I guess, were Ford Madox Ford, Joseph Conrad and Henry James. He was my idol, but to say he influenced me is a bit absurd -- like saying a mountain influenced a mouse."
        Mr. Greene's structuring of his novels seemed ideally suited to the camera and the stage. "I have a theatrical mind," he once said. But his own plays -- including "The Living Room," "The Potting Shed," "The Complaisant Lover," "Carving a Statue" and "The Return of A. J. Raffles" -- were not outstandingly successful.
        Mr. Greene's long writing career made him wealthy as well as famous. He was little affected, because he preferred privacy to basking in adulation. He enjoyed his income, nonetheless, for it permitted him to live in considerable comfort and to eat well.
        Of his many works, "The Honorary Consul," he said, was especially hard to write, and "perhaps the novel I prefer to all the others," while "Travels With My Aunt" was "the only book I have written for the fun of it." "Travels With My Aunt," which came out in 1969, is a lighthearted novel about a retired bank employee traveling around the world with 75-year-old dowager who has a black lover named Wordsworth.
        Mr. Greene's literary fame was recognized formally in 1966, when he was named by Queen Elizabeth II as a Companion of Honor. In 1986, he received one of the highest British honors, the Order of Merit.
        Critical enthusiasm waned for Mr. Greene's later works. "The Honorary Consul" (1973), "The Human Factor" (1978) and "The Captain and the Enemy" (1988) all received uneven reviews.
        Mr. Greene himself had long since taken a detached view of questions of literary success or failure. Striking the understated note of guilt and gloom that was catnip to his loyal readers, he told an interviewer in 1971: "One fails in all sorts of ways in life, doesn't one, which are much more important than writing books. In human relations and that sort of thing."
        But another estimation of his feelings about his work came in "Ways of Escape," when he wrote, "Writing is a form of therapy; sometimes I wonder how all those who do not write, compose or paint can manage to escape the madness, the melancholia, the panic fear which is inherent in the human situation." Opening Words on the Moral Anxieties of an Anguished Century
        In the course of a career that spanned more than six decades, Graham Greene wrote 24 novels, along with many short stories, essays and plays and two volumes of autobiography. Here is a sampling from the opening chapters of some of his novels and a list of some major works.
        Mr. Tench went out to look for his ether cylinder: out into the blazing Mexican sun and the bleaching dust. A few buzzards looked down from the roof with shabby indifference: he wasn't carrion yet. A faint feeling of rebellion stirred in Mr. Tench's heart, and he wrenched up a piece of the road with splintering fingernails and tossed it feebly up at them. One of them rose and flapped across the town: over the tiny plaza, over the bust of an ex-president, ex-general, ex-human being, over the two stalls which sold mineral water, towards the river and the sea. It wouldn't find anything there: the sharks looked after the carrion on that side. Mr. Tench went on across the plaza.
        He said "Buenos dias" to a man with a gun who sat in a small patch of shade against a wall. But it wasn't like England: the man said nothing at all, just stared malevolently up at Mr. Tench, as if he had never had any dealings with the foreigner, as if Mr. Tench were not responsible for his two gold bicuspid teeth.
        -- From "The Power and the Glory" (1940, Viking)
        Wilson sat on the balcony of the Bedford Hotel with his bald pink knees thrust against the ironwork. It was Sunday and the Cathedral bell clanged for matins. On the other side of Bond Street, in the windows of the High School, sat the young negresses in dark-blue gym smocks engaged on the interminable task of trying to wave their wirespring hair. Wilson stroked his very young moustache and dreamed, waiting for his gin-and-bitters.
        Sitting there, facing Bond Street, he had his face turned to the sea. His pallor showed how recently he had emerged from it into the port: so did his lack of interest in the schoolgirls opposite.
        -- From "The Heart of the Matter" (1948, Viking)
        One never knows when the blow may fall. When I saw Rollo Martins first I made this note on him for my security police files: "In normal circumstances a cheerful fool. Drinks too much and may cause a little trouble. Whenever a woman passes raises his eyes and makes some comment, but I get the impression that really he'd rather not be bothered. Has never really grown up and perhaps that accounts for the way he worshiped Lime." I wrote there that phrase "in normal circumstances" because I met him first at Harry Lime's funeral. It was February, and the gravediggers had been forced to use electric drills to open the frozen ground in Vienna's Central Cemetery. It was as if even nature were doing its best to reject Lime, but we got him in at last and laid the earth back on him like bricks.
        -- From "The Third Man" (1950, Viking)
        After dinner I sat and waited for Pyle in my room over the rue Catinat: he had said, "I'll be with you at latest by 10," and when midnight had struck I couldn't stay quiet any longer and went down into the street. A lot of old women in black trousers squatted on the landing; it was February and I suppose too hot for them in bed. One trishaw driver pedaled slowly by towards the river front, and I could see lamps burning where they had disembarked the new American planes. There was no sign of Pyle anywhere in the long street.
        Of course, I told myself, he might have been detained for some reason at the American Legation, but surely in that case he would have telephoned to the restaurant -- he was very meticulous about small courtesies. I turned to go indoors when I saw a girl waiting in the next doorway. I couldn't see her face, only the white silk trousers and the long flowered robe, but I knew her for all that.
        -- From "The Quiet American" (1956, Viking) Novels Orient Express (1932) This Gun for Hire (1936) Brighton Rock (1938) The Confidential Agent (1939) The Power and the Glory (1940) The Ministry of Fear (1943) The Heart of the Matter (1948) The Third Man (1950) The End of the Affair (1951) The Quiet American (1956) Our Man in Havana (1958) A Burnt-Out Case (1961) The Comedians (1966) The Honorary Consul (1973) The Human Factor (1978) The Tenth Man (1985) Travel Journey Without Maps (1936) Plays The Living Room (1953) The Potting Shed (1957) The Complaisant Lover (1959) Autobiography A Sort of Life (1971) Ways of Escape (1980)
      