
        In 20 years on Capitol Hill, 5 of them in the House and 15 in the Senate representing Pennsylvania, John Heinz built a solid record as a persistent defender of the nation's growing elderly population and of the declining steel industry.
        A moderate-to-liberal Republican, one of the rarer political species in his party, he was never a major legislative figure in either the House or the Senate. Rather, he was known for his great wealth; he was heir to the Heinz food company fortune and one of this country's richest politicians. Still, the 52-year-old lawmaker left a legislative mark that was discernible and important, with most of the achievement occurring while he was serving in the Senate on two major committees, Finance and Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.
        The Senator was instrumental in pushing through legislation that put the Social Security system on sounder financial footing. He played a major role in strengthening laws regulating retirement policies, pension plans, health insurance and nursing homes. And he pushed successfully for trade laws that encourage American exports and protect American products, like steel, from foreign imports.  Political Stands Pay Off
        Mr. Heinz's concentration on trade and the elderly was particularly intense and paid off handsomely for him politically in his home state. which has an unusually large elderly population and an unusually troubled steel industry. In six elections, he won every time, beating most opponents by roughly 2 to 1, cutting heavily into the Democratic vote on labor and social issues.
        While Mr. Heinz was an effective legislator on the issues of particular interest to him, he was never an especially popular legislator on Capitol Hill, never a man his colleagues clapped on the back with fondness or nudged with an elbow while enjoying a good laugh. Many found him cool, even aloof, and patrician, and some were put off by his stubborn persistence in pursuing his legislative goals.
        Seemingly aware that this perception of him, whether right or wrong, might be a drawback in a setting where collegiality and camaraderie are important tools of the trade, he tried in his early days in the Senate to soften the image a bit, even dropping his full name, Henry John Heinz 3d, and thereafter passing as John Heinz. But most colleagues still refused to accept him as plain folks and, in any event, he could not escape the sobriquet with which he had lived all his life -- "heir to the H. J. Heinz food company fortune." Inherited Great Wealth
        As a Heinz scion, the Senator was, in fact, a very wealthy man. He was the largest individual shareholder in the Pittsburgh-based company, with control of almost 6 percent of its stock. His holding was valued at roughly $350 million. Otherwise, his involvement in the company, founded by his great-grandfather in 1869, was limited mainly to a brief stint in the late 1960's as a marketing specialist before he entered politics.
        Born Oct. 23, 1938, in Pittsburgh, John Heinz was the only child of Henry John Heinz 2d and Joan Diehl Heinz. His parents divorced when he was a child and he divided his early years between his mother's home in San Francisco and his father's house in Fox Chapel Borough, a Pittsburgh suburb. The Senator maintained a home there.
        He attended Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire and earned a B.A. at Yale and an M.B.A. at Harvard. After that he served in the Air Force as an enlisted man and then took the marketing job in the Heinz office at Pittsburgh.
        Mr. Heinz's interest in politics developed while he was working for the family company and came face to face with the effect elected officials have on a community, its people and their businesses. He became involved in local politics, then branched out to state politics, working in several campaigns. Successful Run for House
        In 1971 Representative Robert J. Corbett, the Republican who represented Mr. Heinz's hometown in Congress, died. Mr. Heinz, then 33 years old, decided to seek the seat in the special election that followed. He easily won his party's nomination, then went on to defeat the Democratic candidate, John E. Connelly, a businessman, with similar ease.
        Over the next five years, Mr. Heinz twice sought re-election and twice won handily, cutting deeply into the Democratic vote by relying on his record of support for the elderly and the steel industry.
        In 1976, when Hugh Scott, a Republican who was his party's leader in the Senate, retired, Mr. Heinz jumped to fill that political void. The contest that followed was Mr. Heinz's toughest.
        First he had to fight for his party's nomination against Arlen Specter, a former Philadelphia district attorney who is now Pennsylvania's other United States Senator, and George R. Packard, a former Philadelphia newspaper editor. He squeaked by.
        Then, in the general election, he faced Representative William J. Green 3d, a Philadelphia Democrat. Pouring in almost $2.5 million of his own money, Mr. Heinz again squeaked by with 52 percent of the vote.
        By 1982 he was back on safe political ground, winning re-election easily with almost 60 percent of the vote, and following up in 1988 with a re-election victory in which he got 66 percent of the vote.
        Tall and athletic, with good looks to match, Mr. Heinz enjoyed a good game of tennis or a quick downhill run on skis when he was not politicking. He was also a collector of art, with a particular liking for Dutch and Flemish still-lifes.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Maria Teresa Thierstein Simoes-Ferreira, and three children, H. John 4th, 24; Andre, 21, and Christopher, 18.
      