
        Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist, dramatist and essayist, died yesterday at his home outside Zurich. He was 79 years old.
        He died of cancer, his son, Hans Peter Frisch, told the Associated Press.
        A major theme of Mr. Frisch's fiction was the individual's struggle to retain his or her identity in a world of shifting values, totalitarian ideologies and technological revolutions. His writings are multilayered structures, full of parables and ironies.
        His works, written over half a century and translated into more than 20 languages, include the novels "I'm Not Stiller" (1958), "Homo Faber" (1959), "A Wilderness of Mirrors" (1966) and "Man in the Holocene" (1980); diaries like "Sketchbook 1946-1949" and "Sketchbook 1966-1971"; and the plays "The Firebugs" and "Andorra." There were productions of "The Firebugs" in New York City in 1963 and 1975 and one of "Andorra" in 1963.  Praised for Variety of Style
        Over the years, his best works were praised by reviewers for their variety and originality of style, for lucidity and elegance of form, and for restraint and universality.
        George Stade, a writer and teacher at Columbia University, said in a 1980 appraisal of Mr. Frisch's works in The New York Times Book Review that each of the plays "has its moral, in the sense that the problem it poses, in theory at least, is capable of solution."
        "The problem," Professor Stade wrote, "is some sort of political or social aberration; the moral is that we better do something about it."
        Professor Stade also noted that each of the novels "has as its central character either someone who tries to escape from himself or who writhes in the nets of definition others cast over him or who finds out, too late, that he is not what he took himself to be."
        He hailed Mr. Frisch's "Man in the Holocene," which recounted the slow, inexorable decline into senility of a 74-year-old widower, as a "luminous parable of indeterminable purport" and "a masterpiece."  An Answer to Critics
        Some reviewers criticized Mr. Frisch's writing as pessimistic and negative. The writer offered this rebuttal in an interview in The New York Times in 1981:
        "I believe it is much more negative not to suffer by not showing those things, because if you suffer, it means that you will want something else in life, something more. Praising things as they are is just giving in."
        For many years, Mr. Frisch was considered a leading candidate for the Nobel Prize. That award eluded him, but his many honors included the 1985 Common Wealth Award by a jury of the Modern Language Association and the 1986 Neustadt International Prize for Literature by jurors from nine countries.
        Max Rudolf Frisch, the son of an architect, was born in Zurich on May 15, 1911. He studied literature at Zurich University and architecture at the Zurich Institute of Technology. He was a foreign correspondent for several newspapers in Europe and the Middle East, then practiced architecture in Zurich until the mid-1950's, when his first fiction successes allowed him to write full time.
        Mr. Frisch, who served in neutral Switzerland's army during World War II, termed himself a socialist but never joined the political party, deriding it as "too well-behaved." He aroused controversy among fellow Swiss for terming them timid and unadventureous. In his novel "I'm Not Stiller," he taunted his countrymen for "fear of the future, fear of one day being poor, fear of life."
        In contrast, he had high praise for New York City, where he lived in the early 1950's while writing "I'm Not Stiller" with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, and later, from 1980 to 1983.
        He was exhilarated by New York and by a sense of discovering a new world, observing, "It is stimulating for me because it condenses all the problems of our times." In New York, he said, "every invented story is possible."
        Mr. Frisch, who also lived in Rome for awhile, described himself as a religious skeptic. When asked once to correct any errors that had been published about him, he replied, "Fame is based on misstatements, so you should not correct them."
        He was married and divorced twice. His survivors, besides his son, include two daughters, Ursula and Charlotte.
      