
        Miles F. McDonald, whose investigation into police corruption as Brooklyn District Attorney led to Mayor William O'Dwyer's resignation, died on Wednesday at Jupiter Hospital in Tequesta, Fla. He was 85 years old and lived in Tequesta.
        He died after a stroke, his son, Miles Jr., said.
        Mr. McDonald, a former United States Attorney in Brooklyn who later served as a state judge, was elected as Brooklyn District Attorney in 1945, a post he held until 1952.
        During his term, Mr. McDonald conducted an investigation into police corruption and gambling that resulted in the Mayor's resignation, the conviction of a number of police officers and the resignation of the Police Commissioner. The shake-up brought about the resignation or removal of the chief inspector along with high-ranking members of his staff and a reorganization of the city's Police Department. A Child-Support Measure
        He was also responsible for the arrest and prosecution that led to the conviction of Harry Gross, whose $20 million-a-year bookmaking syndicate paid $1 million a year in graft to law-enforcement officers to keep operating.
        While District Attorney, Mr. McDonald was the author and sponsor of the Uniform Support of Dependents Act, a child-support bill that was considered one of the most progressive legislative measures in social-reform efforts and served as a model for the entire country.
        He was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1952 and resigned in 1971 to return to private practice as counsel to the law firm of Shea & Gould.
        As a State Supreme Court justice, he also served as administrative judge for the Second Judicial District. He was also a former presiding justice of the Appellate Term of the court for the Second and 11th Judicial Districts.
        He graduated cum laude from Holy Cross in 1926 and received a law degree from Fordham in 1929. He joined the law firm of Wingate & Cullen in Brooklyn, where he remained until he was appointed as an assistant district attorney for Kings County in 1940.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Alice Marie Shelare; three sons, Miles Jr., a lawyer, of Riverside, Conn., Alan S., an executive with NBC, of Denver, and John R., an executive recruiter, of Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Joanne Roddy of Swampscott, Mass., and nine grandchildren.
      