
        Louis Joxe, a veteran public servant and senior Gaullist official credited with negotiating Algeria's independence from France, died yesterday in Paris. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Joxe's place in history was assured by the success of the talks at Evian-les-Bains in 1962 and the republic's survival of a military putsch and colonist revolt in strife-torn Algeria. His decisions in France's next great crisis, the student uprising and labor unrest of 1968, drove him from the Ministry of Justice.
        A former history teacher, Mr. Joxe turned to government service and diplomacy in 1932 as a member of the French delegation to the League of Nations. Mobilized during World War II, he fled the Germans to Algeria in 1940 and joined the Resistance.
        He taught for some time in Algiers, but the Vichy Government, suspecting his allegiance to Gen. Charles de Gaulle's Free French, banished him to the countryside.  Quick Rise in Government
        Toward the end of the war, Mr. Joxe served as Secretary General of the Committee for National Liberation. After the German retreat and the general's triumphant entry into Paris, Mr. Joxe's rise in Government quickened.
        He handled cultural affairs in the Foreign Ministry before being sent to Moscow as Ambassador in 1952. He held the same post in Bonn before returning to Paris as Secretary General in the Foreign Office.
        In 1959, with General de Gaulle presiding over France's Fifth Republic, Mr. Joxe became Secretary General in the Prime Minister's office.
        Mr. Joxe was known as a witty and sometimes wily negotiator who could escape into vagueness when that seemed the preferable approach to a problem. Silver-haired and ruddy-faced, he also had a reputation as a raconteur and the ability to show good humor as well as stiff spine.
        All his skills were put to the test when President de Gaulle called on him to fill the hottest seat on his Cabinet in 1960, Minister of State in charge of Algerian affairs. The Muslim majority of Algeria had been in a sustained rebellion against France since the mid-1950's, while French colonists demanded full integration with the mother country and parts of the army challenged the political leadership.  Challenge of '68 Protests
        But the Evian accords, signed in the fashionable French spa in March 1962, ended French control over the territory and the warfare there. Mr. Joxe then served as Minister of State for Administrative Reform until 1967, when he took over the Ministry of Justice.
        Mr. Joxe served as acting chief of Government in the absence of Prime Minister Georges Pompidou. This was the case when the student uprising began in 1968. But it was mainly his role as Justice Minister that cost him his job when the disturbances in universities and factories got out of hand.
        Mr. Joxe retired as a member of the Constitutional Council in 1989.
        Among his survivors is a son, Pierre Joxe, France's current Defense Minister, a Socialist.
      