
        John Carter, the clarinetist and composer, died at Daniel Freeman Hospital in Los Angeles on Sunday morning. He was 61 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of complications from lung cancer, his son John Jr. said yesterday.
        Mr. Carter, an extraordinarily virtuosic improviser, was considered by many musicians to be one of the the deans of the West Coast jazz avant-garde. He grew up with Ornette Coleman in Fort Worth in the 1940's, and much of the rest of his career was spent investigating tangents of jazz and black musical traditions.
        Before moving to Los Angeles in 1961, Mr. Carter taught in the public schools in Fort Worth in addition to performing; he continued to teach and perform in Los Angeles until his death. But he was constantly busy outside the school system.
        In 1964, Mr. Carter formed one of his more important groups, the New Art Jazz Ensemble, starting what became a longtime collaboration with the trumpeter Bobby Bradford, who had been Ornette Coleman's first trumpeter. A year later, Mr. Carter conducted orchestral music by Mr. Coleman at the University of California at Los Angeles, and in the 1970's was part of the Little Big Horn workshop with Mr. Bradford, the young flutist James Newton and the saxophonist Arthur Blythe. Mr. Carter also ran Rudolph's, a Los Angeles performance space that attracted many of jazz's top musicians.  A College and a Summit
        In the 1980's, Mr. Carter, who helped scores of musicians, founded the Wind College with the bassist Red Callender and Mr. Newton, and led the Clarinet Summit, an exceptional group of four clarinetists that included David Murray and the former Ellington side man Jimmy Hamilton.
        The 1980's also saw Mr. Carter's flowering as a musician and composer. Not only did he solidify his technique, extending the clarinet's musical and emotional range, but he also began recording a series of five suites, starting in 1982 with "Dauwhe," that together were called "Roots and Folklore: Episodes in the Development of American Folk Music." The pieces were often performed at the Public Theater in Manhattan and at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
        The suites allowed Mr. Carter to use his extensive knowledge of American music and other forms as well. They combine different tempos, extremes in dynamics and other modernist ideas with the smoothness of the blues and jazz tradition. Mr. Carter mixed generations as well -- his suites used the Count Basie veteran Benny Powell on trombone and the young musician Marty Ehrlich on saxophone -- and his groups regularly featured jazz musicians from all generations.
        In addition to John Jr., Mr. Carter is survived by his wife, Gloria; a daughter, Karen, and two other sons, Stanley and Christopher, all of Los Angeles.
      