
        John MacGregor Blewer, a lawyer and president of Pacific American Investors Inc., an investment counseling concern in Salt Lake City, died on Sunday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 60 years old.
        He died of kidney cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Blewer, a native of New York City, founded Pacific American Investors in 1989. In 1969 he had established John M. Blewer Inc., an investment counseling concern in Manhattan. Later it became a subsidiary of Financiere Credit Suisse-First Boston, a Zurich banking concern, with Mr. Blewer continuing as chief investment officer. He left that post in 1989.
        Mr. Blewer graduated from Princeton University and Yale Law School. From 1955 to 1958, he served in Army counterintelligence in Tokyo as a legal adviser.
        On returning to the United States, he joined the Manhattan law firm of Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland & Kiendl. There he helped start the Japan Fund, the first mutual fund with assets exclusively in Japanese securities.
        In 1962 he joined Nikko Securities Company Ltd., becoming one of the first Americans to serve as an officer of a Japanese investment concern. In 1964 he left Nikko to become a director of Loomis, Sayles & Company, investment advisers in Boston. And in 1968 he joined J.M. Hartwell, investment counselors, as vice president.
        His marriage to the former Sondra Gerdau ended in divorce.
        He is survived by four daughters, Cecilia, of Manhattan, Evelyn, of Paris, Victoria, of Lincoln, Vt., and Julia Cox of Boston; a son, McGregor, of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Phillips of Fairfield, Conn., and a grandson.
        Correction:  April 10, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about John M. Blewer, a lawyer who headed an investment counseling concern, rendered the name of a surviving son incorrectly and omitted the name of the son's mother. The son is John MacGregor Blewer Jr. of Manhattan. His mother, whose marriage to Mr. Blewer ended in divorce, is Barbara Welter.
      