
        Thomas M. Sullivan, a civil engineer who played a central role in the development of both Kennedy International Airport and the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, died Sunday at Humana Hospital Medical City in Dallas. He was 77 years old and lived in Dallas.
        He died of heart failure, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Sullivan was executive director of the Regional Airport Authority, the agency that took 17,541 acres of land midway between Dallas and Fort Worth and converted it into a $700 million airport that opened in 1974.
        He took over development of the airport in 1968 and left in 1975 to become the director of marketing and ground transportation for the Vought Corporation now known as LTV, in Dallas. He retired in 1978. Served With Port Authority
        From 1947 to 1968 he was chief of aviation planning for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. In the 1950's he had a major part in the design and construction of Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy Airport was then known. He was also influential in the development of La Guardia Airport, Newark International Airport and heliports in Manhattan. Before joining the Port Authority, he was first deputy director of aviation for Trans World Airlines.
        Mr. Sullivan was a 1935 graduate of Oklahoma State University. He served as a consultant on construction of airports around the world, including Heathrow Airport in London and Orly Airport in Paris. In 1970 he was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Presidential Airport Advisory Commission that developed a national airport safety plan.
        He received many honors, including the Port Authority's Distinguished Service Medal in 1957 and the Erik Jonsson Aviation Award in 1989.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a son, Patrick of Bedford, Tex.; a daughter, Kathleen Baugher of Manhassett, L.I.; three brothers, Daniel of Springfield, Mo., Richard Eugene of Tulsa and John Michael of Boerne, Tex., and five grandchildren.
      