
        Charles H. Goren, one of the greatest figures in the history of contract bridge, died on April 3 in Encino, Calif., one month after celebrating his 90th birthday.
        His nephew, Marvin Goren, with whom he had lived for the last 19 years, said yesterday that Mr. Goren had suffered a heart attack at home.
        In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Goren was Mr. Bridge to millions of players around the world, matching the reputation of Ely Culbertson in the 1930's.
        His development of point-count bidding and many books, columns and articles made his name a household word, and his reputation was bolstered by a string of tournament successes that included a world title.  Born in Philadelphia
        Charles Henry Goren was born on March 4, 1901, in Philadelphia and attended McGill University in Montreal. While there, a young hostess laughed at the weakness of his bridge game, and he resolved to master it.
        He returned to Philadelphia in 1923 with a master's degree in law from McGill, was admitted to the bar, and practiced law for 13 years. But he also studied the writings of Milton Work, the greatest authority on auction bridge, and became Mr. Work's technical assistant at the end of the decade as auction bridge gave way to the new game of contract bridge.
        Mr. Goren gradually became known as a player, a teacher and a writer of such books as "Winning Bridge Made Easy" and "Highlights of Winning Bridge."  Major Titles
        He won major titles in 1933, and The Chicago Tribune and The Daily News in New York chose him as their syndicated bridge columnist when Culbertson moved to another syndicate. Mr. Goren's breakthrough as a player, starting a run of uninterrupted success, came in 1937. Together with three other Philadelphians -- Charles Solomon, Sally Young and John Crawford -- he won the National Board-a-Match Teams, an event that he was to win seven more times in the next quarter-century.
        He won the Spingold Knockout Teams championship in 1947 and 1960 and the Vanderbilt Knockout Teams in 1944 and 1945, together with 18 other national victories. He was a runner-up on 21 occasions. In 1944, he moved to the top of the career master-point rankings and held that position until 1962, when he was overtaken by Oswald Jacoby.
        He was awarded the McKenney Trophy, for the top master-point winner in a year, on eight occasions, a record.
        He had many of his greatest successes with women as his partners, particularly Helen Sobel. He believed that women were at least as good as men at bridge, with less vanity about their ability, but that men usually won because of greater stamina.
        Mr. Goren's own style emphasized adaptability and natural tactics rather than systems and artificial conventions. His methods became the basis of Standard American bidding, which is still used by almost all American players.
        He became a world champion in Bermuda in 1950 as a member of the American team in the first of a series still known as the Bermuda Bowl, and was on teams that placed second in two other world championships, in 1956 and 1957. He also played in 1960 in the first World Team Olympiad.  A Classic Work
        As a player he considered himself an amateur and never played for high stakes. When he won $1,500 in a charity tournament, he donated it to the charity.
        In 1942, he published "Contract Bridge Complete" (Doubleday), a classic work that is now in its 12th edition. Then came another breakthrough. He adopted a suggestion of a Toronto actuary, William Anderson, and added distributional valuation: counting short suits as a supplement to the 4-3-2-1 count associated with his mentor, Milton Work. A void was counted as three points, a singleton as two, and a doubleton as one.
        "Point-Count Bidding" (Simon & Schuster, 1949), quickly persuaded the bridge public to abandon Culbertson's cumbersome honor-trick valuation and use the simple and effective point count that Culbertson's rivals had vainly urged two decades earlier. A whole generation of new players learned the Goren method, and almost all players have counted points ever since. One authority reported that Goren had knocked out Culbertson on points.  Bridge Program on TV
        Three of his other best-selling titles were "The Standard Book of Bidding" (Doubleday, 1944), "The Standard Book of Play" (Doubleday, 1942) and "Contract Bridge in a Nutshell" (Doubleday, 1946). He wrote nearly 40 books in all and a vast number of magazine articles. His writings on the game were translated into a dozen languages. In 1963, it was estimated that his books had sold more than 8 million copies, and the total is now put at well over 10 million.
        He became the star of the first successful bridge program on television. "Championship Bridge with Charles Goren," which ran from 1959 to 1964, won an award as one of the best new television features and has often been shown in reruns.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Goren became widely known as Mr. Bridge, and the American Contract Bridge League, officially if belatedly, awarded him that title in 1969. His importance as a world figure was recognized when he was on the cover of Time magazine.
        In 1973, he was awarded the honorary degree of doctor of laws by McGill University. He served on the American Contract Bridge League's laws commission and was chosen as its Honorary Member for 1959.
        Mr. Goren was a lifelong bachelor, wedded to the game. He lived for many years in Manhattan and later in Miami Beach.
        He retired from tournament bridge in 1966, facing health problems, and in 1971 moved to California. Some of his last games of bridge, in the 1970's, were in a social group that included the comedian George Burns.
        His closest survivors are two nephews and a niece.
      