
        Samuel M. Lambert, retired executive secretary of the National Education Association, the country's largest professional union, died Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. Lambert died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        He was with the association for 22 years, beginning in 1950 as assistant research director. He became research director in 1956, assistant executive secretary in 1965 and executive secretary, the chief administrative position, in 1967. He held the post until 1972 when he retired.
        While he was president the organization of more than one million school teachers and administrators was increasing at the rate of more than 1,000 members a week. The present membership exceeds two million.
        Dr. Lambert took charge when the union was reflecting a growing militancy on the part of teachers. His attitude differed from that of Albert Shanker, president of the United Federation of Teachers. Mr. Shanker regarded the late 1960's, when teachers began taking part in work stoppages and strikes, as the end of the image "of the good old dedicated teacher who gets kicked around and once a year, on Teacher Recognition Day, is handed a flower for his lapel."  He Saw Desire to Live Better
        To Dr. Lambert, the events demonstrated the American teacher's desire to live better "in this era of electric toothbrushes" and a genuine desire to change some of the conditions that he said made effective teaching impossible.
        The increased teacher militancy fanned the already growing rivalry between the two organizations.
        Dr. Lambert, a native of Canebrake, W.Va., graduated from West Virginia University, where he also received a master's degree. He earned his doctorate from George Washington University.
        Before joining the education association he taught high school mathematics and social studies in Bluefield, W.Va., and was director of research and planning of the West Virginia Education Association.
        He belonged to a number of professional groups, among them the American Association of School Administrators and the National Association of State Educators.
        Dr. Lambert is survived by his wife, the former Juanita Bates; two daughters, Sylvia Ann Lambert of Bethesda, Md., and Rebecca Lambert-Potts of Bowie, Md.; and four grandsons.
      