
        James Schuyler, who won the 1981 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, died early yesterday morning at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He was admitted to the hospital on April 5 after a stroke, said Amelia Durand, a spokeswoman for his publishers, Farrar, Straus & Giroux .
        Mr. Schuyler belonged to what has come to be known as the New York School of poets, a group that came into view in the 1960's and 70's and has been closely associated with painters. These poets write in ways that are close to ordinary speech patterns, with much anecdote, humor and first-person material.
        Mr. Schuyler's own poetry is prosy-seeming, often about his friends, and is set partly in New York and partly in Vermont and Southampton, L.I., where he also spent much time.
        Other admiring poets say he was particularly skilled at writing descriptive poems about cityscapes and country landscapes. His friends included the landscape painter Fairfield Porter, who also lived in the Hamptons.
        Praising Mr. Schuyler, Paul Breslin of Northwestern University wrote in The New York Times Book Review, "How much he manages to include, and make present to the mind's eye, in a few lines."
        Professor Breslin was writing about the 117-page volume of poetry that won Mr. Schuyler the Pulitzer Prize. It was "The Morning of the Poem," which came out in 1980, and it included these lines:
        The big
        barn had been struck by
        Lightning and burned down. The men were rebuilding
        it: Mrs. Gold fed the
        Chickens and let me help: the pigs were big and
        to be kept away from: they
        were mean: on the back porch was the separator,
        milk and cream, luxurious
        Ice cream, the best, the very best, and on the
        front porch stood a spinet
        Whose ivory keys had turned pale pink: Why?
        James Marcus Schuyler was born Nov. 9, 1923, in Chicago, the son of Marcus James Schuyler and the former Margaret Connor. He studied at Bethany College in West Virginia and the University of Florence in the 1940's.
        His other books of poetry include "Salute" (1962), "May 24th or So" (1966), "Freely Espousing" (1969), "A Sun Cab" (1972), "Hymn to Life" (1974), "A Few Days" (1985) and "Selected Poems" (1988). His prose writings included fiction and children's fiction.
        Over the years he won several other awards and was variously a Guggenheim fellow, a fellow of the American Academy of Poets, a critic for Art News magazine and a staff member at the Museum of Modern art.
        There are no immediate survivors, Ms. Durand said.
        A funeral service is to be held at 6:30 P.M. Tuesday in the Church of the Incarnation, 209 Madison Avenue, at 35th Street.
      