
        George Speri Sperti, a research scientist who invented a wide range of products, including a sunlamp and the patent medicines Preparation H and Aspercreme, died Monday at St. Elizabeth Medical Center North in Cincinnati. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Sperti, who lived in Burlington, Ky., had suffered several strokes and probably died of an abdominal aneurysm, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Sperti, who developed Aspercreme for arthritis relief and Preparation H, the hemorrhoid treatment, held more than 120 patents. He also devised methods to enhance Vitamin D in milk and to freeze-dry orange juice concentrate.
        Mr. Sperti studied electrical engineering at the University of Cincinnati and got his start as an inventor while in college. Using materials from his mother's kitchen and part of a hacksaw blade, he fashioned a device to measure the consumption of electricity by large industrial users. He sold the invention to the Westinghouse Electric Corporation for $30,000. Profits Donated to Research
        After graduating from the university in 1923 and working as a research assistant for two years, he was named director of its Basic Science Research Laboratory, a position he held for 10 years. His process for irradiating milk to increase its Vitamin D content was bought by General Foods for $300,000. He donated the money to the university to further the work of the laboratory.
        In 1935, in collaboration with the Archdiocese of Cincinnati, he founded the Institutum Divi Thomae, a graduate school of scientific research named in honor of St. Thomas Acquinas.
        Mr. Sperti, who served as president and director of the institution, supported it with profits from his research that included the Sperti sunlamp, ultraviolet germicidal devices, yeast for enrichment of animal feed, frozen orange juice concentrate, burn ointment and a variety of cosmetics and medicinal creams. The institution, which was later named the St. Thomas Institute for Advanced Studies, closed in 1988, when Mr. Sperti became ill.
        Mr. Sperti worked for the Cincinatti Gas & Electric Company and for the Duncan Electric & Manufacturing Company before joining the University of Cincinnati.
        In World War II he was a consultant to the War Production Board. He was the recipient of a number of honors and awards from religious and educational institutions.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      