
        Claude Marks, a painter, writer and longtime lecturer on art at the Metropolitan Museum, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of leukemia, said Georgiana Morrison, a close friend.
        Armed with a broad knowledge of art history, Mr. Marks lectured throughout the United States. From 1956 until a week before his death, he made more than 1,200 appearances at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, covering such topics as the Medici in Florence and Rome, the Impressionists, 20th-century art, the arts of Mexico and the art cities of Italy. His lectures, laced with wit, were enlivened by references to film, politics and literature.  Medieval Life in France
        He also wrote several books, among them "Pilgrims, Heretics and Lovers," (1975), a portrait of medieval life in France, and "From the Sketchbooks of the Great Artists," an evocation of art history from the working sketchbooks of master painters and sculptors. For young people, he wrote an illustrated songbook in 1987, "Go In and Out the Window."
        As a painter, Mr. Marks specialized in theatrical portraits. He counted among his subjects Sir John Gielgud, Sir Ralph Richardson, Sir Alec Guinness, Lord Olivier, Joel Gray, Marlene Dietrich, Julie Harris and Glenda Jackson, often catching them in performance or offstage. His theater paintings and drawings are in the collections of the Brooklyn Museum, the Museum of the City of New York and the New York Public Library. A show of his work, "Theater People and Places," is to open June 4 at the Royal National Theater in London. Harrow, Cambridge and Iowa
        Born and brought up in London, Mr. Marks attended Harrow and graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge. He studied painting and stage design in Paris, Fontainebleau and Salzburg. He came to the United States in the 1930's, and served in the United States Army during World War II. After the war, he received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the University of Iowa.
        Mr. Marks's wife, Sue Blagden, a poet, died in 1980. Their son, David, died a year earlier. Mr. Marks is survived by a cousin, Irene Roth of Manhattan, and a nephew, John Delacy of Portland, Ore.
        A memorial service is to be held at the Metropolitan Museum on Oct. 2.
      