
        Harry Slochower, a Brooklyn College professor who refused to tell a Congressional commmittee in the 1950's whether he had been a Communist Party member, died on Saturday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 90 years old.
        He died of heart failure, an associate, Maynard Solomon, said.
        In 1952 Dr. Slochower, (pronounced SLOCK-our), was called before a Senate Internal Security subcommittee investigating subversive activities. He invoked the Fifth Amendment when asked whether he had been a Communist in 1940 and 1941, and he was dismissed as a professor of German and comparative literature at Brooklyn College.
        He sued for reinstatement, and in 1956 the Supreme Court ruled that he had been denied due process of law. He was reinstated with more than $40,000 in back pay but was suspended almost immediately on charges that he had made false statements under oath at the Senate hearing.
        Before a scheduled departmental trial, Dr. Slochower resigned. He spent the rest of his life, until his final illness, in the practice of psychanalysis. He also taught at the New School of Social Research from 1964 until 1989.
        Dr. Slochower was born in Bukowina, then part of Austria and now in Romania, and came to the United States in 1913. He graduated from City College and held master's and doctoral degrees from Columbia. He joined the Brooklyn College faculty in 1930.
        An authority on the works of Thomas Mann, Dr. Slochower wrote five books of literary criticism, including "Three Ways of Modern Man" (1937), "Thomas Mann's Joseph Story" (1938) and "No Voice Is Wholly Lost" (1945). He also contributed widely to philosophical, literary, Marxist and psychoanalytic journals and was editor in chief of American Imago, a psychoanalytic quarterly, from 1964 until his death. For many years he was president of the Association for Applied Psychoanalysis.
        Dr. Slochower is survived by a daughter, Joyce, of Manhattan, a psychoanalyst and professor of psychology at Hunter College; a sister, Mildred Becker of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      