
        Shintaro Abe, one of Japan's top politicians for nearly two decades and leader of an influential faction of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, died today after a two-year illness. He was 67 years old.
        There have been reports, never confirmed, that he suffered from cancer. He reportedly died of liver failure, although other reports said the cause of death was heart failure. His health was said to have been failing since he underwent bile-duct surgery two years ago.
        Mr. Abe (pronounced ah-bay), a former journalist who once sought to become a kamikaze pilot, was groomed to become Prime Minister, holding every top job in his party and a number of important Cabinet posts. He was Japan's longest-serving postwar Foreign Minister, holding the post from 1982 through 1986, at a time when Japanese-American relations generally grew closer.  Done In by Scandal
        But Mr. Abe fell just short of his political goal when he was caught up in a major influence-peddling scandal, derailing his long and steady climb toward the prime ministership.
        His involvement in the Recruit scandal of 1988, in which a political secretary accepted unlisted shares in a company seeking influence among top politicians, eliminated him from the race to run the Government.
        But he continued to lead the second-largest faction in the Liberal Democratic Party. Along with Noboru Takeshita, a former Prime Minister who heads the party's largest faction, Mr. Abe exerted great influence over Japanese politics.
        In 1989 he became ill, and despite frequent suggestions that he might again be considered for the Prime Minister's job, his deteriorating health made that seem unlikely.
        Mr. Abe was born on April 29, 1924, in Yamaguchi prefecture, in western Japan. His father became mayor of his hometown and then was elected to Parliament in 1936 as a conservative.
        After graduating from high school early in 1944, Mr. Abe entered a naval aviation school and volunteered to become a kamikaze pilot. But the war ended before he could undergo special training, and he went on to obtain a law degree from Tokyo University in 1949.
        After graduation, he became a political reporter for Mainichi Shimbun, a leading national daily. His political career began when he married into a prominent political family. In 1951, he wed Yoko Kishi, the daughter of Nobusuke Kishi, who became Prime Minister a few years later.
        Mr. Abe left journalism in 1956 when his father-in-law was appointed Foreign Minister, and served as his secretary. He remained Mr. Kishi's secretary when Mr. Kishi was named Prime Minister in 1957.
        In 1958, Mr. Abe was elected to the lower house of Parliament and was re-elected 10 times.  Appointed to Cabinet Posts
        In 1974 his rising stature was confirmed when he was named Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, the first of four Cabinet posts he held. Later he served as chief Cabinet secretary, Minister of International Trade and Industry, and Foreign Minister.
        Mr. Abe ran unsucessfully for the presidency of the Liberal Democratic Party twice -- against Yasuhiro Nakasone in 1982 and Mr. Takeshita in 1987. The job has carried with it the prime ministership, as the Liberal Democrats have governed Japan without interruption since the end of American postwar occupation.
        He became party secretary general in 1987 and was widely regarded as the leading candidate to succeed Mr. Takeshita. But the Recruit scandal brought down Mr. Takeshita, along with other top politicians, and halted Mr. Abe's rise.
        Despite his failing health and infrequent public appearances, Mr. Abe continued as a power broker. His faction holds five of the 20 posts in the Cabinet of the current Prime Minister, Toshiki Kaifu.
        Mr. Abe was last seen in public on April 18, when he attended a lunch for the visiting Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev. He had been hospitalized since January.
        His death is expected to set off a scramble for the leadership of his faction, and possibly a major realignment within the Liberal Democratic Party, as a restless younger generation seeks to take power from an older generation tainted by the Recruit scandal and seemingly unable to lead Japan forcefully into the post-cold-war era.
        Messages of condolence and praise poured in from around the world. President Bush sent a letter to Mr. Abe's family. Former Secretary of State George P. Shultz commented, "He was a wise, energetic, and constructive partner in an effort to improve conditions in the world and relations between Japan and the U.S."
        He is survived by his wife and two sons. A funeral service is scheduled for Friday in Tokyo at Zojoji Temple.
      