
        Nat (Feets) Broudy, the longtime basketball timekeeper at Madison Square Garden, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, a worker in the National Basketball Association office said.
        For 32 years, Mr. Broudy sat behind the control panel and operated the game clock at thousands of games involving the New York Knicks, college and high school teams, and for Harlem Globetrotter exhibitions. He once worked nine games in a single day.
        Basketball is a game measured by minutes, sometimes even seconds, and when the clock would malfunction Mr. Broudy was occasionally accused of favoring one team over the other. Ran First 24-Second Clock
        The story goes that during a Big East Conference tournament game, with one second remaining and Georgetown University losing by a point, John Thompson, the Georgetown coach, came screaming at Mr. Broudy, believing that there should be more time showing on the clock. But before Mr. Thompson got to him, Mr. Broudy yelled: "I'm sorry! The clock got excited!" That ended the argument.
        Mr. Broudy, who retired two years ago, also worked the first 24-second clock when it was adopted by the National Basketball Association for the 1954-55 season.
        "The clock was originated by Danny Biasone, the owner of the Syracuse Nationals," Mr. Broudy once said. "He thought the game was too slow because teams were holding on to the ball too long. So they had a scrimmage in Syracuse and it was decided that 24 seconds would be time enough to shoot. Biasone said teams had up to 10 seconds to get the ball across the time line and at least 14 seconds to shoot it. He used to joke that the players would end up with arthritis in their hands from shooting so much."
        Mr. Broudy's apartment in downtown Manhattan had the appearance of an annex to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass. There were dozens of awards and certificates and mementos he received or collected through the years. But the item he seemed to cherish most was the framed towel that hung over his bed, inscribed to him by Bill Bradley, the former Knick who is now a Senator from New Jersey.
        "Like all ballplayers," Mr. Broudy once said, "Bill Bradley was very superstitious. He used to come out of the locker room with a towel in his hand, wiping his perspiration. As he would run past me, he would always throw me the towel. Before his last game with the Knicks, he took a new towel and signed it to me and my sister, Evelyn."
        Mr. Broudy is survived by another sister, Lee Daves of Jersey City.
      