
        Alan M. Voorhees, a prominent transportation engineer and city planner whose work helped give rise to the Interstate highway system in the United States, died on Dec. 18 in Richmond, Va. Mr. Voorhees, who was also an entrepreneur and philanthropist, was 83 and made his home in Alexandria, Va.
        No cause of death has been determined, his daughter Nancy Voorhees said.
        In the 1950's, with rising automobile use a major problem for civic planners, Mr. Voorhees developed a mathematical model that could predict the ebb and flow of highway traffic. His model helped make feasible the design and construction of the Interstate system.
        In the 1960's, as the principal in Alan M. Voorhees & Associates, a consulting firm specializing in transportation engineering and urban planning, Mr. Voorhees helped build subway systems in major cities around the world. In recent years, he was involved in real estate and other business ventures.
        A member of the National Academy of Engineering, Mr. Voorhees also endowed research centers at several universities. These included the Alan M. Voorhees Transportation Center at Rutgers, established in 1998, and the Voorhees Computing Center at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. He also donated significant collections of antique maps to the Library of Congress and other institutions.
        Alan Manners Voorhees was born on Dec. 17, 1922, in Highland Park, N.J. His engineering studies at R.P.I. were interrupted by service as a Navy frogman in World War II, for which he received the Bronze and Silver Stars.
        Returning to R.P.I., Mr. Voorhees earned a bachelor's degree in civil engineering in 1947, followed, in 1949, by a master's in city planning from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1952, he earned a certificate from the Yale Bureau of Highway Traffic and afterward worked as a city planner in Colorado Springs.
        After nearly a decade working for the Automobile Safety Foundation in Washington, Mr. Voorhees founded his own firm in 1961. His company helped design stations for the Washington Metro and worked on the designs for subway systems in São Paulo, Brazil; Caracas, Venezuela; and Hong Kong.
        Mr. Voorhees's other philanthropic work included providing major support to Voorhees College, a historically black college in Denmark, S.C., endowed by one of his ancestors; creating the Voorhees Nature Preserve on the Rappahannock River in Virginia; and establishing the Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum at Rutgers, named in honor of his mother.
        Mr. Voorhees's wife of 51 years, the former Nathalie Potter, died in 2000. Besides his daughter Nancy, of Bethesda, Md., he is survived by two other children, Susan V. Hunt of McLean, Va., and Scott, of London; two brothers, Ralph, of Highland Park, and Fred Zimmerli of Telford, Pa.; and six grandchildren.
      