
        Julius Wile, a noted wine importer and educator, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 91.
        His death followed a long illness, according to his son, Andrew.
        Mr. Wile's life centered on food and wine. Until he retired in 1978 as co-chief executive officer of Julius Wile Sons & Company, a wine and spirits importing business in New York, Mr. Wile devoted almost all his time to the Culinary Institute of America, in Hyde Park, N.Y., originally as a board member and later as board chairman. Mr. Wile had long been interested in education as a keystone of the growing hospitality industry. In 1953, while still actively involved in the wine business, he prepared and taught the first wine and spirits courses at Cornell University's Hotel School in Ithaca, N.Y., traveling from New York City to Ithaca once a week for 30 years to give his lecture.
        He first became interested in the Culinary Institute of America in the 1960's through his work with the Wine and Food Society. When Julius Wile Sons & Company was sold to RJR Nabisco in 1972, he began to spend more time with the institute.
        The C.I.A., as the school is known, was founded in New Haven in 1946 with 50 students and now has more than 3,000 students at Hyde Park and at a newer campus in the Napa Valley in California.
        In 1993 the institute became the first culinary school to award a bachelor's degree in culinary arts management. Two years later, when the first full college class enrolled, Mr. Wile was awarded its first honorary doctor of fine arts degree.
        Wine was Julius Wile's second choice as a career. In 1936 he graduated from New York University with a degree in aeronautical engineering. The Depression was in full swing, however, and eventually he settled for a job with the family business. Julius Wile Sons & Company was founded in 1877 by Mr. Wile's grandfather, also Julius, a refugee from German-controlled Alsace. Aside from military service in World War II, Mr. Wile spent his entire professional life in the family business.
        He helped found the Commanderie de Bordeaux, a group dedicated to promoting Bordeaux wines in this country. He wrote the wine section in the Encyclopedia Britannica's ''Book of the Year'' for decades, and, in the 1970's, rewrote Frank Schoonmaker's book ''Encyclopedia of Wine,'' first published in 1941.
        He is survived by his son and a daughter, Barbara Wile Schwarz; three grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      