
        Robert E. Rich, who abandoned his family's dairy business to create the first nondairy whipped topping, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92.
        A spokeswoman for the company Mr. Rich founded, the Rich Products Corporation, based in Buffalo, said he died after a short illness.
        Mr. Rich became a food processing pioneer at a time when modern machinery and advances in food technology had made possible a variety of culinary marvels. One product had its origins in the milk shortages in the United States during World War II. Large amounts of dairy products were being sent overseas for the war effort, so Mr. Rich set about creating a process for replacing cow's fat with vegetable oil in the production of dessert toppings.
        Made with corn syrup, sugar and isolated soybean protein, Mr. Rich's soybean ''cream,'' introduced in 1945, lasted longer in the refrigerator than dairy-based whipped cream and could remain frozen for more than a year without degrading. It also cost less than the dairy-based version.
        Rich Products introduced America's first commercial soy ice cream, Chil-Zert, in 1951, and one of the first nondairy creamers, Coffee Rich, in 1960.
        Born on July 7, 1913, in Buffalo, the son of a local ice cream manufacturer, Mr. Rich spent the first part of his life learning the dairy business, working summers at his father's plant. After graduating from the University of Buffalo, he briefly owned and operated a small dairy plant.
        Mr. Rich later waged many legal battles against the dairy industry over its attempts to have nondairy products banned. His court victories played an important role in legitimizing nondairy products.
        Today, Rich's Whip Topping is just one small part of the company Mr. Rich created. With sales of $2.5 billion last year, Rich Products sells more than 2,300 products in more than 85 countries.
        The company, which has remained private and family run, maintains a low profile. Most of its products are sold not under the Rich brand name but rather as part of the company's food service business.
        Rich Products bakes breads for supermarkets, for instance, and sells barbecued meat, frozen shrimp, cookies and pizza dough to restaurants, hospitals and schools.
        Among the products marketed under the company's own brand are the original Rich's Whip Topping, Coffee Rich nondairy coffee creamer and Rich's Eclairs. The company will continue to be run by Mr. Rich's son, Robert Rich Jr.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Rich maintained a passion for sports. He was captain of the football and wrestling teams at the University of Buffalo and after college had several football coaching stints. He also played squash until his 60's and played golf until several months before his death.
        Rich Products also owns several minor league baseball teams, the Buffalo Bisons, the Wichita Wranglers in Kansas and the Jamestown Jammers in New York. In the late 1980's, Mr. Rich worked unsuccessfully to bring a major league team to Buffalo.
        He is survived by his second wife, Vicki Danielle McDuffee; two sons, Robert Jr. and David; two stepdaughters, Stacey Bankston and Kristi LaRoche; 20 grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.
      