
        Robert Lewis, the owner of the Kentucky Derby winners Silver Charm and Charismatic, died yesterday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his son Jeff, who added that Lewis had been in failing health.
        Lewis, who owned a beer distributorship in Southern California, had been a horse racing fan since his youth and recalled attending Santa Anita in Arcadia, Calif., when the track opened in 1934.
        He owned a small stable until he changed course in 1990 and started to develop one of the nation's most powerful racing operations. Lewis enjoyed almost instant success. By the mid-90's, his green-and-gold silks, the colors of his alma mater, the University of Oregon, were regularly seen in winner's circles across the nation.
        He would go on to campaign 50 horses that won stakes races. Chief among them were his two Kentucky Derby winners.
        Silver Charm won the 1997 Derby and the Preakness before his Triple Crown bid ended at the Belmont Stakes. Two years later, Charismatic won the Derby as a 31-1 underdog. He, too, captured the Preakness before finishing third at the Belmont Stakes. He sustained a career-ending injury at the Belmont and never raced again. Charismatic and Silver Charm are among the six champions Lewis owned.
        ''We lost a giant,'' said Bob Baffert, the trainer of Silver Charm. ''He was just the nicest man. He's the only guy I know who won every big race and people still rooted for him. That tells it all right there. Believe me, he will be missed by many. This is just the saddest day.''
        Lewis's gregarious nature made him many friends in racing, a sport he loved and was constantly promoting. In 1997, Lewis and his wife, Beverly, received an Eclipse Award of merit from the racing industry for their support and commitment to the industry.
        ''I'm sure you've heard the word ambassador a lot today,'' said Nick Nicholson, the president of Keeneland Race Course. ''That's the way he represented the sport in public; he was a great sportsman and handled victory and defeat with equal style and class. But I also had the privilege of seeing the leadership he gave to our industry in private, when the cameras were not on.''
        Lewis is survived by his wife and the couple's three children, Jeff, Jim and Nancy Lewis Francois.
      