
        Roy Chapman, the owner and breeder of Smarty Jones, the 2004 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes champion, died yesterday at his home in Doylestown, Pa. He was 79.
        Chapman died after a long battle with emphysema, according to his business associate Anthony Tigano, who announced his death.
        Chapman was a relative unknown in horse racing circles when Smarty Jones emerged as a serious Kentucky Derby candidate. A Philadelphia-area car dealer, Chapman became involved in the sport in the 1980's but enjoyed only modest success until Smarty Jones came along.
        Not only did Smarty Jones possess talent, but he also entered the Derby with a background that captured the public's imagination.
        Shortly after the horse's birth, Chapman's trainer, Robert Camac, was killed. John Servis took over the Chapman stable, only to have Smarty Jones sustain a serious and freakish accident in the starting gate before his first race. Once Smarty Jones started racing, he was considered an underdog because he had come from Philadelphia Park, a minor league track in Bensalem, Pa.
        Chapman was also a major part of the story. He was already quite ill by the time Smarty Jones won the Kentucky Derby. He used a wheelchair and often needed the assistance of an oxygen tank. He won many admirers with his ability to put his illness aside and enjoy and participate in Smarty Jones's run.
        ''We had a great ride,'' Servis said. ''He was a really great guy to train for.''
        After winning the Preakness, Smarty Jones was poised to become the first horse to capture the Triple Crown since 1978. But, at the Belmont Stakes, he experienced what would be his lone career defeat when he was beaten by Birdstone.
        Afterward, Smarty Jones sustained a mild injury and never raced again. He is a stallion at Three Chimneys Farm in Midway, Ky. His first foals were born earlier this year and are expected to race in 2008.
        Chapman's final starter, a 4-year-old filly named Last Toots, won at Oaklawn Park in Hot Springs, Ark. on Feb. 9.
        Chapman was the chairman of the Chapman Auto Group, which consists of nine car dealerships in the Philadelphia area.
        ''Chappy has been the cornerstone of this organization for the past 33 years, and his legacy will live on for generations to come,'' Tigano, the group's chief financial officer, said.
        Chapman is survived by his wife, Patricia; a sister; three children; two stepchildren; and seven grandchildren.
      