
        Eli J. Segal, who was the chief of staff in Gov. Bill Clinton's victorious campaign for president in 1992 and who went on to become an assistant in the Clinton White House, died Monday at his home in Boston. Mr. Segal, who headed the Clinton administration's AmeriCorps and Welfare-to-Work initiatives, was 63.
        The cause was mesothelioma, an asbestos-related form of cancer, his family said in announcing the death.
        Mr. Segal, a businessman and Democratic Party stalwart, campaigned for several Democrats who ran for president, including Senator Eugene J. McCarthy in 1968 and Gen. Wesley K. Clark in 2004. But his most successful engagement was as chief of staff in Mr. Clinton's general election campaign against the incumbent, President George Bush.
        Mr. Segal joined the new administration as an assistant to the president, serving to 1996. In that post he was involved in legislation that created AmeriCorps, a network of local, state and national volunteer programs that works with nonprofit and public agencies to fill gaps in areas like education, health, public safety and the environment.
        Last year the corps sent thousands of volunteers to back up emergency teams after Hurricane Katrina.
        Mr. Segal became the corps' first executive director in October 1993.
        He returned to private business in 1996, but President Clinton enlisted him the next year to help carry out significant changes in the welfare system. Mr. Clinton announced a Welfare to Work Partnership and had Mr. Segal put it in place.
        Before leaving office in January 2001, Mr. Clinton awarded Mr. Segal the Presidential Citizens Medal. He said that under Mr. Segal's guidance, the welfare partnership had ''enlisted, in the space of about three years, more than 20,000 businesses in hiring more than one million people from the welfare rolls.''
        The program's first commitments came from large corporations like Sprint, Burger King and Monsanto. The current President Bush has continued the program, renaming it Business Interface.
        Mr. Clinton and his wife, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who had visited Mr. Segal in the hospital, said in a statement on Monday, ''Eli's leadership was critical in the 1992 election victory.''
        Eli Jay Segal was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Brandeis University in 1964 and the University of Michigan Law School in 1967. He began his 37 years of forays into politics as an intern on the staff of Representative Don Edwards of California and as a member of Senator McCarthy's team pursuing the Democratic nomination in 1968.
        By 1972 he was in Senator George McGovern's inner circle during Mr. McGovern's unsuccessful bid to unseat President Richard M. Nixon. As deputy campaign chairman, Mr. Segal played a central role in helping Mr. McGovern win California's crucial Democratic primary.
        In the general election, his team included another young party activist, Bill Clinton, who headed the losing campaign in Texas.
        Mr. Segal started his business career in the early 1970's with a New York maker of yarn and crafts products, the Vogart Crafts Corporation. He later bought the American Publishing Corporation of Watertown, Mass., a toy and puzzles manufacturer, which he sold in the mid-1980's.
        At his death he was on the boards of several companies, including Hasbro and Stonebridge International.
        Mr. Segal is survived by his wife of 40 years, Phyllis Nichamoff Segal; a son, Jonathan, of Needham, Mass.; a daughter, Mora Segal of Washington; a brother, Alan, of Brookline, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      