
        James E. Hinton Jr., a documentary photographer who chronicled the racial and social upheavals of the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
        The cause was metastasized prostate cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Hinton's pictures captured nameless actors in historical events and also those who made them happen.
        He was a producer, director or cameraman -- and sometimes narrator -- for about 70 documentaries, with a wide array of topics, made for television, various organizations and corporate clients from the 1960's into the late 1990's. They ranged from interviews to public events to rap videos and public information videos.
        He also had many photo exhibitions, most recently ''Singular Voices/Voices of Many: Photographs From the Sixties by James Hinton,'' first mounted in early 2000 by the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers; Mr. Hinton became a board member of the museum in 2000. That show of 45 black-and-white prints, along with some mural-size images, covered the cultural and political life of African-Americans, including marches for and against the Vietnam War, demonstrations in Alabama, Mississippi and California, and the ascent of the Black Panthers and the Student Nonviolent Coordination Committee.
        A remarkable photograph of Mahalia Jackson shows the singer with her mouth agape, eyes toward heaven, against a white background. Muhammad Ali is shown with his supporters on the move during his first visit to New York City in 1966.
        Born in Atlantic City, Mr. Hinton was a darkroom technician during his undergraduate years at Howard University in Washington. He served in the Army, and in 1963, while living in Chicago, had his first public showing.
        He made photography his profession after moving to New York in 1965. He shot pictures for large corporate clients as well as for magazines and newspapers, assignments that put him in the thick of the turbulence of the 1960's.
        Some of his photographs were acquired in 1998 by the Library of Congress for its permanent collection. His pictures were also exhibited at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, the Leica Gallery and the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, which also has several dozen of his photographs in its permanent collection.
        He lectured and conducted workshops at various colleges and taught as an adjunct professor at the State University of New York at Purchase.
        Mr. Hinton is survived by his wife of 30 years, Mercedes I. Hinton; two sons, James C. of New Orleans and Malaku of Phoenix; a daughter, Dr. Mercedes S. Hinton of London and Cambridge, Mass.; and a half-sister, Alice Cash of Atlantic City.
      