
        Truman K. Gibson Jr., who fought racial discrimination in the Army in World War II as a high-level adviser in the War Department and later became a powerful pro boxing promoter, died Dec. 23 in Chicago. He was 93.
        His death was announced by Unity Funeral Parlors of Chicago.
        Mr. Gibson, a Chicago lawyer, worked within the federal government to end segregation in the armed forces. He often operated out of public view at a time when other black figures like A. Philip Randolph, the president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, and Walter White, the N.A.A.C.P. leader, were highly visible in civil rights struggles.
        Mr. Gibson was chief adviser on racial affairs to Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson from 1943 to 1945. He sought to persuade the Army to use black troops in combat and investigated complaints from black soldiers facing indignities and sometimes violence during their stateside training.
        ''It was complete, absolute segregation,'' Mr. Gibson told The Columbus Dispatch, in Ohio, in 2002. ''The training facilities were in the South. The attitude was that Southern officers understood 'those people.' White bus drivers in military towns were deputized and armed. That was their approach to handling Southern black soldiers. I tried to put out fires. We were dealing with the killing of black troops. I visited most of the camps and most of the nations where there were black troops.''
        Mr. Gibson sought to enhance opportunities for black soldiers to become officers, at one point conferring with Jackie Robinson, already a well-known athlete and soon to break baseball's color barrier, when he was experiencing problems in obtaining a commission while an enlisted man at Fort Riley, Kan.
        In December 1946, Mr. Gibson was named to President Harry S. Truman's nine-member civilian commission studying the future of universal military training; he was the panel's only black member. In May 1947, when it issued its report, the commission urged an end to segregation in the military. Fourteen months later, Truman issued an executive order that led to desegregation of the armed forces.
        Mr. Gibson returned to private law practice in Chicago after the war. He was the lawyer for the heavyweight champion Joe Louis, and he became an influential figure in boxing as secretary and later president of the International Boxing Club, which promoted important title fights and arranged national television coverage of the sport during the 1950's.
        But legal troubles followed. The boxing club, run by James Norris, Arthur Wirtz and Mr. Gibson, was dissolved after the Supreme Court ruled in 1959 that it had violated antitrust law.
        Two years later, Mr. Gibson and four co-defendants -- among them Frankie Carbo, once described by the New York district attorney's office as ''the underworld czar of boxing'' -- were convicted in federal court of conspiracy and extortion in an effort to siphon off earnings from the welterweight champion Don Jordan. Mr. Gibson was sentenced to five years' probation and fined.
        Truman Kella Gibson Jr., the son of an insurance executive, was born in Atlanta and moved with his family to Columbus, Ohio, as a youngster. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1932 and obtained a degree from its law school in 1935.
        In 1940, he was appointed assistant to William H. Hastie, the newly named civilian adviser to the War Department, on issues involving black troops, and he succeeded Mr. Hastie when he resigned three years later.
        The task was formidable. Civil rights leaders demanded that major strides be made against racial discrimination in the military. But the leadership of the Army would not forsake segregation and believed that blacks were unable or unwilling to be reliable combat troops.
        In the last months of his tenure with the War Department, Mr. Gibson called on the Army to cast aside old prejudices. Writing to John J. McCloy, the assistant secretary of war, in August 1945, Mr. Gibson urged a wide-ranging inquiry into the policy of military segregation.
        The Harry S. Truman Library and Museum in Independence, Mo., honored Mr. Gibson in July 2001 when it marked the 53rd anniversary of Truman's executive order leading to a ban on segregation in the military. The museum cited Mr. Gibson for working ''behind the scenes to end segregation in the armed forces.''
        Mr. Gibson is survived by a daughter, Karen Kelley; two grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild. His wife, Isabelle, died in 2001.
        Mr. Gibson continued to practice law in Chicago until shortly before his death. Last year, in collaboration with Steve Huntley, he wrote his memoir, published by Northwestern University Press. Its title: ''Knocking Down Barriers: My Fight for Black America.''
      