
        Thomas Malcolm Taylor, who managed money for the billionaire Bass brothers of Texas for more than 20 years, died Sunday in a snowmobile accident in the Adirondack region of upstate New York. He was 63.
        Mr. Taylor, known as Tommy, was part of a guided snowmobile tour near Saranac Lake when he became separated from the group, Mr. Taylor's son-in-law, Kevin McDonald, said. Mr. Taylor and his wife, Linda, collided with a minivan at an intersection in Brighton, N.Y., and Mr. Taylor was pronounced dead at the scene, Mr. McDonald said.
        Late yesterday, Mrs. Taylor, who is 57, was in critical condition at Fletcher Allen Health Care in Burlington, Vt., according to a hospital spokeswoman.
        In 2001, Mr. Taylor founded the Taylor Companies of Greenwich, Conn., an investment firm that advised individual and institutional investors on alternative investments like hedge funds.
        Mr. Taylor was working at Kidder Peabody in 1977, when Richard Rainwater, a high school friend, persuaded him to abandon Wall Street to manage money for the Bass brothers, who had made their fortune in oil.
        When Mr. Rainwater left the Bass Brothers in 1986 to start his own firm, Mr. Taylor succeeded him. Mr. Taylor worked for the Basses for 21 years, producing returns of roughly 18 percent during his tenure with them, said Sid Bass, one of the three Bass brothers.
        ''He was quick with numbers and the amount of facts he could hold in his head to the second decimal place was amazing,'' Mr. Bass said.
        In 1999, the Bass brothers and Mr. Taylor went their separate ways, with the family buying out Mr. Taylor's shares of a $700 million hedge fund, BBT Partners.
        Mr. Taylor, who grew up in Fort Worth and whose primary residence was there, graduated from Texas Christian University in 1965.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his parents, Sol and Annette Taylor, of Fort Worth; a daughter, Rhonda, of Greenwich; a son, Jason, of Dallas; and two granddaughters.
      