
        Robert E. Fischer, a New York judge who prosecuted organized crime during the Rockefeller administration and opened the criminal inquiry into the 1971 rebellion at Attica prison, died on Feb. 16 in Binghamton, N.Y., his birthplace. He was 88.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Fischer retired in 1993 as a State Supreme Court justice. At his death he was a partner, with his son, Kelly, in the firm Fischer & Fischer in Binghamton.
        In 1970, he was a judge in Broome County when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller selected him as a deputy attorney general, in charge of a newly formed statewide task force. Its mandate was to investigate and prosecute organized crime operating in more than one county.
        In September 1971, Mr. Rockefeller called upon Mr. Fischer to conduct a broad investigation into criminal conduct before, during and after the uprising that month at the Attica Correctional Facility, in which 32 inmates and 11 prison employees died.
        Mr. Fischer, as a special prosecutor, oversaw the criminal part of the inquiry and the first prosecutions that grew out of it. Another, more comprehensive study, conducted by the New York State Special Commission on Attica, concluded in 1972 that the riot had been spontaneous, driven by prison conditions, and that the governor should have gone to the prison near Buffalo before ordering an armed assault on the rebellious inmates, in which some of their hostages were also killed.
        At the time of its findings, the commission and Mr. Fischer's investigators were openly skirmishing in their parallel but rival investigations, specifically over subpoenaed records of confidential interviews conducted by commission staff members. The state attorney general, Louis J. Lefkowitz, eventually stepped in to mediate between Mr. Fischer and the head of the commission, Dean Robert B. McKay of New York University School of Law.
        Mr. Fischer continued in his dual role as head of the Attica investigation and head of the state's Organized Crime Task Force until the end of 1973, when he was elected a State Supreme Court justice.
        The Attica inquiry eventually led to the indictment of 62 inmates, eight of whom were convicted; the indictment of a single corrections officer on charges of reckless endangerment was later dismissed. Last year, a $12 million state settlement was reached with the families of the 11 hostages killed during the Attica violence and the 38 who survived. Ten of the 11 were killed by shots from the officers who retook the prison; the 11th was beaten to death by inmates.
        Robert Eugene Fischer studied at Cornell, majoring in government, and graduated in 1940 with a broken nose from boxing and an injured leg as a football tackle. He received his law degree from Cornell in 1942 before enlisting in the Navy.
        Despite his leg injury, he trained as a frogman and did underwater demolition and reconnaissance in the Pacific in preparation for island assaults. He returned home with a Silver Star as a lieutenant junior grade.
        Mr. Fischer entered private practice with an older brother. He was elected district attorney for Broome County and investigated municipal corruption in Utica. In 1965, Governor Rockefeller asked him to supersede the district attorney of Erie County to investigate corruption in Buffalo.
        The governor appointed him a Broome County judge in 1967; he was elected to a 10-year term on the bench the next year.
        Mr. Fischer's wife, Betty R. Fischer, died last year. In addition to their son, Kelly E., of Vestal, N.Y., he is survived by their daughter, Kimberly Fischer-Geiger of Old Forge, N.Y.; two daughters from his previous marriage, Diane F. Stevens of Brooklyn, and Laurie F. Heflin of Madison, Conn.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His first marriage, to Suzanne H. Fischer of Madison, ended in divorce.
      