
        Dennis Weaver, whose portrayal of Deputy Chester Goode in the classic television western ''Gunsmoke'' made him the favorite sidekick of the early television era, died on Friday at his home in Ridgway, Colo. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said Julian Myers, his publicist.
        The lanky Mr. Weaver became famous for his limping deputy with a drawl, the buddy of Marshal Matt Dillon, a portrayal for which he won an Emmy in 1959. But he starred in nine television series. From 1955 to 1964, he was on ''Gunsmoke,'' the longest-running prime-time drama series on television. He also starred in ''Gentle Ben,'' from 1967 to 1969, playing Tom Wedloe, an Everglades ranger who adopts a black bear as a pet.
        He went from nerd to sex symbol in ''McCloud,'' playing Sam McCloud, a New Mexico deputy marshal on loan to the New York City police, who sometimes rode his horse through the city streets. ''McCloud,'' which was broadcast from 1970 to 1977, earned him two Emmy nominations.
        Mr. Weaver also had leading roles in 40 motion pictures, including Orson Welles's 1958 film ''Touch of Evil,'' and the 1971 classic ''Duel,'' directed by a young Steven Spielberg, made for television but released theatrically in Europe. In it he played the prey of a murderous truck, with an unseen driver.
        After growing up on a Missouri farm, Mr. Weaver served as a Naval Air Corps pilot, and he graduated with a degree in fine arts in theater from the University of Oklahoma. In 1948, he was a decathlon finalist in the United States Olympic trials.
        He was in his 20's when he made his Broadway debut in ''Come Back, Little Sheba,'' which led to his signing a contract with Universal Studios and going to Hollywood. He did not hit it big in Hollywood, and during his struggle to make a living as an actor his jobs included selling pantyhose and delivering flowers. After playing a series of character actors, often in westerns, he landed the role of Chester Goode in ''Gunsmoke.''
        Mr. Weaver's long career ranged beyond acting. He released several country music albums and had a one-man show in which he played 19 different Shakespearean characters. At one time he had a comedy/variety stage show with his wife, Gerry, and son Rusty. He directed several episodes of various television shows, wrote poetry, and in 2001 his autobiography, ''All the World's a Stage,'' was published.
        In 1982, with his wife and some friends, he founded an organization called Love Is Feeding Everyone, which fed more than 100,000 people in Los Angeles each week. In 1993, he and his wife founded a nonprofit group called the Institute of Ecolonomics -- a word Mr. Weaver coined from combining ecology and economics -- to find solutions to environmental problems. In 2003 the institute created a ''Drive to Survive'' campaign in which Mr. Weaver led a fleet of alterative-fuel vehicles on a cross-country tour to Washington to raise awareness about reducing the country's dependence on oil.
        Since 1990, Mr. Weaver and his wife had lived in an earthship: an almost 10,000-square-foot, solar-powered home in Ridgway constructed from about 3,000 recycled tires and 300,000 tin and aluminum cans.
        From 1973 to 1975, Mr. Weaver was president of the Screen Actors Guild. In 1986 he received his star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. For the last nine years he had been the host of Starz Entertainment's ''Westerns'' channel. His last role was as Henry Ritter, a grandfather in ''Wildfire,'' a dramatic series on the ABC Family Channel.
        Besides his wife, Gerry, and son Rusty, Mr. Weaver is survived by his sons Rick and Rob and three grandchildren.
      