
        The Rev. Earl Stallings, a prominent Baptist pastor in Birmingham, Ala., who in 1963 risked the rejection of his own white congregation, and worse, by seating African-American worshipers among them at his Easter service and urging reconciliation amid the city's erupting racial antagonisms, died on Feb. 23 in retirement in Lakeland, Fla. He was 89.
        His death was announced on the Web site of The Associated Baptist Press.
        Mr. Stallings was pastor of the First Baptist Church when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote his impassioned ''Letter From Birmingham Jail,'' in which he presented his view on civil disobedience to unjust laws. Dr. King also appealed to white members of the clergy to support the civil rights movement and chastised some white moderates as being ''more devoted to 'order' than to justice.'' He mentioned Mr. Stallings by name as one of the few who took the side of justice.
        As the racially segregated city seemed bound for increasingly rancorous protest marches, arrests and street clashes, Mr. Stallings joined a handful of other locally well-known white clergymen in calling for a disengagement. The group included the pastor of the city's First Presbyterian Church, a rabbi and Roman Catholic, Methodist and Episcopal bishops.
        They called themselves the Reconciliation Committee and called for a halt to the violence because, they declared, it was counterproductive. It was their open letter, dated on Good Friday, April 12, 1963, that drew Dr. King's response from jail, where he had been sent for leading a protest against segregation in the city.
        Dr. King's long letter, which was not widely circulated in full at the time, rebuked white moderates who wanted African-Americans to seek redress solely through the courts and negotiations with local leaders, not in the streets. Dated April 16 and addressed to ''My Dear Fellow Clergymen,'' it declared his disappointment with their counsel and said he was ''compelled to carry the gospel of freedom'' to Birmingham ''because injustice is here.''
        But Dr. King approvingly singled out Mr. Stallings by name. He wrote that he was ''not unmindful'' of the positive stands each member of the committee had taken and added, ''I commend you, Reverend Stallings, for your Christian stand on this past Sunday, in welcoming Negroes to your worship service on a nonsegregated basis.''
        For Mr. Stallings, the outcome was antagonism from both civil rights activists and the partisans of segregation, an issue that split the First Baptist congregation after his departure. Mr. Stallings became pastor of the First Baptist Church of Marietta, Ga., in 1965 and remained there for 11 years. He spent the remainder of his pastorate working in senior adult ministries for the Arizona Baptist Convention.
        Earl Stallings, who was born in Durham, N.C., graduated from Carson-Newman College in Tennessee and received a master's degree in theology at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth.
        Mr. Stallings's survivors include a son, James, of Wauchula, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      