
        Harold Ostroff, a builder responsible for some of New York's largest nonprofit cooperative housing complexes, including Co-Op City in the Bronx, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan.
        He was 82 and died after a long illness, said Madelon Braun, his daughter.
        Mr. Ostroff grew up in one of the first nonprofit cooperatives in the nation, the Amalgamated Houses near Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, and in the decades after World War II, he was instrumental in developing affordable housing for more than 100,000 New Yorkers.
        Most of the construction occurred during the 1960's, when Mr. Ostroff was an executive vice president of the United Housing Foundation, a federation of nonprofit organizations that combined loans from labor unions with government grants and tax breaks to build hulking high-rise apartments throughout the city for middle-income workers who were then moving to the suburbs in droves.
        The apartments in those complexes -- including Co-Op City, Penn South in Chelsea, Rochdale Village in Queens and Kingsview Homes in Brooklyn -- were kept affordable by restricting what co-op members could earn from the sale of their property. In some cases, the new buildings were the first to integrate a neighborhood; in others instances, especially with Co-op City and its 50,000 tenants, they created entire neighborhoods of their own.
        ''Harold's idea of a co-op was people working together for mutual benefit,'' said Harvey Sigelbaum, a friend for more than 50 years. ''It was a way to deal with landlords -- to pool your resources and be your own landlord so you could keep it affordable.''
        At times, Mr. Ostroff's passion for housing made him a maverick; in 1967, he proposed relocating some of the city's cemeteries, filling in the Harlem River and lopping off an eight-block-long slice of Central Park's northern end to make room for new apartments.
        Tenants in some of the complexes later complained of poor management, and a newer class of urban planners found the developments cold and impersonal, and said they undermined older neighborhoods. But Mr. Ostroff never lost faith, continuing to believe that the city could benefit from large tracts of middle-income cooperatives.
        ''He never stopped feeling that people had to own some equity in where they lived,'' Ms. Braun said.
        Mr. Ostroff, a lifelong activist for Jewish causes, retired from housing in the late 1970's and became general manager of The Forward newspaper. He raised enough money to save from extinction the Yiddish edition of the newspaper, which was a daily until 1983, and he also started publishing English and Russian editions.
        Mr. Ostroff is survived by his daughter Ms. Braun; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. His wife, Frieda Ostroff, died in 1997; his daughter Sandra Ostroff died in 1998.
      