
        Dr. Seymour Furman, a cardiologist who devised a way to insert pacemakers into patients without performing surgery, died on Feb. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. He was 74.
        The cause of death was complications of cardiovascular disease, his son Neil Furman said.
        Along with two colleagues, Dr. Furman made history on July 16, 1958, at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx when he threaded plastic-coated wires connected to an electrode through the veins of a patient's heart, eliminating the need to cut the chest open.
        That changed the way pacemakers are implanted, a procedure performed hundreds of thousands of times since then. Once regarded as a biotechnological miracle, the pacemaker -- a device that stimulates a regular heartbeat through electrical impulses -- is today a routine aid to cardiac health.
        An article in the Journal of Interventional Cardiac Electrophysiology said of Dr. Furman 43 years after the pioneering procedure, ''His contributions are so numerous that many are now taken for granted and their origin often forgotten.''
        According to Dr. John D. Fisher, the director of the arrhythmia service at Montefiore and also a colleague and onetime student of Dr. Furman's, the first pacemaker, developed in 1929, was crank-operated. It was not until the 1950's that the technology was developed to place the electrode directly on the surface of the heart, a procedure usually reserved for those having open-heart surgery.
        When Dr. Furman developed his noninvasive procedure, the wire was inserted just below the skin into a vein near the elbow. But Dr. Doris J. W. Escher, professor emeritus at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and one of Dr. Furman's collaborators, recalled that arm movements tended to make this method unstable, so doctors started to use the base of the neck instead. .
        Dr. Fisher, who is also a professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College, said that another major contribution came in 1964. . ''The batteries used to power pacemakers would only last maybe a year and a half,'' Dr. Fisher said, ''and he did a series of experiments showing how the design of the electrode could be used to stimulate the heart with lower energy so the batteries would last longer.''
        Three years later, working with a bioengineeer, Bryan Parker, Dr. Furman developed a way to check pacemakers over the telephone so that patients would not have to visit their physicians as often.
        He chose not to patent it so that manufacturers would be motivated to keep prices competitive.
        According to Dr. Fisher, Dr. Furman also focused attention on the diagnosis and treatment of heart rhythm disturbances. ''Before the 1970's, most cardiologists were interested in heart attacks and vessel-clogging, but if you had a rhythm disturbance they threw their hands up in despair,'' he said.
        With that in mind, Dr. Furman and three collaborators founded the North American Society for Pacing and Electrophysiology, the first professional organization to bring together physicians, engineers and others working in the field of heart rhythm disturbances. He also was the first editor of PACE, its journal. The organization's name was later shortened to the Heart Rhythm Society.
        Seymour Furman was born in the Bronx in 1931, the son of Joseph Furman and Bertha Kellert Furman, both of whom worked in the garment industry. He graduated from Washington Square College of New York University, received his M.D. degree from the Downstate Medical Center College of Medicine and was trained as a thoracic surgeon at the Baylor College of Medicine. His wife, Evelyn Katz Furman, died in 2002. He is survived by three sons, Neil, Bruce and Gary.
        Despite his surgical background, ''he became so interested in pacemakers that he spent the largest portion of his career in cardiology, which is part of medicine, not surgery,'' Dr. Fisher said. ''He was a professor of both surgery and medicine, which was unusual.''
        ''If you did a family tree of all the people implanting pacemakers, most of them can trace their roots back to him,'' he added. ''In the end, it was Furman who started it off.''
      