
        Arnold A. Rogow, an author and political scientist who trained as a psychoanalyst to gain insight into historical figures like Alexander Hamilton, died on Feb. 14 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his daughter Jeanne Rogow said.
        Mr. Rogow, a professor at City College of New York, argued in his book ''A Fatal Friendship: Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr'' (Hill and Wang, 1998) that Hamilton became obsessed with his hatred of Burr and that this obsession ultimately prompted him to force the situation that led to his death in their duel. Hamilton, more than Burr, was thus responsible for Hamilton's death, Mr. Rogow argued.
        He arrived at his conclusion by examining Hamilton's personal letters. So far as is known, Burr never openly criticized Hamilton.
        Mr. Rogow used his psychoanalytic knowledge to diagnose Hamilton as a manic depressive who, in effect, committed suicide by agreeing to fight a duel with Burr. Mr. Rogow argued that Hamilton was pulled down by recurring illnesses and was depressed by Washington's unexpected death in 1799.
        Hamilton's decision not to fire, as well as his serenity in the days before the duel, contributed to Mr. Rogow's diagnosis.
        Some critics suggested that Mr. Rogow's psychological approach to biography was limited. Fred Anderson, a historian who reviewed ''A Fatal Friendship'' in The Los Angeles Times, said Mr. Rogow relied on motives that can ''only be inferred from the elliptical and fragmentary writings of the participants.''
        Suggesting that Mr. Rogow's narrative became lost in the ''psychosexual wilderness,'' Mr. Anderson wrote, ''The result is a narrative so thick with ifs and maybes that even Rogow loses his way.''
        Mr. Rogow wrote or edited a dozen or so other books in which he applied his psychoanalytic expertise, including biographies of James V. Forrestal, who was the first secretary of defense when he committed suicide, and Thomas Hobbes, the political philosopher.
        Arnold Austin Rogow was born in Harrisburg, Pa., on Aug. 10, 1924. His father died when he was 5 and his mother when he was 12. He sought refuge in books, his daughter said.
        His studies at the University of Wisconsin were disrupted by his joining the Army as an infantryman in World War II. He served in the Battle of the Bulge, earned a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star and made friends with Gertrude Stein in Paris.
        He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1947 and earned his Ph.D. in political science from Princeton in 1953. He then taught at the University of Iowa and Stanford before coming to City College in 1966.
        While teaching political science, he became qualified as a psychoanalyst at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. As part of his training, he underwent analysis himself and later became a practicing psychotherapist in addition to teaching and writing.
        In an interview with The New York Post in 1970, Mr. Rogow explained the dynamic between psychiatry and politics. ''Sick societies producing sick people who produce sick politics,'' he said. ''They all feed on each other.''
        Mr. Rogow is survived by his companion, Martha Moraes; his daughters, Jeanne, of Whiting, Vt., and Jennifer Rogow Wilson, of Jackson, Miss.; and three grandchildren.
        In 1975, Mr. Rogow essentially psychoanalyzed the United States in his book ''The Dying of the Light: A Searching Look at America Today.'' He saw a violent, confused, unfair country.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Richard Goodwin wrote, ''Mr. Rogow confronts problems which are darkly fundamental and, therefore, beyond the reach of contemporary political discourse.''
      