
        Rodney Strong, who left behind a career as a professional dancer to pioneer the mass production of fine wines in Sonoma County, died Sunday in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said Michele Prinz, a spokeswoman for Rodney Strong Vineyards in Healdsburg.
        Mr. Strong was best known for Rodney Strong Vineyards, which, from its beginnings in the 1960's, was a leader in transforming Sonoma County's reputation from that of rustic farmland as the area became one of the finest wine regions in the country. He focused mostly on French varietals like cabernet sauvignon, chardonnay and merlot, though he made a well-regarded zinfandel, too, and the wines were generally considered to be excellent values.
        Mr. Strong was one of the first to plant extensive vineyards in prime Sonoma locations at a time when apples and prunes were still the leading crops, and he was an early advocate of making wines from single vineyards rather than blending grapes from many sources. He eventually owned thousands of acres in Sonoma and Mendocino Counties.
        Though Rodney Strong Vineyards was sold in 1989, he stayed on as a consultant until retiring in 1995.
        Rodney Strong was born in Camas, Wash., near Portland, Ore. He trained at the School of American Ballet in New York and spent four years dancing in Paris, where he developed a taste for wine. By the late 1950's, with his dance career winding down, he had decided to become a winemaker. In 1959, he and his wife, Charlotte, with whom he had danced on Broadway, moved to Tiburon in Marin County. There, he established Tiburon Vintners, which bought bulk wine, bottled it and sold it to tourists.
        ''I knew I couldn't be an old dancer, but I could be an old winemaker,'' he said often over the years.
        In 1962, he bought Windsor Vineyards in northern Sonoma County. It was later renamed Sonoma Vineyards and then finally Rodney Strong Vineyards.
        Some of his investors in Windsor also had an interest in Chalone Vineyard, on a hillside in the Gavilan Mountains near Pinnacles National Monument in Monterey County. When Philip Togni, who was making the Chalone wines, departed, Mr. Strong was asked to take over.
        ''I leased Chalone,'' Mr. Strong said in a 1998 interview with The New York Times, ''and for three years my wife and I drove down there every weekend to work the vineyard, four and a half hours each way. I'd take some of my students -- I was also teaching winemaking at Sonoma State College -- and any hippies we could find along the way.''
        Among those he trained was Richard Graff, the son of one of his backers at Windsor. Mr. Graff eventually bought Chalone Vineyard himself.
        Mr. Strong had his financial ups and downs in the business, and he eventually lost control of Rodney Strong Vineyards. It was sold in 1989 to the family of Tom Klein, the current proprietor.
        Charlotte Strong died in 2003. There are no immediate survivors.
      