
        Joseph Howard Gardner, a Manhattan real estate developer who had a knack for identifying emerging neighborhoods and transforming them into residential magnets by converting rundown buildings, died on March 1 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 78.
        The cause was melanoma, his daughter, Danielle Gardner, said.
        Mr. Gardner ventured into neighborhoods like Chelsea, TriBeCa and the Flatiron district in the 1970's and 80's before it was fashionable to do so. He became known for his early and -- unusual for that time -- legal conversions of downtown industrial lofts into rambling apartments.
        He started as an accountant in 1952 and became a senior partner in the accounting firm of Gardner, Waschler & Adelman, where he worked until 1985. He went into real estate in 1968 at the urging of his wife, Charlotte.
        ''He had managed to save a tiny bit of money, and my mother said, 'Go and buy something,' '' his daughter said. ''So he built an empire out of nothing.''
        His first venture was a five-story S.R.O. at 316 West 82nd Street, which he bought for about $87,000 and reconfigured into a rental apartment building. It later became a co-op.
        He joined forces on that project with Peter Weissman, an architect who became his partner in P & J Realty Management. The two had met on Fire Island, where they had both spent summers. Mr. Gardner recruited Mr. Weissman to design a second story for his house there, but the builder they wanted to use refused to give them an estimate.
        ''So Joe said: 'Let's not do it. I have a better idea,'' Mr. Weissman said. ''He had just gone to contract to buy 316 West 82nd Street and suggested, instead of doing the second floor, that I invest in that building with him. Then we decided to buy another building, and I quit my job as an architect with an engineering firm.''
        Those two buildings were the only uptown properties in Mr. Gardner's portfolio. He set his sights on Lower Manhattan and Midtown West; with various partners, he developed 22 projects with a total of 954 apartments and some retail operations.
        ''He had a real sense for finding areas in Manhattan that he felt people would live in and was one of very few legal developers of converted housing,'' said Suzanne O'Keefe, who as an urban designer with the Department of City Planning helped create the city's loft policy.
        One large project of Mr. Gardner's -- a 240,000-square-foot commercial office building at 100-104 Fifth Avenue in the Flatiron district, between 15th and 16th Streets -- became a magnet for advertising and publishing companies. ''It was a gutsy move to invest and buy that building in what was then a quasi-industrial neighborhood and certainly not a slam dunk,'' said Barry M. Gosin, chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank, the real estate service firm. ''Now the Mesa Grill is there.''
        Mr. Gardner was born on Sept. 11, 1927, the son of David and Clara Goldstein. As a youth he did finances and deliveries for his mother's shop, Clara's Dresses at Madison Avenue and 72nd Street. He graduated from New York University.
        Besides his wife and daughter, he is survived by a sister, Florence Strauss of Tamarac, Fla., and two grandchildren.
        His son, Douglas B. Gardner, was his partner for about 10 years, moving on to become executive managing director at Cantor Fitzgerald. He died in the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.
      