
        Willy Frank, a tireless promoter of New York wines who transformed Dr. Konstantin Frank Vinifera Wine Cellars into one of the Finger Lakes' best known and most respected wine producers, died on Tuesday in Naples, Fla., where he had gone on a business trip. He was 80 .
        The cause was a stroke, said his son, Frederick Frank, president of the winery.
        Willy Frank's father, Dr. Konstantin Frank, a World War II refugee from Ukraine, started Vinifera Wine Cellars in the late 1950's, intent on demonstrating that the great grapes of Europe could flourish in New York State as well. Back then, New York winemakers focused on native grapes and French-American hybrids, which could withstand the cold climate and the myriad afflictions that killed European grapes, but produced somewhat rustic wines. Dr. Frank, a trained viticulturist who had managed state vineyards in Ukraine, demonstrated that the European vinifera grapes could flourish if managed properly. In vineyards that sloped upward from Keuka Lake and Seneca Lake, he planted 60 grape varieties. His first vintage was in 1962.
        In the 1970's, Willy Frank was in the photographic equipment business in New York City and helped his father on weekends. But father and son differed on how the winery should be run, Frederick Frank said.
        ''Dr. Frank ran it as if it were an experimental station; he was all about science,'' Mr. Frank said. ''Willy was a businessman. They would often argue.''
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Frank succumbed to the lure of the wine business and established Chateau Frank next to his father's winery. There, he began to produce sparkling wines, which his father did not make. When Dr. Frank's health failed, Willy Frank took over the management of Vinifera Wine Cellars and began instituting broad changes. He sold off thousands of gallons of wines that had been aging for years in the cellars. He hired a young winemaker and bought barrels made of French oak, instead of the American oak his father had patriotically preferred.
        ''Some of the changes upset Papa very much,'' he conceded in a New York Times interview after Dr. Frank died in 1985.
        In an effort to make the winery profitable, he developed a distribution and sales network and invested in new equipment. In the 1980's, when New York wine was often sneered at, he relentlessly talked up the virtues of the Finger Lakes wines.
        ''We called it missionary work, because it was so challenging,'' Frederick Frank said. Today, Dr. Konstantin Frank wines are sold in 30 states.
        One thing Willy Frank did not change was his father's vineyards, other than to focus on the grapes that grew best. Dr. Konstantin Frank now makes some of the best rieslings in the United States, along with pinot noir, cabernet franc, chardonnay and a less-expensive line of wines under the Salmon Run label. It also produces small quantities of some special wines, like rkatsiteli, a fresh, lively, complex white wine made from a grape native to the Caucasus.
        Willibald Konstantin Frank was born in 1925 in Odessa, Ukraine, where his father taught viticulture at the university. After World War II, his family fled the Soviet Union, and Willy Frank studied business at the University of Nuremburg. In 1951, the family came to New York, where Dr. Frank, who knew no English, washed dishes at a Horn & Hardart, while Willy became an elevator operator. Eventually, Dr. Frank and his wife, Eugenie, moved upstate.
        Willy Frank, who had married in 1956, stayed in New York. In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Margrit, and a daughter, Barbara Guior of Summit, N.J.; two sisters, Hilda Volz of Bath, N.Y., and Lena Schelling of Catskill, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
        Frederick Frank joined his father at the family winery in 1993 after learning his craft by working for several years at Banfi Vintners on Long Island.
        ''He had a European saying,'' Frederick Frank recalled. ''He wanted me to learn to shave on another man's beard.''
      