
        Milton Katims, an American conductor and noted violist who played under Toscanini and led the Seattle Symphony for more than two decades, died on Monday in Shoreline, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. He was 96.
        The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the Seattle Symphony said.
        As a violist, Mr. Katims had a career of unusual prominence. In addition to spending 11 years performing under Toscanini's baton in the NBC Symphony Orchestra, he often joined the Budapest String Quartet as a guest artist and made several recordings with that group. He gave the first performance of Morton Gould's Viola Concerto in 1952 and participated in Pablo Casals's elite Prades Festival, where he recorded a well-known, penetrating version of Schubert's C Major String Quintet with Casals, Isaac Stern, Alexander Schneider and Paul Tortelier.
        Born in Brooklyn to Austro-Hungarian and Russian parents, Mr. Katims began playing violin but switched to viola after completing his undergraduate study. From early on, he also had an interest in conducting. He reportedly first met Toscanini at the age of 7 when he asked the imposing maestro for an autograph after a concert.
        Mr. Katims was one of very few committed violists who successfully made the transition to a conducting career. He did so after gaining formative experience leading his own colleagues as assistant conductor of the NBC Orchestra. In 1954, Mr. Katims accepted a post as music director of the Seattle Symphony, moving west with his wife, the cellist Virginia Peterson Katims, and their two children.
        He held the Seattle post for more than two decades and was credited with raising the orchestra's national profile, deepening its ties to the community and leading the campaign to renovate the Seattle Civic Auditorium, later known as the Opera House and now as McCaw Hall. In 1976, after clashing with the orchestra's board, Mr. Katims moved with his family to Texas and served for eight years as artistic director of the School of Music at the University of Houston.
        Mr. Katims eventually returned to Seattle. In 2004, he and his wife wrote a memoir, ''The Pleasure Was Ours.'' In addition to Ms. Katims, he is survived by a brother, Seymour, of Honolulu; a son, Peter, of Byron Bay, Australia; a daughter, Pamela Katims Steele of Seattle; and two grandchildren.
        Beyond his teaching in Houston and earlier at the Juilliard School, Mr. Katims exerted a more subtle influence on younger generations of players through the many scores he edited for the publisher International Music. By playing from those editions, countless viola students, perhaps unwittingly, have learned his fingerings and bowings for seminal works in the repertory.
        Mr. Katims also carried his viola experience into his conducting career. ''Wielding the baton,'' he wrote in The New York Times in 1950, ''you may deceive the undiscerning listener, but you cannot mislead the men playing for you. Since I work on both sides of the podium, I know that winning the players' respect and approval is of the utmost importance.''
      