
        Bernie Geoffrion, the Montreal Canadiens' Hall of Fame wing who popularized the slap shot, a weapon that changed the face of hockey and brought him the enduring nickname Boom Boom, died Saturday in Atlanta. He was 75.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said the Canadiens, who retired Geoffrion's number at the Bell Center in Montreal on Saturday night in a previously scheduled ceremony. Geoffrion's wife, Marlene, who flew from Atlanta for the ceremony, joined with their three children in hoisting a banner bearing his No. 5. It flies alongside the retired No. 7 of Mrs. Geoffrion's father, the Hall of Famer Howie Morenz.
        Geoffrion starred on six Stanley Cup championship teams in his 14 seasons with the Canadiens, then played two seasons with the Rangers. He scored 393 regular-season goals and won the National Hockey League scoring title twice. He later coached the Rangers, the Atlanta Flames and the Canadiens. He was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1972.
        Geoffrion became known as Boom Boom while playing junior hockey, a tribute to the sound of his slap shot when it left his stick, unleashed from a windup, and caromed off the boards. ''When I slapped it, I thought it was the greatest thing ever,'' he told The New York Times in 1988.
        Emile Francis, the Rangers' coach and general manager when Geoffrion played for them, recalled in that article how the high-velocity slap shot ''was an enormous addition to the player's arsenal.'' The slap shot was seldom used before Geoffrion's arrival and was previously overshadowed by the wrist shot.
        ''Without a doubt it turned some 20-goal scorers into 50-goal scorers,'' Francis said.
        At Saturday's tribute, Dollard St. Laurent, a longtime defenseman and teammate of Geoffrion's, told The Montreal Gazette: ''He changed the game with the slap shot. Goalies were afraid to face him. He's the reason why goalies started wearing masks.''
        Geoffrion played on the Canadiens teams that captivated French-speaking Canada at the old Forum. Those teams included Maurice and Henri Richard, Jean Beliveau and Dickie Moore at forward; Doug Harvey and Tom Johnson on defense; and Jacques Plante in goal. All are in the Hall of Fame. His Canadiens, known as the Flying Frenchmen, won the Stanley Cup in 1953, then captured a record five in a row, from 1956 to 1960.
        Geoffrion, a Montreal native, made his debut for the Canadiens during the 1950-51 season. He scored 30 goals the next season, when he was named rookie of the year.
        He won his first scoring title in 1954-55, when he had 38 goals and 37 assists in a 70-game season, capturing the championship by a single point over Maurice Richard, known as the Rocket. Richard was suspended by the league for the last three games of the regular season and for the playoffs as a result of a stick-swinging brawl. When Geoffrion won the scoring crown, he was booed by the fans, angry that Richard, their hero, had been deprived of the title.
        Geoffrion captured the scoring championship again in 1960-61, when he had 50 goals, equaling the league record set by Richard in 1944-45. He was named the league's most valuable player that season.
        He retired from the Canadiens in 1964, coached in the minors for two seasons, then returned to the ice in 1966 for two seasons with the Rangers, scoring the final 22 goals of his career. In addition to his 393 career goals, he had 429 assists.
        He coached the Rangers during the first half of the 1968-69 season, coached the expansion Flames from 1972 to 1975, then became the Canadiens' coach in 1979. But he chafed at management directives in Montreal, lost 15 pounds because of stress and quit after 30 games.
        He retired to the Atlanta suburbs and became a familiar figure on television, doing commercials for Miller Lite beer.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by sons Danny, who played for him when he coached the Canadiens, and Robert; his daughter, Linda; and many grandchildren.
        Reflecting on how he became Boom Boom, Geoffrion once told an interviewer for the Hockey Hall of Fame that he began developing his slap shot when he was 9 or 10, practicing behind his neighborhood church.
        ''I realized that nicknames are always recognized if you produce,'' he said. ''But if you don't produce, no one cares about a nickname.''
      