
        Gilbert Y. Steiner, an author and authority on American welfare and family policies, and, for many years, a mainstay of the Brookings Institution, died March 1 at a hospice in Washington. He was 81 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        His death was announced on the institution's Web site. The family said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        Dr. Steiner retired from Brookings as a full-time scholar in 1989 and was named a senior fellow emeritus.
        He joined the institution in 1966 as a senior fellow in its governmental studies program after 16 years at the University of Illinois. At the time his scholarly focus was widening from governmental affairs in Chicago and Illinois to the flaws he saw in approaches toward social problems taken on the national level.
        His arrival at Brookings, a Washington research group, coincided with his publication in 1966 of ''Social Insecurity: The Politics of Welfare.''
        In the next two decades, under the aegis of Brookings, he published studies that helped shape the debate over the national social system.
        ''Social Insecurity'' was an early attempt to rethink the welfare system, with ideas that included replacing social rehabilitation efforts with direct financial assistance. ''Social Insecurity'' was followed by ''The State of Welfare'' in 1971, ''The Children's Cause'' in 1976 and ''The Futility of Family Policy'' in 1981.
        ''The Children's Cause,'' written with Pauline H. Milius, asserted that bureaucratic institutions, in the absence of an underlying coherent social theory, were bound to fail children in need.
        In ''The Futility of Family Policy,'' he contended that the government's proper concern should be limited to destitute and plainly dysfunctional families.
        Dr. Steiner's thesis was that family stability was an abstract good, like justice or peace, that everybody wishes for. His conclusion was that family welfare meant too many conflicting things to too many different people and groups to ever allow remedial political action.
        Gilbert Yale Steiner was born in Brooklyn. He served in the Army in World War II and graduated from Columbia in 1945. He received his master's degree at Columbia in 1948 and continued his studies in political science for a Ph.D. and a faculty appointment at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, in 1950.
        Beginning in 1958 at the university, he directed the Institute of Government and Public Affairs, which advised the Legislature and local governments on public policy issues.
        At Brookings he directed the governmental studies program from 1968 to 1976 and was the institution's acting president in 1976 and 1977.
        Dr. Steiner is survived by his wife of 55 years, Louise King Steiner; two sons, Charles K., of Wichita, Kan., and Daniel T., of Chevy Chase; a daughter, Paula A. of Chicago; and six grandchildren.
      