
        Andrall Edwin Pearson, a former president of PepsiCo who as an adviser after leaving the company helped engineer the spinoff of Pepsi's fast-food businesses -- KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut -- died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Alan Rappaport, his son-in-law.
        After 15 years at Pepsi, Mr. Pearson, widely known as Andy, joined Harvard Business School as a professor of management in 1985. Eight years later, at the age of 68, he left Harvard to become a partner in the private equity firm of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice in New York.
        While at Clayton, Dubilier, Mr. Pearson worked with Pepsi to turn its fast-food businesses into a company called Tricon Global Restaurants. At the completion of the deal in 1997 he became chief executive and chairman of the company, now known as Yum Brands, one of the world's largest restaurant businesses. Mr. Pearson was 72 at the time.
        He stepped down as chief executive after three years but remained on the board.
        Mr. Pearson also served on the boards of Citigroup, the May Company, Trans World Airlines, the N.Y.U. Medical Center and the Metropolitan Museum of Art; he was a collector of pre-Columbian art.
        Mr. Pearson was born on June 3, 1925, in Chicago. He and his identical twin, Richard, were reared by their mother, who worked as a nurse and office manager for a doctor after their father and stepfather died.
        After a semester in Los Angeles at the University of Southern California, the brothers enrolled in a Navy training program that made them officers and paid their tuition for bachelor's degrees at U.S.C. and the first year of a two-year M.B.A. program at the Harvard Business School.
        They spent a few months apart at sea before their mother succeeded in having them reunited on the escort carrier Sicily. About two years after they graduated from Harvard in 1947 on the G.I. Bill, relatives introduced them to Joanne and Janice Pope, also identical twins, who were always known as Joey and Jany -- two redheads who had modeled for the Toni home permanent company. In 1951 they were married in a double ceremony in Beverly Hills.
        ''As we walked out the door on our first date we walked out with the one we ended up marrying,'' Richard Pearson said.
        The event was such a novelty that the couples were invited to appear on a TV show with Art Linkletter and were given honeymoons in Las Vegas -- together, of course.
        Richard Pearson retired in 1990 as president and chief operating officer of Avery International, the office supply company, now known as Avery Dennison.
        After Harvard, Andy Pearson worked briefly at Goodyear, then spent seven years at Standard Brands. In 1954, he began a 16-year stint at McKinsey & Company, the consulting company.
        His long relationship with Pepsi began while he was at McKinsey. In 1965, he was part of the team that worked on the merger of the Pepsi Cola Company with Frito-Lay, the potato chip company. Five years later, he was hired by PepsiCo as an executive vice president in operations.
        Then, in 1971, he began a 14-year period as president and chief operating officer of PepsiCo. During his presidency, Pepsi said, annual revenue grew to nearly $8 billion from $1.1 billion.
        Besides his wife and brother, Mr. Pearson's survivors include his daughter, Jill Rappaport and two grandchildren
      