
        Dr. Joseph H. Burchenal, a New York oncologist and the winner of a prestigious Lasker Medical Research Award who did pioneering work with drug treatments for leukemia and other kinds of cancer, died on March 8 in an assisted-living center in Hanover, N.H. He was 93.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Burchenal arrived at what is now the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in the late 1940's, when the primary therapies for cancers were surgery and radiation. In the 50's, he and others experimented with pharmaceutical solutions and used them in path-breaking clinical trials.
        An early success involved the treatment of leukemia in children with the compound 6-mercaptopurine. Dr. Burchenal and other researchers found that the drug, taken orally, led to ''a high percentage of complete remissions, which helped build confidence in new drugs and chemotherapy in general,'' said Dr. Bayard D. Clarkson, a hematologist-oncologist at Sloan-Kettering and a former president of the American Association for Cancer Research.
        Results from the successful clinical trial were published in 1953 in the journal Blood. The drug remains in use in combination with other drugs in treating acute leukemia.
        In the 60's, Dr. Burchenal, who became chief of Sloan-Kettering's division of clinical chemotherapy, contributed to innovative treatments of cancer patients in Africa. A British surgeon, Dr. Denis P. Burkitt, had described an aggressive tumor found in East African children, and Dr. Burchenal and others set out to establish a chemotherapeutic response.
        Dr. Herbert F. Oettgen, an oncologist and immunologist at Sloan-Kettering, collaborated with Dr. Burchenal in testing several drugs, including cyclophosphamide, to combat Burkitt's lymphoma, and helped develop treatments that led to remissions in two-thirds of patients and, in some cases, to cures.
        Dr. Oettgen said, ''He had the idea of using chemotherapy for this lymphoma and, moreover, he convinced the powers that be such a project should be undertaken.''
        For this work, in 1972, Dr. Burchenal received a Lasker Award for clinical medical research, with Dr. Burkitt and 14 others for their work with cancer.
        Joseph Holland Burchenal was born in Milford, Del. He earned an undergraduate degree from Princeton and his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He was vice president of the Sloan-Kettering Institute and was the head of its applied therapy laboratory before retiring in 1983. He was also a professor of medicine at Cornell.
        In 1965, Dr. Burchenal was president of the American Association for Cancer Research, and in 1963, he received the Alfred P. Sloan Award in cancer research.
        Dr. Burchenal is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Joan Barclay Riley. The couple lived in Darien, Conn., before moving to New Hampshire two years ago. His first wife, Margaret Pembroke Thom, died in 1943.
        He is also survived by three sons, Caleb W., of Denver; Dr. David H., an internist, of Stonington, Conn.; and Dr. J. E. B., a cardiologist, of Denver; three daughters, Holly Nottebohm of Guatemala City, Jody Nycum of Denver, and Bobbie Landers of Darien; a sister, Betty Maxfield of Wolfeboro, N.H.; 16 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
      