
        René Lasserre, one of the last of a group of renowned Parisian restaurateurs who came to prominence in the years after World War II but made their fame with the elegant cuisine of years past, died Wednesday at his home in Morsang-sur-Seine, south of Paris. He was 93.
        His death was announced to Agence France-Presse by the current proprietor of the restaurant, Gérard Louis-Canfailla.
        Mr. Lasserre opened his restaurant, called Lasserre, on what was then Avenue Victor-Emmanuel III, in 1942. It was a dilapidated bistro that had been built for the Universal Exhibition of 1937 but, under his aegis, its reputation spread quickly. In 1948 he founded his Club de la Casserole, whose dinners became a must for Parisian celebrities.
        By then, his street had been renamed: it was now Avenue Franklin D. Roosevelt. In 1951, on the same site, across the street from the Grand Palais, a major exhibition hall, he erected the compact neo-Classical building that the world of haute cuisine knows today as Lasserre. Its famous retractable ceiling, which lets out the cigarette smoke and lets in the stars, made its debut a year later.
        Lasserre was an unabashedly old-fashioned restaurant, with its profusion of Chinese porcelain and silver and gold trinkets, a collection of tiny cooking pots made for the restaurant, heavy upholstery and draperies and a collection of live doves that occasionally were released in the dining room to honor a special guest.
        Many of the dishes, too, were heavier on tradition than they were on innovation. Duck à l'orange was a Lasserre favorite long after it had become a cliché everywhere else.
        Among Lasserre's regulars were Salvador Dali and André Malraux, who lunched there almost daily, and for whom Mr. Lasserre named one of his dishes, pigeon André Malraux. It was stuffed with cock's combs, bacon, shallots and mushrooms.
        René Lasserre was born in the Basque country, near Bayonne. He began working in restaurants when he was 12. He was a chef at 17 and a maitre d'hôtel at 19. He worked on the liner Île de France, at the Lido, and at Prunier and Drouant, both famous Paris restaurants, before he went out on his own.
        Lasserre won its first Michelin star in 1949, when its owner was 36. He won his third Michelin star in 1962 and lost it, for good, in 1984. He shrugged that blow off, often referring to his protégés who also won three stars, among them Gérard Boyer, Guy Savoy, Jacques Lameloise and Marc Haeberlin.
        On Mr. Lasserre's 90th birthday, in 2002, Mr. Boyer, then chef-owner at the three-star Les Crayeres in Reims, called him ''our spiritual father.''
        Lasserre remained open during the German occupation but its owner was hailed for his conduct during those years. Former Prime Minister Jacques Chaban-Delmas, an authentic hero of the Resistance, once saluted René Lasserre ''because of the courage you showed during the occupation and the help you gave me and my comrades in the Resistance.''
        Lasserre was sold to a Swiss group in 1997, and both the service and the menu have been updated since then. At the time, Mr. Lasserre said he hoped the new owners would ''pursue the perfect I always tried to attain.''
      