
        G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81.
        The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening and deterioration of the lungs, said Carol Juarer, his secretary at G. William Miller & Company in Washington. She said Mr. Miller was a nonsmoker who had been in good health all his life until the lung disease was diagnosed in June 2004.
        A small, hard-driving Oklahoman with boundless energy, Mr. Miller was a Coast Guard officer, a lawyer and a corporate executive with a dazzling résumé in business, government service, and the arts and humanities.
        He was also a persistent advocate of equal employment opportunities for minorities. A recurrent theme of his speeches and conversations, colleagues said, was a warning against business profits at the expense of the environment and what he called human values.
        Early in his career, Mr. Miller helped build a moderate-size textile manufacturer into the giant aerospace conglomerate Textron, diversifying its reach from consumer goods to industrial equipment and aircraft, including Bell UH-1 helicopters, or Hueys, which were the workhorses of the Vietnam War.
        But he is perhaps best known for his relatively brief service, less than three years, in the Carter administration. In an era of stagflation -- a stagnant economy and rising inflation -- Mr. Miller was the man in the box, using the puppeteer levers of interest rates and monetary policy in search of the delicate balance of dampering inflation without throwing the national economy into a catastrophic tailspin.
        As chairman of the Federal Reserve from March 1978 to August 1979, Mr. Miller pushed interest rates, though not enough to satisfy many of his critics. He also called for a national policy to reduce consumption of foreign oil, recommended cuts in government spending and taxation, and urged labor and management to moderate wage demands and price increases.
        Unlike his predecessor, Arthur F. Burns, who had tried to limit economic expansion in the belief that inflation was the far greater peril, Mr. Miller insisted that inflation and unemployment could be fought simultaneously.
        But the economy remained sluggish and inflation was not subdued, and Wall Street drubbed Mr. Miller as overly cautious, especially in slowing the growth of the nation's money supply. (His successor at the Fed, Paul A. Volcker, brought inflation under control by raising interest rates astronomically.)
        Mr. Miller retained the president's confidence, however, and in a cabinet shakeup on Aug. 6, 1979, he was named treasury secretary to succeed W. Michael Blumenthal. Over the next 17 months, until Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Miller was credited by many administration supporters and detractors with bringing order to an economic policy that had been prone to aimlessness and disarray.
        During his tenure, Mr. Miller also pushed through an accord with labor on wage-price guidelines that had been stalemated for months and negotiated $1.5 billion in loan guarantees that rescued the Chrysler Corporation from near bankruptcy and saved thousands of jobs. He also arranged the freezing -- and later the unfreezing -- of Iranian assets in United States custody during the Iranian hostage crisis, when 52 Americans at the United States Embassy in Tehran were held captive for 444 days.
        ''Bill Miller had great skills in getting disparate parties together on the same page,'' said Steven L. Skancke, a former treasury official and a partner in G. William Miller & Company, the discreet, Swiss-style merchant bank in Washington that had been the focus of Mr. Miller's business interests since 1981.
        George William Miller was born on March 9, 1925, in Sapulpa, Okla., but grew up in Borger, Tex., where his parents hoped in vain to cash in on the discovery of oil in the Texas Panhandle.
        He graduated from the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn., in 1945, and spent the next four years as a line officer in the Pacific, mostly in Okinawa and Shanghai, where he met and married Ariadna Rogojarsky, a Russian émigré. The couple had no children.
        After graduating at the top of his law school class at the University of California, Berkeley, he joined the Wall Street firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore in 1952. But in 1956, he joined Textron, based in Providence, R.I., as an assistant secretary.
        Within four years he was president of the company, and over the next 18 years he turned it into a global enterprise with arms in aerospace, consumer goods and industrial equipment.
        Mr. Miller never ran for political office, but he was enlisted by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, as well as by Mr. Carter, to lead efforts to attack unemployment, assist minorities and veterans, and fight inflation and a flagging economy. From 1963 to 1965, he was chairman of an advisory council to the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity.
        In 1968, he was chairman of a national business group's campaign for the Democratic ticket, Hubert H. Humphrey and Edmund S. Muskie. He was chairman and chief executive of Federated Stores from 1990 to 1992.
        He was also a director of many corporations and the Washington National Opera, a treasurer of the American Red Cross and a member of the National Council on the Humanities.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Miller is survived by three sisters: Catherine Spiller and Myra Fowler, of Amarillo, Tex., and Mabel Wade, of Bedford, Va.; and two brothers, Othneil and Dee, both of Amarillo.
      