
        John Reynolds Gardiner, an avowed nonreader throughout his childhood who became a best-selling children's book author, died on March 4 in Anaheim, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Huntington Beach, Calif.
        The cause was longtime complications of necrotizing pancreatitis, his wife, Gloria Gardiner, said.
        Mr. Gardiner was best known for ''Stone Fox'' (HarperCollins, 1980), a children's story based on a Rocky Mountain legend about a boy who enters a dog-sledding contest to raise funds to save his bedridden grandfather's farm by paying back taxes. He finds himself competing against an American Indian who needs the prize money to buy back tribal land for his people.
        The book, still in print, has sold four million copies. In 1987, it was turned into a television movie starring Buddy Ebsen. It also became the core of many elementary-school lessons plans throughout the country, and in later years, Mr. Gardiner toured the country speaking about his work to students and adults, making about 300 appearances a year.
        Mr. Gardiner wrote two other children's books, ''Top Secret'' (Little Brown & Company, 1985) and ''General Butterfingers'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1986). They were well received but did not get the accolades that ''Stone Fox'' received.
        Mr. Gardiner also wrote ''How to Write a Story That's Not Boring'' and ''How to Live a Life That's Not Boring,'' which he published himself.
        Mr. Gardiner was an engineer specializing in thermodynamics. He graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, where he also received a master's degree in engineering. He and his family lived all over the country and in England and Italy while he worked under contract to companies including Rockwell International, McDonnell Douglas and Alitalia, as well as NASA. He did his writing during lunch breaks.
        Born on Dec. 6, 1944, to Glenn Gardiner, a school administrator, and Rachel Gardiner, a homemaker, he was raised in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. Besides his wife, his survivors include three daughters, Carolina, Alicia and Danielle Gardiner, all of Huntington Beach; a brother, Kenneth Gardiner of Tucson; two sisters, Kay Brown of Tucson and Susan Broome of Rohnert Park, Calif.; and a granddaughter. As a child, Mr. Gardiner resisted reading, and did not read his first novel until he was 19, he recalled in an autobiographical sketch in 1989.
        A poor speller and grammarian, he got low grades on his compositions in school. ''The imagination was there, and so was the humor that was to appear later in my books, but my teachers didn't seem to notice, except for one who said, 'You couldn't have written this,' '' he said.
        Warned that he would do poorly in college English, he took what he described as ''dumbbell'' English, meant for non-English speakers at U.C.L.A.
        ''With all this encouragement, I wrote no stories between the ages of 18 and 28,'' he wrote. ''Ten lost years.''
        When he was 28, his brother, Ken, persuaded him to enroll in a television writing class where the teacher was unconcerned about spelling and grammar. He began writing screenplays that were never produced, but a producer suggested that one of them be turned into a book-- ''Stone Fox.''
      