
        Benjamin Matthews, an operatic bass-baritone who was a founder of the Opera Ebony company, died on Feb. 14 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was the effects of a stroke he had in early January, said Anthony Turner, the secretary-treasurer of the Opera Ebony advisory committee and a voice student of Mr. Matthews's.
        As a singer, Mr. Matthews appeared often in opera, oratorio and concert, singing everything from Virgil Thomson's ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' to Mendelssohn's ''Elijah'' to Gershwin's Porgy. He made his City Opera debut in Leon Kirchner's opera ''Lily,'' based on the novel ''Henderson the Rain King,'' in 1977. He also sang frequently with the Collegiate Chorale.
        He also collected African-American music and performed it in recitals and master classes around the world, emphasizing the performance style of spirituals, work songs, Creole music and neglected African-American composers. Opera Ebony, which he founded in 1973 with the pianist Wayne Sanders, gave him another forum for championing black artists, be it by offering an all-black cast in Gounod's ''Faust'' or by commissioning new operas based on the lives of historical figures like Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman. The company, which still performs regularly, also revived a piece by William Grant Still.
        Benjamin Matthews was born in Mobile, Ala., on June 20, 1933. After moving to Chicago for high school, he enlisted in the Army; while stationed in Germany, he won second place in an all-Army singing contest.
        He had never formally studied voice, but upon his discharge he entered the Chicago Conservatory, and he later studied opera with Boris Goldovsky. His teachers were initially skeptical about whether such a late starter could make a career in music. He did.
        Mr. Matthews is survived by a son, Derrick, of Jackson, Miss.; four sisters, Juanita Mickles, Willie Alice Seales and Catherine Ward of Prichard, Ala., and Stella M. Conner of Eight Mile, Ala.; two brothers, Willie Matthews Jr. of Saginaw, Mich., and Wesley Matthews of Mobile; three granddaughters; and a stepgrandson.
      