
        Richard K. Root, a prominent American epidemiologist and medical educator, was reported killed on Sunday when a crocodile pulled him into a river while he was on a guided safari tour in Botswana, in southern Africa. He was 68 and lived in Seattle.
        Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of infectious diseases and director of the visiting program at the University of Pennsylvania, announced the death yesterday. Citing reports from the scene, Dr. Friedman said Dr. Root was riding in a canoe in the Tuli Nature Reserve, on the eastern border with Zimbabwe, when he was attacked by the crocodile. His wife, Rita, was in another canoe behind and witnessed the attack, Dr. Friedman said.
        Dr. Root was on a two-month assignment to teach and provide medical care for patients, most of them infected with HIV, at the Princess Marina Hospital in Gaborone, the capital of Botswana. He was there at the invitation of Penn and the Botswana Department of Health.
        Dr. Root was most recently a professor and vice chairman of the Department of Medicine at the University of Washington and chief of medical service at the medical school; he had held emeritus status since December 2002.
        He previously was the chairman of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. He had worked earlier as senior investigator at the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Md., was the founding chief of the department of infectious diseases at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in the 1970's and was chief of the department of infectious diseases at the Yale University School of Medicine.
        He was known nationally as an educator who helped medical schools develop their teaching programs. His research and clinical studies focused on the body's defenses against bacterial infections, particularly the management of sepsis and septic shock, and he wrote extensively in that field.
        He was a mentor to physicians and scientists who moved into leading positions in academic medicine.
        Richard Kay Root was born in New York City. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1959 and received his medical degree at Johns Hopkins University in 1963.
        Dr. Root married Rita O'Boyle 18 months ago. His first wife, Marilyn Parletta Root, died in 2001 after 41 years of marriage. He is survived by three sons, Richard A., of Upland, Calif., David L., of Seattle, and Dr. Daniel C., of Kirkland, Wash.; a sister, Carole Neubauer of Merritt Island, Fla.; and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 23, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Richard K. Root, the doctor reported killed by a crocodile while on safari in Botswana, misstated his medical specialty. He was an infectious disease specialist, not an epidemiologist.
      