
        James O. Freedman, a former president of Dartmouth College and the University of Iowa and a forceful voice against anti-Semitism and other forms of intolerance on college campuses, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 70.
        He died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his son, Jared, said.
        Mr. Freedman was a strong advocate for a liberal education in an increasingly career-oriented world, but he gained his widest attention for speaking out against strains of prejudice and bigotry in the academic world.
        In one widely publicized episode, in 1988, he condemned The Dartmouth Review, a conservative student newspaper, for ridiculing blacks, gay men and lesbians, women and Jews. In a column and a front-page cartoon, the paper had portrayed Mr. Freedman, who was Jewish, with a Hitler mustache and wearing a Nazi uniform and had likened the effects of his campus policies to the Holocaust.
        Mr. Freedman defended The Review's right to publish, but he declared, ''Racism, sexism and other forms of ignorance and disrespect have no place at Dartmouth.''
        He spoke on a similar theme in 1997, at the dedication of a Dartmouth center for Jewish students. In a widely reported speech, he recounted a history of anti-Semitism at Dartmouth and other elite colleges, quoting, among others, a former Dartmouth president who had described the college's interest in the ''Christianization of its students.'' Mr. Freedman assured the audience that such language was a thing of the past, and that Jewish students had ''a proud place at Dartmouth today.''
        Five years later he helped gather the signatures of more than 300 college presidents in issuing a joint statement calling for ''intimidation-free'' campuses. The statement grew out of incidents in which Jewish students were reported to have been harassed and intimidated at student rallies protesting the Israeli government's treatment of Palestinians. The statement drew some criticism, however, for focusing only on Jewish students.
        Beneath the public persona, Mr. Freedman was a consummate intellectual, addicted to buying books and losing himself in them. His collection exceeded 6,000 volumes, some piled in towers in the study of his home near the Dartmouth campus, in Hanover, N.H.
        James Oliver Freedman traced his love of reading to his youth in Manchester, N.H. When he was 15, he recalled, he was spending a summer washing dishes in a hospital, a job he found exhausting and boring. So his father, Louis Freedman, a high school English teacher, said he could quit on one condition: that he spend the rest of the summer reading.
        He started with Sinclair Lewis and W. Somerset Maugham, and was hooked. His father and his mother, Sophie Freedman, a bookkeeper at a bank, pushed him to attend Harvard.
        ''To their generation of New England Jews, Harvard represented the most exalted educational opportunity available and the most reliable vehicle of upward social mobility,'' he wrote in ''Idealism and Liberal Education,'' a collection of his essays published in 1996 by University of Michigan Press.
        Mr. Freedman entered Harvard in 1953, then moved on to Harvard Law School. But he was unhappy and dropped out, returning home to work for the Manchester newspaper, The Union Leader, as a copy boy and reporter.
        Two years later he tried law school again, this time at Yale, and went on to clerk for Thurgood Marshall, who was a Federal Appeals Court judge in New York at the time.
        After working briefly at a New York law firm, Mr. Freedman turned to academia, starting as an assistant law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. He later became associate provost and dean of the law school.
        In 1982, the University of Iowa tapped him as president, a post he held for five years.
        When Dartmouth recruited him, in 1987, he became the first president of the college since 1822 not to have been a student or faculty member there. His mission, he wrote in ''Idealism and Liberal Education,'' was to shore up the intellectual reputation of a college known for being ''inhospitable to women, fraternity-oriented, unintellectual, ultraconservative and especially congenial for 'jocks.' ''
        In his inaugural address, he declared his intention to make Dartmouth more attractive to students who took pleasure in ''the lonely acts of writing poetry or mastering the cello or solving mathematical riddles or translating Catullus.''
        When he stepped down in 1998, a professor of religion at Dartmouth, Susan Ackerman, said he had ''upped the intellectual ante'' at the college.
        ''The students are brighter and brighter, and now they're not afraid to admit that they're bright,'' said Professor Ackerman, who was quoted in a New York Times article. ''He's made it O.K. to talk about books and ideas.''
        Mr. Freedman and his wife, Bathsheba, a clinical psychologist, moved to Cambridge, where he later became president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, which is based there.
        In addition to his wife and son, Jared, of Washington, he is survived by a daughter, Deborah Freedman, of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Freedman was by nature a private man, but he often opened his life publicly to help others. In talks with students, he told of his transformation from a shy and reserved boy who had lacked confidence into a public figure. He also spoke openly of his long fight with cancer.
        ''Hearing a physician say the dread word 'cancer' has an uncanny capacity to concentrate the mind,'' he said at Dartmouth's 1994 graduation ceremony, a time when chemotherapy had caused him to lose much of his hair.
        ''That is what liberal education does, too,'' he said. ''When the ground seems to shake and shift beneath us, liberal education provides perspective, enabling us to see life steadily and see it whole. It has taken an illness to remind me, in my middle age, of that lesson.''
      