
        Gene Scott, who served tennis for a half-century as a world-ranked player, tournament director, player agent, author and, perhaps most significant, the founder, publisher, editor and iconoclastic columnist of Tennis Week magazine, died Monday in the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68 and lived in New York.
        His wife, Polly, said the cause of death was amyloidosis, an illness in which insoluble protein fibers accumulate in body organs and impair them.
        Scott was the director of more than 200 tournaments at such diverse sites as Madison Square Garden and Moscow. He wrote 20 tennis books as well as magazine articles about the sport. He produced tennis documentaries for CBS-TV. He was a television commentator for the 1973 exhibition match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs, known as the Battle of the Sexes. In 1969, he was a co-founder of the National Junior Tennis League and mentored young players like John McEnroe and Vitas Gerulaitis.
        In 1974, he founded Tennis Week. When Passing Shot magazine once asked if Tennis Week had been as successful as he had hoped, he said: ''Never will one fulfill all of one's dreams and goals. The reason I do Tennis Week is that we get an unbelievable amount of psychic income from positive response.''
        He was outspoken and unafraid to alienate the sport's bureaucracy. In an editorial in 2003, he called the traditional deuce-ad scoring system ''a tedious turnoff, an example of the game's ongoing mindlessness.'' He said he had never understood why the United States Tennis Association once made him a director at large for two years. ''The process by which I was elected was something of a miracle,'' he said. ''I thought I was probably too controversial an article to have in the chicken coop.''
        Tennis magazine said that his Vantage Point column had made him ''the conscience of the tennis world'' and that he ''challenges people to think about issues, specifically what's right and wrong about the tennis business.''
        King told Tennis Week, ''He challenged the way we look at tennis and pushed us to make the sport better for everyone.''
        Eugene Lytton Scott was born Dec. 28, 1937, in New York, the grandson of Dr. Eugene C. Sullivan, an inventor of Pyrex and the chairman and president of Corning Glass Works. He grew up in St. James on Long Island and started playing tennis at 10 on public courts.
        ''The courts had chain-link fences for nets, he once recalled, ''and there was no one around to teach you.''
        He earned a bachelor's degree in history from Yale in 1960 and a law degree from Virginia in 1964. At Yale, he won three letters in tennis, three in hockey, two in soccer and one in lacrosse. In the track meet between the Yale-Harvard combined team and Oxford-Cambridge, he was about to earn a 10th letter, but when he got into the qualifying tournament for the Wimbledon championships, he chose tennis over high jumping.
        With his serve-and-volley game, he reached the quarterfinals of the 1964 French championships and the semifinals of the 1967 United States championships. He was a member of the United States Davis Cup team in 1963 and 1965, and was ranked No. 11 in the world in 1965 and ranked in the United States top 10 five times.
        He won five consecutive United States Open championships (1973 to 1977) in court tennis, an antecedent of tennis. In 2000, he was elected to the Court Tennis Hall of Fame.
        In 1992, he married Polly Eastman of Rye, N.Y. He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Lucy; a son, Sam; and a brother, Timothy, of Madison, Conn.
        Despite having double hip-replacement surgery, Scott continued playing in senior tournaments. He won 40 national titles, the last in 2004, when, on successive weekends in Philadelphia, he won the United States and the world grass-court titles for men 65 and older.
        He once said that playing at an advanced age was no big deal.
        ''You can do it until you're 90,'' he said.
      