
        Anselmo Colzani, an operatic baritone whose dramatic sensibility helped make him a fixture at the Metropolitan Opera and other houses in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Milan. He was 87.
        He died after a long illness, Marina Boagno, president of the Franco Corelli Opera Association, told the Italian news media.
        Mr. Colzani was one of several Italian baritones who made their Met debuts in the 1960 season, after the sudden death of Leonard Warren onstage during ''La Forza del Destino'' in March. A few weeks later, Mr. Colzani took over Mr. Warren's role in Verdi's ''Simone Boccanegra.'' It was not only the first time he had ever sung at the Met, but the first time he had ever sung the role; he had to learn it in a matter of days. He acquitted himself well enough that he became a regular at the Met for the next 18 seasons. Particular signature roles included Jack Rance in Puccini's ''Fanciulla del West'' and the title role of Verdi's ''Falstaff,'' as well as Scarpia in ''Tosca,'' Amonasro in ''Aida'' and Iago in ''Otello.''
        Born on March 28, 1918, in Budrio, near Bologna, Italy, to musical parents, Anselmo Colzani joined the Italian Army before beginning to study singing in earnest. He made his debut at the Teatro Comunale in Bologna in 1946 in the small role of the Herald in Wagner's ''Lohengrin,'' appearing with a soprano making her debut at the house, Renata Tebaldi. There followed the title role of ''Rigoletto,'' which helped start his career. In 1952, he made his debut at La Scala in ''Cavalleria Rusticana.''
        He made his debut at the San Francisco Opera in 1956 and sang there a number of times, but it was at the Met that he established his most lasting foothold in the United States. He appeared there and throughout Europe with the major stars of the day, including Maria Callas, Galina Vishnevskaya, Zinka Milanov, Franco Corelli, Richard Tucker and Carlo Bergonzi. His broad repertory also included new and less-known works like Darius Milhaud's ''David'' and Ildebrando Pizzetti's ''Fedra.''
        Mr. Colzani's last Met performance was as Michonnet in ''Adriana Lecouvreur'' in 1978. He continued singing until 1980, when he gave his final performance in ''Tosca.'' His hometown, Budrio, recently established an international opera competition named for him, which was held for the fourth time in February.
        Mr. Colzani's first wife died young, leaving him with two daughters, Bianca and Miriam. They survive him, as does his second wife, Ada, to whom he was married for more than 50 years.
      