
        Paul A. Flaherty, a computer engineer who had the original idea for AltaVista, the first Internet search engine to make an encyclopedic effort to index the World Wide Web, died March 16 at his home in Belmont, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 42.
        His wife, Natasha Flaherty, said the cause had not yet been determined and would not be made public.
        Although AltaVista was not the first Internet search engine, at the end of 1995 it became the first Web-page discovery tool to enjoy wide popularity, and helped create the dot-com era. The service was developed by a group of researchers at the Digital Equipment Corporation research laboratories in Palo Alto, Calif.
        Initially indexing 16 million Web pages, the site was made public on Dec. 15, 1995, and according to a Digital Equipment Web page, within three weeks it was handling two million requests each day. That number grew to 22 million within 11 months.
        Mr. Flaherty conceived of the idea of indexing the World Wide Web as a way of demonstrating the power of a new line of Digital Equipment computers while he was on a brief business trip to Italy with his wife during the spring of 1995, she said.
        After returning to Palo Alto, where he was a research scientist for Digital Equipment, he discussed the idea at a series of staff meetings with Louis Monier and Joella Paquette, two other Digital employees. Mr. Monier went on to become the technical leader of the project.
        Mr. Flaherty worked at Digital until 1999, when AltaVista was spun off as a private company. He was director for technical strategy at AltaVista until 2001, when he left to work for Zindigo, a consulting firm. He later was an associate partner at Accenture, a managing consulting firm, and then became vice president for product development at TalkPlus, a telecommunications software firm based in Menlo Park, Calif.
        Mr. Flaherty was born in Milwaukee and raised in Grand Rapids, Mich. He received a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Marquette University and a master's degree and Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Stanford University.
        He is survived by his wife, Natasha Margaret Minenko Flaherty, of Belmont; his parents, James and Ruth Flaherty of Fargo, N.D.; and four brothers, James and Michael, both of Fargo; Daniel, of Watertown, S.D.; and Dennis, of Denver.
        Correction:  March 31, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Friday about Paul A. Flaherty, a computer engineer who was a pioneer in indexing the World Wide Web, misidentified the state where he was raised. He is from Grand Rapids, Minn., not Michigan.
      