
        Pío Leyva, a songwriter and singer renowned in his native Cuba, who appeared in the film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Thursday in Havana. He was 88 and lived in Havana.
        The cause was a heart attack after a stroke he suffered on Sunday, his daughter, Rosalia, told Reuters.
        Mr. Leyva was a major figure in 1950's Cuban music. He had a hearty baritone and a vigorous, rural-flavored style of improvising on the uptempo montuno sections of songs, earning him the nickname El Montunero de Cuba. He was also a celebrated songwriter, providing Cuba's leading singer, Beny Moré, with one of his major hits, ''Francisco Guayabal.'' Along with other musicians of his generation, he was discovered by an international audience in the wake of the Buena Vista Social Club tour and film.
        Mr. Leyva was born Wilfredo Leiva Pascual in Morón, near Camagüey in central Cuba. He won a bongo-drumming contest when he was 6 and began singing in his hometown and then in Camagüey before moving to Havana. He signed to RCA Victor in 1950 and made more than 25 albums for the label. He recorded with Mariano Mercerón, Orquesta Cosmópolita and Niño Rivera, among others, and sang in the group Sabor de Cuba. He also sang backup for Moré.
        On the night when Cuban revolutionaries took over the presidential palace in Havana, he was in a recording session with Compay Segundo, and he would say later that gunshots could be heard on the recordings.
        After the revolution, he continued to record and appear regularly on Cuban television. (On some of his recordings, he is billed as Pío Leiva.) He appeared on an important album of Cuban music, ''Estrellas de Areíto,'' in 1979, and unlike some of the Buena Vista Social Club musicians, he was still well known in his later years.
        He did not appear on the original ''Buena Vista Social Club'' album, released in 1997, but was part of the group when it appeared at Carnegie Hall and was filmed for the 1999 documentary ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' made by Wim Wenders. He made guest appearances on solo albums by Buena Vista members, including Mr. Segundo, Ibrahim Ferrer, Omara Portuondo, Barbaríto Torres and the group's core of backup musicians, the Afro-Cuban All-Stars.
        He is survived by his daughter.
      