
        Roland L. Kohloff, principal timpanist of the New York Philharmonic for 32 years, who was known for his effortless grace on one of the orchestra's most exposed instruments, died on Feb. 24 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said the Philharmonic's spokesman, Eric Latzky, who announced his death.
        Mr. Kohloff, who retired in 2004, became a familiar figure to television audiences for his showmanship as he flourished the mallets that strike the timpani, also known as the kettledrum. Usually made of shiny copper shells with calfskin or plastic tops, a set of timpani can be tuned by screws or pedals, and they are the main percussion instruments of the orchestra.
        Seemingly simple to the casual observer, the timpanist's art requires a keen ear, the ability to produce a range of sound qualities and the skill to blend or stand out when necessary. The prominent sound of the kettledrums amid the ensemble also leaves little place for a timpanist to hide.
        Like all players of the timpani at the highest level, Mr. Kohloff demonstrated extraordinary concentration, said Benjamin Herman, a timpanist in New York who often substituted for him with the Philharmonic. But he had other qualities, he said.
        ''He was fiery and extraordinarily accurate, and exceptionally musical,'' Mr. Herman said.
        Mr. Kohloff gave the New York premieres of several contemporary timpani works, including Franco Donatoni's ''Concertino for Strings, Brass and Solo Timpani'' and Siegfried Matthus's Timpani Concerto.
        Mr. Kohloff entered orchestra lore one night in 1978. He had a concert at Lincoln Center with the Philharmonic at 7:30. A half-hour later at Carnegie Hall, the Philadelphia Orchestra under Eugene Ormandy was to play a program including the large-scale ''Final Alice,'' composed two years earlier by David Del Tredici.
        But just before the Philadelphia Orchestra came to New York, the father of its timpanist died, and the timpanist could not make it. Mr. Kohloff had played the piece the year before with the Philharmonic, so he was asked to fill in. Because ''Final Alice'' was on the second half of the Philadelphians' Carnegie program, Mr. Kohloff was able to race down to 57th Street and make it in time.
        Mr. Kohloff was born on Jan. 20, 1935, and grew up in Mamaroneck, N.Y. His father was a letter carrier. He attended the Juilliard School, where he later taught many timpanists who now play in major orchestras, and he studied there with the legendary timpanist Saul Goodman.
        ''One day Goodman said to me, 'Someday you will be better than me,' '' Mr. Kohloff said in a Philharmonic biographical sketch. He went on to become principal timpanist in the San Francisco Symphony for 16 years before joining the Philharmonic -- succeeding Mr. Goodman.
        Mr. Kohloff is survived by his wife, Janet; a son, Stephen; a daughter, Jami Grassi; a sister, Cindi; and a brother, George.
        Mr. Kohloff was open about suffering from severe depression, and publicly discussed undergoing electroshock therapy. ''What I think it did was to act like a Roto-Rooter on the depression,'' he told The New York Times in 1993. ''It just reamed me clear and the depression was gone.''
      