
        Dr. Leo Lutwak, a biochemist and nutritionist who raised early concerns about health risks from the diet aid fen-phen while he was a medical officer for the Food and Drug Administration, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Maryland. He was 77 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        At the F.D.A., Dr. Lutwak reviewed the medical literature on fen-phen and one of its constituent drugs, dexfenfluramine (marketed as Redux), which was then used as an appetite suppressant in diet supplements. Despite Dr. Lutwak's warnings, the agency approved fen-phen in 1996.
        Some six million people took the diet drugs Redux and Pondimin, which were combined with the generic phentermine to make the weight-loss cocktail known as fen-phen. Phentermine remains on the market.
        Redux and Pondimin were withdrawn in 1997 after reports linked them to hypertension and heart-valve problems.
        Dr. Lutwak, a former nutritionist at Cornell, emerged as a critic of the F.D.A.'s relationship with pharmaceutical manufacturers. He was later cited in an investigative book about fen-phen and in a Los Angeles Times series on the agency. The series received a Pulitzer Prize in 2001.
        While at Cornell, from 1963 to 1972, Dr. Lutwak studied the role of calcium in preventing osteoporosis, and questioned the nutritive value of many breakfast cereals. He said the cereals tended to lack vitamins and minerals and ''cost more per pound than if you ate filet mignon.''
        In 1965, he contributed to studies of metabolism and the physiological effects of weightlessness on astronauts on the Gemini 7 space flight.
        Leo Lutwak was born in the Bronx. He received an undergraduate degree at the College of the City of New York. He earned a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin and his doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Michigan. He later received a medical degree from Yale.
        Dr. Lutwak taught briefly at Georgetown and was a senior investigator for the National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases from 1960 to 1963. In the 1970's, he worked in private practice in Los Angeles; Akron, Ohio; and Huntsville, Ala., before joining the F.D.A. in the late 1980's. He retired two years ago.
        Dr. Lutwak's first wife, the former Cecile Kroshinsky, died in 1976. A second marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by three daughters, Diane Lutwak of Brooklyn, Aviva Lutwak of North Potomac, Md., and Jean Pavlov of Oakland, Calif.; four sons, David, of Montgomery Village, Md., Paul, of Freeville, N.Y., Mark, of Kaneohe, Hawaii, and Robert, of Marblehead, Mass.; a sister, Helen Lutwak of Silver Spring; and six grandchildren.
      