
        Henry M. Morris, the father of modern creationism, whose prolific writings sought scientific validation for a literal interpretation of the Bible and provided the intellectual underpinnings for attacks on evolution as an account of world history, died last Saturday in a hospital near San Diego. He was 87.
        The cause was a stroke, one in a series that began Feb. 1, said a spokeswoman for the Institute for Creation Research in Santee, Calif., which Dr. Morris founded in 1970 and ran until a decade ago.
        Known among followers and friends as Dr. Henry, Dr. Morris was a hydraulic engineer and taught at several universities before developing his critique of evolution and a history of Earth that spans 4.5 billion years in the 1961 work ''The Genesis Flood.'' The book, written with the theologian John C. Whitcomb, was the first to take a scholarly approach to proving the Old Testament creation story, and it argued that Noah's flood, rather than eons of erosion, sculptured the earth.
        Considered the handbook of creationism, ''The Genesis Flood'' is in its 44th printing, having sold 250,000 copies in English.
        ''It was a groundbreaking work in that he basically, in this culture, in this day and age, showed that there were scientific answers to be able to defend the Christian faith and uphold the Bible's account,'' said Ken Ham, president of Answers in Genesis, a group based in Kentucky. Mr. Ham said that picking up a copy of the book in Brisbane, Australia, while a graduate student in 1974 was a transformational moment in his own life.
        ''The grass-roots movement you see across America right now, with the school board battles, with the students questioning evolution in colleges, all of that is really in a big part due to the work of Dr. Henry Morris,'' Mr. Ham said. ''All of us in the modern creationism movement today would say we stand on his shoulders.''
        Dr. Morris wrote more than 60 other books interweaving science and theology, as well as a graduate textbook, ''Applied Hydraulics in Engineering'' (1963). His Institute for Creation Research, a hybrid of a ministry and a research organization that grants master's degrees, led to scores more books from like-minded scholars shunned by mainstream academia.
        ''There were many, many Christian men of science who were deeply suspicious of the claims of uniformitarian evolutionism, but there was no coherence, there was no rallying point,'' said Dr. Whitcomb, president of his own creationist ministry in Indianapolis. ''Henry Morris said, 'Here we are, here's what we stand for, we have a graduate program, we have a research program, we have a library, let's sit down and talk.' ''
        Henry Madison Morris was born Oct. 6, 1918, in Dallas. He graduated from Rice University in 1939 and earned a master's degree and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota. He was a co-founder of Christian Heritage College, now called San Diego Christian College, and was the first president of the Transnational Association of Christian Schools and Colleges, an accrediting agency.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Mary Louise; his sons John, who took over as president of the institute, and Henry; his daughters, Kathleen Bruce, Mary Smith and Rebecca Barber; 17 grandchildren; and 9 great-grandchildren. Another son, Andrew, died in 1989.
        Eugenie C. Scott, director of the National Center for Science Education, the leading defender of teaching evolution in public schools, said Dr. Morris's books ''have no scientific merit.'' She said he was ''the most important creationist of the 20th century, much more so than William Jennings Bryan.'' She recalled his ''cordial, gentlemanly'' manner when he invited her to lunch at his Santee research center a few years ago.
        ''It was obvious that we are going to disagree on science; it's obvious that we disagree on evolution,'' Dr. Scott said. ''I feel that he was absolutely sincere about his convictions that the Bible was literally true and that science would support it and creation science was good science.''
      