
        Ken Kaess, who as chief executive helped DDB Worldwide solidify its position as one of the world's leading advertising agencies by attracting major new clients and championing its digital operation even after the dot-com boom had faded, died on Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 51.
        The cause of death was cancer, the agency said.
        Mr. Kaess, the president and chief executive of DDB Worldwide in New York, returned to work in February from medical leave but suffered a setback earlier this month.
        Mr. Kaess worked for DDB and its predecessors for three decades. He also worked for Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor, and New World Entertainment, where he helped create the animated television series ''Muppet Babies.''
        After running the Los Angeles and New York offices of DDB, he became worldwide president in 1999 and chief executive in 2001.
        During the five years that Mr. Kaess served as chief executive, DDB gained the accounts of major brands and marketers like Capital One, Diet Pepsi and Midas. After the collapse of the Internet bubble, Mr. Kaess successfully fought to keep open the agency's digital operation, Tribal DDB Worldwide, which was named interactive agency of the year for 2005 by the trade publication Adweek.
        Mr. Kaess ''was the driver behind DDB's success during these last five years,'' said John D. Wren, the president and chief executive of the Omnicom Group in New York, the company that owns DDB.
        Mr. Kaess was also the first executive to serve two consecutive terms as chairman of the industry trade organization, the American Association of Advertising Agencies. He was a founder of an annual weeklong event to celebrate the role the industry plays in New York life.
        Kenneth Richard Kaess Jr. was born July 30, 1954, in Waterbury, Conn. He grew up in Watertown, Conn., and graduated from Vassar College. Mr. Kaess is survived by his former wife, Heidi, and their children, Christopher and Courtney, all of Westport; his father, Dr. Kenneth R. Kaess Sr., of Redding, Conn.; a sister, Karen Kaess, of Greenwich, Conn.; and a brother, Karl, of Wilton, Conn.
      