
        Nikki Sudden, a pioneer of the English rock avant-garde known for his velvet jackets and larger-than-life panache, died on Sunday, a day after performing at the Knitting Factory in Manhattan. He was 49.
        His record company, Secretly Canadian, announced his death on the company's Web site but gave no cause. Neither did Mr. Sudden's own Web site.
        Mr. Sudden's original name was Nicholas Godfrey, and his ramshackle, brittle style of punk rock became a cult enthusiasm in Europe and the United States. He wrote hundreds of songs and released more than 20 albums, some with groups, some solo.
        He progressed from embracing what was known as glam rock, an exuberant breed of punk in the 1970's, to becoming something of a rock revivalist and balladeer. He was part of influential bands like Swell Maps in the 1970's and the Jacobites in the 1980's, and did an album with three members of R.E.M. that was reissued under the title ''Liquor, Guns and Ammo.''
        ''He's the quintessential brand of hero and sonic delicacy that record store clerks, completist collectors and (cough) music journalists obsess over,'' Donny Kutzbach wrote this month in Artvoice, an alternative newsweekly in Buffalo.
        But not mass audiences: Mr. Sudden had no hits, gold records or other outward symbols of success. His fans relished his efforts to take punk rock to the level of quirky experimental art, not to mention his piratelike appearance.
        Nicholas Godfrey was born in London on July 19, 1956, and began playing the guitar in 1971 after hearing the band T. Rex, he wrote on his Web site. He and his brother, Kevin Paul Godfrey, a drummer who chose the stage name Epic Soundtracks, began playing together, and joined with others in 1977 to form the group Swell Maps. His brother died in 1997.
        Before their breakup in 1980, the Swell Maps produced four singles and two albums. Mr. Sudden then made two solo albums before joining with the guitarist Dave Kusworth to form the Jacobites. The Jacobites broke up in 1986, and Mr. Sudden returned to his solo career. He did five albums over the next five years, including ''Texas.'' In 1990, Mr. Sudden made his album with R.E.M. members. In 1993, the Jacobites reunited and did three albums and reissued two.
        He is survived by his mother and father, Lois and Trevor Godfrey.
      