
        Hubert J. P. Schoemaker, a founder and former president of one of the nation's first biotechnology companies, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Paoli, Pa. He was 55.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his stepson, Jonathan Saruk.
        Mr. Schoemaker helped start Centocor, which is best known for developing Remicade, a drug for rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease. He also mentored other biotechnology entrepreneurs in the Philadelphia area.
        ''He was able to energize people and translate sometimes very complex science into a very understandable business equation,'' said David P. Holveck, who succeeded Mr. Schoemaker as chief executive of Centocor and is now an executive at Johnson & Johnson.
        In 1994, Mr. Schoemaker was discovered to have medulloblastoma, a usually fatal cancer for which he received numerous treatments. But he continued to work at Centocor and a smaller company he later founded.
        Mr. Schoemaker, who was born in the Netherlands, came to the United States in his late teens and graduated from the University of Notre Dame, majoring in chemistry. He then earned a doctorate in biochemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After a brief stint working at a friend's bottle factory, he went to Corning Medical, a division of the glassware company that developed diagnostic tests.
        He left Corning in 1979 to start Centocor with Michael A. Wall, an entrepreneur, and Hilary Koprowski, then the director of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology in Philadelphia. Another scientist, Vincent R. Zurawski Jr., is also often considered a co-founder of Centocor.
        The company, which moved to Malvern, Pa., began using the new technology of monoclonal antibodies to develop diagnostic tests. It then used monoclonal antibodies to develop a drug to treat sepsis, a life-threatening reaction to a bacterial infection.
        It was expected by some investors to be a blockbuster drug, but in 1992, the Food and Drug Administration declined to approve it because of questionable effectiveness. Centocor's stock collapsed, the company laid off about two-thirds of its 1,500 employees and Mr. Schoemaker stepped aside as chief executive, though he remained chairman of the board.
        Centocor eventually recovered. Reopro, an anticlotting drug, was approved in 1994. That was followed by the 1998 approval of Remicade, which has become one of the best-selling drugs ever produced by the biotechnology industry. Sales in 2004 were $2.1 billion.
        Johnson & Johnson acquired Centocor in 1999 for $4.9 billion. Mr. Schoemaker left and founded Neuronyx, a company in Malvern, Pa., that is trying to use stem cells to treat neurological and cardiovascular diseases.
        Last January, Pennsylvania Bio, the trade group representing the state's biotechnology industry, awarded Mr. Schoemaker its first lifetime achievement award.
        In addition to Mr. Saruk of New York, Mr. Schoemaker is survived by his wife of nine years, Anne Faulkner Schoemaker; three daughters, Maureen, Katherine and Anne; and one son, Matthew, all of the Philadelphia area; his parents, Paul and Betty Schoemaker; three sisters, all of whom live in the Netherlands; and one brother, Paul, who lives in the Philadelphia area.
      