
        Denis Twitchett, a scholar of imperial China best known for his role in conceiving and creating ''The Cambridge History of China,'' a monumental 15-volume study widely regarded as the most comprehensive history of China in the English language, died on Feb. 24 in Cambridge, England. He was 80.
        His death was announced by Princeton University, where he retired in 1994 as Gordon Wu Professor of Chinese Studies, the first academic to be appointed to that chair. His landmark work, published by Cambridge University Press, ranges from antiquity to the People's Republic. Dr. Twitchett conceived of the project with a colleague, John K. Fairbank, of Harvard, then contributed to the writing, guided its progress and edited some of the volumes.
        Before that work, English-language scholarship and historiography of China had focused mainly on the often chaotic events that gave rise to the Middle Kingdom and on the more recent past, stitched together from diplomatic correspondence, travelers' accounts and the like. Dr. Twitchett, with Professor Fairbank and their contributors, filled the gap with a systematic study of the social, economic and political developments that have shaped the country since its formation.
        Denis Crispin Twitchett was born in London and educated at Cambridge, where he received his Ph.D. in 1955. He studied Japanese while serving in the Royal Navy during World War II and worked in Japan before he made Chinese history his life's work.
        He started his academic career as a lecturer in Far Eastern history at London University in 1954, lectured in classical Chinese at Cambridge from 1956 to 1960, and returned to the University of London as a professor of Chinese in 1960. He then taught at Cambridge again from 1968 until 1980, when he was appointed to the newly established Gordon Wu chair at Princeton.
        Dr. Twitchett gained recognition with his early writings about medieval China, particularly its evolution in the Tang era (618-907). His ''Financial Administration Under the Tang Dynasty'' (1970) and ''Perspectives on the Tang'' (1973) were noted for the new insights they offered on that significant period. He also wrote ''The Birth of Chinese Meritocracy: Bureaucrats and Examinations in Tang China'' (1976), ''Printing and Publishing in Medieval China'' (1983), and ''The Writing of Official History under the Tang'' (1992).
        Dr. Twitchett's wife, Umeko Ichikawa Twitchett, died in 1993. His survivors include their sons, Peter and Nicholas, both of Cambridge.
      