
        John McGahern, whose stark depiction of love and despair in repressive rural Ireland made him one of his country's most acclaimed fiction writers, died yesterday in Dublin. He was 71.
        Mr. McGahern died of cancer at the Mater Private Hospital, where he had been admitted earlier in the day, his family said through a hospital spokeswoman.
        Mr. McGahern's six novels and three collections of short stories won prizes from the Irish literary establishment and accolades from his peers. To the novelist Colm Toibin, writing in ''The Penguin Book of Irish Fiction,'' Mr. McGahern had produced ''the most impressive body of work of any Irish writer in the second half of the century.''
        In recent years, Mr. McGahern (pronounced ma-GAH-ern) had become an elder statesmen of Irish letters. Word of his death led many broadcast news reports in Ireland on Thursday afternoon.
        Most of his plots were set in his native Irish Midlands, where farmers scratched out a living and even rocks seemed to grow old. Always heavy and forbidding in the background was the hand of the powerful Roman Catholic Church.
        Because he was an Irish writer, Mr. McGahern was inevitably compared to James Joyce. Because his stories were set in the country, he was compared to Chekhov and Hardy. His style was terse. His novels moved deliberately through their agonies of love and misgiving, always with reference to the dominating Catholic culture and the rigors of wresting existence from the fields and the peat bogs.
        There were no truly happy endings in his fiction. To the questions he posed about the meaning of life, he gave equivocal answers. Some characters stayed in the country and adjusted; others left. Most were nagged by doubt and guilt, caught between the lure of personal fulfillment in the outside world and the pull of family and home. Their Catholic faith often made them feel guilty about their sexuality. Critics said the themes gave his work a universal quality.
        Although he lectured and gave readings of his work at universities in Britain and the United States, Mr. McGahern spent most of his time writing and dabbling at farming at his home in County Leitrim, an economically depressed and socially conservative corner of northwestern Ireland. And though his fiction was melancholy, he maintained a sharp sense of humor. He loved telling offbeat stories, often about other Irish writers, and he welcomed visitors who navigated the torturous country roads to the simple lakeside house that he shared with his wife, Madeline Green, an American.
        He gave few interviews, however. At a writing seminar in 1996 at the State University of New York at Albany, he said: ''Each of us has a private world, and the only difference between the reader and the writer is that the writer has the ability to describe and dramatize that private world. As a writer, I write to see. If I knew how it would end, I wouldn't write. It's a process of discovery.''
        He earned his widest recognition for his fifth novel, ''Amongst Women,'' published in 1990. It was on the short list for the Booker Prize and became the basis of a highly praised BBC miniseries in 1998.
        ''Amongst Women'' tells the tale of Michael Moran, a former I.R.A. hero in the war against the British in 1919-21 that won independence for Ireland, leaving the north a British province. Moran finds that his celebrity fades when he becomes a simple farmer in the Midlands, near the town of Boyle. He isolates himself from his neighbors, devotes his life to his five children and marries a second wife, Rose. Again and again, Mr. McGahern has Daddy, as Moran is called, delving into gloomy existential doubt, even as he leads his family in reciting the rosary every night.
        He drives his oldest son, Luke, away with his household tyranny. He bullies a bright daughter into refusing a university scholarship. Still, his daughters feel that ''beneath all their differences was the belief that the whole house was essentially one.''
        ''Together they were one world and could take on the world. Deprived of this sense they were nothing, scattered, individual things. They would put up with anything in order to have this sense of belonging. They would never let it go. No one could be allowed to walk out easily.''
        As Moran dies, he asks his family harshly, ''Why aren't you praying?'' But when they kneel to pray, the last words of Moran's life are ''Shut up!''
        His mixed feelings of hope and despair echo those of another character, Elizabeth Reegan, in ''The Barracks'' (1962), Mr. McGahern's first novel and, in the view of some critics, his finest. Indeed, many critics regarded ''Amongst Women'' as his best work since ''The Barracks.'' Certainly there are parallels in characters and setting.
        ''The Barracks'' drew on Mr. McGahern's boyhood, set in a live-in police station near Boyle. Mr. McGahern's own father, John, became a police officer after fighting with the I.R.A., and the family lived in police barracks for a time.
        On the novel's first page, the author used a device that became characteristic of his fiction: contrasting darkness and light in the surrounding fields and bog lands, depicting the bleakness of the outside world against the bright fires and shiny teacups of the home, the hopeful faces of children against the brooding tyranny of an unhappy father.
        The stepmother in the household, Elizabeth Reegan, had been jilted by an intellectual dandy, then married an industrious but insensitive and embittered police sergeant. Between them there is affection, sometimes lovemaking, but no agreement on what the good life should be. They scorn the banality of rural existence even as they cling to the small routines and religious rituals of life at home with their children.
        It is a livable life for Elizabeth, until she gets cancer. She despairs and wonders what kind of ''departure'' she will make. ''She'd be as blind with life, as ridiculously human as any other when it came her turn,'' Mr. McGahern writes. ''It was so fantastic, and so miraculous, that it could go in spite of having no known purpose, blind passion carrying it forward in spite of everything.''
        His second novel, ''The Dark'' (1965), brought Mr. McGahern celebrity and notoriety when it was banned by a conservative Irish government, influenced by the Catholic Church. The book describes a boy who agonizes over his masturbating because he also wants to become a priest. One scene suggests sexual advances by a priest. Mr. McGahern lost his elementary school teaching position as a result and went to live in Britain and later Paris.
        Samuel Beckett, in Paris, and other Irish writers offered to campaign for the book, but Mr. McGahern declined, saying, ''When a book is published, it belongs to the reader, and the less the writer has to say about it, the better.''
        Afterward came ''The Leavetaking'' (1974), which portrays a teacher who is fired for marrying a divorced American woman. By then, Mr. McGahern had divorced and was married to Ms. Green, who survives him, as do four sisters. The couple had no children.
        Another novel, ''The Pornographer'' (1979), told the story of a man who is dissatisfied with the casual sexuality of his life. Mr. McGahern's three books of short stories, dealing with the same themes as his novels, also pleased most critics; some compared the stories to Joyce's in ''Dubliners.''
        More than a decade after ''Amongst Women'' brought him international recognition, Mr. McGahern renewed his popularity in 2001 with his final novel, ''That They May Face the Rising Sun,'' published in the United States as ''By the Lake.'' Then came a critically acclaimed account of his life, published last year. Titled ''All Will Be Well: A Memoir,'' it rekindled appreciation for his clean, precise depictions of Irish rural life.
        John McGahern, the eldest of seven children, was born on Nov. 12, 1934, in Dublin. His mother died when he was 10. Though his father and some of his characters were unhappy former I.R.A. guerrillas, he never praised the I.R.A. and said he ''hated nationalism'' of any stripe. Describing his boyhood in the Midlands, near Roscommon and Boyle, he wrote that there were few books in the house. But he discovered literature thanks to a pair of neighbors, whom he described as eccentric Protestant men living in a shabby mansion. He read Shakespeare but preferred ''Treasure Island'' and ''Robinson Crusoe.'' His favorite novelist was Jane Austen
        Mr. McGahern said he was ''not a believer'' and did not go to church. Writing in the London newspaper The Independent in 1995, he said he had been put off by the ''almost total power'' the church held over Ireland of the 1940's and 50's.
        ''The ordinary farming people had to conform to the strict observances,'' he wrote, ''and to pay their dues to the Church from small resources, but outside that they paid it little attention. They went about their sensible pagan lives as they had done for centuries, seeing it as just another of the fictions that they'd been forced to kowtow to, like all the others since the time of the Druids.''
        In one interview, noting Ireland's reputation as a birthplace of great writers, he said the Irish people ''write as badly as everywhere else.''
        ''I don't label myself as an Irish writer,'' he said, ''but there's nothing else I could be. A writer reflects his society by getting one's language right. My only concern is that I get the sentence right and describe my world clearly and deeply.''
        Acknowledging that many readers and critics found his work pessimistic, if not depressing, he offered a joke: ''My favorite optimist,'' he said, ''was an American who jumped off the Empire State Building, and as he passed the 42nd floor, the window washers heard him say, 'So far, so good.' ''
      