
        Bernard H. Siegan, a conservative legal scholar whose unsuccessful nomination to a federal appellate judgeship was one of the most bitterly disputed judicial nominations of the Reagan era, died on Monday in Encinitas, Calif. He was 81 and lived in San Diego.
        The cause was complications of a stroke he had last year, his wife, Shelley, said.
        At his death, Professor Siegan was a distinguished professor of law at the University of San Diego, where he had taught for more than 30 years.
        In early 1987, President Ronald Reagan nominated Professor Siegan to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which comprises nine Western states, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. In July 1988, after nearly a year and a half in which Professor Siegan was publicly denounced by liberals and also by some conservatives, the Senate Judiciary Committee rejected his nomination.
        Professor Siegan was best known for his ardent libertarian views on economic matters, and on property rights in particular. In his many books and articles, he maintained that the Constitution protected what he called the ''economic liberties'' of individuals. The courts, he argued, should return to their pre-New Deal stance of enforcing such liberties.
        Though Professor Siegan had his defenders, some conservatives considered his views extreme, seeing him as a ''judicial activist'' who thought the courts should invalidate much of the economic and social legislation of the modern era.
        Judge Robert H. Bork, whose nomination to the Supreme Court was rejected by the Senate in 1987, had cautioned in a 1985 speech that Professor Siegan's economic ideas could engender ''a massive shift away from democracy and toward judicial rule.''
        Testifying before the Judiciary Committee, Professor Siegan maintained that if appointed, he would uphold the legal precedents set by the Supreme Court, regardless of his personal views.
        On July 14, 1988, the committee rejected Professor Siegan by a vote of 8 to 6, along party lines. Of the 340 judicial nominations made by President Reagan until then, Professor Siegan's was only the second to be defeated in the committee.
        Bernard Herbert Siegan was born in Chicago on July 28, 1924; his undergraduate studies were interrupted by Army service in World War II.
        He earned a law degree from the University of Chicago in 1949 and practiced law in Chicago before joining the University of San Diego School of Law in 1973. From 1979 to 1989, he directed the program in law and economic studies there.
        Professor Siegan's first wife, Sharon Goldberg, died in 1985. In 1995, he married Shelley LeWinter Zifferblatt, a former student. She survives him, as does a stepson, Jon Zifferblatt, of San Diego.
        After his nomination was defeated, Professor Siegan continued teaching and writing. His books include ''Economic Liberties and the Constitution'' (University of Chicago, 1980); ''The Supreme Court's Constitution: An Inquiry Into Judicial Review and Its Impact on Society'' (Transaction Books, 1987); and ''Property Rights: From Magna Carta to the Fourteenth Amendment'' (Transaction, 2001).
      