
        Rajkumar, a child actor who became one of south India's most popular movie stars, with a legion of worshipful fans, died here on Wednesday. He was 77.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, Dr. Ramana Rao, Mr. Rajkumar's personal physician, told The Press Trust of India.
        Born Muthuraju Singanalluru Puttaswamayya, Mr. Rajkumar, also known as Raj Kumar, was the son of an impoverished touring theater actor when he was discovered by a movie producer at the age of 8. He dropped out of school to play minor characters until he got the lead in the 1954 film ''Bedara Kannappa.'' He earned fame and wealth, acting in more than 200 films in the regional language of Kannada. His multitude of fans fondly called him Annavru, meaning elder brother.
        Mr. Rajkumar played lead roles in mythological films, romantic films, family dramas and action films in a career spanning five decades and with remarkable box-office success.
        He never played a villain, and was the epitome of good character not just in his movies but also in real life. He shunned smoking and drinking on screen and off and rigorously practiced yoga, crediting it for his youthful looks.
        On hearing of his death, thousands of Mr. Rajkumar's fans spilled into the streets of Bangalore, India's technology hub. They mourned him by hurling stones at buildings, burning buses and cars and rioting near his home, in the fashionable Sadashivnagar neighborhood, and the police caned some in the crowd.
        Anticipating trouble at the news of his death, shops, offices, movie theaters and malls closed around the city. By the evening rush hour, the normally choked streets were eerily empty.
        Mr. Rajkumar's fan club cut across class lines, but he was particularly well liked by younger people. They stood in line for days in advance to buy tickets to see his films on the day of their release. They also threw money at the movie screen and displayed giant cut-outs of Mr. Rajkumar everywhere.
        When the bandit Koose Muniswamy Veerappan kidnapped him and held him captive deep in the forests in 2000, distressed admirers rioted and burned shops and looted homes for several days, demanding that the government step up efforts to win his release.
        Mr. Rajkumar was freed after 108 days. There were rumors that a large ransom had been paid to his kidnapper, but Mr. Rajkumar never discussed the details. The police killed the bandit four years later.
        In the last few years, Mr. Rajkumar had slowly eased off his acting career and was playing a quieter role as a producer of films.
        He is survived by his wife, Parvathamma, a film producer; three sons, all successful actors in Kannada films; and two daughters.
        Political parties avidly courted the hugely popular Mr. Rajkumar, but he vowed never to enter politics. However, in the 1980's he joined a struggle to officially recognize the Kannada language and that increased his immense popularity.
        So that fans could have a last glimpse of their hero, Mr. Rajkumar's body was moved from the hospital to his home, then displayed in a park, where the crowds became uncontrollable.
        The local government announced that he would receive a state funeral on Thursday, and technology companies said they would close for the day.
        Correction:  April 14, 2006, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Rajkumar, an Indian movie star, referred incorrectly in some copies to the site of his death and to the doctor who said the cause was cardiac arrest. Rajkumar died before his arrival at a hospital in Bangalore, not at the hospital; Dr. Ramana Rao was his personal physician, not a doctor at the hospital.
      