
        Richard Pearlman, a stage director and educator who led one of the country's leading programs for training young professional opera singers, the Chicago Lyric Opera Center for American Artists, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said Susan Mathieson Mayer, a spokeswoman for the opera.
        Taking over the Lyric Opera Center in 1995, Mr. Pearlman helped shape it into a major program. He fostered the careers of dozens of rising singers, including Erin Wall, Nicole Cabell and Matthew Polenzani. And he cast his nets widely in the search for new talent, listening to hundreds of young singers each year.
        ''I want to democratize the audition process as much as I can,'' he said in a telephone interview last fall. ''I don't want to limit myself to people who have the means to go to some fancy music school. I will listen to anyone with a Kellogg's box top.''
        From 1976 to 1995, he was the director of the Eastman Opera Theater at the Eastman School of Music; Renée Fleming was one of his students. His directing credits ranged from Monteverdi's ''Poppea'' to George and Ira Gershwin's ''Reaching for the Moon'' to ''The Who's Tommy.'' Despite giving witty and unusual twists on operas -- adding a boa constrictor to Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' or presenting the opera debut of Madeleine Kahn as Musetta in ''La Bohème'' -- he believed that the director's first loyalty was to the music. ''If you try to go against that,'' he told The Chicago Tribune, ''it never comes out right.''
        Richard Pearlman was born in 1938 in Norwalk, Conn., and grew up in Tucson, Ariz. After receiving a degree in English from Columbia University, he apprenticed with the directors Gian Carlo Menotti, Sir Tyrone Guthrie, Luchino Visconti and Franco Zeffirelli. He made his directing debut as a last-minute replacement for Mr. Zeffirelli in a Chicago Lyric production of ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' in 1961; it also happened to be Joan Sutherland's debut with the company.
        After working as a staff director at the Metropolitan Opera, he was general director for the Opera Society of Washington (now the Washington National Opera) from 1968 to 1970. He was later opera director of the Aspen Music Festival and School and, briefly, the Music Academy of the West.
        He left no immediate survivors.
      