
        Shin Sang Ok, a pioneering film director who said that his life was too unbelievable to be a movie plot, what with his introducing the kiss to North and South Korean cinema, being kidnapped by a movie-loving dictator and turning up in Hollywood to create the ''3 Ninjas'' movies, died Tuesday in Seoul. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of a liver transplant that he received two years ago, his son-in-law, Suh Dong Yeop, told The Associated Press.
        Two of Mr. Shin's films were shown at Cannes, where he was a judge in 1994. He gained some recognition in the United States through showings of his work at the Museum of Modern Art and art-house cinemas, as well as through a broader American release of a horror film modeled on the Japanese Godzilla movies.
        In South Korea, however, he was a major figure of that nation's film industry in the 1950's and 60's, leading some to call him the Orson Welles of South Korea. He directed at least 60 movies in 20 years, introducing techniques like the zoom lens and themes like the plight of women in Korean history. The South Korean government eventually took away his license because he refused to toe its line.
        ''He was a true independent filmmaker who by dint of persistence and vision built up an entire industry influencing filmmaking in southeast Asia,'' Laurence Kardish, senior curator in the department of film and media at MoMA, said in an e-mail message. ''It is said that the Shaw Brothers of Hong Kong began making their action-filled films as a positive response to Shin's work.''
        Mr. Shin's greatest fame in the West came when he and his wife, from whom he was estranged, were kidnapped in 1978 by North Korean agents. When Kim Jong Il, the North Korean dictator, demanded that he make propaganda movies, he refused. After eating grass and bark in prison for five years, he was suddenly released by Mr. Kim, who told him he could make any movies he liked.
        Mr. Shin made seven films before escaping in 1986 during a stopover in Vienna. He and his wife turned up in Reston, Va., where their insights into Mr. Kim's personality, backed up by recordings they had secretly made, were of considerable interest to United States intelligence officers.
        Mr. Shin was born in Chungjin, at the northeastern part of the Korean peninsula, during Japan's colonial rule. He graduated from what is now the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music. He started his career as an assistant production designer on Choi In Kyu's ''Viva Freedom!,'' the first Korean film made after the country achieved independence from Japan.
        He quickly became a prolific director, completing an average of more than two films a year. He also worked as a cinematographer, and in the 1960's produced about 300 movies.
        One of the most famous films he directed was ''The Eunuch'' (1968), which revolves around incarcerated concubines and enslaved castrated men and their excruciating passions. South Korea's first onscreen kiss was in the 1958 film ''Jiokhwa.''
        In 1976 he experienced a very public, scandal-flecked divorce from the woman he married in 1953, the actress Choi Eun Hee. (They later remarried.) He soon ran afoul of the frequently repressive government of Gen. Park Chung Hee, and his studio was closed.
        In 1978 Ms. Choi was abducted by North Korea, and, when Mr. Shin went looking for her, he was kidnapped too. Mr. Shin, who in addition to turning down Mr. Kim's initial invitation to make movies glorifying Communism, further angered the leader by trying to escape.
        After five years in prison, the couple, neither of whom had known the other was alive, were released.
        In an interview with The Seoul Times in 2002, Mr. Shin said there was less censorship than commonly believed.
        He said he introduced the word love and the first kiss to North Korean movies. He also said that he made the best movie of his career in the north, ''Runaway,'' the tragic story of a wandering Korean family coping with Japanese oppression in 1920's Manchuria. His ''Pulgasari,'' named for a Godzilla lookalike who likes to eat iron, has become a cult favorite.
        In addition to enjoying relative artistic freedom in North Korea, the couple lived in a mansion and drove a Mercedes, but Mr. Shin said he could not live happily in a place where most people suffered. He denied North Korean charges that he stole $3 million that he had been advanced to make a film on Genghis Khan.
        Mr. Shin and his wife moved to Los Angeles in 1989 after living under the protection of the Central Intelligence Agency for three years. He said that he got the idea for his humorous ''3 Ninjas'' movies, done for Disney, by repeatedly watching ''Home Alone'' and trying to think of a way to do something similar that would involve the martial arts.
        He produced, directed or wrote ''3 Ninjas Knuckle Up,'' ''3 Ninjas Kick Back'' and ''3 Ninjas: High Noon at Mega Mountain,'' all under the pseudonym Simon Sheen. He returned to South Korea in 1994 and continued to produce movies there.
        Mr. Shin is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters.
      