
        Frank Gibney, a noted writer on Asian affairs who was an authority on the culture and business practices of postwar Japan, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was heart failure, his son James said.
        Until shortly before his death, Mr. Gibney was president of the Pacific Basin Institute at Pomona College, where he was also a professor of politics.
        A former foreign correspondent for Time magazine, Mr. Gibney wrote nearly a dozen books, among them ''Five Gentlemen of Japan: The Portrait of a Nation's Character'' (Farrar, Straus & Young, 1953); ''Japan, the Fragile Superpower'' (Norton, 1975); and ''The Pacific Century: America and Asia in a Changing World'' (Scribner's, 1992).
        Mr. Gibney also oversaw the publication of the Encyclopaedia Britannica in Chinese, Japanese and Korean editions, a task that required him to be a scholar, editor and diplomat in equal measure.
        Frank Bray Gibney was born on Sept. 21, 1924, in Scranton, Pa., and was reared in New York City. His studies at Yale were interrupted by World War II, and he was awarded a bachelor's degree in classics in absentia in 1945.
        In the war, Mr. Gibney studied at the Navy's Japanese Language School at the University of Colorado. He served in the Pacific as an intelligence officer, and was stationed in Japan during the postwar occupation by the United States.
        After joining Time magazine in 1947, Mr. Gibney reported from Europe and Asia, where he covered the Korean War. He was later a senior editor at Newsweek and a staff writer for Life magazine. For several years in the early 1960's, he was the publisher of Show, an arts magazine in New York.
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. Gibney joined Britannica as the company's president in Japan, and he later became president of a joint venture between the encyclopedia and the Tokyo Broadcasting System. He went on to become a vice chairman of Britannica's editorial board.
        At Britannica, one of Mr. Gibney's most daunting tasks was to publish a Chinese edition, released in 1986. A six-year undertaking, it ran 10 volumes and contained newly commissioned articles by Chinese scholars that dealt, however gingerly, with sensitive subjects like Stalin, the Korean War and Taiwan.
        Among Mr. Gibney's tasks, as The Associated Press reported in 1986, was excising a spate of adjectives from the articles to heighten their objectivity.
        Mr. Gibney's first marriage, to Harriet Harvey, ended in divorce, as did his second, to Harriet Suydam. He is survived by his third wife, the former Hiroko Doi; by seven children: Alex, of Summit, N.J.; Margot, of Oakland, Calif.; Frank Jr., of Brooklyn; James, of Manhattan, the deputy editor of the Op-Ed Page of The New York Times; Thomas, of Placerville, Calif.; and Elise and Josephine, both of Los Angeles; and seven grandchildren.
        His other books include ''The Khrushchev Pattern'' (Duell, Sloan & Pearce, 1960) and ''Korea's Quiet Revolution: From Garrison State to Democracy'' (Walker & Company, 1992). Mr. Gibney also edited an English-language edition of the papers of Oleg Penkovsky, a Soviet official executed in 1963 for spying for the West. The papers were published by Doubleday in 1965.
      