
        Gwin J. Kolb, a University of Chicago scholar who passed his singular passion for the works of Samuel Johnson on to several generations of literature buffs, died on April 3 in Chicago. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son, Jack Kolb, said.
        Considered a pre-eminent expert on Johnson, the 18th-century lexicographer, poet, biographer and essayist, Professor Kolb spent his entire career at the University of Chicago. He earned his master's and doctoral degrees there and rose from instructor to professor to chairman of the English department, a position he held from 1963 to 1972. He was also the co-editor of the university's journal Modern Philology.
        His incisive and precise work earned him an international reputation and led him to be considered ''the leading authority in the world on the subject'' of Johnson, said Robert DeMaria Jr., a professor of English at Vassar College.
        Explaining what drew Professor Kolb to Johnson, Paul Ruxin, a corporate lawyer in Chicago and collector of Johnson, said there were parallels in their lives.
        ''Johnson was a poor country boy who went to London and conquered not only literary society but British society of the 18th century at the highest levels without ever becoming one of them,'' he said.
        ''It was a combination of his intellectual superiority to almost anyone literary people know about and his human qualities that make Samuel Johnson so appealing and especially to someone like Gwin, whose own background was humble and who also became a great scholar.''
        Drawn to Johnson while still in high school in Durant, Miss., Professor Kolb wrote or edited nine books, six of them on Johnson. The first one, published in 1955, was ''Dr. Johnson's Dictionary,'' a collaboration with the linguist James Sledd. It examined Johnson's groundbreaking two-volume dictionary, which illustrated the meanings of words through literary quotations and injected humor into some of its definitions.
        Professor Kolb was known as a textual editor rather than a theoretical one. He was a member of the general editorial committee of the Yale Edition of the Works of Samuel Johnson for more than 30 years and edited two of its 18 volumes.
        One, published in 1990, was ''Samuel Johnson's Rasselas and Other Tales,'' an authoritative history of the novel ''Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia.'' The other, edited with Professor DeMaria, was ''Johnson on the English Language,'' published last year. A collection of Johnson's statements on the language, it revealed the underpinnings of his approach to lexicography.
        ''He was the adviser and sometimes midwife to many scholarly projects, and no scholar of his generation was more generous,'' said Bruce Redford, a professor at Boston University, who served on the faculty at Chicago with Professor Kolb from 1981 to 1998. ''That came at a great cost to his own scholarship. He could have written and edited much more had he not helped others to realize their gifts.''
        Professor Kolb was born on Nov. 2, 1919, in Aberdeen, Miss., the son of Roy Kolb, a fireman and engineer for the Illinois Central Railroad, and Dean Kolb. He lived nearly all his life in Chicago but never lost his courtly Southern ways.
        He met his wife, the former Ruth Godbold, at Millsaps College, from which he graduated in 1941, when he graded her papers. After college, he enlisted in the Navy, serving in the North African and Pacific campaigns in World War II before surgery for appendicitis sent him home.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years; his son, a professor of English at the University of California, Los Angeles; his daughter, Alma Dean Kolb of Kenilworth, Ill., an editor at the University of Chicago Press; and two grandchildren.
      