
        Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a provocative scholar of Judaism whose contrarian religious and political views and dedication to civil rights found prolific expression in books, articles and essays, died yesterday. He was 84 and lived in Englewood, N.J.
        The cause was complications of heart failure, said Eli Epstein, a friend. Mr. Epstein said Rabbi Hertzberg died en route to Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J.
        Rabbi Hertzberg seemed to savor taking on partisans from opposite sides of the same issue. After Israel's victory in the Six-Day War of 1967, for example, he rankled many Jews by proposing the creation of a Palestinian state. Yet when the Rev. Daniel J. Berrigan, the Jesuit antiwar activist, accused Israel of ''militarism'' and ''domestic repressions'' of Palestinians, saying they echoed those of the Nazis, Rabbi Hertzberg condemned him for ''simplistic moralizing.''
        ''Let us call this by its right name: old-fashioned theological anti-Semitism,'' he wrote in an article.
        As president of the American Jewish Congress from 1972 to 1978 and vice president of the World Jewish Congress from 1975 to 1991, Rabbi Hertzberg was in the forefront of efforts to protect the civil rights of Jews. Marc D. Stern, who is assistant executive director of the American organization today, said Rabbi Hertzberg ''reveled in his iconoclasm.''
        ''There's no question he was a man who created debate, in a healthy sense,'' Mr. Stern said. ''He was sufficiently independent that he did not need other people's approval before he would take a position. Yet one of the dangers of being an independent thinker is you develop the habit of being counter-cultural.''
        Rabbi Hertzberg even tweaked those whose programs for fortifying Jewish identity were grounded in Israel and the Holocaust. He called the Holocaust Museum in Washington ''the national cathedral of American Jewry's Jewishness.'' As someone whose European relatives had died at the Nazis' hands, he said he was trying to make the point that Jewish leaders needed to find more cerebral and spiritual programs for retaining the allegiance of believers. He urged Jews not to become reclusive and insular in the aftermath of the Holocaust but to open themselves to the pain of others.
        His approach to any issue was consistently liberal, said Mr. Epstein, a businessman, adding, ''But he came at it from his deep Jewishness and from his obsession with the Holocaust.''
        The rabbi was also an early advocate of full equality for American blacks and an ally in the civil rights movement. He was among the prominent participants in the March on Washington in 1963, during which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his ''I Have a Dream'' speech at the Lincoln Memorial.
        Rabbi Hertzberg was the author of a dozen books, several of which are regarded as important contributions to Jewish thought and history. In one, ''The French Enlightenment and the Jews: The Origins of Modern Anti-Semitism'' (1968), he argued that the works of Voltaire and other 18th-century philosophers betrayed a pervasive antagonism to Jews and to their existence as a distinct people.
        Rabbi Hertzberg was a compactly built man who spoke in stately sentences but who also flashed an impish, sometimes self-deprecating wit. He was unusual in combining a quiet life of scholarship with an outspoken advocacy of the causes he held dear, finding platforms in the American and World Jewish Congresses of the 70's and 80's. But Mr. Stern said that Rabbi Hertzberg would probably not have succeeded in the organizational world of the 21st century, which requires the leaders of these groups to show more political finesse in what they say. Rabbi Hertzberg could not resist the arena of combat. He once said, ''A rabbi should be where the real issues of society are, not where the safe platitudes are to be preached.''
        He followed that maxim throughout his career. In the early 1960's he promoted and participated in a Catholic-Jewish dialogue established during the papacy of John XXIII. Among other issues, he later took on the response of the Roman Catholic Church to the Nazi genocide against Europe's Jews. In 1971, Rabbi Hertzberg was chairman of the first Jewish delegation to meet formally on the issue with the Vatican. He was described as tenacious in pressing the church to acknowledge that it had remained silent while Jews were murdered and to release documents that might help clear up the accountability of Pope Pius XII.
        Rabbi Hertzberg was a congregational rabbi for most of his career, leading Temple Emanu-El, a Conservative synagogue in Englewood, until he became its rabbi emeritus in 1985. There, too, he could not avoid goading his flock, accusing congregants in the synagogue bulletin in 1971 of letting the synagogue become peripheral in their lives or using it as a ''personal decoration that is convenient.''
        Arthur Hertzberg was born on June 9, 1921, in southeastern Poland, the first of five children of an Orthodox rabbinic scholar. The family came to the United States when he was 5, living in Youngstown, Pa., and then Baltimore, where the elder Hertzberg took over a congregation.
        In his youth, Rabbi Hertzberg, whose ancestors were prominent rabbis within the Belz Hasidim, prepared himself for a life as an Orthodox rabbi, devoting himself to Talmudic studies. But by his teenage years he was also immersing himself in secular knowledge. At Johns Hopkins University, he majored in history and Oriental languages. By then, as he wrote in Midstream, a journal devoted to Jewish affairs, he had decided to ''locate myself'' within ''Jewish modernity.''
        He studied at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York, the fountainhead of the Conservative movement, and was influenced by Mordecai Kaplan, the founder of Reconstructionist Judaism, who stressed that Judaism was an evolving civilization in which notions of God, too, could evolve with the expansion of human knowledge. The seminary ordained him in 1943. It was a time when the Jews of Europe were being slaughtered, and he harbored thoughts of returning to Poland to study. But as he wrote in his Midstream essay, ''I could never go home again'' because ''home would at best be a semi-habitable ruin.'' So he devoted himself intellectually to the creation of a Jewish state.
        He started out as a Hillel chapter director at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, then took pulpits in Philadelphia and Nashville. In the early 1950's he had a two-year tour as a United States Air Force chaplain based in Britain, where he met his wife, the former Phyllis Cannon, a British bibliographer. After his return to the United States, he was appointed to Temple Emanu-El in 1956. But he continued to pursue his scholarship, completing a doctorate in history at Columbia University and teaching there and eventually at Rutgers, Princeton, Dartmouth and Hebrew University in Jerusalem. After 1991, he was Bronfman Visiting Professor of the Humanities at New York University.
        His scholarly reputation was built on a steady outpouring of books and articles for Commentary, Commonweal, The National Catholic Reporter, The New York Times and other publications. As editor of a 1959 collection of essays titled ''The Zionist Idea: A Historical Analysis and Reader,'' he contributed a much-admired introduction on the intellectual history of the Zionist movement. Yet despite his strong Zionist views, he stood out as a habitual and often idiosyncratic critic of Israeli policies. In an op-ed article in The Times in 2003, he urged the Bush administration to deduct the cost of maintaining Jewish settlements in the West Bank and Gaza from the annual pot of American aid.
        All his writing seemed to strike a bold, gadfly note, and he was more than willing to take on his fellow rabbis. In 1996, in Midstream, he lamented that Jews were praying in synagogues in such sparse numbers that the congregational rabbi was becoming more an ''institutional executive'' and ''entertainer'' than a spiritual leader.
        In addition to his wife, Rabbi Hertzberg is survived by two daughters, Dr. Linda Beth and Susan Riva; two brothers, Rabbi Isaiah and Rabbi Joshua; and a sister, Eve Rosenfeld.
        Correction:  April 20, 2006, Thursday  An obituary yesterday and in late editions on Tuesday about Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a religion scholar and civil rights advocate, gave an erroneous identification in some copies for the town where he and his family first lived when they moved to the United States from Poland. It was Youngstown, Ohio, not Youngstown, Pa.
      