
        Richard Eckersley, an award-winning graphic designer who introduced unconventional typography to staid-looking university-press books, died on Sunday at his home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 65.
        The cause is not yet known, although he had been in failing health for more than a year, said his son, Sam, a theater poster designer in New York and a member of the third generation of Eckersleys to practice graphic design.
        The elder Mr. Eckersley had been the senior designer at the University of Nebraska Press since 1981, producing hundreds of covers, jackets, interior layouts and promotional posters for scholarly -- often abstract -- books on modernist and postmodernist theory and criticism, including Louis Aragon's ''Treatise on Style.''
        Most of Mr. Eckersley's book designs, the design historian Roy R. Behrens said in a 2002 Print Magazine article, ''are characterized by typographic subtlety and restraint.''
        A stickler for the finer points of spacing and arranging type, Mr. Eckersley turned out work that was resolutely functional. Yet through consistently meticulous compositions and a preference for bright, flat color, matte paper and minimal ornament, he created a visual identity for the University of Nebraska Press, which often received honors in book shows and design competitions.
        In 1989, however, Mr. Eckersley made a radical departure from his signature restraint, shaking up the field with his design for Avital Ronell's ''Telephone Book: Technology, Schizophrenia, Electric Speech,'' an unorthodox study of Jacques Derrida, Martin Heidegger and the philosophy of deconstruction. This was the first book Mr. Eckersley designed on the computer, using new page-making software programs to interpret the author's complex postmodern ideas typographically.
        Although the stark black-and-white cover of this long vertical book was rather quiet, he radically dislodged the interior text from conventional settings, and the book's layout sometimes upstages the text by deliberately impeding the act of reading, which is just what Ms. Ronell wanted. Throughout the book there are unexplained gaps and dislocations between sentences and paragraphs, forcing the reader to work at reading. On one page is a mirror image of the page that faces it. On another, snakelike trails of space that come from careless word spacing (called rivers) are intentionally employed. Some words are blurred to the point of being indecipherable; one line runs into another because of the exaggerated use of negative line-spacing.
        Though some adventurous graphic designers were experimenting at the time with idiosyncratic computer type design, this was first attempt to apply a ''deconstructivist style'' to a serious book.
        Many of the same methods can be found earlier and later in Mr. Eckersley's layouts for Derrida's ''Glas'' (1986) and its companion volume ''Glassary'' (1986); and, to some extent, they are revisited in his designs for Warren F. Motte Jr.'s ''Questioning Edmond Jabès'' (1990), Derrida's ''Cinders'' (1991), Blaise Cendrars's ''Modernities and Other Writings'' (1992), Eyal Amiran and John Unsworth's ''Essays in Postmodern Culture'' (1994), and L. C. Breunig's ''Cubist Poets in Paris'' (1995).
        Among his design games, Mr. Eckersley regularly toyed with routine copyright pages by transforming them into typographic pictures suggesting the contents of the books.
        Richard Hilton Eckersley was born on Feb. 20, 1941, in Lancashire, England. His father, Tom Eckersley, a celebrated poster designer during World War II, was head of the graphic design department at the London College of Printing. After attending Trinity College in Dublin, where he studied English and Italian literature, Richard and his wife, Dika, studied design. His brothers, Anthony and Paul, also became graphic designers.
        After graduating, Mr. Eckersley began his design career as a junior at the London firm of Lund Humphries, the publisher of Typographica magazine and the Penrose Annual, where he worked on books and catalogs. Later he joined the state-sponsored Kilkenny Design Workshops in Ireland. After six years there, he took a one-year teaching position at the Tyler School of Art in Pennsylvania. In 1981 he started his job at the University of Nebraska Press.
        Mr. Eckersley won the Carl Herzog Prize for book design in 1994; many of his works were featured in exhibitions and museum collections, including 11 examples of book design in the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York. In 1999 he was named royal designer for industry by the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce, an honor his father had won many years earlier.
        One of his larger projects at the University of Nebraska Press was the 13 volumes (completed over a span of 15 years) of ''The Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.'' At his death he was working on ''The Collected Letters of Henry James.''
        In addition to his wife and son, he is survived by two daughters, Nell, of Brooklyn, and Camilla, of Seattle.
        His passion for books derived from Mr. Eckersley's paternal grandfather, a Methodist minister, who restricted all activities but reading on the Sabbath.
        Mr. Eckersley once recalled that only after he had washed his hands would the books be placed ceremoniously in front of him. ''I was taught to open the covers gently and to turn the pages by their top corners,'' he remembered. And throughout his career he cared for the printed page as his grandfather had instructed.
      