
        Dr. Lynn A. Smaha, an interventional cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association who drew attention to behavioral factors in the prevention of heart disease, died on April 14 at his home in Penn Yan, N.Y. He was 63.
        The cause was a heart attack. Dr. Smaha was a runner and had been exercising before he collapsed, his family said.
        As president of the heart association from 1999 to 2000, he acknowledged the technological advances in heart treatments while warning of the human factors that continued to undermine them.
        At a national conference on cardiovascular disease held in Atlanta in 2000, Dr. Smaha (pronounced SMAH-hah) said that medication and exercise could help control high blood pressure, obesity and other risk factors, but ''our ability as a society to effectively apply what we know works against heart disease is abysmal.''
        Dr. Smaha added, ''We have the treatments; we're just not applying them.''
        In the same year, he warned of the risks of smoking marijuana, after a study found that middle-aged users experienced a rapid jump in heart rate and a fivefold increase in their risk for a heart attack. The study was conducted by researchers at Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
        After stepping down from his role at the heart association, Dr. Smaha continued to be an advocate for more active patient involvement in heart therapy. He practiced cardiology with the Guthrie Clinic, a group practice, in Sayre, Pa.
        Lynn Allan Smaha was born in Marshalltown, Iowa. He attended Iowa State before earning his master's and medical degrees from the University of Iowa. In 1971, he also received a doctorate in anatomy from the University of Iowa.
        Dr. Smaha joined the Guthrie Clinic in 1978 and served as the clinic's president from 1990 to 1998. He was president of Robert Packer Hospital, also in Sayre, from 1987 to 1989. Dr. Smaha also taught at Cornell University and at Hahnemann University's medical school.
        The American Heart Association honored him with its distinguished service award in 2001.
        Dr. Smaha is survived by his wife of 29 years, Angie. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by three daughters, Nicole, of Philadelphia; Tonya, of Marshalltown; and Heather, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; by a brother, Mark, of Poulsbo, Wash.; and by two stepsons, Scott Olmstead of Buffalo and Bryan Olmstead of Albany.
      