
        The Rev. Seymour St. John, who as headmaster of the Choate School steered it through turbulent changes in the 1960's and early 70's, including its merger with Rosemary Hall in 1971, died on Monday at his home on Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 94.
        His wife, Marie, said he died in his sleep.
        Born on the Choate campus in Wallingford, Conn., he seemed to have the school in his genes; his father, George St. John, was headmaster from 1908 to 1947.
        In 1947, after a two-year search, he was chosen to succeed his father, and he served as headmaster for 26 years. Though some outsiders derided ''the St. John dynasty,'' there was widespread agreement in the Choate community that Seymour St. John was the best-qualified candidate.
        ''The St. John family occupied 68 of the 110 years of the school's history, and I know of no other school with that length of service by a single family,'' Edward Shanahan, the current headmaster, said. ''Seymour was an intellectual, an athlete and well respected by the faculty.''
        His tenure coincided with a time of racial, sexual and economic diversification for boys' boarding schools like Choate, until then a bastion of privilege and exclusivity.
        But as co-education came to prep schools and Ivy League colleges, Mr. St. John became a strong supporter of a merger with Rosemary Hall, a girls' school that had been founded in Wallingford by a member of the Choate family and had been moved to Greenwich, Conn.
        ''The merger demanded an enormous expenditure of resources by Choate because the building of a new campus was to occur within the footprints of its property,'' Dr. Shanahan said. ''Seymour was central to the decision to expand those resources.''
        At first the schools had an arrangement in which each maintained its own board, faculty and administration, but by 1978, they became one fully coeducational institution.
        After stepping down, Mr. St. John divided his time between Weekapaug, R.I., and Jupiter Island, becoming assistant to the chaplain at Christ Memorial Chapel on Jupiter Island and commodore of the Hobe Sound Yacht Club.
        Seymour St. John was born on Feb. 28, 1912. He graduated from Choate in 1931 and from Yale as Phi Beta Kappa in 1935. (An uncle, Charles Seymour, became president of Yale two years later.)
        He returned to Choate to teach French and German and coach athletics, leaving to enter the Episcopal Theological Seminary in Alexandria, Va., where he was ordained in 1942. During World War II, he served in Europe as a lieutenant commander in the Naval Reserve.
        Mr. St. John's first wife, the former Margaret Spencer, to whom he was married for 50 years, died in 1986. In addition to his second wife, Marie, known as Mazie, whom he married in 1989, he is survived by a son, Gordon W., of Lavonia, Mich.; a daughter, Margaret, of Tucson; five grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; a stepson, Frederick Race of Deerfield Beach, Fla.; two stepdaughters, Margaret Race of Norfolk, Conn., and Marie Race Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; and seven step-grandchildren. Another stepdaughter, Laura Race, died in 1998.
      