
        Eberhardt Rechtin, an electrical engineer and telecommunications expert who helped design the network of earthbound antennas that NASA uses to track radio signals emanating from space, died on April 14 in Torrance, Calif. He was 80.
        His death was confirmed by his family, which did not announce the cause.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Rechtin led a team of scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., that sought to create a means for recording signals arriving from throughout the solar system. The result, the Deep Space Network, became operational in the early 1960's and made it possible to transmit images in real time when the Apollo mission made its lunar landing in 1969.
        The network operates large dish antennas at sites in California, Spain and Australia so that signals can be received regardless of Earth's rotation. The antennas were used to make radar and radio astronomical observations and to track satellites and planetary explorers.
        Solomon W. Golomb, a professor of mathematics and electrical engineering at the University of Southern California, said Dr. Rechtin was ''the architect of the network and played a key role in conceiving and implementing it.'' Dr. Golomb also contributed to the project.
        The project was a technical success and had immediate intelligence applications in tracking spy satellites. In 1967, Dr. Rechtin joined the Department of Defense as director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, known as Darpa, where much of his work was classified. He was an assistant secretary of defense for telecommunications from 1972 to 1973.
        Dr. Rechtin was later chief engineer for Hewlett-Packard. He was also a contractor for the Air Force as president and chief executive of the Aerospace Corporation of El Segundo, Calif.
        In 1987, Dr. Rechtin was named a professor of engineering at the University of Southern California, where he was an early exponent of systems architecture, a method for solving engineering problems found in the aerospace, telecommunications and automotive industries. He founded the university's program in systems architecture and engineering.
        His influential book ''Systems Architecting: Creating and Building Complex Systems'' (1991) was ''an engineering text without equations that looked at the expectations for a product's performance, its materials and their cost, and the necessary balance between them,'' said F. Stan Settles, a professor of astronautics and industrial and systems engineering at the university.
        The son of a naval architect, Eberhardt Rechtin was born on Jan. 16, 1926, in Orange, N.J. He received his undergraduate degree and a doctorate in electrical engineering from the California Institute of Technology.
        He retired in 1994.
        Dr. Rechtin is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Deedee Denebrink. The couple lived in Rolling Hills Estates, Calif. He is also survived by a son, Mark, of the San Pedro section of Los Angeles; four daughters, Andrea Rechtin of Albany, Calif.; Erica Bauermeister of Seattle; Julie Rechtin of Adin, Calif.; and Nina Meierding of Ventura, Calif.; a sister, Joan Lincoln of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; and four grandchildren.
      