
        Eldon Dedini, a cartoonist who concocted a mythical world of satyrs and nymphs for Playboy and another of quirky, sophisticated wit for The New Yorker, died Thursday at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, his son, Giulio, said.
        Mr. Dedini did around 1,200 cartoons for Playboy and 630 for The New Yorker in a career that also included Disney cartoons, ads for broccoli and 13 elegant posters for the annual Pebble Beach Concours d' Elegance, a celebrated antique car show. He was proudest of writing gags, saying that drawing was the easy part.
        ''The gag is the whole secret of cartooning,'' he said in an interview last year with The Monterey County Herald. ''Style alone will never sell a bum joke. So you can draw. A million people can draw. The question is, are you funny?''
        But Lee Lorenz, a cartoonist and a former cartoon editor of The New Yorker, said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Dedini's artwork was equally noteworthy. He said Mr. Dedini drew with such richness that his black-and-white drawings almost seemed to be in color, and noted intriguing detours into Surrealism.
        ''He always made everything seem so easy,'' Mr. Lorenz said.
        Mr. Dedini's Playboy cartoons helped establish the magazine's image in the 1960's, from takeoffs on classic Japanese erotica to urban hipsters. His sexually brash satyrs in joyful pursuit of astoundingly proportioned, equally lusty nymphs became as much a Playboy trademark as lascivious advice columns.
        Eldon Lawrence Dedini was born in King City, Calif., on June 29, 1921. His son said that at 5 he drew a strikingly realistic picture of a train from memory. He did cartoons for two local newspapers without pay to gain experience.
        While at Salinas Junior College, now Hartnell College, he sold his first cartoon to Esquire. He graduated from the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles, where he meet Virginia Conroy, whom he married in 1944.
        In addition to her and his son, who lives in San Luis Obispo, Calif., Mr. Dedini is survived by his brother, Delwin, of Altadena, Calif.
        Eldon Dedini's first job was as an artist at Universal Studios. He moved to Disney, where he worked with writers on films that included ''Mickey and the Beanstalk.''
        He joined Esquire in 1946 and stayed with the magazine until 1950, when he moved to The New Yorker. He added Playboy to the New Yorker job in 1960.
        He began drawing at 5 a.m. and every three weeks submitted 25 preliminary cartoons to Playboy and 25 different ones to The New Yorker. Mr. Dedini, who wrote and illustrated two books and illustrated others, continued selling cartoons until early last year.
        His distinctively wry approach was suggested in one of his hundreds of New Yorker cartoons: two mice are conversing as they enter a crowded room. ''Oh, Lord, not another wine-and-cheese party,'' one groans.
      