
        Tom Ferguson, who spent his life as a physician persuading people to take the reins of their own health care and to use the Internet as a powerful tool in that quest, died on April 14 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 62.
        He died at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences while being treated for multiple myeloma, his wife, Meredith Dreiss, said.
        A graduate of the Yale University School of Medicine, Dr. Ferguson straddled the worlds of mainstream and alternative medicine, arguing not that patients ignore the dictates of medicine but that they understand them and explore all avenues of prevention and treatment.
        He urged patients to educate themselves and share knowledge with one another, and urged doctors to collaborate with patients rather than command them. Predicting the Internet's potential for disseminating medical information long before it became a familiar conduit, he was an early proponent of its use, terming laymen who did so ''e-patients.''
        A prolific writer and speaker, Dr. Ferguson was the health and medical editor for the Whole Earth Catalog, the voluminous compendium of goods and ideas that unexpectedly became a best seller in the late 1960's and 1970's. He also became known for a journal he established called Medical Self Care and was its editor from 1975 to 1989. In 1998, he became editor and publisher of a newsletter called The Ferguson Report: The Newsletter of Consumer Health Informatics and Online Health.
        In addition, he was author or co-author of a dozen books, including ''The No-Nag, No-Guilt, Do-It-Your-Own-Way Guide to Quitting Smoking,'' published by Ballantine, and ''Health Online: How to Find Health Information, Support Groups and Self Help Communities in Cyberspace,'' published by Addison Wesley.
        Among Dr. Ferguson's recent positions were senior associate at the Center for Clinical Computing, a research institution associated with the Harvard Medical School; adjunct associate professor of health informatics at the University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston; and adjunct faculty member at the University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Center.
        He was also a senior research fellow at the Pew Internet and American Life Project, where he specialized in reports on how people use the Internet to obtain health information.
        He never had a private medical practice, telling his wife, ''I've saved hundreds of lives by not practicing clinical medicine.''
        Dr. Ferguson began fostering self-education in health while still a student at the Yale medical school, from which he graduated in 1977. Going into kindergarten and first-grade classrooms in New Haven elementary schools, he asked children what they wanted to know and taught them to listen to their own heartbeats, take their own blood pressure and learn about conditions they would experience, like the common cold.
        Thomas William Ferguson was born on July 8, 1943, in Ross, Calif., to Helen and Wallace Ferguson. He grew up in Coos Bay, Ore., and did his undergraduate work at Reed College in Portland, Ore. He received a master's degree in creative writing from San Francisco State University before pursuing medical studies.
        In addition to his wife, of Austin, Tex., he is survived by a stepdaughter, Adrienne Dreiss of Manhattan; his mother, Helen Williams Ferguson of Coos Bay; a brother, Fergus Mclean of Eugene, Ore.; and a sister, Kirpal Kaur Khalsa of Espanola, N.M.
        When he became ill 15 years ago, Dr. Ferguson began applying the principles he had fostered to himself.
        ''Being a doctor, he was ahead of the game,'' Ms. Dreiss said. ''He kept with the traditional party line and did what doctors told him he should do but tweaked their advice in his own way. He read widely, worked out his own doses and was not afraid to experiment; when he heard about a clinical trial involving thalidomide, he called the drug company and told them he wanted to be in on it. He lived far longer than most people with this disease do.''
      