
        Grady McWhiney, a historian who called his fellow Southerners ''crackers'' in influential books and articles, then explained that this was a compliment to the glorious Celtic heritage he said they shared, died on April 18 at his home in Abilene, Tex. He was 77.
        Causes included cancer and heart and Alzheimer's diseases, said Donald S. Frazier, president and chief executive of the Grady McWhiney Research Foundation.
        ''It's just a question of which one broke the tape,'' said Dr. Frazier, who shared with Dr. McWhiney, his former professor, a penchant for storytelling on porches, bourbon and endless analyses of the Civil War.
        Dr. McWhiney (pronounced like ''whinny'') was also a respected judge of fiddling contests, but his major contribution was in putting forth the idea that Southerners descend from the wild Celtic tribes of Scotland, Ireland and Wales. He contrasted Celts and Southerners with the English and Yankees.
        His ''Cracker Culture: Celtic Ways in the Old South'' (University of Alabama, 1988) most fully expressed his theory. He traced ''cracker'' to the Gaelic word craic -- still used in Ireland and anglicized in spelling to ''crack'' -- and said it meant ''entertaining conversation.'' (Folk etymology had had it that cracker came from cracking or pounding corn, or using whips to drive cattle.)
        Celts and Southerners, in Dr. McWhiney's view, are pastoral groups with a taste for gambling, drinking, ''raucous music,'' dancing, hunting, fishing and horse and dog racing. They are lazier than the English and Northerners and cling to an easily offended sense of honor, naturally linked to ''a propensity to violence.''
        These not obviously flattering characterizations have been taken as praise by not a few Southerners, who see more romance in a heritage involving Scottish kings than in one born on Tobacco Road. Some successfully petitioned the Scottish Tartan Authority to approve a tartan based on the Confederate flag.
        Dr. McWhiney is seen by some as the godfather of what has come to be called the neo-Confederate movement, whose members urge the South to secede once more. The League of the South, which the Southern Poverty Law Center called a hate group, is headed by Michael Hill, a former student of Dr. McWhiney's, and is a very visible part of the movement.
        In 1994, Dr. McWhiney helped found the league and was a director for a few years, but resigned, complaining that it had been taken over by ''the dirty fingernail crowd,'' Dr. Frazier said.
        Dr. McWhiney contributed to 14 books and wrote scores of articles for many peer-reviewed professional journals. Almost all his writings concerned the South. His love for the region was further evident in his passion for bluegrass music and old Southernisms, like the use of ''dinner'' for ''lunch.''
        In 1990, he countered animal rights activists who said pigs' squeals at characteristically Southern greased-pig contests proved that the animals were suffering. ''I think pigs make a lot more out of it when they are caught than they need to,'' he said.
        Grady McWhiney was born July 15, 1928, in Shreveport, La., and enlisted in the Marines after graduating from high school there.
        He graduated from Centenary College in Shreveport and earned his master's degree in history from Louisiana State University and his doctorate from Columbia.
        Over more than 40 years of teaching, at colleges including Texas Christian University, McMurry University in Abilene and others, he spent the longest time at the University of Alabama.
        Dr. Frazier said Dr. McWhiney had an epiphany when visiting Ireland and Scotland in the late 1970's, finding them inexplicably familiar. He noted names on gravestones, then found the same ones in the American South. Wider statistical analysis indicated that Scottish surnames were twice as common in the South as in the North.
        Dr. McWhiney test-drove his Celtic thesis in articles, particularly one written in 1980 in The Journal of Southern History with Forrest McDonald. He developed it in a book he published in 1982 with Perry D. Jamieson, ''Attack and Die: Civil War Military Tactics and the Southern Heritage.''
        This dwelt on how ferocity trumped good sense among rebel forces in battles like Gettysburg, much in the manner of the Scots' doomed sallies against the entrenched English at Culloden in 1746.
        ''Southerners lost the Civil War because they were too Celtic,'' the authors wrote, ''and their opponents were too English.''
        These ideas did not merely strike a responsive chord with some Nascar- and bass-boat-loving Southerners; they became enshrined in the respected Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, for whose ''Ethnic Life'' section Dr. McWhiney wrote articles.
        Critics have suggested he misstated the nature of the divisions between Celts and the English and mischaracterized the South's supposed homogeneity. Writing in The Journal of Southern History in 1989, Michael P. Johnson marveled that the ''cracker'' book had no index entry for ''malarkey.''
        Dr. McWhiney's wife, the former Sue B. Baca, died in 2000, and he left no immediate survivors. He set up his foundation to carry on his work on Southern and Civil War history.
      