
        Jim Delsing, an outstanding defensive outfielder who played 10 seasons in the American League but was remembered mostly for his role in baseball's most famous stunt, died Thursday at his home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said his wife, Roseanne.
        On Aug. 19, 1951, the last-place St. Louis Browns were playing the Detroit Tigers in the second game of a doubleheader at Sportsman's Park in St. Louis. Bill Veeck, the Browns' owner, was about to seal his reputation as a master showman, and Delsing was about to become the answer to a baseball trivia question.
        Hoping for headlines other than ''Browns Lose Again,'' Veeck had secretly given a major league contract to the 3-foot-7 Eddie Gaedel, who had been working in show-business jobs calling for a midget. Veeck instructed the Browns' manager, Zach Taylor, to send Gaedel to the plate in the first inning as a pinch-hitter for Frank Saucier, who had started in center field.
        With Tigers catcher Bob Swift on his knees, pitcher Bob Cain threw four straight balls, walking Gaedel, who was wearing uniform No.  1/8 and holding a miniature bat. Gaedel went down to first base, and Taylor summoned Delsing, the Browns' regular center fielder, to run for him.
        ''His strike zone was only a couple inches high,'' Delsing told Murray Chass of The New York Times on the 50th anniversary of the stunt. ''I trot over there, he gets off the bag, pats me on the derriere, says good luck and walks back to the dugout.''
        In his memoir ''Veeck as in Wreck,'' written with Ed Linn, Veeck said, ''If the thing had been done right, Delsing, running for Gaedel, would have scored and we would have won the game, 1-0.''
        But Delsing went only as far as third base and the Browns lost, 6-2.
        Delsing, a native of Rudolph, Wis., made his debut with the Chicago White Sox in 1948 and later played for the Yankees, the Browns, the Tigers, the White Sox again and the Kansas City Athletics. He had a career batting average of .255.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Jay and Bart; his daughters, Kim Delsing, Jamie Delsing and Moochie Twellman; a sister, Clairbel Olson; and 10 grandchildren.
        Gaedel died at age 36 in 1961. Delsing reprised his role in the stunt in a 50th anniversary commemoration at the National Baseball Hall of Fame. At times he reflected on his niche in baseball as the answer to the question: Who ran for Eddie Gaedel? ''A lot of people say Maris hit 61,'' Delsing once told The Chicago Sun-Times, ''but I'm the only one who ran for a midget.''
      