
        Anthony R. Ameruso, a longtime New York City transportation commissioner who was implicated in a series of ethical lapses that engulfed the mayoralty of Edward I. Koch and shook the foundations of the city's political class, died on April 1. He was 68 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y.
        The cause was mantle cell lymphoma, which was diagnosed last year, said his son, Marc. The death was not announced at the time. Mr. Ameruso was buried on April 10.
        In January 1986, Mr. Ameruso was forced from his job at the Department of Transportation after the authorities uncovered an extortion and bribery scandal at the Parking Violations Bureau, which was part of the department.
        There was no evidence tying Mr. Ameruso to that scandal, but in December 1986, he was charged with perjury for failing to disclose his financial interest in a New Jersey company, Chief Realty, that did business with a contractor that won a city permit to provide ferry service.
        Mr. Ameruso was convicted on two felony counts of perjury in July 1987 and was sentenced to 16 weekends in jail and five years of probation. It was an embarrassing end to a long civil-service career that had brought Mr. Ameruso, a civil engineer, to the top ranks of municipal government.
        Nicholas Scoppetta, who as a lawyer in private practice represented Mr. Ameruso during the ethical inquiries that preceded the criminal case, said he believed that Mr. Ameruso had exercised poor judgment but had not benefited financially from his outside relationships with politically influential companies.
        Mr. Scoppetta, now commissioner of the Fire Department, said yesterday that Mr. Ameruso's warmth made him effective.
        ''He was the kind of guy who would show up at the office with a bottle of tomato sauce that he had made the night before and give you a handwritten recipe for his lasagna sauce,'' Mr. Scoppetta said.
        Mr. Koch said yesterday that Mr. Ameruso's career had ended tragically, but he emphasized that his former appointee was never linked to the parking scandal.
        ''It's terrible that he committed a lie, and it's terrible that he violated his oath,'' Mr. Koch said, ''but to tie him in to the P.V.B. corruption would simply be outrageous.''
        A son of a police officer, Anthony Richard Ameruso was born in Brooklyn on April 4, 1937, the youngest of four children. He made models of trains, planes and bridges as a boy. He studied civil engineering at Ohio University in Athens, Ohio, where he also acted in student productions, and went to Yale on a fellowship to study transportation issues.
        Mr. Ameruso became a protégé of the longtime Brooklyn Democratic leader Meade H. Esposito. After joining the government during the mayoralty of Robert F. Wagner, Mr. Ameruso was steadily promoted during the administrations of John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame and eventually oversaw the maintenance and repair of all highways in the city. The Highway Department, which he led, became a bureau of the Transportation Department in 1977.
        Mr. Ameruso weathered the fiscal crisis of the 1970's with grace and humor.
        Once, in 1979, upon meeting Cary Grant at a Yankees World Series game, he told the actor that he was in charge of filling the city's potholes and received this reply: ''My goodness, you poor fellow.''
        Mr. Koch, who took office in 1978, named Mr. Ameruso the commissioner that year, even though an advisory committee recommended against it, saying he was not qualified.
        Mr. Koch said yesterday that Mr. Ameruso was one of the best-regarded managers of the Beame administration, but added that diversifying his cabinet was a factor in his appointment. ''Of all the commissioners that I appointed, there had been no Italians,'' Mr. Koch said.
        Mr. Ameruso oversaw two parking officials, Geoffrey G. Lindenauer and Lester N. Shafran, who were hired at the behest of the Queens Democratic leader, Donald R. Manes, and were ultimately convicted and imprisoned in the graft and bribery scandal. The scandal brought down Stanley M. Friedman, the Bronx Democratic leader, who was convicted of racketeering, conspiracy and mail fraud, and Mr. Manes, who committed suicide. In 1989, Mr. Koch lost his effort to win a fourth term.
        Mr. Ameruso was found to have lied to an investigative commission led by John S. Martin Jr., a former United States attorney, in February and March 1986, after he resigned. The commission was looking into Mr. Ameruso's undisclosed investment in a parking lot in downtown Manhattan with several partners connected to the Brooklyn Democratic organization.
        After the scandal, Mr. Ameruso became a senior vice president at Ferrara Brothers Building Materials Corporation, a concrete company in Queens.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Ameruso is survived by his wife, Mary, and a daughter, Laura. A third child, Jason, died in January.
      