
        Jaroslav Jan Pelikan, a Yale scholar and historian of religion who interpreted Christian tenets to a vast lay audience in the English-speaking world, died on Saturday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 82.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son Michael.
        A prolific author of essays and nearly 40 books, Dr. Pelikan joined the Yale faculty in 1962 and was appointed Sterling professor of history 10 years later. He wrote more than a dozen reference works covering the entire history of Christianity.
        Among his important books were ''The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine'' in five volumes (University of Chicago Press, 1971-1989); ''The Riddle of Roman Catholicism'' (Abingdon, 1959); and a multivolume English edition of Martin Luther's writings.
        While other historians of religion focused mostly on an era or an aspect of it, Dr. Pelikan ventured to become an authority on the gamut of Christian history. His body of work threw light on the Reformation and Medieval philosophy, Saint Augustine and Kierkegaard even as he widened church scholarship to embrace the Eastern Orthodox tradition.
        He was also a bestselling author among general readers with books like ''The Illustrated Jesus Through the Centuries'' (1997), and ''Mary Through the Centuries: Her Place in the History of Culture'' (1996).
        Scores of prizes, awards and honorary degrees given him over the decades culminated in 2004, when the Library of Congress chose him for a Kluge Prize in the Human Sciences, sometimes described as a Nobel Prize for the humanities. (He shared the $1 million award with the French philosopher Paul Ricoeur.)
        A few years earlier, he was appointed to the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Bill Clinton. He was also president of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in the mid-1990's, chairman of the American Academy of Political and Social Science in 2003-4, and founding chairman of the Council of Scholars at the Library of Congress.
        His personal journey took him from a Lutheran upbringing to the Orthodox Church in America, which he joined in 1998. The Rev. John H. Erickson, dean of St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, in Westchester County, said yesterday that Dr. Pelikan had ''likened his path to Orthodoxy to that of a pilot who kept circling the airport, looking for a way to land.''
        Jaroslav Jan Pelikan Jr. was born on Dec. 17, 1923, in Akron, Ohio, the son of a Lutheran pastor who had been brought to this country as a child from what his now Slovakia, and a Serbian mother. His Slovak grandfather, an immigrant, became bishop of the Slovak Lutheran Church in America.
        He grew up comfortable in three languages and eventually came to know about 10, including Greek, Latin and Hebrew.
        His interests ranged widely over philosophy, music, literature, rhetoric, political and legal theory, as well as the natural sciences. His ''Bach Among the Theologians'' (1986), for instance, found a receptive audience among musicians, just as his comparative study, ''Interpreting the Bible and the Constitution'' (2004), did among legal professionals.
        He graduated from Concordia Theological Seminary in St. Louis in 1946, the same year he received a Ph. D. from the University of Chicago. Before he moved to Yale in 1962, he taught at Valparaiso University in Indiana, Concordia Seminary and the University of Chicago. In addition to his son Michael P., of State College, Pa., Dr. Pelikan is survived by his wife of 60 years, Sylvia Burica Pelikan of Hamden; another son, Martin J., of Northfield, Minn.; a daughter, Miriam Ruth Pelikan Pittenger, of Hanover, Ind.; a brother, the Rev. Theodore Pelikan, of Olmsted Falls, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
        As a teenager, Dr. Pelikan had wavered between becoming a scholar and becoming a concert pianist. But though he chose academia, he continued to perform. In one concert he appeared with the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, who declared that Dr. Pelikan was the scholar he would have wanted to be.
      