
        Jiri Frel, a mercurial and eccentric curator who helped build the J. Paul Getty Museum into a major center for Greek and Roman art but resigned after revelations about unscrupulous acquisition practices, died on April 29. He was 82.
        Officials at Père-Lachaise cemetery in Paris supplied the date of death yesterday and said he had been buried on Thursday. Family members could not be reached for details.
        A Czechoslovak refugee who studied at the Sorbonne and became a well-regarded expert in Greek tombstones and Attic pottery, Mr. Frel worked briefly as a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in the early 1970's. Thomas Hoving, who was then the Met director, later wrote that he had ''seldom met a more electrically persuasive man'' in his life.
        Mr. Frel stayed at the job only about a year before accepting an offer in 1973 from J. Paul Getty, the billionaire oilman, to move to Los Angeles to help him open his collection of antiquities to the public and seek further acquisitions. But working with Getty, whose taste in ancient art was highly specific, and with the Getty's new trustees, proved difficult. So Mr. Frel began trying to build the collection mostly through donations rather than purchases.
        One very expensive piece of ancient art that he did persuade the Getty to buy, a marble kouros, or sculpture of a naked youth, divided the antiquities world. After consulting several experts and conducting scientific tests, the museum paid more than $9 million for the sculpture at Mr. Frel's urging. But later many scholars said they believed the work was a fake, and the Getty uncovered information suggesting that Mr. Frel forged had documents about the statue's ownership history.
        The museum's Web site now tells viewers that ''neither art historians nor scientists have been able to completely resolve the issue of the Getty Museum kouros's authenticity.''
        Earlier in his tenure at the Getty, Mr. Frel worked tirelessly to build the museum's collection. But scholars and archaeologists often questioned his methods. He cultivated two antiquities dealers, Giacomo Medici and Robert Hecht, who are now central figures in an investigation into the looting of artifacts found on Italian soil.
        Italian officials have traced dozens of objects at the Getty to Mr. Medici, and he was convicted of antiquities trafficking in 2004.
        Marion True, who was chief antiquities curator at the Getty from 1986 until last year, is now on trial in Rome with Mr. Hecht on similar charges.
        The case has lent momentum to repatriation claims against American museums by Italy and other archaeological source countries. After negotiations in Athens yesterday, the Getty's director, Michael Brand, signaled that he favored the return of some artifacts to Greece.
        Mr. Frel also devised a scheme through which dealers sold works to people who agreed to donate the works to the Getty provided that appraisals were prepared that would inflate their value, thereby furnishing tax write-offs for the donors. Reports of the arrangement led to Mr. Frel's demotion in 1984 for what the museum called ''serious violations of the museum's policies and rules regarding donations.'' Two years later, he resigned from the Getty.
        He moved to Paris and fell out of touch with many of his American colleagues. He also later lived in Rome and in Budapest, working as a consultant and teacher. Friends said they believed he had been married at least three times and had four children.
        Mr. Frel (the name is pronounced YEE-jee FRELL) was born in 1923 and studied at Charles University in Prague. He left the country in 1969, months after the Soviet military invasion, and taught at Princeton and other schools before being hired by the Met, which helped him obtain working papers so he could remain in the United States.
        Jerome Eisenberg, a New York antiquities dealer who studied under Mr. Frel and later did business with him, described him as a ''quite a Byzantine character,'' charming and brilliant but also given to fits of rage.
        ''He loved food, women everything,'' Mr. Eisenberg said. ''He was a real bon vivant.''
        Mr. Eisenberg said that Mr. Frel summoned him urgently to Rome several years ago, providing only vague reasons. He made the trip and found that Mr. Frel simply wanted him to confirm his opinion that a statue on public display was not nearly as old as Italian curators claimed it was.
        ''He was right,'' Mr. Eisenberg said.
      