
        Milton Himmelfarb, a leading essayist for Commentary and other publications who was known for his well wrought and witty observations on Jewish affairs, died on Jan. 4 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in White Plains.
        The cause was complications of skin cancer, his nephew William Kristol said.
        Mr. Himmelfarb was a member of an astonishingly accomplished intellectual clan with working-class and liberal roots that evolved into neoconservative royalty. His younger sister, Gertrude Himmelfarb, is a historian of Victorian thought who has criticized the distortion of American scholarship by deconstruction and other fashionable schools of thought. His brother-in-law, Irving Kristol, is a founder of neo-conservatism; and his nephew is the founding editor of the influential conservative periodical The Weekly Standard.
        Yet Mr. Himmelfarb, a bookish man who commanded a half-dozen languages, managed to carve out his own reputation in that crowded cerebral field and to display a gift for wry, trenchant observations about Jewish life, coining aphorisms that are repeated with relish.
        ''Each Jew knows how thoroughly ordinary he is,'' he once wrote. ''Yet taken together we seem caught up in things great and inexplicable.''
        Of the impact of the University of Chicago political philosopher Leo Strauss, who influenced such culture-war partisans as Allan Bloom and Francis Fukuyama, Mr. Himmelfarb wrote: ''There are many excellent teachers. They have students. Strauss had disciples.''
        And in his most famous phrase, one that political scientists and reporters admired for its concise ability to express why Jews remain liberal even as they become affluent, he said that Jews ''earn like Episcopalians and vote like Puerto Ricans.''
        Perhaps Mr. Himmelfarb's best-known essay was ''No Hitler, No Holocaust,'' published in a 1984 issue of Commentary, in which he confronted historians who attributed the Holocaust to larger socioeconomic forces and shrugged off the role of demonic individuals.
        ''Hitler willed and ordered the Holocaust, and was obeyed,'' he wrote. ''Traditions, tendencies, ideas, myths -- none of these made Hitler murder the Jews. All that history, all those forces and influences could have been the same and Hitler could as easily, more easily, not have murdered the Jews.''
        Mr. Himmelfarb was born in Brooklyn in 1918 into an Orthodox, Yiddish-speaking household. He graduated from City College in 1938 and received a degree in Hebrew literature from the Jewish Theological Seminary. In 1942, he went to work as a researcher for the American Jewish Committee, and remained for more than 40 years, eventually becoming the director of information and research.
        Beginning in 1959, he was editor of The American Jewish Yearbook, a Baedeker to the labyrinthine landscape of Jewish organizational life.
        He commissioned essays for the yearbook that cautioned about the threats to sustaining the Jewish population posed by birth control and intermarriage. He also wrote essays on these and many other subjects for Commentary, an affiliate of the committee, and wrote several books.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith, and seven children: Martha, Edward, Miriam, Anne, Sarah, Naomi and Dan, and 12 grandchildren.
      