
        Cy Feuer, the celebrated producer who gave theatergoers some of Broadway's most beloved musicals, including ''Guys and Dolls,'' ''Can-Can'' and ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95.
        The cause was bladder cancer, his son Jed said.
        For more than a half-century, starting in 1945, Mr. Feuer's partner was Ernest H. Martin. In later years they produced film versions of musicals, including the Oscar-winning ''Cabaret.'' But it was on Broadway where Feuer and Martin became virtually a brand name.
        In the press they were ''the King and Cy,'' a producing team with a widely admired knack for sensing what the public, if not always the critics, would like. Demanding and incessantly hard working, they could also be bruising in their relations with the talent they hired.
        They were at their peak from 1950 to 1965, a period often called the heyday of the American musical. This was before rock 'n' roll began its reign, when talents like Cole Porter, Irving Berlin and Rodgers and Hammerstein ruled the national culture, and shows like ''My Fair Lady'' and ''West Side Story'' went head-to-head on Broadway.
        Mr. Feuer and Mr. Martin had a string of hits in those years, working with or competing against some of the era's great figures of the musical stage. Porter wrote the music and lyrics for ''Can-Can'' (1953) and ''Silk Stockings'' (1955) for the Feuer and Martin team. In 1962 they tapped a young playwright named Neil Simon to write the book for ''Little Me.''
        A frequent collaborator was the composer and lyricist Frank Loesser, who worked on three of the biggest Feuer and Martin Broadway hits: ''Where's Charley?'' (1948), ''Guys and Dolls'' (1950) and ''How to Succeed'' (1961), which won the Pulitzer Prize and the Tony Award for best musical.
        Mr. Feuer and Mr. Martin, who died in 1995, were hands-on producers. They found ideas, assembled (and sometimes disassembled) creative teams and oversaw every aspect of their shows. They also made enemies. There were well-publicized scrapes with the likes of the choreographer and director Bob Fosse, the playwright and director George S. Kaufman and even Loesser, who feuded with Mr. Feuer.
        Mr. Feuer (pronounced FEW-er) was widely considered the more creative engine of the team, sometimes directing shows himself, among them ''Little Me'' (with Fosse), ''Silk Stockings,'' ''The Boy Friend'' (1954) and ''Whoop-Up,'' a rare clunker from 1958.
        In all, Mr. Feuer produced a dozen Broadway musicals, with Mr. Martin or alone, ending with ''The Act,'' in 1977, starring Liza Minnelli. His final Broadway credit came two years later as director of ''I Remember Mama,'' which landed with a thud at the Majestic Theater and lasted 108 performances.
        A Life Befitting a Musical
        Cy Feuer's life reads as if it should have been made into a musical. He was born Seymour Arnold Feuer in Brooklyn on Jan. 15, 1911, to Herman Feuer, the manager of a Yiddish theater on Second Avenue on the Lower East Side, and the former Ann Abrams, a saleswoman in a dress shop. (Disliking his given name, he later changed it legally to Cyrus, but then went by Cy.)
        In his 2003 autobiography, ''I Got the Show Right Here,'' written with Ken Gross, Mr. Feuer described his father as ''a vague, almost nonexistent presence in my childhood.'' The elder Feuer died of cancer when Cy was 13, leaving his mother, himself and his younger brother, Stan, to subsist on Mrs. Feuer's 1920's wages of $25 a week or less.
        But Ann Feuer was a woman of forceful ambition. She decided that Cy should learn to play the trumpet, and when he went to New Utrecht High School in South Brooklyn, where he was not an especially good student, he played trumpet in the band. She encouraged him to attend Juilliard.
        His first professional date with the trumpet was playing Sousa marches and Dixieland tunes like ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' from the back of a political campaign truck. When he was 16 he landed a job playing trumpet in the pit of the Roxy Theater on West 47th Street. He later quit the job when he got a better offer from the newly opened Radio City Music Hall. That job lasted until the mid-1930's, when he left and joined Lionel Belasco's society orchestra. On a trip with the orchestra to the West Coast, he decided to stay to seek his fortune.
        Throughout his life he was known to be extraordinarily persuasive and superb at self-promotion. In Los Angeles he soon talked his way into becoming the West Coast representative of Brunswick Records, although, as he later recalled, he knew virtually nothing about the record business.
        Brunswick was owned by Republic Pictures, a B-movie mill. Before long he made the studio see the wisdom of making him its music director. By his own estimate he created scores for ''a truckload of pictures between 1939 and 1948.''
        But it soon became clear to Mr. Feuer that he had no talent for film scoring. As he wrote in his memoir, composing and arranging were hard work for him and not much fun. Yet he couldn't go back to the trumpet. ''I had long since come to the conclusion that I was a second-rate trumpet player,'' he wrote.
        Then World War II intervened. Joining the Army Air Corps, he spent the war making training films and rose to the rank of captain.
        He returned to Republic briefly after the war and, at a cocktail party, met Mr. Martin, a young producer. ''Back then, everybody was going west,'' Mr. Feuer recalled. ''All of the talent in the world was going to Hollywood. That's when we said: 'Let's go the other way. There will be a lot less competition.' ''
        Partners by then, they bought the rights to an 1892 Victorian farce called ''Charley's Aunt'' from the heir of its author, Brandon Thomas, and turned it into the musical ''Where's Charley?'' They persuaded Ray Bolger, the Scarecrow in the 1939 movie ''The Wizard of Oz,'' to play the lead and Loesser to write the music and lyrics. George Abbott, an established force on Broadway, agreed to write the book and direct.
        ''Where's Charley?'' received dreadful reviews when it opened at the St. James Theater in 1948, but the public loved it, and it ran for 840 performances.
        Meanwhile, Mr. Feuer and Mr. Martin had decided to produce ''Guys and Dolls.'' Mr. Feuer, looking for a witty writer who could draw on the raffish characters of Damon Runyon's stories, picked Abe Burrows, with whom he had gone to high school. Loesser was again hired to write music and lyrics. Opening at the 46th Street Theater in 1950, the show starred Robert Alda and ran for 1,200 performances, winning the 1951 Tony Award for best musical. In that show Mr. Feuer was a pioneer in integrating a Broadway pit by hiring the black trumpeter Joe Wilder.
        Then it was on to ''Can-Can,'' a story of lax morals and feminine wiles in an 1890's Parisian dance hall. Mr. Feuer went to England to find Cole Porter, who had a home there, and hired him to write the music and lyrics. (He also hired Burrows again to write the book and direct.) Porter, then in his early 60's, accurately predicted that the reviewers would judge the show ''not up to Cole Porter's usual standards.'' But ''Can-Can,'' opening at the Shubert Theater in 1953, did give the world the songs ''I Love Paris'' and ''C'est Magnifique,'' and it introduced a talented young dancer, Gwen Verdon.
        Giving Julie Andrews a Big Break
        The next year Mr. Feuer introduced another promising talent, one he had discovered on a Liverpool stage in England, a teenager with perfect pitch, he recalled, named Julie Andrews. He took her to the United States, acting as her guardian, and gave her the lead in ''The Boy Friend.'' It made her a star.
        Mr. Feuer's relationships with the artists he worked with were often contentious. In one episode, he and Mr. Martin unceremoniously dismissed Kaufman from the production of ''Silk Stockings,'' a romantic musical comedy based on the 1939 film ''Ninotchka,'' about a beautiful Russian agent. Kaufman said later that when he died, and was cremated, someone should throw his ashes in Feuer and Martin's faces.
        More than 20 years later, unhappy with the director of ''The Act,'' Martin Scorsese, they dropped him, saying he had more promise as a film director. That musical, set in a nightclub, played at the Majestic and lasted less than a year. During the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Martin and Mr. Feuer returned to the West Coast, working with Los Angeles and San Francisco opera companies and producing film versions of ''A Chorus Line'' and ''Cabaret,'' to mixed success.
        ''When we made 'Cabaret,' we took a second-rate play and made a first-rate movie,'' Mr. Feuer wrote. ''In 'A Chorus Line,' we took a first-rate play and made a second-rate movie.''
        ''Cabaret'' (1972) won eight Academy Awards; the film version of ''A Chorus Line'' (1985), unlike the Broadway show, was widely considered a creative failure.
        Mr. Feuer met Posy Greenberg, an antiques dealer, in 1946 in Manhattan. She was divorced and had a son, Robert. They married and had another son, Jed, now a frequent composer for the stage. (Robert became a lawyer.) The sons survive him, as do two grandchildren. Broadway theaters plan to dim their marquee lights in Mr. Feuer's memory tonight at 8.
        Like all producers, Mr. Feuer sometimes missed the boat. When Mr. Martin suggested that they put together a musical based on George Gershwin's orchestral work ''An American in Paris,'' Mr. Feuer recalled thinking, ''What the hell is 'An American in Paris'? It's a tone poem. It's not a show.'' He did nothing with it, but it later became a successful movie starring Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron. The Feuer and Martin team also gave up rights to Meredith Willson's musical ''The Music Man,'' which became the basis of a hit movie in 1962.
        But for many years, during the golden age of the American musical, Mr. Feuer's name was synonymous with success. His explanation, he wrote, was simple: ''I worked harder than everyone else.''
        Correction:  May 20, 2006, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about the theatrical producer Cy Feuer misstated the site of the Roxy Theater, where he landed a job playing the trumpet as a teenager. It was on West 50th Street, not West 47th Street.
      