
        William R. Ginsberg, a leading advocate for the preservation of open space, a professor of environmental law and a New York City commissioner of parks and recreation in the Lindsay administration, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was lung cancer, his son Joshua said.
        From a boyhood in Flushing, Queens, when that community was still a patchwork of farmland, through his stewardship of the city's parks, Mr. Ginsberg evolved into an influential voice and legal tactician in the state's environmental movement.
        He was the lead lawyer in a 1979 case that for the first time allowed tax exemptions for privately owned nature preserves. He helped write state legislation creating conservation easements, which protect property owners' rights while preserving open space. He wrote the state report on the nearly 22,000 tons of toxic chemicals buried in steel drums near a residential development beside Love Canal in upstate New York.
        Mr. Ginsberg retired in 2004 as the Rivkin Radler distinguished professor of environmental law at Hofstra University, where, in 1974, he originated one of the first environmental law classes in the country. He was also an associate of the Manhattan law firm of Sive, Paget & Riesel since 1983. Eric A. Goldstein, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council, called Mr. Ginsberg a pioneer in environmental law, about which he taught and wrote extensively.
        But what most motivated Mr. Ginsberg was saving open space. In an interview with the Hofstra Law Report, the law school's alumni magazine, at the time of his retirement, Mr. Ginsberg said: ''I take credit for having been involved in the preservation of 30,000 acres in New York State. I know that's minuscule, but I'm going to keep at it.''
        William Roy Ginsberg, the son of a lumberyard owner and a homemaker, was born on June 10, 1930. He graduated from Antioch College in 1952 and received his law degree from Yale in 1955. After moving to Manhattan, Mr. Ginsberg became involved in the reform movement of the Democratic Party, and in the late 1950's became president of the Lenox Hill Democratic Club.
        In 1966, the president of the City Council, Frank D. O'Connor, chose him as his chief executive assistant.
        Two years later, Mayor John V. Lindsay named Mr. Ginsberg the first deputy administrator of the city's Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs Administration, a combined agency at the time, in which Mr. Ginsberg also held the title of parks commissioner. He presided over a program to double the size of the cages at the Central Park and Prospect Park Zoos to 200 square feet.
        Over the next three decades, Mr. Ginsberg served on governmental commissions and on the board or as an officer of several environmental organizations. From 1981 to 1996, he was president of the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development.
        One of his most important accomplishments, he said after his retirement, was litigating the case of Mohonk v. Town of Gardiner in 1979.
        The issue in that case was whether the nature preserve set up by the owners of Mohonk Mountain House, a historic resort, could qualify for a property tax exemption.
        ''I took the position that open space was educational,'' Mr. Ginsberg said. ''I had teachers testify that they brought botany, biology and geology classes to Mohonk.''
        Lower court decisions against granting the tax exemptions were unanimously overturned by the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court.
        In 1979, Mr. Ginsberg was the hearing officer for the state task force investigating the Love Canal contamination case. Two years later, the Hooker Chemical and Plastics Company reached an agreement in federal court to clean up the Love Canal site.
        Mr. Ginsberg was co-editor, with Philip Weinberg, of ''Environmental Law and Regulation in New York'' (West Publishing, 1996), which Mr. Goldstein of the Natural Resources Defense Council called the leading treatise on environmental law in the state.
        Besides his son Joshua, he is survived by another son, Mark, also of Manhattan; a sister, Alane Carter of Naples, Fla., and by his companion of 10 years, Arlene Sterne. His wife of 38 years, Susan Karelitz Ginsberg, died in 1991.
      