
        Edward R. Becker, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and a highly respected jurist admired for his powerful decisions and personal humility, died Friday afternoon at his home in northeast Philadelphia, where he had lived almost all his life. He was 73.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his executive assistant of 25 years, Trish Kowalski.
        Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican and a close friend for more than 50 years, said, ''He became one of America's most respected and admired judges and was one of the greatest Philadelphians in our city's history.''
        Mr. Specter called Judge Becker the ''101st senator'' for the power that his rulings had in shaping federal law. His written opinions, which bore no political stamp, often guided the Supreme Court and Congress and shaped new law on issues including the reliability of scientific evidence and the rationale for class-action suits.
        He was recognized by the University of Chicago Law Review as one of the federal appeals court judges most frequently cited by the Supreme Court.
        Judge Becker was ''Your Honor'' to two generations of litigants at the federal courthouse in Philadelphia, and ''Eddie'' to a wide circle of friends from several walks of life in Philadelphia and Washington. He served on the bench for almost 36 years, making him one of the nation's most senior jurists.
        He always rode the elevated train from his home in the Frankford section of the city to the courthouse on Market Street. He was known for a lack of grandiosity rarely found in federal court. A former clerk, Marci A. Hamilton, now of the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University, once observed that ''the judge greets his new clerks on their first day with a single rule: 'no deference.' ''
        The Third Circuit hears appeals from federal courts in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and the Virgin Islands. Judge Becker served on the appeals court for a quarter-century, issuing decisions on dozens of the region's most complex legal disputes, from asbestos litigation to free speech. He was respected for the comity and clarity he brought to his decision-making at the appeals court, which sits in three-judge panels.
        The appeals judges, ''deciding and writing up cases, engage in the most rigorous dialogue with each other,'' he said in January in a Senate Judiciary Committee appearance supporting the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., his Third Circuit colleague.
        ''The great violinist Isaac Stern, describing an afternoon of chamber music, once opined that after such a session, one knows his fellow quartet members better than a man knows his wife after 30 years of marriage,'' he continued.
        Judge Becker sought to find similar harmonies in the law and in his life: he had an ability to play almost any song by ear, and he became the unofficial pianist for the Supreme Court at their periodic sing-alongs. ''I've never heard anyone call for a tune the judge didn't know,'' Justice David H. Souter said.
        Edward Roy Becker was born on May 4, 1933, in the twin-family stucco house in northeast Philadelphia where he lived for more than seven decades. He was a 1954 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and received his law degree from Yale in 1957. After 13 years as a Philadelphia lawyer -- a term he loved, for its old-fashioned connotations of wiliness -- he was appointed as a federal trial court judge by President Richard M. Nixon in 1970.
        He was elevated to the Third Circuit in 1981 by President Ronald Reagan. He was the appellate court's chief judge from 1998 to 2003 and assumed senior status on his 70th birthday, May 4, 2003. Upon receiving an honorary law degree from Temple University that year, he quoted one of his favorite jurists, Learned Hand: ''Liberty lies in the hearts of men and women; when it dies there, no constitution, no law, nor court can save it.''
        He is survived by his wife of nearly 49 years, the former Flora Lyman; three children, Jon, a teacher in Brooklyn; Susan, a federal prosecutor in Philadelphia, and Charles, a lawyer in Philadelphia; and four grandchildren.
        Judge Becker's chambers overlooked Independence National Historic Park, where the Liberty Bell is displayed. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the block of Chestnut Street running through the park was sealed off, imprisoning that national symbol of freedom. A citizens' coalition rallied to open it again, and they won crucial support from Judge Becker. The street was reopened in 2003.
      