
        Gilbert Sorrentino, a Brooklyn-born poet, novelist, literary critic and professor whose erudite work drew frequent praise and occasional scorn but never a wide audience, died on Thursday in Brooklyn. He was 77 and lived in Bay Ridge.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son Christopher.
        Mr. Sorrentino was a tenured professor for two decades at Stanford University, where he taught English literature and creative writing, even though he had never finished college. The head of Stanford's writing program said of the appointment, ''Sorrentino is a very learned man -- we weren't for a second concerned about a Good Housekeeping seal of approval.''
        Born on April 27, 1929, Mr. Sorrentino grew up in Bay Ridge and attended Brooklyn College, where he studied English literature. His studies were interrupted by service in the United States Army Medical Corps during the Korean War and later by the demands of a young family.
        After working as an editor at Grove Press, he devoted himself full time to writing after 1970. He won numerous awards, including two Guggenheim fellowships, the John Dos Passos Prize for Literature, and an award from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Of more than 20 literary works, his most commercially successful was the novel ''Mulligan Stew,'' which was named by The New York Times Book Review as one of the best books of 1979. A reviewer, Malcolm Bradbury, described it as a ''neo-Joycean concoction'' about a ''failing, if not failed writer.''
        In 2001, David Andrews, in The Review of Contemporary Fiction, wrote, ''There is no other American writer whose oeuvre remotely resembles that of Gilbert Sorrentino, and it is tempting to say that no other living American can match his artistic achievement.''
        Yet, Mr. Andrews added, ''Sorrentino continues to have trouble publishing his work, and it is an almost trite sad-but-truism that his reputation remains smaller than his accomplishments would dictate.''
        Mr. Sorrentino had his detractors as well. Martin Seymour-Smith, writing in The Financial Times in 1984, wrote that Mr. Sorrentino had ''attracted extravagant praise from a few but no notice from most critics or readers. This suggests that he might well be a writer of very high quality. But in my view he is not.''
        Mr. Sorrentino's first marriage, to Elsene Wiessner, ended in divorce. In addition to his son Christopher, he is survived by his second wife, Victoria Ortiz, of Brooklyn; another son, Jesse, of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren. A daughter, Delia, died three years ago.
      