
        Lewis Davis, a co-founder of the architectural firm Davis Brody Bond, whose own work ranged from bold Brutalist apartment towers to ornate Beaux-Arts civic landmarks, died on Sunday night at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, for which he designed two buildings. He was 80 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his son, Steven M. Davis, a partner in Davis Brody Bond, which is now working on the World Trade Center memorial and museum.
        Best known in the 1960's and 70's for powerfully expressive large-scale housing developments in New York like Waterside and Riverbend, Mr. Davis brought his career to a close with several projects at the Humanities and Social Sciences Library of the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue.
        His fond, proprietary pride in the library was evident as he showed off the restored Main Reading Room to a visitor in 1998. ''We're dressing up an aristocratic dowager for her 90th birthday,'' he said, ''and making her look better than she did at her debut.''
        Mr. Davis was born July 31, 1925, in New York. He received a bachelor's and a master's degree in architecture from the University of Pennsylvania and served in the Army Air Forces from 1943 to 1945.
        His first marriage, to Lynn Mangel in 1951, ended in divorce. In 1976, he married Anne Moskovitz, who survives him, as do three sons, Steven, of Brooklyn; Michael, of Brooklyn; Peter, of Larchmont, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Ariel Morvan, of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
        In 1952, Mr. Davis, Samuel M. Brody and Chester Wisniewski opened their practice as Davis, Brody & Wisniewski. Alan Schwartzman became a partner in 1965, after which the firm name was changed to Davis, Brody & Associates.
        The project that put the firm on the map was Riverbend, completed in 1967 on a site bounded by Fifth Avenue and the Harlem River Drive, 138th and 142nd Streets. The developer was Richard Ravitch of HRH Construction.
        ''We were providing housing for people who didn't have any voice in creating their own environment,'' Mr. Davis said in a 1988 interview with Architectural Record. ''But we wanted to give them the kind of variation in apartment size and orientation that one would find in an established Harlem neighborhood, not the anonymous kinds of living space characteristic of the typical public housing project.''
        Riverbend's 628 duplex apartments were spread through interconnected buildings with courtyards and open-air passageways that Mr. Davis likened to sidewalks in the sky. Lining these passageways were small front porches. Jumbo bricks were used to save labor, time and money without sacrificing a warm facade.
        ''Lew was committed to the concept of designing something that had real quality for which one did not have to pay a measurable increase in cost,'' Mr. Ravitch said. ''Also, he was very concerned about the quality of life of the people who were going to live there.''
        The mixed-income Waterside project, Mr. Ravitch recalled, began in 1961 over lunch with Mr. Davis on an old pier at 23rd Street. Mr. Ravitch had been asked to think about ways to solve a housing crisis facing United Nations employees.
        Looking up the East River shoreline to Turtle Bay, the developer and the architect envisioned housing on a platform over the river and wondered, ''Why not?''
        It turned out there were many reasons why not, including the skepticism of city planners, the need for federal legislation, opposition at the Board of Estimate and the reluctance of private lenders. But Mr. Ravitch and Mr. Davis persevered.
        Construction began in 1971 and was completed in 1974. Waterside's four towers are unmistakable landmarks along the East River: 41- and 31-story structural eruptions of brick, in pinwheel plans, with notched corners on the lower floors, chamfered corners in the middle and cantilevered projections toward the top.
        Other big housing developments by Davis, Brody included East Midtown Plaza of 1974, between 23rd and 25th Streets, First and Second Avenues; and the River Park Towers of 1975, on the Harlem River in the University Heights section of the Bronx.
        Mr. Davis also worked on the United States Pavilion at Expo '70 in Osaka, Japan, whose roof of translucent vinyl was supported on a cushion of air; the Jane B. Aron Residence hall and the Icahn Institute (also known as the East Building) at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine; the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center; and the William and Anita Newman Library at Baruch College.
        Renovation and construction projects at the New York Public Library included the Celeste Bartos Forum, the D. Samuel and Jeane H. Gottesman Exhibition Hall, South Court and the Deborah, Jonathan F. P., Samuel Priest and Adam Raphael Rose Main Reading Room.
        Davis, Brody merged in 1990 with Bond Ryder & Associates. J. Max Bond Jr. remains a partner in Davis Brody Bond. Mr. Brody died in 1992.
        Though tempered by many battles with clients, budgets and bureaucracies, Mr. Davis maintained his ebullience. ''Architects are hopeful people,'' he said in 1975. ''They don't build ruins, do they?''
      