
        Morris P. Glushien, who was general counsel for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union for a quarter-century and won a landmark free-speech case before the United States Supreme Court, died on Friday in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 96.
        In 1947, David Dubinsky, the garment workers' leader, hired Mr. Glushien to head the union's newly created legal department. In that role, Mr. Glushien (pronounced GLUE-shin) helped build the garment workers into one of the nation's most powerful labor unions. In 1968, at its peak, it represented 457,000 workers.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Glushien and the union's other leaders were preoccupied with the many apparel factories that fled New York City and the rest of the Northeast to lower-wage communities with no unions in the South. When garment worker organizers sought to unionize the Southern workers, some communities enacted laws that, through the use of a permit requirement, largely prohibited union organizers from contacting workers at their homes.
        As the union's general counsel, Mr. Glushien argued the case of Staub v. the City of Baxley, Ga., challenging such laws, before the Supreme Court, and in 1958 the court ruled that such prohibitions violated the First Amendment.
        The court concluded that Baxley's mayor and city council had denied a permit without any standards, in effect deciding who could solicit citizens for political or union causes.
        ''There had been an epidemic of ordinances in the South to keep out union organizers,'' said Max Zimny, who succeeded Mr. Glushien as the union's general counsel. ''This was a very important story.''
        In his oral argument, Mr. Glushien told the justices that an ordinance with so few standards could even prevent his 11-year-old daughter, who was in the audience, from going door to door to recruit members for her Girl Scout troop.
        Mr. Glushien graduated from Cornell University Law School in 1932 and then became one of the first to teach labor law there. While studying at Cornell, he was a co-founder of Curia, a lunch circle for Jewish law students, who at the time were excluded from other campus social clubs.
        In 1939, he became the associate general counsel for the National Labor Relations Board. He headed its Supreme Court litigation at a time when many cases sought to challenge and flesh out the National Labor Relations Act, which was enacted in 1935.
        During World War II, Mr. Glushien volunteered for the Army Air Corps, worked on cracking Japanese codes and served in India with the intelligence corps.
        Upon joining the garment workers, he provided legal backing to Mr. Dubinsky's strategy to increase wages and benefits for apparel workers and to push for broader goals, like Medicare and better pensions. After retiring from the union in 1972, Mr. Glushien served as an arbitrator in disputes involving police unions, building inspectors and hospital workers.
        His wife, Anne Sorelle Williams Glushien, died in 1989. He is survived by two daughters, Minna Taylor of Los Angeles and Ruth Wedgwood of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      