
        Sheik Maktoum bin Rashid al-Maktoum, emir of Dubai and prime minister and vice president of the United Arab Emirates, died Wednesday in Australia. He was 62.
        No official cause of death was given, but Australian and Arab news media reported that he had suffered heart problems. His body was flown back to the Persian Gulf on Wednesday for a state burial to be held Thursday in Dubai.
        Sheik Maktoum had presided over Dubai since 1990, overseeing the development of the emirate from a trading town into a rapidly growing metropolis and business hub.
        He largely left the emirate's day-to-day affairs to his younger brother, and successor, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, but took active roles in the federation's foreign policy, often representing the seven emirates at international meetings. He also oversaw projects aimed at upgrading the standard of living and education as part of a broad modernization program.
        But most of all Sheik Maktoum, who was born in a modest family home and educated at a British university, was a lover of horses. He is often credited with introducing Arabs to the world of international equestrian competitions, forming the world-class Godolphin equestrian team and establishing the Dubai World Cup, an annual event that placed Dubai firmly at the center of the equestrian scene.
        The emir arrived in Queensland, Australia, on Dec. 28 for a renowned yearling sale known as the Magic Millions, The Associated Press reported.
        Sheik Mohammed, the crown prince of Dubai and the emirates' defense minister, succeeded his older brother as emir. The emirates' Supreme Council, which comprises the seven rulers in the federation, will meet soon to choose a vice president to replace Sheik Maktoum. Similarly, the emirates' president, Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahyan, is to nominate a new prime minister to form a cabinet. It is customary for the emir of Dubai to serve in both roles.
        The government declared 40 days of mourning and government offices will be shuttered for seven days. Most businesses in Dubai closed Wednesday morning for three days, and trading on the Dubai Stock Exchange was halted for a week.
      