
        Wolfgang Unzicker, a German judge and chess grandmaster who ranked among the world's top 50 players for almost two decades, died April 20 while on vacation in Portugal. He was 80 and lived in Munich.
        The cause was heart failure, according to the obituary in the newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, for which he was once a chess columnist.
        Urbane in his manners and appearance, Mr. Unzicker won West Germany's championship seven times from 1948 to 1965. He also represented the country in 13 chess Olympiads, including one in Tel Aviv in 1965 in which the team finished third. He was the top player on the team in 10 of the Olympiads.
        Among Mr. Unzicker's notable results were a tie for first place with Boris Spassky in 1965 in the Chigorin Memorial at Sochi, the Black Sea resort in what was then the Soviet Union; first place in 1967 at Maribor in the then Yugoslav republic of Slovenia, ahead of Samuel Reshevsky; and a tie for fourth place in 1967 in the Second Piatigorsky Cup in Santa Monica, Calif., ahead of Tigran Petrosian, then the world champion.
        What made Mr. Unzicker unusual was that he was not a professional player. Instead, he practiced law, and eventually became an administrative judge in Munich.
        He was one of the very few elite players who were amateurs.
        One of that group was Max Euwe, a Dutch grandmaster who taught mathematics at a girls' school and who won the world championship in 1935. Another was Reuben Fine, an American who won a string of tournaments in the 1930's while studying to become a psychoanalyst.
        Mr. Unzicker was not quite at that level, but he had the respect of his peers. Anatoly Karpov, a former world champion, once called Mr. Unzicker the ''world champion of amateurs.''
        Mr. Unzicker was born in Pirmasens, Germany, on June 26, 1925. He learned to play chess from his father, who was a high school teacher, when he was 10. He was awarded the title of grandmaster in 1954.
        He is survived by his wife, Freia, their three sons, Alexander, Ferdinand and Stefan, and three grandchildren. Alexander and Ferdinand play chess, and Ferdinand is internationally ranked, although he is not nearly as good as his father was.
        Mr. Unzicker sometimes played opening systems that were not the best or most incisive. When a contemporary said to him that his openings were unambitious, he replied, ''I know, but it could be worse.''
      