
        Robert N. Giaimo, an 11-term congressman from Connecticut who was co-sponsor of the bill that led to the creation of the National Endowment for the Arts, died on Wednesday in Arlington, Va. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of heart and lung disease, said his daughter, Barbara Giaimo Koones.
        As a congressman in 1965, Mr. Giaimo (pronounced JIE-mo) was among the sponsors of legislation that created the arts endowment, which has awarded 111,000 grants to arts organizations and artists since its founding, and the National Endowment for the Humanities, which provides grants for the study of literature, history, philosophy and languages.
        Mr. Giaimo was also called the grandfather of the Metro for his contribution to creating a rail system in Washington, according to Ms. Koones, and worked for the inclusion of the old New Haven Railroad in a 1968 merger of the Pennsylvania Railroad with New York Central.
        He also sponsored a provision to eliminate a loyalty oath required of college students who were applying for federal grants, according to papers filed at the Thomas J. Dodd Research Center at the University of Connecticut.
        ''He was involved in public policy on a large scale, but he never forgot where he came from and the people who put him there,'' said Rosa L. DeLauro, a Democratic congresswoman who has held Mr. Giaimo's former seat since 1990.
        Ms. DeLauro met Mr. Giaimo when she was 8 years old while he was campaigning for Congress. In later years, he wrote her college recommendation letters and counseled her on Washington politics.
        Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut, said Mr. Giaimo was also a mentor to him when he was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1974.
        Robert Nicholas Giaimo was born in New Haven on Oct. 15, 1919, the son of Rose Scarpulla Giaimo and Rosario Giaimo, an immigrant from Sicily who founded the Community Bank and Trust Company in New Haven and provided loans to many of the city's immigrants.
        The younger Mr. Giaimo was reared in North Haven, Conn., and graduated from Fordham University in 1941. After graduating from the University of Connecticut School of Law in 1943, Mr. Giaimo entered the Army, leaving three years later as a first lieutenant. He also served as a captain in the Judge Advocate General Corps in the Army Reserve.
        After working as a lawyer in New Haven, he won his first election to become a member of the New Haven Board of Education in 1949. In 1958, he was elected as a Democrat to the 86th Congress, representing the New Haven area.
        In his 22 years in Congress, Mr. Giaimo was chairman of the Budget Committee for two terms and served on the House Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee on the Department of Defense. From 1975 to 1976, he served on a select committee established by Congress to investigate the intelligence-gathering activities of the federal government.
        After retiring in 1981, Mr. Giaimo worked as a consultant for Connecticut companies like United Technologies.
        In addition to his daughter, of Potomac, Md., Mr. Giaimo is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marion Schuenemann Giaimo, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  May 27, 2006, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Robert N. Giaimo, an 11-term congressman from Connecticut, misstated the day of his death in some copies. It was Wednesday, not Thursday.
      