
        Ted Schroeder, a tennis champion who won Wimbledon and the United States singles titles in the 1940's but steadfastly declined to turn professional, died yesterday at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 84.
        The International Tennis Hall of Fame, which inducted him in 1966 and announced his death, said the cause was cancer.
        Schroeder won the men's singles at the United States National Championships (the precursor to the United States Open) in 1942 at Forest Hills, Queens, and the singles title at Wimbledon in 1949. He won three United States men's doubles championships with Jack Kramer (1940-41, '47) as well as four Davis Cup titles. From 1940 to 1951, he was ranked in the top 10 nationally nine times, including No. 1 in 1942. From 1946 to 1949 he ranked second in the world.
        In 1942, Schroeder, a tenacious player with a powerful overhead stroke, became only the second player to win the national intercollegiate and the United States Nationals titles in the same year. He graduated from Stanford University with an economics degree that year.
        His No. 1 ranking in 1942 was further bolstered when, again at Forest Hills, he also won the intercollegiate doubles title with his Stanford classmate Larry Dee, and the United States Nationals mixed doubles title with Louise Brough.
        A native of Newark, Frederick Rudolph Schroeder moved to Southern California as a child and learned tennis there under Perry Jones, whose program produced stars like Bobby Riggs, Gene Mako and Kramer, who became Schroeder's lifelong friend and doubles partner.
        As students at Stanford, he and Kramer were 19 in 1940, when they became the youngest team to capture the men's doubles at the United States Nationals. They defended the title the next year but were unable to do so in 1942, when Kramer was stricken with appendicitis.
        Just days after winning his 1942 title in the men's singles, Schroeder enlisted in the Navy, serving on destroyers and as a fighter pilot in World War II until his discharge in 1945.
        After the war, he returned to the West Coast to establish himself in business and have a family with his wife, the former Ann de Windt, whom he had married in 1944. He is survived by his sons John, of Encinitas, Calif.; Richard, of Las Vegas; and Robert, of Denver; and a sister, Janet, of Arizona.
        When he was named a vice president by his employer, a commercial refrigeration equipment company, in 1949, he decided not to follow Kramer onto the professional tennis circuit. Schroeder always said he took his tennis far too emotionally to allow him to treat it as a full-time job.
        Schroeder competed sparingly in tournaments, playing only often enough with Kramer to maintain a doubles ranking of third in the nation in 1946. Kramer, the national singles champion at the time, and Schroeder played every match for the 1946 Davis Cup final in Australia, and the two defeated Australia, 5-0. They won their third national doubles title together at Forest Hills after the war, in 1947. Schroeder continued to play in the Davis Cup until he retired from tennis in 1951.
        In 1949 at Wimbledon, Schroeder, using his vacation time to enter the tournament and with Kramer as his coach, won his only other Grand Slam singles title. He did it the hard way, surviving with daring volleying in four five-setters and a total of 29 sets. He also captivated London as an outgoing, straightforward Yank smoking a corn-cob pipe and earned the nickname ''Lucky Ted'' there for his five-set escapes.
        He ended his summer at Forest Hills, with his first appearance at the United States Nationals since his victory in 1942. There, he faced Pancho Gonzalez in a memorable final in which Schroeder won an epic first set, 18-16. He then squandered a two-sets-to-none lead and lost the match.
        Schroeder refused offers to turn professional and joust with Kramer on the pro circuit. Instead, he maintained his amateur status and went back to work in California, where he and Kramer bought several racehorses together.
        Correction:  June 6, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on May 27 about the former tennis star Ted Schroeder misstated the university affiliation of Jack Kramer, with whom he won three United States men's doubles championships. Mr. Kramer attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla., not Stanford University.
      