
        Bishop James O. Mote of the Anglican Catholic Church, who helped start a revolt in the Episcopal Church after it voted to ordain women in the late 1970's, died on April 29 in Indianapolis, his hometown. He was 84.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his brother, Richard, of Indianapolis.
        Bishop Mote, then the rector of St. Mary's Church, an Episcopal parish in Denver, called a meeting of his congregation in November 1976, two months after the General Convention of the national Episcopal Church adopted a policy allowing women to become priests. By a two-thirds majority, the parishioners of St. Mary's voted to secede.
        ''It's very painful,'' Father Mote said at the time, ''but when you see the whole Protestant Episcopal Church entering into heresy, schism and apostasy, it's devastating.''
        Within a year, dozens of other Episcopal parishes around the country followed the precedent set by St. Mary's, splitting off from the national church and forming three small, conservative denominations, including Bishop Mote's Anglican Catholic Church.
        Robert Bruce Mullin, a professor of church history at the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church in Manhattan, said the secession movement of the late 70's was a harbinger of the controversy that has shaken the church since 2003, when the Diocese of New Hampshire chose the Rev. V. Gene Robinson, a noncelibate gay man, as its bishop.
        James Orin Mote, the son of a pharmacist, was born on Jan. 27, 1922. During World War II, as a chaplain's assistant in the Army, he saw action in the Battle of the Bulge. In 1950, he graduated from Canterbury College in Danville, Ind. Two years later, after graduating from the Nashotah House, a seminary in Nashotah, Wis., he was ordained as an Episcopal priest.
        His first church was St. Mary's in Denver, where he stayed for four decades, even after being consecrated as a bishop in the Anglican Catholic Church.
        Besides his brother, Bishop Mote is survived by a sister, Phyllis Clark of Jupiter, Fla.
      