
        Frederick Ted Castle, an experimental novelist and New York art critic, died on May 16 in Far Rockaway, Queens. He was 67 and lived in Brooklyn.
        His death, after a long illness, was announced by Bruce McPherson, his publisher.
        Frederick Corson Castle Jr. was born Aug. 7, 1938, in Lockport, N.Y. He adopted the name Ted while at Williams College. Mr. Castle attended the Columbia University School of Journalism and in the early 1960's worked for The New York Times Magazine, until a newspaper strike in 1963, when he began to write his novel ''Anticipation.'' Completed in 1966 but not published until 1984, the novel was described by Mr. McPherson as ''an unholy marriage of Gertrude Stein and James Joyce.''
        It is still in print, as is Mr. Castle's second novel, ''Gilbert Green: The Real Right Way to Dress for Spring,'' a roman à clef based on Andy Warhol's Factory.
        Mr. Castle began writing about art after Warhol was a passenger in the taxicab he was driving in 1967. He continued to write freelance criticism for Artforum, Art in America and other art journals until 2001.
        He served as a correspondent for the London-based Art Monthly for 25 years, and wrote many exhibition catalog essays about contemporary artists, including Pat Steir, Arman, Alice Neel, and Carolee Schneemann.
        In 1969, Mr. Castle and the filmmaker Leandro Katz founded the Vanishing Rotating Triangle Press, which published poetry and other writings in English/Spanish editions that were often issued free in samizdat form.
        The press, which stayed in business until about 1978, published works by John Ashbery, Gerard Malanga , Guy Debord, and the first two novels of Kathy Acker, the experimental fiction writer.
        Mr. Castle's first marriage to Janet Craver Castle Winston ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Neuman; his brother, Douglas Bishop Castle, of Williamsburg, Va.; his sister, Marcia Castle Durham, of Salem, Ore.; and his son, Jesse Winston, of Atlanta.
      