
        Ted Berkman, an author and screenwriter best known for his book ''Cast a Giant Shadow'' and the movies ''Fear Strikes Out'' and ''Bedtime for Bonzo,'' died on May 12 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92.
        The cause was cancer, his nephew, Joel Blau, said.
        Over a 60-year career that included stints in print and broadcast journalism, Mr. Berkman wrote seven books and seven movies. He started as a photo assignment editor at The New York Mirror in the 1930's. In World War II he served as the Middle East chief of the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service, a predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. In 1946, as a radio correspondent for ABC, he provided an eyewitness account of the bombing of the King David Hotel in Jerusalem by Jewish terrorists.
        The Middle East conflict continued to be a focus of Mr. Berkman's work. His book ''Cast a Giant Shadow: The Story of Mickey Marcus, Who Died to Save Jerusalem'' (Doubleday, 1962), is a biography of a Brooklyn-born West Point graduate who died in the 1948 war for the establishment of Israel. The 1966 movie based on Mr. Berkman's book starred Kirk Douglas.
        Mr. Berkman's 1969 book, ''Sabra'' (Harper & Row), profiled a dozen native-born Israeli fighters in the 1967 Six Day War.
        Mr. Berkman's film credits include the 1951 comedy ''Bedtime for Bonzo,'' starring Ronald Reagan. The story of a college professor who tries to teach human morals to a chimpanzee, it did not receive rave reviews.
        In 1957 Mr. Berkman wrote, with his brother-in-law Raphael Blau, the screenplay for ''Fear Strikes Out,'' in which Anthony Perkins played Jimmy Piersall, a Boston Red Sox outfielder who battled mental illness while achieving baseball stardom. The New York Times film critic Bosley Crowther called it ''a first-rate psychological film.''
        Edward Oscar Berkman was born on Jan. 9, 1914, in Brooklyn. He graduated from Cornell University in 1933. His marriage to Anna Hrae White in 1956 ended in divorce. He leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  May 31, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Ted Berkman, an author and screenwriter, omitted a writing credit for the movie ''Bedtime for Bonzo.'' The script for the film was by Raphael David Blau and Mr. Berkman, not just Mr. Berkman.
      