
        Hugh B. Patterson Jr., who was the publisher of The Arkansas Gazette in 1957 when that newspaper was thrust into national prominence for its stand against segregated schools during a federal-state confrontation, died Monday in Little Rock, Ark., where he lived. He was 91.
        His son Ralph B. Patterson announced the death.
        By supporting desegregation, The Gazette suffered severe losses in advertising and circulation. It also won two Pulitzer Prizes for its coverage.
        The Little Rock confrontation was instigated by Gov. Orval E. Faubus, who called out the Arkansas National Guard to block nine blacks from enrolling at Central High School. The school board was under a federal court order to desegregate the school.
        President Dwight D. Eisenhower eventually sent in troops to enforce the court order and escort the students past a crowd of angry whites.
        The Gazette's decision to oppose Mr. Faubus and support desegregation was made largely by Mr. Patterson and Harry S. Ashmore, the executive editor. Its senior owner and editor, J. N. Heiskell, the son of a Confederate colonel under Gen. James Longstreet, was reluctant to go against the South's tradition of racial segregation, even though he disdained the white mobs and segregationist leaders.
        Mr. Heiskell, the editor from 1902 until his death in 1972, was also Mr. Patterson's father-in-law. Mr. Patterson once told an interviewer that Mr. Heiskell's reluctance was overcome at a family dinner when Mr. Patterson and his wife, Louise, persuaded him that his grandchildren should not have to grow up in a racially unjust society. For its coverage of the confrontation, The Gazette was awarded a Pulitzer Prize for public service and another for editorials written by Mr. Ashmore, who died in 1998.
        The paper also received a Freedom House award. But thousands of readers canceled their subscriptions, and a segregationist group, the Citizens Council, pressed for an advertising boycott. The boycott failed because large advertisers, especially department store owners, refused to honor it.
        Mr. Patterson once recalled the day a Gazette delivery truck was blocked by a large group of white men in a town in eastern Arkansas.
        The driver, he said, told the men: ''I don't have anything to do with the content of the paper. I'm in the business of distributing these, and that's my business. And what I'm going to do is to back up about 500 yards, and when I get here again, I'm going to be going about 50 miles an hour, and I'm not going to stop.'' The crowd parted.
        Unlike most other Southern publishers, who either actively opposed the civil rights movement and the Supreme Court's desegregation efforts or simply kept quiet, Mr. Patterson was part of a small but influential minority who bucked generations of history to work for an end to legal segregation.
        All suffered varying degrees of opprobrium from the region's white majority, but Mr. Patterson's paper, among the larger dailies, was hardest hit. Its losses amounted to $1 million or more, a serious setback for a family-owned newspaper at that time, Ralph Patterson said.The Gazette under Hugh Patterson's financial leadership not only recovered its losses but also went on to set Arkansas records in circulation and advertising. In addition, it became a magnet for bright young journalists.
        Mr. Patterson was the Gazette's publisher for 40 of the 42 years he worked there. He modernized the paper's equipment and financial structure and created an accounting system that many other papers emulated. Hugh Baskin Patterson Jr. was born Feb. 8, 1915, in Cotton Plant, Miss., to Hugh B. and Martha Rebecca Wilson Patterson. The family moved to Arkansas when Hugh was a boy. He grew up in Pine Bluff, went to work for a Little Rock printing company in 1936, then spent two years in New York as a salesman for the Art Metal Construction Company.
        Mr. Patterson was hired by Mr. Heiskell in 1946 after leaving the Army Air Corps. He served as a supply officer during World War II and was discharged as a major.
        Mr. Patterson's college career at Henderson State Teachers College in Arkadelphia, Ark., was cut short because of financial pressures.
        He married Louise Heiskell in 1943. They had two sons and were divorced in 1988. In 1992, he married Olivia Owen Nisbet, who survives him.
        In addition to his wife and son Ralph, of Little Rock and Blowing Rock, N.C., Mr. Patterson is survived by another son, Carrick H., of Little Rock; a stepson, A. Wyckliff Nisbet, and a stepdaughter, Olivia Wyatt; nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Patterson left The Gazette shortly after he and the Heiskell family sold it to the Gannett Company in 1986. He became bitterly critical of Gannett's ownership.
        Founded in 1819, The Gazette was closed in 1991 and merged with its politically conservative rival, The Arkansas Democrat, after years of fierce competition.
      