
        Eric Namesnik, who won silver medals in swimming in the 1992 and 1996 Olympics and became a coach of several Olympians, died Wednesday at a hospital in Ypsilanti, Mich., four days after he was critically injured in an automobile accident on an icy road. He was 35 and lived in Saline, Mich.
        USA Swimming, the sport's national governing body, said he died of brain injuries sustained in the two-car crash. After the crash, he was placed in a medically induced coma to reduce swelling surrounding the brain.
        Namesnik, known as Snik, won Olympic medals in the 400-meter individual medley. In 1992, he finished second to Tamas Darnyi of Hungary, and in 1996, he finished behind Tom Dolan, his teammate at the University of Michigan.
        ''Snik pushed me harder in training than anyone,'' Dolan said on a CarePages Web site after Namesnik's death. ''That challenge was in my face each day in the lane next to me. We pushed each other to heights beyond our dreams.''
        In 1991 and 1993, Namesnik was ranked first in the world in the 400 individual medley, which combines four strokes. He was the first United States swimmer to finish the event in less that 4 minutes 15 seconds, and he broke the American record four times and won eight national titles. From 1989 to 1993, he swam on four Michigan teams that won Big Ten Conference championships.
        From 1997 to 2004, he was an assistant at Michigan, where he helped coach 11 Olympians. When Jon Urbanchek retired in 2004 as the head coach, Namesnik was a candidate to replace him. The job went to Bob Bowman, who was coaching Michael Phelps and other club swimmers in Baltimore.
        ''Eric didn't get the job,'' Urbanchek said in a telephone interview, ''because Bob had more experience. Eric left the university and took over Wolverine Aquatics Swim Club, an age-group club. He started with 60 kids, and in a year and a half had it up to 180 kids.''
        The day before the accident, Namesnik merged his club with Club Wolverine, which Bowman also coached.
        Eric John Namesnik was born Aug. 7, 1970, in Butler, Pa. He earned a bachelor's degree in kinesiology from Michigan in 1993 and a master's in educational leadership from Eastern Michigan in 1997.
        In 1997, he married Kirsten Silvester, a statistics lecturer and a former swimmer at Michigan. He is survived by her; a son, Austin; and a daughter, Madison.
        ''He was second in the Olympics, second in the N.C.A.A.'s and never won anything, but he set the bar of excellence so high that nobody can touch it,'' Urbanchek said.
      