
        Eric Gregg, who umpired in the major leagues for more than two decades while battling a craving for food and drink that spotlighted health concerns surrounding overweight umpires, died yesterday in Philadelphia. He was 55.
        His death was announced by his son Kevin, who said he had a stroke on Sunday, The Associated Press reported.
        Gregg was a full-time National League umpire from 1978 to 1999 and worked the 1989 World Series, four League Championship Series, two Division Series and an All-Star Game. He was the third black umpire in the major leagues, following Emmett Ashford, who made his debut in the American League in 1966, and Art Williams, who began umpiring in the National League in 1972.
        One of Gregg's best-remembered moments came in Game 5 of the 1997 National League Championship Series, when his generous strike zone helped the Florida Marlins' Liván Hernández strike out 15 Atlanta batters. Braves players were angry, but Gregg maintained that his strike zone was in line with the way he always judged pitches.
        Gregg was an affable man who danced with the Phillie Phanatic mascot between innings. But he was known for a continuing and serious issue -- his battle against obesity.
        He was about 6 feet 3 inches, but his weight at times approached 400 pounds, and he was perennially embarking on weight-reduction programs, only to succumb to his enormous appetite.
        ''The spreads in the umpires' rooms are fantastic,'' he told the Knight-Ridder newspapers in February 1997. ''I'd be attacking them while I still had my uniform on,'' he said of his post-game meals. ''Five, six beers, snacks. Then it's time to go out and have a big meal. Four, five more beers, bottle of wine, more food, go to bed.''
        One of Gregg's best friends among the umpires was John McSherry, who weighed perhaps 370 pounds.
        McSherry was umpiring at home plate in Cincinnati in the opening game of the 1996 season when he collapsed and died of a heart attack at age 51. His death shook Gregg, who feared that his own obesity put him in peril for a heart attack or stroke.
        Two weeks after McSherry's death, Gregg enrolled in a weight-reduction program, the fees paid by the National League. He returned to umpiring in July, saying he had lost about 60 pounds. In tribute to McSherry, he wore a silver bracelet reading ''Big John.''
        Gregg was born and raised in Philadelphia. He played high school baseball, but he was already overweight, destroying any chance at a playing career, he recalled in his memoir ''Working the Plate,'' written with Marty Appel. Seeking a way out of the poverty and crime in his inner-city neighborhood, he turned to umpiring, beginning with Little League games while he was a teenager. After attending an umpire school, he began umpiring in the minor leagues at age 20.
        He worked as a part-time umpire in the major leagues from 1975 to 1977, then arrived in the National League full time in 1978.
        Gregg was among 22 umpires who lost their jobs after their resignations, orchestrated by the umpires' union to pressure Major League Baseball into contract concessions, failed as a bargaining tactic. Some umpires were eventually rehired, but Gregg was not. Strapped for money, he worked at a Phillies ballpark restaurant, where fans treated him like a celebrity. In December 2004, he was among several umpires in that dispute who accepted $400,000 in severance pay.
        In addition to his son Kevin, Gregg is survived by his wife, Ramona, and his other children, Eric, Ashley and Jamie, The Associated Press said.
        Amid all his travails with weight, and the premature end of his umpiring career in the labor dispute, Gregg remained proud of his accomplishments. As he told The Associated Press in 2001, ''For a kid from the ghetto, I've done things you've never dreamed of.''
      