
        The conductor Richard Kapp, who founded and led the Philharmonia Virtuosi, a chamber orchestra, and released a series of classical ''greatest hits'' records, died on Sunday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Barbara Borders Kapp.
        Mr. Kapp started his orchestra in 1968, and it became a fixture on the New York-area musical scene until it suspended concerts in 2004, when he became ill. It played often at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Town Hall, the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College and elsewhere.
        The orchestra attracted top-flight musicians and soloists, and its concerts featured folksy talk from the podium by Mr. Kapp. His reviews were uneven, but he worked hard to present a mix of adventurous and popular works.
        ''We don't take ourselves too seriously,'' Mr. Kapp said in a 1980 interview with The New York Times. ''We tend to play less intellectual, more joyous music. We look at this as entertainment, a source of pleasure.''
        In 1977, he recorded ''Greatest Hits of 1720'' for CBS Masterworks, which became a big seller. He followed up with hit parades from 1721, 1790 and the 1900's. They were collections of generally shorter, more accessible works designed to have popular appeal.
        Richard Paul Kapp was born in Chicago on Oct. 9, 1936. A grandfather sold sheet music from a pushcart; his father Paul Kapp started and ran General Music Publishing; an uncle, Jack Kapp, founded the American branch of Decca Records, Mrs. Kapp said.
        Mr. Kapp was a child piano prodigy but went on to study German political history at Johns Hopkins University. He went abroad on a Fulbright fellowship and studied music in Stuttgart, Germany, also working as a vocal coach at the state theater in Basel, Switzerland. Back in the United States, he served as music director of the Opera Theater of the Manhattan School of Music and earned a law degree from New York University.
        Along with his wife, he is survived by three daughters: Joanna Kapp Beacom and Alexandra Kapp Horner, both of Los Angeles, and Madeline W. Kapp, a student at the University of Toronto; a brother, Robert Kapp of Port Townsend, Wash.; a sister, Judith Keenan of Washington; and four grandchildren.
      