
        Leon Lobel, a fourth-generation butcher and part owner of his family's business, the Upper East Side butcher shop Lobel's Prime Meats, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, his son, Evan Lobel, said.
        During the past 52 years at the small shop, Mr. Lobel and his family served many famous customers, including Dolly Parton, Henry A. Kissinger, Harry S. Truman and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
        The meat at Lobel's, especially its dry-aged beef, is not for lighter pocketbooks: a medallion of filet mignon costs more than $60 a pound, while New York strip steak or T-bone steak is more than $40 a pound. A three-pound chicken costs almost $15, nearly triple what one would pay in an average grocery store.
        The price, the family said, indicates the quality of the product.
        Mr. Lobel was consulted as a meat expert, and he appeared on the Food Network, as well as on ''The Merv Griffin Show'' and ''Martha Stewart Living.''
        Along with his brother, sons and nephews, Mr. Lobel, who was born in the Bronx on Aug. 11, 1928, wrote seven books on grilling and cooking meat. Among them was ''Lobel's Prime Cuts: The Best Meat and Poultry Recipes from America's Master Butchers,'' published in 2004.
        The Lobel tradition in New York started when Morris Lobel, whose family had been butchers in Austria since the 1840's, came to the United States in the early 1900's and opened a store on Broadway, on the Upper West Side. In 1954, the family opened the current store on Madison Avenue at 82nd Street.
        The store consistently receives high ratings in the Zagat guide to gourmet marketplaces. In the past few years, it has expanded to include an online shop, Lobel's of New York, at www.lobels.com.
        Mr. Lobel is survived by his wife, Anita, of Boca Raton; his son, Evan, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; two daughters, Linda Angel, of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Wendy, of Manhattan; his brother, Stanley, of Purchase, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
        A granddaughter, Ilana Angel, died of a brain tumor in 1988, at the age of 5, after which Mr. Lobel helped found the Children's Brain Tumor Foundation, a nonprofit organization.
        Mr. Lobel's younger brother, Stanley, is still active in the business, and Evan Lobel and Mr. Lobel's nephews Mark and David Lobel are now part owners, the fifth generation of butchers in the family.
        The sixth generation is in training, and includes Mark Lobel's son Scott, 5, who helps customers at the counter, with the aid of a milk crate.
      