
        Arnold Newman, the portrait photographer whose pictures of some of the world's most eminent people set a standard for artistic interpretation and stylistic integrity in the postwar age of picture magazines, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, said Ron Kurtz, the owner of Commerce Graphics, which represents Mr. Newman.
        A polished craftsman, Mr. Newman first learned his trade by making 49-cent studio portraits in Philadelphia. He went on to become one of the world's best-known and most admired photographers, his work appearing on the covers of magazines like Life and Look, in museum and gallery exhibitions and in coffee-table books.
        Mr. Newman was credited with popularizing a style of photography that became known as environmental portraiture. Working primarily on assignment for magazines, he carried his camera and lighting equipment to his subjects, capturing them in their surroundings and finding in those settings visual elements to evoke their professions and personalities.
        Perhaps his most celebrated image is a 1946 portrait of the composer Igor Stravinsky. Stravinsky, his expression deeply serious, is confined to the bottom left corner of the picture, cropped to his head and shoulders, an elbow resting on the piano, his hand supporting his head. The rest of the photograph is taken up by the raised lid of a large grand piano, strategically silhouetted against a blank wall, which is divided off-center into a gray and white rectangle. The lid forms the reversed shape of a leaning, abstract musical note.
        By contrast, his 1949 portrait of the Modernist artist Jean Arp was taken at such an extreme close-up that the viewer sees only a hand, the right eye and a cheek and a curving, sensuous form that is unidentifiable but evocative.
        Each Newman photograph had a metaphoric quality. For the folk painter Grandma Moses he arranged a homey shot, posing her in her Victorian parlor like the woman in ''Whistler's Mother.'' The fashion photographer Cecil Beaton was captured, beautifully dressed, in the salon of his English country house. For Andy Warhol, Mr. Newman composed a surreal close-up collage in which he cut out Warhol's features and repositioned them askew from where they would normally be.
        The ''environmental'' approach was what largely distinguished Mr. Newman's portraits from those of his contemporaries. Richard Avedon and Irving Penn, for example, preferred to work within the bald white arena of their studios.
        A Face of Evil
        Mr. Newman's methods had more in common with the candid, photojournalistic style of portraiture developed by Henri Cartier-Bresson and Alfred Eisenstaedt. But he was more deliberate about composition; his gift for formal design was always much in evidence. He used a large-format camera and tripod to ensure that every detail of a scene was recorded.
        ''As my own approach took form, it became evident that a good portrait had first to be a good photograph,'' he said in a companion book to a 1986 exhibition, ''Arnold Newman: Five Decades,'' organized by the Museum of Photographic Arts in San Diego. The exhibition was just one of many in his career; beyond his magazine work, he established an enviable reputation in the art world. Gallery exhibitions began presenting his work as early as 1941.
        Mr. Newman's best-known images were in black and white, although he often photographed in color. Several of his trademark portraits were reproduced in color and in black and white. Perhaps the most famous was a sinister picture of the German industrialist Alfried Krupp, taken for Newsweek in 1963. Krupp, long-faced and bushy-browed, is made to look like Mephistopheles incarnate: smirking, his fingers clasped as he confronts the viewer against the background of a assembly line in the Ruhr. In the color version his face has a greenish cast.
        The impression it leaves was no accident: Mr. Newman knew that Krupp had used slave labor in his factories during the Nazi reign and that he had been imprisoned after World War II for his central role in Hitler's war machine.
        ''When he saw the photos, he said he would have me declared persona non grata in Germany,'' Mr. Newman said of Krupp.
        Mr. Newman enjoyed personifying the stereotypically irascible New Yorker. He often used his gregariousness to coax attitudes or gestures from his subjects. But he never endorsed the critical term widely used to describe his style of portraiture.
        ''Although my approach has become popularly known as environmental portraiture,'' he wrote in the early 1980's, ''it only suggests a part of what I have been doing and am doing. Overlooked is that my approach is also symbolic and impressionistic or whatever label one cares to use.''
        He specialized in photographing artists, beginning with those of the New York School of Abstract Expressionist painters, whom he met in New York in the 1940's. He later photographed Picasso, Braque, Miró and other major European Modernists. In the 1960's and 70's his subjects, in addition to Warhol, included Frank Stella, Claes Oldenburg and Louise Nevelson.
        He was also admired for his photographs of American presidents, from John F. Kennedy to Gerald R. Ford, as well as world leaders like Haile Selassie of Ethiopia and David Ben-Gurion of Israel. His portrait of President Lyndon B. Johnson was chosen as the official White House portrait.
        Arnold Abner Newman was born March 3, 1918, in New York, the second of three sons of a clothing manufacturer and his wife. When he was 2, his father's business failed and the family moved to Atlantic City, where his father became a dry-goods merchant and managed several small hotels. During the Depression the family lived part of the year in Miami Beach, where Mr. Newman's father operated resort hotels.
        After graduating from high school in Miami Beach in 1936, he studied painting at the University of Miami, initially on a scholarship. But after two years he was unable to afford college and decided to pursue a burgeoning interest in photography, moving to Philadelphia to work for a chain of portrait studios.
        There he socialized with students at what was then called the Philadelphia Museum School of Industrial Arts, where Alexey Brodovitch, the influential art director of Harper's Bazaar, was teaching. The experimental approach that Brodovitch encouraged apparently found its way to Mr. Newman through those students. His photographs soon showed a penchant for graphic simplicity.
        In his time away from work, Mr. Newman began to take social-documentary photographs in the manner of Walker Evans and Dorothea Lange and, more creatively, to produce graphically abstract views of city walls, porches and chairs.
        He returned to Florida in 1939 to manage a portrait studio in West Palm Beach. Three years later he opened his own business, the Newman Portrait Studio in Miami Beach, which he ran during World War II. He traveled to New York frequently and had the first exhibition of his work at the A. D. Gallery in Manhattan. He met Alfred Stieglitz, Beaumont Newhall and Ansel Adams, then the most influential figures in art photography.
        Artists in Their Habitats
        Beginning in 1941 he produced a series of cutout collages, in which he engineered Cubist effects by cutting his prints into various shapes and combining them to form disjointed images. He returned to this technique in the 1960's in his interpretive portrait of Warhol as well as similar ones of the artist Dan Flavin and the writer HenryMiller, among others.
        It was also in 1941 that he took his first artistically successful environmental portraits. And it was then that he began photographing artists in earnest. Among his subjects were Marc Chagall, Marcel Duchamp and Piet Mondrian. Most are pictured with examples of their work.
        He stayed with that approach for essentially the rest of his career, with some exceptions: his most widely reproduced portrait of Picasso, for example, taken in France in 1954, shows only the artist in close-up, holding his hand to his brow.
        In 1945 the Philadelphia Museum of Art organized an exhibition of Newman portraits of artists. When the show, ''Artists Look Like This,'' closed, the museum bought the prints.
        After the war, in 1946, Mr. Newman relocated to New York and opened Arnold Newman Studios. By now Brodovitch was well aware of Mr. Newman's growing renown and gave him assignments to take portraits for Harper's Bazaar. One was the famous Stravinsky photograph, which was rejected for publication. But soon Life, Look and Holiday were calling, too. In 1947 alone, four of Mr. Newman's photographs appeared on the cover of Life magazine, and in the 1950's, Life and other magazines sent him to Europe, Africa and Asia to take portraits.
        Despite his many assignments for Life, he never joined its celebrated photography staff, choosing to remain a freelancer even after his marriage, in 1949, to Augusta Rubenstein and the birth of their two sons, Eric and David. All survive Mr. Newman, Eric living in Minneapolis and David in Portland, Ore. Four grandchildren also survive him.
        In 1953 Mr. Newman's work was the subject of a second museum exhibition, at the Art Institute of Chicago, and by the end of the 50's his pictures were so pervasive -- many as advertising assignments -- that he was voted one of the world's 10 best photographers in a poll published by Popular Photography magazine.
        A Focus on World Leaders
        In the 1960's, however, Mr. Newman's environmental approach to the portrait lost favor as rebellious and Surrealist-influenced styles gained in popularity. For some critics and collectors, what once looked so fresh and original now seemed too facile; his attention to powerful and successful men and women appeared, in those counterculture days, as too flattering; and his immaculate work seemed too sleek and too well-made. But the rise of the art market for photographs in the 1970's brought his work to the attention of a new generation.
        In 1979 the National Portrait Gallery in London commissioned Mr. Newman to create portraits of Britain's leading cultural and intellectual figures. The work, appearing in an exhibition and a book called ''The Great British,'' created a stir largely because no British photographer had been deemed adequate to the task. In 1992 the National Portrait Gallery in Washington produced an American counterpart, ''Arnold Newman's Americans,'' using pictures selected from his work of the last 50 years.
        Mr. Newman remained characteristically caustic about the enthusiasm for what is now known as art photography. ''Those who call themselves art photographers are pompous, arrogant egoists,'' he told The Detroit News in 1993.
        Mr. Newman taught photography at Cooper Union for many years, and the book, ''One Mind's Eye,'' a collection of his finest portraits published in 1974, became a popular coffee-table accessory for many collectors. Other books devoted to his work are ''Bravo Stravinksy'' (1967), ''Artists: Portraits From Four Decades'' (1980) and ''Arnold Newman's Americans'' (1992).
        Mr. Newman photographed so many of the world's most prominent and accomplished men and women that it sometimes seemed as if there was no public figure that his lens had left untouched. But there were subjects he generally steered clear of: actors, actresses, rock stars and anyone he considered, as he put it, ''famous for being famous.''
        ''I hate the whole idea of celebrity,'' he said.
      