
        Raymond Davis Jr., a chemist at Brookhaven National Laboratory who won a Nobel Prize in Physics for capturing evanescent particles known as neutrinos from the sun, died on Wednesday at his home in Blue Point, N.Y. He was 91.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Anna.
        The sun, as a result of the fusion reactions that generate light and energy, continually throws out bountiful numbers of neutrinos; billions of solar neutrinos a second are flying through this newspaper right now. But neutrinos are notoriously taciturn particles, only rarely colliding with other particles.
        For decades, Dr. Davis's experiment, deep in a South Dakota mine, created a head-scratching puzzle for physicists, because it found only a third as many neutrinos as theoretical predictions had anticipated. That discrepancy meant either that some part of the physics was flawed -- the theoretical calculations or Dr. Davis's experiment -- or that some new physics was at play
        In the last few years, additional neutrino experiments showed that neutrinos possess a smidgen of mass, which causes the solar neutrinos to change en route from the sun to the earth into varieties not detectable by Dr. Davis's experiment.
        Dr. Davis's became interested in neutrinos after reading about them in 1948. Dr. Davis began his search for neutrinos from the sun around 1960, when theoretical calculations indicated that it might be producing enough high-energy neutrinos to detect them experimentally.
        Detecting a particle that rarely collides with matter requires a large amount of matter to run into. Dr. Davis's detectors were essentially giant tanks of cleaning fluid. Occasionally, a neutrino collides with a chlorine atom in the cleaning fluid molecules, transforming the chlorine into radioactive argon.
        Dr. Davis built his first solar neutrino detector in 1961, in an Ohio limestone mine, 2,300 feet below the surface. But that was not deep enough to shield the detector from cosmic rays, which obscured any signals that might have been created by the neutrino collisions.
        He was able to move his work to the Homestake Gold Mine in the Black Hills, setting up a new detector -- a vat of 100,000 gallons of perchloroethylene, or dry-cleaning fluid -- 4,800 feet underground. For the first few years, the detector saw nothing at all, but that did not deter him.
        ''Ray was the most optimistic person you could ever encounter,'' said Kenneth Lande, a professor of physics at the University of Pennsylvania and a collaborator on the Homestake experiment. ''For Ray, this was a challenge. The greater the challenge, the more fun it was to attack it.''
        Dr. Davis was meticulous, Dr. Lande said, willing to tackle almost every challenge from other physicists. Dr. Lande said that William A. Fowler, an astrophysicist at the California Institute of Technology, asked Dr. Davis if he could inject 100 argon atoms into the detector and then pull them out, to demonstrate that his detection method worked. Argon, a gas, was flushed out by a stream of helium bubbles and then trapped in ultracold charcoal. The number of atoms were counted by observing the radioactive decay. ''Most people would have said, 'Come on,' '' Dr. Lande said. ''Ray went off and he in fact made 100 atoms, put them in and took them out.''
        With refinements, by the mid-1970's, the experiment started counting solar neutrinos, but only one-third as many as predicted. And eventually, Dr. Davis was shown to have done everything right.
        In 2002, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Masatoshi Koshiba of the University of Tokyo and Riccardo Giacconi, now a research professor at Johns Hopkins. Dr. Davis and Dr. Koshiba, who led an effort that confirmed Dr. Davis's findings, were cited for ''contributions to astrophysics, in particular for the detection of cosmic neutrinos.''
        Born in Washington, Raymond Davis Jr. earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland in 1937 and a master's degree, also from Maryland, in 1940. He completed his doctorate in physical chemistry at Yale in 1942. He served in the Army Air Forces from 1942 to 1946 and then worked for two years at Monsanto before joining Brookhaven in 1948.
        From 1971 to 1973, Dr. Davis was a member of the Lunar Sample Return Board of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, helping to analyze dust and rocks collected by Apollo 11.
        Dr. Davis worked at Brookhaven until retiring in 1985. He then joined the University of Pennsylvania as a research professor and continued work at Homestake.
        Dr. Davis was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived three sons, Andrew, of Chicago, Roger, of Center Moriches, N.Y., and Alan, of Seattle; two daughters, Marha Kumler of Honeoye, N.Y., and Nancy Klemm of Webster Groves, Mo.; and 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 3, 2006, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Raymond Davis Jr., a chemist who won a Nobel Prize in Physics for capturing neutrinos from the sun, misspelled the given name of a survivor and referred incompletely to her hometown. She is Dr. Davis's daughter Martha Kumler of Honeoye Falls, N.Y. -- not Marha, of Honeoye.
      