
        Dr. Harold F. Falls, an ophthalmologist whose early studies of inherited abnormalities shed light on how diseases pass between generations, died on May 27 in Brighton, Mich. He was 96.
        Dr. Falls's death was confirmed by his family.
        Beginning in the 1930's, Dr. Falls spent his entire career at the University of Michigan, retiring as a professor of ophthalmology in 1975. He studied patients with retinoblastoma, a tumor of the eye; aniridia, the absence of the iris; anemia and other conditions; and sought out family members with similar problems.
        Dr. Falls made closer observations of his patients' hands, nails and general appearance, looking for abnormalities linked to their diseases. He would then create a family pedigree that traced over time the inheritance of a given family's defective genes. He used his pedigrees to predict the appearance of disease in following generations, and the pedigrees later became a valuable record in helping to isolate and identify individual genes.
        Dr. Paul A. Sieving, an ophthalmologist and the director of the National Eye Institute at the National Institutes of Health, said Dr. Falls's field work ''translated science into the next round and contributed to the DNA studies that have netted the individual genes'' responsible for some inherited conditions.
        Dr. Sieving added: ''Harold Falls was a seminal figure in this country in initiating important genetic studies of eye diseases.''
        In the 1950's, with a British researcher, Edward Nettleship, Dr. Falls described an eye condition most often affecting men, in which a lack of pigmentation leads to vision problems and an extreme sensitivity to light. The condition is known as Nettleship-Falls Syndrome.
        Dr. Falls also made observations, later confirmed by other scientists, about women who have genetic abnormalities, called X-chromosomal traits, that usually manifest themselves as symptoms in men. The women carry the genetic traits, but are not necessarily affected by them, and pass them to succeeding generations.
        Harold Francis Falls was born in Winchester, Ind. He earned an undergraduate degree, a master's degree in ophthalmology and his medical degree from Michigan.
        Dr. Falls, who was also a surgeon, was named an instructor in ophthalmology in 1939. In the 40's, he helped to found the Heredity Clinic at Michigan, and served as its medical director. The clinic is now part of the university's department of human genetics.
        He became a professor in 1959.
        Dr. Falls is survived by his wife, the former Emeline Duckwitz. The couple lived in Brighton. He is also survived by a daughter, Hariette Gray of Houston; two sons, Dr. Timothy, an educator, of Brighton, and Thomas, of Rochester; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      