
        Wilber B. Huston, whose selection by Thomas A. Edison as the nation's ''brightest boy'' in 1929 launched him into the intellectual stratosphere but eventually gave him a solid career on the ground as a rocket scientist for NASA, died on May 25 in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 93.
        Mr. Huston's time in the spotlight began when he was selected in a nationwide search for young geniuses. Edison had issued a warning that has been sounded often in the years since: not enough students were choosing careers in science and engineering.
        Edison hatched an idea to bring attention to the problem. He offered a full four-year college education, with all expenses paid, to the young man chosen by a panel of judges, which would include himself, Henry Ford, George Eastman, Harvey S. Firestone and Charles A. Lindbergh. Finding the brightest girl was never mentioned.
        Wilber Brotherton Huston was then 16, the son of Simeon Huston, an Episcopal minister whose travels had taken the family to Cheyenne, Wyo.; Baltimore; San Antonio and then Seattle, where Wilber attended the Lakeside School. Young Wilber was scientifically inclined -- he had built a crystal radio by age 10 -- and dreamed of attending the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. But knowing that his father could not pay the tuition, room and board of $1,100 a year, he set his sights on the University of Washington.
        Mr. Huston was selected as the representative of the State of Washington and took a cross-country train trip to meet with other states' candidates in New Jersey, where Edison tested them in mathematics, physics, chemistry and cultural and moral issues. (''When do you consider a lie permissible?'')
        When Edison announced that Mr. Huston had won the competition, Mr. Huston recalled in a memoir, ''I was hoisted up on a pair of shoulders and paraded up to the judges.'' The group was treated to a cruise around Manhattan on Mayor Jimmy Walker's yacht.
        He was no longer simply Wilber B. Huston. Tapped by the great man, Mr. Huston was known from then on as ''Edison's smartest boy'' or ''America's Brightest Boy.'' His every move was chronicled. At M.I.T., a bout of scarlet fever in November 1929 merited coverage, as did his ''kidnapping'' in a hazing incident. (He escaped from the kidnappers' car by pulling the key out of the ignition and bolting.)
        Mr. Huston expressed some irritation over his celebrity and surveillance, telling The New York World in 1929 that he disliked being referred to by variants on ''smartest boy.''
        ''I'm not the brightest boy,'' he said, ''Nor am I going to be Edison's successor.''
        Edison selected another ''Brightest Boy,'' Arthur O. Williams, the next year, and then discontinued the contest as the Great Depression gripped the nation. Edison died in 1931.
        Many prodigies who attain celebrity at a tender age come through the experience with the wounds of fame, but Mr. Huston pursued a career and life that radiated normality.
        In 1935, he was working as a research assistant in a laboratory run by Theodore Edison, one of Thomas Edison's sons, when he announced that he had joined an evangelical Christian organization, the Oxford Group, which emphasized changing the world by achieving personal change.
        Not long after, however, Mr. Huston returned to research and became, perhaps inevitably, one of the nation's first rocket scientists. By 1944 he was working at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, the agency that would become NASA. While working at the Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., he met Dorothy Beadle, known as Dot, a mathematician working as what was then known as a computer. They married in 1946.
        He later joined the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., where he was mission director for the launching of seven weather satellites. He retired from government to do private consulting work in 1974. He and his wife retired to Florida 14 years later.
        Mrs. Huston died in 1996, and Mr. Huston moved in with his youngest child, Kathryn Grant, in Fountain Hills.
        When she was growing up, Ms. Grant recalled, her father, caught up in raising his six children, did not speak of his early fame. Along with Ms. Grant, his survivors include a brother, John A.; three sons, Herbert A., of Laurel, Md., David A., of Carlisle, Pa., and Thomas A., of Hanover; another daughter, Patricia Thorpe of Glenn Dale, Md.; 13 grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson.
        In his 80's, Mr. Huston set off on a vigorous round of world travels that included trips to Africa and Antarctica. On a cruise along the coast of East Africa, he met a recent widow from Oregon and struck up a December-December romance, Ms. Grant said.
        The woman came to stay with him during a hospital stay. Mr. Huston asked his daughter what the nurses had thought when they came into his hospital room and found a woman lying next to him in bed.
        ''Dad,'' she recalled telling him, ''they were all jealous.''
        Mrs. Grant said her father had donated his brain to M.I.T.
      