
        Kenneth R. Thomson, a shy art collector who built Canada's largest fortune by transforming his father's trans-Atlantic newspaper business into one of the world's leading providers of electronic data and information, died on Monday. He was 82.
        Mr. Thomson died unexpectedly in his Toronto office, said Jason Stewart, a spokesman for the Thomson Corporation, the information company controlled by the family. The Globe and Mail, the Toronto newspaper of which Mr. Thomson was chairman, reported the cause as a heart attack.
        Unlike his father, Roy, a sometimes bombastic man who was known for taking risks and managing even the smallest details of operations, Mr. Thomson maintained a low profile and often relied on professional managers to steadily evolve the family business after his father died in 1976.
        Under Roy Thomson, the company's operations had become heavily weighted toward Britain and included The Times, The Sunday Times and a leading travel agency.
        His son, however, moved to shift the focus back toward North America early in his tenure.
        That was partly the result of a bitter labor lockout at The Times and The Sunday Times in 1978 that suspended publication of the newspapers for almost a year.
        In 1981, Thomson sold the two newspapers to Rupert Murdoch for £14 million. The price was widely regarded as unusually low given that the lockout alone had cost Thomson about £70 million.
        After shifting Thomson's headquarters to Toronto from London in 1978, Mr. Thomson bought Wadsworth, a textbook publisher, in what was the first in a series of steps that would take it away from newspapers and toward the sale of specialized information to students and professionals.
        While Mr. Thomson was willing to part with The Times, one of his father's prized possessions, he did not immediately move out of newspapers.
        In 1980, he won control of a Canadian newspaper chain that included The Globe and Mail in a heated bidding war with several other investors, including Conrad M. Black.
        With FP Publications, Thomson became the largest newspaper group in Canada. A move that soon followed, however, brought the company unwanted attention.
        Soon after acquiring FP in 1980, Thomson closed its newspaper in Ottawa while Southam, the second-largest publisher in Canada at the time, shut down in Winnipeg simultaneously. The result was that each of the companies had control over the newspaper market in a large city. That touched off a government inquiry, which produced a report that was highly critical of Mr. Thomson. Legislative proposals to curb newspaper ownership emerged from that study, but did not become law. The two companies and some of their executives were acquitted on charges of criminal conspiracy.
        From that point, Thomson stopped buying major newspapers in Canada. It largely sought out small but often highly profitable papers in the United States. Mr. Thomson also directed his personal fortune into other areas. At one time, he owned the Hudson's Bay Company, the former fur trader founded in 1670 that became Canada's largest department store chain.
        Earnings from newspapers, as well as a highly successful 1971 investment in North Sea oil that Mr. Thomson helped his father engineer, financed the company's shift into the business of selling specialized, often expensive, information to lawyers, physicians, educators and students through the Internet.
        By the end of the 1990's, Thomson was out of the newspaper business. The company, which had a value of about $500 million when he succeeded his father in 1976, is now worth about $29.3 billion. Mr. Thomson held about 70 percent of its shares. At Thomson's annual meeting just more than a year ago, the company's chief executive, Richard J. Harrington, described the company as being ''Google for the high-end professional user.''
        Mr. Thomson stayed involved with newspapers through his family's private holding company, Woodbridge. It holds 40 percent of Bell Globemedia, which owns The Globe and Mail as well as CTV, Canada's largest private television network.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Thomson rarely appeared in his newspapers or any other publications to discuss business or his personal life. Journalists occasionally had more success, however, coaxing him to talk about art collecting. While Mr. Thomson had an extensive collection, he particularly favored works by Cornelius Krieghoff, a Dutch painter who depicted life in early Canada.
        While one of his paintings has appeared on the front page of The Globe and Mail each Christmas in recent years and a Hudson's Bay store in Toronto had a small gallery, most of Mr. Thomson's work has not been seen by the public. But in 2002, Mr. Thomson announced that he was donating about 2,000 pieces to the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto. He also gave 50 million Canadian dollars toward a museum expansion that was designed by Frank Gehry, who was raised in Toronto, as well as an endowment of 20 million Canadian dollars.
        At the time of his death, Forbes magazine ranked Mr. Thomson as the ninth-richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $19.6 billion. For someone with such great wealth, however, Mr. Thomson lived comparatively modestly. He was often sighted in Toronto grocery stores doing his own shopping, and while he owned a Rolls-Royce, he did not have a driver for many years and during business hours he parked the car in a Hudson's Bay store's public garage. Mr. Thomson usually flew economy class, and his suits did not appear to be expensive.
        While he inherited the British title Lord Thomson of Fleet from his father, Mr. Thomson never used it outside of Britain, nor did he ever take his seat in the House of Lords.
        That modesty and those economies may have been a reflection of the long period in his youth when his father's early business ventures brought the family financial uncertainty rather than wealth.
        ''The early part of my life was extremely simple,'' he told Saturday Night, a Canadian magazine that is now defunct, in 1980. ''And, you know, it makes me wonder a bit about my own children. They have only known affluence. But my father went through quite a few years of learning.''
        Mr. Thomson is survived by his wife, Marilyn; three sons, David, who succeeded him as chairman of Thomson in 2002, Peter and Taylor; and a sister, Audrey Campbell.
        Correction:  June 15, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Kenneth R. Thomson, the Canadian publishing magnate, referred incorrectly to one of his surviving children. Taylor is his daughter, not a son.
      