
        Moe Drabowsky, who set a World Series strikeout record for a relief pitcher but was equally renowned as one of baseball's most accomplished pranksters, died Saturday in Little Rock, Ark. He was 70.
        His death was announced by Liz Caldwell, a spokeswoman for the University of Arkansas Medical Center, where he had been treated for multiple myeloma, a form of cancer.
        Drabowsky, a strapping right-hander who pitched for eight teams from 1956 to 1972, was remembered for his feat with the Baltimore Orioles in Game 1 of the 1966 World Series. Relieving Dave McNally in the third inning, Drabowsky struck out 11 Los Angeles Dodgers in six and two-thirds shutout innings, yielding one hit. Mixing fastballs and sliders, he surpassed Jess Barnes's record of 10 strikeouts in relief for the New York Giants in 1921. He tied a Series record for most consecutive strikeouts -- six -- set by Cincinnati Reds starting pitcher Hod Eller in 1919.
        Drabowsky's years in the bullpen gave him time to plot practical jokes. He tormented his teammates with snakes, once placing a boa constrictor inside the uniform of Orioles catcher Charlie Lau while it was hanging in the clubhouse. During a game at Kansas City in 1966, he phoned the Athletics' bullpen -- he knew the number because he pitched for them the year before -- and ordered Lew Krausse, his former teammate, to warm up. Krausse did so, presumably figuring that the voice was that of Manager Al Dark. That puzzled the A's starter, Jim Nash, who was pitching a shutout.
        Drabowsky victimized Commissioner Bowie Kuhn with a hot foot in the Orioles' clubhouse during the 1970 World Series, when he pitched against Cincinnati in his second stint with Baltimore.
        ''I struck a book of matches under his foot and then got a can of lighter fluid, ran a trail all the way back through the room about 40 feet away, all the way into the training room,'' Drabowsky told Bob Cairns in ''Pen Men,'' a book of interviews with relief pitchers. ''So I lit it up from back there and all of a sudden you see the flame snake out to where the book was, and it exploded and it lit Bowie up real good.''
        Myron Walter Drabowsky was born in Ozanna, Poland, came to the United States as a child and received an economics degree from Trinity College in Hartford. He made his major league debut with the Chicago Cubs as a hard-throwing starter, but an arm injury confined him to a relief role much of the time after that. He had a career record of 88-105 in 17 seasons and was later a pitching instructor in the Orioles' organization.
        Drabowsky, who lived in Sarasota, Fla., is survived by his wife, Rita; his daughters Myra Beth Morris and Laura Anne Nevell; his stepsons Bob and David DeJonge; a stepdaughter, Lisa Kelley; a sister, Marion Freidhoff; his mother, Frances Drabowsky; and stepgrandchildren, The Baltimore Sun said.
        Drabowsky never lost his penchant for pranks. Two decades after his last game, he slipped a boa constrictor onto the shoulder of his former Orioles teammate Paul Blair at a fantasy camp.
        ''He screamed and did a fantastic lateral move about 50 feet,'' Drabowsky recalled in ''Pen Men.'' ''And after I did it, I found out that he'd just had arthroscopic surgery on his knee. So I'll tell you, I was really impressed by that doctor's work. That was unbelievable the way he moved.''
      