
        William G. Hundley, whose Brooklyn street smarts made him first a leader in the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations' fight against organized crime and then a sought-after defense lawyer for powerful people, died Sunday at his home in Vienna, Va. He was 80.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his son James.
        Mr. Hundley achieved his greatest fame for representing people like Attorney General John N. Mitchell in his Watergate trial; Tongsun Park, a South Korean rice dealer accused of bribing congressmen; and the lawyer Vernon E. Jordan Jr. when his efforts to find a job for Monica Lewinsky, the White House intern, were in the news.
        He briefly represented President Richard M. Nixon. Last week, Mr. Hundley was still doing research on the case of Kyle Foggo, the recently resigned C.I.A. official accused in a corruption scandal.
        One of his jobs at the Justice Department was supervising the interrogation of Joseph M. Valachi, the first Mafia member to acknowledge the existence of the organization.
        Mr. Hundley's government cases included the prosecution of 13 Puerto Ricans accused of shooting up the House of Representatives in 1954, and that of J. Vincent Keogh, a politically connected New York State Supreme Court justice who was convicted of taking bribes.
        ''I've spent 15 years trying to put people in jail and the next 10 years trying to keep them out,'' Mr. Hundley said in an interview with United Press International in 1977. As it turned out, he was just beginning.
        He developed a reputation not for winning or losing, but in the gray area of judicial compromise. His expertise was in trading a client's guilty plea for a reduced charge or bargaining for his client's immunity if he gave the state evidence against bigger game.
        ''You don't win that much, and you don't always win on the merits,'' Mr. Hundley said in an interview with The Washington Lawyer in 2001. ''You win on technicalities, statute of limitations and things like that.''
        William George Hundley was born on Aug. 16, 1925, in Pittsburgh. When he was 6, his parents moved back to the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, where his mother had grown up.
        In World War II, he was a machine-gun sergeant during the Battle of the Bulge and took part in the capture of a German radio station. He was decorated in the field with a Bronze Star.
        He graduated from Fordham Law School in 1950, departing from the tradition that men in his family became engineers.
        After a year with a Wall Street firm, Mr. Hundley joined the Justice Department in 1951 and was assigned to the unit that prosecuted those suspected of being Communists. In 1958, he became head of the organized crime division.
        Robert F. Kennedy, who became attorney general in 1961, removed Mr. Hundley from his post and made him a special assistant. In a previous job as a Senate crime investigator, Mr. Kennedy had been unhappy with Mr. Hundley's reticence to pursue cases Mr. Kennedy wanted pressed, Victor Navasky wrote in his book ''Kennedy Justice'' (1971).
        In his new job, Mr. Hundley was sent to New York to lead the prosecution of Justice Keogh, whose brother was an influential Democratic congressman and a friend of Mr. Kennedy's father. After his victory, Mr. Hundley was given his old job back.
        With six children to support, he left government service and worked for a year as a special assistant to Pete Rozelle, commissioner of the National Football League, running programs to eliminate gambling.
        Mr. Hundley next set up a partnership with Plato Cacheris, which lasted for 19 years, until 1987. The two had worked together at the Justice Department and specialized in defending white-collar criminal defendants. Mr. Hundley then joined Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, a Washington law firm.
        He represented Mr. Mitchell, the former attorney general, throughout his Watergate travails. Mr. Mitchell was found guilty of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and perjury -- a victim, Mr. Hundley said, of the indisputable evidence of President Nixon's secret tapes and Mr. Mitchell's unbending loyalty to Nixon.
        Despite having heard recorded White House discussions about blaming Mr. Mitchell, he still would not implicate the president. He would ''probably have confessed to murder'' if Nixon asked, Mr. Hundley told Time magazine in 1975.
        In the Washington Lawyer interview, Mr. Hundley told of using subterfuges to control Mr. Mitchell's wife, Martha, as her rage became increasingly unpredictable while her husband was being dragged down. ''She wanted her husband to turn in Nixon,'' he said. ''You might say her instincts were better than his.''
        Mr. Hundley's wife of 46 years, the former Roberta Inglis, died in November. He is survived by his sons William, of Culpeper, Va.; James, of Reston, Va.; John, of Chantilly, Va.; and Richard, of Bethany Beach, Del; his sisters Mary Maddox of Reston, Va.; and Barbara Ruffino of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, Warren, of Kansas City, Mo.; and 12 grandchildren.
        Mr. Hundley's sense of humor was often self-deprecatory, as when he said there was a ''Hundley Wing'' at the federal prison in Allentown, Pa., for his convicted clients.
        During the Watergate trial, Judge John J. Sirica, ordered spectators not to laugh as the tapes were played. Mr. Hundley's response has become almost legendary: ''Judge, how do you feel about crying?'' he asked.
        Correction:  June 16, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about William G. Hundley, a lawyer for many famous defendants, misidentified the location of the federal prison at which he joked there was a ''Hundley Wing'' for his convicted clients. It is in Allenwood, Pa., not Allentown.
      