
        Philip Merrill, an Annapolis publisher and former diplomat who has been missing since he set out for a solitary sail on Saturday afternoon, is now presumed to be dead by his family. He was 72 and lived on the Severn River in Arnold, Md.
        Mr. Merrill's 41-foot sailboat, Merrilly, turned up empty Saturday evening on Chesapeake Bay, and family members said yesterday that they now presume that he has drowned.
        As chairman of Capital-Gazette Communications Inc., Mr. Merrill published Washingtonian, a glossy city lifestyle magazine, as well as The Capital, an Annapolis daily, and five community papers.
        He left publishing in 2003 for an 18-month stint as president and chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. He had served as assistant general to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in the early 1990's, a member of the Defense Department Defense Policy Board from 1983 to 1990 and, before that, counselor to the under secretary of defense.
        But he was best known for owning Washingtonian and for his role at The Capital, which he built into a leading source of news about Annapolis, relying heavily on young journalists willing to work long hours for little pay.
        Mr. Merrill bought the paper as a moribund afternoon daily in 1968 and built its circulation to more than 47,000, from 13,000. He moved national and foreign news to the inside pages and shifted the focus to local news.
        Thomas Kunkel, dean of the University of Maryland journalism school, said he got to know Mr. Merrill after the publisher donated $10 million to the school, now named for him. Mr. Kunkel said Mr. Merrill's focus on local news helped The Capital achieve a strong connection with readers and one of the highest subscription renewal rates in the country.
        He added that Mr. Merrill had ''probably infuriated most of the important figures in Maryland at one time or another,'' saying that ''it was all part of the rough and tumble that he loved.'' He was especially known for aggressive and critical editorials, pounded out on a Royal typewriter.
        Mr. Merrill was born in Baltimore and grew up in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan and in Norwalk, Conn. He graduated in 1955 from Cornell University, where he was editor of The Cornell Daily Sun, and Harvard Business School, and, as a young man, worked as a reporter in New Jersey.
        He also was a longtime benefactor of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, which named its Annapolis headquarters for him. He was a trustee of the foundation as well as of the Aspen Institute, Johns Hopkins University and the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
        Mr. Merrill is survived by his wife, Eleanor, who has taken over his publishing duties; a sister, Suzanne Watson, of Chicago; a son, Douglas, of Shelbourne, Vt.; two daughters, Cathy Merrill Williams of Washington and Nancy Merrill of Arlington, Va.; and four grandsons.
        Correction:  June 16, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Philip Merrill, a Maryland publisher, misstated a journalism post he held as an undergraduate. He was managing editor of The Cornell Daily Sun, not the editor.
      