
        Dr. Morton M. Kligerman, who in the 1950's was an early advocate for using radiation and other experimental methods for treating cancer, died on June 7 in Philadelphia. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Kligerman held professorships in oncology and radiology at the University of Pennsylvania and Yale, where he directed the training of physicians in radiation and other novel therapies that appeared to offer alternatives to difficult operations.
        In the 1970's, while director of the University of New Mexico Cancer Center, he helped oversee experiments that used a device to attack localized tumors too remote for surgery or radiation. The approach, known as pion therapy, sent a stream of high-energy particles through the body and into the tumor; the idea was to overcome the radiation resistance found in certain cells.
        Although they initially found the device promising, Dr. Kligerman and his colleagues did not find enough efficacy to proceed to more intensive trials, although pion therapy remains ''an experiment that may one day be revisited,'' said Dr. Samuel Hellman, a professor of radiation and cellular oncology at the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Hellman, a former physician in chief at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, added, ''Dr. Kligerman was in the vanguard of change for a medical specialty that was very undeveloped in this country, was a masterful clinician and appreciated the importance of the new biology that came out of the 1960's.''
        At Pennsylvania in the 1980's, Dr. Kligerman became interested in a chemical agent, WR-2721, intended to mitigate the damage done to surrounding body tissue during radiation treatment. He led successful clinical trials in which WR-2721 was injected or inserted intravenously, and lectured widely on the results. The agent remains in use, often for head and neck cancers, Dr. Hellman said.
        Morton Medvene Kligerman was born in Philadelphia. He received his medical degree from Temple University and taught there briefly before being named an assistant professor of radiology at Columbia in 1950. In 1958, Dr. Kligerman moved to Yale, became chairman of the department of radiology and remained there until 1972.
        He taught at the University of New Mexico until 1980 and was later named a professor of research oncology at the University of Pennsylvania, retiring in 1988.
        Dr. Kligerman is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Barbara Coleman. The couple lived in Philadelphia. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a son, Thomas, of Maplewood, N.J.; two daughters, Hilary Schroeder of Palo Alto, Calif.; and Valli Budestschu of Paris; a stepson, Roger Wilcox of Albuquerque; a brother, Jerome, of Philadelphia; a sister, Valli Feldman of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      