
        Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, a pioneer of the Israeli kibbutz movement, a contentious colleague of the nation's leaders and the leader of its labor federation in the early 1970's, died on May 19. He was 99.
        Often describing himself as a radical Socialist, Mr. Ben-Aharon took controversial positions that rattled even his allies among the left-leaning founders of the nation he helped create. He said that the country had room ''for the Arab masses'' and that Jerusalem must be shared with Muslims and Christians. He said that Israelis had become too concerned with becoming rich and that the nation was being built on the backs of Arab workers. After the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, in a position presaging current government policy, he called for unilateral withdrawal from some occupied territories.
        Born Yitzhak Nussboim on July 17, 1906, in Bukovina, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire but now part of Romania, Mr. Ben-Aharon joined several Zionist organizations as a teenager, then walked or rode a donkey overland to Palestine in 1928. There he helped found Kibbutz Givat Haim, a Jewish farm commune between Tel Aviv and Haifa, where he remained the rest of his life.
        From 1932 to 1938 he was secretary of the Tel Aviv Workers' Council and for two years was secretary of Mapai, a forerunner of Israel's Labor Party.
        In 1940, Mr. Ben-Aharon volunteered for the Jewish Brigade, part of the British Army, rising to the rank of major. While fighting in Greece in 1941, he was captured by the Germans and spent the next four years in a prisoner of war camp.
        From 1949 to 1965 he was elected to five terms as a member of Parliament and was Israel's transportation minister in the last two of those terms. From 1969 to 1977 he served two more terms in Parliament.
        From 1969 to 1973 Mr. Ben-Aharon was also secretary general of the labor federation Histadrut, often stirring controversy. He allowed Arabs to join the federation for the first time. He criticized Prime Minister Golda Meir for being too close to capitalists.
        During a period of national soul-searching over the founding principles of Israeli society, Mr. Ben-Aharon, a booming orator, gave a speech in April 1972, saying the nation had lost its way in a ''frenzied rat race'' for personal enrichment. ''We have started to worship achievement as a golden calf,'' he said.
        Then, in a 1973 Op-Ed piece in The New York Times, Mr. Ben-Aharon wrote that ''an Arab minority has become part and parcel of the reality of this land.'' And, he said, ''there is plenty of room both for the Jewish people returning here and for the Arab masses -- this is a formula we can live with.''
        Later that year, Mr. Ben-Aharon received withering criticism from the press and even from members of his own faction of the Labor Party when he called for Israel to withdraw unilaterally from some West Bank territories occupied since the 1967 war, because it would reduce antagonism toward Israel and help turn Palestinians into friendly neighbors. In 1995, the Israeli government awarded Mr. Ben-Aharon its highest honor, the Israel Prize.
        Mr. Ben-Aharon is survived by his second wife, Bilha Rubin, and two sons, Yariv and Yishayahu. His first wife, Miriam, died in 1993.
      