
        Donald Reilly, a prominent cartoonist best known for his four-decade-long association with The New Yorker, died on Sunday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Wilton, Conn.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Reilly, who began drawing for The New Yorker in 1964, did 1,107 cartoons and 16 covers for the magazine. His work also appeared in Playboy, Colliers, Look, The Saturday Evening Post, Mad, Harvard Business Review and elsewhere.
        Mr. Reilly's artwork, typically line drawings with a touch of wash, was known for its directness, said Lee Lorenz, a former art editor of The New Yorker.
        ''Most artists sketch things out, make preliminary drawings,'' Mr. Lorenz said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''Don liked his work to be as spontaneous as possible, and he was one of the few artists who would sit down and just do a drawing.''
        Together with their captions, which Mr. Reilly wrote himself, the drawings are anthropology in microcosm. Over the years, he wryly dissected the manners and customs of Homo sapiens, among them yuppie tastes (''I'm thirsty,'' one tot says to another. ''What kind of water does your mother buy?''); mating rituals (''I think we're getting serious,'' a young man confides to his friend. ''She's springing for a credit check and a surveillance on me''); and even euthanasia (''Yes, Oregon's lovely, but we're just here for the suicide'').
        One well-known drawing, from 1994, depicts a distraught cat on a psychiatrist's couch. The caption: ''To this day, I can hear my mother's voice -- harsh, accusing. 'Lost your mittens? You naughty kittens! Then you shall have no pie!' ''
        Mr. Reilly's most recent New Yorker cartoon was published on March 13 of this year. It shows one penguin addressing another, who is suavely attired in sunglasses. ''Oh, get over yourself,'' the first penguin says. ''We were all in the movie.''
        Donald William Reilly was born on Nov. 11, 1933, in Scranton, Pa. He graduated from Muhlenberg College in 1955 with a bachelor's degree in English. After Navy service, he earned a certificate in fine arts from Cooper Union in 1963.
        Mr. Reilly's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Kathleen Collins; a sister, Helene Fagan, of Lancaster, Pa.; three children from his first marriage, Patricia Reilly of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Brian and Michael Reilly, both of Trumbull, Conn.; three stepchildren, Robert Williams of Wilton, John Williams of Bay Shore, N.Y., and Maura Williams of Manhattan; and eight grandchildren.
        On at least one occasion, Mr. Reilly's work influenced public policy, albeit briefly. In 1984, the town council of Garrett Park, Md., voted to install a traffic sign at a troublesome intersection. The sign, taken straight from one of Mr. Reilly's New Yorker cartoons, read: ''At Least Slow Down (formerly STOP).''
        It was too good to last. ''It's been gone some time,'' Ted Pratt, the town administrator of Garrett Park, said in an interview yesterday. ''It got stolen so many times, they gave up.''
      