
        Vincent Sherman, one of Hollywood's last surviving studio-era directors, who made a string of successful movies with legendary stars like Bette Davis, Clark Gable, Humphrey Bogart, Joan Crawford and Errol Flynn in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 99.
        His son, Eric, said Mr. Sherman had died of natural causes at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital.
        Under contract with Warner Brothers for some 20 years, Mr. Vincent turned out one well-made Hollywood vehicle after another for his glittering stars while romancing some of his leading ladies. His career was later damaged by the red scare of the 1950's, but he found success as a television director.
        With Warner Brothers, Mr. Vincent earned a reputation for turning even weak screenplays into workable melodramas. His credits include ''Mr. Skeffington'' (1944), with Bette Davis; ''Adventures of Don Juan'' (1948), with Errol Flynn; and ''Lone Star'' (1952), with Clark Gable and Ava Gardner. He also directed a young Ronald Reagan in ''The Hasty Heart'' (1949).
        Mr. Sherman began his career as a character actor and then turned to screenwriting, signing on with Warner Brothers in 1937. Two years later he made his debut as a director with ''The Return of Dr. X,'' a cartoonish horror story about a young man, played by Bogart, who is killed only to become a bloodthirsty zombie. It was a start.
        His first solid success was ''All Through the Night'' (1942), with Peter Lorre and, once again, Bogart, this time as a former mobster who tackles a nest of Nazi agents in New York. World War II was also the background for ''The Hasty Heart,'' which Mr. Sherman filmed in England. The setting was a British army hospital in Burma, where an American G.I. (Ronald Reagan) befriends a dour Scotsman (Richard Todd), who will die of his wounds.
        Mr. Sherman seemed to have a special affinity for films about women. At least the studio saw it that way. ''If you had done a successful woman's picture, they'd say, 'Give him another woman's picture,' '' he said in an interview many years later.
        There was ''The Hard Way'' (1943), in which Ida Lupino played a driven woman who uses her younger sister's musical talent as a way to escape their dreary mining town. In ''Mr. Skeffington,'' which had a screenplay by Philip and Julius Epstein -- later among the writers of ''Casablanca'' -- Bette Davis was the vain, imperious wife of a financier (Claude Rains), tossing aside lovers like candy wrappers until she ran out of time and good looks.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Sherman directed Crawford in three films about women who brought trouble to those around them. In ''Harriet Craig,'' she was a mean-spirited wife who finally alienates her husband (Wendell Corey); in ''The Damned Don't Cry,'' she was a money-hungry wife who leaves her blue-collar spouse to become a gangster's moll; and in ''Goodbye, My Fancy,'' she played a congresswoman who, on a visit to her alma mater and her first love (Robert Young), manages to stir up a cloud of campus turmoil.
        Rita Hayworth also starred in a Sherman film, ''An Affair in Trinidad,'' a spy-catching melodrama with Glenn Ford set in the Caribbean.
        In his autobiography, ''Studio Affairs: My Life as a Film Director,'' published in 1996, Mr. Sherman, then 90, wrote of having affairs with many of his leading women, including Davis, Crawford and Hayworth. When the book was published, he was interviewed by his son, Eric, who also became a director and writer. Asked about those romantic flings, Mr. Sherman said, ''I wanted to tell a little bit about these three ladies, who were fascinating and very exciting and wonderful women.'' It wasn't just ''a kiss-and-tell thing,'' he added.
        In addition to his son, of Los Angeles, Mr. Sherman is survived by a daughter, Hedwin Naimark, also of Los Angeles, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. His wife of 53 years, Hedda, died in 1984.
        Vincent Sherman was born Abraham Orovitz on July 16, 1906 in the small town of Vienna, Ga. He attended Oglethorpe University in Atlanta and then went to New York, where he changed his name, began looking for theater work and was finally hired as an extra at the Theater Guild, although he had hopes of becoming a writer.
        He was eventually offered a screen test in Hollywood and played a series of gangster roles at Columbia Pictures. When the playwright Elmer Rice offered him work at the Federal Theater, he returned to acting in New York and remained with the company until a friend got him a writer's contract at Warner Brothers.
        Mr. Sherman's career as a Hollywood director began drawing to a close in the 1950's. The studios were fading and his early support of the W.P.A. Theater in New York brought him to the attention of the House Committee on Un-American Activities. The studios, fearful of even a bare suspicion of leftist associations, ''gray-listed'' him, and film work became scarce for several years. One of his last features was ''The Young Philadelphians'' (1959), with Paul Newman as an ambitious lawyer involved with the city's Main Line elite.
        Mr. Sherman soon turned to television and worked steadily into the 1980's, directing episodes of series like ''77 Sunset Strip,'' ''Baretta'' and ''Trapper John M.D.,'' along with made-for-TV movies like NBC's ''The Last Hurrah'' with Carroll O'Connor.
        In all, his career as an actor, screenwriter and director spanned a half-century. But no matter the undertaking, the focus for him, and for his colleagues, was always purely on entertainment. As he wrote in his autobiography, ''We never talked about art.''
        Correction:  June 24, 2006, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about the Hollywood director Vincent Sherman misstated the sequence of work on two films by his collaborators Philip and Julius Epstein. They were among the writers of the screenplay for ''Casablanca'' before they wrote the screenplay for Mr. Sherman's ''Mr. Skeffington,'' not after.
      