
        Edwin S. Cohen, a nationally prominent tax expert and lawyer who helped formulate the tax programs of the Nixon administration, died on Thursday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91.
        The death was announced by his family.
        Working as an associate in the firm of Sullivan & Cromwell in New York, Mr. Cohen made taxes his specialty. He advised government tax writers on the Investment Company Act of 1940, which became the initial legislation for the mutual-fund industry. In the 1950's he became outside counsel for the Investment Company Institute, the national organization of mutual-fund companies.
        In 1949, he joined Orin Root, a former University of Virginia classmate, to form Root, Barrett, Cohen, Knapp & Smith, with headquarters in New York. As a member of that firm, he advised the House Ways and Means Committee when it wrote the basic Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
        President-elect Richard M. Nixon recruited Mr. Cohen, who was considered a policy moderate and not an ideologue, for his Task Force on Tax Reform and made him assistant treasury secretary for tax policy. As such, he testified on Capitol Hill regarding all tax legislation and acted as the government's principal public spokesman on tax matters.
        Mr. Cohen was an important figure in enacting the Tax Reform Act of 1969. He was also Treasury Secretary John B. Connally's adviser for the 1971 International Monetary Conference in Rome. He was named under secretary in 1972 and resigned from the government in 1973 to return to private practice and teaching.
        Edwin Samuel Cohen was born in Richmond, Va., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Richmond in 1933 at the age of 18. He received his J. D. degree at the University of Virginia in 1936 and entered practice in New York.
        He returned to the University of Virginia Law School in 1964 to teach tax law. He became Joseph M. Hartfield professor in 1968, before entering the government. He reclaimed the post when he returned to the private sector in 1973. He became a professor emeritus in 1985 but continued to teach for years.
        While teaching, he worked at the Washington firm Covington & Burling as counsel, becoming a partner in 1977 and senior counsel in 1986.
        Mr. Cohen is survived by his wife of 61 years, Helen Herz Cohen; two sons, Edwin C. of Manhattan and Roger of Denmark, Me.; a daughter, Wendy S. Cohen of Charlottesville; and two grandchildren.
      