
        Henry George Fischer, the Metropolitan Museum of Art curator who helped the Temple of Dendur find a new life in New York as a focal point of the museum, died on Dec. 11 in Newtown, Pa., where he had moved from Sherman, Conn., in 2003. He was 82.
        The death was announced by his family and the museum, where he was curator emeritus of Egyptology.
        Starting with his doctoral dissertation in 1955, Dr. Fischer's books and articles brought a deeper understanding of the culture of ancient Egypt. In particular, he contributed to the study of the previously neglected art and culture of the Egyptian provinces, as distinct from the centers of the rule of the pharaohs.
        He spent virtually his entire scholarly career amid the Metropolitan Museum's Egyptian treasures but was also a student of poetry and early music. He signed on with the museum as an assistant curator in 1958, rose to associate curator in 1963 and was named head of the Department of Egyptology the following year. In 1970, a museum patron, Lila Acheson Wallace, endowed a special chair for him as curator of Egyptology, and he held it until his retirement in 1992.
        He wrote extensively on ancient Egyptian art in the museum's vast collection and elsewhere, and studied the hieroglyphic writing system in detail, focusing on how Egyptian calligraphy and art fit together. That pursuit was distilled in his influential ''The Orientation of Hieroglyphs'' (1977). The Temple of Dendur, commissioned during the Roman period by the Emperor Augustus and built in Nubia, was threatened by the waters rising behind the Aswan High Dam. The Egyptian government removed it to salvage it and donated it to the United States in 1965 as a thank you for American help in rescuing other, weightier structures from submersion, like the imposing monuments of Abu Simbel.
        From 1964 to 1970, Dr. Fischer was a leader of the American Committee to Save Abu Simbel, which was lifted to a dry site. And it was Dr. Fischer who convinced a commission formed by President Lyndon B. Johnson that rival offers of an outdoor site on the banks of the Potomac or the Charles River in Boston would mean the death of the structure, built of fragile sandstone.
        Instead, its stone blocks were loaded in 661 crates and shipped to the Metropolitan Museum, where Dr. Fischer could have it reassembled in the safety of the Sackler Wing of the museum. It has been a magnet for visitors and social events since 1978.
        Henry George Fischer was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Princeton in 1945. He taught English at the American University in Beirut, worked as an assistant at the University of Pennsylvania Museum and received his Ph.D. from the university in 1955. He then went on a university expedition to Egypt and started as an assistant professor of Egyptology at Yale before joining the staff of the Metropolitan.
        In retirement, Dr. Fischer published several collections of poetry, ''Timely Rhymes'' (1993), ''More Timely Rhymes'' (1996), ''Night and Light and the Half-Light'' (1998) and ''Small Ponderings'' (2002). He played the medieval sackbut, a forerunner of the trombone, and wrote its history, ''The Renaissance Sackbut and Its Use Today'' (1984).
        Dr. Fischer is survived by his wife of 53 years, Eleanor Teel Fischer, and a daughter, Dr. Katherine F. Taylor of Chicago.
        Correction:  January 26, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Jan. 18 about Henry George Fischer, curator emeritus of Egyptology at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, misstated the date of his death. It was Jan. 11, not Dec. 11.
      