
        Al Brounstein, a Napa Valley vintner who was an early proponent of both making wines from a single vineyard and charging sky-high prices for them, died on Monday at his home in Calistoga, Calif. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Brounstein established Diamond Creek Vineyards, California's first estate planted exclusively with cabernet sauvignon vines, in 1968, on the steep slopes of Diamond Mountain, just south of Calistoga at the northern end of the Napa Valley. He sought to emulate the great Bordeaux estates by dividing his property into three vineyards, Red Rock Terrace, Gravelly Meadow and Volcanic Hill. Later he added a fourth vineyard, Lake, whose grapes he turned into wine only in exceptional years.
        His first vintage was in 1972. His first vintage of Lake, in 1978, sold for $100 a bottle, a price then unheard of. Later vintages sold for up to $300 a bottle when better-known Napa wines might bring $70. Once asked why he charged so much, Mr. Brounstein said, ''Because I can get it.''
        Albert Jack Brounstein was born in Saskatchewan. Soon thereafter, the family moved to Minneapolis. After graduating from the University of Minnesota, Mr. Brounstein moved to Los Angeles, where he built up a wholesale drug and beauty supply business and developed a taste for wine. He bought the land on Diamond Mountain in 1967 and moved there two years later.
        With its tiny production, about 3,000 cases a year, usually sold out in each vintage, Diamond Creek may classify as California's first cult winery. The vineyards are also small; Red Rock Terrace is seven acres, Gravelly Meadow is five, and Volcanic Hill is eight, while the Lake Vineyard takes up about three-quarters of an acre. Each vineyard has different soil and produces a unique style of wine.
        Mr. Brounstein's wines, at their best, are inky black and tremendously concentrated. The Australian critic James Halliday once wrote that they had ''the subtlety and finesse of a Panzer tank brigade.''
        But Mr. Brounstein said, ''We don't try to appeal to the everyday wine drinker.''
        Mr. Brounstein had raised funds for Parkinson's research since his case was diagnosed in 1983. Some years ago, he and the actor Michael J. Fox, who also has Parkinson's, produced a fund-raiser in Los Angeles called ''The Fox and the Grape.''
        Mr. Brounstein's first wife died in 1965. Besides his second wife, Adelle, known as Boots, he leaves a son, Gary; two stepsons, Philip and Chuck Ross; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      