
        Dr. Melvin L. Moss, an anatomist and former dean of Columbia University's dental school who developed a theory to explain how the jaw, cheekbones and other facial bones grow and come together, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 83.
        His death was announced by Columbia.
        From research that began in the 1950's, Dr. Moss, who was also a dentist, developed the functional matrix theory of facial and cranial growth. The theory, which helps describe how features coalesce, is frequently applied in orthodontics and other dental specialties when dealing with facial malformations.
        For example, in young patients with deformations of the jaw, the theory guides orthodontists in stimulating the jaw's growth and ''helps us to capitalize on that growth, to improve the bite and formation of the jaw,'' said Allan J. Formicola, who was dean of Columbia's dental school from 1978 to 2001.
        ''Dr. Moss's complex theory represents groundbreaking work that has changed basic treatments in orthodontics and other fields,'' said Dr. Formicola, who is now a professor of periodontics at Columbia. The theory was introduced as a chapter in a dental textbook, ''Vistas in Orthodontics,'' in 1962.
        In the late 1960's, Dr. Moss oversaw a shift in the curriculum of Columbia's dental school, as dean of the faculty of dental and oral surgery from 1968 to 1973. Dr. Formicola said that Dr. Moss helped emphasize the value of preventing oral disease and broadened the school's course work to include student research. He also contributed to national studies of bone formation, cranial growth and congenital bone deformations.
        Melvin Lionel Moss was born in Manhattan. He earned an undergraduate degree from New York University before receiving his dental degree from Columbia. He received his doctorate in anatomy from Columbia in 1954.
        Dr. Moss was named an assistant professor in anatomy at Columbia in 1955. He became a professor of oral biology in 1967, retiring in 1993. He continued his research until recently.
        Dr. Moss is survived by his wife of 36 years, Dr. Letty Moss-Salentijn, a professor of dentistry and a senior associate dean at Columbia; the couple lived in Manhattan.
        A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by two sons, Noel, of St. Louis, and James, of San Antonio; and by a granddaughter.
      