
        Ruben F. Mettler, a former chief executive of the aerospace company TRW and a leader in the development of America's ballistic missile program, died at his home in Los Angeles on May 23. He was 82.
        Mr. Mettler had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 2004, Dan McClain, a spokesman for the family, said.
        Mr. Mettler was associated with the development of many missile and guided rocket programs for the Air Force and NASA. He provided technical assistance for the Thor, Atlas, Titan and Minuteman rocket programs, among others.
        After World War II, he was part of a Navy team that witnessed at close range the atom bomb tests at Bikini atoll in the Pacific. In 1955, Mr. Mettler joined the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation, which eventually merged with Thompson Products to form TRW. He served as TRW's president and chief operating officer from 1969 to 1977 and became its chairman and chief executive in 1977, holding those positions until his retirement in 1988. A TRW director for 30 years, he remained on the company's board until 1994.
        He also served on the boards of Bank of America, Merck, Goodyear, Bechtel and Sola International and was chairman of the Business Roundtable from 1982-1984.
        Born on Feb. 23, 1924, Mr. Mettler grew up on a farm near Shafter, Calif. He was a scholarship student at Stanford University, graduating in 1941. Planning to study law, he instead volunteered for the Navy, which sent him to an accelerated program at the California Institute of Technology, where he earned a bachelor of science degree in 18 months. He was also sent to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before serving in the Pacific.
        After the war, he went back to Caltech to study electrical and aeronautical engineering and earned a doctorate in 1949.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Mettler worked on advanced aircraft electronic and radar systems for the Hughes Aircraft Company and in 1954 became a full-time consultant to the Pentagon. Returning to the private sector in the late 50's, he had a significant role in the nation's early space programs, developing several scientific satellites, including Pioneer 1, the first to be launched by a private company.
        As TRW's chief executive in the 1980's, he maintained the company's focus on government space and missile programs but also oversaw its growth into several new lines of business, including automotive parts and information services.
        Mr. Mettler is survived by his wife, Donna; two sons, Matthew and Daniel; and one grandson.
      