
        Fred K. Hoehler Jr., a pioneer in labor education and the founding director of the George Meany Center for Labor Studies of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., forerunner of the National Labor College in Maryland, died on Jan. 4 in Bellingham, Wash. He was 87.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Mr. Hoehler was a professor of industrial relations at Michigan State University in 1969 when Mr. Meany, the president of the labor federation, asked him to establish its advanced training center for union leadership. Mr. Hoehler developed the program, working with Antioch College in Ohio and patterning it after adult education systems he had studied overseas.
        ''His model was the Scottish University of the Second Chance,'' said Robert Pleasure, who succeeded him at the center in 1985, ''which provided higher education for people who were forced to work after high school and didn't have the first opportunity that more affluent people had.''
        Mr. Hoehler set up a curriculum starting with topics like collective bargaining, organizing and union communications. He also persuaded Mr. Meany and his executive council to buy a 47-acre campus in Silver Spring, Md., for the center, which opened its doors in 1974. Renamed the National Labor College in the 1990's, it began to grant bachelor's degrees, started graduate courses offered on campus by the University of Baltimore and received full college accreditation in 2004.
        Fred Kenneth Hoehler Jr. was born in Cincinnati and graduated from the University of Arizona in 1942. After service in the Army Air Corps in World War II, he received a master's degree in political science and industrial relations from the University of Chicago in 1947. He taught at the University of Puerto Rico and Pennsylvania State University before joining the Social Security department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 1954.
        From 1956 to 1970 Mr. Hoehler was a professor and associate director of the School of Labor and Industrial Relations at Michigan State in East Lansing. In that time he was also education director for the United Steelworkers of America, from 1964 to 1967, and directed an advanced study program for the Brookings Institution, from 1962 to 1971.
        Mr. Hoehler is survived by his wife of 27 years, Lisa Portman Hoehler; two sons, Fred III, of Orange, Calif., and Dan P., of Los Angeles; a sister, Caroline Kirkpatrick of Newtown, Pa.; and two grandchildren. His first marriage, to Ruth Hoehler, ended in divorce.
      