
        Heliodoro Rico, an international, national and local track and field administrator for more than a half-century, died last Thursday in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Patricia.
        Rico's track and field jobs were unpaid. He earned a living as a lawyer and then, for more than 20 years, as a senior administrative law judge for the New York State Department of Labor until he retired in 1991. He and his wife spent many hours conducting track meets, helping others conduct them and refining the rules that governed them. In 2000, USA Track and Field, the sport's national governing body, presented him with the Robert Giegengack Award for his contributions to the sport.
        In the 1960's, Rico was president of the Metropolitan Amateur Athletic Union and, in that era of strict amateurism, was chairman of its powerful registration committee. He also conducted about 30 local meets a year and coached a club team.
        From 1980 to 1988, he was chairman of the men's national rules committee of the Athletics Congress, the sport's national governing body at the time. From 1980 to 1995, he was meet director of the national indoor championships at Madison Square Garden and then the Georgia Dome in Atlanta, with his wife as his assistant. From 1981 on, his wife was referee of the annual Millrose Games at the Garden, and until the last two years he was her assistant.
        Together and separately, Rico and his wife served as managers of United States track and field teams that competed in Rome, Tokyo, Moscow, Warsaw, Rio de Janeiro and elsewhere.
        Heliodoro Ramon Rico, known as Bud, was born Feb. 4, 1922, in Tarrytown, N.Y. He joined the Army Air Corps in 1942, and when a test showed he had a 140 I.Q., he was put into top-secret cryptography work.
        After military service, he embarked on a high-speed educational plan, earning a bachelor's degree from New York University in two and a half years and a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in two years. Later, he received a master's degree in labor law from New York University.
        ''In my evenings at law school,'' he once said, ''I coached my old high school team in Tarrytown; no salary, but fun.''
        In addition to his wife, the former Patricia Jones, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Conti of Croton-on-Hudson.
      