
        Kenneth L. Lay, the son of a Baptist preacher in rural Missouri who rose to the pinnacle of corporate America as head of Enron before becoming a symbol of corporate excess, died yesterday in Aspen, Colo. He was 64.
        The cause of death was coronary artery disease, a forensic pathologist who performed the autopsy, Dr. Rob Kurtzman, told reporters yesterday in Grand Junction, Colo.
        Mr. Lay's sudden death -- family and friends say he did not have a history of heart disease -- came six weeks after he was convicted of 10 charges of conspiracy, fraud and lying to banks and almost four months before he was to be sentenced for those crimes. He faced years in prison.
        As the chief executive of Houston Natural Gas in the 1985, Mr. Lay helped engineer the company's merger with InterNorth of Omaha; the combined company would be named the Enron Corporation a year later. Enron went on to become the nation's seventh-largest company, pioneering and dominating the trading of natural gas and electricity. But in December 2001, the company collapsed amid accounting scandals.
        Kenneth Lee Lay was born in April 15, 1942, in Tyrone, Mo., the second of three children of Omer and Ruth Lay. His family moved frequently during his childhood as his father, a lay preacher, tried to establish himself in various trades and business ventures. When Mr. Lay was 6, the family's fledging chicken business was wiped out when a large shipment of birds was killed in a truck accident.
        He learned the value of money early, supplementing the family's meager income by delivering newspapers, cutting grass and baling hay.
        Those childhood lessons would be reinforced when he studied economics under the tutelage of Pinkney Walker, an economics professor at the University of Missouri who became his mentor.
        In the late 1960's, Mr. Lay landed his first real job, with the Houston-based Humble Oil and Refining, later part of Exxon. As one executive responsible for setting up Humble Oil's corporate development department, Mr. Lay received what seemed a princely salary of $13,000 a year. It was around this time that he married his college girlfriend, Judith Ayers. They had two children.
        While working at Humble, Mr. Lay began to pursue a doctorate in night school at the University of Houston. Then, with the draft board back in Missouri eager to get hold of him, Mr. Lay applied to the Navy's officer candidate school in Rhode Island and was accepted, heading out in January 1968. That led to his first experience in Washington; after officers' school, he was assigned to the Pentagon as an economist.
        When his time in the military was up, Mr. Lay was preparing to return to the corporate world when he heard from Mr. Walker, who had been named by President Richard M. Nixon to the Federal Power Commission. Mr. Walker persuaded his star student to join him as his technical assistant.
        After Washington, Mr. Lay did return to the business world, leaving for a job at the Florida Gas Corporation. His next big break came in 1981, when he moved to Houston, a city that would remain his home for decades to come. There, he joined a larger pipeline company, Transco, as president and chief operating officer.
        The 1980's was a decade of crucial developments in Mr. Lay's life. It was then that he would marry his second wife, create Enron and forge ties to political leaders.
        In 1981, as his first marriage was failing, he followed a former boss to Transco, a pipeline company in Houston. He later married Linda Phillips Herrold, who had once been his secretary at Florida Gas.
        When Mr. Lay was at Transco, many of the pipeline industry's financial contracts at the time were built on a faith that oil prices would continue rising; the arrangements required the companies to buy a set percentage of a gas well's production, at preset, ever-increasing rates.
        But when oil prices fell in the early 80's, the cost of gas dropped, too, leaving the pipeline companies on the hook for buying fuel at excessive prices. The problem hit Transco hard. So Mr. Lay corralled a group of Transco analysts, and urged them to play around with a new idea: setting up a spot market for gas, which would allow producers to sell the gas directly to customers -- taking the pipeline operators and distributors out of the middle.
        The idea was a rollicking success and alleviated Transco's financial bind. Mr. Lay emerged as something of a legend in the industry, a man who had transformed near certain disaster into a new business. Plenty of other companies sat up and took notice.
        By May 1984, Mr. Lay was approached by a smaller rival, Houston Natural Gas, or H.N.G., about taking over the company as chairman and chief executive. He took the job, assuming the helm of a major corporation for the first time at the age of 42.
        In less than a year, H.N.G. was on the path to becoming Enron. Internorth, an Omaha energy company, was fighting off a corporate takeover and, as a defensive maneuver, approached Mr. Lay about merging the two companies. Mr. Lay was intrigued, and on May 2, 1985, the merger of the two companies was announced. The merged company became loaded down with high-interest debt, used to finance the deal.
        By 1986, after some internal struggles, Mr. Lay was fully in charge of the company, which by then had been rechristened Enron.
        At Enron, Mr. Lay recruited Jeffrey K. Skilling, a McKinsey & Company consultant, in 1988 and the two began moving it away from its staid pipeline business and pushed it deeper into trading, first in natural gas and later in electricity.
        As he moved up the ranks of Houston's business elite, Mr. Lay also made connections in the city's deep political pool. He would establish a close relationship with Vice President George H. W. Bush, making large campaign contributions and heading critical committees. He was co-chairman of Mr. Bush's 1992 re-election committee and the chairman of the Republican National Convention held in Houston that year.
        His relationship with the Bush family was solidified in July 1990, when Mr. Lay helped to orchestrate the World Economic Summit in Houston at the request of the first President Bush. What had seemed to be an organizational mess before Mr. Lay stepped in proved to be an international showcase.
        Mr. Lay continued his close contact with Washington -- remaining close friends with Mr. Bush, later golfing with President Bill Clinton, and eventually establishing a close relationship with George W. Bush, while he was the governor of Texas.
        When the younger Mr. Bush set off on his quest to win the 2000 presidential election, Mr. Lay served as a major player, playing host at big fund-raisers and contributing plenty of his own money to the effort. After Mr. Bush won the election, Mr. Lay was considered for the job of Treasury secretary, but was passed over.
        Still, there was no disguising his close relationship to the Bush family; at the inauguration, the first President Bush and his wife flew to Washington with Mr. Lay on an Enron corporate plane. Mr. Lay's survivors, all of Houston, include his wife, Linda; a son, Mark; a daughter, Elizabeth Vittor; and three stepchildren, Robyn Lay, Beau Herrold and David Herrold.
        People who found themselves on the other side of Mr. Lay's goals and ambitions found him determined, strong-willed and effective. Curtis L. Hébert Jr., the chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, frequently disagreed with Mr. Lay on how much and how quickly the nation should deregulate electricity markets.
        Neither convincedthe other, but Mr. Lay did not have to. His Republican colleagues frequently outvoted Mr. Hébert.
        ''Ken Lay was a charming fellow and always presented himself as such, even though we didn't agree,'' Mr. Hebert said. ''I think that was part of his success.''
        It was, perhaps, also part of his eventual failure.
        Bill Burton, a Texas lawyer who had known Mr. Lay for more than 10 years, compared Mr. Lay to Icarus, the figure in Greek mythology who was given wings made of feather and wax but fell into the sea when he flew too close to the sun.
        ''The Enron and Ken Lay stories are best told in an English literature class, or a classics class,'' Mr. Burton told an interviewer in 2002, ''where you are trying to explain what hubris is all about.''
        AN ENRON CHAPTER CLOSES: AN OBITUARY
      