
        Pierre A. Rinfret, an economist and adviser to several presidents who in 1990 recorded the worst showing by a Republican candidate for governor in New York's history, losing resoundingly to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died on June 29 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 82 and had made his home in Nantucket in recent years.
        Mr. Rinfret's family confirmed the death, saying only that it followed a brief illness. The Associated Press reported that Mr. Rinfret died of heart-related problems.
        A Manhattan millionaire who had been an informal adviser on economic matters to Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon, Mr. Rinfret (pronounced RIN-fray) had neither sought nor held public office. But in May 1990, just eight days before the Republican State Convention, he was mentioned as a possible candidate to unseat Governor Cuomo, the two-term Democratic incumbent.
        Nineteen Republicans had already declined their party's nomination when State Senator Roy M. Goodman, the Manhattan Republican leader, pulled Mr. Rinfret's name from the address book of a mutual friend. On May 30, 1990, Mr. Rinfret, at the time a registered Independent, became the Republican nominee.
        After a campaign that was characterized by debt, defection, frequent public combustion and the candidate's protracted absence from the state, Mr. Rinfret was roundly defeated at the polls, earning just 21 percent of the vote. He only narrowly beat the Conservative Party candidate, Herbert London, who won 20 percent; Mr. Cuomo was re-elected with 53 percent. Politically, Mr. Rinfret defied category. As an economist, he was described as a moderate conservative. But he broke with President Richard M. Nixon in 1969 over the administration's economic policies, which Mr. Rinfret publicly denounced.
        On the campaign trail, Mr. Rinfret supported abortion rights and favored the death penalty for drug kingpins. He once proposed that the New York Police Department arm and train 100,000 volunteer vigilantes to help fight crime in the city.
        Mr. Rinfret could be lavish with criticism, and seldom spared his own party. He was ''not particularly proud to be a Republican,'' he declared a month before the election; he also called the major Republicans in the state ''gutless wonders'' for refusing to run against Mr. Cuomo.
        Democrats fared no better. Mr. Rinfret called Mr. Cuomo ''chicken'' for not having served in the military during the Korean War; he once referred to Carol Bellamy, a former president of the New York City Council, as ''that idiot woman.''
        Describing himself, Mr. Rinfret liked to say, ''What you see is what you get.''
        Pierre André Rinfret was born on Feb. 1, 1924, in Montreal, and moved with his family to New York five years later. His father was a struggling salesman, and by the younger Mr. Rinfret's later account, the family was very poor, once moving 13 times in a single year because there was no money for rent.
        During World War II, Mr. Rinfret served with the Army in France and Germany. He was awarded the Bronze Star and Purple Heart. While in the Army, he earned a certificate in electrical engineering from the University of Maine.
        After the war, Mr. Rinfret earned a bachelor's degree in business from New York University in 1948 and an M.B.A. there the next year. On a Fulbright Fellowship, he studied political economics at the University of Dijon, earning a Diplome d'Études Superieures, considered the equivalent of an American master's degree, in 1951.
        That year, Mr. Rinfret joined Lionel D. Edie & Company, an investment counseling and economic consulting concern based in New York. Mr. Rinfret later became a vice president there and in 1964 was named the company's chairman. He left Lionel D. Edie in late 1966 to form his own consultancy, Rinfret-Boston Associates, with offices in New York and Switzerland.
        Mr. Rinfret first came to wide public notice in 1964, after President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had just signed a tax-cut bill, approvingly quoted ''a leading industrial economist'' -- Mr. Rinfret -- who had recently described the nation's economy as robust. For the next several years, Mr. Rinfret was often sought by the news media as an authority on economic affairs.
        The economics of Mr. Rinfret's campaign for governor seemed less secure than he might have wished. In a financial report from mid-July 1990, Mr. Rinfret reported having raised just $869,632. Of this, $540,000 was his own money.
        In September 1990, Mr. Rinfret's campaign manager, Assemblyman John J. Faso -- the Republican candidate for governor this year -- left the campaign, as did his finance chairman, former Treasury Secretary William E. Simon. For his part, Mr. Rinfret spent most of the summer leading up to the election on his yacht in Europe, The New York Times reported.
        Although during the campaign Mr. Rinfret promised that he would be ''moving the devil out of New York State'' if he lost, he initially reversed himself and elected to stay in his home on the Upper East Side, declaring, ''I love New York too much.'' He later reversed the reversal, retiring to Nantucket in 1991.
        Mr. Rinfret is survived by his wife, the former Ida Ceci, whom he married in 1948; a daughter, Suzanne Rinfret Moore, of Montreal; a son, Peter, of Greenwich, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      