
        Anatole Shub, who used his own rich Russian background to report from Moscow, conduct research on Russian topics for the United States Information Agency and write books about the Soviet Union, died on July 2 in Washington. He was 78.
        The cause was a stroke followed by pneumonia, his son, Adam, said.
        Mr. Shub (pronounced shewb), was born in the Bronx and grew up in a household in the Seagate section of Brooklyn seasoned by the lively debates of Russian intellectuals, artists and politicians, including Trotsky.
        Mr. Shub's father, David, was exiled to Siberia by the czar and escaped to Europe, where he got to know Lenin, Bukharin, Trotsky and others who would figure in the Russian Revolution of 1917. The elder Mr. Shub, who became an editor at The Jewish Daily Forward, wrote ''Lenin, A Biography.''
        Alexander Kerensky, the Russian revolutionary who became the country's second prime minister before being toppled by Lenin's Bolsheviks, was a frequent visitor to the Shubs' home during Anatole's teens.
        In reviewing Anatole Shub's book ''The Return of Stalin's Ghost'' (1970) in The New York Times Book Review, Harrison Salisbury wrote that Mr. Shub's ''deep and intimate immersion into the stream of Russian imperial relationships'' gave the book ''its special power and precision.''
        Mr. Shub attended Townsend Harris High School and then joined the Navy in 1945. He later graduated from the City College of New York and attended the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University and the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University.
        His first journalism job was at The New Leader, whose leftist but anti-Communist viewpoint echoed that of his father. He started as a writer and became an editor. He next worked as an associate editor at Commentary magazine, where he asked Michael Harrington to write an article about poverty. It became the basis for Mr. Harrington's landmark book ''The Other America.''
        After a stint as an editor at The New York Times, Mr. Shub won a fellowship from the Institute of Current World Affairs that allowed him to travel in Russia and Eastern Europe.
        In 1964, The Washington Post hired him to open a bureau in Bonn to cover Germany and Eastern Europe. Mr. Shub was next assigned to The Post's Moscow bureau, where his aggressive reporting on dissidents, the political role of the army and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, among other topics, caused him to be expelled in 1969. That year he published a well-reviewed book, ''The New Russian Tragedy,'' based on his 10-part series on the Soviet Union in The Post.
        In later years he was news director at Radio Free Liberty/Radio Liberty and an analyst for the United States Information Agency, studying Russian public opinion.
        Mr. Shub's brother, Boris, a founder of Radio Liberty, died in 1965. In addition to his son, Adam, of Paris, he is survived by his daughter, Rachel Shub of Geneva, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Shub was divorced from both Joyce Lasky, the mother of his children, and Barbara Raskin, who wrote the 1987 novel ''Hot Flashes.'' She died in 1999.
      