
        Lewis L. Glucksman, whose fierce battle for control of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb in 1983 was a curtain-raiser for the titanic struggles of ego and will that swept Wall Street over the next decade, died Wednesday at his home near Cobh, County Cork, Ireland. He was 80.
        The cause was bronchial pneumonia, said his wife, Loretta Brennan Glucksman. Mr. Glucksman and his wife also had a home in Manhattan.
        Mr. Glucksman, a gifted trader, became a partner at Lehman Brothers in 1966. By 1983, he was chief executive of the fabled partnership, which traced its beginning to 1844.
        He shared the title with the firm's chairman, Peter G. Peterson, a former commerce secretary in the Nixon administration. From the outside, it seemed the perfect marriage of two distinctive Wall Street cultures: the traders, decisive but maybe too rough for the boardroom, and the bankers, cerebral but perhaps too courtly for the brass-knuckled marketplace.
        But in reality, it was a poisonous mismatch, said Ken Auletta, whose book ''Greed and Glory on Wall Street'' (Random House, 1986) depicted the struggle. ''Symbolically, it was the clash between bankers and traders carried to extremes,'' Mr. Auletta said. ''But it became very personal on both sides.''
        Mr. Glucksman succeeded in ousting Mr. Peterson in 1983, but the Lehman partnership was fatally wounded by the fight and was sold to American Express in 1984. (The resulting unit, Shearson Lehman, was spun off in 1993 and reclaimed the Lehman Brothers name.)
        Mr. Glucksman left Lehman when it was sold, but found fresh success on Wall Street in 1988, when he was hired to oversee trading operations at Smith Barney, part of the financial conglomerate now known as Citigroup. He retired in 1999 but continued to be active in the market until a few years before his death, his friends said.
        His former colleagues recall Mr. Glucksman as a tireless mentor. ''He was quite successful in bringing people up to the very best of their abilities,'' said Robert S. Rubin, a senior vice president at J. P. Morgan Chase and a friend since the Lehman days.
        His protégés include Richard S. Fuld Jr., chairman and chief executive at Lehman Brothers. Another of the executives he nurtured, James S. Boshart, a retired banker at J. P. Morgan Chase, flew to Ireland to be with him in his last days, as did Mr. Rubin.
        Mr. Glucksman was a graduate of the College of William and Mary and New York University, where he taught business and helped finance the Louis Glucksman Institute of Research in Securities Markets.
        He also had a great love for Ireland and its culture, which he discovered as a young sailor during World War II. With his wife, he founded Glucksman Ireland House at New York University in 1993, a center for research on Irish history, literature and culture, and was also a major donor to the Ireland Funds, which support peace and education efforts.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Mary Salinger Glucksman of Manhattan and Jane Salinger Glucksman of Brooklyn; three stepchildren, John Cooney of Mount Laurel, N.J.; Christopher Cooney of Stamford, Conn.; and Kate Cooney Picco of Old Greenwich, Conn.; and six grandchildren.
      