
        Emmett Leith, a scientist who took the concept of the hologram and added the technology of the laser to help create three-dimensional photography, died on Dec. 23 at a hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78.
        The cause was an internal hemorrhage, said Kim Leith, his daughter.
        Holograms are commonplace today, and can be found on credit cards and children's stickers and have a broad range of industrial applications. But at the time Dr. Leith presented his advances to the scientific world, holography seemed to prove the newly minted epigram by Arthur C. Clarke that ''any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.''
        The presentation, at a conference of the Optical Society in 1964, caused a stir. Dr. Leith, a professor of engineering and computer science at the University of Michigan, and a colleague, Juris Upatnieks, described their work, and Dr. Leith later told the magazine Michigan Engineer that people rushed from the presentation room to the suite next door, where they lined up down the hallway to see the startlingly realistic image of a toy train.
        ''Many of them thought it was done with mirrors,'' he recalled. ''A few wanted to know where the train was. I said, 'It's back in Ann Arbor.' ''
        The work built upon research by Dennis Gabor of the Imperial College London, who coined the term ''hologram.'' Dr. Gabor had been exploring ways to improve the images from electron microscopes in the 1940's, but ran up against the limitations of the technologies of the day.
        The processes he envisioned required a highly coherent form of light, with a single wavelength and color. But the mercury arc lamps that Dr. Gabor used could not produce an image of much depth, and the images had ghostly doubles.
        Around the time of Dr. Gabor's research, Dr. Leith (pronounced leeth) was working on a military radar program at Michigan's Institute of Science and Technology, unaware of the microscopy work. But Dr. Leith's efforts to make smaller, more efficient radar antennas and to present the data from them led him down Dr. Gabor's path.
        In a later memoir, Dr. Leith said that when he heard of Dr. Gabor's work, his feelings were mixed. ''There was some disappointment'' that the principles had already been invented, he wrote, but pride in the recognition that the technology ''was significant enough to have been published in the scientific literature.''
        With the invention of the laser, which provided a source of highly coherent light, Dr. Leith realized that holograms could be greatly improved. Using a technique that he called ''off-axis holography'' and a laser, he and Dr. Upatnieks eliminated the double-image problem that dogged Dr. Gabor. Later researchers developed holograms that could be viewed under incandescent light.
        ''It was really Emmett's invention that gave us true three-dimensional photography,'' said Charles M. Vest, former president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who worked with Dr. Leith at Michigan.
        In 1971, when Dr. Gabor won the Nobel Prize in Physics for his research, the Nobel committee cited Dr. Leith's work. In 1979, Dr. Leith was awarded the National Medal of Science by President Jimmy Carter.
        Dr. Leith was born in Detroit and received his degrees from Wayne State University. In addition to his daughter Kim, he is survived by his wife, June; another daughter, Pam Wilder of San Jose, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      