
        Hugh Stubbins Jr., an architect best known for the angular tower of the Citicorp Center in Manhattan, but also noted for his design of the Reagan Presidential Library in California and of the tallest building in Japan, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son Hugh Stubbins III of Camden, Me.
        Although considered a Modernist, Mr. Stubbins was no strict adherent to that architectural style. His design for the Reagan Library in Simi Valley evokes the stucco and red-tile roofs of the mission style.
        Citing the sleek, aluminum-sheathed Citicorp building at Lexington Avenue and 53rd Street, Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic for The New Yorker and, until recently, dean of the Parsons School of Design, called it ''probably the most important skyscraper built in New York in the 1970's because of its elegant and memorable shape, but also because of its engagement with the city at the base.''
        The sloping roof of the 914-foot-tall tower, now known as Citigroup Center, has become a symbol of the city's skyline, Mr. Goldberger said. At its base is a large public space that is filled with stores, restaurants and room for public activity. ''So it was a model for the skyscraper woven into the fabric of the city,'' Mr. Goldberger said. The building, completed in 1978, was designed by Mr. Stubbins in association with Emery Roth & Sons.
        Hugh Asher Stubbins Jr. was born on Jan. 11, 1912, the son of Hugh and Lucille Stubbins of Birmingham, Ala. His father was a shoe salesman. Mr. Stubbins graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1932. A tall, trim man, he was a nationally ranked track star while in college, and an Olympic candidate until he was sidelined by a pulled hamstring. In 1935, he earned a master's degree in architecture from the Harvard Graduate School of Design.
        Mr. Stubbins was married three times. His marriage to Diana Moore in 1938 ended in divorce in 1965. His second wife, Colette Fadeuihle, died in 1995. His third wife, June Kootz, died in 2001. In addition to his son Hugh Stubbins III, who is also an architect, Mr. Stubbins is survived two other sons, Peter, of Sausalito, Calif., and Michael, of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Patricia Minot of Bradenton, Fla.; and nine grandchildren.
        Mr. Stubbins and his firm, Hugh Stubbins and Associates, designed more than 800 buildings in eight countries, including many buildings on college campuses.
        After World War II, Mr. Stubbins was commissioned by the United States government to design the Berlin Congress Hall in West Germany, a theater and exhibition space that some people refer to as the ''pregnant oyster'' because its roof slopes between two arches. Built in view of the East German border, it was seen as a symbol of American efforts to help West Germany recover.
        Among Mr. Stubbins's other favorite structures, his son said, was the Federal Reserve Bank in downtown Boston, which opened in 1978. A 600-foot aluminum and glass tower, it is notable for its sunshades on each floor, giving the facade the appearance of a washboard, which are designed to protect the glass from glare and to alleviate the downward forces of wind at the street level.
        In 1993, Mr. Stubbins completed his last building, the Landmark Tower in Yokohama, Japan. The 60-story building, which flares at its base, is the tallest building in Japan.
      