
        Dr. Fred J. Epstein, a pediatric neurosurgeon who devised new ways to operate on slow-growing tumors intertwined with brain stems and spinal cords, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68.
        The cause was melanoma, his wife, Kathy, said.
        Dr. Epstein performed more than 2,500 operations as he pioneered in using new technology, including lasers, ultrasound and huge microscopes, to remove mainly noncancerous tumors that were once thought to be incurable because of their location.
        He sought and achieved a prominence beyond the medical world, in part to raise money for the expensive equipment he required. He wrote two books for general readers and was the subject of three segments of ''20/20'' on ABC television and a Reader's Digest feature article. The license plate on his Ferrari read, ''PED-NS1,'' short for ''pediatric neurosurgeon 1.''
        In an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1993, Dr. David McLone, a past president of the American Society of Pediatric Neurosurgery, said brain-stem tumors were ''regarded by most people as inoperable until Fred developed the technique, did them and showed other people how to do this.''
        Dr. A. Leland Albright, chief of pediatric neurosurgery at Children's Hospital in Pittsburgh, said in an interview with Newsday in 1993: ''Over the years, he has operated on some patients that very few people will. But it has been with the hope of identifying the limits of surgery. And I think he has pretty well done that.''
        Dr. Epstein founded the division of pediatric neurosurgery at New York University Medical Center, then moved his unit to Beth Israel Medical Center, where he founded the Hyman-Newman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery. About 108 people followed him from job to job.
        Dr. Epstein was president of the International Society of Pediatric Neurosurgery and the American Society of Pediatric Neurosurgery. He published more than 175 scholarly papers and was editor in chief of The Journal of Pediatric Neurosurgery.
        In 2001, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons awarded him its Lifetime Achievement Award.
        Dr. Epstein made news by operating on the son of the Yankee pitcher Tommy John and on a Tibetan monk for whom the Dalai Lama prayed at Dr. Epstein's institute. In 1997, he operated on a millionaire's pug in exchange for a donation to help pay for surgery that Dr. Epstein then performed on a 5-year-old boy from rural Pennsylvania.
        He was a connoisseur of fine cowboy boots, and he often invited journalists and video crews into his operating room.
        In September 2001, Dr. Epstein suffered severe brain damage when he fell off his bicycle, splitting his helmet. He was in a coma for 26 days and in the hospital for nine months.
        ''It's hard to give up taking care of patients,'' he said in an interview with Greenwich Time in 2003. In recent months, he had consulted on neurological matters with the Miami Children's Hospital.
        Fred Jacob Epstein, the second of three children of a psychiatrist and a social worker, was born in Yonkers on July 26, 1937. He was president of his senior class at a private high school in Yonkers that became the Halsted School and the student council. He was also captain of the football and baseball teams.
        For all his popularity, Dr. Epstein as a boy suffered what he later characterized as learning disabilities. He told Greenwich Time that he read slowly, had trouble making sense of numbers and wrote the letter ''e'' backward.
        ''I was told that I couldn't go to medical school, that I couldn't be a doctor,'' he said.
        But he said he studied many more hours than other students and graduated from New York University and New York Medical College. He did his internship and surgical residency at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He did his neurosurgical residency at New York University-Bellevue Medical Center, while serving in the Army reserves.
        In 1983, he was named professor of neurosurgery at N.Y.U. and two years later director of the division of pediatric neurosurgery. It was there that he saw the resemblance of operable tumors in the cerebellum and, until then, inoperable ones in the brain stem. He likened the technique he developed to removing lead from a pencil, the pencil being the spinal cord.
        Dr. Epstein is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Kathy Candel; his daughters Samara Epstein Cohen of Manhattan and Greenwich and Ilana Epstein Grady of Greenwich; his sons, Jason, of Scarsdale, N.Y., Joseph, of Greenwich, and Benjamin, of Greenwich; his brothers Simon, of Stamford, Conn., and Abram, of Manhattan; and three granddaughters.
      