
        Thomas A. Murphy, who led General Motors for most of the 1970's, died Wednesday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 90.
        His death was announced by General Motors.
        Mr. Murphy began his career at G.M. as a clerk in the controller's office after he graduated from college in 1938. Except for three years during World War II when he served in the Navy -- Mr. Murphy worked his entire career at G.M., retiring as chairman and chief executive in 1980. He then continued to serve as a director for eight years.
        His tenure was one of considerable prosperity for General Motors, and he was the last chief executive to lead G.M. when its position as the lone superpower in the global automobile industry was unquestionable. In 1978, while Mr. Murphy was chief executive, G.M. reached its record of 9.55 million cars and trucks sold globally. Last year, G.M. sold 9.17 million vehicles, the first time since 1978 the company broke the 9 million mark.
        Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said: ''Tom personally set a tone of the highest morals and ethics in every action that he took, and that has defined the culture in G.M. for decades since..''
        Marina Whitman, a professor at the University of Michigan who was one of G.M.'s first senior female executives, recalled Mr. Murphy's candor.
        ''It was kind of G.M. lore,'' Ms. Whitman said, ''that when Chrysler first got a government bailout and he was asked what he thought of it, his first reaction was the government shouldn't have done that -- that government bailouts had no place in a situation like that, and it would simply make life harder for all the competitors.''
        As a career G.M. finance executive, Mr. Murphy advanced from the controller's office to the treasurer's office, which he eventually led. He later became vice president for the car and truck group. He was appointed vice chairman in 1972, two years before the board elected him chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Murphy became chief executive just months after the Arab oil embargo ended, an event that forced G.M. and the rest of the American auto industry to make smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
        ''There was the oil issue, a lot of different things going on with policy, safety, regulatory influence, but it was still a very profitable period for G.M.,'' said David Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research, adding that Mr. Murphy was the prototypical chief executive. ''If Hollywood were picking someone to play that role, Tom Murphy would have been it.''
        Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife of nearly 65 years, Catherine Rita Murphy; two daughters, Catherine Murphy and Maureen M. Fay; and a son, Thomas A. Murphy Jr.
      