
        George W. Albee, a psychologist and former president of the American Psychological Association who argued that poverty and social deprivation were the root causes of many mental and emotional disorders, died on July 8 at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 84.
        His death was confirmed by his family.
        Dr. Albee advanced his thesis in the 1960's, when he began to criticize the biochemical therapies that psychiatry had developed to treat mental disorders. Writing in The American Psychologist and other journals, he made a case for considering violence, unemployment, child abuse and social stresses as primary forces that set off psychological problems like depression and anxiety disorders.
        Nicholas A. Cummings, professor emeritus of psychology at the University of Nevada at Reno and a former president of the psychological association, debated Dr. Albee's thesis with him in the 1970's, in person and in print. Dr. Cummings recalled that Dr. Albee ''was never timid in taking the position that prescribing medication was almost never appropriate in dealing with mental issues.''
        Dr. Albee believed that many disorders could be better dealt with by easing social stresses, particularly on children. And he argued that a society could prevent mental disorders on a mass scale by reapportioning its resources to address problems in education, housing, drug abuse and nutrition among underprivileged children.
        A collaborator, Justin M. Joffe, a professor of psychology at the University of Vermont, said Dr. Albee had ''concluded a long time ago that you were never going to have the resources to treat enough people in one-to-one therapy, and that you needed the more effective approach of prevention.''
        Much of Dr. Albee's work was based on his reviews of existing studies. He singled out I.Q. tests as an element that helped perpetuate harmful social and racial stereotypes.
        I.Q. tests ''have been shown to have no magical properties,'' he wrote in an Op-ed article in The New York Times in 1978.
        He continued: ''Rather, they are only one of many ways of studying the child. They are more a measure of past achievement and of social-class experience than they are of some mysterious abstraction called intelligence.''
        George Wilson Albee was born in St. Mary's, Pa. He received an undergraduate degree from Bethany College and a master's degree and a doctorate in psychology from the University of Pittsburgh.
        From 1954 to 1971, he taught at Western Reserve University, now Case Western Reserve, in Cleveland, where he was a professor of psychology. Dr. Albee then moved to the University of Vermont, where he was named professor emeritus of psychology in 1992.
        He was president of the American Psychological Association in 1969 and 1970. He was also a former president of the American Association for Applied and Preventive Psychology. Dr. Albee is survived by his wife, Margaret Tong. A previous marriage, to Constance Impallaria, ended in divorce. He is also survived by two sons, Luke, of Washington, and Alexander, of Plymouth, Minn.; two daughters, Marina of St. Petersburg, Russia, and Sarah Albee Willson of Watertown, Conn.; and 10 grandchildren.
      