
        Raja Rao, an internationally renowned novelist who was among the first major Indian writers to cajole the English language into conveying the distinctive cadences of his native country, died on July 8 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 97.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Susan Raja-Rao.
        At his death, Raja Rao was emeritus professor of philosophy at the University of Texas, Austin, where he began teaching 40 years ago.
        Well before India's independence from Britain in 1947, Raja Rao, along with writers like R. K. Narayan, commandeered the language of the colonizer to represent the experience of the colonized. By evoking the sights, sounds, pleasures and hardships of Indian village life, these writers forged the English literature of 20th-century India.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1964, Santha Rama Rau called Raja Rao ''perhaps the most brilliant -- and certainly the most interesting -- writer of modern India.''
        Raja Rao's best-known novels include his first, ''Kanthapura,'' published in England in 1938 and in the United States by New Directions in 1963. Narrated in the voice of an elderly woman, the novel explores the turbulence in a South Indian village caused by the arrival of a Gandhi-like figure who preaches nonviolent resistance to British rule.
        Written when Raja Rao was just 21 and published only years later, ''Kanthapura'' reveals his characteristic style -- lyrical, fluid, colloquial -- already firmly in place.
        ''Our village -- I don't think you have ever heard about it -- Kanthapura is its name, and it is in the province of Kara,'' the novel begins. ''High on the Ghats is it, high up the steep mountains that face the cool Arabian seas, up the Malabar coast is it, up Mangalore and Puttur and many a center of cardamom and coffee, rice and sugar cane. Roads, narrow, dusty, rut-covered roads, wind through the forest of teak and of jack, of sandal and of sal, and hanging over bellowing gorges and leaping over elephant-haunted valleys, they turn now to the left and now to the right and bring you through the Alambè and Champa and Mena and Kola passes into the great granaries of trade.''
        Raja Rao was born on Nov. 8, 1908, in the town of Hassan in what was then the state of Mysore and is today Karnataka. Like many South Indians of the period, he had no surname; he added Rao as an adult, to obtain a passport.
        In 1929 Raja Rao earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Madras, where he studied English. He continued his studies in France, first at the University of Montpellier and afterward at the Sorbonne. He lived in France for much of the next three decades.
        In 1931 Raja Rao married a French academic, Camille Mouly. He would chart the disintegration of their marriage in his semiautobiographical novel, ''The Serpent and the Rope.'' Like all his work, the novel explored searching metaphysical questions, in this case the nature of the seemingly irreconcilable differences between the Eastern mind-set and the Western. Published in England in 1960, it was released in the United States by Pantheon in 1963.
        Raja Rao's second marriage, to Cathrine Jones, also ended in divorce. Besides his wife, the former Susan Vaught, whom he married in 1986, he is survived by two sons, Christopher Rama Rao of Seattle, and Stephan Lewellyn of New York City; a brother, Yogeshwar Ananda, of Seattle; a sister, Mira Melkote, of England; and one grandchild.
        In 1966 Raja Rao joined the faculty at Texas, where he taught Indian philosophy, concentrating in particular on Buddhism and Vedantism. He retired in 1980.
        In 1988 he received the Neustadt International Prize for Literature. The prize, which then carried an award of $25,000 (it is now $50,000), is given every two years by the University of Oklahoma and its international literary journal, World Literature Today.
        Among his other books are the novels ''The Cat and Shakespeare'' (Macmillan, 1965) and ''The Chessmaster and His Moves'' (Vision Books, 1988), and the short-story collection ''The Cow of the Barricades'' (Oxford University, 1947).
        In the foreword to ''Kanthapura,'' Raja Rao set forth what was to be a lifelong literary concern: conveying the Indian experience to the larger world in a language besides his native Kannada.
        ''We, in India, think quickly, we talk quickly, and when we move, we move quickly,'' he wrote. ''There must be something in the sun of India that makes us rush and tumble and run on.'' He added:
        ''We have neither punctuation nor the treacherous 'ats' and 'ons' to bother us -- we tell one interminable tale. Episode follows episode, and when our thoughts stop our breath stops, and we move on to another thought. This was and still is the ordinary style of our storytelling. I have tried to follow it myself in this story.''
      