
        Aleksander Wojtkiewicz, a chess grandmaster originally from Latvia who won or tied for first in the five tournaments in which he played in the last month of his life, died Friday in Baltimore. He was 43.
        The cause was internal bleeding, said Amber Berglund, his companion.
        Mr. Wojtkiewicz (pronounced wo-jo-KEV-ich) was born in Riga, Latvia, on Jan. 15, 1963, to a Polish father and a Russian mother. He learned to play from his father, who was a good player, and by the time he was 15 he was among the most promising players of his generation in the Soviet Union. Alexander Shabalov, another grandmaster from Riga, said that Mr. Wojtkiewicz might have been the best of a group that included Jaan Ehlvest, Valery Salov and Andrei Sokolov.
        While those players were among the top 100 players in the world, and in the cases of Mr. Ehlvest and Mr. Salov, among the top 20, Mr. Wojtkiewicz never had the same success.
        Mr. Shabalov said that Mr. Wojtkiewicz's development might have been stunted by what happened when he was younger. When he turned 18 he was drafted into the Soviet Army, like all men of his age. To avoid service, Mr. Shabalov said, Mr. Wojtkiewicz spent the next four years on the run and was unable to play in tournaments or to train properly.
        In the end, Mr. Shabalov said, Mr. Wojtkiewicz tired of being a fugitive and surrendered. He was imprisoned for a year and a half. After he was released, he was allowed to emigrate to Poland. He began to play competitive chess again and became a grandmaster, winning the Polish championship twice.
        In the late 1990's, he immigrated to the United States, where he became one of the most successful, and active, tournament players in the country, finishing atop the annual chess grand prix rankings for six consecutive years. In the two weeks before he died, he tied for first place with eight other grandmasters in the World Open, the biggest tournament of the year, and he tied for first with an international master in the Columbus Open in Ohio.
        Mr. Wojtkiewicz never married; he had a son, Yosef, with Laima Domarkaite, a Lithuanian, Ms. Berglund said. He is also survived by his mother, Tamara Wojtkiewicz.
      