
        Robert C. Mardian, a lawyer for President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign whose conviction on charges of conspiring to cover up the administration's involvement in the Watergate break-in was overturned, died Monday at his vacation home in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Phoenix.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, his son Robert told The Associated Press.
        Mr. Mardian, who had resigned as assistant attorney general to work on Nixon's campaign, was charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice after the break-in and attempted bugging at the Democratic National Headquarters office in the Watergate complex on June 17, 1972.
        Prosecutors said that he had taken part in efforts to get the burglars out of jail the day they were arrested and that he was later involved in discussions of hush money and of preparation of a false story to be told to Watergate investigators.
        Mr. Mardian contended that his involvement in the Watergate case had been limited to about 35 days of service as a lawyer representing the Nixon campaign in civil suits stemming from the break-in.
        In January 1975, a jury convicted him on one count of conspiracy, and he was sentenced to 10 months to three years in prison. In October 1976, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia overturned his conviction on the grounds that he should have been tried separately from six other campaign and administration officials and that his lawyer of first choice had withdrawn because of illness.
        The appeals judges noted that the evidence against Mr. Mardian ''was not as strong as that marshaled against his co-defendants.'' Those co-defendants who were convicted were former Attorney General John N. Mitchell; the White House aides H. R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman, and Gordon C. Strachan, Mr. Haldeman's assistant.
        Charges against Charles W. Colson, a former special counsel to Nixon, were dropped when he admitted his role in a separate break-in at the office of the psychiatrist of Dr. Daniel J. Ellsberg, a former National Security Council aide who leaked the Pentagon Papers, a secret history of the Vietnam War, to The New York Times.
        Kenneth L. Parkinson, another lawyer for the Nixon re-election committee, was acquitted.
        Rather than retrying Mr. Mardian, Charles F. C. Ruff, the Watergate special prosecutor, dropped the charge.
        In a profile in The Times in 1973, Mr. Mardian was depicted as being disappointed at being passed over twice by Nixon: first for deputy attorney general and then for deputy manager of the entire Nixon campaign. ''When things are going great, they ignore me,'' he told The Times. ''When things get screwed up, they lean on me.''
        As an assistant attorney general, Mr. Mardian was a vigorous instigator of wiretapping and bugging subversives, which he defined broadly to include almost all opponents of the Vietnam War. But he insisted that the Watergate bugging was news to him.
        Robert Charles Mardian was born in Pasadena, Calif., on Oct. 23, 1923, as the youngest of four boys and three girls. His father was an Armenian refugee from what had been the Ottoman Empire, and his brothers built a successful construction company and advanced in the conservative wing of the Republican Party. His brother Samuel was mayor of Phoenix in the 1960's.
        Mr. Mardian went to public schools in Pasadena, then to Columbia University, North Dakota State Teachers College and the University of California, Santa Barbara. While serving in the Navy in World War II, he met Dorothy D. Denniss, whom he married in 1946.
        In addition to her and his son Robert, Mr. Mardian is survived by two other sons, Bill and Tony; his brothers, Samuel and Daniel; his sister, Florence Gertmenian; and 10 grandchildren.
        He worked as a lawyer and at a savings and loan association in the 1960's. He first became involved in politics when he was appointed to the Pasadena school board in 1956. He participated in the presidential campaign of Senator Barry Goldwater, Ronald Reagan's first campaign for California governor and Nixon's 1968 presidential campaign.
        In the Nixon administration, he was general counsel to what was then the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. He was appointed assistant attorney general in 1970 and led the administration's legal campaign against all manner of leftists.
        Correction:  August 15, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on July 22 of Robert C. Mardian, a lawyer in the re-election campaign of President Richard M. Nixon whose conviction in connection with the Watergate conspiracy was later overturned, misstated the outcome of the case against one of his co-defendants, Gordon C. Strachan. Judge John J. Sirica agreed to drop charges against Mr. Strachan, another Nixon aide, at the request of the prosecution; Mr. Strachan did not face trial and was not convicted.
      