
        Thomas J. Manton, a former seven-term United States representative and New York City councilman who was chairman of the powerful Queens Democratic party for the past two decades, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Astoria, Queens.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, according to his daughter Jeanne M. Manton.
        The son of rural Irish immigrants, Mr. Manton worked as a police officer and a typewriter salesman while he finished college and law school. He was among the generations of Irish-American politicians who dominated neighborhood and borough politics in New York City for decades, although he was credited with helping recruit candidates from the Hispanic, Asian and other immigrant and ethnic groups that have made Queens one of the most demographically diverse counties in the country.
        Although he fit the role of a clubhouse Democrat to a tee -- drafting legislation, doling out patronage jobs and grooming or blocking candidates for office -- Mr. Manton wielded influence over politicians of every stripe. He counseled Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, and helped secure the election of two City Council speakers, Gifford Miller, elected in 2002, and Christine C. Quinn, elected this year. The speaker is chosen by the other 50 council members; both Mr. Miller and Ms. Quinn gave Queens lawmakers key committee positions in apparent thanks for Mr. Manton's support.
        While the patronage system and political machines have been weakening in the city for decades, ''the Queens organization has maintained a singular ability to nominate and elect candidates and, to some extent, control their votes,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College in Manhattan, who described Mr. Manton as ''in many ways, the last of the big-time county bosses in this city.''
        In a sign of that clout, politicians were quick to praise Mr. Manton yesterday. ''He was somebody that I reached out to a number of times when I first toyed with the idea of entering public service,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''I got his advice. I'll never forget: We had a great lunch at an Italian restaurant where he regaled me with stories of what politics in New York City was really all about. He was a classy guy. He really did leave this city better than he found it, on a number of levels, and even up through three months ago, was giving me advice.''
        Representative Joseph Crowley -- whom Mr. Manton picked to succeed him in Congress and who is considered a leading candidate to succeed him as head of the county Democratic organization -- said his mentor rescued the party from ''its lowest ebb'' in 1986.
        In February of that year, Donald R. Manes, the longtime party leader and Queens borough president, resigned both positions and a month later committed suicide, amid federal investigations of influence-peddling and corruption across several city agencies, part of a series of scandals that shook up the administration of Edward I. Koch, who was then the mayor.
        ''There was not a hint of scandal or corruption under Manton,'' said Assemblyman Michael N. Gianaris, a Queens Democrat who was once an aide in one of Mr. Manton's Congressional offices. ''The party organization has been one of the most unified in the State of New York and has been very inclusive of the diverse population of Queens.''
        State Senator John D. Sabini, a Queens Democrat who was interim party chairman in Queens after Mr. Manes resigned, until Mr. Manton was elected that September, praised his colleague. ''He was a quick wit and liked to take the measure of someone's character,'' Mr. Sabini said. ''He wanted to be able to have a discussion with you and feel you were not only his equal at the bargaining table, but someone to be trusted.''
        Thomas Joseph Manton was born in Manhattan on Nov. 3, 1932, the only child of Thomas Manton, a plasterer from County Roscommon, and Margaret Manton, of County Mayo. He grew up in Astoria. He attended private Catholic schools in Queens and Brooklyn and was a flight navigator in the Marine Corps from 1951 to 1953.
        He graduated from St. John's University in 1958, where he received his law degree in 1962, but held other jobs while completing his studies. He was a police officer from 1955 to 1960, patrolling a beat in Harlem, and then a salesman for the I.B.M. Corporation from 1960 to 1964. He was admitted to the bar in 1963.
        Mr. Manton ran for City Council in 1969, drawing support from working-class white voters who were dissatisfied with the liberal social policies of Mayor John V. Lindsay. He served on the Council from 1970 to 1984. Mr. Manton ran for Congress twice unsuccessfully, in 1972 and 1978, before winning a seat in 1984, when he won an election to replace United States Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro, the Democratic vice presidential nominee that year.
        During seven terms in Congress, from 1985 to 1998, Mr. Manton was an important figure on reauthorization of the Superfund program, which provides for the cleanup of uncontrolled or abandoned hazardous waste sites, but most of his legislative initiatives were focused on local issues: stopping the Long Island Rail Road from building a waste-transfer station in western Queens, barring the creation of composting plants for sewage sludge in New York City and using amendments to the Clean Air Act to help local businesses. He sponsored a law that made benefits to permanently injured police officers on par with payments to officers killed in the line of duty.
        As co-chairman of the Congressional Ad-Hoc Committee on Irish Affairs, Mr. Manton helped persuade President Bill Clinton to meet with Gerry Adams, the president of Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, in 1995.
        Mr. Manton exerted firm control over patronage jobs -- at the City Council, in the courts, at the borough president's office and on the Board of Elections -- but he saw some of his clout dry up after 1989. Mr. Manton backed Richard Ravitch for mayor in a 1989 primary against the incumbent, Mr. Koch, who was seeking a fourth term. Then he switched sides and backed Mr. Koch at the last moment, only to see David N. Dinkins win. True to form, Mr. Manton cultivated Mr. Dinkins, and became a valuable ally.
        In July 1998, Mr. Manton said he was retiring and engineered the selection of Mr. Crowley, then a state assemblyman, to replace him on the Democratic Party line that fall. After his retirement, Mr. Manton joined a law firm in Rego Park, Queens, that became known as Manton, Sweeney, Gallo, Reich & Bolz.
        According to a partner at the firm, Gerard J. Sweeney, Mr. Manton retired in April of this year, after the state courts adopted a new rule barring county party leaders from working at firms that represent the estates of people who die without wills or without close relatives. Mr. Manton's name was removed from the firm.
        Mr. Manton is survived by his wife, the former Diane Mason Schley, who is a retired nurse; their four children, Cathy Manton Laurent of Schenectady, N.Y., Thomas K. Manton of London, John T. Manton of Woodside, Queens, and Jeanne, of Astoria; and four grandchildren.
        A funeral is scheduled for Friday at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Sebastian in Woodside. City officials have directed flags at municipal buildings to be flown at half-staff from today through Friday.
      