
        H. Freeman Matthews Jr., a Foreign Service officer who helped lay the groundwork for the 1978 Camp David Peace Accords, which brought an end to three decades of conflict between Israel and Egypt, died Saturday in Washington. He was 78.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his wife of 46 years, Nancy Henneberger Matthews of Chevy Chase, Md.
        Mr. Matthews was the deputy chief of mission at the United States Embassy in Cairo, working behind the scenes as President Jimmy Carter prodded Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt toward the negotiating table.
        Edward S. Walker Jr., a former ambassador to Israel and Egypt and now the president of the Middle East Institute, a research institution in Washington, said Mr. Matthews had worked directly for two years with Ambassador Alfred L. Atherton Jr., the Carter administration's Middle East envoy, on the details that preceded the formal talks, including talking to Egyptian and Israeli officials and preparing position papers.
        That work came to fruition on Sept. 17, 1978. After 12 days of tense negotiations at Camp David, Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat went to the White House and, with Mr. Carter between them, signed the treaty and shook hands. The treaty's provisions for Israel's staged withdrawal from Sinai and for no outright hostilities after the 1973 war have held. Its call for a resolution to the Palestinian question has so far failed.
        Harrison Freeman Matthews Jr. was born on Dec. 31, 1927, in Bogotá, Colombia, a son of Harrison Freeman Matthews Sr. and Elizabeth Luke Matthews. His father, who later became an ambassador to Sweden, the Netherlands and Austria and a deputy under secretary of state in the Kennedy administration, was then a Foreign Service officer.
        Mr. Matthews, who spent his boyhood in capitals around the world, was a private in the Army during the occupation of Japan after World War II. He graduated from Princeton University in 1950. Two years later, after working at a bank in New York, he joined the Foreign Service. He served in Sicily, Switzerland and Spain before becoming chief of the State Department's political section in Saigon during the Vietnam War.
        He was political counselor at the United States Embassy in Mexico from 1970 to 1973, and then was assigned to the embassy in Cairo. He retired from the Foreign Service in 1985. After retirement, he was chosen as a consultant to the Bureau of Diplomatic Security at the State Department, conducting crisis management exercises involving simulated threats at American embassies.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Matthews is survived by three sons, Luke, of Houston, John, of Lyon, France, and Timothy, of Jacksonville, Fla.; a daughter, Elizabeth Johns of Woodville, Va.; and 10 grandchildren.
      