
        Vern Leroy Bullough, a historian of medicine and sexuality noted for chronicling the development of American nursing, died on June 21 at his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Bullough wrote prolifically about prostitution, medieval medicine and modern sexual practices but found his largest audience in writing about nursing.
        Working with his first wife, Bonnie Bullough, a former dean of nursing at the State University of New York at Buffalo, he edited and wrote a series of nursing texts and reference books that began in the 1960's and continued until recently. Bonnie Bullough died in 1996.
        In the middle of his historical accounts, Dr. Bullough endeared himself to his audience by earning a bachelor's degree in nursing from California State University in 1981. At the top of his résumé, he listed a nursing license number and his R.N. credential, although he never practiced.
        One of the Bulloughs' books, ''The Care of the Sick: The Emergence of Modern Nursing'' (1978), traces the profession from Florence Nightingale to the founding of professional American nursing in 1873 and tells how the profession grows and reacts to changes in health care.
        Dr. Bullough also helped edit an influential reference in three volumes, American Nursing: A Biographical Dictionary (1988, 1992, 2000). Barbara M. Brodie, an emerita professor of nursing at the University of Virginia, praised Dr. Bullough's ''crystal clear narrative, insight and understanding of his audience'' in writing about the history of licensing, the entry of men into the field and other developments.
        In other work, he discussed the sexual practices and society's perception of homosexuals in the Middle Ages. A book edited by Dr. Bullough, ''Medieval Handbook of Sexuality'' (1996), covered contraception, circumcision and homosexual relationships and became ''an encyclopedic and extremely useful guide to the history of sexual behavior,'' said James A. Brundage, a medievalist and emeritus professor of history at the University of Kansas.
        He also helped write studies of homosexuality and cross-dressing and a history of sex research. Dr. Brundage and Dr. Brodie said his scholarship fueled a lifelong interest in activism for gay, racial and feminist causes.
        Dr. Bullough was born in Salt Lake City in 1928. He earned an undergraduate degree from the University of Utah in 1951. In 1954, he received his doctorate in the history of medicine and science from the University of Chicago.
        He taught at California State from 1959 to 1980 before moving to SUNY Buffalo, where he was a professor of history and sociology until 1993. At Buffalo, he also served as dean of the faculty of natural and social sciences.
        Dr. Bullough then returned to California State University, Northridge, as a visiting professor of sociology. He taught nursing courses at the University of Southern California until 2004.
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing.
        Dr. Bullough is survived by his wife, Gwen W. Brewer, an emerita professor of English literature at California State.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Susan, of Los Angeles; three sons, James Bullough-Latsch, Steven Bullough and Michel Hayworth, all of Los Angeles; and a grandchild.
        Correction:  July 12, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on July 3 about Vern Leroy Bullough, a historian of medicine and sexuality, referred imprecisely to the California and New York State universities with which he was associated. He taught at California State University in Northridge, a specific part of the state university system, not at the system in general. He was also the dean of the faculty of natural and social sciences at Buffalo State College, not at SUNY Buffalo.
      