
        George W. Wetherill, a planetary scientist whose studies of the age of Earth's rocks led to theories explaining how freewheeling bodies in space can coalesce to create new planets, died on July 19 at his home in Washington. He was 80.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Wetherill was a researcher at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, where he helped to develop techniques for dating granites, minerals and other rocks by using radioactive isotopes. One technique measured the natural decay of an isotope, rubidium, and compared it to established measurements of decayed uranium and other isotopes to indicate a rock's antiquity. Rubidium dating was successful and became an accepted tool of geochronology.
        Dr. Wetherill later established the dates of lunar rocks and meteorites, and he turned his attention to the origins of meteorites and asteroids and the formation of planets. He and other scientists theorized that Jupiter's gravitational field might have served as a barrier in shielding Earth from potentially catastrophic impacts with comets and debris from space.
        In studying how some planets may have formed through an accretion of many smaller bodies, Dr. Wetherill was ''trying to figure out if other planets like Earth could form around stars in our galaxy, and how planets form around binary star systems,'' said Stephen J. Kortenkamp, a collaborator with him, and a research scientist at the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson.
        George West Wetherill was born in Philadelphia. He received his doctorate in physics from the University of Chicago in 1953.
        He was named a professor of geophysics and geology at the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1960. From 1968 to 1972, he was chairman of the university's planetary and space science department.
        Dr. Wetherill returned to the Carnegie Institution's department of terrestrial magnetism in 1975, and served as its director until 1991. He remained at Carnegie as a staff member until 2001.
        From 1977 to 1980, he was president of the International Association of Geochemistry and Cosmochemistry. He was also a former president of the Meteoritical Society and the Geochemical Society.
        He received the National Medal of Science in 1997.
        Dr. Wetherill is survived by his wife of eight years, Mary Bailey. His first wife, the former Phyllis Steiss, died in 1995.
        He is also survived by two daughters, Rachel of Round Hill, Va., and Sarah Wetherill Okumura of Morgan Hill, Calif.
      