
        Vincent J. Fuller, the lawyer who used the insanity defense to win the acquittal of John W. Hinckley Jr. in the 1981 assassination attempt against President Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday in Derwood, Md. He was 75.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife of 49 years, Beatrice Fuller of Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. Fuller, noted for his representation of high-profile defendants, including the former heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson and the boxing promoter Don King, was a senior partner in the powerful Washington law firm Williams & Connolly. His college teacher and mentor, Edward Bennett Williams, was a founder of the firm in 1967.
        A short, stocky man, Mr. Fuller was known for his blunt, hard-driving courtroom manner. In 1982, during the Hinckley trial, James J. Bierbower, then the president of the District of Columbia Bar Association, said of Mr. Fuller, ''He's a bulldog; he's there; he keeps coming back at you.''
        Vincent John Fuller was born on June 21, 1931, in Ossining, N.Y., the son of John Vincent Fuller Sr. (Mr. Fuller declined to be called junior) and Rose Croke Fuller. His father was a municipal court judge and later the mayor of Ossining.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Fuller is survived by three daughters, Kenwyn Kindfuller of Short Hills, N.J., Beatrice Fuller and Alison Fuller, both of Bethesda; two sons, Vincent, of Bethesda, and Anthony, of Winchester, Mass.; and 13 grandchildren.
        In 1952, Mr. Fuller graduated from Williams College, where he played varsity football and joined the Navy reserve officer's training program. After graduation, he served two years as an operations officer on a destroyer in the Pacific, though he did not see combat in the Korean War.
        In 1956, Mr. Fuller graduated from the Georgetown University Law School, where Mr. Williams was one of his professors. At the time, Mr. Williams, who died in 1988, had his own law firm. He hired Mr. Fuller and used him as an associate in representing controversial figures like James R. Hoffa and the mobster Frank Costello.
        Mr. Fuller relished high-profile cases. In 1984, he won acquittal for Mr. King, the boxing promoter, on federal tax evasion charges. He was less successful in 1992 when he represented Mr. Tyson, who was charged with raping an 18-year-old beauty pageant contestant in his hotel room in Indianapolis. Mr. Tyson was sentenced to 10 years in prison, with the last four years suspended.
        Mr. Fuller's defense in the Hinckley case was a notable success. In June 1982, Mr. Hinckley, then 27, was found not guilty by reason of insanity on all 13 charges of shooting President Reagan and three other men, including the president's press secretary, James S. Brady, on March 30, 1981.
        In presenting his case, Mr. Fuller submitted an unmailed letter found in Mr. Hinckley's hotel room, which said he wanted to assassinate the president to win the love of the actress Jodie Foster, then a teenager, whom he had pestered with telephone calls and love letters. In his closing argument, Mr. Fuller described his client's pursuit of the actress as ''pathetic and delusional.''
        Asked for comment in the hallway outside the court in Washington, Mr. Fuller would say only, ''Another day, another dollar.''
      