
        Herty Lewites, a contender in the race for the Nicaraguan presidency and an innovative minister of tourism under the Sandinistas, died Sunday of a heart attack in Managua. He was 66.
        His death was confirmed by President Enrique Bolaños.
        At the age of 19, Mr. Lewites joined the rebellion against the dynastic Somoza government. He later joined the leftist Sandinista National Liberation Front.
        In the 1970's, the Sandinistas sent him to California with the assignment of smuggling guns to Nicaragua. After several successful runs, carrying weapons concealed in trucks, he was arrested by United States agents and spent six months in federal prison.
        After the Sandinistas won their revolutionary war in 1979, Mr. Lewites was appointed minister of tourism. He won fame and funds by opening beach resorts and ''dollar stores'' where diplomats and other foreigners could buy imported goods otherwise unavailable in Nicaragua.
        When the Sandinistas lost power in an election in 1990 amid charges of corruption and sexual misconduct against their leader, Daniel Ortega, Mr. Lewites remained popular, especially after he opened an amusement park called Hertylandia.
        In 2000, after serving a term in Congress, he was easily elected mayor of Managua, the capital.
        Mr. Lewites became increasingly critical of the Sandinista leadership. Expelled from the Sandinista Front, he founded his own party, the Movement for Sandinista Renewal.
        He centered his presidential campaign on a promise to end the system of strongman rule. He was considered a threat to the continued power of the country's two old-style political bosses, Mr. Ortega and the leader of the Liberal party, Arnoldo Alemán, a former president who was convicted on corruption charges.
        Several of the most prominent members of the Sandinista government that ruled during the 1980's worked actively on Mr. Lewites's campaign, which was in third place in recent polls.
        Herty Lewites was born in the Nicaraguan province of Jinotepe on Dec. 24, 1939, the son of a Jewish candy manufacturer from Poland who had fallen in love with a Nicaraguan woman while on a visit from New York, and settled in Nicaragua.
        American officials had disdained Mr. Lewites as an unreconstructed leftist, but on June 27, Thomas A. Shannon Jr., the assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, met with him in Managua.
        In an interview published in May in The American Prospect, Mr. Lewites said he represented ''a new, open, modern, democratic Sandinismo.''
        ''The new Sandinista movement is center-left, wants stable relations with the United States instead of confrontation, and good relations with all countries,'' he said.
        Correction:  July 6, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Herty Lewites, a contender in the race for the Nicaraguan presidency, gave an incorrect title in some copies for an American official who met with him recently. The official, Thomas A. Shannon Jr., is assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs, not deputy secretary of state.
      