
        John L. Weinberg, a senior investment banker who ran Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1990 and who was part of a family dynasty that has been at the firm since 1907, died Monday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 81.
        The cause was complications from a fall two weeks ago, said Peter Rose, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs.
        With John C. Whitehead he was senior partner at Goldman Sachs from 1976 to 1984 and continued to lead the firm on his own until he retired in 1990, capping a 40-year career at the bank. During that period, Goldman had some of its best times, but it also endured bad times, including the scandal surrounding the bankruptcy of Penn Central (a client of Goldman Sachs) in 1976 to insider-trading accusations directed at a senior Goldman partner in the mid-1980's.
        While Goldman's partners had praise for Mr. Weinberg's leadership during those low points, it was his decision in 1986 to accept a $500 million investment from Sumitomo Bank of Japan that is widely seen as his defining moment at the firm.
        The investment, which came with no strings attached, gave Goldman a fresh source of capital just before the stock market crash in 1987 and was instrumental in giving the firm the resources it needed to compete with peers like Morgan Stanley that were breaking up their own partnerships and selling shares to the public.
        Mr. Weinberg also presided over the purchase of the commodities trading firm J. Aron in 1981. That acquisition would eventually lay the groundwork for the rich profits currently generated by the firm's principal trading and investing areas. The deal also brought to the firm a future chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, who assumed that position in June. Mr. Weinberg also served briefly on Goldman's board following its public offering in 1999.
        A former marine who saw combat during World War II, Mr. Weinberg had a blunt, unpretentious manner. His style, like his disposition, was unadorned. He kept his hair closely cropped and wore off-the-rack suits and socks that hung a bit too low. He was also known for his earthy maxims, many of them aimed to deflate the ballooning egos of his bankers.
        A relationship banker of the old style, Mr. Weinberg's chief talent was his ability to gain entree to the boardrooms of America's most blue-chip companies, from Ford Motor, to General Electric to DuPont, a trait that he inherited from his father, Sidney J. Weinberg, who led Goldman Sachs from 1930 to 1969 and in many ways defined the art of relationship banking on Wall Street. Mr. Weinberg's son, John S. Weinberg, who is 49 and is currently co-head of investment banking, has carried on the family tradition.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Weinberg, who lived in Greenwich, is survived by his wife, Sue Ann; a daughter, Jean Weinberg Rose of Greenwich; and five grandchildren.
        John S. Weinberg has inherited his father's clients, like Seagram and Ford and was recently appointed vice chairman at the firm. John. L. Weinberg's brother, Sidney J. Weinberg Jr., and his nephew Peter A. Weinberg have also held senior management positions at the firm. Under Mr. Weinberg's leadership, Goldman also expanded aggressively overseas.
        In contrast to a relentless focus on the bottom line, or being ''long-term greedy,'' a term coined by Gus Levy, a legendary Goldman trader and senior partner from the past, Mr. Weinberg always seemed to be more focused on the client -- even if it that meant that the firm might come up short.
        ''I don't think John ever thought about money,'' said Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary who, together with Stephen Friedman succeeded Mr. Weinberg. ''It goes back to his father -- when he dealt with clients he never thought about the transaction, he thought about them.''
        As an example, Goldman executives point to an underwriting that Goldman managed for the British government just after the crash of 1987 that, as recounted in a history of the firm, ''Goldman Sachs: The Culture of Success'' by Lisa J. Endlich, cost the firm $100 million.
        ''It's expensive and painful,'' Mr. Weinberg said, according to Ms. Endlich's account in the book. ''But we are going to do it and those of you who decide not to do it, you won't be underwriting a goat house. Not even an outhouse.''
        John Livingston Weinberg was born Jan. 25, 1925, in Scarsdale, N.Y., and went to Deerfield Academy, Princeton University and Harvard Business School. During his senior year at Deerfield, he joined the Marines and was soon leading troops in the Pacific while still a teenager. After beginning at Goldman, he would return to duty during the Korean War and was promoted to captain.
        He was a trustee at Deerfield and Princeton and honorary chairman of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware.
        Correction:  August 10, 2006, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about John L. Weinberg, a former senior partner at Goldman Sachs, misstated the date of the bankruptcy filing of the Penn Central railroad, which was a client of Goldman Sachs. It was 1970, not 1976.
      