
        James Harvey Young, a social historian of American medicine who wrote engaging studies of fraud, dubious cures and health quackery and later chronicled the birth of federal food regulation, died July 29 in Atlanta. He was 90.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Young, an emeritus professor of history at Emory University, wrote two volumes on the study of drugs and therapeutic devices of the sort once hawked at sideshows and through mail-order catalogs.
        In ''The Toadstool Millionaires: A Social History of Patent Medicines in America Before Federal Regulation'' (1961), he addressed the laxatives, tonics and other concoctions ''often mixed with a strong dose of alcohol'' that were popular in the 19th century and profiled their salesmen.
        Howard R. Lamar, an emeritus history professor and former acting president of Yale, said the book had ''an ironic title, describing people who made money out of questionable medicines, created from herbs or animals or from nothing at all.''
        A second volume, ''The Medical Messiahs: A Social History of Health Quackery in Twentieth-Century America'' (1967), continued the thread and covered false cures for cancers and other illnesses. The book also touched on a subject that became the focus of Dr. Young's work on the history and development of federal standards for food and medicines.
        Dr. Young looked at milk, oleomargarine, canned pork and beef as carriers of food-borne illnesses, and the public's growing demand for regulatory control of food quality. The result was ''Pure Food: Securing the Federal Food and Drugs Act of 1906'' (1989), which examined federal oversight to the 1950's. Dr. Lamar called the book a ''remarkably fresh treatment of the subject.''
        Todd L. Savitt, a historian and a professor of medical humanities at East Carolina University, said Dr. Young ''allowed us to smile at the past and its imperfections without deriding it.'' Dr. Savitt, who edited a book with Dr. Young about disease in the South, added: ''He made history readable and taught us that we shouldn't always judge the past by present-day standards.''
        In other work, Dr. Young wrote about the early history of Georgia. He was a former president of the Southern Historical Association.
        James Harvey Young was born in Brooklyn. He received an undergraduate degree from Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., and a doctorate from the University of Illinois.
        He joined Emory as an instructor in 1941 and remained there his entire career. He served as chairman of the history department from 1958 to 1966, and retired in 1984.
        In 1982, the American Association for the History of Medicine awarded him its William H. Welch Medal.
        Dr. Young's wife, Dr. Myrna Goode Young, a classicist, died in 2000. He is survived by two sons, Harvey G., of Doraville, Ga., and James W., of Phoenix; and by two grandchildren.
      