
        Joel W. Hedgpeth, a marine biologist and an environmental advocate who became an early voice for the rich diversity of plants and animals living along California's coastline, died on July 28 in Hillsboro, Ore. He was 94.
        His death was confirmed by his family.
        Dr. Hedgpeth studied the biology and distribution of sea spiders, or Pycnogonida, a group of bottom-dwelling organisms found along coastlines and dock pilings and in deep-ocean areas. He conducted his work worldwide, and described species in the Atlantic Ocean and off the Galápagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean.
        His advocacy was concentrated on California's coastline and San Francisco Bay. Dr. Hedgpeth expressed concern that inland diversions of freshwater tributaries threatened to increase the salinity of Monterey Bay, unsettling its balance of marine species.
        In the 1960's, he worked to defeat a nuclear power plant proposed by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company near Bodega Bay in California.
        Dr. Hedgpeth's 1962 book ''Introduction to Seashore Life of the San Francisco Bay Region'' remains ''popular and highly poetic,'' said James T. Carlton, a professor of marine sciences at Williams College and the director of the Williams Maritime Studies Program at Mystic Seaport in Connecticut.
        As a young biologist in the 1930's and 40's, Dr. Hedgpeth met and corresponded with Edward F. Ricketts, a charismatic and largely self-taught researcher of West Coast intertidal life. In the same period, Mr. Ricketts met another promising student of marine biology, John Steinbeck. In ''Cannery Row'' and ''Sweet Thursday,'' Steinbeck's lyrical novels about the fringes of coastal culture on Monterey Bay, Mr. Ricketts served as the model for the hard-drinking character Doc.
        Dr. Hedgpeth later lectured on ''Cannery Row'' and its role in enlarging the public's appreciation for the subtle web of seaweed, sponges, crabs and starfish that are uncovered on shore rocks at low tide. He was the editor for several editions of Mr. Ricketts's classic description of marine mammals and invertebrates along the coasts of California, Oregon and Washington. The book, ''Between Pacific Tides,'' with images by Jack Calvin and now edited by David W. Phillips, is in its fifth edition.
        Dr. Hedgpeth edited more of Mr. Ricketts's writings in two volumes of ''The Outer Shores'' and established his reputation as ''an incredible reservoir of historical knowledge of biology, people, animals and plants,'' Dr. Carlton said.
        Dr. Hedgpeth, who enjoyed literature and wordplay, also wrote and published poems about the sea, in English and in Welsh, under the pseudonym Jerome Tichenor.
        Joel Walker Hedgpeth was born in Oakland, Calif. He earned his doctorate in zoology from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1952.
        He taught at the University of Texas, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, the University of the Pacific and Oregon State University. He also directed the Pacific Marine Station at Dillon Beach, Calif.
        Dr. Hedgpeth retired in 1973, but continued to publish. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Florence Warrens. The couple lived in Santa Rosa, Calif.
        He is also survived by a daughter, Sarah H. Boly of Hillsboro; a son, Warren, of Santa Rosa; and six grandchildren.
      