
        Joel W. Harnett, a businessman and civic watchdog who finished last in the Democratic primary for mayor of New York City in 1977, but fueled debate by helping to force the release of a federal investigative report on questionable financial manipulations by city leaders, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Phoenix. He was 80.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Lila.
        Mr. Harnett, who resigned as chairman of the City Club of New York, a government watchdog group, to run for office, sued the Securities and Exchange Commission to release a report that the commission contended was not yet finished. After a Manhattan federal judge began looking into the evidence, the commission released the report.
        It essentially said that Mayor Abraham D. Beame had deceived the public about the city's perilous financial condition while it was selling a record number of securities to unsuspecting investors. The document drew a storm of caustic comment from Mayor Beame's six challengers.
        The primary campaign ended with Edward I. Koch, then a congressman, winning the Democratic mayoral nomination; Mario M. Cuomo, then lieutenant governor, finishing second, and Mr. Beame third. Mr. Harnett was last in the seven-person race.
        Mr. Harnett focused on economic issues in his campaign, emphasizing a need to cut taxes to remain competitive with other cities and states. A marketing executive at Look magazine himself, he argued that the city needed to sell itself better.
        Joel William Harnett was born in Brooklyn and grew up in the Seagate community on Coney Island. He graduated in 1945 from the University of Richmond, in Virginia, majoring in history and earning Phi Beta Kappa honors.
        He worked for Look for 20 years. As vice president for marketing and sales promotion, he came up with ways of focusing advertising on more affluent areas so makers of luxury goods could reach the rarefied audience they wanted, rather than all of Look's 8 million readers.
        Mr. Harnett then started his own company, Media Horizons Inc., which owned radio stations and specialized in publishing magazines directed to readers who market and advertise disparate products. They included Home Video, Law Enforcement Communications and Biomedical Communications.
        While in business, he also addressed civic issues, first as a member of the City Club, then as its chairman. One of his consistent themes was the need for economic efficiency in city government. He also fought against plans for Westway, a superhighway planned along the Hudson River in Manhattan, and the Second Avenue Subway, arguing that both were unnecessary.
        He joined Jacqueline Onassis and others to fight for landmark status for Grand Central Terminal and criticized the power of municipal labor unions.
        In 1979, Mr. Harnett and his wife moved to Phoenix, where he became involved in the Valley Citizens League, a nonpartisan civic group. He and his wife started Phoenix Home and Garden, an upscale magazine that featured tips on growing plants in a desert climate.
        The couple collected art and made large donations to museums. They gave money for galleries at the Phoenix Art Museum and at the Heard Museum in Phoenix. The University of Richmond named its art museum for them.
        Mr. Harnett wrote and published several of his own books, including the forthcoming ''The Devil's Own Politics: The Explosive Political Rise and Fall of the Evangelical Movement.'' He was a retired major in the Army Reserve.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his brother, Bertram.
        Correction:  August 17, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Joel W. Harnett, a civic watchdog and businessman who sought the Democratic nomination for mayor of New York in 1977, misidentified the office held at that time by another candidate, Mario M. Cuomo. (Both men lost to Edward I. Koch.) Mr. Cuomo was secretary of state, not lieutenant governor.
      