
        Joseph F. Carlino, a leading Long Island Republican for 20 years and the speaker of the New York State Assembly from 1959 to 1964, died on Sunday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 89 and had suffered a stroke eight years ago.
        His death was confirmed by Alphonse M. D'Amato, the former United States senator from New York, who said he got his start in politics from Mr. Carlino after meeting him at a March of Dimes fund-raiser 45 years ago.
        Mr. Carlino was one of the first truly powerful Italian-American Republicans in New York, said Mr. D'Amato, who called him ''a trailblazer'' as well as ''a bridge builder'' who forged political links with Democrats in the Assembly.
        Joseph Francis Carlino was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on June 23, 1917. He got his start in politics from his father, Lorenzo, who became the Republican leader of Long Beach, in Nassau County, in 1937. When the elder Mr. Carlino died in 1943, his son, a recent graduate of Fordham University School of Law, was chosen to fill his father's shoes.
        The next year, Mr. Carlino, at 27, was elected in his own right as a member of the Assembly. In January 1955, he became the majority leader, and in July 1959 he became the speaker. He was a moderate Republican who aimed to steer a course between upstate conservatives and New York City progressives.
        Mr. Carlino, an immaculate dresser, strove to instill a measure of decorum in the Legislature. He pleaded with his fellow politicians to cease and desist from munching sandwiches, chattering and dropping their ashes and chewing tobacco far from the edges of their spittoons when the Assembly was in session.
        He was more successful in working with Assembly Democrats and with Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, who took office in 1959, to help create a hugely ambitious list of public works. During Mr. Carlino's five years as speaker, the state embarked on or planned major improvements to the New York State Thruway and much of the state university system. Mr. Carlino also argued for and won votes to support increased state aid to public schools and a ban on racial bias in housing.
        ''He had a working relationship with the Democratic side that is probably unparalleled in the history of the Legislature,'' Mr. D'Amato said. ''He was able to accomplish things. He had the ability to achieve.''
        The end of his 20-year career in the Assembly came in the Democratic landslide of the 1964 election. The traditional Republican bastions of Long Island crumbled as Lyndon B. Johnson was elected president, Robert F. Kennedy was elected a United States senator from New York, and both houses of the State Legislature were controlled by Democrats. Twenty-three Republican Assemblymen lost their seats, among them Mr. Carlino.
        His defeat was seen as an upset. ''To say anyone could leave this position with a sense of joy and happiness would certainly be untrue,'' he said in a farewell speech.
        Mr. Carlino, who had held an ambition to become governor, resigned as Nassau County's Republican Party chairman and started a second career as one of Albany's best-paid lobbyists. In 1969, Governor Rockefeller sent him to Panama to advise Gen. Omar Torrijos, who had taken power in a coup, on the wisdom of forming a more representative government.
        Mr. Carlino's first wife, Joanne, whom he met in high school while working as a lifeguard, died in 1988. His second wife, Annelisa, died in 1994. A son, Joseph Jr., died in 1977. He is survived by his daughter, Donna Maria McCoyd of Garden City, N.Y.; his son Robert, of East Moriches, N.Y.; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      