
        Miguel (Angá) Díaz, the virtuosic Cuban conga player who became one of the world's best-known percussionists, died on Aug. 9 at his home in Sant Sadurní d'Anoia, a small town outside of Barcelona, Spain. He was 45.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Blake Zidell, a publicist at Sacks & Company in New York City.
        Mr. Díaz was born Miguel Aurelio Díaz Zayas in the town of San Juan y Martinez, in the province of Pinar del Rio, Cuba. He studied classical percussion at the National School of Art in Havana and spent his first nine professional years recording and performing with the band Opus 13.
        But he made his reputation with the Cuban supergroup Irakere in the late 1980's and early 1990's, playing alongside the pianist Chucho Valdés. That was when Mr. Díaz perfected his complex, melodic five-conga style -- a technique built on what he learned from the percussionist Jorge (Niño) Alfonso, whom he replaced in the group. He left Irakere in 1994 as opportunities for traditional Cuban musicians started to diversify into jazz, hip-hop, and other areas; subsequently Mr. Díaz became more recognized outside of Cuba.
        In 1995 he established Paris as a second home base, taught master classes in California and Canada and began collaborating with the jazz saxophonist Steve Coleman. In 1996 he recorded with the jazz trumpeter Roy Hargrove and accompanied Mr. Valdés to New York when Mr. Valdés played a series of memorable shows at the club Bradley's. Mr. Díaz also became part of the touring group associated with the ''Buena Vista Social Club'' phenomenon; as part of that constellation of Cuban artists who recorded for the English record label World Circuit, he played on albums by Afro-Cuban All Stars, Omara Portuondo, Ruben Gonzalez, Ibrahim Ferrer and others.
        After playing a major role on the album ''Cachaito,'' an eclectic World Circuit production led by the bassist Cachaito Lopez which brought together rumba, reggae and electronic music, Mr. Díaz's vision for his own music began to take shape. The result, finally, was ''Echu Mingua,'' released last year by World Circuit, an album that went in many directions at once, including West African music, Santeria chants, hip-hop and versions of themes by John Coltrane and Thelonious Monk.
        Mr. Díaz had moved to Barcelona in 2003. He is survived by his father, Aurelio Díaz Fernandes, and his mother, Maria Luisa Zayas Hernandez of San Juan y Martinez, Cuba; his brother, the singer Juan (El Indio) Díaz of Barcelona; and his daughters, Lisa and Naomi Díaz of Paris, and Yanira Díaz of Miami.
      