
        Milton Kaye, a pianist and arranger who moved with ease from accompanying Heifetz to writing theme music for the TV quiz show ''Concentration,'' from playing in Toscanini's orchestra to playing the organ on ''The Rootie Kazootie Show,'' died on Monday in Manhattan.
        He was 97. Before entering the hospital, where he died of pneumonia, he practiced some Bach and Beethoven as usual, finishing with a bit of Mozart, his wife, Shannon Bolin, said.
        Mr. Kaye represented a real but rare New York archetype: the talented musician who could and did play solo in Carnegie Hall, but more often was an integral part of groups, from top orchestras to children's television ensembles to chamber music quartets to ragtime combos. It was a job, yes, but always more than a job.
        Much of what he did, on radio, on early television and in uncountable live performances was not preserved, except in ancient newspaper clips.
        ''Because so much of what he did was ephemeral, it survives -- if it survives -- totally by accident,'' said Dennis D. Rooney, a music writer, editor and critic who presented a paper on Mr. Kaye at a meeting of the Association for Recorded Sound Collections in May.
        ''He took pains not to dignify himself with the trappings of a serious performer,'' he continued. ''He never had the soloist's temperament.''
        Among his accomplishments was introducing Shostakovich's Piano Concerto No. 1 to the United States in 1935, Mr. Rooney said. After a tour of European war zones as the accompanist to the violinist Jascha Heifetz, Mr. Kaye turned down a permanent job with him, in part so he could remain in Arturo Toscanini's NBC Symphony of the Air. Mr. Kaye was a musical director for shows on all three major networks as well as a member of the Virtuosi Piano Quartet.
        Milton Jay Katz, who later changed his last name, was born in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn on June 22, 1909. His father, Berish, was a self-taught musician who played klezmer and other music on at least five instruments.
        As a child, Milton went to Carnegie Hall concerts, where he would sit in the top balcony until he spotted and raced to an empty seat near the stage. His father tried to steer him away from a musical career, but by the time he was 8 he was playing in concerts. By 17, he was accompanying Erica Morini, a popular and accomplished violinist.
        He graduated from City College, where he majored in Latin, then went to the Institute of Musical Art, the forerunner to the Juilliard School, where he studied with the pianist Carl Friedberg, a legendary pedagogue. To please his father, he completed the program at Teachers College of Columbia University.
        He earned a doctorate at Columbia with a thesis on the differences in how Richard Rodgers composed for Lorenz Hart and for Oscar Hammerstein II.
        Meanwhile, he worked for WOR radio as an announcer. Soon, he was playing piano for the station, and later moved to WQXR to do the same thing, Mr. Rooney said.
        In 1944, when Heifetz's accompanist quit, Mr. Kaye was recommended for a tour to entertain American troops. In an interview with the magazine Strad, Mr. Kaye said he was mortified when he was asked to play alone at the start of the audition, and frightened even more when Heifetz played wildly and unpredictably to see if he could follow.
        In North Africa and Italy, the two played on the backs of trucks, in hospitals and in opera houses, sometimes with machine guns sputtering in the background.
        After the war, Heifetz asked Mr. Kaye to move to California to work with him, but he declined. In 1945, The New York Times covered his first solo recital at Town Hall, praising his ''command of light and shade, as well as color.''
        A veteran of radio, he began to find work in the new medium of television. His jobs ranged from ''Big Top,'' a children's show, to ''The Bell Telephone Hour'' to ''Concentration,'' for which Mr. Kaye led a two-man band and collaborated with his wife in composing new music to begin, end and punctuate the show, which he joined in 1961.
        His classical recordings included collaborations with Heifetz immediately after World War II; works with the violinist Oscar Shumsky, and a duet with the Australian violinist Ben Breen in 2005. There is no complete discography, Mr. Rooney said.
        Mr. Kaye's daughter, Jeanne Fingerhut, died 10 years ago, and he is survived only by his wife, who originated the role of Meg in ''Damn Yankees'' on Broadway, then reprised it in the movie.
        About four years ago, the couple made a commercial for De Beers diamonds. In a Monet-like scene photographed through gauze, Mr. Kaye, wearing a beret, holds hands with his wife as a much younger couple turns to look at them. It was supposed to run for a month, but is still being shown.
        Correction:  August 23, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Milton Kaye, a versatile classical pianist also active in broadcasting and popular music, misidentified the institution at which he earned a Ph.D. with a dissertation on the music composed by Richard Rodgers for Lorenz Hart and Oscar Hammerstein II. It was New York University, not Columbia.
        Correction:  August 28, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Aug. 17 about Milton Kaye, a pianist and arranger, misstated the timing of the death of his daughter, Jeanne Fingerhut, and omitted some survivors. She died 4 years ago, not 10. Besides his wife, Shannon Bolin, Mr. Kaye is survived by a son, Charles Kaye, and five grandchildren.
      