
        Harold Scott, an actor, producer and director and the first black artistic director of a major American regional theater, died at his home in Newark on July 16. He was 70.
        He died of natural causes, said Doug Hosney, the production manager at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Milburn, N.J., and a stage manager on many of Mr. Scott's productions.
        Mr. Scott had already been an actor in noteworthy plays both on and off Broadway before making history as artistic director of the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park from 1972 to 1974. He began his career off Broadway, performing in ''The Blacks'' by Jean Genet, Mart Crowley's ''Boys in the Band'' and Edward Albee's ''Death of Bessie Smith.'' In 1958, Mr. Scott was in the musical adaptation of ''The Egg and I'' by Betty MacDonald, where, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times, he displayed ''an excellent voice, as well an instinct for the stage.''
        Mr. Scott won an Obie Award in 1959 for his performance in Genet's ''Deathwatch.''
        In 1964, four years after making his Broadway debut in a short-lived production of ''The Cool World,'' an urban melodrama, Mr. Scott became a member in the Repertory Theater of Lincoln Center, under the direction of Elia Kazan and Robert Whitehead. He performed in Arthur Miller's ''After the Fall'' and ''Incident at Vichy,'' Thomas Middleton's ''Changeling'' and in Eugene O'Neill's ''Marco Millions,'' under the direction of José Quintero.
        When new directors at Lincoln Center told Mr. Scott, at the time the only black actor in the permanent company, that he would no longer be part of the troupe, he wrote a letter to Variety denouncing the under-representation of blacks in the theater.
        ''I would be delighted to participate in any company prepared and willing to support and sustain the idea of an American theater,'' Mr. Scott wrote, ''and by that I mean a totally integrated theater.''
        Frustrated with his limited opportunities as an actor, Mr. Scott then turned mostly to directing, at major regional theaters around the country, including Seattle Repertory Company and Washington's Arena Stage, as well as on Broadway, where he directed Morgan Freeman in a 1978 production of ''The Mighty Gents,'' a 1995 production of Tennessee Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer,'' and two productions -- one in 1988 and a limited-run engagement in 1995 -- of ''Paul Robeson,'' starring Avery Brooks, an actor Mr. Scott also directed in productions of ''King Lear'' at Yale Repertory Company and ''Othello'' at the Rutgers Theater Company.
        For almost 20 years, Ms. Scott was head of the directing program at the Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University.
        Harold Russell Scott Jr., was born on Sept. 6, 1935 in Morristown, N.J., and was educated at Philips Exeter Academy and Harvard.
        No immediate family members survive.
        In 1986, Mr. Scott directed the 25th-anniversary production of Lorraine Hansberry's ''Raisin in the Sun'' with Esther Rolle for the Roundabout Theater Company and later at the Kennedy Center in Washington. In a 1999 interview with The Times, Mr. Scott said he had auditioned for the now-legendary original 1959 production, as did the woman he was living with at the time, Diana Sands.
        '''She got the part,'' he recalled. ''I didn't.''
      