
        Robert K. Hoffman, a founder of National Lampoon magazine who went on to become a leading Dallas business owner and philanthropist and a major collector of contemporary art, died on Sunday in Dallas. He was 59.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        As an undergraduate at Harvard in 1969, Mr. Hoffman was one of three editors at The Harvard Lampoon who helped spin a popular campus humor magazine into an irreverent national institution that skewered American culture and later spawned movies like ''Animal House.''
        As the national magazine's original managing editor, Mr. Hoffman recalled, he was known less for his wit than for his business acumen and editing skills, but he was involved in the planning of several notorious early issues, like one with a cover illustration of Minnie Mouse as a stripper and another with a photo essay purporting to present evidence that President Nixon, then in his first term, was actually dead.
        In a 1995 interview with The Dallas Morning News, Mr. Hoffman reminisced with glee about a lawsuit filed by Volkswagen after the magazine ran a spoof advertisement featuring a floating Volkswagen Beetle along with the caption: ''If Ted Kennedy had been driving this car, he would be president today.''
        Mr. Hoffman's active involvement in the magazine lasted only about a year, and he and the other founders sold their shares in 1975. He used the money both to make his first serious purchase of artwork -- a passion since he was a teenager -- and to join his father, Edmund, in the soft-drink business at a company that became the Coca-Cola Bottling Group (Southwest) Inc. Over more than two decades, the two men built the company into the nation's fifth largest bottler of Coca-Cola and Dr Pepper before selling it, in 1998.
        After earning a master's degree in business administration from Harvard, Mr. Hoffman returned to Dallas, the city where he was born, and soon became deeply involved in the city's civic affairs. He was a longtime trustee of the St. Mark's School of Texas, a private boys' school from which he had graduated in 1965, and was chairman of the Dallas Arboretum and Botanical Society. In the early 1990's he also was chairman of the creation of the Dallas Plan, an ambitious 30-year development strategy for the city, which was approved in 1994.
        But it is probably through his activities as a collector and patron of the arts that Mr. Hoffman left his most lasting mark on Dallas. His mother, Adelyn, noted in a 1995 interview that while another of National Lampoon's founders, Douglas Kenney, bought a Porsche with the proceeds from the magazine's sale, her son bought a Helen Frankenthaler painting.
        Through the years, Mr. Hoffman, who called art ''the only effective method to travel and connect across time and space,'' also developed significant collections of the works of Jasper Johns, whom he called his hero, and those by Joseph Beuys, Joseph Cornell, Ellsworth Kelly, Willem de Kooning, Cy Twombly and Philip Guston. His home, in North Dallas, with a Sol LeWitt sculpture in front, became so filled with art that he and his wife, Marguerite, a former gallery director, had to build an exhibition space next door.
        Then, last year, the couple donated almost all of their collection, 224 pieces worth at least $150 million, to the Dallas Museum of Art, where he had also once been a trustee. The gift was part of a larger donation the Hoffmans helped orchestrate that included works from the collections of two other Dallas couples, Cindy and Howard Rachofsky and Deedie and Rusty Rose.
        In addition to his wife, the former Marguerite Steed, Mr. Hoffman is survived by his mother; three daughters, Augusta, Hannah and Kate; and a brother, Dr. Richard Hoffman of Denver.
        Despite his early experience as a media executive, Mr. Hoffman maintained a relatively low profile in Dallas and shied away from most publicity, even after he opened two popular Dallas restaurants. But he never completely shed the irreverence of his youth. In a speech at a business awards banquet in 1996, he ended his remarks by quoting the Monkees.
      