
        Umberto Baldini, the director of the conservation studios at the Uffizi Gallery who helped save and restore hundreds of artworks damaged by the famous Arno River flood of 1966, died at his home near Florence on Wednesday. He was 84.
        His funeral took place Aug. 17 at the church of San Giuseppe Vecchio in Marina di Massa, in Tuscany.
        The Arno flood began in the early morning hours of Nov. 4, sweeping into the city at almost 40 miles an hour from surrounding hills battered by two days of torrential rain. While the muddy, oily waters did not rise to the level of the Uffizi's main galleries on the second floor, they did pour into its storerooms, damaging more than 1,000 medieval and Renaissance paintings, sculptures and frescoes, some irreparably.
        Mr. Baldini oversaw the painstaking restoration project at the Uffizi and also took a leading role in organizing efforts at other museums, libraries and churches. He helped with a speedy effort to hire and train hundreds of artisans to dry, clean and restore artworks, and worked with experts to develop new restoration techniques. One novel method involved removing whole frescoes from church walls to protect them from corrosive salts seeping through masonry from basement crypts.
        Restoration at the Uffizi also yielded some surprises. Restorers working on a sculpture of Mary Magdalene by Donatello discovered that the dark-haired figure had once had golden tresses, and found remnants of the gold leaf that originally covered her knee-length hair.
        In 1970, Mr. Baldini reorganized the museum's newly sprawling conservation facilities, gathering them into a single institute and adding formal training programs for students of conservation.
        In 1983, he was named director of the Istituto Centrale per il Restauro in Rome, Italy's most prestigious conservation institute. As director, he led the project to clean and restore the Masaccio frescoes in the Brancacci Chapel of the Carmine Church in Florence. Begun in the 1420's and completed 60 years later by Fillipino Lippi, the frescoes depict scenes from the life of St. Peter and the Book of Genesis, including Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden.
        The restoration work, which was guided by the discovery of virtually unspoiled portions of the fresco hidden behind an altar, returned vivid colors to Masaccio's masterpiece while avoiding the kind of criticism hurled at conservators of the Sistine Chapel ceiling.
        Mr. Baldini, who was born in 1921 near Grosseto, in Tuscany, wrote books on the Brancacci Chapel, Masaccio and the restorations of Botticelli's ''Primavera'' and Cimabue's ''Crucifix.'' He was scheduled to deliver the keynote address this November at a symposium in Florence commemorating the 40th anniversary of the 1966 flood.
      