
        Jacob Mincer, a pioneer in labor economics who was the first to quantify the payoff from education and training, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Dr. Flora Kaplan Mincer, said.
        Mr. Mincer had spent most of his career as a professor of economics at Columbia University, retiring from active teaching in 1991.
        Mr. Mincer's calculations about the return on human capital came in the 1950's and 1960's, when the mixing of mathematics and empirical data was just coming into vogue among economists. Yet, nearly 40 years later, the framework that he developed is still in use.
        ''His very simple formulation basically fits the data for understanding how earnings are related to educational attainment in virtually every country in every time period,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard University labor economist.
        His groundbreaking work never won a Nobel Prize for Mr. Mincer, who was born in Poland and came to the United States on a scholarship in 1948 after spending most of the World War II years imprisoned. But he was frequently nominated for a Nobel by other labor economists, among them David Card of the University of California, Berkeley.
        ''The close blending of theory and data represented in Mincer's work has shaped the direction of labor economics and influenced and inspired all those who have followed him,'' Mr. Card wrote.
        Professor Mincer's model, drawing on data from the 1950 and 1960 Censuses, was the first to relate income distribution in America to the varying amounts of education and on-the-job training among workers. He calculated, for example, that annual earnings rose by 5 to 10 percent in the 1950's and 1960's for every year of additional schooling. There was a similar, although smaller, return on investment in job training -- and age played a role.
        Young people were willing to stay out of the work force while they invested in college because they had plenty of years to earn back the investment with a substantial return. The same held true for on-the-job training and the willingness of the young to accept lower pay in return for higher wages later in life.
        Mr. Mincer summed up this research in a 1974 book, ''Schooling, Experience and Earnings'' (Columbia University Press). He was also among the first to explore a woman's role in family earnings, taking his cue from his wife, a radiation oncologist, whom he followed to New York from Chicago when she accepted a hospital residency.
        ''It came to him later that the contribution of the wife should be applied to family decisions regarding income,'' said Dr. Mincer, who interrupted her own career for six years to raise children.
        When the couple met in the early 1950's, Mr. Mincer was a graduate student in economics at the University of Chicago and she a resident in a Chicago hospital. Soon after, she accepted a residency at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx and although they were not yet married, he followed her, shifting to Columbia.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Deborah M. Mincer and Carolyn F. Mincer, and two grandchildren. A son, Daniel, died of an illness 21 years ago.
        Jacob Mincer was born on July 15, 1922, in Tomaszow, Poland, the only son of Isaac Mincer and Deborah Eisen Mincer. When war came, Mr. Mincer was a 16-year-old college freshman in Brno, Czechoslovakia. He spent the war years in and out of prison camps in that country and Germany. His parents and two sisters fled east, but were killed by the advancing German army.
        Soon after the war ended, Mr. Mincer won a scholarship financed by the Hillel Foundation to study at Emory University in Atlanta. He earned a bachelor's degree there in 1950 and moved on to the University of Chicago and then Columbia, earning his Ph.D. in 1957. He taught at City University of New York before joining the Columbia faculty in 1960.
        The faculty then included Gary S. Becker, now a University of Chicago economist who later did win a Nobel Prize, for work roughly similar to Mr. Mincer's. ''I put his name forward several times,'' Mr. Becker said. ''But he was a retiring guy. He did not write op-ed pieces and promote himself actively.''
      