
        Glenn Ford, a laconic, soft-spoken actor with an easy smile who played leading roles in many westerns, melodramas and romantic films from the early 1940's through the 60's, died yesterday at his Beverly Hills home. He was 90.
        Paramedics called to the home shortly before 4 p.m. found him dead, the police said. He had a series of strokes in the 1990's.
        Mr. Ford, who had the ability to project a taut resoluteness and inner strength along with affability and gentleness, was never nominated for an Academy Award, although his acting consistently won high praise from critics and he was popular with moviegoers, especially in the 1950's. He started his Hollywood career seemingly typecast as an actor who could do well in undistinguished films. He thus made a series of B movies for Columbia Pictures, playing featured roles in such forgettable productions as ''Men Without Souls'' and ''My Son Is Guilty'' (both in 1940) and ''Texas,'' ''The Desperadoes'' and ''Destroyer'' (all in 1941).
        He usually attracted critical praise even when the script, production and direction were anything but praiseworthy.
        In 1946, for example, Mr. Ford starred opposite Rita Hayworth in ''Gilda,'' a film remembered mostly as the vehicle for her provocative rendition of a song called ''Put the Blame on Mame.'' Writing in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther praised Mr. Ford's ''stamina and poise in a thankless role.''
        But in the 1950's, Mr. Ford began to make pictures that were more consistent with the ability he had repeatedly demonstrated. In 1955, he played an idealistic, beleaguered teacher in ''Blackboard Jungle,'' which was about daily life in what was then regarded as a tough New York City high school.
        Gwyllyn Samuel Newton Ford was born on May 1, 1916, in Quebec, the only child of Newton and Hannah Ford.
        The Fords were of Welsh descent, and the family was quite prominent in Canada. Newton Ford was a railroad executive and mill owner who was a nephew of Sir John MacDonald, a former prime minister of Canada. Another Ford ancestor was Martin Van Buren, the eighth president of the United States.
        Gwyllyn, soon to be called Glenn, was initially reared in Portneuf, Quebec, an hour away from the city. When he was 7, his family moved to Santa Monica, Calif., where Mr. Ford was educated.
        After high school, he began working with small theater groups. He later said his father had no objection to his son's growing interest in acting but told him: ''It's all right for you to try to act, if you learn something else first. Be able to take a car apart and put it together. Be able to build a house, every bit of it. Then you'll always have something.''
        Mr. Ford listened to his father, and in the 1950's, when he was one of the nation's most popular actors, he regularly worked on plumbing, wiring and air-conditioning at home.
        At various times, Mr. Ford worked as a roofer and installer of plate-glass windows. At one point, he worked in a Santa Monica bar, keeping it clean for $5 a week. Years later, as a successful actor, he would drive by that bar almost every day. ''There are too many places here that won't let me forget how I started,'' he told an interviewer.
        In the late 1930's, he managed to get a screen test at 20th Century Fox but did not do well. A year later, he was given a second chance and won his first movie part in 1939 in ''Heaven With a Barbed-Wire Fence.''
        The B movies followed until 1943, when he joined the Marine Corps. While in the Marines, he met Eleanor Powell, the dancer, at a war-bond cavalcade. They were married in 1943. The marriage would end in divorce 16 years later. They had a son, Peter, who survives.
        In 1966, Mr. Ford married Kathryn Hays, an actress, but the marriage ended quickly. In 1977, he wed Cynthia Hayward, a model 32 years his junior. They divorced in 1984. In 1993, he married his nurse, Jeanne Baus, but they soon divorced.
        There were times when it seemed that Mr. Ford was averse to vacations. In 1960 and '61, he worked on four overlapping projects: ''The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse,'' ''Cry for Happy,'' ''Cimarron'' and ''Pocketful of Miracles.'' When someone noted in Mr. Ford's heyday that in five years, he had taken off an average of only 21 days between films, Mr. Ford replied, ''I like to work.''
        By 1965, all that work enabled him to build a $400,000 home in Beverly Hills, featuring an atrium over which hung a 900-pound artificial sun that could be switched on whenever Mr. Ford wanted to feel drenched with light. The house also held a replica of an English pub, to which he retreated when he preferred the shadows.
        Mr. Ford's better known films included ''Don't Go Near the Water'' (1957), ''Imitation General'' (1958), ''The Teahouse of the August Moon'' (1956), ''The Courtship of Eddie's Father'' (1963), ''The Rounders'' (1965) and ''Heaven With a Gun'' (1969).
        As Mr. Ford grew older, he was cast less frequently, but in ''Superman'' (1978) he appeared in a brief scene as Superman's Earth father. He also did some television work, including the series ''Cade's County'' (1971); ''Punch and Jody'' (1974); ''The Disappearance of Flight 412'' (1975); ''Evening in Byzantium'' (1978) and ''The Sacketts''(1979). In 1978, he was the host of a television series, ''When Havoc Struck.''
        Correction:  September 7, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Friday, and in some copies on Thursday, about the movie actor Glenn Ford referred incorrectly to three of his films and misstated the release date of two of them. ''Texas,'' ''The Desperadoes'' and ''Destroyer'' were major productions of Columbia Pictures, not B movies, and the latter two were released in 1943, not 1941.
        The obituary also rendered incorrectly the surname of the former prime minister of Canada who was Mr. Ford's father's uncle. He was Sir John A. Macdonald, not MacDonald. And on Thursday it also misidentified the town in the province of Quebec where Mr. Ford was reared until age 7. It was Ste.-Christine, in Portneuf County, not Portneuf.
      