
        Dr. James H. Jandl, a Harvard hematologist who helped explain the actions of red blood cells and later wrote an authoritative reference work on blood and blood disorders, died on July 17 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 80.
        His death was confirmed by his family.
        Dr. Jandl (pronounced YAHN-duhl) was the sole author of the 1,500-page ''Blood: Textbook of Hematology'' (1987), now in its second edition.
        The book, intended for specialists, gives a comprehensive overview of the blood's functions and its diseases, ''and handles complex material in an especially clear and adroit way, and with remarkable verbal images,'' said Dr. H. Franklin Bunn, a Harvard medical professor and former president of the American Society of Hematology. Dr. Bunn said it was unusual for a medical subject so vast to be handled by a single author.
        Dr. Jandl began his wide-ranging research on red blood cells in the 1950's. With a second researcher, Jay H. Katz, and others, he studied a blood protein, transferrin, and shed light on its important role in helping red cells to metabolize iron. A lack of iron in the bloodstream is associated with anemia.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Jandl and others worked on describing how autoimmune responses of the body can prematurely destroy red blood cells in the spleen and liver. He conducted ''one magnificent experiment after another,'' and in doing so set the standard of the period in experimental hematology, said Dr. David G. Nathan, a pediatric hematologist-oncologist at Harvard. Dr. Nathan, emeritus president of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, in Boston, said the research had resulted in an improved understanding of anemias and lymphoma.
        Dr. Jandl also studied drugs that are believed to be a cause of aplastic anemia, a serious disorder in which bone marrow fails to produce enough blood cells. In later work, he published a textbook for medical students, ''Blood: Pathophysiology'' (1991), and with another researcher, Carola T. Kapff, prepared a collection of color images of blood and bone marrow that is used to help diagnose blood disorders. That work is titled ''Blood: Atlas and Sourcebook of Hematology'' (1981).
        James Harriman Jandl was born in Racine, Wis. He received an undergraduate degree from Franklin & Marshall College and his medical degree from Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife of 32 years, the former Nancy Perrin. The couple lived in Concord, Mass. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by two sons, Dr. Robert Jandl, an internist, of Williamstown, Mass., and Ted Jandl of Sudbury, Mass.; three daughters, Christine Lavers of Bristol, Ind., Beanie Marvel of Weston, Mass., and Susan Queen of Shorewood, Minn.; and 16 grandchildren.
      