
        Arthur Lee, the leader of Love, a pioneering 1960's psychedelic rock band, died on Thursday in Memphis. He was 61.
        The cause was complications of leukemia, said Mark Linn, his manager.
        With eccentric songs that joined the jangly guitars of folk-rock with urgent, angry rhythms and yet also leaned toward sophisticated pop with delicate horn and string arrangements, Love was one of the defining groups of the psychedelic era in Los Angeles. Though the band never reached the levels of stardom enjoyed by the Byrds and the Doors -- unlike them, Love rarely toured -- it had a wide and lasting influence.
        Love's 1967 album ''Forever Changes'' was a milestone of pop ambition, with melodic acoustic guitars, elaborate orchestrations and, in songs with titles like ''Alone Again Or'' and ''Maybe the People Would Be the Times or Between Clark and Hilldale,'' a studied inscrutability. Celebrated by critics as one of the most affecting and beguiling albums of the time, it was ranked No. 40 in Rolling Stone's list of the 500 greatest albums, published in 2003.
        A recent benefit concert for Mr. Lee's medical expenses, at the Beacon Theater in Manhattan, indicated the breadth of Love's legacy. Among those performing were Robert Plant of Led Zeppelin, Ian Hunter of Mott the Hoople and Nils Lofgren, along with younger musicians like Ryan Adams, Yo La Tengo and Alec Ounsworth of Clap Your Hands Say Yeah.
        Rangy and invariably slouching, in tiny-frame shades and dandyish, kaleidoscopically colored clothes, Mr. Lee called himself ''the first black hippie,'' and his band pushed boundaries. Love was one of the first major interracial bands in rock, and one of the first to record a song long enough to fill one side of an album, with the 19-minute ''Revelation,'' from its second release, ''Da Capo.''
        Born in Memphis, Mr. Lee moved with his family to Los Angeles when he was 5, and played in many teenage bands before settling on the lineup that would become Love. Another member was Bryan MacLean, a blond guitarist who had been a roadie with the Byrds.
        Love took the Sunset Strip rock scene by storm in 1965 with catchy but shifty songs, as playful as they were dark. Even in their sweetest moments, disorientation and nightmarish paranoia were never far away. ''I feel like I have been through hell/ When you tell me I haven't even started yet,'' Mr. Lee sang in ''Your Mind and We Belong Together.''
        The band lived in a house once owned by Bela Lugosi, and the covers of its first two albums show the members in the garden there.
        Little known outside California, Love had only one Top 40 hit, ''Alone Again Or,'' written by Mr. MacLean, who died in 1998. But in Los Angeles Mr. Lee was a scene maker. He lobbied for his label, Elektra, to sign the Doors, who looked up to Love, then quickly surpassed it.
        By the late 1960's, Love fell apart as its members confronted drug problems, though Mr. Lee continued on his own. In 1970 he recorded an album's worth of material with his old friend Jimi Hendrix, though only one track, ''The Everlasting First,'' was released. He persisted through the 1970's but by the 80's had largely disappeared.
        He toured again in the early 1990's, and seemed on the verge of reviving his career, when in 1996 he was imprisoned for illegal gun possession. He served almost half of a 12-year sentence at Pleasant Valley State Prison in Coalinga, Calif.
        He is survived by his wife, Diane.
        When he was released from prison, in mid-2002, he began to tour almost immediately. He was widely praised by critics for the intensity and focus of his performances, though some noted that a few dark and frightened lyrics of Mr. Lee's youth were now bitterly appropriate, including: ''Served my time, served it well/ You made my soul a cell.''
        Correction:  August 8, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Arthur Lee, the leader of the rock group Love, misidentified the group's only record to break into the Top 40, and its writer. It was ''7 and 7 Is'' by Mr. Lee, and it reached No. 33 in 1966; it was not ''Alone Again Or'' by Bryan MacLean.
      