
        Jawn A. Sandifer, a former New York State judge who as a young lawyer argued a civil rights case before the United States Supreme Court that served as a precedent for the landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 92.
        The death was confirmed by his niece, Sherri Sandifer.
        In 1950, Mr. Sandifer was one of two staff lawyers for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People who successfully argued Henderson v. United States. In its 8-0 decision, with one justice recusing himself, the Supreme Court ruled that railroads that operate across state lines may not bar passengers from eating in dining cars because of their race. ''The denial of dining service to any such passenger subjects him to a prohibited disadvantage,'' the decision said. ''The right to be free from unreasonable discriminations belongs to each particular person.''
        In an interview in 1995, Mr. Sandifer described the prejudice that his client, Elmer W. Henderson, had faced. ''Even if a black person bought in New York a first-class ticket on a train that included dining privileges,'' he said, ''once that train left Washington and went south, he or she could not eat in the dining car. You could walk in, every seat could be empty and there was no room for you. At best, they'd put you behind a curtain.''
        The Henderson case is considered one of several Supreme Court rulings in the late 1940's and early 50's that served as precedents for Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court ruling barring segregation in public schools.
        Throughout his career, both as a lawyer and on the bench, Mr. Sandifer opposed discrimination. In 1986, as a State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan, Mr. Sandifer ruled that a Civil Service test for sanitation workers discriminated against women, allowing them for the first time to be hired by the city to handle garbage.
        Jawn Ardin Sandifer was born on June 6, 1914, in Greensboro, N.C., one of nine children of Charles and Nettie Sandifer. He is survived by his second wife, Elsa Krueger Sandifer of Sarasota; a son, Floyd of Manhattan; and a granddaughter. His first wife, Laura Sandifer, died in 1993.
        Mr. Sandifer graduated from Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte, N.C., in 1935 and earned his law degree at Howard University in 1938. Observing that the faculty at Howard stressed training in civil rights, he said, ''The passion of my times was to overturn the segregation laws in the South and later the de facto segregation in the North.''
        In World War II, Mr. Sandifer served in the criminal investigation unit of the Army Air Corps. After the war, he joined the legal staff of the N.A.A.C.P.
        ''After Brown v. Board of Education was handed down in 1954, we thought the battle was over,'' he said. ''We were wrong.''
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Sandifer moved to New York and began work as the legal redress chairman of the state branch of the N.A.A.C.P. In that post in 1964, he was one of the lawyers who successfully argued a case in which a federal judge ordered the Manhassett school district in Nassau County to end de facto segregation.
        Mr. Sandifer's judicial career began in 1964 when Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed him to the New York Civil Court. Four years later, he was elected to the State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He served on the bench until 1992.
        Asked which of his judicial decisions he was most proud of, Judge Sandifer pointed to the Sanitation Department ruling. In 1986, several women scored higher than most of the men taking the Civil Service test to work on garbage trucks. The sanitation workers' union sued to bar those women from being hired, contending that they were not strong enough to do the job.
        ''That position might have been valid 20 years ago when workers were lifting heavy cans from basements,'' Judge Sandifer recalled. ''But by this time the law required owners to bag garbage and put it out on the sidewalk. You don't have to be Hercules. I threw out the suit.''
        ''If I have a legacy,'' he said, ''it's that I opened minds as well as doors.''
        Correction:  September 11, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Jawn A. Sandifer, a former New York State judge who won an important civil rights case in 1950 before the Supreme Court, misspelled the name of the Nassau County school district involved in a desegregation case he argued successfully in 1964. It is Manhasset, not Manhassett.
      