
        James deAnda, a retired federal judge who as a lawyer in the early 1950's had a leading role in a Supreme Court decision that prohibited courts from keeping Mexican-Americans off juries, died on Thursday at his summer home in Traverse City, Mich. Judge deAnda, who lived in Houston, was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Michael A. Olivas, a law professor at the University of Houston and a friend of the judge.
        On May 3, 1954, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled in Hernandez v. Texas that Hispanic people deserved the same constitutional protections as other minorities.
        For some proponents of civil rights for Hispanics, the case ranks with the ruling two weeks later in Brown v. Board of Education that barred segregation in public schools.
        Mr. deAnda, then a lawyer in a small practice in Houston, wrote most of the briefs for the Hernandez case, in which a Mexican migrant worker appealed his murder conviction by an all-white jury in Jackson County, Tex.
        Mr. deAnda's research showed that despite the fact that Mexican-Americans made up 14 percent of the county's population, not one person with a Spanish surname had been on a jury in 25 years.
        ''The case opened the doors for Latinos to be represented on juries throughout the country,'' said Norma V. Cantu, assistant secretary for civil rights in the Education Department in the Clinton administration.
        Ms. Cantu, now a law professor at the University of Texas, said Texas officials had argued that Latinos should be considered the same as Caucasians in considering representation. The Supreme Court rejected that argument, she said, earning Mr. deAnda ''a place in legal history for expanding the coverage of the 14th Amendment to Latinos.''
        The plaintiff, Pedro Hernandez, had been sentenced to 99 years in his first trial. In November 1954, six months after the Supreme Court decision, he was convicted again, by a jury that had two Hispanics, and sentenced to 20 years.
        In 1957, Mr. deAnda was also the lead counsel in Hernandez v. Driscoll Independent School District, in which a federal court ordered the desegregation of a school district near Corpus Christi.
        Surviving are his wife, Joyce; a son, Lou; two stepsons, Kelly and Patrick Martin; a stepdaughter, Nikki Martin; a sister, Mary deAnda; and a brother, Louis.
        Mr. deAnda, who was born on Aug. 28, 1925, in Houston, attended Texas A&M University. In 1943, he left to join the Marines. He returned to Texas A&M and graduated in 1948. Two years later, he earned a law degree at the University of Texas.
        In the late 60's, after many years defending Hispanics in private practice, Mr. deAnda helped organize the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the Texas Rural Legal Assistance Organization, which provides legal services to migrant workers.
        In 1979, President Jimmy Carter appointed him a federal judge in the Southern District of Texas. He retired in 1992, after serving his last four years as chief judge. He retired from Solar & Associates, a law firm in Houston, in 2002.
      