
        Rocco A. Petrone, who directed the countdown for launching the first mission to land astronauts on the Moon and later headed the entire Apollo program, died Aug. 24 at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 80.
        His death was confirmed by the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., where he was director in the early 1970's. No cause was given, though former colleagues said he had had a heart ailment and diabetes.
        A tall, sturdy engineer, Mr. Petrone was a driving force in preparing the launching complex at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida as the moonport from which six crews of American astronauts embarked on successful lunar-landing flights.
        The first of those flights, Apollo 11, was scheduled against a backdrop of a cold-war race with the Soviet Union and the deadline that President John F. Kennedy had set in 1961 to land men on the Moon before the decade was out. Time was running short.
        ''Concurrency is the real challenge of this program,'' Mr. Petrone said not long before the historic mission, meaning getting everything ready at the same time.
        ''Rocco did a great job down here on Apollo,'' Thomas J. O'Malley, a retired Apollo contractor manager who still lives near the Kennedy center, said the other day. ''He was one of 10 or 12 people who really got things done.''
        As director of launch operations, Mr. Petrone presided at the control console in Firing Room 1 the morning of July 16, 1969. Seated next to him was Wernher von Braun, developer of the mammoth Saturn 5 rocket, which was about to send Apollo 11 on its way. The countdown went without a hitch.
        Four days later, on July 20, Neil A. Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed and walked on the Sea of Tranquillity, while Michael Collins waited for them in the main spacecraft orbiting high overhead.
        The next month, Mr. Petrone was promoted to Apollo program director. He guided the program through the final lunar missions, including the recovery from the failed Apollo 13 attempt, and left the job to become director of the Marshall center in 1973-74.
        Mr. Petrone was the first American-born leader of the space center, which grew from the nucleus of German rocket scientists captured at the end of World War II. He oversaw Marshall's management of Skylab, the country's first space station.
        Rocco Anthony Petrone was born on March 31, 1926, in Amsterdam, N. Y., and graduated in 1946 from West Point, where he played football on the championship team led by Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis. He earned a master's degree in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1951.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Ruth Holley Petrone; four children, Michael Petrone of Palos Verdes Estates, Teresa Petrone of Charlotte, N.C., and Nancy Petrone and Kathryn Posey of Atlanta; a brother; and a half-brother.
        While on active duty in the Army, Mr. Petrone worked at the Redstone Arsenal, a precursor to NASA's Marshall center, with engineers developing the nation's first ballistic missile. He was in the blockhouse at Cape Canaveral, Fla., when the missile, called the Redstone, was first launched in 1953. He joined the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1960 and became director of launch operations at the Kennedy center in 1966.
        Mr. Petrone left NASA in 1975 and held a number of jobs in private industry. He became an executive of Rockwell International, the aerospace contractor that built the space shuttles.
        As Rockwell's director of shuttle operations, he testified before the presidential commission investigating the Challenger disaster of Jan. 28, 1986. He said he had instructed subordinates to tell NASA that Rockwell recommended against launching in the cold weather. But other Rockwell employees gave contradictory testimony, leading to questions about how forcefully the contractor had tried to warn NASA against launching that day.
        In any event, Mr. Petrone had been primarily concerned that the cold weather could damage the shuttle's thermal protection tiles. The investigators determined that the cold weather had instead led to a failure of the O-rings that seal the solid rocket boosters, thereby causing the Challenger to explode shortly after liftoff.
        But it is Apollo for which Mr. Petrone is best remembered.
        After the Apollo 11 liftoff for the Moon in 1969, he was asked to describe the feeling in the control room as the clock counted down to zero.
        ''I'd have to say that you could feel the tension,'' he said. ''The people knew this was the big one. There was a certain amount of, let's say, static electricity in the air.''
      