
        Charles Aug, a retired real estate executive who helped create a specialty in the commercial brokerage business -- marketing storefront space -- died in Boston on Sept. 1. Mr. Aug, a resident of South Beach, Fla., and Manhattan, was 68.
        The cause was heart complications of amyloidosis, a rare bone marrow disease, his son, James, said.
        Until he retired last year, Mr. Aug was the chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates, a store-leasing company. He helped start Garrick-Aug in 1974 during a slump in the Manhattan office market, in which he had worked for years. Mr. Aug's partner, Michael Hirschfeld, who previously was chairman of Garrick Associates, left the company in 1976. It was sold last year to Union Traders, an investment company.
        ''Aug created retail-store leasing as a distinct entity,'' said Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of Newmark Knight Frank, a commercial real estate brokerage in Manhattan. ''Nobody was doing it before him.''
        Faith Hope Consolo, the chairwoman of retail leasing and sales for Prudential Douglas Elliman, also said that Mr. Aug had created ''a unique niche'' for storefront leasing, as opposed to marketing a whole building.
        Ground-floor leasing must factor in the type of store and the price range of its merchandise. ''But it also has very much to do with the expectations of the landlord,'' said Ms. Consolo, who worked at Garrick-Aug for 20 years. ''If a landlord has a Class A office building or a white-glove residential building, he wants a brand apparel store or a bank, not a deli, something that adds to the aesthetic and image of the building.''
        ''Until Charlie Aug, retail was the stepsister of commercial,'' Ms. Consolo said. ''And Garrick-Aug was a place where many retail brokers trained before moving on to other companies.''
        Charles Monroe Aug was born on Jan. 5, 1938, the son of Nat and Irene Aug of Rockville Centre, N.Y. He graduated from the University of Miami in 1960. Besides his son, of Manhattan, Mr. Aug is survived by a sister, Louise Mitchell of Manhattan, and two grandchildren. His marriage to Ellen Levine ended in divorce.
        Sales came naturally to Mr. Aug, his son said. ''He made a lot of money in college selling blazers and country club crests around Miami,'' James Aug said. ''His dream was always $100 million; he didn't get it, but he had fun trying.''
        Correction:  September 14, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Charles Aug, a pioneer broker of retail real estate, referred incorrectly to one of his places of residence. South Beach is a section of the city of Miami Beach, not an incorporated area in Florida.
      