
        Tyron Garner, one of two plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case in 2003 that overruled a Texas sodomy law in the broadest possible terms, effectively making homosexual relations a basic civil right, died Monday in Houston. He was 39.
        The cause was complications of meningitis, said his brother Darrell.
        Mr. Garner and John G. Lawrence, were arrested between 10:30 and 11 p.m. on Sept. 17, 1998, and charged with violating the Texas Homosexual Conduct Law by a sheriff's deputy who said he had witnessed them in the act.
        The men pleaded not guilty at their arraignment but later changed the pleas to no contest at the urging of lawyers eager to challenge the constitutionality of the law, not the factual basis of the arrests.
        The men were represented throughout the case by the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, which defends gay men and lesbians.
        Their convictions were overturned by a three-judge panel of a state appeals court and then upheld, 7 to 2, by the full court. After the state's highest court rejected the case, the men appealed to the Supreme Court.
        On June 26, 2003, the court overruled the sodomy law, which it had upheld in 1986. In the opinion he wrote for the 6-to-3 majority, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the earlier interpretation ''demeans the lives of homosexual persons.''
        Justice Kennedy said that gay men and lesbians were ''entitled to respect for their private lives'' and that the state could not ''control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime.''
        At that time, Suzanne Goldberg, a law professor at Rutgers, said in an interview with The New York Times that the case, Lawrence v. Texas, ''removes the reflexive assumption of gay people's inferiority.''
        Tyron Garner, who actually preferred the spelling Tyrone, his brother said, was born on July 10, 1967, and did not reveal much about his early life. He was unemployed at the time of his arrest and a year later sold barbecue at a street stand in Houston. His criminal record included two convictions for assault in 1995 and 2000, The Dallas Morning News reported in 2003.
        The men's lawyers consistently shielded them from scrutiny, denying requests for interviews. Their lawyer in Houston, Mitchell Kitrane, said in an interview with Dale Carpenter in The Michigan Law Review that they were ''on the quiet side, passive type individuals.''
        Neither had prior involvement with gay-rights groups.
        They were introduced to each other by Robert R. Eubanks, with whom Mr. Garner was romantically involved when he was arrested. Mr. Carpenter's interviews showed that Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were occasional sexual partners, not in a committed relationship.
        On the day of the arrests, the three men drank margaritas and ate dinner at a Mexican restaurant. They had spent the afternoon moving Mr. Lawrence's new furniture into his apartment and planned to move the old furniture to Mr. Eubanks's place the next morning.
        Shortly before 10:30, an unidentified man called the Harris County Sheriff's Department and told the dispatcher that ''a black male was going crazy in the apartment and he was armed with a gun.''
        The caller turned out to be Mr. Eubanks, who told deputies he was jealous of Mr. Garner, with whom he argued that evening and had fought physically in the past.
        Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were then alone together in the apartment, fueling Mr. Eubanks's rage.
        Mr. Eubanks stood at the door when the police arrived and directed them to go inside, where, he said, a man was threatening neighbors with a gun. No gun was found, but the police entered with trepidation. Inside, a still-mysterious man on a telephone directed them to a bedroom in the back.
        They shouted out several times and entered the bedroom. They said Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were engaged in sex. One deputy said they continued obliviously for as long as a minute. Another deputy said they stopped immediately.
        Why the deputies enforced the sodomy law, a rarity, is unclear, wrote Mr. Carpenter, who said he doubted that the officers actually saw any sex. He dismissed widespread speculation that the event was staged as a vehicle to test the law, saying that among other reasons, the men were too inarticulate for appearances in the news media.
        Mr. Carpenter, a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, does theorize that possibly homophobic deputies fabricated and lied about the evidence, confident that their version, and not the defendants', would be believed.
        Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Garner paid fines of $125 for violating the sodomy law, a Class C misdemeanor, plus $141.25 in court costs. Mr. Eubanks was convicted of making a false report and spent two weeks in jail. He was beaten to death in 2000 in a case that was never solved.
        In addition to his brother Darrell, of Houston, Mr. Garner is survived by seven brothers and two sisters.
        Mr. Garner took quiet pride in his place in history.
        ''I don't really want to be a hero,'' he said in an interview with The Houston Chronicle in 2004. ''But I want to tell other gay people, 'Be who you are, and don't be afraid.' ''
      