
        Hrishikesh Mukherjee, who produced and directed memorable and successful Hindi films in a career of more than five decades, died on Aug. 27 in Mumbai. He was 83.
        The cause was complications of kidney failure, his family said.
        Known to all of India as Hrishida, he made stars out of actors, among them Amitabh Bachchan, who shot into eminence with ''Anand'' (1970), the first and most acclaimed of his series of hit family dramas, focused affectionately on the Indian middle class.
        He was born in Calcutta on Sept. 30, 1922, and brought up in a middle-class family, expecting to become a scientist and teacher, which he was for a time after graduating with a degree in chemistry from Calcutta University.
        Seeking to become a photographer, he learned editing and other aspects of filmmaking and then was asked by the distinguished director Bimal Roy to edit his Bengali film ''Tapish.'' It became a hit.
        He reluctantly followed Roy to Mumbai in 1951 and assisted him in classics like ''Do Bigha Zameen'' and ''Devdas.''
        It was Mr. Mukherjee's second film, ''Anari'' (1959), starring Raj Kapoor, Motilal, Lalita Pawar and Nutan Behl, that was his first real commercial and critical success.
        The golden phase of Mr. Mukherjee's career came in the 1970's, when he made some of his best-loved movies, beginning with ''Anand,'' which portrays a cancer patient who retains his joie de vivre in the face of impending death and a doctor who overcomes cynicism after meeting him.
        A string of other hits followed. In the 80's, however, his brand of filmmaking slowly died out in the face of the larger-than-life productions and cotton-candy romances that dominated Bollywood. He tried a comeback with ''Jhooth Bole Kauwa Kaate'' (1998), but it was a critical and commercial failure.
        He dabbled in television and also worked as a scriptwriter and editor. He was chairman of the Central Board of Film Certification and the National Film Development Corporation and received major honors for his contributions to Indian cinema.
        He is survived by three daughters and a son. His granddaughters, Tapur Chatterjee and Tupur Chatterjee, are well-known models.
      