
        Ira F. Brilliant, a real estate developer whose passion for Beethoven led him to found one of the world's major centers for the study of his work -- which contains first editions, musical instruments and a storied lock of the composer's hair -- died last Sunday in San Jose, Calif. He was 84 and had made his home in San Jose, where the center is located, since last year.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Housed at San Jose State University, the Ira F. Brilliant Center for Beethoven Studies is the only research collection in North America devoted exclusively to Beethoven. The center, which opened its doors in 1985, includes books and manuscripts, rare early editions of Beethoven's works and, on long-term loan, two fragments of his skull.
        Its most famous artifact is undoubtedly the lock of Beethoven's wild hair, which Mr. Brilliant and three colleagues acquired in 1994. In 2000 the announcement, based on analysis of the hair, that Beethoven might have had lead poisoning attracted international attention.
        The lock and its history were the subject of a nonfiction book, ''Beethoven's Hair'' (Broadway Books, 2000), by Russell Martin. Mr. Brilliant was also featured in a documentary film of the same title, shown last year on Canadian and British television.
        Visiting hours for the hair are limited to July and December. The rest of the center's collection is open to the public year round.
        Trained as a chemist, Mr. Brilliant became a successful developer of commercial real estate in Arizona, where he lived for many years. He began collecting Beethoven memorabilia in the mid-1970's and over the next decade amassed what was then the country's finest private collection of Beethoven first editions.
        Apart from noodling around a bit on the clarinet, Mr. Brilliant was not a musician. But to the end of his life he retained an abiding love of Beethoven (1770-1827), whose work he first heard on 78 r.p.m. records while a teenager in Brooklyn.
        ''I developed a very strong attachment to the man,'' Mr. Brilliant told The Sacramento Bee in 2003. ''The more I studied, the more intrigued I got with him. I got to a point where I eventually wanted to have something Beethoven touched. It satisfied something inside of me.''
        Ira Francis Brilliant was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 8, 1922. In 1943 he earned a bachelor's degree in textile chemistry from the Lowell Textile Institute, a forerunner of the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. In World War II, Mr. Brilliant served in the Army in Europe, where he did research on chemicals that could be used to treat soldiers' uniforms to protect them from gas attacks.
        In 1947 Mr. Brilliant married Irma Maizels; their first date, earlier that year, had been at a Beethoven concert. She survives him, as do a son, Robert, of San Mateo, Calif.; a brother, Stanley, of Manhattan; and one grandchild.
        The lock of Beethoven's hair, now known as the Guevara Lock, came up for auction at Sotheby's in London in 1994. It had been snipped from Beethoven's head the day after his death by Ferdinand Hiller, a German music student who became a well-known conductor.
        Three to six inches of brown hair mixed with silver and white, the lock comprised 582 discrete strands. With two others, Mr. Brilliant and a friend, Alfredo Guevara, an Arizona urologist, bought it for about $7,300 -- roughly $12.54 a strand. Dr. Guevara, the principal investor, kept 160 hairs, with the remaining 422 going to Mr. Brilliant's center in San Jose.
        Laboratory tests of the hair revealed a concentration of lead 100 times that found in the modern general population. (In Beethoven's day, lead was ubiquitous in plumbing and household china.) Some scholars argued that lead poisoning was responsible for the composer's chronic ailments -- among them abdominal pains and emotional volatility -- and might have hastened his death, at 56. Most researchers concur, however, that lead was not implicated in Beethoven's deafness.
        The Brilliant Center also includes two early-19th-century fortepianos and a page from Beethoven's household accounts, with entries for ''chicken feed,'' ''rolls, stale'' and four bottles of wine.
        In addition, it houses the item with which Mr. Brilliant began his collection in 1975: a signed letter in Beethoven's hand.
        ''It's one of the most beautiful signatures I've ever seen,'' Mr. Brilliant said in the interview with The Sacramento Bee. ''The signature sparkled up at me. I washed my fingers and then I touched the letter in the corner and I said to myself, 'I have accomplished what I wanted to do.' ''
      