
        Arthur Bloom, who helped define the television newsmagazine concept as the original director of the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' died on Saturday at his home in Grandview-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 63.
        The cause was lung cancer, according to a spokesman for CBS News.
        Mr. Bloom joined ''60 Minutes'' before its first broadcast in 1968 and remained with the program until last year. As director, he oversaw the taping of the in-studio parts of the broadcast and contributed to the development of the program's signature visual elements, including the magazine backdrop used on the set as well as the famous ticking stopwatch.
        The program's original stopwatch was Mr. Bloom's. It first appeared at the beginning of the third broadcast, on Oct. 22, 1968, and was soon used between each segment to mark the program's progress through the hour.
        ''Artie had an eye for what worked visually and what didn't -- he was invaluable to me,'' Don Hewitt, the creator of ''60 Minutes,'' said in a statement. ''I depended on him to make the broadcast as visually appealing as it turned out to be. He was at my side every step of the way.''
        Arthur Joseph Bloom was born on April 19, 1942, in Manhattan. After a childhood spent in Miami Beach, he returned to New York in 1960 to work in the mailroom at CBS. He received his first directorial assignment three years later. He studied at New York University at night, receiving a degree in economics.
        Mr. Bloom also directed CBS News' coverage of the national political conventions between 1974 and 1988, orchestrating the images provided by the network's cameras to convey the excitement, real and simulated, of the events.
        He also directed coverage of the Ford-Carter and Reagan-Mondale presidential debates, all Election Night coverage from 1974 to 1990, special news events and documentaries. The network said that he also helped train Dan Rather in 1981 to succeed Walter Cronkite as the anchor of CBS News.
        In 1995, Mr. Bloom became the first recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award in News Direction from the Directors Guild of America. He had previously received honors from the guild for his work on the 1976 conventions and ''60 Minutes.''
        He is survived by his wife, Marla; a son, Scott, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Jill Bloom Butterman of Grandview on Hudson; his brother, Richard, of Sarasota; and four grandchildren.
      