
        Syd Thrift, the longtime major league executive and scout who revitalized the Pittsburgh Pirates franchise in the 1980's and championed innovative baseball techniques, died Monday in Milford, Del. He was 77.
        Thrift's wife, Dolly, said he died hours after undergoing knee-replacement surgery and that autopsy results were expected next week.
        Thrift spent nearly a half-century in professional baseball, making his debut as a pitcher in the Yankees' minor league system in 1949. He never played in the majors but became known as a shrewd judge of talent.
        Sydnor Thrift Jr., a Virginia native and a graduate of Randolph-Macon College, complemented devotion to what he viewed as scientific techniques with countless stories of a baseball lifer and a folksy manner. Last Sunday, in his syndicated radio show, ''Talkin' Baseball,'' he referred to a loquacious manager -- as quoted by The Baltimore Sun -- as ''a guy who could talk a hound dog off a meat truck.''
        In the early 1970's, Thrift directed the Kansas City Royals' newly formed baseball academy in Florida, which produced 14 major league players, including Frank White, the Royals' outstanding second baseman.
        ''The idea was to apply the modern methods of analysis and teaching, which football was using so well,'' Thrift once told The New York Times. ''They used to say you can't make a man run faster or throw harder, but we showed that you could with the right expert instruction and the right kind of practice.''
        In the mid-1970's, as an executive with the Oakland Athletics, Thrift drafted the future star outfielder Rickey Henderson in the fourth round.
        Thrift was named the Pirates' general manager after the 1985 season, when they had the worst record in the majors. He chose Jim Leyland, then an obscure coach with the Chicago White Sox, as manager and began reshaping the team, discarding high-priced veterans and trading for Bobby Bonilla, Andy Van Slyke and Mike LaValliere along with pitchers Doug Drabek and Jim Gott.
        The 1988 Pirates finished second in the National League East with an 85-75 record and set a franchise attendance record, 1.8 million. But Thrift clashed with the team's ownership and was fired after that season. Under Leyland, the Pirates won N.L. East titles from 1990 to 1992.
        ''He wasn't just a sharp baseball man,'' Leyland told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette in 2004. ''He had nerve. He wasn't afraid to do or try anything.''
        As for Thrift hiring him, Leyland said, ''He was the one guy willing to take a shot on a nobody.''
        Thrift was hired by George Steinbrenner in March 1989 as the Yankees' senior vice president for baseball operations, getting a four-year contract. But he resigned in late August. Steinbrenner was said to have been unhappy with Thrift's refusal to publicly support him when he fired Dallas Green as manager, replacing him with Bucky Dent.
        A year later, Thrift collaborated with Barry Shapiro on ''The Game According to Syd,'' a book outlining his instructional techniques. He advocated advanced video teaching tools and the use of enhanced measurements in analyzing performance, including the timing of a pitcher's motion to aid runners in taking their leads. In 1994, The Sporting News named Thrift as one of the five best teachers in baseball.
        After leaving the Yankees, Thrift was an executive with the Chicago Cubs and Baltimore Orioles, and he was a consultant for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays before retiring in 2004.
        In addition to his wife, Thrift, who lived in Kilmarnock, Va., is survived by his sons Jim and Mark, his sisters Lucy Chenery and Louise Owens, and five grandchildren.
      