
        Christopher Lloyd, whose gardens at his country house, Great Dixter, and voluminous writings inspired generations of gardeners around the world, died Friday in Hastings, England, near the house, where he was born and lived for 84 years.
        His close friend and head gardener, Fergus Garrett, announced the death, which came a week after Mr. Lloyd had had a stroke and entered a hospital.
        Mr. Lloyd was the last of a breed of manor house garden writers, including Vita Sackville-West and Rosemary Verey. His father, Nathaniel, bought Great Dixter in 1910, and Sir Edwin Lutyens, who also laid out the garden with Mr. Lloyd's parents, designed additions to the half-timber house, which dates to 1460.
        Mr. Lloyd dispensed personal instructive wisdom with wit and charm for 42 years in a weekly feature in Country Life magazine, retiring in October. He also wrote 20 books, columns in The Guardian and articles in many other newspapers and magazines, and gave frequent lectures.
        Tom Cooper, former editor of Horticulture magazine, to which Mr. Lloyd was a contributor, said in an e-mail message on Saturday, ''Christo was the last of the generation of great gardeners who grew up and were trained in an era of traditional practices.''
        Mr. Lloyd studied horticulture at Wye College and later taught there. Despite his traditional background, he was an original artist whose gardens defied classification. He was known for his willingness and eagerness to experiment, saying gardeners should live on the frontier of their experience.
        Sometimes his experiments upset critics, as when he ripped out his mother's rose garden, with some specimens more than 70 years old, and turned it over to tropical plants. (This adventure led to his last book, ''The Exotic Garden,'' to be published this year by BBC Press.)
        ''I enjoy writing in our wonderfully expressive, albeit ambiguous, English language,'' Mr. Lloyd wrote in Country Life. ''I am passionate about my subject matter, but not (heaven forefend) solemn. I find it impossible to take myself or anyone else too seriously.
        ''I can never see the point of modesty, which makes everything uniformly low-keyed and drab. If you're bad at a thing -- mending the electric light or, more seriously, in my case, any sort of draftsmanship -- admit it like a man, but if you've done something rather well, like producing a blaze of floral color in May, why pretend otherwise?''
        The glory of Great Dixter and its maker was recognized officially in 1979, when the Royal Horticultural Society gave Mr. Lloyd its highest award, the Victoria Medal of Honor. In 1998 he was awarded the Order of the British Empire for his service to horticulture.
        The gardens have been open to the public for 50 years, with 44,000 people visiting in 2005, and they have continued to evolve and grow in popularity. Many horticulturalists have said the garden was at its best in the last decade.
        One of the oldest plants in the garden was grown from a cutting his mother took from a disheveled part of another open garden. On the subject of such indiscretions, Mr. Lloyd wrote: ''If you must pinch cuttings from my garden, please take them neatly and not where it shows and don't let me catch you, particularly if the plant is on sale in my nursery. That's plain mean.''
        There had been speculation for some time about what would become of the gardens after Mr. Lloyd's death. He loathed the idea that they might be frozen in time. ''I don't want the place to become a museum,'' he wrote on Jan. 14 in The Saturday Telegraph. ''The garden is sure to change. It has changed a lot in my time.''
        He continued to describe his hope and plan: ''We have formed a trust -- The Great Dixter Charitable Trust -- which will take over. Dixter will change but it will go on. As long as he is at the helm,'' a reference to Mr. Garrett, the gardener, ''I have no fears for Dixter.''
        Fund-raising efforts have already begun, with information available at www.greatdixter.co.uk.
        Mr. Lloyd leaves no immediate survivors, but was close to a niece, Olivia Eller, who lives in Strasbourg, France; to his great-nephews and nieces, and to Mr. Garrett, his wife, Amanda Furgeson, and their daughter, Ayse.
        He forbade any memorial service but instead asked for a party in honor of what would have been his 85th birthday, on March 2. His friends are planning a private celebration.
        ''Gardening, like living, should be fun,'' he wrote. ''It can't be much of the time, but we can do our best to make it so. It is that intangible something which immediately proclaims that behind the scenes there is an original whose guiding hand has created something ephemeral, yes, but with the magic of a sunset.''
      