
        Armin Jordan, the Swiss conductor, died on Wednesday in Zurich. He was 74.
        He died in his sleep in a hospital, according to a statement by the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande.
        Mr. Jordan had collapsed last Friday while conducting Prokofiev's opera ''The Love for Three Oranges'' at the opera house in Basel.
        Mr. Jordan was a rare breed: an international conductor who spent the majority of his career conducting in his native Switzerland and in France. His best-known association was with the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande, based in Geneva, where he was music director for 12 years, from 1985 to 1997. He did not make his North American debut until 1985, when he led several performances of Wagner's ''Walküre'' in Seattle; in 1991 and 1994, he appeared at the Mostly Mozart festival in New York.
        French music, and Mozart, were specialties -- he deliberately followed in the footsteps of another major Swiss conductor of a previous generation, Ernst Ansermet -- but he was perhaps better known in the United States for the operas of Wagner, which he conducted from Seattle to Paris.
        Mr. Jordan was a large man, with a slab of a face and a full mouth, often twisted in a sardonic smile, and his powerful physical presence belied the careful near-understatement of his conducting. Some listeners read this quality as the lack of a distinct profile, but many admired it for its elegance and subtlety.
        ''Mr. Jordan conducted a spacious and tellingly shaped performance,'' Anthony Tommasini wrote in The New York Times in 1998 of the ''Tristan and Isolde'' he led in Seattle. In The Boston Globe, Richard Dyer wrote of the same performance that Mr. Jordan's Wagner ''is not for those who like their Wagner loud and weighty with portent,'' and added that he ''secured an unusual degree of flexibility and conversational intimacy, all subsumed in a long line that never faltered.''
        The conductor's distinctive looks did help win him an on-screen film role: that of Amfortas in Hans-Jürgen Syberberg's memorable 1982 movie version of Wagner's ''Parsifal,'' which Mr. Jordan also conducted. (The role was sung, however, by Wolfgang Schöne.)
        Armin Jordan was born on April 9, 1932, in Lucerne, Switzerland, and grew up in Fribourg. He initially studied literature, law and theology before devoting himself to music full time; his first professional engagement came in 1957, when he was hired as assistant conductor at the theater in Biel. Subsequently, he was principal conductor of the Zurich Opera (1963-68), the St. Gallen opera (1968-71) and the theater of Basel (1971-89); he also led the Lausanne Chamber Orchestra from 1973 to 1985. Internationally, he appeared with the Vienna State Opera, at the festival of Aix-en-Provence, at the Paris Opéra and in many other capitals.
        Pneumonia curtailed his North American career. Seattle engaged Mr. Jordan for complete ''Ring'' cycles in 2000 and 2001, but after falling ill he had to withdraw after a few performances in 2000, and canceled 2001 altogether. For the same reason, he canceled his scheduled Metropolitan Opera debut in February 2001; he was to have conducted Mozart's ''Così Fan Tutte.''
        The Met debut in the family was reserved for his son, Philippe Jordan, himself a conductor with a growing international career, who first appeared there in 2002 and led ''Carmen'' last season; he was in the middle of a run of ''La Bohème'' at the Vienna State Opera when his father died. Mr. Jordan is also survived by his wife, Kate, and a daughter, Pascale.
      