
        Fred N. Spiess, an oceanographer and marine explorer who helped create an unusual floating laboratory that has yielded a bounty of information about underwater acoustics and sea currents, died on Sept. 8 in San Diego. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In the early 1960's, Dr. Spiess (pronounced SPEES) and his colleagues at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in the La Jolla section developed the floating instrument platform, a manned research vessel that became known as FLIP.
        The 355-foot vessel is towed out to sea, where one end is submerged, upending the ship like a buoy. While most of the hull remains underwater, the crew and instruments are housed in a 55-foot-long tip that stands above the ocean's surface.
        Scientists have used the vessel to study the acoustics of whales and other marine mammals, heat exchange between the ocean and the atmosphere, and the effects of seismic waves on water. Dr. Spiess designed the vessel with two collaborators, Fred Fisher and Phillip Rudnick.
        The vessel remains in use as ''a wonderfully successful and quiet platform, which was built for virtually nothing and has enriched our knowledge of the oceans for four decades,'' said Walter Munk, an emeritus professor of geophysics at Scripps, which is affiliated with the University of California, San Diego.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Spiess and others adapted the technology to try even larger floating platforms. They experimented with models to test the idea of placing weather stations and nuclear power plants in the sea. In the case of power plants, water from the ocean's depths would potentially be used to cool a reactor. Dr. Munk said large-platform concepts for mobile reactors and naval bases were ''feasible.''
        In other research, Dr. Spiess helped explore conditions on and beneath the deep ocean floor. In the 1980's, scientists from Scripps lowered a robotic device off the eastern coast of Florida to collect water samples and probe holes drilled into the bottom on a previous expedition.
        Later, off the Pacific Coast, he and others explored the Juan de Fuca Ridge, more than a mile below the ocean's surface. Dr. Spiess, who began his career as a naval submarine officer, was interested in the geological formation of the seafloor, the effects of plate tectonics, and the phenomenon of eruptions of nodules of metals and volcanic material from the earth's interior.
        Fred Noel Spiess was born in Oakland, Calif. He received an undergraduate degree from the University of California, Berkeley, and a master's degree from Harvard. In 1951, he earned his doctorate in physics from Berkeley.
        After briefly working as a nuclear engineer, Dr. Spiess joined the Marine Physical Laboratory at Scripps in 1952. He was director of the laboratory from 1958 to 1980 and director of the Scripps Institution from 1964 to 1965. He was named a distinguished professor emeritus of oceanography in 1990.
        Dr. Spiess's wife of 60 years, Sarah Whitton, died in 2002. The couple lived in La Jolla.
        Dr. Spiess is survived by a son, John, of Seattle; four daughters, Katherine Dallaire of Chester, N.H., Mary Elizabeth DeJong of San Francisco, Helen Shamble of Santa Clara, Calif., and Peggy DeLigio Spiess of Eugene, Ore.; eight grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      