
        Thomas Stewart, an American baritone who was renowned for his portrayals of Wotan, Amfortas and other central Wagnerian roles and who was heard frequently at Bayreuth and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 78.
        The soprano Evelyn Lear, Mr. Stewart's wife and frequent recital partner in a long shared career, said Mr. Stewart had a heart attack while playing golf near their home in Rockville. In addition to Ms. Lear, Mr. Stewart is survived by a son, Jan Stewart, of Rockville, and a daughter, Bonni Stewart, of Toronto.
        Mr. Stewart was a commanding singer, muscular and with a moustache and beard that seemed suited to the often imperious roles he sang. Yet his commanding quality came less from the size or mettle of his voice, which was surprisingly lyrical for a Wagner baritone, but from his imaginative approach to his roles. He gave his characters a measure of warmth and expressivity that often made them seem complex and surprising. The conductor Herbert von Karajan singled out Mr. Stewart as his favorite Wotan, the amoral god in Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle.
        Mr. Stewart sang a broad repertory that included roles as diverse as Aeneas in Purcell's ''Dido and Aeneas,'' Jochaanan in Strauss's ''Salome,'' and the title role in ''Don Giovanni.'' At the Metropolitan Opera, where he made his debut as Ford in Verdi's ''Falstaff'' on March 9, 1966, he sang 192 performances. Not counting the Speaker in Mozart's ''Zauberflöte,'' which he performed toward the end of his Met career (and in which he made his last appearance there on Nov. 20, 1993), his most frequent Met role was in the quadruple lead (Lindorf, Coppélius, Dappertutto and Dr. Miracle) in Offenbach's ''Contes d'Hoffmann.''
        Mr. Stewart was born in San Saba, Tex., on Aug. 29, 1928, and described his early life as poor and unhappy. ''I was an unattractive child -- fat, and full of complexes,'' he told The New York Times in 1972. ''I had no girl friends. I was not witty or funny. I was shy. Well, when I was 10, I began to sing. I began to sing because it made people notice me. Music, for which I had no particular love, gave me an identity.''
        Gradually, Mr. Stewart's interest in music grew, and he gave up an early dream of becoming an engineer and moved to New York City to study at the Juilliard School. In 1954, he made his operatic debut as La Roche in a Juilliard production (and the American premiere) of Strauss's ''Capriccio.'' The same year he met Ms. Lear, a divorcée with two young children who was also a Juilliard voice student. They married in 1955.
        Their early career was rocky. Although Mr. Stewart found occasional roles with the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the New York City Opera, both he and Ms. Lear spent much of their time singing church jobs and doing choral and commercial work, and by 1956, Mr. Stewart was ready to give up. He was about to take a job with I.B.M. when he and Ms. Lear were notified that they had won Fulbright scholarships for study in Germany. They had been in Berlin only a few weeks when Mr. Stewart landed a place on the roster of the Berlin Städtische Oper, where he made his debut as Minister in Beethoven's ''Fidelio,'' in 1957. In 1960, he made his debut at Covent Garden, in London, as Escamillo in Bizet's ''Carmen.''
        Mr. Stewart also sang at Bayreuth in 1960, and remained a mainstay of the prestigious Wagner festival through the mid-1970's. As his reputation in Europe grew, the Met gradually began paying attention. But he wanted to return to New York on his own terms: when the Met offered him a $300-a-week contract, he turned it down, preferring to wait for a more generous offer. One came quickly, and in 1966 he made his Met debut in ''Falstaff.''
        By the time he made his first New York appearance as a recitalist, in 1972, Mr. Stewart's stature had grown, and his voice had as well. Reviewing the Alice Tully Hall program in The New York Times, Peter G. Davis observed: ''Mr. Stewart's baritone has blossomed lately into a round, mellow instrument.''
        He also performed in the American premiere of Hindemith's ''Cardillac'' at the Santa Fe Opera and sang several roles at the San Francisco Opera, where he had made his debut in 1962. His most important opera recordings include a ''Ring'' cycle with Karajan, a ''Fliegende Holländer'' conducted by Karl Bohm (both on Deutsche Grammophon) and a ''Meistersinger Von Nürnberg,'' led by Raphael Kubelik (Arts Music). His recital discs include ''Songs of Gambling and the Sea,'' with music by Samuel Barber and John Jacob Niles (VAI) and ''A Portrait'' (VAI), a wide-ranging compilation of song and opera excerpts.
        Mr. Stewart shared the stage frequently with Ms. Lear, both in opera and in recitals, and they made several recordings together. After they retired, they continued to give master classes and established the Evelyn Lear and Thomas Stewart Emerging Singers Program, in a partnership with the Wagner Society of Washington.
      