
        Alfred Mann, a musicologist and teacher, died on Thursday in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 89 and lived in Fort Wayne.
        His death was announced by his son Adrian.
        Mr. Mann is perhaps best remembered for his translations of and commentary on the works of the Austrian composer and musical theorist J. J. Fux (1660-1741), whose pedagogic writings, along with those of C. P. E. Bach, opened windows into the world of 18th-century performance practice and influenced the development of the present early-music movement.
        Mr. Mann held professorships at Rutgers University and the Eastman School of Music in Rochester. He was also editor of American Choral Review. His special academic interest was how past eras thought about music theory and how, for example, fugue was taught in the 18th century. As a teacher he championed Handel's music, much of it relatively unknown in the mid-20th century.
        As a professional performer, Mr. Mann played the recorder and the double bass. Recordings on which he appeared as a wind player include the first six of Handel's ''Chandos Anthems'' on the Vanguard label. He was also a choral conductor and directed the Cantata Singers in New York and the Bach Choir of Bethlehem, in Pennsylvania. As an editor, Mr. Mann prepared and assembed various writings for collected editions of Fux, Handel, Mozart and Schubert.
        Born in Hamburg, Germany, in 1917, Alfred Mann was the son of the noted keyboardist and writer Edith Weiss-Mann. He studied at the Milan Conservatory in Italy and at the Berlin Hochschule für Musik, where Kurt Thomas and Max Seiffert were among his teachers. After teaching briefly at both those schools in 1937 and 1938, he came to the United States with his mother as a refugee from the Nazis. He continued his education at the Curtis Institute and Columbia University.
        Mr. Mann's wife, Carolyn Owens Mann, died in 1995. He moved to Fort Wayne to be near his son Adrian, principal double-bass and manager of the Fort Wayne Philharmonic. His survivors also include two other sons, John and Tim; a sister, Louise Sierau; and six grandchildren.
      