
        Dr. Harris Busch, a biochemist and cancer researcher at Baylor College of Medicine who helped unravel and describe aspects of the chemical structure of cancer cells, died on Sept. 22 in Houston. He was 83.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Busch was interested in how genes work within healthy and cancerous cells, and especially in the nucleolus of the cell, an internal structure that plays an important role in assembling proteins.
        At Baylor, where he was chairman of the pharmacology department from 1960 to 1998, he and others worked to explain the structure and sequencing of certain ribonucleic acids, known as mRNA's, that act in the process by which genes direct the production of proteins. Dr. Busch and his colleagues also studied histones, which are proteins that affect gene regulation, and helped describe their function in making chromatin, the substance that contains most of a cell's DNA .
        Susan M. Berget, a biochemist and interim chairman of Baylor's pharmacology department, cited Dr. Busch's ''tireless energy in registering the importance of mRNA's,'' at the same time he was teaching students and directing his department.
        Harris Busch was born in Chicago. He received his medical degree from the University of Illinois. In 1952, he received a doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin.
        After teaching at Yale and Illinois, he moved to Baylor College of Medicine in Houston to become a professor of pharmacology in 1960 and remained for the rest of his career. Dr. Busch was named a professor emeritus in 2004.
        He was editor of several books, including ''Methods in Cancer Research'' (1965) and ''The Cell Nucleus'' (1973).
        From 1989 to 1990, he served as president of the American Association for Cancer Research. He was also a former president of the Texas Medical Center Research Society.
        Dr. Busch is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Rose Klora, a microbiologist who collaborated in part of his research.
        He is also survived by three sons who became psychiatrists, Dr. Daniel Busch of Winnetka, Ill., Dr. Fredric Busch of Manhattan and Dr. Gerald Busch of Bellaire, Tex.; a daughter, Dr. Laura B. Smolkin, an educator, of Charlottesville, Va.; a brother, Dr. Edward Busch, a surgeon, of San Diego; and by 12 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      