
        Frederic Wakeman Jr., an eminent scholar of Chinese history who wrote richly detailed books spanning seven centuries -- from bloody dynastic struggles starting in the 1300's into the Communist era -- died Sept. 14 at his home in Lake Oswego, Ore. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said Janet Gilmore, a spokeswoman for the University of California, Berkeley, where Dr. Wakeman taught for his entire career, starting in 1965.
        Jonathan Spence, a professor of Chinese history at Yale University, called Dr. Wakeman ''quite simply the best modern Chinese historian of the last 30 years.''
        Dr. Wakeman's books were ''jammed with incident, relayed with emotion,'' Dr. Spence said.
        He added, ''Tracking his tales through their webs of detail and their unexpected juxtapositions was always a fascinating task.''
        Starting in the 1970's, Dr. Wakeman was also the chairman of committees formed by American academicians seeking to expand cultural and scholastic relations with China. In 1987, he helped write an appeal by 160 American scholars calling on the Chinese government to stop oppressing intellectuals.
        Frederic Evans Wakeman Jr. was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Dec. 12, 1937. His father was a novelist who often moved to homes around the world, including ones in Bermuda, France and Cuba. Frederic Jr. graduated from Harvard in 1959. He received a Ph.D. in Far Eastern history at Berkeley in 1965.
        Dr. Wakeman is survived by his wife, He Lea Wakeman; a daughter, Sarah Wakeman of Providence, R.I.; two sons, Frederic III, of London, and Matthew, of Kensington, Calif.; a sister, Sue Farquhar of Blacksburg, Va.; and two grandchildren.
        The author of seven books on Chinese history, all but one published by the University of California Press, Dr. Wakeman is perhaps best known for ''The Great Enterprise: The Manchu Reconstruction of Imperial Order in the 17th Century.'' The two-volume work, published in 1985, recounted the blood-soaked shift from the Ming dynasty to the Qing.
        In 2003, he published ''Spymaster: Dai Li and the Chinese Secret Service,'' an account of the connection between the underworld and the intelligence chief for Chang Kai-shek, the Nationalist general who unified China during the 1920's and 30's, but was ousted by Mao Zedong.
        That book ''was like police-blotter reporting,'' said Orville Schell, the dean of Berkeley's graduate school of journalism and an author of nine books on China. He was also a former teacher of Dr. Wakeman.
        ''Wakeman drilled into the seamy interstices where the underworld merged with the official government,'' Professor Schell said.
        Correction:  October 3, 2006, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Frederic Wakeman Jr., a scholar of Chinese history, misstated the relationship of Orville Schell, dean of the graduate school of journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, to Dr. Wakeman. Dean Schell is a former student of Dr. Wakeman, not a former teacher.
      