
        Friedrich Karl Flick, an heir to vast wealth, a father's notoriety and a name that in postwar Germany stood for a sinister nexus of politics and big business, died Thursday at his home on Lake Wörther in the southern Austrian province of Carinthia. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his financial manager, Jörg-Andreas Lohr, told the Austria Press Agency. He said Mr. Flick died shortly after being flown home by private helicopter from treatment in Munich.
        Mr. Flick, whom an Austrian magazine recently named the country's richest man, with assets of more than $8 billion, was known as a mild-mannered, even shy, man. His recent years were spent far removed from his days running the international empire he inherited in 1972.
        He sold it in a surprise move in 1985, four years after the ''Flick affair'' -- involving bribes in the millions given to politicians at the cabinet level -- touched off a protracted furor over party financing in what was then West Germany.
        The affair became synonymous with shady deals between big business and party politicians, a scandal that roiled Germany's major parties for years. Mr. Flick denied personal knowledge of the affair and emerged from it with his wealth intact. But the Flick Group and its top management were tied to bribes paid for influence and tax favors.
        The group rebuilt its management in 1983, but Mr. Flick sold it to Deutsche Bank two years later. In 1995 he announced that he was moving his principal residence, citizenship and the stewardship of his assets to Austria, the home of his third wife, Ingrid Ragger, about 30 years his junior, whom he married in 1990.
        She survives him, the Austrian Press Agency reported, along with their twin children and two daughters from a previous marriage, Alexandra and Elizabeth.
        Friedrich Karl Flick was born on Feb. 3, 1927, in Berlin, the eldest son of Friedrich Flick, an industrialist tried at Nuremberg for his involvement with the Hitler regime and its war machine.
        The father was convicted in 1947 by the Allied War Crime Tribunal for having employed slave labor to produce armaments and motor vehicles in his factories. He was sentenced to seven years in prison, served three and was released in 1950, free to return to what the war had left of his businesses.
        The son studied management and banking in Germany and the United States and joined his father's enterprise in 1957, at first overseeing its automotive, paper and chemical ventures.
        The elder Mr. Flick died in 1972 at the age of 89. Friedrich Karl took his place at the top of the family concern and, while still in his 40's, rebuilt it into Germany's biggest private holding company, with a worldwide complex of 103 subsidiaries and revenues approaching $4 billion by the early 1980's.
        While the old Flick empire was based mainly on steel and coal, its interests now lay in three manufacturing groups making everything from battle tanks to toilet paper, machinery to chemicals. At times it held substantial stakes in concerns like Daimler-Benz and W. R. Grace & Company, and it remained highly profitable until the scandal that reached into West Germany's ministerial ranks.
        According to an Austrian press report, Mr. Flick's fortune of $8.6 billion is vested in his private Friedrich Karl Flick Foundation, with the twins, Viktoria-Katharina and Karl-Friedrich, named as beneficiaries.
      