
        Peter M. Grosz, an engineer and authority on German aircraft from World War I who was also the son of the German Expressionist painter George Grosz, died on Sept. 29. He was 80 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Lilian, said.
        In recent years Mr. Grosz also drew attention for a lawsuit he filed, as executor for the estate of his father, against Serge Sabarsky, a Manhattan art dealer, arguing that Mr. Sabarsky had deprived it of appropriate compensation for the sale of hundreds of Grosz works he had acquired.
        The lawsuit was settled two months ago, Mrs. Grosz said yesterday, but she declined to provide specifics.
        As a small boy growing up in Berlin, Peter Grosz spent hours looking at the Templehof airport from the fifth-floor window of his aunt's apartment, eager to learn more about airplanes and how they worked, Mrs. Grosz said.
        He emigrated to the United States in 1933, a year after his father moved to New York to teach at the Art Students League. He graduated from Harvard University in 1950.
        Mr. Grosz worked as a consultant to an assortment of American companies, including the Ford Motor Company, helping them obtain patents and permissions in European markets. He was also an adviser to the aviation department of the German Technical Museum in Berlin and the National Air and Space Museum in Washington.
        Mr. Grosz wrote three books and hundreds of articles and monographs about early Central European aircraft. His first book, ''The German Giants,'' focused on the development and combat service of the multiple-engine, long-range bombers that struck London during World War I.
        Last year he was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit by the German government in recognition of his work as an aviation historian.
        Mr. Grosz was also immersed in the legacy of his father (1893-1959), who was best known for his harrowing depictions of life in Berlin in the aftermath of World War I and for portraits of grotesquely fat businessmen, soldiers and prostitutes.
        As the executor of his father's estate, Mr. Grosz spent years assembling his archives, which he sold to the Academy of Art in Berlin in the late 1980's.
        In 1995, acting for the estate, he filed a suit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan against Mr. Sabarsky, a dealer in German and Austrian art who had sold works on behalf of Peter Grosz and his brother, Martin, from 1973 to 1994.
        In the art world Mr. Sabarsky is also known for his role in conceiving the Neue Galerie, a Manhattan museum devoted to German Expressionist Art, with the cosmetics magnate Ronald S. Lauder.
        The suit, pressed against Mr. Sabarsky's estate after the dealer died in 1996, contended that he secretly acquired 440 Grosz works for himself, primarily drawings and watercolors produced in Germany in the 1910's and 1920's -- at the height of the artist's career -- then sold them.
        In an interview in 2001 Mr. Grosz said that over the years Mr. Sabarsky would ''buy art saying he sold it to third persons, but buying it for himself and giving us a fictional sales price.''
        ''We got paid for it,'' Mr. Grosz continued, ''but it wasn't on an open market, and it wasn't done competitively. It's up to an art dealer to increase the price, but because he was buying it for himself, he wanted to keep the prices as low as possible.''
        Lawyers for Mr. Sabarsky called the allegations ''totally false.''
        Mrs. Grosz would give no financial details of the settlement, saying only that it was ''settled to the estate's satisfaction.''
        Mr. and Mrs. Grosz had a son, Michael, and a daughter, Karin, who both died before him. In addition to his wife, Mr. Grosz is survived by his brother, Martin, of Philadelphia, who as Marty Grosz is a jazz guitarist and singer.
      