
        Timo Sarpaneva, a Finnish glassmaker whose sleek and adventuresome creations found their way into art museums, stylish dining rooms and textbooks on design, died on Oct. 2 in Helsinki, Finland. He was 79.
        His death was reported by STT, the Finnish news agency, which did not give a cause of death, The Associated Press said.
        Mr. Sarpaneva has been described as the last of a generation of post-World War II Finns who helped make Scandinavia's clean, simple lines a modern standard. He worked in ceramics, metal, textile and wood, but glass was his favorite medium because, he said, he loved to capture light.
        He called glass ''magical'' in its changeability and malleability, not to mention expressiveness. His work seemed to contain elements of Finland itself. Critics said he showed light as if seen from beneath the ice that covers the sea, or in the living foliage of a forest. His palette had somewhat more color than that of many previous Scandinavian designers.
        In an article in The New York Times in 1994, Rita Reif called Mr. Sarpaneva's work less exuberant than the free-form bowls and vases of the architect Alvar Aalto or the industrial designer Tapio Wirkkala, both of whom were Finns. But she called Mr. Sarpaneva's designs more sensuous in their finishes.
        The Washington Post in 1995 remarked that his ability to make big bubbles inside blown glass had the effect of adding ''something like a fourth dimension to his work.'' He could form molten glass into precise geometric shapes.
        His many awards included three grand prizes at the Milan Triennale, which has been called the Olympics of the design world. His work is in the collections of many important museums, including the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and there were several very popular touring exhibitions of his work in the 1990's.
        Timo Tapani Sarpaneva was born into a family of blacksmiths and textile artists in Helsinki on Oct. 31, 1926. His early memories became artistic inspiration: he said that one of his early hand-molded organic structures, ''Devil's Cradle'' (1951) came from playing with snow and ice as a child. ''At age 8 or 9, I held a piece of ice in my hand until I had made a hole in it with my warm finger,'' he said.
        He was trained as a graphic designer at the Central School of Industrial Design in Helsinki, the forerunner of the University of Art and Design, and graduated in 1948. He began working for the iittala Glassworks in 1950 as an independent designer and head of exhibitions. In 1956, he created the company logo, a lowercase ''i'' in a red circle, for which he won a grand prize in Milan the following year.
        In the 1950's, he introduced color -- ''smooth ones,'' he said, not ''striking ones'' -- to iittala. In the 1960's, he developed a method of blowing glass into a charred wooden mold to create a surface resembling cracked ice: many of his most popular drinkware designs reflect the icy beverages they hold.
        In 1962, he established his own office in Helsinki and began designing for various companies. For one of them, he created covered casseroles and pans, ready for use in the oven, on the table or in the refrigerator. For another, he designed stackable glass bottles with an indentation in the base to fit the lip of the next bottle; for these, he received the International Design Award.
        Outside of glassmaking, Mr. Sarpaneva introduced a computerized process for textile printing that imprinted the design on both sides of the fabric at the same time.
        Mr. Sarpaneva is survived by his wife, Marjetta Svennevig, and four children.
        A surprising inspiration for his work was sound, he sometimes said. In 2001, in an interview with The Independent of London, he spoke of the message of his ''Song of the Troll'' mug and plate set, made for the German ceramics company Rosenthal, as being, in some odd way, aural.
        ''Sound transformed into a picture,'' he said. ''The set of plates puts the sound into the song of the troll. Human ears cannot hear the voice coming out of the depths of the dark forest. One can only sense it. It is the moist coolness on the skin and the hardly noticeable ripples on the surfaces of hidden lakes.''
      