
        Robert H. Knight, an influential Wall Street lawyer who played behind-the-scenes roles for the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations in sensitive political situations like the Bay of Pigs, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y., after a long battle with lung cancer and a stomach perforation. He was 87.
        The death was reported by his son, Robert H. Knight Jr.
        Mr. Knight was an antitrust expert at Shearman & Sterling with a growing list of corporate clients and little interest in politics when he was recruited in 1958 to join the international security affairs arm of the Defense Department as deputy assistant secretary. The call came from John Irwin II, another lawyer who had previously held the job and had asked friends on Wall Street to recommend a successor.
        In a 1983 interview with The American Lawyer, Mr. Knight recalled that he had accepted out of a sense of social obligation but soon became involved in a number of intriguing assignments, including a request from President Eisenhower to travel the road from West Germany to West Berlin in order to gather firsthand information on the Soviet Union's efforts to isolate the enclave in the former German capital.
        Mr. Knight's acquaintances in the Eisenhower Administration included C. Douglas Dillon, the undersecretary of state. When Mr. Dillon was chosen by the incoming President John F. Kennedy to become secretary of the Treasury, he asked Mr. Knight to become general counsel.
        ''He exuded experience, calmness and good judgment,'' Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a telephone interview, recalling when he first met Mr. Knight at the Treasury Department.
        Mr. Knight stayed at the Treasury Department for a year. He had barely settled back to his practice at Shearman & Sterling in the fall of 1962 when he received a call from Robert F. Kennedy, the United States attorney general, asking him to play a role in freeing prisoners from the failed Bay of Pigs invasion.
        Mr. Kennedy asked Mr. Knight to provide the financial documents supporting the exchange of cash, food and drugs that had been promised to Cuban President Fidel Castro if he would release the more than 1,000 Cuban exiles who were captured when they landed in April 1961 at the Bay of Pigs. The exiles had been trying to depose Mr. Castro. Estimates of the value of the goods Mr. Knight collected, in donations from private companies in six weeks, range from $53 million to $85 million, which allowed the exiles to return to Florida by Christmas 1962.
        The following year, the Kennedy Administration again called on Mr. Knight for quiet assistance. This time he was dispatched to several cities in the South to warn bankers and business leaders that the administration was determined to pass civil rights legislation and to urge them to accept it.
        Mr. Knight continued to hear from succeeding administrations seeking advice on sensitive issues but he became prominent during the 1970's and 1980's as a leader in Shearman & Sterling's overseas expansion, particularly in the Middle East and China. He served as senior partner of the firm -- its top executive -- from 1982 to 1985. That job overlapped with his tenure as chairman of the New York Federal Reserve Bank from 1977 to 1983. Mr. Knight also served on numerous corporate boards of directors.
        Robert Huntington Knight was born February 27, 1919, in New Haven, Conn., the son of Earl W. Knight and Frances P. Whitney. A descendant of Eli Whitney, inventor of the cotton gin, Mr. Knight attended a succession of private schools and graduated from Yale University in 1940. He joined the Army Air Corps that year and married the former Alice Vallé.
        Mr. Knight graduated from the University of Virginia School of Law in 1947 and taught there for two years before joining Shearman & Sterling in 1949. His first marriage ended in divorce and he married the former Rosemary Gibson, in 1975. She survives him, as does his first wife.
        In addition to his son, Robert, Mr. Knight is survived by another son, E. Whitney Knight; daughters Jessie Knight and Patricia K. Cluett; and stepdaughters Gray Gibson Solar and Anne Gibson Proietti. He is also survived by three sisters: Partricia A. Beckhard; Susan K. Cecil; and Sarah E. Rabilloud; 18 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      