
        Raymond J. Noorda, a co-founder of Novell Inc., a software company that helped pioneer computer networking, died Monday at his home in Orem, Utah. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which he had for many years, his family said in a statement.
        Mr. Noorda was the chief executive of Novell from 1983 to 1995, a period of explosive growth in the use of computers both in businesses and homes. It was also a period when Novell, then a dominant player in computer networking, began to face a challenge from an upstart called Microsoft.
        During that time, a software program developed by Novell called NetWare was used extensively by businesses and other organizations to link together, or network, individual desktop computers so they could share printers and files.
        Mr. Noorda bought a majority stake in Novell Data Systems in 1982, when it was in bankruptcy, and transformed it into Novell Inc. When he arrived at Novell, it had 17 employees; at one point in the early 1990's that number rose to 12,000. Novell now employs about 5,000.
        Michael S. Dell, chairman of the computer manufacturer Dell Inc., and Kevin B. Rollins, Dell's chief executive, said in a joint statement released by Mr. Noorda's family that he had helped turn Novell into ''a major player in the network operating market during his tenure.''
        Facing a challenge from Microsoft, in 1993 Novell began offering a version of the Unix operating system to compete against the Windows NT operating system.
        In another move intended to counter Microsoft, Mr. Noorda engineered the $1.5 billion acquisition of the WordPerfect Corporation and the Quattro Pro spreadsheet business of Borland International.
        Industry analysts criticized the acquisitions, saying that Mr. Noorda had made the company more vulnerable to Microsoft and diverted management's attention from its core product, NetWare, which by then was having difficulty in the market.
        Eventually, Mr. Noorda's efforts failed, and Novell went into a decline.
        Mr. Noorda was born on June 19, 1924, in Ogden, Utah, and grew up there during the Great Depression. To supplement his family's income, he worked at odd jobs, including picking cherries, selling magazines and setting pins in a bowling alley.
        Mr. Noorda served during World War II as an electronics technician in the Navy.
        Subsequently, he attended the University of Utah, graduating with a degree in engineering in 1949.
        Mr. Noorda began his business career as an electrical engineer with General Electric, where he was employed for 21 years before concentrating on Novell.
        In late 1993, Mr. Noorda disclosed that he had begun suffering from slight memory lapses and intended to retire. He left Novell in 1995.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lewena Taylor; four sons, John, of Orem, Utah, Alan, of Provo, Utah, Andy, of Salt Lake City, and Brent, of Redwood City, Calif.; and 13 grandchildren.
      