
        Morris Tarshis, a gruff, cigar-chomping official who exercised behind-the-scenes power in New York City for a generation by settling labor strikes and, later, by determining who got city franchises, died on Monday in Glen Cove, on Long Island. He was 87.
        His daughter Roberta Tarshis, who confirmed the death, said he had suffered from multiple illnesses before contracting a fatal infection.
        Mr. Tarshis, who lived in Flushing, Queens, became the city's labor mediator in 1955. Mediators have no power other than persuasion, but he used a straightforward, informal approach in helping to settle strikes involving tugboat crews, nurses, musicians, newspaper workers, and drivers of hearses, milk trucks and ambulances, among others.
        He became director of the city's Bureau of Franchises in 1965. In that post, which he held for 21 years, he granted and regulated franchises to sidewalk cafes, private bus lines and cable television companies negotiating most of the deals in a dingy corner of the 13th floor of the Municipal Office Building.
        ''He saved the city millions of dollars because of his intelligence and negotiating ability,'' said Henry J. Stern, who dealt with Mr. Tarshis when he was assistant to the Manhattan borough president and who is now director of New York Civic, a watchdog group.
        Mr. Tarshis's municipal career ended in a cloud when accusations that he had improperly bought a used Cadillac from a bus company he regulated prompted him to resign. He said he had done nothing wrong but had quit because even appearances of impropriety were unacceptable for someone in that position. Never charged with an offense, he returned to law practice.
        Morris Tarshis, the son of a cemetery worker, was born in Manhattan on April 24, 1919, and received a law degree from St. John's University School of Law. He was in private practice until Mayor Robert F. Wagner hired him to be labor mediator.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1966, Mr. Tarshis described the delicate situation of a negotiator poised between two warring parties.
        ''Often the real issues of feeling about them have not been mentioned,'' he said. ''You have to be alert for them. A nod, someone bristling, someone suddenly taking notes, all these things can be signals.''
        Mr. Tarshis was appointed to the franchise post by the old Board of Estimate, which was responsible for budget and land-use decisions. The board, composed of the mayor, the city comptroller, the City Council president and the five borough presidents, was declared unconstitutional in 1989 by the Supreme Court, which held that it unfairly gave equal voting weight to boroughs with vastly differing populations.
        Mr. Tarshis's post meant that the board members could delegate the messy responsibility of making deals with people who wanted something from the city. On his own, Mr. Tarshis negotiated more than 200 potentially lucrative contracts. The board almost always ratified them.
        Mr. Tarshis kept no memorandums of his negotiations and no logs of conversations or visits by applicants or their lawyers, steps that were not then required. Those practices, as well as his autonomy, drew criticism well before he came under fire for the automobile purchase. Among other things, he was criticized for the terms of cable-TV contracts and was accused of threatening to end an airport limousine company's franchise as a favor to Teamsters who were striking against it.
        ''I'm troubled and uncomfortable about the secret way things are handled at the bureau,'' Carol Bellamy, the City Council president, said in an interview with The Times in 1979.
        Mr. Tarshis, a big man known for his blunt way of speaking, scoffed at the accusations of favoritism.
        ''Sure, I consider Bernie Shatzkin a close friend,'' he said, referring to a lawyer for private bus companies, in answer to a Times reporter's question in 1979, ''but in negotiations I deal with him as an enemy, not a friend.''
        His wife of 55 years, the former Norma Levenfus, died in 1994. Besides his daughter Roberta, of Manhattan, he is survived by another daughter, Phyllis Eldridge, of Westport, Conn.; a son, Stuart, of Jericho, N.Y.; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 24, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on Oct. 12 about Morris Tarshis, formerly New York City's top labor negotiator and director of its Bureau of Franchises, referred incorrectly to a 1989 Supreme Court decision about the city's Board of Estimate, which named Mr. Tarshis to the franchise post. The court held that giving equal voting weight to the five borough presidents was unconstitutional because their boroughs had widely varying populations; it did not find that the board itself was unconstitutional. (The board was later abolished.)
      