
        Dr. Saul J. Farber, a dean of New York University's medical school who led prestigious medical organizations, did groundbreaking research on kidneys and won many professional honors but was happiest making rounds with generations of interns and residents, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 88.
        The cause was complications of circulatory problems, said Dr. Martin Begun, a close friend and, like Dr. Farber, a retired top administrator at N.Y.U.'s School of Medicine and Medical Center.
        When Edgar Bronfman established a $2 million endowment for a dean's chair to be named for Dr. Farber, he called him ''a village doctor in the greatest city in the world.'' In particular, Dr. Farber devoted himself to Bellevue Hospital, long a teaching affiliate of N.Y.U.
        His colleagues were fond of saying that Dr. Farber had a love affair with N.Y.U. that dated from his arrival as a freshman chemistry major in 1935. Over the next seven decades, he went on to become a medical student, a resident, and finally the holder of many top posts there.
        He was chairman of N.Y.U.'s department of medicine for 34 years, director of medicine at Bellevue for 32 years, acting dean of the medical center three times (totaling a decade) and its dean and provost for 11 years.
        At Bellevue, he brought high-quality care to its often poor patients and crackling intellectual excitement to his students as he made his legendary Saturday morning rounds. Afterward, he would take his students to the nearby Easy Bay Coffee Shop, where he laced highly technical discussions with a rich store of stories and jokes. His demanding but human approach prompted the Association of American Medical Colleges to say he ''personified the highest ideal of academic medicine'' when presenting him with a major award in 1995.
        Despite his load of administrative duties, he managed to maintain a full teaching schedule, concentrating particularly on third-year medical students, whose medical clerkship he regarded as a critical element of their training.
        As an administrator, he helped N.Y.U. forge relationships with hospitals and clinics throughout the city, but so opposed its merger with Mount Sinai in 1998 that he retired months earlier than he had planned, Dr. Begun said. The merger later collapsed and the institutions are again independent.
        Dr. Farber's numerous honors included membership in the National Academy of Sciences; the presidency of the American College of Physicians; and chairmanship of the American Board of Internal Medicine and of the New York Academy of Medicine.
        Saul Joseph Farber was born on Feb. 11, 1918, in Manhattan. After undergraduate studies at N.Y.U. he went into the medical school, and earned his M.D. in 1942, at age 23.
        After a nine-month internship at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore, he served in the Navy Medical Corps during World War II, tending wounds in the South Pacific.
        Dr. Farber, ranging well beyond the walls of his own wards and laboratories, served on the board of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, among other things. In 1985, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appointed him to the New York State Task Force on Life and Law, where Dr. Farber played a major role in detailing procedures for discussions on whether to resuscitate a dying patient.
        He was a principal author of the New York Heart Association's classification of the various stages of heart failure and in the mid-1970s was chairman of a committee that oversaw the Veterans Administration's health care system.
        Dr. Farber is survived by his wife, the former Doris Marcia Balmuth; a son, Dr. Joshua Farber of Bethesda, Md.; a daughter, Beth Mina Farber Loewentheil of Baltimore; and four grandchildren.
        Years after his retirement, Dr. Farber attended Wednesday meetings to discuss medical breakthroughs and went on rounds each Saturday. On Sept. 11, 2001, leaning heavily on his cane, he was one of the first to arrive at Bellevue's ambulance bay to see if he could help.
      