
        Howard Brett Kerzner, the chief executive of Kerzner International Holdings, a global developer and operator of casinos and luxury resorts, died Wednesday off the coast of the Dominican Republic. He was 42, and lived in New York and on Paradise Island in the Bahamas.
        Mr. Kerzner, known as Butch since childhood, was surveying potential sites for resort development with one other passenger and two pilots when the helicopter crashed, the company said. There were no survivors.
        In January 2004, Mr. Kerzner was appointed chief executive of the company, which was founded by his father, Solomon Kerzner, who remains chairman. Its resorts include the Atlantis casino resort in the Bahamas.
        Since taking over, Mr. Kerzner has expanded Kerzner's international business. He developed the One & Only Brand, under which the company runs luxury hotels, destination resorts and casinos in Mexico, Mauritius, Dubai and the Maldives, with plans for a resort in Cape Town. He also committed $1 billion to expanding the Atlantis on Paradise Island in the Bahamas and recently made a bid to build an Atlantis in Singapore. Mr. Kerzner had also formed a joint venture to develop a resort called Atlantis, The Palm, in Dubai, which is expected to open at the end of 2008.
        ''I talk a lot about people we invest with being smart, hard-working and ethical,'' said Ronald S. Baron, chairman and chief executive of the Baron Capital Group, a $16 billion money management firm. ''When I talk about those people, the person I think about is Butch Kerzner.''
        In August, the Kerzners and investors took the company private for $3.6 billion, including debt.
        The company announced yesterday that Paul O'Neil, former president and managing director of Kerzner International, had been named chief executive.
        Mr. Kerzner, born in Durban, South Africa, on Jan. 27, 1964, was educated in Johannesburg before attending Stanford University, where he received his undergraduate degree and later a master's degree in business administration. He worked as a mergers and acquisitions banker at both Lazard Frères and First Boston before joining his father's company in 1992.
        He was active in several philanthropic ventures, including setting up the Kerzner Marine Foundation, to which he committed $5 million over five years for protection of the ocean and marine life. He also donated to a number of community projects in the Bahamas.
        In addition to his father, Solomon, survivors include his wife, Vanessa; a son, Tai; a daughter, Kaylin; his mother, Maureen; three sisters, Beverley, Andrea and Chantal; and a brother, Brandon.
        Robert Carron, a friend and chief operating officer of the Tribune Media Group in the Bahamas, recalls jogging with Mr. Kerzner, and the two men struggling to finish a mile. At that point, Mr. Carron said, Mr. Kerzner decided they would get in shape by running marathons.
        The two men once went for a jog in the Singita resort in South Africa. Mr. Carron, who ran at a slower pace, said he was a bit worried because the park was filled with lions and other predators. ''Butch told me, 'It's not dangerous unless you fall behind.' ''
      