
        Freddy Fender, a sweet-and-light-voiced popular singer who had hit records in both English and Spanish, shifting from country to pop to Tex-Mex music, died on Saturday night at his home in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        In the continuing story of Mexican-American culture's influence on the mainstream, Mr. Fender deserves a chapter of his own. Except for ''La Bamba'' recorded by Ritchie Valens, he was the first major American pop musician to sing a hit song in Spanish, as he did, at least in part, on ''Before the Next Teardrop Falls,'' from 1974. Through the different phases of his career, Mr. Fender kept returning to the traditional conjunto music and Tex-Mex ballad styles of his youth.
        Though he was an entertainer in the old romantic sense, caressing the words of ballads with a pronounced vibrato and his hand on his heart, he was pragmatic and serious about his involvement in bilingual pop projects of the last 15 years like the Texas Tornadoes and Los Super 7. He saw them, he said, as opportunities for a broader understanding of American music.
        Mr. Fender was born in San Benito, Tex., a heavily Mexican town 20 miles from Brownsville. His parents were migrant farm workers, and he traveled around the country with them. He served three years in the Marine Corps as a young man, then started his music career, playing in Texas bars. He met Doug Sahm, his future collaborator in the Texas Tornadoes, at a battle of the bands in 1960, on the roof of San Antonio's Town Twin Drive-In.
        Mr. Fender studied the R. & B. and pop singers of the late 50's; he was captivated by Clyde McPhatter, Ray Charles, Fats Domino and Little Richard, as well as by Jackie Wilson and Dean Martin. As Baldemar Huerta (his original name), he signed with the South Texas label Falcon in 1957 and recorded Spanish-language covers of Elvis Presley's ''Don't Be Cruel'' (''No Seas Cruel'' in Spanish) and Harry Belafonte's ''Jamaica Farewell'' (''Adíos a Jamaica''), both of which were hits in Mexico and South America.
        Signing to Imperial Records in 1959, he had his first English-language hit in 1960 with ''Wasted Days and Wasted Nights'' -- a classic example of the passionate, luxurious, echoey San Antonio R. & B. ballad sound, cast over rhythmic triplets common in Fats Domino records. By then he had become Freddy Fender, taking his name from the Fender guitar he played; his nickname was El Bebop Kid. ''I was a real beboppin' dude,'' he said much later. ''Cool. Collar up. Long sideburns. Lotta grease on my hair. When it got hot, the grease would melt and start going down my neck.''
        But in 1960 he was convicted of possession of marijuana, and he spent two years on the Angola Prison Farm in Louisiana. After five years in New Orleans, he returned to Texas in the late 1960's, working as a mechanic and playing music part time.
        It wasn't until 1974 that his second career started, with ''Before the Next Teardrop Falls,'' which went to No. 1 on the Billboard pop charts. That, and his next three singles -- one of them a lusher remake of ''Wasted Days and Wasted Nights'' -- all hit the Top 10 on the Billboard pop charts.
        In 1977, Mr. Fender started acting. He played Pancho Villa in the 1979 film ''She Came to the Valley'' and acted in several more movies, including Robert Redford's 1998 ''Milagro Beanfield War,'' in which he played Sammy Cantu, the mayor of Milagro, N.M.
        Mr. Fender won Grammy Awards for his work with Texas Tornadoes and Los Super 7; in 2002, he won a Grammy for his own album, ''La Música de Baldemar Huerta,'' in which he sang old Mexican and South American boleros.
        He had been living with hepatitis C since the 1980's and had both kidney and liver transplants over the last four years. In August he announced that he had incurable lung cancer.
        He is survived by his wife and manager, Evangelina, whom he married in 1957 and again in 1995, and their four children.
      