
        Carl A. Vergari, who modernized and strengthened law enforcement efforts as district attorney of Westchester County, died on Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84.
        His death was confirmed by Jim Celestino, an employee at the McGrath & Son funeral home in Bronxville.
        Mr. Vergari, a Republican, was district attorney from 1968 to 1994 and earned a reputation as one of Westchester's most formidable vote-getters. He generally ran without Republican primary opposition, and defeated Democrats by margins of more than 60 percent.
        ''For a whole generation, he's been Mr. District Attorney,'' Stephen Pittari, head of the criminal division of the Legal Aid Society of Westchester, said in an interview with The New York Times when Mr. Vergari retired.
        Some of his cases drew national attention. One involved a fire at the Stouffer's Inn in Harrison in 1980 in which 26 people died, but a judge threw out an arson conviction on the ground that the case had not been proved. Another was the successful prosecution of Jean S. Harris in 1981 for murdering her lover, Dr. Herman Tarnower, the cardiologist who wrote ''The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet.''
        Mr. Vergari increased the number of assistant district attorneys to 111 from 17, set up branch offices and established bureaus for prosecuting career criminals and perpetrators of domestic violence, among other specialties. One of those prosecutors was Janet DiFiore, the current district attorney. In a statement praising Mr. Vergari yesterday, she said that the hundreds of prosecutors who worked for him called themselves Vergari Associates, and Mr. Vergari ''Boss.''
        Another of his alumni was Jeanine F. Pirro, whom Mr. Vergari named to head the domestic violence unit. She succeeded him as district attorney in 1994, served 12 years and is now the Republican candidate for state attorney general.
        Carl Anthony Vergari was born in Yonkers on Dec. 7, 1921, to Frank Vergari and the former Teresa Molinari. He graduated from Fordham University, then served in the Marines in World War II and saw combat in the South Pacific. He earned a law degree from St. John's University and a master's degree in law from New York University, according to Who's Who in America.
        In 1948, he began working as an assistant district attorney in Manhattan under the legendary district attorney Frank Hogan, and in the next decade served in a variety of bureaus in Mr. Hogan's office. For the next 10 years, he was chief counsel to the State Committee on Investigation.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed Mr. Vergari as district attorney to fill a vacancy in 1968. When he stepped down in 1994, he did some private legal work, then retired to his winter home in Florida.
        Mr. Vergari is survived by his wife, the former Genevieve Louise Lindermann; his daughter, Jeanne Martinelli; and four grandchildren.
      