
        Sheldon Meyer, a distinguished editor of nonfiction books who was almost single-handedly responsible for the Americanization of Oxford University Press in his more than 40 years there, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Mr. Meyer died after a long illness, his family said.
        A specialist in American history, Mr. Meyer oversaw dozens of seminal works in the field, including ''Patriotic Gore: Studies in the Literature of the American Civil War,'' by Edmund Wilson (1962), and the entire Oxford History of the United States series.
        Several of Mr. Meyer's titles won Pulitzer Prizes, among them James M. McPherson's ''Battle Cry of Freedom,'' published in 1988. More than a dozen received the Bancroft Prize, given for distinguished historical scholarship.
        Mr. Meyer also made Oxford a major publisher of books about American popular culture -- notably jazz and musical theater -- and in so doing helped democratize scholarly publishing in the United States.
        His titles include ''Early Jazz,'' by Gunther Schuller (1968); ''American Musicians: Fifty-six Portraits in Jazz,'' by Whitney Balliett (1986); ''Visions of Jazz,'' by Gary Giddins (1998); ''American Musical Theater,'' by Gerald Bordman (1978); and ''American Popular Song,'' by Alec Wilder (1972, with James T. Maher).
        Mr. Meyer edited many notable books about black history and women's history, among them ''Black Culture and Black Consciousness,'' by Lawrence W. Levine (1977); ''In the Matter of Color,'' by A. Leon Higginbotham Jr. (1978); ''Black Liberation,'' by George M. Fredrickson (1995); and ''The Creation of Feminist Consciousness,'' by Gerda Lerner (1993).
        He also brought to Oxford a string of titles about another consuming passion, baseball. These included ''Baseball's Great Experiment: Jackie Robinson and His Legacy,'' by Jules Tygiel (1983), and Harold Seymour's three-volume history of the game.
        Sheldon Meyer was born in Chicago on June 8, 1926. He earned a bachelor's degree in history and American civilization from Princeton in 1949 and began his publishing career at Funk & Wagnalls two years later. As he liked to say, he started work on an auspicious date -- Oct. 3, 1951, the day Bobby Thomson of the New York Giants vanquished the Brooklyn Dodgers with his pennant-winning home run.
        In 1956, after a stint at Grosset & Dunlap, Mr. Meyer joined Oxford. There, he rose to become executive editor for trade books and later became a senior vice president with his own publishing unit. He was named a consulting editor on his retirement in 1997.
        In 2000, Oxford published an anthology in Mr. Meyer's honor, ''American Places: Encounters With History.'' Edited by William E. Leuchtenburg, the book gathers essays written by members of Mr. Meyer's distinguished stable about places as diverse as the Polo Grounds and cyberspace.
        Mr. Meyer is survived by his wife, the former Mary Kirk; a daughter, Arabella, of Manhattan; a son, Andrew, of Redding, Conn.; two sisters, Priscilla Tucker and Katina Arts Meyer, both of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
        In Mr. Meyer's early years with Oxford, he sometimes had trouble persuading dusty dons across the Atlantic that baseball and Basie were fit subjects for a European publishing concern founded in 1478.
        ''Now they're tremendously supportive,'' Mr. Meyer told The New York Times in 1988. ''They're delighted because the books do well and they reflect well on American culture. The whole field now has an aura of respectability about it.''
      