
        Hermann Frederick Eilts, who as a diplomat in the Middle East helped Henry A. Kissinger with his shuttle diplomacy, nursed President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt through the Camp David peace talks and dodged a Libyan hit team, died Oct. 12 at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 84.
        His son Frederick Lowell Eilts announced the death.
        Mr. Eilts, a former ambassador to Saudi Arabia and Egypt, was in the foreign service for 32 years, almost all of them in the Middle East, where he worked in Egypt, Libya, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. He also served in England, as a monitor of the Middle East.
        When he arrived in 1948 at his second post, in Saudi Arabia, the kingdom was barley pumping oil, and the Jidda airport terminal was a Quonset hut. In an interview with the Public Broadcasting System in 2003, he said he was greeted at the makeshift airport by a baboon ''who looked everybody over, and if the baboon approved, then one got through.''
        He was also a figure in major events, advising Mr. Kissinger who, as secretary of state, shuttled between Egypt and Israel in 1974 and 1975, when Mr. Eilts was the ambassador to Egypt. During the first part of his tenure in Egypt, he represented American interests in a section of the Spanish Embassy in Cairo, after diplomatic ties with the United States were cut off during the 1967 war with Israel.
        Mr. Kissinger succeeded in getting partial Israeli withdrawal from the Sinai Peninsula, which Israel had captured in that war.
        In 1978, The New York Times said that Mr. Eilts was ''one of the few ambassadors really trusted'' by Mr. Kissinger, whose suspicion of career diplomats was well known. Mr. Eilts at that time conducted his own shuttle diplomacy, traveling back and forth to Washington every few weeks to brief policy makers.
        Diplomatic ties with Egypt were restored in 1973, and Mr. Eilts was named ambassador. He played an intricate role in setting up Mr. Sadat's landmark trip to Jerusalem in 1977.
        ''No American knew Sadat better,'' William B. Quandt wrote in ''Camp David: Peacemaking and Politics'' (1986). The two conversed at all hours on a private phone line Mr. Sadat had requested.
        On July 30, 1978, Mr. Eilts sent a flash cable to President Jimmy Carter saying that Mr. Sadat was at the end of his patience over what he considered Israeli intransigence. President Carter decided it was time for a summit meeting, and on that day invited both leaders to Camp David, where they negotiated a historic agreement.
        Hermann Frederick Eilts was born in Weissenfels Saale, Germany, on March 23, 1922. His family brought him to the United States when he was 4, and he grew up in Scranton, Pa., where his father worked for the railroad.
        He became an American citizen in 1930 and graduated from Ursinus College in 1942. Before being drafted into the Army in World War II, he briefly attended the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, where he took a student job researching the legal status of Sudan under British and Egyptian control and became fascinated.
        He served in Army intelligence in World War II in North Africa and Europe, earning medals including a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star. After his discharge, Mr. Eilts earned a master's degree in Middle Eastern studies from the School of Advanced International Studies in Washington; it is now part of the Johns Hopkins University.
        While there, he met Helen Josephine Brew, a former Navy Wave who was specializing in the Far East. He persuaded her to switch to studying the Middle East, and they married after he entered the foreign service. She survives him, along with his sons, Frederick, of Wichita, Kan., and Conrad Marshall Eilts of Bahrain, and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Eilts was ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 1965 to 1970. In his first tour there in the 40's, he had many meetings with the founder of the kingdom, King Abdul Aziz. The trust he established at the highest levels of the Saudi leadership enabled him to press for their support for the Israel-Egypt peace process, although unsuccessfully.
        The Christian Science Monitor reported in 1981 that in 1976 Mr. Eilts was the target of assassins. The news emerged after intelligence reports declared that a ''hit team'' was pursuing President Ronald Reagan. Mr. Eilts told the newspaper that the authorities had ''irrefutable'' evidence that he had been a target five years earlier.
        ''The pattern was exactly the same in both cases,'' he said. ''Hit teams are discovered and then come the Libyan denials, with a demand that we produce the evidence.''
        Mr. Eilts retired from the foreign service in 1999 and started an international relations department at Boston University, where he taught. In his diplomatic career, he taught at the Army War College in Carlisle Barracks, Pa., where he was also deputy commandant.
        Not all of Mr. Eilts's negotiations concerned war and peace. In 1976, he negotiated an agreement to lend Egypt money at low interest rates to buy new garbage trucks for the city of Alexandria.
      