
        Herbert B. Leonard, a film and television producer who left an indelible mark on American popular culture with television series including ''Route 66'' and ''Naked City,'' died last Saturday at his daughter's home in Hollywood. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter, Gina Leonard, said. He lived with her in the years just preceding his death.
        Mr. Leonard moved to Hollywood in 1946, after serving in World War II, and eventually became a production manager for Screen Gems, a division of Columbia Pictures, and an independent producer. In a career that spanned more than 40 years, he produced hundreds of television projects and several movies.
        One of his early television producing projects was ''The Adventures of Rin Tin Tin,'' which ran from 1954 to 1959. A hit with children, it made a western star and a pet of a German shepherd character originally featured in movies after World War I.
        ''Naked City,'' adapted from the 1948 movie ''The Naked City,'' was shown from 1958 to 1963 and marked a sharp departure from his children's western. The episodes, which followed two fictional New York City detectives, were shot on location throughout New York City, something that was rarely done for television in the 1960's, and its stark urban realism sometimes approached that of cinéma vérité.
        ''Route 66,'' which began in 1960, followed two men in a Chevrolet Corvette along what might have been America's most famous highway. Each week, until the series ended in 1964, they encountered a different town and a different story. It was also shot on location, in about 25 states. A romance of the road that emphasized a sense of rootlessness, it stood out from many of the dramas and situation comedies that were its contemporaries.
        Ron Simon, a curator at the Museum of Television and Radio in New York City, said Mr. Leonard was one of the first to show that television did not have to be live and in the studio or shot on a Hollywood back lot.
        ''He was shooting America as it looked, especially 'Route 66,' '' he said. ''It became a great symbol of America on the move.''
        Mr. Leonard went on to produce movies, including ''The Perils of Pauline,'' starring Pat Boone, in 1967, and ''Popi,'' a comedy set in Spanish Harlem, in 1969.
        Herbert Breiter Leonard was born in New York City in 1922. In addition to his daughter Gina, of Hollywood Hills, Calif., he is survived by five other daughters, Michelle, of Kauai, Hawaii; Swan, of New Mexico; Victoria, of Hollywood Hills; Sophie, of Nevada; and Annie of Hollywood Hills; and three grandchildren.
      