
        Sigmund Strochlitz, a Holocaust survivor who worked with his close friend Elie Wiesel to create the National Holocaust Memorial Museum and who led the way in starting the annual ''day of remembrance'' now observed in every state, died on Oct. 16 at his home in New London, Conn. He was 89.
        The museum confirmed his death.
        Mr. Strochlitz found success as a Ford dealer, but he could not and did not wish to forget his awful experience in Nazi camps. In an interview with The Hartford Courant in 2003, he said he regretted removing the number tattooed on his arm in Auschwitz.
        So in 1978 he readily accepted when Mr. Wiesel asked President Carter to name him to the President's Commission on the Holocaust. In 2003, Together, a quarterly newspaper published by the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, called him Mr. Wiesel's ''chief lieutenant, his eyes and ears.''
        President Carter dispatched the two men and a band of colleagues to Eastern Europe, Denmark and Israel to study Holocaust memorials and cemeteries. Eventually, the full commission articulated the vision that would materialize as today's museum near the National Mall. Mr. Strochlitz's most visible role was as chairman of the remembrance committee.
        Less conspicuously, Mr. Strochlitz organized a campaign for Mr. Wiesel to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, which he did receive, in 1986. Together reported that Mr. Strochlitz relentlessly lobbied prominent people, including many heads of state.
        ''There was nowhere that Strochlitz would not go, no one with whom he would not speak,'' the newspaper said.
        Sigmund Strochlitz was born in Bedzin, Poland, in 1916, and went to a Hebrew high school before entering Jagiellonian University, where his studies were interrupted by World War II. In 1939, he escaped to the Soviet zone of occupied Poland, but missed his family and returned to Bedzin.
        In August 1943, as Poland's last ghettoes were being emptied, he and his family were deported to Birkenau, one of three camps at Auschwitz and the one where human extermination was done. His parents, sister and wife were killed on arrival. He survived 15 months there. Mr. Wiesel was there at the same time.
        As the war neared its end, he also survived perilous marches through a series of other camps. He ended up at the Bergen-Belsen camp in Germany, which was liberated by the British in April 1945.
        After the war, he stayed in Bergen-Belsen, which the British had made into a camp for displaced persons. He married Rose Grinberg there. She died in 2001.
        Mr. Strochlitz is survived by two sons, Jaime Strochlitz-Wurzel of Newton, Mass., and Rafael Strochlitz-Wurzel of New Britain, Conn.; two daughters, Halina Kirshenbaum of Tel Aviv, and Romana Strochlitz Primus of Waterford, Conn.; 14 grandchildren; and 23 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Strochlitz and his wife emigrated to New York in 1951. In 1956, he turned down a chance to run a Ford dealership in Manhattan for one in New London, which reminded him of his small town in Poland. His slogan: ''Come in. I would like to meet you.''
        His work for Jewish causes included the presidency of the friends of Haifa University and a term as a governor of Bar-Ilan University, both in Israel; service as a trustee of the American Jewish Congress; and membership in the American Society for Yad Vashem, which documents the Holocaust.
        Mr. Strochlitz spoke out forcefully on many issues, including the importance of remembering Gypsies killed by Hitler. He recalled the night 4,000 were murdered.
        ''In the morning, there was no more music, no more song,'' he said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1986. ''Just stinking smoke in the air.''
        In 1979, in a speech in the Connecticut Legislature, he sharply criticized Polish gentiles for helping the Nazis, sparking a firestorm of criticism. He said later that he had no regrets about his remarks, since although he was sure some gentiles had helped Jews, he himself had personally never witnessed it.
        One of Mr. Strochlitz's major contributions to the Holocaust museum came when he visited it shortly before its opening in 1993, Together reported. He looked at the model of the Birkenau crematoria, the very ones in which his family had burned. He sensed something important was missing.
        ''Where are the killers?'' he asked.
        A sculpture of a Nazi putting gas canisters in the chamber was added.
        Correction:  October 25, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Sigmund Strochlitz, a Holocaust survivor who worked with Elie Wiesel to help found the National Holocaust Memorial Museum, misattributed a description of Mr. Strochlitz and an anecdote about the first time he saw the memorial. It was a eulogy by Miles Lerman and Michael Berenbaum, published on Oct. 17 on the Web site of the quarterly publication Together -- not in the quarterly in 2003 -- that described Mr. Strochlitz as Mr. Wiesel's ''chief lieutenant, his eyes and ears.'' The Oct. 17 eulogy also recounted Mr. Strochlitz's reaction to the memorial, when he asked, ''Where are the killers?'' (Together and its Web site are published by the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors.)
      