
        Eric Newby, a dean of postwar British travel writing who spent more than half a century visiting some of the world's remotest places in journeys that to his great delight often went horribly wrong, died on Friday near Guildford, in Surrey, England. He was 86 and lived in Chilworth, also in Surrey.
        Mr. Newby died of natural causes, his daughter, Sonia Ashmore, told The Associated Press.
        Fifty years ago, in the summer of 1956, Mr. Newby set out on the trip that would make him famous: a voyage by station wagon, foot and horseback to climb Mir Samir, a 20,000-foot peak in Nuristan, a wild region in northeastern Afghanistan. The fact that he had never climbed a mountain did not deter him in the slightest.
        Mr. Newby chronicled the trip in ''A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush,'' published in Britain by Secker & Warburg in 1958 and in the United States by Doubleday the next year. As in all his work, the narrative was marked by genial self-effacement and overwhelming understatement.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review in 1959, William O. Douglas, a noted travel memoirist who by day was a justice of the United States Supreme Court, called the book ''a chatty, humorous and perceptive account.''
        He added: ''Even the unsanitary hotel accommodations, the infected drinking water, the unpalatable food, the inevitable dysentery are lively, amusing, laughable episodes.''
        In other adventures, Mr. Newby and his wife, Wanda, traveled down the Ganges in an enormous boat that ran aground after just 200 yards and required 32 men to carry it overland. Mr. Newby's account of the voyage was published as ''Slowly Down the Ganges'' (Hodder & Stoughton, 1966).
        Mr. and Mrs. Newby also spent a deeply uncomfortable winter touring Ireland by bicycle, a voyage whose damp agonies are described unsparingly in ''Round Ireland in Low Gear'' (Viking, 1987).
        George Eric Newby was born in London on Dec. 6, 1919. His father, a partner in a dressmaking concern, dreamed of travel, and young Eric was weaned on the great imperial tales of British exploration.
        Leaving school at 16, Eric took a job with an advertising agency. But he was restless, and at 18 begged an apprenticeship on a four-masted Finnish grain ship bound for Australia. The story of that journey would become his first book, ''The Last Grain Race'' (Houghton Mifflin), published in 1956.
        In 1942, Mr. Newby, then in the British military, was captured off the coast of Sicily. Sent to a prisoner-of-war camp in northern Italy, he caught the attention of a young local woman, Wanda Skof, whose family had come there from Slovenia. She helped him escape, and he spent several months in hiding, often living in a cave.
        Eventually recaptured, Mr. Newby spent the rest of the war in prison camps in Germany and Czechoslovakia. Afterward, he returned to Italy, found Ms. Skof and married her. His memoir of that time became one of his most acclaimed books, ''Love and War in the Apennines'' (Hodder & Stoughton, 1971). The book was made into a television movie, ''In Love and War,'' broadcast on CBS in 2001.
        Besides his wife and daughter, Mr. Newby is survived by a son, Jonathan, according to wire-service reports.
        In England in the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Newby worked in the fashion business as a buyer of women's clothing. He also worked for the publisher Secker & Warburg before becoming travel editor of The Observer of London, a job he held from 1964 to 1973.
        His other books include ''The Big Red Train Ride'' (St. Martin's, 1978); ''On the Shores of the Mediterranean'' (Little, Brown, 1984); and ''A Book of Travellers' Tales'' (Collins, 1985), an anthology he edited.
        Ill equipped and even more ill prepared, Mr. Newby never made it to the top of Mir Samir, though not for lack of imagination. To train for the ascent up the rock-strewn, icy mountain, he spent four days rock climbing in the Welsh countryside. He struck out for Afghanistan armed with British resoluteness, a pair of new boots and an exquisite taste for the absurd.
        He also carried a very useful pamphlet on how to climb mountains, which he stopped to read on the slopes of Mir Samir, just a thousand feet from the summit.
      