
        S. Peter Rosen, a physicist who combined pioneering studies of the subatomic particles called neutrinos with an administrative role in helping to guide federal research in high-energy physics, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 73.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a spokesman for the Department of Energy, where Dr. Rosen served as associate director of the Office of High Energy and Nuclear Physics from 1997 to 2003.
        As a senior science adviser at the Office of Science at the Energy Department, he helped negotiate an agreement for American participation in an international consortium building the Large Hadron Collider, a high-energy particle accelerator project under way near Geneva. In the field of theoretical physics, he was most widely recognized for work that began in the 1950's on a neutrino phenomenon known as double beta decay, a rare but naturally occurring form of radioactivity.
        With another researcher, Henry Primakoff, Dr. Rosen made observations of the decay, which takes place when instability within an atom's nucleus may suddenly release two electron neutrinos or possibly none at all -- a circumstance called neutrinoless double beta decay.
        In astrophysics, the research has had implications for explaining the composition of unseen ''dark matter,'' believed to be a powerful influence behind the expansion and evolution of the universe. Boris Kayser, a physicist and authority on neutrinos at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia, Ill., said, ''Rosen and Primakoff did the early work on the physics of decay and explored the consequences, setting a standard for the research to come.''
        Simon Peter Rosen was born in London. He earned his doctorate in physics from the Clarendon Laboratory at Oxford University in 1957.
        Dr. Rosen conducted research at Washington University in St. Louis before moving to Purdue as an assistant professor of physics in 1962. He was named a professor of physics there in 1966 and remained until 1984. He became an American citizen in 1972. From 1983 to 1990, he was an associate division leader for nuclear and particle physics at the Los Alamos National Laboratory.
        From 1990 to 1996, he was dean of science at the University of Texas at Arlington and, as a visiting scientist, helped to develop the Superconducting Super Collider project of the Energy Department, near Dallas, which was canceled by Congress in 1993.
        In his administrative role at the Energy Department, he displayed ''an uncanny ability to spot talent in younger scientists and to then find the most useful place for them,'' said Ephraim Fischbach, a professor of physics at Purdue and a former collaborator with Dr. Rosen.
        Dr. Rosen is survived by his wife of 19 years, Adrienne. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
        He is also survived by a son, Daniel, of Milwaukee; a daughter, Sarah of San Francisco; a stepson, Robert Hayes of Rockville; a stepdaughter, Brooke York of Arlington, Tex.; and one grandchild.
      