
        Christopher J. Makins, who followed his father into the British diplomatic service and then shifted course to become an influential expert on United States-European relations for Washington research organizations, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 63.
        The cause was complications of cancer of the head and neck, said his daughter, Marian Makins.
        Mr. Makins's father, Roger Makins, was British ambassador to the United States in the Eisenhower administration. Queen Elizabeth II made him the first Baron Sherfeld in 1964. The son inherited the title, but did not use or renounce it.
        Like his father, Christopher Makins, who was born with both British and American citizenships, demonstrated an ability to charm Washington's powerful. He became a significant behind-the scenes figure in United States-European relations, especially those between the United States and Britain.
        While holding high posts at organizations like the Trilateral Commission, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Mr. Makins, who was president of the Atlantic Council of the United States from 1999 until last year, exerted influence by writing and supervising reports and position papers, being a public spokesman and meeting frequently with policy makers.
        For example, as the Iraq war approached in 2002, he helped write a much-discussed report detailing differences in European and American views on the Middle East for the Atlantic Council, which seeks to stimulate discussion of international issues.
        In addition to his international relations work, Mr. Makins led seminars for executives at the Aspen Institute, where he rose to executive vice president.
        Christopher James Makins was born in Southampton, N.Y., on July 23, 1942. His father's father was Brig. Gen. Ernest Makins, a hero of the Boer War. His father, after leaving Washington in 1956, served in high British governmental posts like chairman of the Atomic Energy Authority, became a top investment banker and was chancellor of the University of Reading.
        His mother, Alice Davis, an American, was the daughter of Dwight Filley Davis, who was secretary of war in the Coolidge administration and established the Davis Cup tennis competition, which bears his name.
        Mr. Makins earned a first-class degree from New College of Oxford University in 1963 and became a fellow of All Souls College of Oxford the same year.
        He then entered the British diplomatic service in London, Paris and Washington, among other posts. He was in Prague when Soviet troops invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968. His last diplomatic job was as first secretary in Britain's embassy in Washington.
        In 1975, he married Wendy Catherine Whitney. She survives him, as does their daughter, Marian, who lives in Philadelphia; his stepdaughters, Elisabetta Cortesi of Winchester, Mass., and Isabella Cortesi of Oakland, Calif.; two grandchildren; four sisters; and a brother.
        Mr. Makins left the diplomatic service in 1975. He assumed that he had lost his American citizenship when he became a British diplomat, though his daughter said he never actually checked. He went through normal naturalization processes to regain it.
      