
        Leonid Hambro, a concert pianist noted for his prodigious memory, improvising genius and humorous musical desecrations as Victor Borge's straight man, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of head and vertebrae injuries suffered in a fall six weeks ago, said his wife, Barbara Hambro.
        As a pianist, Mr. Hambro had a huge repertory of pieces, most committed to memory. He used his storehouse in impressive displays called ''Command Performances,'' in which he gave a list of a hundred works to audience members and had them pick the program.
        In a near-legendary episode, Mr. Hambro substituted for an ill pianist in a concert of music by Paul Hindemith, conducted by the composer, at Town Hall in 1952. The part was complex and difficult, but Mr. Hambro had learned it in just 24 hours. Hindemith told people in the audience that they had heard a ''kind of miracle.''
        Mr. Hambro had a distinguished conventional career, making more than 100 recordings and touring worldwide. He played as a soloist with the orchestras of Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago and London, among many others. He was known especially as a sensitive and skilled chamber musician, collaborating with soloists like Fritz Kreisler, Jascha Heifetz, Isaac Stern, Leonard Rose and Pierre Fournier.
        For 17 years, he was a pianist for WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times Company, playing live recitals and chamber music on the air. He and another WQXR pianist, Jascha Zayde, formed a duo that played throughout the 1960's.
        But it was another partnership for which Mr. Hambro was best known. The entertainer Victor Borge was looking for a foil for his piano comedy act, and his producer recommended Mr. Hambro in 1961. Mr. Hambro resisted, Mrs. Hambro said, but finally gave in, although he made it clear he would continuing playing serious concerts.
        The men began a 10-year collaboration in which Mr. Hambro played the straight man to Borge's antics. Many of their routines were improvised. They were often based on the premise that Mr. Hambro was a silent second banana, but Borge would periodically give him a solo, saying it was his contractual obligation to do so, and then do everything he could to undermine the performance: whistling, walking around and playing with the microphone.
        In one of their bits, they would play Liszt's ''Hungarian Rhapsody'' No. 2 at the same keyboard, their arms intertwining and their fingers flying, until they eventually fell off the piano bench. Howard Taubman, a music critic for The Times, called Mr. Hambro ''the laughingest straight man you ever saw.''
        Mrs. Hambro said that Borge had memory lapses in the those joint performances, and that her husband used his improvising gift to kill time until Borge found his way. Borge paid him a compliment of sorts, at least in a quotation attributed to him: ''I think as much of Leonid Hambro as I do of myself, but not quite so often.''
        Leonid Hambro was born in Chicago. His father, born Simeon Musicant to a family of musicians in Russia, later changed his name to Hambro, after a borrowed identity card. He was also a pianist, often playing for silent movies.
        The younger Mr. Hambro was a prodigy, who played his first recital at 5. He attended the Juilliard School, where, on the side, he accompanied the violinists and cellists for the classes of star teachers. After a stint in the Navy during World War II, which he served state-side playing music, he won a Naumburg Foundation award in 1946 and was appointed the pianist of the New York Philharmonic several years later.
        In 1970 he ended his collaboration with Borge to lead the piano faculty at the California Institute of the Arts, where he stayed until 1987.
        In the early 1980's Mr. Hambro formed a piano ensemble with three top students. They toured as a quartet of pianos for 15 years. More recently he gave master classes and taught.
        Along with his wife, Mr. Hambro is survived by a son, Simeon; a sister, Darya Rodnon; and a granddaughter. A daughter, Ella, died about a decade ago.
        Mr. Hambro was an inveterate gambler, hitting casino tables with brio and lightening the wallets of poker-playing fellow musicians.
        He was not an introspective man, Mrs. Hambro said, and declined several invitations to write his memoirs.
        ''He did everything at the moment,'' she said, ''and he needed a live audience.''
        Correction:  October 28, 2006, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Leonid Hambro, a classical pianist who was also the straight man for Victor Borge, misstated the given name of his daughter, who died about a decade ago. She was Aralee, not Ella.
      