
        Arthur Hill, who brought engrossing complexity and understated intelligence to hundreds of roles on stage, screen and television and won a Tony Award for his performance in ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,'' died on Sunday in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his friend Walter Seltzer said.
        Mr. Hill was a well-known face on television for many years. On the television series ''Owen Marshall, Counselor at Law,'' which ran from 1971 to 1974, he played the title role, a lawyer whose main interest was helping people.
        He stopped acting after his first wife, Peggy Hassard, died in 1990.
        His television work included ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''The Defenders,'' ''Ben Casey,'' ''The Untouchables,'' ''The F.B.I.,'' ''Mission: Impossible,'' ''The Fugitive'' and ''Marcus Welby, M.D.'' His many films included ''Harper,'' ''A Bridge Too Far,'' ''The Ugly American'' and ''The Andromeda Strain.''
        In addition to his performance in ''Virginia Woolf,'' Mr. Hill's Broadway career included roles in the Pulitzer Prize-winning dramas ''All the Way Home'' and ''Look Homeward, Angel.''
        Arthur Edward Spence Hill was born in Melfort, Saskatchewan, on the Canadian prairie. His boyhood ambition was to be a lawyer like his father, who knew each of the town's 2,000 residents and was eager to help them with their problems. Writers have noted that in many ways Arthur Hill's ''Owen Marshall'' character resembled the actor's father.
        Mr. Hill's pre-law studies at the University of British Columbia were interrupted when he was drafted into the Royal Canadian Air Force, where he was a mechanic. After World War II he returned to the university, earned his bachelor's degree and began taking courses for a law degree.
        Needing money, he successfully auditioned for an acting job at a local radio station. He also joined a campus theatrical group. He toured Canada with the group before moving to London, where he almost immediately found a radio job with the British Broadcasting Corporation; after four months, he moved on to television and theater performances.
        Mr. Hill appeared in several West End productions and arrived on Broadway in 1955 in Thornton Wilder's play ''The Matchmaker,'' which was successful on both sides of the Atlantic.
        Walter Kerr, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, called him an ''enormously gifted player.''
        In ''Look Homeward, Angel,'' the stage adaptation of Thomas Wolfe's novel, he played Ben Gant, the dying older brother of the drama's principal character. Richard Watts Jr. in The New York Post lauded his ''infinitely understanding and touching portrayal.''
        Mr. Hill continued to work on Broadway in the 1950's. He also moved into television, appearing on ''The U.S. Steel Hour,'' ''Hallmark Hall of Fame,'' ''Studio One'' and other shows that emphasized serious drama. His American screen debut was in ''The Young Doctors'' in 1961.
        Mr. Hill was in Paris working on the movie ''In the Cool of the Day,'' in which he starred as the overprotective husband of a woman played by Jane Fonda, when he received the voluminous script of Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' He later recalled that he felt intimidated by it.
        By the time he reached New York, the play was already in rehearsal, and he told interviewers that he was so worried about catching up, he considered dropping out of the project.
        Mr. Hill stayed the course, partly because thoughtful characters intrigued him, he said in an interview with The New York Times. He played George, a failing middle-aged college professor locked in repetitive razor-sharp emotional confrontations with his acid-tongued wife, Martha, played by Uta Hagen. He won a Tony for best actor for the 1962-63 season and the New York Drama Critics award for best actor.
        Howard Taubman in The Times praised Mr. Hill's ''superbly modulated performance built on restraint as a foil to Miss Hagen's explosiveness.''
        Another of Mr. Hill's Broadway roles was in 1967 in Eugene O'Neill's ''More Stately Mansions.'' Working opposite Ingrid Bergman, he drew mixed reviews for his role as a man torn between a possessive wife and a possessive mother.
        Mr. Hill's survivors include his wife, Anne-Sophie Taraba; his son, Douglas, of Los Angeles; his stepdaughter, Xenia, of Washington; and his sisters, Pat and Eunice, both of Winnipeg, Canada. Mr. Hill took the acclaim he won for ''Virginia Woolf'' in stride, he said in an interview with The New York World-Telegram and Sun in 1962.
        ''I'm a fellow in the business,'' he said. ''I've been in it all my life. It's nice it happened. But I wouldn't have died if it hadn't.''
        Correction:  November 30, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Oct. 27 about the actor Arthur Hill misstated the year his first wife, Peggy Hassard, died and referred incorrectly to his retirement from acting. She died in 1998, not 1990, and Mr. Hill stopped acting around 1990 to care for her after she was found to have Alzheimer's disease, not after her death. The obituary also misstated the name of his stepdaughter. She is Daryn Sherman, not Xenia Hill. This correction was delayed for research.
      