
        Joel T. Broyhill, an 11-term Republican congressman from Virginia known in the 50's and 60's for his energetic opposition to integration, especially in the predominantly white middle-class suburbs he represented, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86.
        The cause was pneumonia, his daughter Jeanne Broyhill said.
        First elected in the Eisenhower landslide of 1952, Mr. Broyhill served in the House of Representatives until 1974. Besides opposing integration, he also voted against antipoverty and open-housing legislation.
        In 1955, Mr. Broyhill, who represented a district across the Potomac from Washington, was one of 81 House members who promised to exercise ''every lawful means'' to reverse Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court ruling outlawing segregation in public schools.
        But his politics represented a shade of difference from the archetypal, mostly Democratic, old segregationist South, said Merle Black, a professor of politics at Emory University. Professor Black and his brother Earl, a professor of politics at Rice University, wrote ''The Rise of Southern Republicans'' (Harvard University Press, 2002).
        ''Broyhill was typical of the small number of Southern Republicans elected to Congress in the early 50's,'' Professor Black said. ''He was a real estate developer elected by the middle class of Northern Virginia, so he reflected a growing white middle class throughout the South that wanted less government, lower taxes and keeping the suburbs as white as possible.''
        Joel Thomas Broyhill was born on Nov. 4, 1919, in Hopewell, Va., a son of Marvin T. and Nellie Brewer Broyhill. In 1941, Mr. Broyhill enlisted in the Army. While serving in Europe, he was promoted to captain. He was taken prisoner in the Battle of the Bulge, but escaped to fight again. After the war, Mr. Broyhill joined the real estate company owned by his father, which built several housing developments in northern Virginia.
        Besides his daughter Jeanne, of Arlington, Mr. Broyhill is survived by his wife, Suzanne, whom he married in 1981; two other daughters, Nancy Broyhill of Great Falls, Va., and Jane Houser of Vienna, Va.; a stepdaughter, Kimberly Lutz of Princeton, N.J.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, Jane Brass Broyhill, died in 1978.
        For 15 of his 22 years in Congress, Mr. Broyhill was a member of the House committee that dealt with the federal governance of the District of Columbia. He was one of four congressmen who, in 1956, recommended that segregation be reinstituted in the district's public schools.
        In 1972, Mr. Broyhill opposed a plan, adopted by 14 municipalities around Washington, to provide federally subsidized housing in the suburbs, reversing its concentration in the city. The idea, Mr. Broyhill said, ''smacks of forced integration.''
      