
        Lawrence W. Levine, a prolific historian whose deeply researched, tightly argued books challenged conventional wisdom in areas ranging from Shakespeare to slave songs to today's college curriculums, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, the University of California, Berkeley, said in a statement.
        Mr. Levine, whose many honors included a MacArthur Fellowship in 1983, taught at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., after retiring in 1994 from Berkeley, where he taught for 32 years. His taste for controversy included participating in civil rights sit-ins at Berkeley and in the South and defending the Free Speech Movement at Berkeley in 1964.
        He also relished intellectual jousts. He dived head first into the raging debate about higher education that Allan Bloom ignited in 1987 with his best seller, ''The Closing of the American Mind.''
        Mr. Levine countered him in ''The Opening of the American Mind: Canons, Culture and History'' (1996), asserting that Mr. Bloom's ideal curriculum, the so-called canon, never existed and arguing that recent changes in curriculums to broaden courses and readings to include other cultures were indisputably big steps forward.
        Mr. Levine used the experiences of his family to support his argument that today's model is not the American melting pot but a cultural mosaic in which discrete ethnic groups persist and interact with other groups. He was the child of a Lithuanian Jewish father and a Russian Jewish mother.
        He wrote that he learned he ''could have both Moses and Lincoln for forefathers, both the Torah and the United States Constitution for moral and legal touchstones, both Joshua and Joe Louis for warrior heroes, both the Jewish shul and the American public school for houses of learning.''
        The Times Higher Education Supplement called Mr. Levine's book ''an important corrective,'' applauding its diagnosis that ''the American university is alive and well.''
        On the other side, Lynne Cheney, a strong supporter of Mr. Bloom's analysis, wrote in The Washington Times that Mr. Levine ''offers up a distorted version of the current critique of our campuses.'' Mrs. Cheney, the wife of Vice President Dick Cheney, said the problem was not that universities were including important blacks like Frederick Douglass, but that they were demonizing heroes like George Washington and Thomas Edison.
        Mr. Levine's most critically acclaimed work was probably ''Black Culture and Black Consciousness: Afro-American Folk Thought from Slavery to Freedom'' (1977). In it, he examined religion, music, humor, folk tales and superstitions to show how slaves developed their own culture within the confines of slavery. He said that jokes told by slaves represented an effort to laugh even during their trials.
        The book was in line with a dominant trend among historians in the latter half of the 20th century: to try to understand the past through the experiences of ordinary people, of peasants, not princes. Jerry H. Bryant, writing in The Nation, said that despite this emphasis on social and folk history, Mr. Levine did not eschew ''thorough and systematic research and presentation.''
        Mr. Levine provoked animated discussion with his 1988 book, ''Highbrow/Lowbrow: The Emergence of Cultural Hierarchy in America.'' He presented evidence that Shakespeare and opera were considered popular entertainment in the mid-19th century, and that culture only later split into mass, refined and in-between versions.
        His insight was generally commended, but some questioned how many in today's audiences would appreciate changes in revered works to make them more appealing to more people. For example, the music of Beethoven and Mozart was modified a century and a half ago, and some of Shakespeare's endings were altered to make them happier.
        Newsweek reported, ''Levine himself admits he'd hate to explain his theories in a 19th-century lecture hall.''
        Lawrence William Levine was born in Manhattan on Feb. 27, 1933. He graduated from the City University of New York, where, he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1996, he learned ''very little about the vast majority of the people in the world.''
        ''We studied Northern and Western Europe,'' he said. ''Nothing on Africa, Asia and Latin America. Even Canada was a blank.''
        Mr. Levine taught briefly at City University and Princeton before moving to Berkeley in 1962. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1985 and named a Guggenheim Fellow in 1994. He was president of the Organization of American Historians in 1992-3.
        Mr. Levine is survived by his wife, the former Cornelia Roettcher, with whom he wrote ''The People and the President: America's Conversation with F.D.R.'' (2002). It contains some of the millions of letters written to President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        He is also survived by two sons, Joshua and Isaac, both of Berkeley; a stepson, Alexander Pimentel of Richmond, Calif.; a sister, Linda Brown of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Levine's prickly curiosity and intellectual rigor were suggested by the essays in his book ''The Unpredictable Past: Explorations in American Cultural History'' (1993). He went beyond most historians' interest in interpreting events to pondering which events deserve attention. For useful help in deciding, he recommended studying comic strips.
      