
        John S. Bainbridge, who organized a law-education program that trained many leaders in emerging African nations in the 1960's and later helped establish the Touro College law center in Huntington, N.Y., died on Jan. 25 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 90.
        His family said he died after years of declining health.
        Mr. Bainbridge was assistant dean of Columbia Law School and associate director of the International Fellows Program when he devised a program to help new countries in postcolonial Africa build up their law schools. It was called the Sailer project, an acronym for Staffing of African Institutions of Legal Education and Research, and got the backing of the Ford Foundation.
        Starting in 1962, he directed it for 10 years. His project sent 116 young lawyers and professors to law schools in English-speaking African countries, and brought African students to study law in the United States and return home to teach.
        ''The project made a difference in Africa at the time, as the new nations emerged,'' said David Brownwood, a retired partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, who taught for two years in Kenya and Sudan, ''and, I think, has had a lasting impact in many ways as the students and teachers involved matured into leaders in their countries.''
        Mr. Bainbridge went on to work at several other law schools. In 1982, he joined the recently formed Touro Law Center as its dean. He held the post for three years and helped it gain national accreditation. It is now known as the Touro College Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Center.
        John Seaman Bainbridge was born in Manhattan and graduated from Harvard in 1938. After receiving his law degree from Columbia in 1941, he served as a Navy officer in the Pacific.
        He was in private practice until 1956, when he returned to Columbia Law as assistant dean and was briefly an assistant to the president of Columbia University in the mid-1960's. After the Sailer project, he held administrative posts at the law schools of Wayne State University, Pace University, Northern Illinois University and Delaware Law School, then became dean at Touro.
        Mr. Bainbridge is survived by his wife of 27 years, Elizabeth Liu Bainbridge; a son, John S. Jr., of Glyndon, Md.; four grandchildren; three stepchildren; and three step-grandchildren. His first marriage, to Katherine Garrett Bainbridge, ended in divorce.
      