
        Arnold Sundgaard, a lyricist, librettist and playwright who collaborated with some of the most distinguished artists of the 20th century, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Dallas. He was 96.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his granddaughter, Maren Sundgaard, said.
        As a lyricist, Mr. Sundgaard worked with some of the leading composers of the day, including Kurt Weill and Alec Wilder. With Weill, he wrote the libretto for the 1948 folk opera ''Down in the Valley.'' With Wilder, he wrote several songs, including ''How Lovely Is Christmas,'' that appear on the album ''Bing Crosby's White Christmas in Story and Song,'' released last year.
        Mr. Sundgaard also wrote librettos for nearly a dozen operas, including ''The Lowland Sea'' with Wilder in 1952. With Douglas S. Moore, he wrote ''Giants in the Earth,'' an opera based on the novel by O. E. Rolvaag. Moore's score won the Pulitzer Prize for music in 1951.
        In recent years, Mr. Sundgaard turned to writing children's picture books. Here too, he had an eminent accomplice, the noted illustrator Eric Carle, with whom he did ''The Lamb and the Butterfly'' (Orchard Books, 1988). Mr. Sundgaard also wrote ''The Bear Who Loved Puccini'' (Philomel, 1992), illustrated by Dominic Catalano.
        As a playwright, Mr. Sundgaard saw a half-dozen of his works come fleetingly to Broadway, including ''Of Love Remembered'' (1967), directed by Burgess Meredith and starring Ingrid Thulin. He was perhaps better known as the author of ''Spirochete: A History,'' an impassioned drama about the war against syphilis, which caused a sensation when it was produced by the Federal Theater Project in 1938.
        Arnold Olaf Sundgaard was born in St. Paul on Oct. 31, 1909, to Norwegian parents. He received a bachelor's degree in English from the University of Wisconsin in 1935, and also studied at the Yale Drama School. He later taught drama at several colleges and universities, among them Columbia, Bennington and the University of Texas.
        Mr. Sundgaard's first marriage, to Margaret Christensen, ended in divorce; his second, to Marge Kane, ended with her death in 1998. He is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Joy Kaiser of Palo Alto, Calif., and Jill Jones of Belmont, Mass.; a son from his second marriage, Stephen, of Dallas; nine grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren. Another son from Mr. Sundgaard's second marriage, Jeremy, died in 1985.
        ''Spirochete'' began at the Chicago Federal Theater Project, where Mr. Sundgaard was working as a play reader. In the 1930's, syphilis was a major public health concern, and it seemed a fitting subject for one of the Theater Project's ''Living Newspapers,'' staged dramatizations of current events.
        Mentored by the distinguished writer Susan Glaspell, Mr. Sundgaard wrote a two-act play chronicling the spread of the disease and the search for a cure. Ranging in time from the 1490s to the 1930s, ''Spirochete,'' has more than 70 different speaking parts, a Depression tactic designed to provide work for as many actors as possible.
        Critically praised in Chicago, ''Spirochete'' moved to Philadelphia in 1939. There, religious leaders tried to close it down. The show went on anyway, playing for five weeks to approving notices from doctors, a family-court judge and the newspapers.
      