
        Dr. Arthur I. Holleb, a surgical oncologist and educator who as chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society pushed to have mammograms provided to women under 50 and helped the society promote promising new treatments, died on Oct. 19 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said.
        In the 1980s, when Dr. Holleb was with the cancer society, he helped introduce guidelines that called for a more vigorous national effort at early detection. At the time, opinion was divided about the risks and effectiveness of mammography for younger women showing no symptoms of breast cancer. The society concluded that there were substantial benefits in breast X-rays every two or three years for women ages 40 to 49, and annually thereafter, a finding that Dr. Holleb, who specialized in breast cancer, carried to the news media. Today, annual mammograms are recommended for women over 40.
        Dr. LaSalle D. Leffall Jr., a cancer specialist and a professor of surgery at Howard University, said that Dr. Holleb was ''right on top of things in pushing for early detection and prevention'' and that he had been instrumental in encouraging early studies of racial, economic and ethnic disparities among cancer patients.
        Dr. Leffall, who was president of the American Cancer Society from 1978 to 1979, added that ''there is no question the recommendation for earlier mammograms has been highly effective.''
        Dr. Holleb also spoke out about cancer risks from smoking and what he termed ''the manipulation of young women by cigarette manufacturers,'' in a period when the cancer society's estimates for women's deaths from lung cancer began to outnumber breast cancer deaths. In the 1960s and '70s, he promoted the Pap test for detecting cervical cancer in women.
        With Jane E. Brody, a columnist for The New York Times, he wrote a popular book, ''You Can Fight Cancer and Win'' (1977), which Dr. Leffall said emphasized Dr. Holleb's repeated message that ''if the diagnosis comes early enough, it leads to much higher rates of survival and even to cure.''
        Arthur Irving Holleb was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Brown University, and received his M.D. from New York University in 1944.
        Dr. Holleb trained in surgery at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center before becoming associate director of the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute in Houston, where he was a professor of surgery at the University of Texas.
        In 1968, he was named vice president for medical affairs and chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society. He retired in 1988.
        Dr. Holleb is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Carolyn Oglesby. He is also survived by a son, David, of Gladstone, N.J.; a daughter, Susan Crocker, of Wellesley, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
      