
        Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, an internationally known infectious diseases expert and educator who was also one of the most powerful figures in American medicine for many years, died in Seattle on Sept. 29. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of strokes, said Dr. William Bremner, chairman of the department of medicine at the University of Washington, where Dr. Petersdorf taught, practiced and did research for more than 25 years.
        Dr. Petersdorf became famous in medicine for a classic study of prolonged fevers of unknown origin, which he carried out with Dr. Paul Beeson at Yale. Doctors still cite the study, published in 1961, although CT, MRI and other scans have made some of its findings less relevant to practice today.
        At the age of 38, Dr. Petersdorf was one of the youngest chairmen of medicine in the United States when he took that position in Seattle in 1964. After 15 years, he moved on to other prominent positions.
        Although Dr. Petersdorf was often blunt in making his opinions known and in forcing change on groups he considered stodgy, he became president of a big share of the major academic and internal medical organizations, becoming a national influence on health policy.
        For eight years, from 1986 to 1994, he was president of the Association of American Medical Colleges, based in Washington, D.C., an advocacy group that now represents all 142 accredited medical schools in the United States and Canada as well as nearly 400 major teaching hospitals and health systems.
        As head of the association, Dr. Petersdorf worked to increase the number of primary care doctors in general internal medicine and family practice because he and others believed too many doctors specialized.
        He also strengthened efforts to enroll underrepresented minorities and pressed for changes to limit the demands of residency training. He worked to improve communication between medical educators and Congress in an era when national health policies and budgets increasingly affected medical schools and their teaching hospitals.
        Earlier, Dr. Petersdorf was president of the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and professor of medicine at Harvard from 1979 to 1981. Then for five years he was vice chancellor for health sciences and dean of the University of California at San Diego School of Medicine, leaving to become president of the Association of American Medical Colleges.
        From 1968 to 1990, he was an editor of ''Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine,'' a major textbook.
        Dr. Petersdorf trained a number of leaders of American medicine as he moved back and forth between the East and West Coasts. He had a knack for ''identifying good people who he knew would work hard,'' and in return he ''earned a tremendous loyalty from them,'' said Dr. Marvin Turck, another leading infectious disease expert at the University of Washington.
        Dr. Petersdorf, who was known affectionately to his colleagues as the Dorf, usually swam at lunchtime. As a teacher, he emphasized the practical and demanded that his students be prepared, and if they were not, he occasionally terrified them during rounds, said Dr. Paul G. Ramsey, the dean and vice president of the University of Washington. Dr. Roger J. Bulger, who retired last year as president of the Association of Academic Health Centers, based in Washington D.C., and who trained with Dr. Petersdorf, said that ''the knowledge he could spew extemporaneously on rounds was pretty amazing.''
        Robert George Petersdorf was born in Berlin on Feb. 14, 1926. His mother, Sonja, was a fashion designer and his father, Hans, a businessman. At the age of 2 he came with his family to the United States.
        After attending the University of Wisconsin for a year, he was drafted into the Army and assigned to a preventive-medicine group. After his discharge, he entered Brown, graduating in 1948, and then earned a medical degree from Yale in 1952.
        After residency training at Yale and Harvard, he trained further in infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins.
        In 1960, Dr. Petersdorf became the first and only full-time faculty member at what is now Harborview Medical Center, a part of the University of Washington.
        As chairman, he expanded the department of medicine from 69 full-time faculty members when he took over to 322. With colleagues he conducted research on the mechanism of fever, meningitis and urinary tract infections.
        Dr. Petersdorf is survived by his wife, Patricia; two sons, Stephen H., an oncologist at the University of Washington, and John E., a health-care manager in San Francisco; a brother, Rudi of Ojai, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      