
        Marshal Igor D. Sergeyev, a career soldier who rose to command Russia's nuclear missiles and then became defense minister, presiding over a deteriorated military until being fired in 2001 in the aftermath of the disastrous sinking of a submarine, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 68.
        The cause was blood cancer, Vyacheslav Klyuzhev, director of Burdenko Military Hospital, told the Russia and CIS Military Newswire.
        Marshal Sergeyev was the first general promoted to the highest rank of marshal in post-Communist Russia and was the only person to hold that rank at the time of his death. After President Vladimir V. Putin fired him as defense minister in March 2001, Marshal Sergeyev continued to serve Mr. Putin as an adviser on strategic issues.
        In 1997, President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Putin's predecessor, who had vowed in his re-election campaign to transform the flabby Soviet military machine into an effectual force, appointed Marshal Sergeyev defense minister. Mr. Yeltsin charged him with creating ''a mobile, well-equipped new type of army and fleet.''
        The Washington Post suggested that reasons for his selection included his reputation for being untainted by corruption and the prestige of his previous job, head of the Strategic Missile Forces, which had retained higher priority than regular army units, which were then falling apart.
        Another reason may have been to add Marshal Sergeyev's expertise and credibility to Mr. Yeltsin's campaign to persuade the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian Parliament, to ratify the Start II arms limitation treaty, signed in 1993. (The Duma's subsequent ratification was conditioned on approvals that the United States Senate never gave.)
        Marshal Sergeyev did not bolster conventional forces as President Yeltsin had proposed, but instead strove to increase the combat readiness of nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missiles, his expertise. He fought bureaucratic battles against other military policy makers to concentrate military spending in this area. He also battled attempts to decentralize nuclear forces among the various armed services, successfully arguing for a single command.
        War games in 1999 showed that conventional forces were indeed weak: simulated nuclear strikes were needed to beat an unidentified opponent, which Russian newspapers said was clearly the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        ''Sergeyev wants to maintain the strategic missile forces as a political-military instrument, as the main lever of pressure on the United States and NATO,'' Yuri Gladkevich, a military analyst at the Independent Military News Agency in Moscow, said in an interview with The Guardian in 2001.
        As defense minister, Marshal Sergeyev became the first high-level Russian since 1979 to visit Iran, where he signed a weapons deal. He proposed an all-European antimissile system as well as a method for shooting down missiles immediately after launching. He sharply warned the United States against attacking Iraq, and accused it of aiding the Chechen rebels that Russia was fighting.
        By the summer of 2000, Marshal Sergeyev's rivals, who favored conventional forces, appeared to be gaining ground. On Aug. 6 of that year, Mr. Putin dismissed six generals allied with him.
        Then, on Aug. 12, 2000, the submarine Kursk sank after two explosions in the Barents Sea, and the Russian military's response was fumbling. Marshal Sergeyev accepted responsibility. He was dismissed as defense minister in March 2001 and was replaced by Sergei Ivanov, a former colleague of Mr. Putin in the K.G.B.
        Igor Dmitriyevich Sergeyev was born on April 30, 1938, in Verkhnyu, Ukraine. The Russian authorities released no information on survivors.
        He was briefly in the navy, then spent most of his career in the Strategic Missile Forces. He held some of its highest posts, including deputy commander of the forces for combat training. He became commander in chief in 1992.
        As post-Communist Russia wrestled with chaos, it was his job to maintain tight discipline over some of the world's deadliest weapons. In 1994, the difficulty was suggested by his reaction when the Moscow electric authority cut off power to nuclear missile bases because utility bills were overdue.
        ''There are no words in the Russian language, even unprintable ones, to describe what happened,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times.
        The previous year, he was the guest of the American military at some of its critical nuclear command posts, part of a confidence-building program between the biggest nuclear powers. He was taken to the exact center of the Pentagon, a sandwich stand named Ground Zero. He said that was the precise spot he had made a target of.
      