
        Jack Palance, a coal miner's son who spent most of a long Hollywood career playing memorable heavies in movies like ''Shane'' and ''Sudden Fear,'' only to win an Academy Award in his 70s for a self-parodying comic performance in ''City Slickers,'' died yesterday at his home in Montecito, Calif.
        His death was announced by a family spokesman, Dick Guttman, The Associated Press said. His family said he was 87, though some biographical records indicate he was 85.
        Mr. Palance (he pronounced it PAL-ance and grew annoyed when others insisted on the more flowery pa-LANCE) first gained wide notice in 1953, when he electrified movie audiences with his serpentine portrayal of the nasty gunfighter Jack Wilson in the classic film ''Shane.''
        He had only 16 lines in the film, as well as a few ice-cold gothic murmurs of laughter off screen, before he was dispatched by a heroic Alan Ladd in a barroom duel. But the performance drew an Oscar nomination for him for best supporting actor, and it all but sealed his fate as a perennial Hollywood bad guy for years, even though he had always thought he would be good at comedy.
        His big chance for that came nearly four decades later, when he was cast in ''City Slickers,'' a 1991 western comedy about midlife crisis. Mr. Palance played Curly, a leather-tough trail boss shepherding about some urban greenhorns looking for weekend adventure. His co-stars were Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby, who died in August.
        It was a comedy of the sort Mr. Palance had always wanted, and the performance brought him his only Oscar, in 1992, for best supporting actor.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Palance, an imposing presence at 6 feet 4, was instantly recognizable for his rugged profile, deep-set dark eyes, high cheekbones and, when the part called for it, which was almost always, a deliciously sinister sneer. It was put to use over and over as he played crooks, murderers, maniacs, barbarians (like Attila the Hun), uncouth lovers and at least one violence-prone carrier of pneumonic plague.
        When reporters asked him what he thought about most of his films, he tended to dismiss them as ''garbage.'' Still, his part as a homicidal husband stalking Joan Crawford in ''Sudden Fear'' (1952) also won him an Oscar nomination, and his role as a robber with a heart in ''I Died a Thousand Times'' (1955), a remake of Humphrey Bogart's ''High Sierra,'' won him better reviews than the movie itself.
        Walter Jack Palance was born Feb. 18, 1918, or Feb. 18, 1920, in Lattimer Mines, Pa., the third child of Vladimir Palahniuk, a coal miner, and the former Anna Gramiak, both immigrants from Ukraine. (Named after his father, he changed his name after he became an actor.) The family lived in a rough-and-tumble company town that Mr. Palance later said was where he ''learned how to hate,'' even though he said he loved the Pennsylvania countryside and owned property there.
        Mr. Palance worked in the mines himself before he escaped into acting by way of professional boxing, modeling, short-order cooking, waiting on tables, repairing radios, selling and working as a lifeguard.
        In 1942, during World War II, he joined the Army Air Corps, only to be discharged a year later after he was knocked unconscious when his B-24 bomber lost power on takeoff. After the service he used the G.I. Bill of Rights to attend the University of North Carolina and later Stanford University, where he considered becoming a journalist. But journalists' wages were so poor then, he recalled, that he was drawn to acting, which he saw as potentially more lucrative, and joined the university drama club. He graduated in 1947 with a degree in drama.
        Producers and casting directors were taken with his unusual looks and rich voice, and he got parts in the Broadway productions of ''The Big Two'' (1947), ''Temporary Island'' (1948) and ''The Vigil,'' also 1948. That same year he also played Anthony Quinn's understudy as Stanley Kowalski in the touring company of the Tennessee Williams play ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' He later replaced Marlon Brando in the role on Broadway.
        His first movie role came in 1950, playing Blackie, an antisocial carrier of pneumonic plague in ''Panic in the Streets,'' which starred Richard Widmark. Then came a war picture, ''Halls of Montezuma,'' and after that, , his Oscar-nominated performance in ''Sudden Fear.''
        His second nomination came the following year, for his portrayal of Jack Wilson, the menacing gunslinger in ''Shane.''
        The acclaim from those roles brought him parts in ''Arrowhead'' (as a renegade Apache), ''Man in the Attic'' (as Jack the Ripper), ''Sign of the Pagan'' (as Attila the Hun) and ''The Silver Chalice'' (as a fictional challenger to Jesus).
        Among his other films were ''Kiss of Fire,'' ''The Big Knife,'' ''Attack!'' ''The Lonely Man,'' ''House of Numbers'' and ''Oklahoma Crude.'' He also made a number of movies abroad.
        Mr. Palance married Virginia Baker in 1949; they had three children, Holly, Brooke and Cody. Cody died of a melanoma in 1998 at 43. The marriage ended in divorce in 1966; Mr. Palance's 1987 marriage to Elaine Rogers also ended in divorce.
        Mr. Palance did some television as well, winning an Emmy Award for his performance in 1956 as a prizefighter in the ''Playhouse 90'' production of Rod Serling's ''Requiem for a Heavyweight.'' Jack Gould, reviewing it for The New York Times, said Mr. Palance gave a ''brilliant interpretation'' of a fighter who ''projected man's incoherence and bewilderment with a superb regard for details.''
        There were other sides to Jack Palance, and it took some aging to bring them out. Late in life, in 1996, he wrote ''Forest of Love,'' a prose poem about male sexuality and fears of loneliness. It was accompanied by his own pen-and-ink drawings, inspired in part by his feelings about his farm near Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He had been drawing and painting since the late 1950s, when he lived in Rome, but hardly anyone knew of that talent until ''Forest of Love'' was published.
        After the success of ''City Slickers,'' he had several television roles and parts in commercials that exploited his droll streak.
        Perhaps Mr. Palance's most memorable television appearance came when he received his Oscar in 1992. Striding to accept his statuette, he suddenly dropped to the stage and did a series of one-arm push-ups, not only showing his physical strength but also giving Billy Crystal, the host of the ceremony and his ''City Slickers'' co-star, a rich running joke for the rest of the evening.
        Correction:  November 15, 2006, Wednesday  A picture caption on Saturday with an obituary about the actor Jack Palance misstated the year he received an Emmy for his portrayal of a boxer in ''Requiem for a Heavyweight.'' Although the show was broadcast in 1956, Mr. Palance did not win the Emmy until 1957. The caption also misidentified the role played by Ed Wynn in the production. It was the boxer's trainer -- not his manager, a role that was played by Mr.Wynn's son, Keenan.
      