
        Benny Andrews, a figural expressionistic painter and teacher whose paintings, prints, drawings and collages drew on his African-American roots in Georgia, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said Nene Humphrey, his wife.
        Mr. Andrews was a vivid storyteller, using memories of his childhood in the segregated South to create narrative-based works that addressed human suffering and injustice. Over his lifetime, his social concerns ranged from the civil rights struggle and the antiwar movement to the Holocaust, poverty and the forced relocation of American Indians.
        His paintings and drawings do not fit easily into one art historical tradition. They sometimes resemble the anti-Modernist American Scene paintings, though with a lyrical, almost decorative stylization that draws upon Surrealism and Southern folk art. Some works border on caricature, but the formal narrative quality of his images also suggest his identification with Romare Bearden and Jacob Lawrence.
        Even in an era dominated by abstract art, he continuously exhibited his work in galleries and was the recipient of numerous awards and prizes, including a John Hay Whitney Fellowship in 1965 and a National Endowment for the Arts Fellowship in 1974. His paintings, prints and collages are in the collections of more than 30 museums, including those of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Studio Museum in Harlem, the High Museum of Art in Atlanta and the Art Institute of Chicago. The Ogden Museum of Southern Art in New Orleans holds a major body of his work, and his archives of material about black artists in the 1960s and '70s was given to the Studio Museum.
        Benny Andrews was born in Plainview, a farming community three miles from Madison, Ga., on Nov. 13, 1930, the son of sharecroppers. He was one of 10 children, who all worked in the cotton fields to help support the family, attending school only sporadically. In 1948 he became the first member of his family to graduate from high school.
        From 1950 to 1953, he served in the United States Air Force, and used the G.I. Bill to attend the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. He was one of very few black students there. He was trained as an abstract expressionist, but at night went to jazz clubs to draw. He also earned fees illustrating Polish polka record covers.
        In 1958, Mr. Andrews moved to New York, where his friends included the artists Red Grooms, Bob Thompson, Lester Johnson, Mimi Gross and Raphael Soyer. His first New York solo exhibition, at Forum Gallery in 1962, was reviewed favorably in The New York Times. It was during this period that he began to produce collages, which some critics consider his strongest work.
        Mr. Andrews was active in teaching, social causes and arts administration. From 1968 to 1997, he taught art at Queens College, a branch of the City University of New York. He established an art program in the state's prison system, which later served as a national model, and from 1982 to 1984 was the director of the visual arts program for the National Endowment for the Arts. Earlier this year he traveled to the Gulf Coast to work on an art project with children displaced by Hurricane Katrina.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children from an earlier marriage, Julia, Christopher and Thomas; and four grandchildren.
      