
        Isadore Barmash, a retired business news reporter for The New York Times who specialized in retailing and wrote a dozen books on trends, strategies and machinations in the ferociously competitive mercantile industry, died on Thursday at the Margaret Tietz hospice in Jamaica, Queens. He was 84.
        Mr. Barmash, who lived in Queens, died of complications of bladder cancer, said his wife, Sarah.
        In the genteelly cutthroat world of retail merchandising, where greed, secrets, backbiting and other skulduggery often lurk behind the facades of fashion, marketing and merger announcements, Mr. Barmash took his readers beyond the glitz of the selling floors and the closed doors of executive suites.
        Besides chronicling the fortunes and failings of big department stores like Macy's, Gimbel's, Saks and Bloomingdale's, discount chains like Korvettes and myriad small businesses, Mr. Barmash covered fashion trends, the explosion of credit cards, leveraged buyouts, executive fights, corporate missteps, bankruptcies and hidden biases that affected black, Hispanic and female aspirants for management.
        In a career that spanned more than four decades, Mr. Barmash worked for Fairchild Publications in the early 1950s, was managing editor of Women's Wear Daily from 1955 to 1963 and was a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune in 1963 and 1964. He joined The Times in 1965 and retired in 1991, but continued for a decade to write freelance articles and books on retailing.
        ''He was a legendary figure on the beat and one of the toughest and most gracious competitors I ever had,'' said Hank Gilman, deputy managing editor of Fortune magazine, who wrote for The Wall Street Journal when he knew Mr. Barmash in the early to mid-1980s.
        Floyd Norris, The Times's chief financial correspondent and a former colleague, recalled Mr. Barmash as the consummate retail reporter. ''He knew everything there was to know and everybody there was to know in the field,'' Mr. Norris said.
        In 26 years with The Times, Mr. Barmash wrote nearly 4,000 articles, many on subjects, like overexpansion and fashion blunders, that were unwelcome to department stores and corporate retailers, many of them major advertisers.
        One news break, he told Jack O'Dwyer's Newsletter in 1989, came when a company chairman asked him after he interviewed the company's president, ''So, what did he tell you?'' Mr. Barmash recalled: ''That sent me digging hard for the management split that gave me an entire series of exciting pieces.''
        One Barmash book, ''Welcome to Our Conglomerate -- You're Fired,'' published in 1971, was chosen by five book clubs, including the Book of the Month Club. Among his other titles were ''Great Business Disasters: Swindlers, Bunglers and Frauds in American History'' (1972); ''More Than They Bargained For: The Rise and Fall of Korvettes'' (1981); and ''A Not-So-Tender Offer: An Insider's Look at Mergers and Their Consequences'' (1995).
        Isadore Barmash was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 16, 1921. He graduated from West Philadelphia High School and studied journalism at the Charles Morris Price School in Philadelphia. During World War II, he served in the Army in the South Pacific, rising to staff sergeant.
        Besides his wife, the former Sarah Jasnoff, whom he married in 1948, Mr. Barmash is survived by three daughters, Elaine Charnow, of Jericho, N.Y., Marilyn Weinberger, of Livingston, N.J., and Pamela Barmash, of St. Louis; a son, Stanley, of Clayton, Del.; and four grandchildren.
        Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.
        Correction:  November 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Isadore Barmash, a retired business reporter for The New York Times, rendered incorrectly the name of a department store that he wrote about frequently. It was Gimbels, not Gimbel's. Gimbels, which closed in 1986, has been referred to correctly in The Times more than 500 times since 1980 and incorrectly more than 120 times; this is the first time the error has been corrected.
      