
        Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent who represented more than 100 productions across the United States, including the hit musical ''Wicked,'' died on Sunday at his family's home in Yonkers. He was 48.
        The cause was liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Fennell's personality was probably best reflected in two occupations -- carpenter and actor -- that preceded his career in show business publicity. His carpentry side was evident in an eye and a mind for detail as he balanced the daily demands of simultaneous productions out of an office crammed with thousands of pages of press releases, memos and scripts.
        Over a two-decade career, Mr. Fennell, a respected, genial straight-shooter, worked on productions with many major names in the theater, including Ian McKellen (''Richard III''), Carol Burnett (''Putting it Together''), Alan Bates (''Fortune's Fool'') and Christopher Walken (''James Joyce's The Dead''). In recent seasons, he also helped orchestrate the swirl of publicity surrounding Broadway appearances by Sean Combs (''A Raisin in the Sun'') and Julia Roberts (last season's ''Three Days of Rain'').
        The actor in Mr. Fennell was easier to see. He was sharp and often funny, willing to see absurdities in an industry built on fantasy and populated with mercurial characters. In addition to hits that included ''Angels in America,'' ''The Phantom of the Opera'' and ''The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,'' Mr. Fennell handled a few clunkers, but his good sense of humor was often able to soften the blow of failure for creative types. He also did a dead-on imitation of Mr. Walken.
        Mr. Fennell began his career in publicity at Boneau/Bryan Brown; as an original staff member, he even helped build its shelves. He left the company in 1996 to form the Publicity Office and worked steadily for a decade, on Broadway and off, and in regional theater. In addition to commercial theater, he handled productions for a series of major troupes, including the Royal National Theater and the Royal Shakespeare Company -- Mr. Fennell loved London -- and the Signature Theater and Playwrights Horizons in New York.
        Over the years, his clients included most of major players on Broadway. One regular client was David Stone, the producer of ''The Vagina Monologues,'' Eve Ensler's politically charged cult hit that went on to a successful Off Broadway run, and a producer of ''Wicked,'' which emerged from the 2003 season to become a Broadway blockbuster.
        Mr. Fennell is survived by his companion, Stacy Shane, and five sisters: Mary Ann Brendler of Monroe, N.Y.; Susan D'Agostino of Ardsley, N.Y.; Katherine Hoffnagle of Hastings, N.Y.; Elizabeth Frare of Valley Cottage, N.Y.; and Nancy Case of Greenwich, Conn.
        Correction:  November 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent, omitted a survivor. She is his mother, Katherine Fennell.
      