
        John Vaught, who coached the University of Mississippi to national football prominence and developed the star quarterbacks Charlie Conerly and Archie Manning, died Friday in Oxford, Miss. He was 96.
        His death was announced by the university.
        In 25 seasons as head coach, Vaught took Mississippi to 6 Southeastern Conference championships and 18 bowl games. He had a record of 190-61-12, and his teams were among the top five in the major national polls every season from 1959 to 1963. He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1979.
        Conerly, who was a longtime quarterback for the Giants, starred at tailback on Vaught's first squad, the 1947 SEC champions. Manning, later an outstanding quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, led Mississippi to a 1970 Sugar Bowl victory.
        Vaught coached Mississippi to an unbeaten and untied season in 1962, when his team went 9-0, then defeated Arkansas in the Sugar Bowl, a source of pride for a university scarred by the most violent episode of the civil rights movement.
        In the early fall of 1962, a mob of segregationists tried to block James Meredith from becoming the first black student at the university. The football team's nickname, the Rebels, embodied the Old South, but Vaught was enlisted by the Kennedy administration in a futile effort to avert bloodshed.
        ''I had a call from Washington to tell me Meredith was coming on campus that particular day, and they asked me if I would use my influence to quiet the group and keep them normal,'' Vaught recalled in a 2002 interview with The Oxford Eagle. ''I went over to the Student Union and got on the high steps and looked at the crowd that was there, and I didn't know anybody. They weren't dressed like they were students. They weren't our people. They were outsiders. They weren't going to listen to me, so I just moved on.''
        In the wake of violence that left two people dead and hundreds injured, Vaught's team was able to play only two games at its Oxford field -- now Vaught-Hemingway Stadium -- and its practice fields became campsites for soldiers. But Mississippi, led by quarterback Glynn Griffing, gained a No. 3 national ranking with its perfect season.
        John Howard Vaught, a native of Olney, Tex., starred at guard for Texas Christian in the early 1930's. Known for innovative offensive schemes featuring mobile quarterbacks, he was the head coach at Mississippi from 1947 to 1970, retired because of heart problems, then was called back for part of the 1973 season. He stayed on as athletic director for the next four years.
        He is survived by a sister, Nedra Strickland, of Glendale, Ariz., and a stepgranddaughter, Susan Vaught, of Tennessee.
        Vaught kept in touch with the football program into his final years. When David Cutcliffe, the Rebels' coach at the time, was hospitalized for exhaustion before the 1998 Independence Bowl against Texas Tech, the athletic director John Shafer told the 89-year-old Vaught that he might need him to take over. Shafer was jesting, but Vaught was prepared.
        As Shafer told The Sun Herald of Biloxi, Miss., last weekend: ''He said: 'John, it wouldn't be a problem. A lot of my coaches are still at Oxford.' If he made four phone calls, he'd have had four of his coaches. Right there. Ready to go.''
      