
        Peter Wensberg, a driving force in raising the Polaroid company's profile in the 1970s by broadening its distribution of the ''instant camera'' into department and discount stores while promoting it in memorable commercials, died Nov. 8 in Peterborough, N.H. He was 77 and lived in Greenfield, N.H.
        The cause was pulmonary disease, his son Ander said.
        Mr. Wensberg was Polaroid's senior vice president for marketing from 1971 to 1982. A key tool in his strategy for sales beyond the local camera shop was a series of television commercials that Mr. Wensberg insisted be both emotionally appealing and technically instructive. That concept was first used in 1972, when Polaroid introduced its SX-70 model, the instant color camera capable of taking successive pictures without a delay. Before the SX-70, the mom or dad taking snapshots at a birthday party had to wait 60 seconds before shooting again.
        With gentle persistence, Mr. Wensberg persuaded the great Shakespearean actor Laurence Olivier to do a commercial for the SX-70. ''Olivier agreed to do it as long as it wasn't shown in England,'' said Sam Yanes, a former company spokesman, ''because doing commercials didn't fit the image of the archetype classical actor.''
        Another notable series of commercials that Mr. Wensberg oversaw showed the actors James Garner and Mariette Hartley bantering as they demonstrated the One-Step Camera, which was even simpler to use than the SX-70 because it could focus automatically. ''They kind of tease each other about how simple it is,'' Mr. Yanes said. ''He says you just pick up the camera and shoot, and she says that's really two steps.''
        Although it was once one of the most popular possessions of the amateur photographer, the Polaroid instant camera has lost much of its appeal since the 1980s, overtaken by the digital camera.
        Peter Courtright Wensberg was born in Omaha on March 2, 1929. He graduated from the University of Washington in 1950. Besides his son Ander, of Darien, Conn., he is survived by his wife of 55 years, Andrea Craigue Wensberg; three other sons, Craig, of Milburn, N.J., and Peter and Erik, both of Center Strafford, N.H.; a brother, Erik, of Manhattan; a sister, Eleanor Pelcyger, of Los Angeles; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Wensberg left Polaroid in 1982, and joined Atari, the maker of computer games. In his later years, he was a consultant for several start-up technology companies.
        While still at Polaroid, Mr. Wensberg worked with the famous wilderness photographer Ansel Adams to establish the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona, an archive for Mr. Adams's work. In 1987, he wrote ''Land's Polaroid: A Company and the Man Who Invented It'' (Houghton Mifflin).
      