
        Frank Durkan, who as a lawyer, writer and political spokesman carved out a reputation as a fierce and clever defender of Irish nationalists, died on Thursday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 76.
        The cause was complications of a lung infection, his cousin Brian O'Dwyer said.
        Mr. Durkan was a scion of the O'Dwyer political dynasty, started by William O'Dwyer, who immigrated from County Mayo in Ireland in 1910 and became mayor of New York.
        Mr. Durkan hopscotched among the nation's courtrooms, fighting tenaciously for the interests and rights of Irish-Americans who came into conflict with the law because of their involvement in the tangled politics of Northern Ireland.
        One of his famous clients was George Harrison, the Irish Republican Army's main gunrunner in the United States for many years. During Mr. Harrison's trial in 1982, the prosecutor accused him of having run guns for the previous six months.
        Mr. Durkan rose to tell the judge that his client was deeply insulted, and said, ''Mr. Harrison has been running guns for the last 25 years at least.''
        The lawyer was able to convince the jury that the Central Intelligence Agency was behind the scheme. Mr. Harrison and his four co-defendants, who had been caught with about 50 machine guns and other weapons, were found not guilty.
        Mr. Durkan accomplished this legal legerdemain by eliciting the testimony of Ramsey Clark, the former attorney general, who said that the C.I.A. routinely denied involvement in activities they wanted to cover up. Mr. Durkan then persuaded the jury that the agency's denial in fact represented affirmation.
        In the 1981 case of Desmond Mackin, whom Britain wanted extradited to stand trial on charges of shooting one of its soldiers, Mr. Durkan succeeded by convincing a federal magistrate that the shooting was a political act. Mr. Mackin was not extradited because the extradition treaty between the United States and Britain had a political-exemption provision.
        Still another major case involved five Irish-Americans accused of a gunrunning operation between Mexico and Ireland in 1970. They were held in contempt of court for refusing to testify before a federal grand jury in Fort Worth, and were eventually freed when Justice William O. Douglas of the United States Supreme Court granted them bail in 1972.
        Mr. O'Dwyer said the challenge Mr. Durkan faced in that case was persuading his clients not to testify against one another.
        Mr. Durkan was chairman of Americans for a New Irish Agenda, which was established in 1992 as Irish-Americans for Clinton-Gore. The name was changed to attract Irish-Americans regardless of their political affiliation.
        Mr. Durkan wrote extensively on political issues in local Irish-American newspapers and was a supporter of the Irish Northern Aid committee. Some said the group funneled arms to the I.R.A., but he insisted the aid was humanitarian.
        Francis Patrick Durkan was born in Bohola in County Mayo, Ireland, in 1930, the second son of two teachers. He immigrated to New York in 1947 and went straight to Gracie Mansion, the residence of his uncle William O'Dwyer, the mayor of New York.
        He was put up overnight in grand style, but the next day another uncle, Paul O'Dwyer, a liberal activist and Democratic politician who later served as president of the City Council, took him to a building on 97th Street and arranged for him to work as a janitor.
        Mr. Durkan, who called this ''a harsh dose of reality in 24 hours,'' held jobs as a liquor store clerk and a racetrack parking attendant, among others. He graduated from Columbia in 1951 and from New York Law School in 1953, then served as a clerk for two years at O'Dwyer and Bernstein, the law firm where Paul O'Dwyer was the senior partner.
        In addition to his work on Irish matters, he specialized in negligence and malpractice cases. He also did some legal work for the Newspaper Guild of New York.
        Mr. Durkan, who lived in Rye, N.Y., is survived by his wife, the former Monica Goggin; two daughters, Ashling, of Memphis, and Mary Louise Martin, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and two grandsons.
        His involvement with things Irish extended to the presidency of the Mayo Football Club of New York, a Gaelic football team, as well as the presidency of the Irish Institute, which supports Irish organizations.
        When openly gay men and women were excluded from Manhattan's St. Patrick's Day parade, he refused to take part. In 2004, Newsday reported that he marched instead in a parade of gay men and women in Queens.
        ''The Constitution says everybody is equal,'' he said in an interview. ''I don't have to know much more.''
      