
        G. Gordon Strong, a former president and chairman of two newspaper chains and then publisher of The Oakland Tribune, died on Nov. 13 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 92 and lived in La Cañada, Calif.
        The cause was pneumonia, his son, George G. Strong Jr., said.
        Mr. Strong was president of the Brush-Moore chain, which owned 12 dailies and 2 weeklies in moderate-size cities, until 1967. That year, Brush-Moore was acquired by the Thomson chain, which among other papers owned The Times of London and The Globe and Mail in Toronto, and Mr. Strong was named Thomson's chairman, a post he held until retiring in 1977.
        Two days after his retirement, Mr. Strong received a call from the Combined Communications newspaper chain, asking him to become publisher of The Oakland Tribune. In 1979, Combined Communications merged with the Gannett Company, and Mr. Strong retired again.
        George Gordon Strong was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, on Dec. 28, 1913. Graduating from high school at 15, he earned two bachelor's degrees, in commerce and economics, at the University of British Columbia; a master's degree in business at Northwestern; and a law degree at the University of Toledo.
        Mr. Strong was teaching economics at Toledo in 1943 when the American Red Cross hired him as its finance director for the Mediterranean during World War II. When the war ended, Mr. Strong became assistant business manager of The Toledo Blade and over seven years, rose to business manager.
        In 1952, he was hired as general manager of Brush-Moore, which then owned seven papers, in Ohio and Maryland. He ran the chain for 15 years, rising to president and acquiring seven more papers. Brush-Moore was sold to the Thomson chain for $72 million and by the time Mr. Strong retired as Thomson's chairman, the chain owned more than 100 publications.
        Mr. Strong's wife of 66 years, the former Jean McDougall, died in 2001. Besides his son, who lives in La Cañada, he is survived by his daughter, Jeanne Cassayre of Napa, Calif.; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      