
        Paul Rigby, an award-winning cartoonist for The New York Post and The Daily News who first made his name on the editorial pages of Australian dailies, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Busselton, Australia. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, New York Post Wire Services reported.
        With jam-packed, detailed images and often caustic wit, Mr. Rigby offered his outrageous take on politics and the day's gossipy events on Page Six of The Post and on the editorial pages of both The Post and The Daily News. He worked at The Post from 1977 to 1984 and then, after eight years at The Daily News, returned to The Post until his retirement in 2000. One of his favorite targets was Mayor Edward I. Koch, with whom he sometimes socialized. Mr. Koch never complained, saying, ''It was Rigby's job to do what he did.''
        Mr. Rigby once estimated that, if his work at newspapers in Australia and England were included, he had drawn more than 15,000 cartoons in his career.
        Paul C. Rigby was born in Melbourne, Australia, on Oct. 25, 1924. He studied art at a technical school before dropping out at 15 to work as a commercial artist. In World War II, he served in the Royal Australian Air Force and saw action in North Africa and Europe.
        He is survived by his wife, Marlene, and five children, Nicole, Pia, Peter, Bay and Danielle.
        In 1948, Mr. Rigby was hired as an illustrator for the West Australian Newspapers chain. Four years later, he began drawing political cartoons for The Daily News in Perth. Those cartoons earned Mr. Rigby five Walkley Awards, Australia's highest journalism prize, from 1960 to 1969.
        By 1968, Mr. Murdoch, head of the media conglomerate the News Corporation, owned the London newspapers News of the World and The Sun. Mr. Murdoch summoned Mr. Rigby to London, where for the next six years he drew seven cartoons a week. A trademark of Mr. Rigby's work in England was a tiny depiction of a boy and his dog that was hidden in each cartoon, a challenge for readers who searched for the image.
        In 1976, Mr. Murdoch bought The New York Post and brought Mr. Rigby to New York as the paper's editorial cartoonist. In 1983 and again in 1984, Mr. Rigby won the New York Newspaper Guild's Page One Award for excellence in editorial cartooning.
        In the fall of 1984, Mr. Rigby was at the center of an unusual occurrence that highlighted the rivalry between New York's leading tabloids. After a disagreement with Mr. Murdoch, he moved to The Daily News. The Post then hired Mr. Rigby's son Bay to take over his father's job. On Nov. 20, 1984, the front pages of both papers gloated with identical headlines: ''Rigby's Here on Page Six!''
        Correction:  November 29, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about the editorial cartoonist Paul Rigby gave erroneous dates in some copies for the year he started to work for The New York Post and for the year Rupert Murdoch bought The Post. Mr. Rigby started at The Post in 1977, not 1975. Mr. Murdoch bought the newspaper in 1976, not 1975.
        A picture caption with the obituary referred incorrectly to a vehicle shown in a Rigby cartoon about a trade war between the United States and Japan. It was a car mounted with weapons, not a tank.
      