
        Willie Pep, one of boxing's pre-eminent figures and a longtime featherweight champion remembered most for his four title bouts against Sandy Saddler, died Thursday. He was 84.
        He had been living in an Alzheimer's disease unit at the Haven Health Center in Rocky Hill, Conn., for the past six years, said Ed Brophy, the executive director of the International Boxing Hall of Fame, who confirmed Pep's death.
        Known as Will o' the Wisp for outfoxing his opponents with superior speed and footwork, Pep won 230 bouts, lost 11 and fought one draw in a career that spanned three decades.
        Pep won the featherweight title with a decision against Chalky Wright on November 1942, becoming the youngest champion ever in that division. He held the crown until he was knocked out by Saddler in October 1948, 21 months after Pep was severely injured in a plane crash. Pep regained the title by decision four months later, but Saddler won it back in September 1950 and then defeated Pep again in September 1951.
        Although he knocked out 65 opponents, Pep was known primarily for his supreme craftsmanship in the ring. The broadcaster Don Dunphy, called the Voice of Boxing, cited Pep as the best boxer he ever saw, remarking once, ''He was so clever, he could come up to an opponent from behind.''
        Saddler did not let his often-brutal rivalry with Pep stand in the way of admiration for him. He once told the sportswriter Stanley Frank how in Pep's nontitle rematch with Wright, ''Chalky cocked his right to throw a bomb, and Pep ducked through his legs and got away.''
        Pep, usually fighting at about 125 pounds, was so quick, so hard to hit, that he once won a round in which he deliberately did not land a single punch to see if he could impress the judges solely with his ring smarts. It happened on July 25, 1946, in Minneapolis, in the third round of a nontitle bout against Jackie Graves that Pep won by knockout in the eighth.
        ''I jabbed him a few times, but most of the round, I was bobbing and weaving and making him miss, and he missed a hundred punches, I guess, making him look so bad they gave me the round,'' Pep told Peter Heller in an interview for ''In This Corner.''
        Pep was born Guglielmo Papaleo on Sept. 19, 1922, in Middletown, Conn., near Hartford. After boxing as an amateur for two and a half years, Pep turned pro in July 1940.
        He became the featherweight champion with a 15-round unanimous decision against Wright at Madison Square Garden on Nov. 20, 1942, his 54th victory without a defeat. He remained unbeaten until losing a decision to Sammy Angott, the former lightweight titleholder, on March 19, 1943, in a nontitle fight, his 64th bout.
        Pep served in the Navy and the Army during World War II.
        In January 1947, he sustained a broken leg, cracked vertebrae and a chest injury in the crash of a chartered plane near Bridgeton, N.J., during a snowstorm. But he returned to the ring five months later.
        Pep had been the featherweight champion for nearly six years when he faced Saddler for the first time, on Oct. 29, 1948, at the Garden. At 5 feet 5 inches, Pep gave away three inches to Saddler, who was a strong puncher, and Pep appeared tentative, showing little of the customary spring in his legs. Saddler floored Pep twice in the third round, then knocked him out in the fourth with a left hook to the jaw. It was the second defeat for Pep, who had won 134 bouts, losing only to Angott and fighting a draw with Jimmy McAllister.
        Pep regained the title in a unanimous decision at the Garden on Feb. 11, 1949, in what James Dawson of The New York Times called ''15 rounds of savage fighting.'' Pep threw 37 successive jabs in the first round. But he was cut around his eyes as the fight progressed and was almost felled by Saddler in the 10th and 14th rounds before rallying in the 15th.
        In their third bout, before a crowd of nearly 39,000 at Yankee Stadium on Sept. 8, 1950, Saddler knocked Pep down in the third round. But Pep was winning on the officials' cards when he dislocated his left shoulder in the seventh round during a clinch. He did not come out for the next round, giving Saddler the championship once more.
        The fourth bout, at the Polo Grounds on Sept. 26, 1951, was one of the dirtiest in memory. Pep and Saddler virtually wrestled with each other at times, and at one point the referee, Ray Miller, was sent tumbling to the canvas. The fight was essentially even when Pep quit after the ninth round, citing a closed right eye that had been bloodied. The New York State Athletic Commission revoked Pep's license for 17 months and suspended Saddler for two months because of their fouling.
        Pep never fought for a championship again. He retired in 1959, then tried a comeback in 1965 at age 42. His last bout was a six-round decision he lost to Calvin Woodland on March 16, 1966, in Richmond, Va.
        Pep later worked as a referee and a boxing official for the state of Connecticut, and he was a deputy sheriff in the Hartford area.
        His survivors included his wife Barbara; two daughters, Mary and Melissa; and two sons, William and Michael.
        By the mid-1950s, Pep was essentially fighting for paydays, his best years behind him, but he continued to show flashes of greatness.
        Red Smith, the sports columnist of The Times, told of the day in 1956 when he saw Pep ''boxing one Kid Campeche in a Tampa armory, probably a $300 fight for the old champion.''
        ''Willie pitched a 10-round no-hitter, sticking and moving, spinning, ducking, smothering every earnest, floundering attack,'' Smith wrote. ''The few hundred in the hall reveled in the perfection of the performance. Willie left Campeche unhurt but frustrated almost to the point of tears.
        '' 'It's like trying to stamp out a grass fire!' the Kid said.''
      