
        Rogério Duprat, the producer and arranger behind the important albums of the late-1960s Tropicália movement in Brazilian music, died on Oct. 25 in São Paolo. He was 74.
        The death was announced by his family to the newspaper Folha de São Paolo. He had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease and bladder cancer, they said.
        Mr. Duprat has widely been considered the Brazilian equivalent of George Martin, the Beatles' producer. But his moment of contact with Tropicália -- which celebrated the combinations and contradictions of modern Brazilian culture, the collision of the old and the futuristic, the elegant and the vulgar -- started at the point of aesthetic sophistication that took Mr. Martin years to achieve. The landmark albums he worked on in only two years, 1967 and 1968, include ''Tropicália, Ou Panis et Circensis,'' a sampler of songs by the movement's principal figures; and the self-titled albums by Caetano Veloso, Gal Costa, Gilberto Gil, Nara Leão and the group Os Mutantes.
        Mr. Duprat scaffolded songs with brilliant and bizarre arrangements, inspired partly by the imaginative clutter in Beatles' tracks like ''Strawberry Fields Forever.'' In them, one heard the elegant hush of bossa nova bumping up against blaring carnival brass bands; the ritual religious drums of Afro-Brazilian music against swanky string arrangements after the style of a Frank Sinatra record; crowd noises, sirens, cha-cha-cha rhythm, electric guitar riffs and the percussive twang of the berimbau. With his training in the conservatory and in the post-Cagean musical vanguard, Mr. Duprat helped to crystallize the musical aspect of the multimedia Tropicália movement.
        Born in Rio de Janeiro, Mr. Duprat moved to São Paolo in the 1950s, joining the Orquestra Sinfônica Municipal and the Orquestra de Câmara de São Paolo as a cellist. He studied composition in the early 1960s with Pierre Boulez in France and Karlheinz Stockhausen in Germany.
        He moved back to Brazil, becoming part of a group of eight composers who called their movement Musica Nova; in 1963 it issued a manifesto calling for ''internationalist contemporaneity'' in Brazilian culture, despite the country's conditions of ''economic underdevelopment, retrograde agrarian structure and semicolonial subordination.''
        Mr. Duprat met Mr. Gil in 1967, introduced by the composer Julio Medaglia. He arranged Mr. Gil's song ''Domingo No Parque'' for a nationally televised popular-song competition; the song won second place, and Mr. Duprat soon found himself indispensable to the musicians of Tropicália.
        He also made an album under his own name in 1968, ''A Banda Tropicalista do Duprat.'' After the demise of the Tropicália movement -- musically it sputtered out with the imprisonment of Mr. Veloso and Mr. Gil by the Brazilian military police in late 1968 -- Mr. Duprat worked only sporadically in recording studios, most notably for Mr. Veloso's 1972 album ''Araçá Azul.''
        In the 1970s and '80s, Mr. Duprat built his own studio and wrote jingles and film soundtracks. Because of hearing loss, he all but stopped working in music after the mid-'80s and lived on a farm outside São Paolo. In the 1990s, he resurfaced as an arranger for songs by the pop singers Lulu Santos and Rita Lee.
        Mr. Duprat is survived by his wife, Lali; his sons, Roatâ and Ruda; and his daughter, Rai.
        Correction:  November 4, 2006, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Rogério Duprat, the producer and arranger behind important albums of the late 1960s Tropicália movement in Brazilian music, misspelled the name of the Brazilian city where he died. It is São Paulo, not São Paolo.
      