
        Bernard Rimland, who overturned conventional theories about the origin of autism in the 1960s and later forced scientists and policymakers to consider alternative causes and treatments, died last Tuesday in El Cajon, Calif., near his home in San Diego. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of prostate cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
        Dr. Rimland's interest in autism, the puzzling social-skills disorder, and his work on behalf of families touched by it grew out of his intuition as an experimental psychologist and his experience as a father.
        When his young son Mark received a diagnosis of autism, doctors generally blamed the disorder on cold, distant mothering. In his book ''Infantile Autism: The Syndrome and Its Implications for a Neural Theory of Behavior,'' Dr. Rimland demolished the cold-mother theory by presenting lucid evidence that the disorder was rooted in biology.
        ''He was tremendously important to the field, in that he reoriented research from a focus on the parents to a focus on the brain,'' Dr. Fred R. Volkmar, director of the Child Study Center at Yale, said. ''He also developed the first checklist for diagnosing autism. He was a pathfinder and tireless advocate for families dealing with autism.''
        Early on, his judgment was prescient. He was among the first scientists to recognize that a brand of systematic rewards and punishments, pioneered the University of California psychologist O. Ivar Lovaas, could lead to significant improvements in autistic children. The treatment is widely used today.
        Dr. Rimland also quickly saw through the spurious claims of a therapy called ''facilitated communication,'' in which therapists claimed to help channel the thoughts of autistic children and heal them.
        He wrote articles, pushed for more research and founded advocacy organizations, including what is now the Autism Society of America, in Bethesda, Md., and the Autism Research Institute in San Diego, where he was director.
        In 1985, after retiring from his day job as a Navy researcher, Dr. Rimland's research and ideas made him perhaps more prominent and took him outside the scientific mainstream. He published papers on the effects of high doses of vitamin B6 for autistic children. Tens of thousands of parents have said the vitamins helped their children, but most academic researchers have been skeptical.
        They have been equally unmoved by Dr. Rimland's argument that childhood vaccines with trace amounts of mercury are a major cause of autism. Yet parents, journalists and patients' advocates have rallied against the vaccines and forced changes in legislation in some states, altering the shots.
        ''He was an iconoclast, and people like that are willing to buck the tide,'' said Dr. Robert L. Hendren, executive director of the MIND Institute at the University of California, Davis.
        Even if people in traditional medicine say Dr. Rimland did not stick to the evidence, Dr. Hendren added, ''he was the kind of person who opened up new ideas and challenged people's thinking, and the field needs people like that.''
        Bernard Rimland was born on Nov. 15, 1928, in Cleveland. He moved with his parents and his sister, Rose, to the San Diego area when he was 12. He earned a bachelor's in experimental psychology from San Diego State University in 1950, and a master's from the university in 1951.
        That year, he married Gloria Alf, who survives. Also surviving are two sons, Mark and Paul; a daughter, Helen Landalf; and two grandchildren.
        After completing a doctorate at Pennsylvania State University in 1954, with a specialty in psychometrics, the measurement of mental skills traits, Dr. Rimland returned to San Diego to work as a Navy researcher.
        Mark was the Rimlands' firstborn, and his implacable nature was the germ and driving force for what became a lifelong mission for both parents. About one in 170 children born in the United States is given a diagnosis of autism or related disorders.
        ''He was a very inspiring person for us who saw a good hope for our children,'' says a message on the Autism Research Institute Web site signed by Mesfin Assefa of Ethiopia. ''Though he passed, his inspiration and dedication will stay with us until the problem is solved.''
      