
        David Kritchevsky, a biochemist and expert in human nutrition who made groundbreaking studies of cholesterol and dietary fats and who pushed for balanced approaches to assessing health risks from foods, died on Nov. 20 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86.
        His death was confirmed by a spokesman for the Wistar Institute, an independent center for biomedical research in Philadelphia with which he had been affiliated since 1957.
        Dr. Kritchevsky was interested in the benefits of eating dietary fiber, the effects of saturated and unsaturated fats, and the role of fats in promoting cancers and heart disease. In the late 1950s, he published an early and influential textbook, ''Cholesterol,'' which explored the workings of that fatty substance, found in cells and the bloodstream and considered a significant factor in coronary disease.
        The book explained the possible damaging effects of high cholesterol but also cited its ''role in normal function, as something essential to life, and not a foreign or toxic substance,'' said David M. Klurfeld, national program leader for human nutrition at the Department of Agriculture.
        Earlier, Dr. Kritchevsky and others had studied the effects of saturated and unsaturated fats in promoting heart disease. By altering the diets of rabbits in the laboratory, they were able to demonstrate that a diet high in saturated fat, commonly found in meat and dairy products, contributed to lesions in blood vessels and the aorta, signs of a preliminary stage of such disease.
        But Dr. Kritchevsky argued throughout his career that smoking, lack of exercise, overeating and other behaviors were too often discounted and could be at least as harmful to health as poor nutrition.
        Last year he described the New York City health department's request that restaurants stop using trans fats, found in commercially baked and fried foods, as a ''panic du jour.'' He suggested that the effort could lead to a wider use of saturated fats as a substitute, with no lessening of the health risks.
        And in the 1980s, when some health experts advised limiting the consumption of eggs because of their cholesterol content, he championed the egg as a useful source of protein and polyunsaturated fat -- a fat that is also found in grains and fish and that has health advantages.
        David Kritchevsky was born in Kharkov, Ukraine. He attended the University of Chicago and earned his doctorate in organic chemistry from Northwestern University in 1948.
        From 1975 to 1991, he served as associate director of the Wistar Institute. He also taught at the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a professor of biochemistry in the School of Veterinary Medicine, and at the Medical College of Pennsylvania. He was president of the American Society for Nutrition in 1979.
        Dr. Kritchevsky is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Evelyn Sholtes. They lived in Bryn Mawr.
        He is survived as well by a son, Stephen, of Winston-Salem, N.C.; two daughters, Barbara Kritchevsky of Memphis and Janice Sojka of West Lafayette, Ind.; and six grandchildren.
      