
        Smith Hempstone, a journalist who became United States ambassador to Kenya and pushed so forcefully for democracy in that country that its one-party government denounced him as a racist and demanded his recall, died on Nov. 19 in Bethesda, Md. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Kathaleen, said.
        When international pressures forced Kenya to hold multiparty elections in 1991, Mr. Hempstone's long, loud campaign for a free vote was frequently cited as an impetus. Beyond enduring verbal abuse, he faced threats to his life twice in his campaign, he wrote in ''Rogue Ambassador: An African Memoir'' (1997).
        Mr. Hempstone's circuitous route to ambassador included working as a correspondent in Kenya in its war for independence; as a novelist; as editor of The Washington Star editorial page; as a syndicated columnist; and as executive editor and editor in chief of The Washington Times.
        While sitting on a Maine beach in 1987, the idea that he would be a fine ambassador to Kenya popped into his mind. He approached George H. W. Bush before his election the next year and said he would like the post. President Bush remembered.
        Bashfulness was never a problem for Mr. Hempstone. On his honeymoon in Venice in 1954, he knocked on the door of a hotel suite occupied by Ernest Hemingway, who was only too pleased to converse with the stranger.
        ''Been to Africa?'' Hemingway asked, in Mr. Hempstone's recollection. ''You ought to go. Africa's man's country -- fish, hunt, write. The best.''
        Many have suggested that Mr. Hempstone found a role model in Hemingway in more than following his advice about Africa.
        Beyond commonalities like girth, a white beard and a taste for tobacco and good liquor, Mr. Hempstone affected a Hemingwayesque style, reflected by the .38-caliber pistol he packed.
        Mr. Hempstone was ambassador from 1989 to 1993, a time when Washington was shifting its African policy. Formerly, the United States had supported African governments that opposed Communism. With the demise of Communism, Washington began pushing countries to increase democracy and human rights.
        Mr. Hempstone fought to end the monopoly on power held by President Daniel arap Moi, who in 1982 banned all parties but his. Mr. Hempstone threatened to have aid cut unless democracy blossomed, castigated economic corruption, helped a leading dissident flee and invited government opponents to Embassy parties.
        ''We don't just export Coca-Cola and blue jeans,'' he said. ''We export democracy.''
        Nairobi replied that Mr. Hempstone did not appreciate that open elections would cause the country to break into constituent tribal groups. It accused him of pushing drugs and giving money and liquor to children to protest the government, among other activities.
        The official newspaper ran front-page cartoons depicting him as a fat pig. One headline said, ''Shut up, Mr. Ambassador.''
        Beyond carrying the gun in case of assassination attempts, Mr. Hempstone told National Public Radio that he learned to take canapés from the back of the tray at diplomatic receptions on the theory that those would be less likely to be poisoned.
        His dream of multiparty elections was realized in late 1992, shortly before his departure. Mr. Moi won with 36 percent of the vote, as other parties split the rest. After winning again in 1997, Mr. Moi retired in 2002. A democratically elected opponent of his party succeeded him.
        Smith Hempstone Jr. was born on Feb. 1, 1929, in Washington, where his maternal grandfather and great-grandfather had been part-owners of The Star. He graduated from the University of the South and served in the Marines in Korea. He went to Africa as a fellow of the Institute of World Affairs.
        After joining The Chicago Daily News as Africa correspondent, he wrote two books on Africa, won a Nieman fellowship to Harvard, wrote two novels and joined The Star as a foreign correspondent. He next wrote a syndicated column with a conservative bent, ''Our Times,'' that 90 newspapers published.
        From 1982 to 1985, he was a pugnacious top editor at The Washington Times.
        Surviving are his wife of 52 years, the former Kathaleen Fishback; his daughter, Hope, of Baltimore; and a grandson.
        In their obituaries, African newspapers recalled Mr. Hempstone's ''bulldozer diplomacy.'' His predecessor as ambassador to Kenya, Elinor Constable, characterized his support of dissidents and his consequent isolation by his host government as ''very unprofessional'' in a State Department oral history interview in 1998.
        ''He often acts more like a swashbuckling novelist than a diplomat,'' an article in The Washington Post said in 1993.
        In 1990, Mr. Hempstone had already responded to similar criticism in an article in The New York Times. ''I'm not a diplomat,'' he said. The article noted that he chuckled.
        Correction:  December 1, 2006, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Smith Hempstone, former ambassador to Kenya, misidentified the organization that originally sent him to Africa. It was the Institute of Current World Affairs, currently based in Hanover, N.H., not the Institute of World Affairs, a separate organization based in Washington.
      