
        Silvio Varviso, a Swiss conductor who had a prominent international career without seeking stardom, died Wednesday in Antwerp, Belgium. He was 82 and lived in Basel, Switzerland.
        He died after a short illness, according to the Vlaamse Opera in Antwerp, where he was principal guest conductor for 15 years.
        Mr. Varviso conducted, with elegant understatement, in the major opera houses of the world. He was a cultivated and knowledgeable musician with broad experience in works old and new -- from Handel's ''Giulio Cesare'' to the world premiere of Heinrich Sutermeister's ''Die Schwarze Spinne.'' His reputation with musicians tended to outstrip his fame beyond the theater walls, though he recorded extensively, including Rossini's ''Italiana in Algeri'' and ''Barber of Seville'' with Teresa Berganza and Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' with Mario del Monaco. He was music director of the Paris Opera from 1973 to 1985.
        He made the first of frequent guest appearances at the Metropolitan Opera in 1961, when his debut with ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' was overshadowed: it was also the sensational debut of the soprano Joan Sutherland. After a 1964 ''Aida,'' though, Howard Klein of The New York Times waxed lyrical in a rave review about his ''taste, excitement and brilliant control,'' and said that the singing ''was not solo work but was fused together to produce a dramatic fabric of burning intensity.'' It is quite an achievement for a conductor to outshine a cast that includes Birgit Nilsson, Franco Corelli, Irene Dalis, Cornell MacNeil, Justino Diaz and Ezio Flagello.
        Silvio Varviso was born on Feb. 26, 1924, in Zurich. His father was a voice teacher, but Mr. Varviso studied everything but voice: at the Zurich Conservatory, he took piano, violin, clarinet, trumpet and percussion. After graduating, he continued his conducting studies in Vienna.
        He made his debut at 20, leading Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' in St. Gallen, Switzerland, and from 1950 to 1962 was music and artistic director in Basel. He was later music director at houses including the Royal Opera in Stockholm and the opera in Stuttgart, Germany.
        Respected for his Wagner, praised for his unaffected Puccini, he also had some significant contemporary works in his arsenal: he led the American premiere of Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and the German-language premiere of Prokofiev's ''Fiery Angel.''
        He tried to avoid the limelight, living on the Côte d'Azur and then in Basel, his base when away from Belgium. It was in Belgium, on Sept. 17 and 19, that he conducted his final performances: Puccini's ''Tosca.''
        A widower, he leaves no immediate survivors.
      