
        Kenneth M. Taylor, an Army Air Corps pilot who joined with a fellow flier to become the first two American pilots aloft during the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and the first to shoot down Japanese planes, died Nov. 25 in Tucson. He was 86.
        The cause was a strangulated hernia, said his daughter, Tina Hartley.
        Lieutenant Taylor and the other pilot, Lt. George S. Welch, each received the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army's highest award for valor after the Medal of Honor, for ''extraordinary heroism'' on the morning of Sunday, Dec. 7, 1941.
        The pilots, in the 47th Pursuit Squadron, had gone to an officers' party at the Army's Wheeler Field in Oahu, Hawaii, that ran to early Sunday. Around 8 a.m., they were awakened in their quarters by explosions as Japanese planes bombed Battleship Row and nearby airfields.
        Lieutenant Taylor threw on his tuxedo pants from the party, and the two officers dashed into his Buick and sped 10 miles to Haleiwa airfield, where their planes were parked. Within minutes, they were in the skies in their P-40 fighters, blazing away with .30-caliber guns.
        Each man went up twice, Lieutenant Taylor downing two planes and Lieutenant Welch four. When a bullet pierced the canopy of Lieutenant Taylor's plane, it went through his arm and sent shrapnel into his leg.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1943, he told how his fighter was over Oahu when he saw enemy planes 1,000 feet below, ''circling and strafing without a thought to possible opposition.'' ''Diving fast,'' he said, ''I almost overshot the target.''
        On the 13th anniversary of the attack, the Air Force said it could not determine whether it was Lieutenant Taylor or Lieutenant Welch who first downed a Japanese plane. ''Each of them in his first attack shot down an enemy bomber, so the difference in time would have been but a few seconds in any case,'' the Air Force said.
        Writing in the publication Air Power History last year, Lt. Col. George R. Farfour of the Air Force said the pilots' dogfights diverted the Japanese from plans to destroy Haleiwa after strafing that strip.
        The pilots' exploits were dramatized in the films ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' (1970) and ''Pearl Harbor'' (2001).
        Mr. Taylor was born in Enid, Okla. He joined the military after two years at the University of Oklahoma. After flying in the Pacific in World War II, he retired as an Air Force colonel in 1967 and was a brigadier general in the Alaska Air National Guard.
        Mr. Welch, an ''ace'' in the Pacific campaign, became chief test pilot for North American Aviation. He died in October 1954, when a plane he was testing crashed in the Antelope Valley in California.
        Mr. Taylor had homes in Anchorage and Tucson. In addition to his daughter, of Mercer Island, Wash., he is survived by his wife, Flora; a son, Kenneth Jr., of Green Valley, Ariz.; and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Taylor said he had been confident on that December morning 65 years ago today. ''I believed I was a better-trained pilot than the enemy,'' he told Colonel Farfour. ''I had good equipment, and I was proud of it.''
      