
        Robert Rosenblum, an influential and irreverent art historian and museum curator known for his research on subjects ranging from Picasso to images of dogs, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 79.
        He died from complications of colon cancer, said his wife, the artist Jane Kaplowitz.
        For half a century, Mr. Rosenblum taught in the undergraduate and graduate art history divisions at New York University, where he occupied an endowed chair as professor of Modern European art starting in 1976. For the last decade he also served as curator of 20th-century art at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. Despite his illness, diagnosed in 2004, he continued his regimen of teaching, writing and lecturing until a few weeks ago.
        Equipped with a traditional art historian's education, including a Ph.D. earned at the Institute of Fine Art at N.Y.U. in 1956, Mr. Rosenblum initially made his mark in the history of 18th- and 19th-century French art. In 1974 he was one of the organizers of the landmark show ''French Painting, 1774-1830: The Age of Revolution'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Perhaps his most important book was ''Transformations in Late 18th-Century Art'' (1967), in which he argued that Modernism did not begin with the turn of the 20th century, as formalist critics saw it, but was a far more complex phenomenon that went back to 18th-century France, when attempts were first made to refresh Western visual culture. In 2003, the French government made Mr. Rosenblum a chevalier of the Legion of Honor for his scholarly devotion to that country's art. But by then he had long since turned away from viewing the birth of Modern art as a strictly French phenomenon. On visits abroad, he had rediscovered the work of long-neglected artists like the German painter Caspar David Friedrich (1774-1840) and the Danish artist Vilhelm Hammershoi (1864-1916).
        ''Thanks to Bob, art history has become a smorgasbord, so to speak, rather than the table d'hôte of strictly Gallic dishes it had been for generations,'' Kenneth Silver, chairman of the undergraduate department of art history at N.Y.U., said at a recent symposium honoring him.
        Still, his espousal of artists excluded from the art world A-list sometimes raised eyebrows. One controversial example was a 2001 exhibition at the Guggenheim devoted to the painter Norman Rockwell.
        ''Getting Rockwell into the Guggenheim was almost a Dada act, the crowning achievement of Rosenblumian contrariness -- dare I call it perversity?'' Mr. Silver said. Approaching art with an open mind, Mr. Rosenblum reveled in what he called ''the messy mix'' of high and low. That approach was also evident in the Guggenheim's ''1900: Art at the Crossroads'' in 2000, an exhibition intended to convey a broad sense of what was being painted throughout the world when the West was on the cusp of Modernism.
        The museum displayed 150 paintings from the 1900 World's Fair in Paris with examples from Japan, the Americas, Africa and Australia, as well as works by onetime Salon idols like Adolphe-William Bouguereau and Lawrence Alma-Tadema and recognized founders of Modernism like Cézanne, Picasso and Kandinsky. ''I wanted to reshuffle the deck and re-examine our image of the period,'' Mr. Rosenblum said at the time.
        Reaction was mixed. ''It is hard to remember the last time so many bad pictures were in one place at one time, unless you consider eBay a place,'' Michael Kimmelman wrote in a cautiously positive review of the show in The New York Times. Citing the inclusion of such little-known artists as Eugene Jansson and Eugène Carrière, Mr. Kimmelman added, ''The show provides compensatory rewards for its schlock quotient.''
        A popular teacher who generally lectured without notes, Mr. Rosenblum received a Distinguished Teaching Award from N.Y.U. in 2005. He also taught at Yale and Princeton, and in 1972 was Slade professor of fine art at Oxford University.
        Born on July 24, 1927, in New York City to Abraham Rosenblum, a dentist, and his wife, Lily, he graduated from Queens College in 1948 and earned his master's in art history at Yale in 1950 before doing his doctoral work at N.Y.U. Besides Ms. Kaplowitz, whom he married in 1978, he is survived by their two children: Sophie, of Houston, and Theodore, of New York City.
        Among his close associates, Mr. Rosenblum was as well known for his eccentricities as his scholarship. ''He could discuss some subtle point in Picasso's development and then turn to a topic like airline menus, in which he had a great interest,'' said the art dealer Angela Westwater, a family friend.
        In his Village home, important paintings shared space with the flea-market finds in which he delighted. For a while, a huge photograph of Archie, the beloved family bulldog, hung above the fireplace.
        In fact, Mr. Rosenblum's fondness for Archie, who predeceased him, played directly into his art interests, leading to his book ''The Dog in Art From Rococo to Post-Modernism'' (1988) and his later involvement with ''Best in Show,'' a current traveling exhibition about dogs.
      