
        Mario Llerena, a Cuban intellectual who was an early representative of Fidel Castro in the United States but who broke with him before he took power because of Mr. Castro's shift toward Communism, died Sunday in Miami. He was 93.
        His daughter, Stella Portada, said yesterday that he had died of natural causes at an assisted living center in Miami after recovering from a bout of pneumonia.
        Mr. Llerena met Mr. Castro in Mexico in the mid-1950s as Mr. Castro was preparing for an invasion of Cuba to overthrow the military dictator Fulgencio Batista. At Mr. Castro's request, Mr. Llerena put into writing the democratic ideals that underpinned the Castro movement in the early days of the uprising. The document, ''Nuestra Raz칩n'' (''Our Reason''), was published in Mexico.
        It was in 1957, a few months after Mr. Castro was widely believed to have been killed in the invasion, that Mr. Llerena played a pivotal role in skirting General Batista's attempt to censor any news about it.
        After The New York Times published three articles by the correspondent Herbert L. Matthews revealing that Mr. Castro was alive and building a rebel force in the mountains of Cuba, Mr. Llerena, in New York, made photocopies and mailed them to more than 3,000 people listed in the Havana Social Registry.
        Fluent in English and holding a doctorate in philosophy and letters from the University of Havana, Mr. Llerena was made chairman of the New York arm of the July 26 Movement, the name Mr. Castro gave to his insurrection. In Cuba, Mr. Llerena was a leader of the Committee for Cultural Freedom, a group opposed to the censorship and harsh policies of the Batista government.
        As Mr. Castro gained stature in Cuba and the United States, Mr. Llerena traveled widely, arguing that the United States ought to halt shipments of arms to the government.
        In October 1957 he went to Miami as part of a team of Cubans representing Mr. Castro to sign a pact of cooperation with several other groups opposed to General Batista. But the action infuriated Mr. Castro, who felt marginalized by the power-sharing arrangement. He pulled out of the group and accused Mr. Llerena of proceeding without having consulted him.
        Before the Castro forces entered Havana in triumph on Jan. 1, 1959, Mr. Llerena, who held more moderate views, resigned from the rebel movement, citing differences in ideology. He worked in Cuba as a political journalist, writing critically of Mr. Castro's drift toward Communism, and flew into exile in New York in April 1960.
        Rafael Mario Ram칩n Llerena was born in Placetas, in the central Cuban province of Las Villas, on March 5, 1913. He studied at the Princeton Theological Seminary to become a Presbyterian minister but changed his mind and turned to writing. Later he taught Spanish at Duke University before returning to Cuba.
        He is survived by his wife, Noemi G치lvez, whom he married in 1966. His first marriage, in 1946, to Laura Hern치ndez, ended in divorce. Besides their daughter Stella, they had a son, Mario, who also survives, as do two sisters, Maria Velasquez of North Bergen, N.J., and Nora Gil, of Weehawken, N.J.; a brother, Pablo, also of North Bergen; and four grandchildren.
        After splitting with Mr. Castro, Mr. Llerena became an important figure among Cuban exiles. In 1978 he published ''The Unsuspected Revolution: The Birth and Rise of Castroism,'' in which he accused Mr. Castro of deceiving many followers when he adopted Communism. He also published several collections of his journalistic essays about the revolution.
      