
        Kenny Davern, a radically traditional jazz clarinetist and soprano saxophonist whose liquid tones linked him to the classical sound of New Orleans but who could also play free jazz, died on Tuesday at his home in Sandia Park, N.M. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Elsa, said.
        A professional on several instruments since his teens, Mr. Davern became nationally known in the 1970s when, with the pianist Dick Wellstood and another soprano saxophonist, Bob Wilber, he formed the Soprano Summit. The band toured the world and recorded several well-received albums.
        When the band reunited in the 1990s, Mr. Davern had returned almost exclusively to the clarinet, on which he was known for hitting notes far above the instrument's normal range.
        ''You could pick Kenny out on a record after two or three notes --like a hot knife going through butter,'' said Warren Vaché, a trumpeter and longtime friend. ''His playing was edgy and cutting and virile and, at the same time, passionate and tender..''
        His style, Mr. Vaché said, ''was derived from Dixieland but weaved in everything else.''
        John Kenneth Davern was born on Jan. 7, 1935, in Huntington, N.Y., the son of John and Josephine Davern.
        By the age of 11, Kenny Davern was playing a clarinet that his mother had bought for $35. Living with his grandparents in Woodhaven, Queens, after the breakup of his parents' marriage, he played in the school band and in a Dixieland band with friends from the neighborhood.
        At 16, Mr. Davern got his first big break when the trumpeter Henry (Red) Allen called him for a clarinet gig at an American Legion Hall in Queens. ''I have no idea how he came to phone me,'' he recalled in a profile written by Brian Peerless, a British jazz impresario.
        Within two years Mr. Davern was on the road in the saxophone section of Ralph Flanagan's big band. He then auditioned for Jack Teagarden's Dixieland band and afterward, Mr. Davern recalled, Mr. Teagarden asked, ''Kenny, where've you been all my life?''
        In 1954, still a teenager, Mr. Davern made his recording debut with Mr. Teagarden. Four years later he recorded his first album under his own name, ''In the Gloryland,''on the Elektra label. He later made many albums for the Concord, Chiaroscuro and Arbors labels.
        In the mid-1950s and '60s, enthralled by the recordings of Jimmie Noone, Mr. Davern focused on the New Orleans style. He played with Phil Napoleon's Memphis Five and Pee Wee Erwin's band, even joining the Dukes of Dixieland for a couple of years. But later in the '60s, when Mr. Davern was regularly leading his own traditional band at Nick's in Greenwich Village, he also became close to musicians like the trombonist Roswell Rudd and the soprano saxophonist Steve Lacy, Mr. Vaché said. ''Kenny's curiosity made him see the good side of the avant-garde,'' he said.
        In later years he was a sought-after performer at jazz festivals in America and Europe, resolutely playing his own lyrical version of a traditional repertory from the 1920s on an instrument last popular in the 1940s.
        He is survived by his wife of 36 years, the former Elsa Green, for whom he and his friend the saxophonist Flip Phillips wrote the tune ''Elsa's Dream''; two stepchildren, Mark Lass, of San Diego, and Deborah Wuensch, of Poulsbo, Wash.; and four step-grandchildren.
        Asked to name other jazz greats his friend had played with, Mr. Vaché said, ''We'd need a year to list them all.''
        But Mr. Davern, who was known for his acerbic wit on and off the bandstand, listed as one of his favorite ensembles Dick Wellstood and His All-Star Orchestra, which consisted of exactly two members.
        Correction:  December 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about the jazz clarinetist and soprano saxophonist Kenny Davern erroneously included a musician among the founders of the 1970s group Soprano Summit. It was formed by Mr. Davern and Bob Wilber; the pianist Dick Wellstood was not a founder, although he frequently played with Mr. Davern in those years.
      