
        Elliot Welles, a Holocaust survivor who spent the years after World War II as a tireless hunter of Nazis, starting with the man who murdered his mother, died on Tuesday at his home in the Bronx. He was 79.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, his son, Mark, said.
        For more than two decades until his retirement in 2003, Mr. Welles directed the B'nai B'rith Anti-Defamation League's task force on Nazi war criminals. Though he preferred to work out of the limelight, he was considered one of the most influential forces in identifying Nazis who had settled in the United States and having them extradited to stand trial abroad.
        Mr. Welles spent years trolling dusty archives and marble corridors in the United States, Germany, Austria and elsewhere, painstakingly tracing the whereabouts of men and women who had hoped to vanish into obscurity. He tenaciously pressed reluctant governments around the world to divulge information, to find suspects, to apprehend them and bring them to trial.
        ''If you were an official who was not inclined to pursue these cases, Elliot Welles was not the person you were happy to see,'' said Eli Rosenbaum, director of the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations, in a telephone interview on Friday. The office was established in 1979 to identify, investigate and prosecute participants in Nazi crimes.
        Mr. Welles was known in particular for his work on the case of Boleslav Maikovskis, who had been charged with ordering the arrests that led to the mass execution of 200 Latvian villagers during the war. A native of Latvia, Mr. Maikovskis was sentenced to death in absentia by a Soviet court in 1965. He continued to live quietly in Mineola, N.Y., where he had settled after the war, before fleeing to Germany in 1987.
        In large part because of Mr. Welles's persistence, Mr. Maikovskis, then 86, was put on trial in Germany in 1990. The trial was suspended in 1994 because of Mr. Maikovskis's failing health; he died two years later.
        Among the other cases on which Mr. Welles worked was that of Josef Schwammberger, a former Nazi labor camp commander who hid for 40 years in Argentina. Mr. Welles helped have him extradited to Germany, where he was convicted in 1992 and sentenced to life in prison. He died in prison in 2004.
        Mr. Welles, whose original name was Kurt Sauerquell, was born in Vienna on Sept. 18, 1927. After the war started in Europe, he and his mother, Anna, were deported by the Nazis to Riga, Latvia. There, Anna was pulled aside and placed on a bus. The bus was driven to the woods, where the occupants were shot.
        ''Two days later, they returned with clothing from the victims,'' Mr. Welles's son said. ''He recognized his mother's dress.''
        Mr. Welles spent the next few years on his own in the Riga ghetto before being transferred to the Stutthof concentration camp in Poland. As the war's end neared, the Stutthof inmates were sent on a forced march to a death camp in Magdeburg, Germany. During the march, he escaped and made his way back to Vienna.
        In Vienna, he met Ceil Chaiken, a survivor of the ghetto in Kovno, Lithuania; they were married in 1946. Three years later, the family came to the United States, where Mr. Welles adopted his new name. (He based his first name on his Hebrew name, Eliyahu. His original surname, Sauerquell, is German for ''mineral wells'' -- hence Welles; he chose the spelling as an homage to Orson Welles, his son said.)
        In addition to his son, of Roslyn, N.Y., Mr. Welles is survived by his wife; a daughter, Suzanne Vick of Forest Hills, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
        Settling in New York in 1949, Mr. Welles took a series of menial jobs. He hauled sides of beef in a salami factory on the Lower East Side. He carried sacks in the Jack Frost sugar factory. He eventually got a job as a waiter at the Lorelei, a restaurant in Yorkville, a heavily German enclave on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. With two partners, he saved enough money to buy the place.
        ''It sort of helped with his research,'' Mark Welles said. ''Through the restaurant, he was able to maintain contacts in the German-American community, and at the German Consulate.''
        Mr. Welles had never forgotten the face, or the name, of the man who selected his mother for transport. He began corresponding with the Office of Special Investigations, and with the German and Austrian consulates, to try to find him.
        Eventually, Mr. Welles traveled to Germany, where he persuaded officials to unseal government records. He found the man, a former SS officer, living in a German town. In 1976, the man was put on trial.
        ''He was found guilty on certain counts, and not on others,'' Mark Welles said. ''There were not a lot of witnesses.''
        He was sentenced to just two to three years in jail.
        Despite the devastation of the verdict, Elliot Welles had found his calling. In the late 1970s he joined the Anti-Defamation League, for which he was also director of European affairs. Working from the league's New York office, he scoured the world for Nazis.
        He also scoured the world for witnesses, placing advertisements in Jewish newspapers around the globe asking Holocaust survivors to come forward and testify. Many did.
        ''Survivors may not be easily reachable by governments; they may not trust governments,'' Mr. Rosenbaum, of the Justice Department, said. ''But Elliot Welles, they did trust.''
      