
        Leonard Freed, a prominent photojournalist and member of the Magnum Photography Collective who was known primarily for his in-depth coverage of African-Americans in the era of the civil rights movement, died on Wednesday at his home in Garrison, N.Y. He was 77.
        The cause was recent complications of a long bout with prostate cancer, said his wife, Brigitte.
        Mr. Freed joined Magnum in 1972 and distinguished himself with classic photo essays on assignments for Life, Look, Paris-Match, Die Zeit, Der Spiegel, Stern, The Sunday Times Magazine of London, Libération and Fortune. While his coverage of African-Americans first made his reputation, his photo-reportage on the Arab-Israeli wars of 1967 and 1973, and his behind-the-scenes coverage of the New York City police department in the late 1970s were typical of the penetrating, cleareyed photo essays of Magnum photographers.
        In 1968, he published ''Black in White America,'' a book about African-Americans from Harlem through the South. His 1980 book ''Police Work'' used words and images to document the New York police.
        Photography became Mr. Freed's means to explore society's violence and racial discrimination. In numerous books and films, he examined subjects that ranged from German society to his own Jewish roots. Over the years, he produced picture essays on subjects ranging from Poland, Asian immigrants in England, North Sea oil development and Spain since Franco. He shot four films for Japanese, Dutch and Belgian television. His work is in museum collections around the world, including the Israel Museum, the Stedelijk in Amsterdam and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Born in Brooklyn on Oct. 23, 1929, to working-class Jewish parents of Eastern European descent, Mr. Freed first set out to become a painter. But at 24, traveling in the Netherlands, he began taking pictures and decided that that was what he wanted to do. In 1954 he returned to the United States and studied in the ''design laboratory'' photography class given by the Harper's Bazaar art director Alexey Brodovitch. He began working as a freelance photographer in 1961.
        Early in Mr. Freed's career, Edward Steichen, at that time the director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, bought three of Mr. Freed's photographs for the museum and told him he was one of the three best young photographers he had seen. He advised him to remain an amateur, as the other two were now doing commercial photography and had become uninteresting. ''Preferably,'' he advised, ''be a truck driver.''
        In 1956, while in Rome on his first assignment for Look magazine, he met Brigitte Klück, whom he married in 1958. His wife survives him, as does a daughter, Elke Susannah Freed, also of Garrison, N.Y.
        ''Photography is a visual language still in its infancy,'' Mr. Freed said about his own work. ''The fact that millions of people can see the same visual images on television, in films or photography is communication. Saddening to think that literary traditions are being lost to a language that is only in its infancy. Challenging in that one is free to be original.''
      