
        Tom Fexas, the innovative motor yacht designer whose famous Midnight Lace design inspired a shift to retro Italian styling for modern luxury boats, died Wednesday in Stuart, Fla. He was 65.
        His death was confirmed by his niece Elisa Casas. The cause was not yet known; he had been hospitalized with an unidentified illness.
        Inspired by the music and styles of his youth during the 1940s and '50s, Mr. Fexas created Midnight Lace, one of the best-known motorboat designs of the century, in 1978. The 44-foot shapely black boat, modeled after the pre-World War II commuter boats and rum runners of Long Island Sound, was an immediate sensation when introduced at the Fort Lauderdale Boat Show that year.
        Unlike other designs of the period, Midnight Lace and its progeny had fine wood detailing, a clipper bow and low raked-back cabins, and were narrow like the old commuters. Other recreational motorboats of this time were focused on sharp, contemporary lines and had little exterior wood.
        His early triumph with Midnight Lace led to extensive work for European clients, for whom he designed modern motor yachts that echoed traditional luxury motorboats of the past. Mr. Fexas' signature style became known as Italian styling, and is still in vogue today. It shows up in boats from 17 to 150 feet long and is seen in $1 million day boats from companies like Hinckley and Alden.
        An updated version of Midnight Lace was introduced at this year's Fort Lauderdale Boat Show.
        Tom Fexas Yacht Design opened in 1966. Since then, more than 1,000 of Mr. Fexas' designs have been built at some of the world's top boat builders, including Palmer Johnson, Mikelson Yachts, Grand Banks, Abeking & Rasmussen, and Cheoy Lee. He was also a sought-after writer on yacht design and had a monthly column in Power & Motoryacht magazine.
        Mr. Fexas was born in Queens. He attended the State University of New York Maritime College and earned a bachelor's degree in marine engineering. He later graduated from the Westlawn Institute of Yacht Design and, from 1965 through 1977, worked for the Electric Boat division of General Dynamics as a nuclear project engineer for Trident Class submarines.
        Throughout the 1970s and '80s, Mr. Fexas introduced light-weight fiberglass construction to the recreational motorboat industry. He is said to have calculated every construction plan down to the nuts and bolts so the boat would rest properly in the water.
        Through the marine industry's tough financial times during the 1990s, Mr. Fexas was one of the few businessmen who refused to lay off any of his employees.
        Mr. Fexas is survived by his wife, Regina Fexas; his mother, Antonia Fexas; and his sister, Penelope Casas, a leading authority on Spanish cooking.
      