
        Scotty Schulhofer, a Hall of Fame thoroughbred trainer who twice saddled Belmont Stakes winners, died Dec. 14 in Aventura, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, the New York Racing Association said.
        Schulhofer trained many top horses, but perhaps none had a greater impact on the sport than his 1993 Belmont winner, Colonial Affair. Owned by Centennial Farms, Colonial Affair carried the jockey Julie Krone to a two-and-a-quarter-length victory in the Belmont, giving Krone the distinction of being the first and only woman to win a Triple Crown race. ''Julie rode a terrific race, just about the way we planned it in the paddock,'' Schulhofer said.
        Schulhofer was a longtime supporter of Krone, and the two combined to win 113 races, teaming from 1988 to 1998. Schulhofer and Krone were a particularly effective combination in 1992, when they won 47 races together, including 8 stakes events.
        Schulhofer again won the Belmont, the final leg of the Triple Crown, in 1999 with Lemon Drop Kid, who also won the Travers Stakes at Saratoga later that year.
        Flint Schulhofer, a native of South Carolina, served in Europe in World War II as an infantryman. He then studied for two years at the Citadel in a premed program, but his focus soon shifted to the racetrack. For 12 years, starting in 1950, he was among the more successful steeplechase jockeys in the country. He began his training career in 1962 and four years later landed a job as the trainer for the powerful Tartan Stable.
        With Tartan, he trained the first of his six champions, guiding the filly Ta Wee to the sprint title in 1969 and 1970. Schulhofer's other champions were Lemon Drop Kid, Mac Diarmida, Smile, Rubiano and Fly So Free.
        Schulhofer, who was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1992, retired in 2001 and turned his stable over to his son, Randy. According to The Daily Racing Form, Schulhofer won 1,119 races, and his horses earned more than $52 million. His other notable victories include the 1986 Breeders' Cup Sprint with Smile and the 1990 Breeders' Cup Juvenile with Fly So Free.
        In addition to his son, Schulhofer is survived by his wife, Stephanie; his daughters, Margaret Rapp and Susan Kleinbub; and seven grandchildren.
      