
        George Latshaw, an internationally renowned puppeteer who for half a century breathed life into a diverse array of inanimate objects, and in so doing helped gain acceptance for puppetry as a legitimate art form in the United States, died on Tuesday in Temple Terrace, Fla. He was 83.
        A resident of Wesley Chapel, Fla., Mr. Latshaw had lived in Macedonia, Ohio, for many years.
        The cause was complications of a long illness, his wife, Patricia, said.
        Mr. Latshaw was widely regarded as a dean of American puppetry. Long before the Muppets, he was one of the small handful of full-time professional puppeteers who traveled the country putting on serious theatrical pieces that could be appreciated by both children and adults.
        ''Puppetry tends to get relegated to the children's department, somewhere downstairs in the back of the library,'' Wayne Krefting, president of the Puppeteers of America, said in a phone interview on Friday. ''And George struggled mightily to bring this art to the public in general, to show that it really isn't just a kiddie show, but it's a real theatrical art.''
        Credited with influencing a generation of puppeteers, Mr. Latshaw was a founder of the O'Neill Puppetry Conference, an intensive week spent developing new puppet-theater works, held each summer since 1991 in Waterford, Conn. His book ''Puppetry: The Ultimate Disguise'' (Richards Rosen Press, 1978) is considered among the most important English-language works on the subject.
        Mr. Latshaw was also known (or, more accurately, not known, since the puppeteer's lot is to be heard and not seen) for his work on the Hollywood musical ''Lili.'' Released in 1953, the film stars Leslie Caron as a waif who joins a carnival and Mel Ferrer as its embittered puppeteer. Mr. Latshaw manipulated one of Mr. Ferrer's alter egos, Carrot Top.
        His other work includes ''Quillow and the Giant,'' an adaptation of a James Thurber story performed on NBC in 1963. In a review in The New York Times, Jack Gould called Mr. Latshaw ''a remarkable technician who, through movements under the stage, manages to make his figures walk everywhere and anywhere.''
        Over the years, Mr. Latshaw built and handled puppets of all kinds, from those made from found objects like mops, badminton racquets and vacuum-cleaner hoses to outsize figures worked by multiple puppeteers in the Japanese bunraku style.
        With the Detroit Symphony in 1958, he staged Aaron Copland's ballet ''Billy the Kid'' with a cast of puppets 9 feet high, a production that puppeteers still talk about in reverential tones. Mr. Latshaw was also known for his hand puppets, among them his signature character, Wilbur, a mischievous red-haired boy.
        George Tarrant Latshaw was born on Oct. 14, 1923, in Eau Claire, Wis., and grew up near Akron, Ohio. He built his first puppet at 8. After studying theater at the University of North Carolina and Yale, he chose a life of unembittered manipulation.
        ''I knew it would be easier to get a job as a puppeteer than as an actor,'' he told The Cleveland Plain Dealer in 1993.
        In 1958, Mr. Latshaw married Patricia Herget. For the next 48 years, she rarely had access to her dining table, which was strewn with the stuff of her husband's trade: disembodied arms and legs; eyes, ears and heads; and boxes overflowing with fabric, yarn and raffia. Most nights, the family ate in the kitchen.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by their sons, Michael, of Plainfield, N.J., and Christopher, of Grapevine, Tex.; and two grandchildren.
        His puppets are in the collection of the Detroit Institute of Arts and the Center for Puppetry Arts in Atlanta. A past president of the Puppeteers of America, Mr. Latshaw founded its quarterly magazine, Puppetry Journal, which he and his wife edited for many years. ''Puppetry: The Ultimate Disguise'' was reissued in 2000 by Dover Publications as ''The Complete Book of Puppetry.''
        Throughout his career, Mr. Latshaw was ever conscious of the rigors of performing for audiences old enough to vote with their feet.
        ''The children's audience replenishes itself so there's not the same demand for new material,'' he told Aisle Say: The Internet Magazine of Stage Reviews and Opinion (aislesay.com). ''You get a repertory of folk and fairy tales and it'll last you an entire career, whereas if you're talking to adults, first, you have to have something to say and then you have to get them to sit still long enough so that you can say it effectively.''
      