
        The Rev. Robert S. Bilheimer, a Presbyterian minister with an ecumenical vision who organized religious leaders against the war in Vietnam and apartheid in South Africa, died on Dec. 17 in Canandaigua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Canandaigua.
        The cause was complications of a hip fracture and the late stages of Alzheimer's disease, his son Robert said.
        In 1948, Mr. Bilheimer organized the first meeting of the World Council of Churches, the broadest organization of the ecumenical movement.
        He became an associate general secretary and, in 1960, convened a mission for the South African members, who issued a landmark proclamation rejecting any theological basis for apartheid. When the government rejected the proclamation, all but one of the delegates withdrew their support for it. The one who refused, Beyers Naudé, an Afrikaner cleric from the Dutch Reformed Church, went on to become a leader of the white resistance to apartheid.
        Mr. Bilheimer turned to parish work in 1963 as the senior minister of Central Presbyterian Church in Rochester, only to go back to the ecumenical movement in 1966 as the director of the international affairs program of the National Council of Churches. In 1971, he organized a series of conferences in the United States for Christian and Jewish leaders against the war in Vietnam.
        He was a vocal opponent of the war. In 1968, speaking for the editors of eight religious periodicals that had made Vietnam the focus of their first issues of the year, he said, referring to President Lyndon B. Johnson: ''The president doesn't listen to critics. He deals with them.''
        Robert Sperry Bilheimer became interested in theology at Yale University in the mid-1930s, when he was exposed to the ecumenical movement by the leader of the Student Christian Movement there. He went on to receive his master's degree from Yale Divinity School in 1945 and began his ecumenical work.
        Mr. Bilheimer wrote extensively on the ecumenical movement. His books include ''The Quest for Christian Unity,'' ''A Spirituality for the Long Haul: Biblical Risk and Moral Stand'' and ''Breakthrough: The Emergence of the Ecumenical Tradition.''
        He was executive director of the Institute for Ecumenical and Cultural Research in Collegeville, Minn., until retiring in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Dodge Bilheimer; three sons, Robert, of Canandaigua, Richard, of Houston, and Roger, of New Canaan, Conn.; and five grandchildren.
      