
        Dr. Norman E. Shumway, the Stanford cardiac surgeon who in 1968 performed the United States' first successful human heart transplant and later made the operation a standard procedure after virtually all other surgeons had abandoned it, died yesterday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, Stanford officials said.
        After surgeons rushed to perform heart transplants in the late 1960's, the procedure quickly fell into disfavor because the initial results were so dismal. But about a decade later, it became an established practice, giving some patients as much as 27 years of extra life.
        The turnaround owes largely to what Dr. Shumway called his ''radical perseverance.'' He rescued heart transplants with a new immunosuppressant drug, cyclosporin, which helped keep the body from rejecting its new organ, and with a heart biopsy technique to detect and treat rejection before it became lethal.
        Dr. Shumway reshaped the way chest surgeons learn their craft, and he trained many who now perform heart transplants.
        The transplant revolution he helped set in motion extended far beyond medicine, upsetting the traditional definition of death as the moment the heart stops beating. Instead, an organ donor can now be considered dead as soon as electrical activity of the brain has ceased, allowing transplantation of a living heart or other organ.
        For a decade starting in 1958, and supported by federal grants from the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Shumway experimented on dogs to create what is now the standard technique to remove a patient's heart and replace it with a stranger's.
        On Nov. 20, 1967, he announced that his team was ready to perform a human heart transplant when a suitable donor and patient were found. At the time, both people had to be in the same hospital at the same time, because a removed heart could remain viable no more than an hour before being transplanted.
        Partly because such pairings were rare, it was Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard who performed the world's first human heart transplant on Dec. 3, 1967, in Cape Town, South Africa. Dr. Barnard had learned Dr. Shumway's technique when the two trained together at the University of Minnesota.
        By the time Dr. Shumway did his first human heart transplant on Jan. 6, 1968, it was the world's fourth.
        On Dec. 6, 1967, three days after Dr. Barnard gave Louis Washkansky a new heart, Dr. Adrian Kantrowitz, who had relied on Dr. Shumway's technique while experimenting on dogs, performed a heart transplant on an infant at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. The infant died six and a half hours later, and Dr. Kantrowitz declared the operation a failure. On Jan. 2, 1968, Dr. Barnard carried out his second heart transplant on Dr. Philip Blaiberg, who lived 19 months. Mr. Washkansky survived 18 days.
        Almost immediately, dozens of surgeons around the world who had spent little time learning the technique on animals turned heart transplantation into a medical circus. Within a year, they performed about 100 human heart transplants.
        But those early transplants seldom achieved long-term success. It was easy enough to transplant a heart, as Dr. Shumway once said, ''but it's what happens later with regard to the containment of rejection that makes the real difference.''
        Horrified by the carnival atmosphere and fearing that the adverse publicity would threaten confidence in research, a number of medical leaders and organizations urged a moratorium on heart transplants.
        Dr. Shumway went back to the laboratory, re-emerging in 1980 with successes among dogs that allowed him to move on with human patients. Before he retired from the operating room in 1993, he oversaw 800 human heart transplants.
        Another barrier to heart transplants was a societal one. Even though Dr. Barnard's first donor was a brain-dead accident victim, in the United States ''there was a terrible furor about the brain death issue,'' Dr. Shumway said.
        In the late 1960's, Dr. John Hauser, the coroner of Santa Clara County, Calif., which included Stanford, sought criminal charges against Dr. Shumway for transplanting organs without an autopsy on the donor, an act that would have made transplantation impossible. The two men shouted at each other over the issue in Dr. Shumway's office, recalled Dr. Eugene Dong, then a transplant surgeon at Stanford and now a lawyer.
        But Louis P. Bergma, then the Santa Clara district attorney, did not file a criminal complaint, and the California Legislature soon resolved the conflict by adopting cessation of brain activity as a definition of death.
        Since 1982, at least 75,000 human heart transplants have been performed at more than 250 hospitals around the world. About 2,100 heart transplants have been performed in the United States each year over the last decade. (Although better medical care has allowed many to delay the need for a heart transplant, demand for human hearts far exceeds the supply.)
        Today, about 85 percent of American heart transplant recipients live at least a year and 70 percent at least five years, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing. Robert Anthony Huesman of Dayton, Ohio, is the world's longest-surviving recipient, at 27 years.
        Quiet and witty, Dr. Shumway was a contrarian with an irreverent spirit, intuitive about people and about what would and would not work.
        ''His humor was very much in the timing of the moment,'' Dr. Dong said. ''He could tell a joke that was very funny at the moment, but if you tried to repeat it, it often fell flat.''
        Unlike the flamboyant Dr. Barnard, a full-fledged member of the jet set who had tempestuous affairs with sex symbols like Sophia Loren and Gina Lollobrigida, Dr. Shumway shunned publicity.
        But his influence on his profession was large. Among the many surgeons he trained was Bill Frist, now the Senate Republican leader, who yesterday called him ''one of the great surgical thinkers.''
        ''He was a pioneer in adopting a systematic approach to minimizing medical errors,'' Senator Frist said in an interview. ''Emphasizing the importance of keeping things simple forced people to develop systems to prevent errors and mistakes.''
        Dr. William R. Brody, another Shumway trainee who is now the president of Johns Hopkins University, said: ''Dr. Shumway had the ability to get people to work harder for him than anyone I have ever seen and yet never did it with a directive or an unkind word. He always used humor and delegated responsibility.''
        In what has since become standard practice in training chest surgeons, Dr. Shumway alternated his trainees through cardiac surgery and general surgery. One, Dr. Edward B. Stinson, performed a human heart transplant before he participated in a hernia operation.
        Dr. Shumway differed from most surgery professors of his era who generally gave residents little opportunity to operate on patients. Instead, he assisted while the trainee did the surgery; if the young surgeon erred, the professor assumed command.
        ''We used to joke, he was the world's greatest first assistant,'' Dr. Brody said in an interview.
        But first the trainees had to learn on animals. ''The best arena for the training of good surgeons is the dog laboratory,'' Dr. Shumway once said.
        Dr. Shumway also required younger surgeons to take full responsibility for a patient's care, calling in consultants from other specialties only when necessary. The efforts produced ''phenomenal results, better than anyone else's,'' Dr. Brody said.
        Norman Edward Shumway was born Feb. 9, 1923, in Kalamazoo, Mich. His father ran a creamery.
        He began at the University of Michigan as a prelaw student, but after he was drafted into the Army in 1943, he took an aptitude test that showed he had promise as a physician. A colonel then offered him a choice of staying in the infantry or going to medical school. ''I always wanted to be a doctor,'' the young soldier quickly replied.
        He completed an accelerated pre-med course at Baylor University in Waco, Tex., without ever receiving a degree. (Years later, he wrote Baylor asking if he could obtain the undergraduate degree. University officials said he could if he took courses in religion and the history of Texas. He declined.)
        He earned a medical degree from Vanderbilt in 1949, and returned to the University of Minnesota to train in surgery. He served in the Air Force during the Korean War.
        On finishing surgical training in 1957, he practiced briefly with an older partner in Santa Barbara, Calif. It was an unhappy mismatch -- a traditional practitioner and a young surgeon with pioneering ideas -- and after six weeks Dr. Shumway sought to return to academia.
        In a story he told many times, he interviewed at the University of California, San Francisco, with its chief surgeon, Dr. Leon Goldman. He knew he would not be hired when Dr. Goldman promptly fell asleep. (Senator Dianne Feinstein of California is Dr. Goldman's daughter.)
        Stanford hired Dr. Shumway in 1958 to establish a cardiovascular research surgery program. He is credited for quickly making important contributions to the surgical treatment of congenital heart anomalies.
        Two Nobel Prize winners steered him to heart transplantation, Dr. Shumway said in 2004.
        One was Dr. Joseph E. Murray, whose team transplanted a kidney from a healthy identical twin to his dying brother in Boston in 1954.
        The other was Dr. Peter Medawar, a pioneering British immunologist. ''Being in his presence would just send chills up your spine, he was so incredibly friendly, yet intelligent beyond anything I've ever seen,'' Dr. Shumway said.)
        In December 1959, working with Dr. Richard Lower, Dr. Shumway reported developing a new way to give one dog the heart of another. A mongrel dog lived with a new heart for eight days before developing an infection.
        The Stanford technique differed from earlier methods in that the Californians left a portion of the heart in place. It included parts of the walls of both upper chambers of the heart that received blood from the veins leading to the organ. The technique shortened the operating time because the surgeons had to suture only the heart tissue and arteries.
        But the surgeons still had to overcome rejection reactions. Although the heart is simply a pump, Dr. Shumway said, ''immunologically, it's fastidious.''
        As they strove to overcome immunologic barriers, Dr. Shumway and Dr. Lower worked in primitive conditions at Stanford's medical school, then in San Francisco. ''When it rained, the roof leaked, so we had to have a bucket on the desk,'' Dr. Shumway said, adding: ''We didn't even have an autoclave for our instruments. We used to boil them up on the burner in the corner. It was pretty bad.''
        Stanford was unwilling to make repairs and buy new equipment because it was about to move the medical school to the university's main campus. There, after dogs survived for a year with a new heart, the two researchers were ready to try it on human patients.
        It was a time before researchers had to get the approval of review boards to experiment on humans. With other surgeons having performed three human transplants before his first, Dr. Shumway believed he could perform 10 more transplants without any publicity and then report the findings in a medical journal.
        But when a donor was found for his first transplant patient, Mike Kasperak, 42, a call went out to members of the Stanford operating room staff who were at a wedding reception. By chance, a local reporter answered the call, alerted his editors, and within hours a throng of national journalists were at the hospital. Mr. Kasperak died 14 days later, after what Dr. Shumway called ''a fantastic galaxy of complications.''
        In the late 1970's, at the University of Cambridge in England, Sir Roy Calne successfully introduced cyclosporin for kidney transplants. Sir Roy said in an interview that he had ''spent a long time trying to persuade my cardiac colleagues here to use it in their patients, and they wouldn't use it.''
        Dr. Shumway's group began to test the drug independently after a member of the Cambridge team gave a lecture about its findings at Stanford and achieved good long-term results in dogs. ''The animal experiments kept us going while everyone else, who did not have that experimental background, dropped out,'' Dr. Shumway said.
        Dr. Shumway's team went on to develop methods to preserve the heart so it could be carried between the donor's and recipient's hospitals.
        In 1981, Dr. Shumway and Dr. Bruce Reitz performed the world's first combined heart-lung transplant.
        Commenting on how transplants, newer procedures and drugs had led to soaring health care costs, Dr. Shumway once said with a smile, ''The expense is monumental and enough to make you a Christian Scientist, which is the only way to solve the health care situation.''
        Dr. Shumway's marriage to the former Mary Lou Stuurmans ended in divorce. She survives, as do his son, Michael; three daughters, Amy, Lisa and Sara, who directs heart and lung transplantation at the University of Minnesota; and two grandchildren.
        Looking back on his career, Dr. Shumway told the prominent heart surgeon O. H. Frazier that his was ''one case where the Army aptitude test may have been right.''
      