
        Bertram A. Powers, the longtime head of the New York printers' union, who led one of the nation's longest and most debilitating newspaper strikes and years later negotiated a contract that guaranteed his members jobs for life as computers eclipsed their craft, died Saturday in Washington. He was 84.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said his son, Brian A. Powers of Washington. Mr. Powers had lived in the Union Square neighborhood of Manhattan for 30 years until moving to Washington nine weeks ago to be closer to family as his health began to fail.
        As president of Local 6 of the International Typographical Union from 1961 until his retirement in 1990, Mr. Powers was known as a hard bargainer who had little faith in the altruism of employers. He often said ''the only thing that counts is muscle.''
        At the height of his power in the early 1960s, he was spoken of in the same breath as the biggest national labor figures of the period, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president George Meany and the Teamsters' leader Jimmy Hoffa.
        ''He gave me some advice once. He said, 'Always do what's best for your members and don't pay that much attention to everything else that's going on around you,' '' said Barry Lipton, the president of the New York Newspaper Guild.
        It was advice that Mr. Powers relied upon himself as he came under withering criticism during the 114-day newspaper strike of 1962 and 1963.
        Mr. Powers was elected president of Local 6, popularly known as ''Big Six,'' in 1961. Chief among his concerns was ending the long-held practice of New York publishers of reaching a new contract with one of the 10 New York newspaper unions and imposing those terms on all of them.
        On Dec. 8, 1962, Mr. Powers led Big Six, the nation's oldest craft union, on its first walkout in nearly 80 years. For the next 16 weeks, The New York Times, The Daily News, The Herald Tribune and the city's four other dailies were silenced. The shutdown cost the newspapers an estimated $108 million in lost advertising and circulation revenue, and nearly 20.000 newspaper employees were out of work.
        The sides eventually agreed to a settlement hammered out by Mayor Robert F. Wagner. The printers received a wage and benefit increase of $12.63 a week -- significantly less than the $37 Mr. Powers had demanded, but more than the $10 originally offered by the publishers. The deal also ended staggered expiration dates for the various unions' contracts, which gave the unions, when they were united, more leverage in negotiations.
        Victory or not, the strike and Mr. Powers were widely blamed for the demise of four of city's daily newspapers over the next five years, a notion that Mr. Powers flatly rejected. At the same time, his hard-line stands left him more popular than ever with his membership.
        When the union's contract expired in 1973, Mr. Powers avoided strikes and turned to work slowdowns instead as the printers negotiated a new deal in the face of automation that threatened to end their careers. In the end, Mr. Powers negotiated a settlement in which the printers agreed to let their jobs be phased out by automation. In exchange, they received what many labor leaders called an unprecedented guarantee: that they could remain employed with their companies for life..
        The printers' union steadily lost membership as automation took over, and has since merged with the Communications Workers of America.
        Bertram Anthony Powers, one of six children, was born in Cambridge, Mass., on March 8, 1922. His early years were marked by difficulty. His father, a civil servant, lost his job during the Depression. And in 1933, when he was 11, his mother died.
        Mr. Powers dropped out of high school in the 10th grade to join the Civilian Conservation Corps. In 1937, he was run over by a truck, leaving him in pain and with a limp the rest of his life.
        He got his start as a printer in Fitchburg, Mass., and moved from job to job before landing in New York City in 1946. He joined Local 6 and gradually ascended its ranks.
        Mr. Powers's wife of 43 years, Patricia Powers, a writer and college professor, died in 1988. Besides his son Brian, he is survived by his son Kevin, of Buffalo; two daughters, Patricia Inciardi of Novato, Calif., and Moya Keating of Chatham, N.J.; and nine grandchildren. He is also survived by three sisters.
        In 1963, as the newspaper strike reached its 75th day, President John F. Kennedy publicly criticized Mr. Powers.
        ''It is clear,'' the president said, ''in the case of the New York newspaper strike, that the local of the International Typographical Union and its president, Bertram Powers, insofar as anyone can understand his positions, are attempting to impose a settlement which could shut down several newspapers in New York and throw thousands out of work.''
        Coming from an Irish-American from Boston and a staunch Democrat, the president's rebuke was particularly stinging, said Brian Powers, who is a labor lawyer.
        But publicly, Mr. Powers appeared unfazed. ''President Kennedy has been ill-advised,'' he told Time magazine, which put him on its March 1, 1963, cover along with a illustration of a monkey wrench jamming a printing press. Years later, however, he would call the strike a ''severe experience.''
      