
        Ray T. Parfet Jr., the last member of the Upjohn family to lead its namesake pharmaceutical company in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he also started a minor-league hockey franchise, died Nov. 27 in Kalamazoo. He was 84.
        The cause was acute respiratory distress syndrome, said his son, Donald Parfet.
        Mr. Parfet, known as Ted, led Upjohn through significant international expansion as its chairman and chief executive from 1969 until 1987. He retired from the board in 1994, shortly before the company merged with the Swedish drug maker Pharmacia. Upjohn is now part of Pfizer, whose operations in the Kalamazoo area still employ about 4,300.
        Mr. Parfet, who lived northeast of Kalamazoo in Hickory Corners, was married for 61 years to Martha Gilmore Parfet, a childhood friend and a granddaughter of Upjohn's founder, W. E. Upjohn. The Parfets owned the Gilmore Brothers Department Store, a mainstay in downtown Kalamazoo for decades.
        The couple brought professional hockey to western Michigan in 1974 when they started the Kalamazoo Wings, which played in the International Hockey League. They owned the franchise until it closed in 2000. In 2002, they acquired the United Hockey League team that adopted the Wings name after moving to Kalamazoo from Wisconsin.
        The team's arena, Wings Stadium, is ''one of Mr. Parfet's greatest gifts to Kalamazoo,'' said Mike Modugno, the K-Wings' announcer and spokesman. It was intended to be a larger site for the Kalamazoo Boxing Academy, which Mr. Parfet helped to found, but became better known for hockey.
        When the Wings disbanded in 2000, the Parfets sought to donate the arena to Western Michigan University to ensure that it would remain open for public use.
        Ray Theodore Parfet was born Oct. 25, 1922, in Port Huron, Mich., and moved to Kalamazoo with his family at the age of 3. He planned to be a veterinarian but decided to attend the University of Michigan Business School after returning from World War II. He flew 60 missions as a B-25 bomber pilot with the Army Air Corps; he was awarded an Air Medal, the first one with 11 clusters and the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        He was hired at Upjohn in 1945 as an accountant and held several executive positions, beginning in 1958. Before retiring, Mr. Parfet was chairman of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association.
        He is survived by his wife as well as his sons, William and Donald; his daughters, Sally Williams and Jane Parfet; 10 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
        A racehorse that Mr. Parfet and his wife raised, a colt named Horse Greeley, is considered a potential competitor in the Kentucky Derby next year. The family is donating Mr. Parfet's pacemaker to a veterinary hospital so that it can be used to regulate the heartbeat of a racehorse.
      