
        Former President Gerald R. Ford, who was thrust into the presidency in 1974 in the wake of the Watergate scandal but who lost his own bid for election after pardoning President Richard M. Nixon, has died, according to a statement issued late last night by his wife, Betty Ford.
        He was 93, making him the longest living former president, surpassing Ronald Reagan, who died in 2004, by just over a month.
        The statement did not give a cause, place or time of death, but Mr. Ford, the 38th president, had been in and out of the hospital since January 2006 when he suffered pneumonia, most recently in October at the Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif., for medical tests. He returned to his home in Rancho Mirage after five days of hospitalization.
        ''My family joins me in sharing the difficult news that Gerald Ford, our beloved husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather has passed away at 93 years of age,'' Mrs. Ford said in a statement issued from her husband's office in Rancho Mirage, also the location of the Betty Ford Center. ''His life was filled with love of God, his family and his country.''
        President Bush praised Mr. Ford for his contributions to the nation ''in an hour of national turmoil and vision,'' in a statement released early today from his ranch in Texas.
        ''With his quiet integrity, common sense, and kind instincts, President Ford helped heal our land and restore public confidence in the presidency,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The American people will always admire Gerald Ford's devotion to duty, his personal character, and the honorable conduct of his administration.''
        Mr. Ford, who was the only person to lead the country without having been elected as president or vice president, occupied the White House for just 896 days -- starting from a hastily arranged ceremony on Aug. 9, 1974, and ending with his defeat by Jimmy Carter in 1976. But they were pivotal days of national introspection, involving America's first definitive failure in a war and the first resignation of a president.
        After a decade of division over Vietnam and two years of trauma over the Watergate scandals, Jerry Ford, as he called himself, radiated a soothing familiarity. He might have been the nice guy down the street suddenly put in charge of the nation, and if he seemed a bit predictable, he was also safe, reliable and reassuring. He placed no intolerable intellectual or psychological burdens on a weary land, and he lived out a modest philosophy. ''The harder you work, the luckier you are,'' he said once in summarizing his career. ''I worked like hell.''
        Gerald Rudolph Ford was born on July 14, 1913, in Omaha to Leslie Lynch King and Dorothy Ayer King. He rose to House minority leader in 1963 and served in the House until 1973, when Vice President Spiro T. Agnew resigned, and President Nixon appointed Mr. Ford to succeed Mr. Agnew.
        When Mr. Ford took the oath of president in 1974, the economy was in disarray, an energy shortage was worsening, allies were wondering how steadfast the United States might be as a partner and Mr. Nixon, having resigned rather than face impeachment for taking part in the Watergate cover-up, was flying to seclusion in San Clemente, Calif.
        There was a collective sense of relief as Mr. Ford, in the most memorable line of his most noteworthy speech, declared that day, ''Our long national nightmare is over.''
        GERALD FORD DIES
        Correction:  December 28, 2006, Thursday  A front-page obituary in some copies yesterday about Gerald Ford, the 38th president of the United States, misstated the year that he became House minority leader. It was 1965, not 1963.
      