
        William H. Booth, a former New York City judge who challenged racial discrimination in employment, housing, education and other fields as a civil rights leader and as chairman of the city's Commission on Human Rights in the late 1960s, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Kissimmee, Fla. He was 84.
        The cause was complications of a stroke suffered in 2005, said his daughter, Gini Booth.
        In a career that embraced law, politics and civil rights over nearly six decades, Mr. Booth was New York State president of the N.A.A.C.P.; served 13 years on the benches of the Criminal and State Supreme Courts; and in the early 1990s was chairman of the city's Board of Correction, which monitors policies and conditions in the jail system.
        But he was perhaps best known as Mayor John V. Lindsay's man at the helm of the Human Rights Commission from 1966 to 1969, when New York seethed with racial tensions, protest demonstrations, battles at construction sites, angry school board meetings and spasmodic street rioting.
        It was an era of widespread and entrenched racial discrimination -- in building trades, unions, housing, major corporations, restaurant and hotel jobs, and other areas of employment. Black and Hispanic people were vastly underrepresented among city teachers, police officers and firefighters. They were also shunned by many landlords, taxi drivers and retailers, and there were ugly expressions of bias. One bank had a mural featuring ''Banjo Billy,'' a wooly-headed, happy-go-lucky slave stereotype.
        Mr. Booth, a black Republican lawyer who joined the N.A.A.C.P. as a teenager and became a forceful civil rights advocate long before jumping onto Mr. Lindsay's mayoral bandwagon in 1965, found the Human Rights Commission to be a passive, insular and largely ineffective city agency. It met behind closed doors and, until shortly before Mr. Booth's appointment, lacked subpoena power.
        In short order, Mr. Booth opened commission meetings, subpoenaed data on the racial composition of corporations, unions, and restaurant and hotel chains, and went after the taxi industry as well as landlords who redlined members of minority groups in the sale or rental of housing. He also established commission field offices around the city to take complaints and begin investigations.
        He found no black principals in the city's 90 high schools, and only four among 830 other public schools. He discovered that retailers with progressive attitudes and those openly hostile to hiring blacks had virtually the same number of black workers, mostly in the lowest, poorest-paid jobs. He charged that the police routinely assigned demoted officers to beats in Harlem, and he insisted that officers who belonged to the right-wing John Birch Society not be assigned to civil rights demonstrations.
        Backed by the mayor, Mr. Booth held hearings, filed lawsuits, issued cease-and-desist orders and threatened to cut off the city contracts of companies that violated discrimination laws.
        Mr. Booth -- tall, trim, and a rapid talker with graying hair and a suit often soaked with sweat from his whirlwind pace -- also made nocturnal forays to check on, and order the arrest of, cabbies who refused to pick up black people. And he accompanied Mayor Lindsay into tense black communities, talking to the people and calming crowds after racial clashes and volatile incidents, like the sniper shooting of an 11-year-old black boy in East New York, Brooklyn, in July 1966.
        His support for Stokely Carmichael of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and other advocates of black power drew sharp criticism, and a rabbi resigned as a member of the rights commission, accusing the chairman of ignoring bias against Jews, a charge Mr. Booth denied.
        Critics generally gave Mr. Booth high marks for setting an ambitious agenda during his tenure and for putting some punch into what had been a phlegmatic agency, although biases against women and gay people had not yet become a major focus of the commission, and its progress against the mountain of racial discrimination was, at best, incremental.
        In 1969, Mr. Lindsay named Mr. Booth to a Criminal Court judgeship, which he held for seven years, and from 1976 to 1982 he was an acting justice of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. In 1987, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo named Mr. Booth to a task force on bias-related violence. In 1991, Mayor David N. Dinkins appointed him chairman of the watchdog Board of Correction, and he later clashed with the Giuliani administration over budget cuts and conditions in city jails.
        ''He exemplified the best of the human spirit,'' said Helen Marshall, the Queens borough president. ''His passion for justice marked his long career of public service.''
        William Henry Booth was born in Queens on Aug. 13, 1922. He became president of the Jamaica youth chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. at 16, graduated from Jamaica High School and enrolled in Queens College. After World War II service as an Army Air Force master sergeant in Italy, he resumed his studies and graduated from Queens in 1946. He earned a law degree and a master's in law from New York University.
        While practicing criminal law for many years, he continued his civil rights work with the N.A.A.C.P., rising to leadership of the state's 61 chapters and 55,000 members. He traveled to Mississippi, Alabama and elsewhere in the South to investigate discrimination cases, and joined the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bayard Rustin and other black leaders in marches and other civil rights activities.
        Mr. Booth also joined New York demonstrations, and in 1963 he was one of 24 pickets arrested at Rochdale Village, a Queens cooperative, for blocking trucks at a construction site to demand the hiring of black workers. The charges of disorderly conduct were later dismissed.
        Besides his daughter, of Sag Harbor, N.Y., Mr. Booth is survived by his second wife, the former Suzanne Bishop, whom he married in 1981; two stepsons, Jeffrey Booth of Kissimmee and Ronald Booth of New York City; a brother, Dr. Clayburn Carter Booth, of Niagara Falls, N.Y.; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild. His first wife, Harriet Walker Booth, whom he married in 1946, died in 1998.
      