
        Fernand Nault, one of Canada's foremost dance figures, who followed a 21-year career at American Ballet Theater with the artistic leadership of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens and with prolific choreography that ranged from ''The Nutcracker'' to ''Tommy,'' his 1970 hit rock ballet, died in Montreal on Tuesday. He was one day short of his 86th birthday.
        The Grands Ballets announced his death, saying he suffered from Parkinson's disease.
        Although credited by critics with raising the Grands Ballets to international status and honored by the Canadian and Quebec governments for his contributions to Canadian dance, Mr. Nault was also for many years a dancer, teacher, choreographer and artistic director in the United States.
        New dance audiences at home and abroad were drawn to ''Tommy,'' based on the rock opera by the Who. Its sold-out New York premiere run at City Center in 1971 was only part of the 300 performances the work had for two consecutive years.
        ''A whole new generation who had never seen ballet came to see 'Tommy,' '' Vincent Warren, a leading dancer in the troupe, once recalled.
        ''I could smell the pot wafting from the audience.''
        Mr. Nault was also known as a traditionally trained classical choreographer. His version of the 1789 ballet ''La Fille Mal Gardée'' was a staple of several companies, including the Joffrey Ballet.
        He was artistic director of the Colorado Ballet (1981-82) and the Louisville Civic Ballet (1959-64). His first version of ''Carmina Burana'' was created in the United States. But when he restaged it for the Grands Ballets, its dynamic power made it a sensation at Expo 67, the world's fair in Montreal.
        Born Fernand Noël Boissonneault on Dec. 27, 1920, in Montreal, Mr. Nault studied ballet there with Maurice Morenoff and modern dance with Elizabeth Leese. In 1944 he substituted for an injured dancer during a performance in Montreal by Ballet Theater; he joined the company that year in New York, becoming known as a character dancer and eventually as a respected ballet master. He directed Ballet Theater's school from 1960 to 1964 and choreographed for the company.
        In 1965 he accepted the invitation of Ludmilla Chiriaeff, founder of the Grands Ballets, to join her as co-artistic director and to serve as resident choreographer.
        He resigned as co-director in 1974 but remained as resident choreographer while serving as choreographer and ballet master at one of the company's schools. In 1990 the company named him choreographer emeritus.
        He is survived in Montreal by his partner, Philippe Giroux, and a sister, Monique Boissonneault.
        Although never considered a first-rank choreographer, Mr. Nault offered a wide range of work that attracted new audiences and could also have a spiritual dimension. For some years the Grands Ballets had encountered opposition in Quebec from some Catholic clergy who viewed theatrical dancing as sinful. Yet by 1970, Mr. Nault was able to stage his ballet to Stravinsky's ''Symphony of Psalms'' in front of the high altar within Montreal's great church St. Joseph's Oratory.
      