
        Peter Blake, an architect, critic and former editor of Architectural Forum who was known for his lively critiques of Modernism and his friendships with artists, died yesterday at a hospice near his home in Branford, Conn. He was 86.
        The cause was complications from a respiratory infection, said his son, Casey Nelson Blake.
        One of Mr. Blake's most-discussed designs was never built: an ''Ideal Museum,'' conceived in 1949 for Jackson Pollock, a friend. Mr. Blake envisioned a spare building behind the artist's house in East Hampton in which Pollock's paintings would be set between mirrored walls, creating a sense of infinite views. The design was included in a Pollock exhibition in the Betty Parsons Gallery in Manhattan and, in the 1980s, at the Centre Pompidou in Paris.
        Born into a Jewish family in Berlin in 1920 as Peter Jost Blach, Mr. Blake fled with his parents to England after the Nazis came to power. He attended schools in London until World War II and then moved to the United States, where he enrolled in the architecture school at the University of Pennsylvania and worked briefly for the architect Louis Kahn.
        He became a citizen in 1944 and changed his name to Blake. By then he had struck up an acquaintance with a wide and often rambunctious circle of artists, architects and writers, from Pollock to Charles Eames.
        In 1948, he was named curator of architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art, where he remained for two years, writing a monograph on the architect Marcel Breuer. Books exploring the legacy of Frank Lloyd Wright, Le Corbusier, Mies van der Rohe and Philip Johnson followed.
        From 1950 to 1972, he was the editor of Architectural Forum (now defunct), which attracted a wide following with its articles on the home-building industry as well as architectural currents. Mr. Blake then founded his own magazine, Architecture Plus, where he worked until 1975.
        Although an enthusiastic chronicler of Modernism, he rebelled against some of its manifestations in books like ''Form Follows Fiasco: Why Modern Architecture Hasn't Worked'' (1977). Inveighing against the sterility and ugliness he perceived in so much postwar architecture, he reminded his audience of the reformist principles in which the movement was rooted.
        ''He hated the term 'Modernism,' which he thought reduced modern architecture to a style,'' his son, Casey, said in an interview this week. ''He thought the Modern movement was bound up with reform.''
        Mr. Blake also had a passion for the Hamptons and designed many houses there, including dwellings for his own family. The Blake House, built in 1960 on the edge of Mecox Bay, featured a passageway with a view of the sea that divided the living and sleeping areas and a 12-foot-long skylight framing the sunset.
        His other beach homes included the nearby Russell House in Bridgehampton, designed with Julian Neski in 1956, and the Armstrong House on the Montauk Cliffs, built in 1961. Both were organized, as Mr. Blake put it, ''upside down,'' with the living areas on top to make the most of the views. The architect Robert A. M. Stern, dean of Yale's architecture school, described Mr. Blake's collaborations with Mr. Neski as houses that ''sat very lightly and lovingly on the land.''
        Preferring simple combinations of wood and glass, Mr. Blake lamented the development that had overtaken Long Island's South Fork by the 1980s. ''That whole area, before all the twits came in, was all about landscape, views of the water, and so on,'' he said in a 1999 interview.
        Mr. Blake colorfully described his encounters with many of his illustrious contemporaries in his 1993 memoir, ''No Place Like Utopia: Modern Architecture and the Company We Kept'' (Alfred A. Knopf). ''Whether he is recalling the miasmic musings of Louis Kahn, the grunts from Mies or the 'semi stammer' of the designer Charles Eames, the portrait is vivid,'' Jane Holtz Kay wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
        He also taught architecture at several schools and served as chairman of architecture and planning at Catholic University in Washington from 1979 to 1986.
        Three marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his son, of New York, Mr. Blake is survived by a daughter, Christina Blake Oliver of Newton, Mass.; a sister, Madi Blach Lanier of New York; three grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren, two great-grandchildren and four stepgreat grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 22, 2006, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Dec. 6 about the architect Peter Blake referred imprecisely to the highest editing position he held at the journal and misstated the years he was in that post. He was editor in chief, not editor. And he held that title from 1965 to 1972 -- not from 1950 to 1972. (He was also associate editor from 1950 to 1961 and managing editor from 1961 to 1964.)
        The obituary also misstated the circumstances of Mr. Blake's departure from Germany, his birthplace. His parents sent him to school in England after the Nazis came to power; he did not flee Germany with his parents. (Each of Peter Blake's parents later left Germany separately for New York.)
      