
        Arthur Shimkin, a Grammy Award-winning producer of children's records, including Hans Christian Andersen fairy tales and ''Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer'' -- sung, appropriately enough, by Jimmy Durante (the ''Schnozzola'') -- died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was bladder cancer, his son Carl said.
        As head of the Little Golden Records division of the Simon & Schuster publishing company in the 1950s and '60s and of Sesame Street Records in the '70s, Mr. Shimkin often said that his clientele was the kid at home from school with the sniffles, and moms and dads weary of reading ''Cinderella'' for the fourth straight time.
        He was the executive producer of more than 3,000 records that sold more than 5 million copies -- including at least 500,000 of ''Sesame Street Fever,'' a takeoff on the 1977 Bee Gees hit ''Saturday Night Fever.'' He was nominated for 13 Grammys, including the one he won in 1961 for ''Peter and the Wolf,'' played by the New York Philharmonic under the baton of Leonard Bernstein.
        Mr. Shimkin came to his career circuitously. An economics major in college, he was hired to work in Simon & Schuster's business department in 1948 and asked to come up with a new marketing concept.
        ''My father spent months reading the comment cards sent in by parents of children being read to,'' Carl Shimkin said. ''The comment that came back most was that they were worn out because their children always wanted them to read those stories over and over again. They wished there was some kind of recording so they could leave the room.''
        Mr. Shimkin sold the idea to Max Schuster, one of the company's founders, and the Little Golden Records label took off. It first came out with versions of classic fairy tales like ''The Sorcerer's Apprentice'' on two-sided 45 r.p.m. records. Then came long-playing albums featuring celebrities like Bing Crosby crooning Christmas carols, Alfred Hitchcock narrating ghost stories and the likes of Roy Rogers, Burl Ives and Johnny Cash singing children's favorites.
        In 1961, Mr. Shimkin produced ''Young Abe Lincoln,'' a Broadway show written specifically for children. Although the musical closed after only 22 performances at the Eugene O'Neill Theater, it returned to Off Broadway for a long run at the York Theater and has often been performed on the road and in school productions across the country.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Shimkin was born on Oct. 8, 1922. Besides his son Carl, of Queens, he is survived by his wife of 39 years, Bonnie Lee Sanders, who is a songwriter; three other sons, Tony of Manhattan, Jonathan of South Fallsburg, N.Y., and David of East Northport, N.Y.; and 5 grandchildren.
        Mr. Shimkin graduated from Columbia University in 1943, then served in the Army Air Corps. Before joining Simon & Schuster, he was a freelance writer for several years in the late 1940s. In 1970, in association with the Children's Television Workshop, he started Sesame Street Records. In his later years, he produced records introducing basic reading, classical music and Shakespeare to children.
        ''Our audience is one runny-nosed kid who is sitting on the floor,'' Mr. Shimkin said in a 1961 interview. ''He can't go to school and he can't watch TV because there's nothing on, so he turns on a record. I want to introduce him to literature, history, music.''
      