
        Dave Tatsuno, a Japanese-American businessman and amateur filmmaker whose home movies, shot in secret in the 1940's, offer a rare documentary portrait of life in an American internment camp during World War II, died on Jan. 26 at his home in San Jose, Calif. He was 92.
        Mr. Tatsuno's family confirmed the death.
        In 1942, Mr. Tatsuno and his family were interned at the Topaz Relocation Center in the Utah desert. Over the next three years, shooting covertly with a contraband camera, he recorded everyday life in his dust-blown barracks community, which at its height was home to more than 8,000 Americans of Japanese descent.
        His haunting footage was later compiled into a 48-minute silent film, ''Topaz.'' In 1996, ''Topaz'' was placed on the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress.
        Mr. Tatsuno's film was only the second home movie to be included in the registry, which is dedicated primarily to Hollywood classics like ''Citizen Kane'' and ''Casablanca.'' The first was Abraham Zapruder's film of John F. Kennedy's assassination.
        Mr. Tatsuno's original footage is now in the permanent collection of the Japanese American National Museum in Los Angeles. It has also been prominently featured in other films, among them ''Something Strong Within'' (1995), by Karen Ishizuka, a critically acclaimed documentary about the camps.
        Before the war and after, Mr. Tatsuno was a prominent businessman and civic leader in the Bay Area. For many years he ran a Japanese department store, Nichi Bei Bussan, which his father founded in San Francisco in 1902 and painstakingly rebuilt after the earthquake of 1906. Now in San Jose, the store is run by one of Mr. Tatsuno's daughters.
        Mr. Tatsuno was also a home-movie buff, and he not only had his beloved camera smuggled into Topaz but also arranged for film to be brought in, smuggled out, developed and returned for clandestine screenings while he and his family lived behind barbed wire there.
        On Feb. 19, 1942, less than 10 weeks after the attack on Pearl Harbor, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed Executive Order 9066, authorizing the internment of Japanese-Americans and immigrants from Japan living on the West Coast. By war's end, more than 100,000 people had been interned in 10 inland detention camps in six Western states and Arkansas.
        One of these camps was Topaz, in central Utah, 140 miles south of Salt Lake City. It was little more than a collection of crude barracks, made of pine planks and tar paper, set in an arid, desolate landscape. Winters were brutally cold, summers oppressively hot. Nothing could keep out the dust -- profuse, incessant, as fine as flour.
        Shooting in color with an 8-millimeter Bell & Howell camera, Mr. Tatsuno chronicled ordinary moments in lives lived under extraordinary conditions. There were birthday parties and church services and people pounding rice for mochi, Japanese New Year's cakes. There is a stark image of a girl in a short skirt and ankle socks ice skating alone on a frozen mud puddle.
        Masaharu Tatsuno was born in 1913 to a family who had come to the United States in the late 19th century. To the end of his life he considered himself a native Californian, but he may actually have been born in Japan; his mother apparently returned there to give birth to him, Mr. Tatsuno's children said in interviews last week.
        Reared in San Francisco, Mr. Tatsuno adopted the name Dave in junior high school: Masaharu was too long to fit on his campaign posters when he ran for student body president. He earned a bachelor's degree in business, with a minor in public speaking, from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1936.
        Mr. Tatsuno hoped to become a Presbyterian minister, but the family business beckoned. Around this time, he became passionately interested in filmmaking. His closest childhood friend had recently died. A few months later, Mr. Tatsuno saw his friend, as if miraculously returned to life, in a home movie.
        ''He said to himself, 'If the magic of film could do this -- bring my best friend back to me -- then I want to do home movies.' '' Ms. Ishizuka, the documentary filmmaker, said.
        A devoted chronicler of his surroundings (he had kept a journal since he was a child), Mr. Tatsuno began filming everything that came into view, including family gatherings, the Northern California landscape and the 1939 World's Fair in San Francisco. But he could not bring his camera to Topaz: movie cameras, along with still cameras, short-wave radios and samurai swords, were deemed contraband. He left it with a friend for safekeeping.
        At Topaz, Mr. Tatsuno was put in charge of the camp's co-operative store. His supervisor there, Walter Honderick, was also a home-movie buff. When he learned of Mr. Tatsuno's forsaken camera, he said, quietly, ''Have your friend send it to me.''
        Breaking the law, Mr. Honderick slipped Mr. Tatsuno the camera, cautioning him not to use it near the fence, where guards were stationed. In the barracks, Mr. Tatsuno kept it hidden in a shoebox. In later years, he always credited Mr. Honderick, who remained a close friend after the war, with making ''Topaz'' possible.
        Mr. Tatsuno was allowed to leave the camp on buying trips for the co-operative, traveling to Chicago and other cities. There, he discreetly bought film, which he later smuggled out for developing. Sometime later, when his wife had her sewing machine sent from California, the sender tucked an 8-millimeter projector into the package.
        Mr. Tatsuno's wife, the former Alice Okada, whom he married in 1938, died last year; a son, Sheldon, died in 1947. Mr. Tatsuno is survived by five children, Rod, of Sun Valley, Idaho, Arlene Damron of Santa Clara, Calif., Valerie Sermon of Los Gatos, Calif., Sheridan, of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Melanie Cochran of San Jose; a sister, Chiye Watanabe, of Sacramento; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed a measure apologizing to Japanese-Americans for their internment during the war. Each surviving detainee was offered $20,000 in reparations.
        Over the years, Mr. Tatsuno tended to play down the importance of ''Topaz,'' modestly dismissing it as just another home movie. But in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1997, he recalled capturing an image of particular historical irony.
        ''Here we are behind the barbed wire and my brother comes in wearing an American Army uniform with a guard to visit his family in a concentration camp,'' Mr. Tatsuno said. ''At that time, I didn't think about it. But it's a very important shot.''
        Correction:  February 14, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Dave Tatsuno, who filmed the Japanese internment camp to which he was sent during World War II, misidentified the international exhibition he filmed in San Francisco in 1939. It was the Golden Gate International Exhibition of 1939-40 -- not the 1939 World's Fair, which took place in New York City.
      