
        Robert B. Hotz, an aviation expert and writer who helped investigate NASA's role in the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger in 1986 and became a strong critic of the agency, died Feb. 9 at a hospital in Frederick, Md. He was 91.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        From 1955 to 1980, Mr. Hotz was editor in chief of Aviation Week & Space Technology, a trade publication, where he wrote editorials and became a recognized voice on matters of space travel and military aviation.
        In 1986, when the Challenger exploded soon after launching, killing all seven astronauts on board, he was appointed to an investigative panel by President Ronald Reagan. Other panel members included the astronaut Neil Armstrong and the Nobel laureate Richard P. Feynman.
        The panel ultimately found a breakdown in communication and safety protocols within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and Mr. Hotz was searing in his criticism of the agency's handling of the details involving the deaths of the astronauts, who included Christa McAuliffe, a teacher from New Hampshire.
        Although NASA claimed initially that crew members died instantly, it later said that some of the astronauts survived long enough after the explosion to activate their emergency breathing packs.
        ''Of course there was a cover-up,'' Mr. Hotz told The New York Times in 1988. ''I believe they couldn't face the fact that they had to put these guys in a situation where they did not have adequate equipment to survive.''
        In 1990, after broader criticism surfaced about the direction of the space agency and the declining competence of its personnel, Mr. Hotz described NASA as ''a guy with a bellyache.''
        He explained: ''He can't digest what he's got in his stomach, but he wants more. The space station is a big morsel. The moon base is half a side of beef. And the mission to Mars is a whole steer.''
        When the shuttle Columbia and its crew of seven astronauts were lost in 2003, Mr. Hotz monitored the space agency's response and found that NASA's transparency and quickness to share information had largely improved since the Challenger disaster.
        At Aviation Week, where he was also publisher from 1976 to 1980, he recruited engineers to write for the publication and opened bureaus in Brussels, Paris and London.
        Robert Bergmann Hotz was born in Milwaukee. He received his undergraduate degree from Northwestern University. After working as a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune, he joined The Milwaukee Journal in 1938 and eventually became chief of the paper's New York bureau.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Hotz served with the Army Air Corps in China. He wrote about the experience in a book, ''With General Chennault: The Story of the Flying Tigers'' (1943), and later edited ''Way of a Fighter: The Memoirs of Claire Lee Chennault'' (1949).
        In 1982, he was appointed to the general advisory committee of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and he served there in the Reagan and first Bush administrations.
        Mr. Hotz is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Joan Willison. They lived on a farm in Myersville, Md. He is also survived by four sons, Robert Lee Hotz of Manhattan, a science writer for The Los Angeles Times, George, of Middletown, Md., Harry, of Brookline, Mass., and Michael, of Manhattan; a sister, Peggy Diehl of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      