
        Alan M. Levin, a documentary filmmaker whose work exploring political and social issues won major awards during a long career in television journalism, died on Monday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 79.
        Mr. Levin died in his sleep, his son Marc said.
        Mr. Levin's work in the television industry began in the 1970's with PBS. He was one of the original news producers at WNET, New York's public television station, and in 1979 produced the Emmy-winning, six-part series ''The New Immigrants,'' about the new wave of non-European immigrants.
        He and Bill Moyers worked together on a number of award-winning programs, including ''The Secret Government: The Constitution in Crisis,'' a history of covert C.I.A. operations leading up to the Iran-contra affair. The program won the national Emmy Award for news and documentary in 1988.
        Mr. Levin also had a long collaboration with Sheila Nevins, the president of HBO's documentary division. With his son Marc, who is also a filmmaker, and their producing partner, Daphne Pinkerson, he made an HBO documentary ''Thug Life,'' about incarcerated young black men in Washington, that won the 1999 National Emmy for outstanding nonfiction special.
        Mr. Levin, a veteran of World War II who grew up in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, sought to use television as an instrument for social change, his son said.
        He was one of the first journalists to report on the rise of America's religious right, with the 1982 film ''Portrait of an American Zealot.'' In 1986, ''Inside the Jury Room,'' his program for the PBS ''Frontline'' series, captured the first jury deliberation ever recorded for television.
        Mr. Levin's wife, Hannah Alexander, died in 1998. Besides his son Marc, of New York, he is survived by his daughters, Nicole Levin of New York, Danielle Levin of Yonkers and Juliette Blevins of Leipzig, Germany; two sisters, Helen Sacks of New Haven and Sue Miller of Great Neck, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      