
        Ernie Stautner, an undersized defensive tackle who became the best player on the Pittsburgh Steelers' woeful teams in the 1950's and was later enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died yesterday in a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 80 and lived in Vail, Colo.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Jill, said.
        For 14 National Football League seasons (1950-1963), Stautner, a native of Germany, played for Steelers teams that lost more often than they won. Their offenses were so unproductive that in two of those seasons their leading rusher failed to score a touchdown. But their defenses, led by Stautner, were always strong.
        At 6-foot-1 and about 235 pounds, he was small for his position, even in that era, but he was chosen to play in the Pro Bowl nine times and was voted to the N.F.L.'s All-Star team four times. He was elected to the Hall of Fame, in Canton, Ohio, in 1969, the first year he was eligible. His Hall of Fame biography reads, in part, ''He went on to excel in the game of giants.''
        Stautner's Web site quotes Jim Parker, the Hall of Fame offensive guard who died last July, as once saying of Stautner: ''That man ain't human. He's too strong to be human. He's the toughest guy in the league to play against because he keeps coming headfirst. Swinging those forearms wears you down. That animal used to stick his head in my belly and drive me into the backfield so hard that when I picked myself up and looked around, there was a path chopped through the field like the farmer had run a plow over it.''
        Dick Modzelewski, a defensive lineman in Stautner's day, said: ''If you had four of him, you'd have a championship team. He could make that much of a difference.''
        Stautner missed only six games in his N.F.L. career, and those only because of fractures of his ribs, shoulder, hands and nose. His No. 70 jersey is the only one the Steelers have formally retired.
        Ernst Alfred Stautner was born on April 20, 1925, in Prinzing-by-Cham in Bavaria. His family moved to the United States when he was 3, and he grew up in East Greenbush, N.Y., near Albany.
        After serving in the Marine Corps during World War II, he attended Boston College, where he was a four-year starter as an offensive and defensive tackle. He earned a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1950 and was chosen by the Steelers in the N.F.L. draft.
        He married the former Jill Vance in 1991. He is survived by two daughters from a previous marriage, Teresa Stautner of Corpus Christi, Tex., and Carol Hinds of Denver; three stepdaughters, J. J. Gora of Denver and Jordan and Emily Stautner of Vail; a sister, Hedwig Hoffman of Kent, Conn.; and six grandchildren.
        After his playing career, Stautner coached for three decades. Under his close friend, the head coach Tom Landry, he was the Dallas Cowboys' defensive line coach (1966-1972) and defensive coordinator (1973-1988). He was also an assistant coach with the Steelers (1963-64), the Washington Redskins (1965) and the Denver Broncos (1991-93). He went on to become head coach of the Dallas Texans in the Arena League (1990) and the Frankfurt Galaxy of NFL Europe (1995-97).
        In his three seasons with Frankfurt, his team won one championship game and lost another. Pete Abitante, a spokesman for NFL Europe, said yesterday:
        ''Ernie brought credibility to the league at a time when the league was relaunched as a Europe-only league. His popularity in Germany and the impact he made in establishing American football in Europe were substantial and long-lasting.''
      