
        Sandra W. Meyer, a pioneering marketing executive who was part of the inspiration for the long-running Broadway drama ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. She was 60 and the cause of death was breast cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Meyer held senior-level executive positions at some of the nation's largest and best-known companies at a time when women worked mainly in the administrative ranks.
        She became the first woman product-group manager at the General Foods Corporation, in 1969; the first woman president of a division of the American Express Company, in 1980, and the first woman senior officer to run corporate affairs at Citicorp, in 1989.
        Mrs. Meyer, who lived in New York, was known as a brilliant marketer and strategic thinker. At General Foods, which merged with Kraft Foods in 1995, she ran marketing campaigns for some of the biggest brands, including Maxwell House coffee. She joined American Express in 1976 as head of worldwide marketing for the credit card and was later promoted to president of the communications division.
        At Citicorp, as senior officer for corporate affairs and a member of the company's senior management team, Mrs. Meyer was widely credited with restoring the reputation of the banking company after it had gone through a financial crisis. In 1993, Mrs. Meyer left the position Citicorp created for her to become a senior partner at the Clark & Weinstock management consulting firm, a position she held until her death.
        Mrs. Meyer had also been a managing director of Russell Reynolds Associates, a corporate search firm.
        Her life and work were part of the inspiration for the Broadway play ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' which was written by her sister, Wendy Wasserstein.
        The play revolves around Sara Rosensweig, a twice-divorced Jewish-American banker who is visited on her 54th birthday by her two sisters. The middle one, Gorgeous, the group leader of the Beth El Sisterhood of Newton, Mass., is ostensibly a happily married mother of four who is trying to start a career as a radio talk-show host. The youngest, Pheni, is an international travel writer who also struggles to write serious books and fights with the man she loves -- a bisexual theater director.
        Mrs. Meyer served on several corporate boards, including Anchor Hocking and Horizons International Foods. She was managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a member of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Opera Guild. She was also one of the founding members of the Committee of 200, a group of the most senior executive women in the country.
        Mrs. Meyer graduated cum laude from Syracuse University with a bachelor's degree in history.
        In addition to her sister, Wendy Wasserstein, of New York, Mrs. Meyer is survived by two daughters; Jenifer Schweitzer, of New York and Samantha Schweitzer, of San Francisco; another sister, Georgette Levis, of Manchester, Vt.; a brother, Bruce Wasserstein, of New York, and her parents, Lola and Morris Wasserstein, of New York.
      