
        Rell Sunn, the Hawaiian surfer who skimmed across the waves with such sure and natural grace that she sometimes seemed at one with the sea, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Makaha on the island of Oahu. She was 47.
        Ms. Sunn won international fame as a surfing champion and captured the heart of Hawaii during a stirring 14-year battle with breast cancer.
        To the international surfing world, Ms. Sunn was the longboard champion who challenged the men on their own surf and helped make the sport safe for women as a founder of the first women's professional tour.
        Hawaiians considered her a state treasure who used her fame to celebrate Hawaiian culture.
        By the time her cancer was diagnosed in 1983, Ms. Sunn had established the credentials that would qualify her to become one of the first five women inducted into the International Surfing Museum's Walk of Fame in Huntington Beach, Calif.
        A native of Makaha, a small town on Oahu's leeward coast, about 25 miles northwest of Honolulu, Ms. Sunn grew up just three blocks from one of the world's most storied surfing beaches, a reef-ringed stretch of water where big waves abound and the surf is almost always up.
        Riding a surfboard almost every day from the age of 4, Ms. Sunn entered her first amateur meet at 16, but quickly ran up against a hard fact of surfing life. Although women had surfed alongside men in Hawaii for centuries, since the arrival of Western missionaries in the 19th century their participation had been discouraged. In the 1950's, boys rode the boards, and girls stayed on the beach, tanning their bodies and looking good in bikinis.
        With virtually no competition for women, Ms. Sunn entered men's events, almost always making the finals. By 1975, she and other pioneers, like Joyce Hoffman and Linda Benson, had inspired enough women to take up the sport that Ms. Sunn was able to help found the Women's Professional Surfing Association and establish the first professional tour for women.
        Riding the waves around the world, she competed in California, Australia, South Africa, France and elsewhere. In 1982, she became the top-ranked woman on the longboard.
        Ms. Sunn had a mastectomy, a bone marrow transplant and so much chemotherapy that she lost her luxuriant amber hair five times, but never her good humor. Typically, the only concession she would make to the disease was to wear a bathing cap when surfing.
        After an impatient hospital stay she would wheedle permission from her doctors to return home, but only after they had made her promise to go straight to bed and stay there. As soon as she got home, Ms. Sunn would go straight to the beach. Surfing, she said, was the best therapy.
        In October she was able to paddle around the island of Molokai with friends, but she weakened rapidly after that.
        On New Year's Day, the woman who once described her cancer as ''the biggest wave ever,'' was taken to the beach on a stretcher to satisfy her last wish, to taste the sea on her lips one more time.
        She died the next day, and two weeks later thousands of people gathered at Makaha Beach for a memorial service she had planned.
        After her ashes were scattered over the water, several hundred surfers made a final ride with Ms. Sunn, whose middle name, Kapolioka'ehukai, means ''heart of the sea.''
        Ms. Sunn, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Dave Parmenter; a daughter, Jan Carreira of Los Angeles; her parents, Elbert and Roen Sunn of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; a brother Eric of Makaha, and three sisters, Val Fenwick of Kailua-Kona, Anella Dehr of Makawao, Hawaii, and Kula Sunn of Haiku, Hawaii.
      