
        Nicole Maxwell, a free-spirited San Francisco debutante who plunged into the remote Amazon jungles of Ecuador and Peru and came out with a trove of medicinal plants that she said Indians used to cure virtually every known ailment, died on May 5 in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 92, and left no immediate survivors.
        Mrs. Maxwell, the author of the 1961 book ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice,'' had spent the last decades of her life in largely vain efforts to interest drug companies in her discoveries.
        For a woman who was the toast of Paris in the 1920's, dancing ballet with the Opera, dallying with a raft of admirers and posing nude for artists, Mrs. Maxwell made an abrupt change in her life: After a 12-year marriage to an Air Force officer ended in 1945 (''I married a lieutenant and divorced a brigadier general''), she headed to South America to visit friends in Bolivia, later saying that since she had never been attracted to Latin men, she hoped to avoid distracting entanglements.
        Whatever the distractions, Mrs. Maxwell stayed in South America for 12 years, running the first shoe-string tourist service in Lima, Peru, and later becoming a roving correspondent for The Lima Times.
        It was during a chance venture into the jungle on a visit to Quito, Ecuador, in 1947 that Mrs. Maxwell first became fascinated with the jungles of the upper Amazon basin and its indigenous tribes.
        Hacking her way through the jungle with an Indian guide the next year, she suffered a deep machete gash on her arm and made the discovery that would change her life.
        With Mrs. Maxwell wondering whether she would bleed to death or die from infection, the guide ran into the jungle, returned with some dark red tree sap and had her drink it. When the bleeding stopped within minutes and the wound healed rapidly without a scar, Mrs. Maxwell knew she had found her life's work: ferreting out remedies used by the Indians for centuries and introducing them to the modern world.
        The very idea of medicine struck a chord deep in her psyche. Growing up in a wealthy Christian Science family in San Francisco, Mrs. Maxwell had harbored a grudge against the religion ever since she broke her arm when she was 9 and was denied medical treatment until she went to a doctor on her own.
        It was a streak of independence that would resurface a few years later when she contracted a teen-age marriage of convenience simply to escape her family, then obtained a divorce as soon as the couple reached Paris.
        During her later marriage, when her Air Force husband was posted to Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Maxwell talked the chairman of the Harvard biology department into helping her sign up for postgraduate courses.
        By the time her husband was transferred to Ohio, Harvard professors had arranged for her to continue her studies at Ohio State. But when her husband was transferred to Washington a couple of years later, her unofficial formal education came to an end because Georgetown University would not admit women.
        In the decade after her machete experience, Mrs. Maxwell made dozens of expeditions to the remotest regions of the upper Amazon, befriending the local Indians and slowly learning the secrets of their vast medical lore. To Indians whose experience with outsiders had been as victims of armed rubber merchants, an unarmed woman posed no threat.
        In 1958, after obtaining a small grant from a drug company, Mrs. Maxwell made a special expedition, obtaining samples of many of the plants whose medicinal properties she had been carefully cataloguing.
        When she returned and shipped her plants, including what she said was a variety of highly effective contraceptives, to the drug company, she was dismayed to discover that the company had regarded her trek as a publicity stunt and had no scientific interest in her findings.
        Hoping to salvage something from her work, she wrote ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice.'' More adventure story than medical manual, the book, revised in 1975 and in 1990 (Citadel Press), nevertheless described a host of plants she said the Indians used to prevent tooth decay, painlessly extract teeth, dissolve kidney stones, heal burns and cure or prevent scores of other maladies.
        Mrs. Maxwell returned to South America and continued her research until 1986, eventually collecting more than 350 plants used to treat more than 100 common ailments.
        While her work was shunned by drug companies, Mrs. Maxwell, who made her home in Iquitos, Peru, became a heroine to a coterie of enthusiasts who would make pilgrimages to the compound where she held court to pay tribute, sometimes with unsettling results.
        Once when an avid photographer of exotic birds gushingly exclaimed that she must be very familiar with the birds of South America, Mrs. Maxwell acknowledged that she was, ''mainly by taste.''
        Her dream that the plants of the upper Amazon would become a multibillion-dollar cash crop and halt the destruction of the rain forest eluded her. But Mrs. Maxwell, who had been working with a Mississippi State scientist to produce a technical manual on Amazon remedies, remained confident that her work would be eventually be recognized by mainstream science.
        ''As soon as I'm gone,'' she told a friend, ''they'll come running.''
      