
        P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati. She was 91 and lived in Clifton, Ohio.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, said Janet Light, a friend.
        Miss Manchester disliked and never used her given name, Phyllis Winifred. She signed her reviews with her first initials and was known to friends and colleagues as Bill. Dance was her passion and she witnessed the final days of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, the birth of the company that became the Royal Ballet and the formative years of the New York City Ballet.
        She could also speak authoritatively on subjects like world literature, the British royal family and baseball, a sport she became devoted to after moving to New York in 1951. She even occasionally served as a radio sports commentator in Cincinnati, discussing baseball games in a refined British accent.
        Miss Manchester came to the United States to work as associate editor and principal critic for Dance News, a monthly magazine, and, with its founder, Anatole Chujoy, co-edited  The Dance Encyclopedia, published in 1967. She also wrote dance criticism for The Christian Science Monitor during the 1960's.
        Miss Manchester was born in London and worked there as a dance critic for Theater World magazine from 1941 to 1943.
        She attracted widespread attention in 1942 with ''Vic-Wells: A Ballet Progress,'' a book appraising the company now known as the Royal Ballet. The work was considered so shrewd that Miss Manchester was often asked if she had personal connections to the company's staff. But at the time, she had none. That same year, however, she became directly involved with another troupe by serving as secretary to Marie Rambert, director of the Ballet Rambert.
        Miss Manchester resigned in 1946 to found a monthly magazine called Ballet Today. Its success and her succinct prose led Mr. Chujoy to invite her to Dance News. When Mr. Chujoy died in 1969, he willed her his magazine. But she decided to sell it and accept an offer to teach at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, remaining there until she retired in 1993.
        She also taught at the University of Utah and the North Carolina School of the Arts and was an adjudicator, arranging programs for regional ballet festivals.
        Miss Manchester took an active part in Cincinnati civic life and for several years was host of a weekly radio dance program there. In 1975, a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts enabled her to prepare a series of radio programs on dance history. She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1988.
        She is survived by nieces and nephews in Britain and the United States.
      