
        Dr. Emily Mudd, a onetime college dropout who trained to be a landscape architect before the trajectory of her life and her own inner fire led her to become a pioneering marriage and family counselor, died on Saturday at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 99 and widely regarded as a giant of the field she helped create.
        At a time when more than 25,000 American marriage counselors treat some 2 million troubled marriages a year, it might seem a shade surprising that in 1933, when Mrs. Mudd helped form the Philadelphia Marriage Council, the field was so new there were only two other such organizations in the country.
        There were also no established training programs for marriage counselors, which might help explain why her fellow organizers asked Mrs. Mudd to run the Philadelphia program even though she did not have an academic degree.
        But she did have a few other credentials. For one thing, she and her husband, Stuart, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania, had helped start Pennsylvania's first birth control clinic six years earlier, and her experiences there dealing with often overburdened and sometimes abused wives had led her to see the need for broader family counseling.
        Then, too, Mrs. Mudd was the only wife and mother among the academics and social work specialists who met at the Mudds' home to plan the marriage council.
        The men were so impressed with their hostess's drive, insights, intuition and commitment that after an elaborate search for a qualified professional, they decided she would be the best person to run the council. It certainly would have been hard to find anyone more dedicated to social change and human improvement.
        As a student at Vassar when the United States entered World War I, she was so determined to do her part for the cause that she helped form a Vassar unit of the women's Land Army, established to have women work the fields in place of mobilized farmers.
        Her own role in that unit and as a Vassar student came to an end when she drank some fetid water, developed typhoid fever and was advised to avoid stuffy classrooms and seek a career in the fresh air. Accordingly, she studied landscape architecture at a school in Groton, Mass., but before she could begin a career she was diverted by romance.
        After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mudd spent a decade as her husband's unpaid laboratory assistant, first at Harvard, later at the Rockefeller Institute in New York and then at the Henry Phipps Institute in Philadelphia, winning credit as co-author of 14 of his scientific papers.
        After being asked to run the new Philadelphia Marriage Council, she returned to college. Working part time until she obtained a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Mudd, who eventually received her doctorate there, became the council's full-time executive director in 1936 and held the post until her retirement in 1967.
        Along the way she helped lay the groundwork for virtually every aspect of professional marriage and family counseling. She formed one of the first counselor training programs, developed the first program to measure counselor effectiveness, wrote several textbooks and lectured widely here and abroad.
        Only the third woman to be named to the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania's medical school, Dr. Mudd, who later became the first woman to become a full professor there, taught the first course at an American medical school dealing with sexuality, a speciality that led her to help edit Alfred Kinsey's book on female sexuality and to work closely with the Masters and Johnson clinic in St. Louis, to which she contributed thousands of case histories from her own practice.
        After her retirement from the Philadelphia Marriage Council, now affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Mudd, who remarried after her first husband's death in 1975, continued to see patients well into her 80's. She also found time to pursue her old landscaping speciality by developing elaborate gardens at her suburban home.
        She is survived by two sons, John, of Cambridge, Mass., and Harvey, of Bethesda, Md.; two daughters, Margaret, of Cold Spring, N.Y., and Emily Mitchell of Concord, Mass.; 10 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      