
        Sybil Connolly, who designed the linen dress that Jacqueline Kennedy wore in her White House portrait and who elevated Irish style to high fashion, died on Wednesday at her home in Dublin. She was 77.
        She had a heart attack, said a family member, John Connolly.
        Miss Connolly, whose popularity spanned almost a half century, brought her collection to New York in 1953. She introduced gossamer hand-pleated handkerchief linen, which required nine yards of fabric to pleat into one yard; spidery Carrickmacross lace and a sophisticated palette of hand-woven Irish Donegal tweeds. She was an early exponent of soft and casual clothes when Parisian designers were featuring rigid construction.
        ''I must see movement in a dress,'' she once said. ''A woman's body is inside. It breathes. It moves.''
        Miss Connolly was an active designer until her death. For many years, most of her designs were sold in this country to Rockefellers, DuPonts and scores of other clients with  social names, many at private showings. She also received clients at her 270-year-old mansion on Merrion Square, one of the most fashionable areas of Dublin.
        One of Miss Connolly's most unusual assignments was designing modern habits for three orders of Catholic nuns: the Sisters of Mercy of the United States and the Bon Secour and Marie Repatrice orders of Ireland.
        Miss Connolly played an important role in the revival of Irish handicrafts, including crochet, handwoven woolens, basketwork and the development of fragrances. ''A shop window for Ireland'' was how she described her five-story headquarters.
        She was often inspired by the clothes favored by rural Irish women. A hooded cloak worn in Kinsale was translated into an elegant velvet evening cape. An unbleached woolen yarn, knitted in different patterns and used in Aran Isles fishermen's sweaters, became an unusual sports outfit. Black Irish shawls and scarlet flannel petticoats were also adapted for more urban tastes.
        In addition to her fashion collections, Miss Connolly designed fabrics and wallcoverings for Brunschwig & Fils and Schumacher, and crystal and china for Tiffany & Company. She wrote several books on Irish houses, gardens and crafts, and houses she decorated were featured in a number of magazines.
        Miss Connolly was born in Swansea, Wales, on January 24, 1921, the  daughter of an insurance man originally from Waterford, Ireland, and a half-Welsh, half-English mother. She is survived by a sister, Judy Connolly of Dublin.
        Her Welsh grandfather, a country squire and scholar, taught her Greek philosophy and private tutors coached her in other subjects. After her father's death, while she was still a teen-ager, she and her mother went  to Ireland, where her only formal education was two years in a convent school.
        Her fashion career began in 1938 as an apprentice at Bradley's, a prestigious dressmaking establishment in London. Dowager Queen Mary was a client and Miss Connolly always recalled that at Buckingham Palace fittings ''I was allowed to hold the pins.''
        She returned to Ireland in 1940 and joined a Dublin specialty shop as a buyer. Within a decade, she replaced the shop's designer, who had emigrated to the United States. In 1952 her career took a leap forward when a group of Philadelphia matrons, under the auspices of that city's Fashion Group, touched down in Dublin and discovered her.
      