
        Carole Kent Kneeland, vice president for news at KVUE-TV in Austin, Tex., and one of the first television news directors to de-emphasize sensational crime and introduce ''truth tests'' in news reports about political advertising, died on Monday at her home in Austin. She was 49.
        She died of breast cancer, family members said.
        Ms. Kneeland's Austin station, a Gannett-owned ABC affiliate, attracted considerable attention two years ago when it instituted ''community standards'' guidelines for deciding when to broadcast a story about a local crime. Under the policy, a crime story is broadcast only if news executives can answer ''yes'' to such questions as: Is there an immediate threat to public safety? Is there a significant community impact? Do viewers need to take some kind of action?
        The approach has been adopted by several stations around the nation with varying results. At KVUE, the station has maintained its top ratings position for news in the Austin area in most ratings sweeps.
        The policy developed by Ms. Kneeland and Cathy McFeaters, who is now news director, is not without critics, and at least one competitor has derided the station for ''filtering its news.'' Under the policy, for instance, the station declined to broadcast a story about three drifters who shot and killed one another after a night of heavy drinking.
        But Ms. Kneeland strongly defended the decision. ''We are asking, 'Why do I care?' about stories concerning money, or the raising and lowering of interest rates, and other subjects,'' she complained in a 1996 interview. ''But for crime stories, we only asked, 'Are the pictures good, and can we go live?' ''
        In 1990 she initiated a ''truth test'' format for political advertising, in which the station would prepare news reports analyzing candidates' claims in such ads.
        A native of Salem, Ore., she was a graduate of the University of Washington.
        She is survived by her husband, Dave McNeely, political columnist for the Austin American-Statesman; her parents, Sandy and Lorrainne Kent of Austin; two stepdaughters, Michelle Mueller of Houston and Candace McGriffy of Austin; and a brother, Gale Kent of Littleton, Colo.
      