
        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.
        Her family said the cause was cancer.
        Though Dr. Lansing was not the first to investigate women's voting patterns, the issue received little serious attention until she published the first persuasive statistical evidence that women form a distinctive voting bloc.
        The dominant view had been that if women did not mimic their husbands' voting patterns, their attitudes at least reflected the same mix of socioeconomic and ethnic factors, among others.
        If it seems surprising that those quaint views survived into the 1970's, it must be at least partly because Dr. Lansing came late to scholarship.
        A native of Geneva, Fla., Dr. Lansing, who was born Marjorie Tillis, graduated from the old Florida State College for Women in Gainesville, taught high school in Sanford, Fla., and made a life-changing trip to Europe.
        Attracted to the political left since college, she raised money for the Spanish loyalist cause from fellow passengers on the voyage over, and after a heady tour of the continent returned to the United States eager to attend graduate school.
        After receiving a master's in sociology from Columbia in 1940, she worked as a Government researcher in Washington and met and married a young economist named John Lansing. She set up housekeeping in Cambridge, Mass., while he completed his doctorate at Harvard and she plunged into the local leftist political scene, campaigning for Henry Wallace in the 1948 Presidential race.
        A high-spirited woman with an engaging manner, Dr. Lansing made a powerful impact on at least one political associate. According to family legend, after a single political meeting in Boston, the actor Zero Mostel was so taken with Dr. Lansing that he followed her to a bus stop, pretended he was her abandoned husband and in an impromptu performance worthy of the Broadway stage made an impassioned plea that she return to him and their babies.
        In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.
        She is survived by two sons, Steve, of Ann Arbor, and Philip, of Boise, Idaho; a daughter, Carol, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and six grandchildren.
        By the time she obtained her doctorate in 1970, Dr. Lansing had come up with the findings that would make her reputation in feminist political circles. But it had taken some doing. When she proposed as a doctoral dissertation a study that she expected would establish that women's voting patterns were significantly different from men's, her professors were so convinced there was no difference that they tried to discourage her.
        She persisted, and the dissertation she turned in was essentially the same book she and a statistician, Sandra Baxter, published in 1980.
        One reason for the delay between the dissertation and the book was that after her husband died in 1970, she concentrated on her teaching at Eastern Michigan while stepping up her political activities, unsuccessfully running for several offices, including a House seat.
        She fared better as a scholar, analyzing a variety of political opinion and exit polls to establish that women's voting patterns were different from men's and that the differences were statistically significant.
        To those who had assumed that women followed men's voting patterns, her most surprising finding was that the greatest sex difference was not on home-and-hearth issues like the economy and education but in foreign affairs, particularly military issues, with women being distinctly less hawkish than men.
        Although dozens of similar studies have since been published, Dr. Lansing's work is still cited by scholars.
        It is a measure of Dr. Lansing's prescience, if not of her influence, that three years after her landmark study, ''Women in Politics: The Invisible Majority,'' was published by the University of Michigan Press, a revised edition carried the subtitle, ''The Visible Majority.''
        Correction:  June 27, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on May 11 about Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist, misstated the location of her alma mater, Florida State College for Women. The college, now known as Florida State University, is in Tallahassee, not Gainesville. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.
      