
        Clara Rockmore, a musician who was trained as a violinist but became famous principally as a soloist on the theremin, an early electronic instrument, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88.
        The theremin, invented in 1920 by Leon Theremin, produces a pure, eerie, sliding tone that has been compared to a disembodied, wordless soprano voice or an enchanted cello. In recent years, thanks in part to the 1994 film ''Theremin: An Electronic Odyssey,'' the instrument has developed a cult following, as has Ms. Rockmore, who appeared in the movie. She was also the focus of a video documentary, ''Clara Rockmore, the Greatest Theremin Virtuosa,'' released last month.
        Describing Ms. Rockmore's performances, Steve Martin, the director of the theremin film, said, ''Clara is to the theremin what Andres Segovia and Jimi Hendrix combined are to the guitar.''
        Ms. Rockmore was born Clara Reisenberg in Vilna (now Vilnius) in Lithuania. She showed considerable talent as a violinist before she was 4, and in 1915 she became the youngest musician ever admitted to the St. Petersburg Conservatory. Her principal teacher there was Leopold Auer, whose other students had included Mischa Elman and Jascha Heifetz.
        In the mid-1920's, Ms. Rockmore moved to New York, where she resumed her studies with Auer, who had also immigrated. After a few years, however, she began to have muscular and joint problems that curtailed her career as a violinist. At around the same time, she met Theremin and decided to study his electronic instrument. She became his student and close friend; for her 18th birthday, he made her a cake that lit up and revolved whenever anyone approached. Ms. Rockmore's influence on the instrument itself included suggesting structural changes to improve its articulation.
        Ms. Rockmore gave one of the first theremin concerts in the United States, in 1934. The composer Anis Fuleihan wrote a concerto for her, and she performed as a soloist with several orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Toronto Symphony.
        Ms. Rockmore is survived by a sister, Anna Sherman of Manhattan.
      