
        Mary Elizabeth Grenander, a longtime professor of English who was an authority on the American writer Ambrose Bierce, known for his satirical wit and his horror stories, died in her sleep on Thursday at her home in East Berne, N.Y. She was 79.
        Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Grenander, taught at the State University of New York at Albany  from 1948 until she retired in 1989 as a Distinguished Service Professor of English. She was a former president of the New York American Studies Association.
        Her many writings about Bierce, who was born in 1842 and went to Mexico in 1913 and vanished, appeared during more than two decades. Analyzing horror stories he wrote, she once said: ''The actual situation is harmful, with the protagonist conceiving it to be harmless and reacting accordingly.''
        She edited and wrote the introduction for the book ''Poems of Ambrose Bierce'' (1995, Nebraska), which the literary journal American Notes and Queries, or ANQ, called ''a provocative volume'' that ''should spark further interest in Bierce.''
        Professor Grenander received a Fulbright Fellowship and grants from institutions including the National Endowment for the Humanities, the New York Council for the Humanities and the Rockefeller Foundation.
        She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994. Lisa James of the university's Office of University Relations said that Professor Grenander and her husband prospered ''through long-term investments in the stock market.''
        She was born in Rewey, Wis., and received bachelor's and master's degrees and a doctorate, all in English from the University of Chicago, in the 1940's.
        Her marriage to Jean Louis Auclair ended in divorce. She married Professor Corbett in 1972.
        She is survived by two sisters, Charlotte White of Puyallup, Wash.,  and Karen Hanley of Miami, Fla.
      