
        Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday. She was 92.
        Ms. Jones was an iconic figure, and an important historic link in a path-breaking generation of black American artists. Her eclectic, academic work, in a career spanning nearly 70 years, ranged from impressionistic landscapes to political allegories, and from cubistic depictions of African sculptures to realistic portraits.
        She was influential as a teacher, not only for her exacting standards and the encouragement she gave students, but as an example of persistence in a climate unfavorable to black and women artists.
        Ms. Jones was born in Boston in 1905. Her mother was a beautician, her father a building superintendent who became a lawyer. In high school she took evening drawing classes at Boston's Museum of Fine Arts and she had her first solo show at 17 on Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts. There she met the sculptor Meta Vaux Warrick Fuller, one of the first artists to use black and African subjects positively, who encouraged her ambitions.
        After graduate study in art and design in Boston, and then a stint teaching art at Palmer Memorial Institute in Sedalia, N.C., Ms. Jones joined the faculty of Howard University in 1930.
        The next year, her work was included in the biennial exhibition of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington. It was the first of several appearances at the Corcoran and in  other group shows, though Ms. Jones  said that early on she asked white friends to deliver her paintings to exhibitions, after having had an award rescinded when it was discovered that she was black.
        In 1934, while attending a summer session at Columbia University, she was exposed to the cultural life of Harlem, and began studying the African masks that would become central to her best-known paintings.
        In 1937, she received a fellowship to travel to Europe. She studied in Paris for a year and produced one of her most widely exhibited paintings, ''Les Fetiches'' (1938), an image of five African masks rendered in a  modernist style. The work has become an emblem of black American self-identity and is on view in the exhibition ''Rhapsodies in Black: Art of the Harlem Renaissance'' at the Corcoran Gallery, where a small memorial show of the artist's work has been organized.
        After marrying the Haitian artist Louis Vergniaud Pierre-Noel in 1953, Ms. Jones visited Haiti frequently, and in the 1960's and '70's she traveled in Africa. There she interviewed contemporary artists as part of a  project sponsored by Howard University titled ''The Black Visual Artists,'' for which she also documented the work of artists in the Caribbean and the United States. Both Haitian and African themes were crucial to her work.
        Throughout these years, Ms. Jones taught at Howard University and elsewhere. She instructed generations of black artists, among them the contemporary sculptor Martha Jackson-Jarvis and the painter and collagist David C. Driskell, and some of whom, like Mr. Driskell, are also  teachers.
        Ms. Jones retired as professor emeritus from Howard in 1977 but continued her career as an artist and lecturer, and exhibited in the United States, Europe and Asia. In 1980, she was one of 10 Africa-American artists honored by President Jimmy Carter for outstanding achievement in the arts, and she received honorary degrees from several American colleges and universities. Her work is in numerous public collections, among them those of the National Museum of American Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington and the Museum of Fine Art.
        Ms. Jones's husband died in 1982 and she has no immediate survivors.
      