
        Jeanette Nolan, who began her film career 50 years ago as Lady Macbeth opposite Orson Welles and is now being seen as the mother of the character played by Robert Redford in ''The Horse Whisperer,'' died on June 5 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Miss Nolan, who lived in Hollywood, was 86.
        She had suffered a stroke a week earlier, said her daughter, Holly Wright of Charlottesville, Va., and Manhattan.
        Miss Nolan's 70-year career in acting also included roles in theater, radio and television.
        In the 1930's, long before Montana became a popular hideaway for show business stars, Miss Nolan and her husband, John McIntire, an actor whom she married in 1935, maintained a log cabin in the Rockies 3 miles from the Canadian border and 14 miles from the nearest mail drop. There they watched the stars through a skylight in the roof, fished for trout off the back porch, bagged an occasional bear or deer for food, trapped beavers (whose fur became a coat for Miss Nolan) and weathered temperatures of 55 below zero. She baked her own bread, churned her butter and in one year, she said, put up 500 quarts of vegetables, fruit and venison.
        When the couple needed to replenish their capital -- Mr. McIntire said all you needed in Montana was a $200-a-year grubstake -- they would come to New York and star in radio programs.
        On Sunday nights, for example, Mr. McIntire was the ''Crime Doctor'' on CBS, and Miss Nolan the woman he psychoanalyzed. They appeared frequently on ''Cavalcade of America,'' where Miss Nolan once played Ann Rutledge to her husband's Abe Lincoln. Fridays would find them on Philip Morris's ''Perfect Crime.''
        ''I might play the murderer and Jeanette the moll,'' Mr. McIntire said. ''Or things like that.''
        Miss Nolan, who could produce an Irish dialect or Spanish, Italian, German or Russian accent on demand, also appeared on CBS's ''Big Sister'' series and ''The Court of Missing Heirs.'' The busy days of rehearsals and broadcasts often lasted 15 hours.
        After Miss Nolan made her film debut in 1948 opposite Welles's Macbeth, she performed in well over 20 films, including ''Words and Music'' (1948), ''No Sad Songs for Me'' (1950), ''The Big Heat'' (1953), ''The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance'' (1962), ''The Rescuers'' (1977), ''True Confessions'' (1981) and ''Cloak and Dagger'' (1984).
        On television, where she earned four Emmy nominations, Miss Nolan appeared on more than 300 programs, including ''Perry Mason,'' ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''Richard Diamond, Private Detective,'' ''I Spy,'' ''The F.B.I.,'' ''Charlie's Angels'' and ''MacGyver.'' She also had three series of her own: ''Hotel de Paree,'' ''The Richard Boone Show'' and ''Dirty Sally,'' a spinoff of ''Gunsmoke.''
        Miss Nolan, one of three children of Ada and Edward Nolan, a union official, was born in Los Angeles in 1911. Short of money as a student of theater arts at Los Angeles City College in the Depression, she took a classmate's suggestion that she audition for a radio show. Asked if she could do a Scottish dialect, she did it and three others. She was hired at once and never stopped working.
        Mr. McIntire died in 1991. Their son, Tim, also an actor, died in 1986 when he was 42. Besides her daughter, Miss Nolan is survived by her sister, Miriam Walker of Ashland, Ore., and a grandson.
      