
        Mary Bancroft Boulton, a psychotherapist who helped introduce to New York City the practice of transactional analysis, which tries to help a patient correct self-destructive behavior patterns in relationships with other people, died at her home in Greenwich Village on May 30. She was 86.
        Transactional analysis became popular after Dr. Eric Berne published ''Games People Play'' in 1964 (reissued in paperback by Ballantine Books in 1996). Dr. Boulton studied with Dr. Berne in San Francisco, then brought the new therapy to New York in 1966 when she founded the New York Transactional Analysis Seminar with Dr. Marian Weisberg and Dr. Barbara Rosenfeld.
        Transactional analysis, often done in group therapy, delves into the multiple roles each person plays, as a child or parent, for example. One of Dr. Boulton's sons, John Bancroft, said, ''She would often say to me, 'Well, that's your child speaking,' or, 'That's your parent speaking.' ''
        Dr. Boulton was also concerned with the roles thrust upon her patients, particularly women, by society.
        In one article, she said patients not only needed to escape from the smothering influence of demanding parents but also needed to defy ''the 'big guns' of our culture -- traditional religious teaching, educational practice, literature, television, and the toys and games which are prescribed for boys and girls.''
        The New York seminar, modeled after one run by Dr. Berne, was open to any psychotherapists who wanted to learn the new therapy, Dr. Weisberg said.
        The seminar met until 1973, when Dr. Boulton and Dr. Weisberg opened the Gotham Institute for Transactional Analysis, a training institute that closed in 1978. Dr. Boulton continued her private practice until she retired in 1990.
        Dr. Boulton was born Mary Elizabeth Holzman in Cincinnati on Aug. 9, 1911. She received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Cincinnati in 1932 and a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania in 1935. She received her Ph.D. in 1980 from Northern Indiana University.
        She married Frank Bancroft in 1935, and they were both active in left-wing causes.
        Mr. Bancroft died in 1959. Dr. Boulton married John Wallace in 1962; the marriage ended in divorce.
        Dr. Boulton married Schroeder Boulton in 1965, and their home in Greenwich Village became a gathering spot for people in civil rights and antiwar work, Mr. Bancroft said.
        Dr. Boulton is survived by her husband; three sons, Carter Bancroft, of Huntington, N.Y., and Michael and John Bancroft, both of Seattle; three stepdaughters, Janet Boulton, of New York, Nancy Boulton, of Lincoln, Mass., and Tiffany Wallace, of Lexington, Ky., and seven grandchildren.
      