
        Emily Whaley, a South Carolina woman with a green thumb and such an eye for color that she helped show flowering Charleston there was bloom beyond azaleas and camellias and turned her backyard into one of the nation's most acclaimed private gardens, died on Monday at her summer home in Flat Rock, N.C. She was 87 and had become something of celebrity since the publication of a memoir, ''Mrs. Whaley and her Charleston Garden,'' last year.
        Her family said the cause was a stroke.
        No one would mistake Mrs. Whaley's garden for, say, Longwood Gardens, but as home gardens go, the one she maintained for more than 50 years on a 30-foot by 100-foot plot behind her narrow 1754 white clapboard house at 58 Church Street, a block from the harbor in Charleston's historic district, has been a perennial eye-popper.
        Among other things it has been featured in books by Rosemary Vaerey and other garden writers and has been a fixture on the Historic Charleston Foundation's annual garden tours.
        The garden has been considered special partly because it was laid out in 1941 by a renowned landscape architect, Loutrell Briggs, who took full advantage of a brick carriage house, a couple of mighty oaks and a magnolia tree on neighboring properties as backdrops of opportunity for a design that included five distinct gardens, or ''rooms,'' as Mrs. Whaley called them.
        But mainly it was because Mrs. Whaley filled the Briggs design with repeated flair, adding a statue here, ripping out a bed of plants there and forever experimenting with new plants in varied combinations.
        That was not, to be sure, because she hadn't gotten it right the first time, but because her tastes changed every few years.
        Until her book, billed as ''a conversation with William Baldwin,'' a  South Carolina novelist, was published by Algonquin Books last year, Mrs. Whaley's fame had been largely local, but well established.
        One of the first local gardeners to dare to plant for year-round blooms in a city whose signature azaleas and camellias lose their blossoms in the torrid Charleston summers, Mrs. Whaley helped establish a trend of planting perennials like roses, gerbera daisies and hydrangeas, in front of the towering azalea and camellia shrubs.
        She was also one of the first to open her garden to the public to raise money for charities, a practice that attracted some 3,000 paying visitors a year and led some to call her garden the most visited private garden in the country.
        For Mrs. Whaley, an accomplished pianist and ballroom dancer who helped start the Cotillion, a dancing school that has become a Charleston social fixture, and once taught chess, gardening came more than naturally. It was, she liked to say, in her genes.
        The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
        After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
        With his wife confined to bed during a difficult pregnancy in the summer of 1941, Mr. Whaley asked if there was some special present she would like. She said yes, a garden designed by Loutrell Briggs.
        It took a few years for Mrs. Whaley to turn the Briggs blueprint into an actual garden, but once she got it growing, she did not neglect it.
        Working for several hours a day with her longtime assistant, Junior Robinson, she was a demon for pruning, a necessity in such a small garden with narrow brick walks.
        Mrs. Whaley was not sentimental about her plantings. Let a row of Italian cypresses grow too tall for her tastes and whack, they would be gone.
        A woman so attuned to the subtleties of nature that she was forever commenting on the weather and could become ecstatic over the feel of a gentle breeze on the back of her neck, Mrs. Whaley, if her book can be trusted, seemed comfortable speaking in epigrams.
        A secluded garden bench, for example, was ''a place to invite your soul for a visit.''
        For all her love of gardening, it was hardly her only love or her only talent. She also, its seems, had a way with the stove.
        In October, Algonquin is bringing out a second Whaley collaboration with Mr. Baldwin, a book of recipes and family stories, ''Mrs. Whaley Entertains.''
        Mrs. Whaley, whose husband died in 1987, is survived by three daughters, Emily Whipple, Anne Le Clercq and Martha Adams, all of Charleston, and seven grandchildren.
      