
        Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris. She was 91 and best known for her 1932 classic, ''I Know How to Cook.''
        In a country whose vaunted cuisine has been largely the province of men, the title of that book, Miss Mathiot's first, has a certain ring of defiance, and no wonder.
        Born in Paris in an era when women in France had far fewer career choices than they do today, Miss Mathiot, who was chastising the French cooking establishment as a sexist, male-dominated bastion long after opportunities for women improved, chafed at the restrictions from the beginning.
        If she couldn't do anything else, at least she could cook, and if anybody doubted her, it wasn't the generations of French homemakers who turned her book into the bible of the French kitchen.
        Raised in an austere household headed by her father, a Protestant minister, she was a brilliant student in secondary school, becoming a disciple of Simone Weil, the ascetic philosopher and mystic. But when she expressed an interest in studying medicine, she was persuaded instead to take teaching courses at the Sorbonne and eventually to specialize in the French version of home economics as a more appropriate outlet for a woman than medicine.
        She rose to the top of her academic field, becoming an inspector general in the French homemaking academy before French education authorities withdraw recognition of homemaking as an academic discipline.
        By her own account Miss Mathiot  garnered a total of seven marriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors on religious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiot considered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn't and bowed to her family's wishes.
        After she established a life and career away from her family, the proposals kept coming, but Miss Mathiot continued to reject them, she said, though for reasons of her own.
        If it was a father's stern will that forced her to become a home economics teacher, it was another man's inspired whim -- and a bit of luck -- that led her from the backwaters of education to the front burner of French cuisine.
        While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
        When leading authorities on French cuisine turned him down, Mr. Michel proposed the project to the head of a local college's science department, who also turned him down but set off a chain of recommendations that finally led Mr. Michel to the 23-year-old Miss Mathiot, who said yes.
        Her book, which included 2,000 recipes covering the canon of French cuisine from lobster bisque to crepe suzette, was an immediate sensation and paved the way for sequels, among them books on bread, pastry and even camping-trips cooking.
        In addition to emphasizing nutrition, Miss Mathiot's books appealed to family cooks because they showed how to keep food costs down while remaining true to the spirit of French cooking.
        Like ''The Joy of Cooking'' in the United States, ''I Know How to Cook'' and other Mathiot books served as primers for novice cooks, leading readers from the basics of food preparation through simple recipes to more elaborate concoctions.
        A woman who presided over what she saw as a kitchen with millions of stoves, Miss Mathiot, who leaves no immediate survivors, never took anything for granted.
        Anyone following a cake recipe, for example, might think the end had been reached with the instruction to remove the cake from the oven, but Miss Mathiot, mindful of the distractions of a triumphant moment, would have one more instruction: turn off the oven.
      