
        Gloria F. Ross, a widely known tapestry maker who brought painters and weavers together to create contemporary wall hangings, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, her son Clifford A. Ross said.
        Translating paint into wool, as she put it, Ms. Ross worked with Robert Motherwell, Louise Nevelson, Jean Dubuffet, Frank Stella, Jack Youngerman, Romare Bearden and more than two dozen other artists to make tapestries of their paintings. The actual weaving was done by professionals in Felletin, a small French town near Aubusson, and at the Dovecot Studios in Edinburgh, although Ms. Ross played a hands-on role in the process.
        During the 1980's, realizing that the chevrons and targets of Kenneth Noland's paintings were a perfect match for the Navajo loom and color range, Ms. Ross developed a series designed by Mr. Noland and hand-woven by Navajo weavers in Arizona and New Mexico.
        Her tapestries were collected by individuals, corporations and museums. Work by Motherwell and Helen Frankenthaler rendered as tapestries, for example, hangs in the entrance to the Philadelphia Convention Center, and museums owning Ross tapestries include the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Textile Museum in Washington and the Denver Art Museum.
        In 1997, although retired from professional work, Ms. Ross was active in the production of an ark curtain designed by Mark Podwol for Temple Emanu-El in New York. That year she also founded the Gloria F. Ross Center for Tapestry Studies in Tucson, Ariz., a nonprofit research institute and educational foundation. The center grew from her belief in tapestry as ''a vital contemporary art form with rich historical connections,'' said Dr. Ann Lane Hedlund, chairman of its board. The center sponsors public lectures, workshops, research projects and exhibitions devoted to tapestries, from prehistory to the present.
        During her travels in the Southwest, Ms. Ross collected Navajo rugs and other textiles of native design, which she donated to the Denver Art Museum. An exhibition of them organized by the museum and supported by the National Endowment for the Arts toured the country from 1992 to 1997, ending at the National Museum of the American Indian in New York.
        Born in New York on Sept. 5, 1923, Ms. Ross was the daughter of Justice Alfred Frankenthaler of the New York State Supreme Court and Martha Lowenstein Frankenthaler. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1943. Her first marriage, to Arthur Ross, ended in divorce in 1970. In 1975, she married Dr. John Bookman, a nutrition and diabetes specialist at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He died in 1988.
        Ms. Ross served on the Mount Holyoke College board of trustees from 1986 to 1991, and on the advisory board of the college's art museum from 1975 on. Since 1991 she had been an active trustee of the Textile Museum.
        Besides her son Clifford, she is survived by another son, Alfred F. Ross, of New York City; a daughter, Beverly Ross; two sisters, Marjorie Iseman and Helen Frankenthaler, the artist, both of New York; a stepdaughter, Ann Bookman of Brookline, Mass.; a stepson, Richard Bookman of Coral Gables, Fla.; two grandchildren, four step-grandchildren and her companion, Henry Kohn, also of New York.
        Correction:  June 26, 1998, Friday  An obituary of the tapestry designer Gloria F. Ross on Tuesday misstated the position of Dr. Ann Lane Hedlund at the Gloria F. Ross Center for Tapestry Studies in Tucson, Ariz. She is the center's director, not head of its board.
      