
        Jean Herzberg Lipman, an arts patron, collector, author of 26 art books and longtime editor of Art in America magazine, died on Saturday at her home in Carefree, Ariz. She was 88.
        Mrs. Lipman was a pioneering collector and proponent of American folk art who conceived and organized two major exhibitions for the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan, ''Young America: A Folk-Art History'' in 1986 and ''Five-Star Folk Art: One Hundred American Masterpieces'' in 1990. At her death she was working with the museum's director, Gerard C. Wertkin, on ''Folk Art Travelogue,'' an exhibition tracing the history of travel and transportation in America through folk art.
        ''Her research and publications remain essential to an understanding of American folk art,'' Mr. Wertkin said.
        Mrs. Lipman and her husband, Howard, also collected 20th-century sculpture and grew to be close friends of such artists as Alexander Calder, Louise Nevelson and David Smith. The Lipmans donated many works of art to the Museum of American Folk Art, where she was a trustee from 1965 to 1978 and then a trustee emeritus, and to the Whitney Museum of American Art, where Mr. Lipman was long a trustee, until his death in 1992, and had served as chairman.
        The Lipmans developed their interest in folk art soon after they purchased an 18th-century farmhouse in Wilton, Conn. in 1935 and began renovating it. By 1942, Mrs. Lipman had published her first book, ''American Primitive Painting'' (Oxford University Press), which remains a standard reference work. She became an authority on American folk carving and painted antique furniture in particular, and proficient in early decorative techniques and restoration.
        Over four decades, the Lipmans amassed a large folk art collection, part of which they sold in 1981 to the Museum of American Folk Art and to the New York State Historical Association in Cooperstown. More recently, Mrs. Lipman was a major donor to the Museum of American Folk Art: among her gifts is an important blanket chest attributed to the Vermont workshop of Thomas Matteson (circa 1825).
        In the 1950's, the Lipmans became active collectors of contemporary American sculpture and began an association with the Whitney. Their gifts to the museum included works by Calder, Jasper Johns, John Chamberlain, Robert Indiana and Robert Smithson.
        In the late 1930's, Mrs. Lipman began helping to edit Art in America, then a scholarly journal with a circulation of a few hundred. She became editor in 1930, overseeing the magazine's development into a highly influential art publication. She left Art in America in 1970 and in 1971 became editor of publications at the Whitney, where she also was a co-curator of several major exhibitions.
        Her books include ''Calder's Universe,'' which accompanied the Whitney's 1976 Calder retrospective, and ''The Flowering of American Folk Art'' (1974) with Alice Winchester.
        Born in New York City, Mrs. Lipman grew up in midtown Manhattan. She earned a bachelor's degree from Wellesley College and a master's degree in fine arts from New York University. She is survived by a son, Peter, of Portola Valley, Calif., and two grandsons.
        Mrs. Lipman's devotion to art eventually inspired her to try her own hand at it, combining painting and collage to depict desert landscapes and historical events and explore art world topics. In recent years her work has been exhibited in solo shows at several galleries and at the Arizona State University's Art Museum in Tempe. In May the university's College of Arts presented her with its Distinguished Achievement Award.
      