
        Maxine S. Pfeffer, an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan whose prosecutions ranged from drug dealing to international art theft, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long battle with cancer. She was 37.
        Ms. Pfeffer's achievements included her prosecution of 29 organized-crime figures in a major drug-trafficking case in 1994 and helping run a sensitive Justice Department investigation into allegations that high officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service had deliberately misled Congress about overcrowding and security problems in the agency's Florida operations.
        She had recently begun to specialize in art law. In one case last year that drew international attention, she prosecuted three people accused in the theft and attempted sale of more than $10 million worth of valuable drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Albrecht Durer.
        The drawings had come from a cache of artworks that was originally part of a collection looted from the Bremen Museum in Germany at the end of World War II.
        Bonnie Goldblatt, a United States Customs agent who worked on the case, said that Ms. Pfeffer -- whose friends called her Max -- loved art, and that they would visit museums together in what little spare time they had.
        ''She kept her plate full of art cases,'' Agent Goldblatt said.
        Ms. Pfeffer grew up in Brooklyn and attended Harvard, where she was an editor at The Crimson. After graduation in 1981 she worked for a year as a paralegal for Linda A. Fairstein, chief of the Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, before entering Harvard Law School.
        After graduating cum laude from there in 1985, Ms. Pfeffer worked for three years as an associate in the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. She specialized in commercial litigation, but also took on extensive pro bono work in capital punishment cases. She went to the United States Attorney's office for the Southern District in 1991 and later worked closely there with Mary Jo White, the chief Federal prosecutor.
        Ms. Pfeffer is survived by her husband, Khalid Chahi of Manhattan, a son, Sami, and her mother, Shirley Pfeffer of Brooklyn.
      