
        Catherine Kennedy, who after a  long struggle established one of the nation's first nursing centers for AIDS patients, died on Tuesday at her home in New Haven. She was 51.
        The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, family members said.
        Not long after moving to New Haven with her family in 1983, Mrs. Kennedy became aware of the lack of nursing centers and services for people with AIDS. Many were turned away by nursing homes. Some were being kept, at enormous expense, at hospitals essentially unequipped to treat them. Others were homeless.
        She resolved to open a nursing center for AIDS patients but constantly encountered obstacles. She waged an eight-year struggle against  financial and political obstacles to establish the home. Her experiences, which became a case study for the Harvard Business School, exemplified how someone involved in social entrepreneurship could overcome  great odds.
        After two years of research and attempts to raise money, she received a $60,000 grant from the Merck Family Fund. When she sought help from the State Legislature, she encountered indifference and fear of AIDS among the public, as well as hostility from legislators more interested in cutting health-care funds than increasing them.
        But she gained the help of Lucie McKinney, the widow of Representative Stewart McKinney, who had died of AIDS, to plead her case with Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.
        The Governor was persuaded and,  with others, gained passage of a bill to provide special funding for her project that included daily patient costs that were substantially less than full hospitalization and $3 million to renovate an old factory in New Haven.
        In 1995, the home opened in the reconverted factory as Leeway Inc.; Mrs. Kennedy ran it until last fall,  when she was forced to resign because of her illness. In that time about 150 patients have been treated.
        Catherine Urwin Kennedy was born on Feb. 12, 1947 in Wallsend, England. She received a bachelor of arts in economics and a master's in economic history from the University of East Anglia in England, where she later taught. She also earned a master's degree at Yale's school of management.
        She married Paul Kennedy, the author and Yale historian, in 1967.  Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, James and Matthew, of New Haven, and John, of New York, and two brothers and two sisters, all of England.
        It was through her affiliation with  Yale that she was able to apply for her patients' participation in the university's experimental research in  AIDS medication and treatment.
        Mrs. Kennedy's original goal was to build a home to shelter and care for dying patients. But today, Leeway staff members said, nearly half  of the patients can be sent home with reasonable chances of survival.  Among them was Fred Tyson, who is going back to work as a casting director in Hollywood.
        ''She got us involved,'' he said of Catherine Kennedy. ''And I truly believe I would not be alive if it weren't for her.''
      