
        Billie Dove, one of the most beautiful stars of silent films, died on Dec. 31 in the hospital of the Motion Picture and Television Fund in Los Angeles. She was 97 and lived in the fund's retirement community.
        A former Ziegfeld Follies dancer, she played a leading role in dozens of  silents and also had a brief Hollywood career in the early days of sound movies. Often she was cast as a damsel in distress, confidently awaiting rescue at the last minute by actors like Douglas Fairbanks, with whom she starred in ''The Black Pirate'' in 1926. After playing the title role in ''American Beauty'' the following year, she was billed as The American Beauty.
        Playing opposite everyone from Basil Rathbone to Eddie Cantor and Clara Bow, Miss Dove acted in a broad range of films: costume epics, war movies, westerns, romantic comedies. She was a Romanov princess in ''Adoration,'' a murderous chorus girl in ''One Night at Susie's,'' a French actress in ''Cock of the Air'' (produced by Howard Hughes and written by Robert E. Sherwood and Charles Lederer) and a Follies girl in ''Blondie of the Follies.''
        One role she did not get was in Frederick Lewis Allen's ''Only Yesterday.'' She had been considered, along with Gloria Stuart (currently featured in the movie ''Titanic''), but both were rejected in favor of Margaret Sullavan, then a New York stage actress.
        Miss Dove was born in New York City. Her name was Lillian Bohny, but she was known as Billie to her classmates. When a photographer told her she looked like a dove, she remembered the description and later adopted it as her professional surname. From the age of 10 she was a model. Florenz Ziegfeld reportedly saw her picture on a billboard advertisement and discovered her for his theatrical revues.
        In 1921, she entered the movies, beginning with ''Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford'' and ''At the Stage Door.'' ''The Black Pirate'' was a turning point in her career, and was followed by ''The Stolen Bride,'' ''The Tender Hour,'' ''The Love Mart,'' ''The Yellow Lily,'' ''The Night Watch'' and more than 30 others. In her private life, she was a pilot, a painter and a poet.
        Her first husband was Irving Willat, a film director. They were divorced in 1930. Three years later, she married Robert Kenaston, a rancher, and retired from films. After Mr. Kenaston died in 1973, she married John Miller, an architect. She and Mr. Miller were later divorced. In 1962, she returned to the screen in a bit part in ''Diamond Head.''
        She is survived by a daughter, Gail Adelson of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
      