
        Galina Brezhnev, the high-living daughter of the former Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev whose antics often led to scandal, died today in a Moscow hospital. She was 69.
        Russian news agencies said she is to be cremated on Wednesday. There were no details about the cause of death.
        Galina Brezhnev was never involved in politics but she figured in some major scandals in the last years of Soviet power. The arrests of some of her husbands and some of her friends illuminated corruption of the Soviet aristocracy.
        A hard-drinking member of the Soviet elite who liked to race her father's Mercedes, Ms. Brezhnev had her first brush with scandal when she was just 22 and ran away with a circus acrobat.
        ''He could hold 10 people on his shoulders but failed to hold Galina too long,'' NTV television observed tonight. ''Galina got married quite often.'' She remained infatuated with the circus and with circus performers for several decades.
        In 1982 a close friend from the circus, known as Boris the Gypsy, was arrested and charged with smuggling. The arrest took place when Yuri V. Andropov was head of the K.G.B., and Mr. Andropov portrayed the move as part of his anticorruption drive. But it was also interpreted as a bid by Mr. Andropov to position himself to succeed Mr. Brezhnev as Soviet leader. Mr. Brezhnev died in 1982.
        That was not the end of her notoriety: In 1988 her husand Yuri Churbanov was arrested for taking bribes and imprisoned for six years. Mr. Churbanov had been a lieutenant colonial in the police when he met Ms. Breznev and was promoted to post of Chief Deputy Interior Minister soon after their marriage.
        Coming in the early years of reform under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Churbanov case sent an important political signal: that no one was above the law.
        After Mr. Churbanov was jailed, Ms. Brezhnev said she was unaware of his bribe-taking and divorced him, saying he had been a bad husband. Mr. Churbanov was released from prison in 1993.
        Despite her brushes with scandal, Ms. Brezhnev retained her privileges and comfortable life style. She  won a law suit for the return of a Mercedes and other valuables confiscated from Mr. Churbanov.
        There were no details tonight about survivors.
      