
        Julia Perles, a longtime Manhattan lawyer who played an important part in bringing about a significant change in New York State's divorce legislation, died early Wednesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84 and had lived in Sarasota for about four years.
        The cause was not immediately clear, but she had had a fall at her home, said Janet Post, a friend.
        Ms. Perles is widely considered to have played the leading role in bringing about the passage of what is popularly known as New York State's equitable distribution law, which went into effect in 1980. The law brought about what its admirers have called a revolutionary change in the practice of matrimonial law and in the rights of marital partners.
        At her death, Ms. Perles was still affiliated with the law firm of Phillips, Nizer, Benjamin, Krim & Ballon, based in Manhattan, where she became a partner in 1970, having been invited by Louis Nizer to head the firm's matrimonial practice.
        She went on to become a senior partner until about eight years ago,  and remained head of her department until she moved to Florida. After that, she continued to be affiliated with the firm and its matrimonial department.
        While she was practicing matrimonial law, she became chairwoman of a special committee of the New York County Lawyers Association. The panel's members were respected specialists in marital law who favored getting the equitable-distribution change made in the state law. Committee members communicated with the State Legislature in Albany repeatedly, former colleagues of Ms. Perles recalled, and it took much attention and perseverance to persuade the Legislature to make the change.
        Under the law as it was passed in 1980, both spouses, in the event of a divorce, are enabled to share equitably in the assets that either or both of them have accumulated during the marriage, even if title to the property -- a house for instance, or a business -- is in the name of only one spouse. Parties to a marriage did not have that legal right in New York State before the law was passed.
        The underlying assumption behind the law is that both parties to a marriage contribute to the acquisition, maintenance and growth of the marital assets.
        Ms. Perles's clients over the years included Woody Allen; Nancy Allen, the actress-wife of Brian De Palma, the movie director; the former Eve Ella Sherpick Green, the first wife of Harry B. Helmsley, the New York real estate titan; David Merrick, the producer; and Ethel Scull, who once was called the doyenne of the pop art world.
        Ms. Perles was a former president of the New York Women's Bar Association, a fellow of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers and a member of the Dirty Thirty, an organization of American lawyers prominent in the field of matrimonial law.
        She was born and raised in Brooklyn, and she wanted to be a lawyer from the time she was 12 years old. Rona J. Shays, a close friend, recalled that Ms. Perles used to say that her own mother had not wanted her to go to law school and had said to her, ''No one will want to marry you if they think you're smarter than they are.''
        Nevertheless, Ms. Perles went on to attend Brooklyn College, and she received her law degree in 1937 from Brooklyn Law School.
        She was an associate in the Manhattan law firm of Schwartz & Frohlich from 1942 to 1952 and then a partner at the Manhattan law firm of Greenbaum Wolff & Ernst before going to Phillips, Nizer.
        In 1951 she married Howard Singer. He died in 1989.
        Her survivors include a brother, David Perles, who lives in Boca Raton, Fla.
      