
        Kay Thompson, an entertainer who became the author of the hugely successful book ''Eloise,'' about a bratty child living at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, died on Thursday. She lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan with her goddaughter, Liza Minnelli. She was taken from the apartment to Lenox Hill Hospital, but her longtime lawyer Arthur E. Abelman said it was unclear where she died. She was between 92 and 95,  Mr. Abelman, estimated.
        The daughter of a St. Louis jeweler, Ms. Thompson was a pianist with the St. Louis Symphony in 1928.  ''I was a stage-struck kid,'' she recalled later, ''and I got out of St. Louis fast.''
        She became a singer with the Mills Brothers on radio, an arranger and singer with Fred Waring's Band and co-producer of ''Kay Thompson and Company,'' a CBS radio show. She also worked as an arranger and songwriter for ''The Ziegfeld Follies'' and other movies, and performed in nightclubs, singing with the Williams Brothers from 1947 to 1953.
        As The New York Herald Tribune reported in 1958, ''Eloise's birth was unexpected. At rehearsals of her act with the Williams Brothers, Ms. Thompson prized punctuality. Then one day she was late. In a high, childish voice that she had never used before, she made her apology. One of her co-workers said, 'Who are you, little girl?' Ms. Thompson replied, 'I am Eloise. I am 6.' The others joined in the game, each assuming a juvenile identity, and it became a regular rehearsal pastime.'' The routine became a book after Ms. Thompson began performing in 1954 in a one-woman show at the Plaza.
        While she was appearing in the hotel's Persian Room, she was introduced to an artist, Hilary Knight, and he became the illustrator of ''Eloise,'' which was subtitled ''A Book for Precocious Grown Ups.'' Ms. Thompson wrote the book during a three-month break from performing.
        Later she wrote three other books about Eloise, which were also illustrated by Mr. Knight.
        In the first two years after ''Eloise'' came out, 150,000 copies were sold. Looking back in 1957, Publisher's Weekly said: ''As everyone who can read must know, Eloise is an overprivileged 6-year-old, the terror of the Hotel Plaza in New York. She is also ill-mannered, ill-tempered and ugly. But she has her charm. She often means well, and her mother neglects her. Even though you know that you would do the same thing if she were yours, you can't help finding this appealing.''
        Kim Bouchard, a senior publicist at Simon & Schuster, Ms. Thompson's publisher, said that according to records beginning in 1983, 592,000 copies of ''Eloise'' have been sold in the United States since 1983.
        The other Eloise books are ''Eloise in Paris'' (1957), ''Eloise at Christmastime'' (1958) and ''Eloise in Moscow'' (1959).
        Ms. Thompson also wrote ''Kay Thompson's Miss Pooky Peckinpaugh and Her Secret Private Boyfriends Complete with Telephone Numbers'' (1970).
        Ms. Thompson founded Eloise Ltd., which made recordings and other products related to the Eloise character. She also acted in movies, including ''Funny Face,'' and on television.
        Friends said her first marriage, in the 1930's, to Jack Jenney, a trombonist, ended in divorce, as did her later marriage to William Spier, a radio producer.
      