
        Betty Lehan Harragan, a writer, consultant and advocate for women's equality in the workplace, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, according to Kathleen Harragan, her daughter.
        Betty Harragan's book ''Games Mother Never Taught You: Corporate Gamesmanship for Women'' was published in 1977 by Rawson Associates; since then, more than one million copies have been published in paperback by Warner Books. The book is used in college undergraduate courses and business schools and was the basis for a television film of the same name starring Loretta Swit and Sam Waterston, broadcast by CBS in 1982 and 1985.
        Another book by Ms. Harragan, ''Knowing the Score: Play-by-Play Directions for Women on the Job,'' was published by St. Martin's Press in 1983. Ms. Harragan also wrote articles and columns about careers for such magazines as Working Woman, Woman's Day, Mademoiselle and Savvy.
        A 27-year member of the National Organization for Women, for which she frequently handled publicity and public relations, Ms. Harragan often addressed professional societies and seminars for female managers. She also testified before legislative committees on behalf of equal opportunity, equal rights and comparable pay for women.
        A native of Milwaukee, she graduated from Marquette University in there in 1944. She received a master's degree in English literature in 1947 from Columbia University.
        From 1950 to 1956, she edited employee publications for the New York Telephone Company and was a writer and publicist at the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency from 1963 to 1972. Later that year, Ms. Harragan started Betty Harragan & Affiliates, a consulting company that specialized in women's issues in the workplace.
        Her husband, David J., died in 1962.
        In addition to her daughter, Kathleen, of Boston, she is survived by three brothers, Robert Lehan of Tempe, Ariz.; Richard Lehan of Sacramento, Calif., and William Lehan of Anaheim, Calif.; two sisters, Geri Pollack of North Hills, Calif., and Judy Ascasio of Laguna Hills, Calif., and a grandson.
      