
        Geraldine Owen Delaney, a nutritionist who founded a highly regarded New Jersey treatment center for people recovering from alcohol and drug addictions, as she had, died on July 9 at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. She was 91 and lived in Frelinghuysen Township.
        In 1957, she founded the Little Hill Foundation, which operates a private adult residential center in Blairstown, N.J., called Little Hill-Alina Lodge. She was known for her approach to the long-term treatment of people who resisted such help. She was chief executive of the foundation until she retired in 1994.
        She was named to the New Jersey State Advisory Council on Alcohol Problems in 1975, and in the 1980's she served on the advisory board of the United States Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration.
        When she retired, Mrs. D, as she was known, was able to celebrate 50 years of sobriety and service. Her early fall into dependency and her wrenching recovery played a pivotal role in her career, as did her friendship with two co-founders of Alcoholics Anonymous and Al-Anon, a support group for relatives and close friends of alcoholics.
        The two co-founders, Bill and Lois Wilson, New Yorkers, took her through A.A.'s 12 steps, enabling her to face up to her alcoholism and take the organization's message to others. From this experience she derived her own no-nonsense program and opened the Blairstown center in Warren County, one of the first such treatment centers in the country.
        She was convinced that the families of alcoholics needed educating in order to support the recovery process. Her comprehensive treatment for adults she described as ''reluctant to recover'' includes total abstinence, strict rules, an atmosphere of tough love -- a regimen of three to eight months, sometimes longer.
        Her work was praised by Betty Ford, co-founder of the Betty Ford Center. The former First Lady called Mrs. Delaney ''a front-runner in the field of alcohol and drug treatment'' who had helped thousands of professional people.
        Her work was the subject of a recent paperback titled ''Hope! The Story of Geraldine D., Alina Lodge & and Recovery'' (Tincture of Time Press, Hawaii), which was written by a historian of Alcoholics Anonymous, Dick B.
        A native of Stonington, Ill., she was educated at Knox College and the University of Illinois.
        In 1949, she married Thomas Francis Delaney, a building contractor, who helped her start the Little Hill Foundation and Alina Lodge. Mr. Delaney died some years ago. She is survived by a niece, Margaret Owen Fisher, of Plymouth, Mich., and a nephew, James Owen, of Atlanta.
      