
        Mae Questel, a rubber-voiced veteran of stage, screen and vaudeville who played Woody Allen's mother in ''New York Stories'' and was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Ms. Questel was 17 and living in the South Bronx when she won a local contest to find the girl who most resembled Helen Kane, a popular singer known as the boop-oop-a-doop queen. Ms. Questel was signed by an agent that night and soon was performing on the vaudeville circuit, including numerous stints at the Palace Theater.
        She appeared in acts alongside many other performers and also as a ''single,'' using her flexible vocal cords to sing and do imitations of Maurice Chevalier, Fanny Brice, Rudy Vallee and Marlene Dietrich.
        When the animator Max Fleischer heard Ms. Questel doing her boop-oop-a-doop routine in 1931, he signed her to take over the cartoon voice of Betty Boop in more than 150 animated shorts, until Fleischer retired the character in 1939. Her recording of ''On the Good Ship Lollipop,'' in Betty Boop's voice, sold more than two million copies in the 1930's.
        In 1933, she created the voices of Olive Oyl and Sweet Pea for the ''Popeye'' cartoons, and played Popeye's scrawny paramour in more than 450 cartoons until they went out of production in 1967. She once told an interviewer that her Olive Oyl voice was an attempt to imitate the actress ZaSu Pitts. At various times, she also provided the voices for Little Audrey, Casper the Friendly Ghost and other cartoon characters.
        Among her many Broadway credits were ''Dr. Social'' in 1948, ''A Majority of One'' in 1959 and ''Enter Laughing'' in 1963. She also appeared in the film version of ''A Majority of One'' in 1962, ''Funny Girl'' in 1968 and ''New York Stories'' in 1989. On the soundtrack of Mr. Allen's ''Zelig'' (1983) she sang the Betty Boop theme song, ''Chameleon Days.''
        She is survived by a son, Richard Balkin of upstate New York, and three granddaughters.
        In 1963 Ms. Questel was asked to give her philosophy for survival. ''Don't make a megillah out of every little thing,'' she said.
        Correction:  January 16, 1998, Friday  A picture caption on Jan. 8 with an obituary of the actress who was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl misspelled her surname. She was Mae Questel, as the article  said, not Questal.
      