
        Gisella Caccialanza, a major American ballerina with George Balanchine's first New York company and with the San Francisco Ballet, died on Thursday in Seton Hospital in Daly City, Calif. She was 83 and lived in San Bruno, Calif.
        The cause was a stroke, said Diane Kounalakis, associate director of public relations for the San Francisco Ballet.
        Although Miss Caccialanza danced with pioneering American companies and was married to Lew Christensen, an important American choreographer, her early training was Italian.
        Born of Italian-American parents in San Diego, she studied ballet in Los Angeles with Giovanni Rosi, an Italian teacher. Italian ballet training was prized at the time, and Rosi recommended that she continue her studies in Milan, Italy. Yet he lamented that Enrico Cecchetti, Italy's most celebrated teacher, had just died.
        When Miss Caccialanza and her mother arrived in Milan in 1925, they were astonished to find Cecchetti still alive. Miss Caccialanza became his protegee and he served as her godfather at her confirmation. ''Letters From the Maestro,'' a collection of their correspondence, was published in 1971.
        After returning to America in 1928, she worked with Albertina Rasch, a Viennese choreographer who staged ballet numbers for musicals and vaudeville shows. In 1934, she became a charter member of the American Ballet, Balanchine's first American company, creating parts in many works, notably that of the bride in Balanchine's ''Baiser de la Fee'' in 1937. She also danced in ''The Goldwyn Follies'' and ''On Your Toes,'' movie musicals choreographed by Balanchine.
        When the American Ballet was not performing, its members appeared with Ballet Caravan, a touring group founded in 1936 that encouraged American choreographers, among them Mr. Christensen, whom Miss Caccialanza married in 1941. That year, the American Ballet and Ballet Caravan combined for a Latin American tour. For this organization, which disbanded shortly after the tour, Miss Caccialanza was cast as the Second Ballerina in the premiere of Balanchine's ''Ballet Imperial.''
        She was guest ballerina with the San Francisco Ballet in 1943. In 1944, she danced the Sugarplum Fairy when that company presented America's first complete ''Nutcracker.'' Her partner was Willam Christensen, Lew's brother and the company's director.
        Back in New York, Miss Caccialanza joined Ballet Society, the forerunner of the New York City Ballet, in 1946 and created the Third Theme in Balanchine's ''Four Temperaments.'' When Willam Christensen left California in 1951 to found Ballet West in Salt Lake City, of which he is now director emeritus, his brother  succeeded him in San Francisco. Miss Caccialanza danced with his company until the birth of their son in 1953. She then taught at the company's school.
        Her husband died in 1984. Miss Caccialanza is survived by her son, Chris Christensen, a conductor, also of San Bruno.
      