
        Judith F. Albert, a toy designer whose credits include the redesign of the Cabbage Patch doll for the mass market as well as other commercially successful dolls, died July 20 from breast cancer at her home in Mill Neck, N.Y. She was 59 years old.
        Her vinyl recast of the formerly all-cloth Cabbage Patch doll in the early 1980's for the toy company Coleco Industries set off a frenzy among parents to obtain the dolls for their children or, perhaps, for themselves. Mrs. Albert had devised a way to manufacture the dolls with variety in eye color, facial features and clothes, so that each one looked unique. Like the originals, they also came with birth certificates, suggesting additional reality.
        ''People were beating each other up in the store aisles, trying to get one,'' recalled Christopher Byrne, editor of Playthings Market Watch, a toy-industry newsletter. ''There were stories about people flying to Europe to buy them.''
        Mrs. Albert, a native of Rockville Centre, N.Y., graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan and joined the Ideal Toy Company, then based in Queens, in 1960. She remained there for more than 20 years, said her husband, Arthur, whom she met when he joined the company in 1963.
        Together -- she was the designer, he was the marketer -- they worked on a series of dolls, including Betsy-Wetsy, Tiny Tears, Tiffany Taylor and Chrissie, a doll heralded in television commercials for her ''beautiful hair that grows, and grows, right down to her toes.''
        Chrissie, Mr. Albert said, was inspired by a television show he and his wife were watching one night about Rapunzel. ''The hair gave us the idea,'' he said. Chrissie, whose hair could be rewound with a knob attached to her torso, inspired a line of other dolls, including Velvet, who had purple eyes, Mr. Albert said.
        By 1981, the couple had left Ideal because they did not want to follow the company when it relocated to New Jersey. They established their own company, called Alberts Design, and continued working on dolls and other toys. Among their successful projects was the Puffalumps series of dolls made by Fisher-Price Inc. -- now part of Mattel Inc. -- one of the first toys to be made of the synthetic fabric used in parachutes, and, more recently, the company came out with Singing Bouncy Baby, which sings when bounced on a child's knee, and Happy Hugs, which has a ''hug-o-meter'' that measures how hard a child squeezes it.
        Thin, exuberant and always meticulously dressed, Mrs. Albert was a fixture at the annual Toy Fair in Manhattan for many years, where she now and then dressed in clothes matching whatever Tiffany Taylor, a Barbie-type doll made by Ideal, was wearing that season. In her spare time, she painted, sketched, raised prize-winning dahlias and tended a poolful of ornamental goldfish called koi on the grounds of the house she and her husband designed and built together in 1976.
        Her instinct for what would make a doll appeal to children appeared to be innate. Not only would she design a doll, but she would also design the showroom for the manufacturer, said Maurene Souza, a former executive at Hasbro Inc. who worked with Mrs. Albert over the years.
        ''She always understood the connection the child makes with the toy,'' Mr. Byrne said. ''Toys that have long-term value really aren't complete without the child.''
        In addition to her husband, of Mill Neck, Mrs. Albert is survived by her mother, Florence Carman of Franklin Square, N.Y.; a stepson, Ross M. Albert of East Norwich, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Ronda Kornfeld of Greensboro, N.C., and four stepgrandchildren.
      