
        Dorothy West, ''the Kid'' of the  Harlem Renaissance circle of writers and artists in the 1920's who was rediscovered seven decades later when her novel ''The Wedding'' was published and became a best-seller,  died on Sunday night at New England Medical Center in Boston. She was 91 and a longtime resident of Oak Bluffs, Martha's Vineyard.
        Miss West, who began writing stories at age 7 in her family's elegant four-story house in Boston, was not yet 20 in 1926 when her short  story ''The Typewriter'' won a prize from the Urban League's Opportunity magazine. Encouraged, she  moved to Harlem and joined the poets, novelists, musicians and other artists forging a cultural renaissance there. Long before her death, she was frequently described as the last surviving member of that group.
        ''We thought we were going to be the greatest writers in the world,'' she told The Los Angeles Times in 1995. 'We were all young and we fell in love with each other. We all had the same ambitions: writers and painters and so forth. We were free. . . .We had an innocence that nobody can have now.''
        Langston Hughes gave Miss West the nickname ''the Kid'' and took her to Russia in 1932. She asked him to marry her but he declined. Soon she received a proposal from Countee Cullen, the poet who received one of the first Guggenheim Fellowships given to an African-American. She turned him down. She shared an apartment with Zora Neale Hurston, the writer and folklorist, and when guests came to the loft of Wallace Thurman, the novelist and editor, she was always there, sitting on the floor.  She had a bit part in the original stage production of ''Porgy and Bess.'' Claude McKay, already established as a poet and novelist, scolded her for not writing more.
        ''We were a beautiful, young group,'' she told a Boston Globe interviewer in 1989. 'We drank too much, though. We drank too much.''
        Miss West's first novel, ''The Living Is Easy,'' was not published until  1948, when the Harlem Renaissance had long faded. Her second, ''The  Wedding,'' about the aspirations and anxieties of black people living on Martha's Vineyard, appeared in 1995. Both were written at her family's former vacation home on the  Vineyard, where she had lived year-round since 1947 and was a columnist for The Vineyard Gazette.
        At her celebrity-studded 90th birthday party on the island in 1997, which drew hundreds of well-wishers, she was called ''a national treasure'' by Hillary Rodham Clinton.
        Miss West's stories and novels used brisk narratives, an eye for detail and wit to explore the aspirations of well-to-do blacks and the interplay of race, class and intraracial tensions in America. Her work was not overtly political, tending to more lyrical depictions of vanity, longing, love and misunderstanding.
        ''Color is important, but class is more important,'' Miss West often said in the dozens of interviews she gave after ''The Wedding'' was published by Doubleday and made into a  miniseries by Oprah Winfrey.
        Critics praised her storytelling and her pioneering descriptions of  conflict within the black middle class. ''There is an abundance of  psychological and historic richness to her characters,'' Elizabeth Benedict wrote in The Washington Post in 1995, ''and she can be wickedly eloquent about the costs of living in a world where the shadings in the color of one's skin are more important than the bonds between blood relatives.''
        Miss West was born on June 2, 1907, in Boston, the only child of Isaac and Rachel West. Her father, born a slave, built a fruit and vegetable business that lifted the family into the slim ranks of Boston's black upper middle class. Her mother, a generation younger, ''spirited, fearless, sassy and smart,'' brought many of her 18 siblings and their families to live with them.
        Family members ''ranged in color from the blond child to me,'' Miss  West wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' a collection of short stories and essays published in 1995. ''We were always stared at. . . . My mother prepared us. As she marched us down our front stairs, she would say what our smiles were on tiptoe to hear, 'Come on, children, let's go out and  drive the white folks crazy.'
        ''She said it without rancor, and she said it in that outrageous way to  make us laugh. She was easing our entry into a world that outranked us  and outnumbered us. If she could not help us see ourselves with the humor,  however wry, that gives the heart its grace, she would never have forgiven  herself for letting our spirits be crushed before we had learned to  sheathe them with pride.''
        The sisters and cousins defended  each other against outsiders, but at home squabbles were melodramatic, Miss West said. ''Surrounded by all these different personalities, each one wanting to be first among equals, I knew I wanted to be a writer.  Living with them was like living inside a story.''
        Her work was first published when she was 14, in The Boston Post, and she soon became a regular contributor. After graduating from the Girls' Latin School at 16, she attended Boston University and the Columbia University School of Journalism.
        In 1932, she and 20 other black Americans including Langston Hughes, were invited to visit the Soviet Union to work on a proposed movie about racism in America. The film was never made, but Miss West remained in the Soviet Union with Hughes for a year, returning to the United States only when she learned of her father's death.
        There remains some question about whether she and Hughes were romantically involved, although she proposed to him in a letter in 1933. In a 1995 interview with The Boston Globe, she said that she never particularly wanted to marry -- ''Seemed like the man just became the woman's child'' -- but had wanted a child.  The memory of how she learned she could not was still painful decades later: the white doctor telling her briskly, ''There are already enough black people in the world.''
        Miss West had no immediate survivors, although she remained close to many of her cousins.
        In 1934, she founded Challenge, a quarterly magazine intended as a showcase for younger black writers and ''to recapture in the mid-30's the literary vitality of the Harlem Renaissance, which had not survived the Depression.'' Her subsequent magazine, New Challenge -- which reflected the belief of its associate editor, Richard Wright, that art is a weapon -- survived only briefly in 1937.
        Miss West became a welfare investigator in Harlem (a job that was the source for several short stories)  and joined the Depression-era Federal Writers Project. In 1940, she began contributing two short stories a month at $50 apiece to The New York Daily News, an association she continued until 1960.
        In the summer of 1947, she left New York for good, moving to Martha's Vineyard and the two-bedroom cedar-shingled cottage in Oak Bluffs that her father had bought. She lived there the rest of her life, once writing: ''I have lived in various places, but the island is my yearning place.  All my life, wherever I have been, abroad, New York, Boston, anywhere, whenever I yearned for home, I yearned for the island.''
        ''The Living Is Easy'' was published the next year. In this semiautobiographical tale, the strong-willed, light-skinned Cleo Judson -- modeled on Miss West's mother -- tries to remake her darker-skinned  daughter, and breaks up her own  marriage to a former slave who had made himself ''the Black Banana King.'' The book satirizes upper-crust black Bostonians.
        In the late 1940's, Miss West began writing columns for The Vineyard Gazette.. While caring for ailing relatives in the now-winterized cottage, she was also slowly writing another novel, published as ''The Wedding'' in 1995. (''The Richer, The Poorer,''  gathering 13 essays and 17 stories Miss West wrote between 1926 and 1987, came out later the same year.)
        Starting in 1992, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, then a book editor for Doubleday, had visited the cottage once a week in the summers to work on the long-stalled novel with Miss  West. Mrs. Onassis died shortly before its publication, and Miss West dedicated it to her memory, writing,  ''Though there was never such a mismatched pair in appearance, we were perfect partners.''
        Set in the black community on Martha's Vineyard during the 1950's, the novel is a gently ironic story of a beautiful, blond, privileged young black woman, Shelby Coles, who is torn about her planned marriage to a white jazz musician. Using flashbacks from the wedding day to many past generations, it delves into interracial and intraracial bigotry. Miss  West's belief in integration and her penchant for romance coalesced in the final line she gave Shelby Coles: ''Color was a false distinction; love  was not.''
        Oprah Winfrey used the novel for a two-part miniseries this year. ''It shows a world that most people have rarely seen, a world where black  families are all highly educated, very successful, living in Martha's  Vineyard,'' Miss Winfrey said.
        An energetic conversationalist and inveterate storyteller who was less than five feet tall, Miss West kept her distance from the political upheavals of her lifetime. She went to Communist Russia with Hughes and the others, she wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' because ''I liked them.'' In the 1960's and 70's, Miss West was not active in the civil rights movement and found radicals like the Black Panthers discomfiting.
        ''I'm a creative writer,'' she said late in life. ''I'm not a black with a  chip on my shoulder.'' Instead, she often said: ''Color is nothing when you know people.''
      