
        Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming a Connecticut television celebrity as a consumer price specialist, died on Aug. 12 at a nursing home in Hartford. She was 99, and it seems almost beside the point to note that she had been an agricultural economist for the University of Connecticut.
        To say that Miss Smith followed her own path would hardly do justice to someone who became a farm specialist after growing up on the streets of Chicago.
        But Miss Smith, who spent several girlhood summers on a farm, was ever an original, one whose career included driving a hotel jitney in Florida, starting and running the country store for Henry and Clara Ford's Wayside Inn in Sudbury, Mass., and creating and starring in ''Millie's Market Basket'' on Connecticut television.
        Never one to be hampered by convention, Miss Smith went to work for the agriculture department of the Connecticut Agricultural College before she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago; became an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut (as the agricultural college became in 1938)  before she received a master's degree from Radcliffe College, and never did bother to get a doctorate, although she did complete postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics.
        For someone born in the Victorian era, Miss Smith adapted well to 20th-century culture, much to the occasional dismay of her mother, a staid woman who had derived her Victorian outlook in situ, growing up in  England, and who was properly shocked when her daughter, who had not come of age in the Roaring Twenties for nothing, would go off for weekends with her young man of the moment.
        (Miss Smith, whose romantic life  became a subject of intense speculation among her grandnieces and grandnephews, apparently found a satisfying solution to the problem of juggling job and family: attracting a steady supply of smitten suitors without actually succumbing to matrimony. She derived enormous delight a few years ago when she received a proposal from an admirer at her Hartford retirement community on the very day the Social Security Administration notified her that she had died -- as, it turned out, another Mildred Smith had done.)
        Miss Smith's sense of personal mission began early. With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
        Typically, Miss Smith, who had a lifelong fascination with statistics, not only picked apples and dug potatoes on a farm in East Corinth, Vt., but counted them, computing yields and other data for reports that she later deposited with the Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe.
        After the fall harvest one year, the farmer whose land she had worked tried to find her a winter job at a resort that his friend Henry Ford owned in Eustis, Fla., but wondered whether Miss Smith knew how to drive, a requirement for the job of shuttling guests to and from the train station.
        In a reply that later delighted her grandnieces and grandnephews, Miss Smith reassured him: ''I've been driving tractors since I was 12.''
        Indeed, Miss Smith did so well as a jitney driver that she apparently impressed Ford and his wife, Clara. In 1923, when they bought the inn made famous by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, they recruited Miss Smith to start and run the country store that became a part of the historic restoration and preservation project.
        By 1931, Miss Smith had found her life's work in academia, but after a decade as a statistician and consumer price specialist at the University of Connecticut, she decided that it was time to complete her own college education.
        So, again flouting convention, she returned to Chicago and received her degree at age 42.
        Later, after becoming an assistant professor in 1943 and spending three years with the O.P.A.'s Boston office, she received a master's degree from Radcliffe.
        She remained an assistant professor, but her work as a teacher and consumer marketing specialist -- among other things turning out pamphlets and conducting radio and television programs stressing thrift -- was so impressive that when she retired in 1961, she was named professor emeritus.
        In retirement Miss Smith wrote historical pamphlets on New England agriculture and taught herself bookbinding, selling leather-bound notebooks and other items at craft fairs to finance her yen for travel, which included 18 trips to England and the Continent, where as a young woman, it should come as no surprise, she had climbed the Matterhorn.
      