
        Lia Manoliu, a worldly woman who threw the discus for Romania in six Olympic Games and won the gold medal in 1968, died on Friday in a hospital in Bucharest. She was 65.
        Hospital officials said the cause was a heart attack. They said she went into a coma on Dec. 31 during surgery for a brain tumor and never regained consciousness.
        In 1990, after the revolution that unseated the repressive Government of Nicolae Ceausescu, Manoliu was named president of the Romanian Olympic Committee. She was only the third woman to head a national Olympic committee, following Princess Anne in Britain and Princess Nora in Liechtenstein.
        Manoliu was a finalist in every Olympics from 1952 through 1972. She was the discus bronze medalist in 1960 in Rome (171 feet 9 inches). She won a bronze in 1964 in Tokyo (186-10) and a gold in Mexico City in 1968 (191-2). Then 36, she was the oldest woman to win an Olympic title in track and field. In 1972, when she was 40, she made the longest throw of her career, 203-7.
        She was fluent in French, English, German and Russian. In earlier years, she was an electrical engineer who studied the effects of light and noise on factory workers. Her intellectual pursuits were endless, and she often seemed to apologize for them. In a 1971 interview in The New York Times, Brian Glanville wrote, ''She has on her bookshelves the works of Sartre, Ibsen, Pirandello and Wilde.'' To which she responded:
        ''It's not me. It's the tradition in the family. My father was a professor of philosophy. That's how I had this mania to read.''
        Once, in Munich, she asked a Bavarian track official about visiting a local art gallery.
        ''He was amazed that someone who had been practicing a sport for 20 years should want to do that,'' she recalled. ''I felt a little humiliated. You have sport imprinted on your forehead.''
        A Romanian who had known her since she was a young athlete once said, ''She has this immense compulsion to take the sins of all athletes on her shoulders.''
        As an athlete, she was almost 6 feet and 187 pounds. She trained hard, sometimes jumping with 300 pounds on her back.
        ''If I don't work for a month,'' she said, ''my form gets worse and worse. I have a friend, Mihaela Penes'' -- a Romanian who won the women's javelin throw in the 1964 Olympics -- ''who's endowed by nature. If she has a year's rest, it's just the same. If I stop for a month, I fall away. I wasn't gifted with this physical strength. I had to work for it all. For those moments of success, it's worth the price.''
        There were other prices, too.
        After she won her Olympic gold medal, her husband, Aurel Naicu, who had limited success as a discus thrower and coach, bought an expensive American car in Mexico City and sent it to Bucharest. There, he drove away with a young girlfriend. Soon after, Manoliu and her husband were divorced. They had no children.
        ''I was a little in despair,'' she said, ''after 10 years of marriage.''
      