
        The Mexican writer Elena Garro, whose novels, plays and stories exploring the clash between illusion and reality in Latin America made her one of Mexico's most important literary figures behind her former husband, Octavio Paz, died on Saturday at  Cuernavaca Hospital, south of Mexico City.
        She was 78 and had emphysema, said her daughter, Helena Paz Garro.
        While male voices predominate in Latin American literature, Ms. Garro, through acerbic intelligence and lyric intensity, achieved a level of recognition and importance usually barred to women. The president of the National Council for Culture and the Arts in Mexico, Rafael Tovar y de Teresa, labeled Ms. Garro one of the three most important female writers that Mexico had produced, alongside the 17th-century nun and poet Sor Juana de la Cruz and Rosario Castellanos, Ms. Garro's contemporary.
        The Mexican literary world ''is in mourning again,'' said Mr. Tovar y de Teresa. Mr. Paz, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1990, died on April 19.
        In the Mexico City daily Reforma, the writer Carlos Fuentes called Ms. Garro's first book, ''Recollections of Things to Come,'' ''one of the most important Mexican novels of the 20th century.'' It is one of only a handful of her more than 40 works that was  translated into English.
        Ms. Garro was born in the pretty colonial town of Puebla, 75 miles from Mexico City. Her marriage to Mr. Paz in 1937 brought her into a circle of intellectuals where her own radical ideas flourished and eventually clashed with those of her contemporaries.
        Soon after marrying, she and Mr. Paz moved from Mexico City to Spain to write about the Spanish Civil War. They lived in Paris after World War II and became part of the literary group that included the Argentine poet Jorge Luis Borges and the Surrealist Andre Breton. Later they lived in Japan before returning to Mexico.
        Their marriage dissolved in the early 1960's and they never spoke to each other again.
        In the late 1960's, Mexico, like many other countries, was immersed in protest and rebellion. The Mexican student movement had been fired in part by the country's intellectual elite. But Ms. Garro turned her back on the movement, at one point calling it a ''crazy adventure.''
        Her remarks stirred open hostility and brought about an almost complete break with Mexico's literary community. She moved to New York, and later to Paris, remaining in exile for 23 years before returning to Mexico in November 1991.
        She found a changed country, which she found hard to accept, and became like a character in ''Recollections of Things to Come'' who tried to step out of time by stopping the clock at the end of every day.
        Still, Ms. Garro continued to write provocatively and successfully. This  March, the English translations of two of her novellas, ''First Love'' and ''Look for My Obituary,'' were published by Curbstone.
        In a review in The New York Times, Peter Bricklebank said the works possessed ''understated eloquence,'' with characters who are ''prisoners of their own solitude, shackled by social expectations.''
        Besides her novels and stories, she  wrote eight works for the theater, including ''A Solid Home'' (1957), ''The Tree'' (1963) and ''Felipe Angeles'' (1979). Upon her return to Mexico in 1991, she was honored for her life's work at the National Theater Program in Aguascalientes.
        Ms. Garro spent her last years with her daughter and more than a dozen cats in a two-bedroom apartment in Cuernavaca.
      