
        Protima Gauri Bedi, a dancer and actress and the founder of the Nrityagram ensemble and school, which sought to preserve elements of Indian classical dance, died on Aug. 19 in a Himalayan mountain village 200 miles east of New Delhi. Ms. Bedi was 49 and lived just outside of Bangalore, in southern India.
        She was one of many killed near Pithoragarh in a mudslide along a popular Hindu pilgrimage route. Ms. Bedi and other devotees were returning from a visit to a shrine in Tibet.
        A charming, single-minded visionary, Ms. Bedi enjoyed telling the story of how she began performing Odissi, a style of Indian classical dance. As the wife of Kabir Bedi, a well-known film actor and producer in India, she had been leading the life of a heedless socialite, she said in an interview in The New York Times in 1996, when she caught sight of a guru teaching the dance form and found her life's goal. Much to the guru's horror, Ms. Bedi said, she attached herself to him, eventually learning enough to perform.
        Worried that the traditions of Odissi were dying out with the tradition of gurus, Ms. Bedi founded the Nrityagram academy as a free school that accepted any needy young woman who could find her way to it on her own. There the women learned to dance and perform Odissi. They also learned skills that Ms. Bedi felt were necessary to prepare them for life, like English and typing, and grew their own food.
        Ms. Bedi cajoled money and building materials from wealthy friends and the government to create the school and the small village that grew up around it, carved out of a barren area near Bangalore. She also trained students to help run the company.
        She founded an international dance festival on the school grounds, eventually building a small deluxe hotel there for festival visitors. The young dancers of Nrityagram soon began touring the world. Performers with a radiant freshness and delicacy, they made their New York debut in 1996 at the Kaye Playhouse.
        Ms. Bedi was divorced from her husband. She is survived by a daughter, Pooja, of Bombay. Her son, Siddharth, died last year.
      