
        Jean Fair Mitchell, a violin-playing, jig-dancing Scottish-born educator who guided the venerable Brearley School for girls from the white-glove 1940's through the armband 1960's without missing a beat, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 88 and had been the Brearley headmistress from 1947 to 1975.
        Brearley, or the Brearley as it tends to be known by those who have trod its halls at 83d Street and the East River, has been a forward-looking New York institution since it was founded in 1884 to provide an education for the intellectually gifted daughters of the New York elite.
        And by Miss Mitchell's time, its modern character had largely been set by her redoubtable predecessor, Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose departure in 1947 created the opportunity for a remarkable academic trade, one in which Brearley sent Mrs. McIntosh to Barnard College to become dean (and eventually president) and Barnard dealt Miss Mitchell, a member of its English faculty, to Brearley as headmistress.
        For all the high-spirited comment it occasioned, the swap was largely a coincidence. After scrutinizing 75 candidates in a five-month search for Mrs. McIntosh's successor, the Brearley trustees announced that Miss Mitchell had been the board's first choice.
        If her first decade or so presented few challenges in an era that is, after all, recalled as the quiescent 1950's, Miss Mitchell, a short, husky woman of verve who declaimed the poetry of Robert Burns in authentic dialect and Scottish burr, wasted little time in putting her own stamp on the school. Brearley had made social history by welcoming Jewish students as early as the 1880's, but Miss Mitchell promptly advanced its commitment to social diversity by recruiting its first black students, an effort aided by a Rockefeller Foundation grant to provide scholarships for needy minority students.
        She also left her mark on Brearley students. For a woman who had such an austere public persona that girls would sometimes quake before being sent to her office for discipline, Miss Mitchell proved to be a pussycat in private, a warm and understanding woman who seemed to identify with troublemakers, perhaps because as a schoolgirl she had been one herself.
        A native of Kirkcaldy, a Scottish town known less for its heather, she liked to point out, than for a large linoleum factory, Miss Mitchell was apparently such a hell-raiser during her school days that when she became headmistress at Brearley, the headmaster of her former school congratulated her as a ''poacher turned gamekeeper.''
        Miss Mitchell, who would sometimes tell horror stories about the corporal punishment girls endured at Scottish schools, came away with such an aversion to punishment of any kind that she became famous at Brearley for her reluctance to suspend even the most recalcitrant troublemakers.
        Her identification with the aspirations, frustrations and occasional fractiousness of the young was so complete that when the 1960's brought a wave of youthful unrest and rebelliousness over the Vietnam War, she quietly defused the anger among Brearley students, granting upperclassmen, for example, a day off to participate in an antiwar demonstration.
        While Brearley students were as rebellious as any teen-agers in the 1960's, Miss Mitchell tended to be so understanding and accommodating that she left the rabble-rousers with little to complain about. When, for example, students decided that Brearley's infamous blue tunic and skirt uniforms, which they had long complained made them look like pears, were symbols of regimentation and oppression, she allowed students to wear more or less whatever they wanted.
        Miss Mitchell, who was credited with strengthening science and mathematics courses, also responded positively to student complaints that the Brearley curriculum was not relevant to modern society. But the changes she authorized, like allowing students to substitute Spanish for German and complete their Latin requirements before high school, did not reach the level of some 1960's academic silliness and left the tough core curriculum unscathed.
        Miss Mitchell, who received a master's in English from the University of Edinburgh, trained to be a teacher, spent five years teaching at an Edinburgh girls school, then came to the United States in 1936 as a postgraduate fellow at Smith College. She later joined the Smith faculty and taught at Sarah Lawrence for a year before going to Barnard in 1944.
        For all her devotion to education, Miss Mitchell, whose father was an engineer, came close to pursuing a music career. At the time she was offered her first teaching post, he was also offered a job as violinist with the Edinburgh Symphony.
        She apparently chose education over music as a career because she knew she could always pursue her love of music on her own, as she did at Brearley, where she would play chamber music with students, and at her summer home (a converted one-room schoolhouse) in Blue Hill, Me., where she was deeply involved with the Kneisel Hall music school.
      