
        Dorothy Carnegie Rivkin, an author and instructor who developed the Dale Carnegie Training company into a worldwide operation, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 85 and lived in Forest Hills Gardens, Queens.
        Mrs. Carnegie Rivkin, a native of Tulsa, Okla., was chairwoman of Dale Carnegie Training. In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.'' Mrs. Carnegie took control of company operations after Mr. Carnegie's death in 1955 and developed the business into a multinational one with offices in 70 countries, 5 million graduates and $187 million in annual sales.
        With her strawberry blond hair, gleaming smile and rich Oklahoma twang -- Mrs. Carnegie was a student of Mr. Carnegie as well as his wife -- she proved as big a success in business as he was in motivational speaking. Though contemporaries in the 1950's wondered whether she had what it took to continue Mr. Carnegie's quintessentially enigmatic enterprise, she scoffed at such skepticism. She told a reporter in 1973 that she immediately took over the operations ''so that I have no time to sit and whittle and spit.''
        Even before she met its creator, she had become an early devotee of the Carnegie approach to self-improvement. His book was first published in 1936 and took America by storm with its simple, upbeat message. Even the most retiring people can learn to wow a crowd, he wrote. Look people in the eye, shake hands firmly, flash a winning smile and remember names. Never complain or blame other people.
        In the early 1940's, she was Dorothy Price Vanderpool, a divorced mother with a baby daughter to support because of what she called an ''unfortunate teen-aged marriage.'' She took a Carnegie course at a Y.M.C.A. in Tulsa and afterward credited the skills she acquired for the jump she made from stenographer in the Gulf Oil Corporation's accounting department to a senior secretary in the executive suite. She also became president of Tulsa's Young Republicans Club.
        Her improvement so impressed Carnegie people that the company offered her a job in New York. She became Mr. Carnegie's secretary in January 1944 and, several months later, his second wife. He later made her his business partner.
        Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953. Among the homespun advice she offered wives eager to please their husbands were such aphorisms as ''Share his interests and ideals'' and ''Try some intelligent listening. Be a sounding board or a wailing wall.''
        But Mrs. Carnegie put business before her personal writing and teaching interests. She once started the Dorothy Carnegie Course, a workshop for women, by women, in contrast to the male-centered Dale Carnegie program. It never took off financially, however, and her business instincts prevailed over her desire to offer a women-only alternative. She did preside over a sharp rise in the number of women taking the regular course.
        Her genius was to transform Dale Carnegie Training into a staple of corporate America. She once contended that 400 of the Fortune 500 companies sent employees to study at the company. It became a right of passage for young executives who sought to develop the confidence to present themselves well in public settings. Companies, moreover, paid the enrollment fees, which can now surpass $1,000 for a two-week session.
        Graduates were often the best advertisement. The chicken magnate Frank Perdue attended, as did Mary Kay Ash of Mary Kay cosmetics. So did Lee A. Iacocca, the former chief of the Chrysler Corporation.
        ''For the first few years of my life I was an introvert, a shrinking violet,'' the sometimes brash auto executive wrote in his autobiography, ''Iacocca.'' ''But that was before I took a course in public speaking at the Dale Carnegie Institute.'' Even the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders spruced up their smiles with the help of Carnegie teachers.
        Mrs. Carnegie had a casual working style. She vowed that employees would never find her sitting idly behind a desk. She dictated letters from the porch of her home in Forest Hills Gardens and ran meetings by telephone from her ranch in the Black Hills of Wyoming. She decorated her office with a bronze Philip La Verne conference table, an expensive statement of taste in the late 1960's.
        Mrs. Carnegie remarried in 1976, to David Rivkin, also of Tulsa. She retired from active management of the closely held company in 1978 in favor of her son-in-law, J. Oliver Crom, though she remained chairwoman.
        She is survived by Mr. Rivkin and her daughter, Donna Dale Carnegie of Lake Oswego, Ore. Another daughter, Rosemary Crom, died earlier. She is also survived by three grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren and three stepchildren.
      