
        Dr. Jean Trepp McKelvey, who hurdled gender barriers in the field of labor-management mediation and opened the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, died on Jan. 5 at the Kirkhaven Nursing Home in her hometown of Rochester. She was 89.
        She taught at Sarah Lawrence College for 13 years until 1946, when Cornell formed the new branch on its Ithaca, N.Y., campus and appointed her as its first faculty member. She wrote the curriculum for the school and taught courses in arbitration, labor law and labor practices.
        She assumed emeritus status in 1976 but continued to teach and coordinate the school's off-campus graduate credit courses given under extension programs in Albany, Corning, Elmira, Rochester and Syracuse. In a tribute to her and another faculty member, the school, known by its initials, I.L.R., established its first endowed chair in 1994 and named it the Jean McKelvey-Alice Grant Professorship of Labor Management Relations.
        Many of her former students went on to fill influential positions as union leaders, arbitrators and jurists. The year after she arrived at Cornell, she became a charter member -- and the sole woman at the time -- in the National Academy of Arbitrators. In 1970, she was the first woman to be elected president of the academy and, mindful of the overwhelming preponderance of men in her metier, came up with an arbitration training program for women.
        Outside the classroom, Dr. McKelvey was a sought-after arbitrator for the airline industry as well as other sectors of the economy. Gov. W. Averell Harriman named her to the  State Board of Mediation in 1955, and she served on it for 11 years, helping settle thorny disputes like a wholesale butchers' strike in 1961.
        President Richard M. Nixon appointed her to the Federal Services Impasses Panel in 1970, and she remained on it until eight years ago. At her death, she was still a member of the Public Review Board of the United Automobile Workers.
        She was the author of many papers and books and edited the proceedings of several annual meetings of the National Academy of Arbitrators. Among her books were ''Cleared for Takeoff: Airline Labor Relations Since Deregulation'' (I.L.R. Press, 1988), ''The Changing Law of Fair Representation'' (I.L.R., 1985), ''New Challenges to Arbitration'' (I.L.R., 1977) and ''A.F.L. Attitudes Toward Production, 1900-1932'' (Greenwood, 1974).
        She was born Jean Trepp in St. Louis and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Wellesley College in 1929. She received her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Radcliffe College in 1931 and 1933 and joined the Sarah Lawrence faculty in the year between. During World War II, she was a hearing officer and arbitrator for the National War Labor Board.
        She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Blake McKelvey, Rochester's city historian emeritus, and a brother, Richard Trepp of Springfield, Mass.
      