
        Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia.
        Like her husband, Dr. Jonathan M. Mann, she was 51 and lived in Columbia, Md.
        The couple were on their way to meetings of the World Health Organization in Geneva. Dr. Clements-Mann was to have attended a United Nations AIDS conference dealing with research into vaccines against H.I.V. She was a leading researcher on AIDS vaccines and was considered an expert on the assessment of vaccines.
        Dr. Clements-Mann was a 1968 graduate of Texas Tech University and earned her medical degree at the University of Texas in 1972. She also received a doctorate in tropical medicine from the University of London in 1975 and a master's degree in public health, specifically epidemiology, from Johns Hopkins in 1979, the year she first joined the staff at the university's school of medicine.
        Earlier in her career she served as a special epidemiologist on the World Health Organization's smallpox program in Uttar Pradesh, India. That was followed by a stint as coordinator for the organization's smallpox eradication program, also in India.
        In the early 1980's she was associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore and  was chief of the clinical studies section in its Center for Vaccine Development in 1985 when Johns Hopkins named her an associate professor in the Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health.
        She also was a member of the medical staff at Johns Hopkins Hospital and Bayview Medical Center. She advanced to tenured professor in the department of international health in 1990 with a joint appointment in the department of molecular microbiology and immunology.
        She is survived by her mother, Mary Still Clements of Longview, Tex., and two sisters, Ann Rhew of Floresville, Tex., and Paula Conley of Fort Worth.
      