
        Sybil Harrington, a philanthropist from Amarillo, Tex., who besides supporting medical, education and arts charities was the largest individual donor to the Metropolitan Opera in the company's history, died on Thursday in Phoenix, where she kept a winter home. She was 89.
        Grand opera was her passion, Mrs. Harrington once told an interviewer from Town and Country magazine. ''It's all there -- beautiful sets, great costumes, great music,'' she said. ''What more could you want?''
        And Mrs. Harrington liked her grand opera grand. Other patrons could back productions of Berg's ''Wozzeck'' and Britten's ''Peter Grimes.'' Her tastes went to Verdi, Puccini, Wagner and Mozart. She made possible some of the Met's most lavish and popular productions, like Franco Zeffirelli's ''Boheme,'' ''Tosca'' and ''Turandot'' and Otto Schenk's ''Meistersinger.'' She financed 16 new productions in total, most recently the Elijah Moshinsky production of Verdi's ''Otello'' introduced in the 1993-94 season. She also supported 13 ''Metropolitan Opera Presents'' television broadcasts, and provided funding for the company's computerized lighting board.
        In 1980, Mrs. Harrington made a  gift of $20 million to the Metropolitan Opera endowment fund campaign. In acknowledgement of her extraordinary generosity, the company named the house's auditorium after her.  Marilyn Shapiro, the executive director for external affairs at the Met, estimated that Mrs. Harrington's donations to the Met totaled more than  $30 million.
        As a director of the foundation she formed with her husband, Donald D. Harrington, a Texas oil man, Mrs. Harrington also contributed large sums to dozens of diverse charities and organizations, including the Deafness Research Foundation in New York and the Harrington Arthritis Research Center in Phoenix. She was especially attentive to the needs of the Texas Panhandle, providing money for everything from outdoor lights for softball fields in small towns like Gruver to a cancer treatment center outside Amarillo.
        Mrs. Harrington was a fierce defender of private philanthropy over government support. ''We've got to have that free enterprise,'' she once said. ''It's important in charitable institutions as well as in business. Art has to have freedom.''
        Mrs. Harrington was born Sybil Buckingham in Amarillo in 1908, the granddaughter of some of the first settlers in the remote region. As a child, she liked to fish and shoot, but she especially loved music and dance. She studied piano and organ, and ordered ballet shoes from a catalogue, persuading her mother to take her to Fort Worth for dance classes. Later, she loved listening to the first radio broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera, which fired her love for the art form and the company.
        A petite woman with a wry smile and quick wit, she married Mr. Harrington in 1935. They bought a 15,000-square-foot home in Amarillo built in 1914 by a cattle baron who, Mrs. Harrington often recalled, had had the grand Ionic columns that supported the portico hauled to Amarillo by mule train.
        The couple's philanthropy began with some scholarships to Texas Tech University in Lubbock, and later with a ranch they bought and turned into the Don Harrington Boy Scout Camp. They established their foundation in 1961.
        In 1974, Mrs. Harrington suffered two blows, the deaths of both her husband and, a few months later, their only child, Sally Harrington Goldwater, the wife of Robert Goldwater, the younger brother of Senator Barry Goldwater. Taking charge of the foundation was one way she  was able to cope with her loss.
        She had been a regular contributor to the Met but had not thought of financing a production until it was suggested to her by friends on the Met's board. Her first gift made possible the production of Verdi's ''Don Carlo'' by John Dexter, introduced in the 1978-79 season. Mrs. Harrington immersed herself in the experience, attending rehearsals, talking with  cast and crew, dispensing advice. When someone suggested that a white horse and some Irish wolfhounds in one scene were distracting, Mrs. Harrington objected, and the animals remained in the cast.
        Other productions she was responsible for, still in use by the company, include Puccini's ''Manon Lescaut,'' Johann Strauss's ''Fledermaus,'' Wagner's ''Rheingold'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.'' She became a member of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1968, a director of its managing board in 1970 and advisory director in 1978.
        She is to be buried in Amarillo.
        Commenting once on her work as a philanthropist, Mrs. Harrington said: ''Giving money away is hard work. But I got a kick out of it. I felt important for once in my life.''
      