
        Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines. She was 82, and with Lee Hadley had formed the writing team known as Hadley Irwin.
        Her daughter Sara Thompson said the cause was complications from hepatitis C.
        When Mrs. Irwin and her young partner, Lee Hadley, also an Iowa State English professor, put their heads and names together in the early 1970's, their target audience was 12- to 16-year-olds, an age group known in the publishing trade as young adults.
        Specializing in what are known as problem books, the women produced 13 Hadley Irwin titles for the McElderry imprint at Simon & Schuster.
        The books dealt with serious themes in such detail that it is little wonder that Mrs. Irwin's children, who appear in various guises throughout the series, would want the world to know that their mother did not draw on their experiences in exploring problems like teen-age suicide (''So Long at the Fair''), alcoholism (''Can't Hear You Listening'') or racism (''Kim/Kimi''), let alone incest, the breakthrough subject of the 1985 Hadley Irwin book, ''Abby, My Love.''
        But Mrs. Irwin really did not need her children as models. A native of Peterson, Iowa, Mrs. Irwin, whose maiden name was Bowen, grew up on a farm, majored in music at Morningside College in Sioux City and spent 30 years teaching, first music and later English, at a series of high schools in Iowa and Illinois.
        By the time she returned to school at age 50 to pick up a master's degree at the University of Iowa and qualify for a college position, Mrs. Irwin, who joined the Iowa State faculty in 1969, had seen enough teen-agers to fuel her literary career.
        In a collaboration in which she  took the lead in plotting and Ms. Hadley specialized in characters, Mrs. Irwin drew on the experiences of students she had taught in high school in developing the books' anguished themes.
        Over a quarter of a century the women developed a sure-fire system, beginning their books during summer vacations at Mrs. Irwin's lakeside home in Lake View, Iowa, then revising them during the school year, sometimes sitting side by side at the same typewriter and finishing each other's sentences.
        The novels won respect in the publishing industry, led to a couple of television movies and sold steadily in the United States, Europe and Japan, though not enough to make the authors wealthy.
        The last Hadley Irwin book, ''Sarah With an H,'' which dealt with anti-Semitism, was published after Ms. Hadley's death at 60 in 1995.
        Afterward Mrs. Irwin sought to carry on alone under the name Ann Irwin, writing an as yet unpublished  novel, ''The Wild Seedling.''
        Mrs. Irwin, whose husband, Keith, died in 1994, is survived by two other daughters, Jane Croll of Des Moines, and Ann Bauer of Dubuque; a son, Rees, of Ames, and four grandchildren.
      