
        Carol Hochberg, an investment banker who turned a diagnosis of breast cancer into a life of advocating for fellow sufferers, died of the disease on Wednesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 40.
        When Ms. Hochberg learned of the cancer, her first reaction was to fight, said her mother, Audrey G. Hochberg, a Democratic Assemblywoman from Scarsdale, N.Y.
        ''We have to get out there and kick,'' Carol Hochberg said in a New York Times interview in 1995. She channeled her anger and energy into Share, a lobbying and self-help group for women with breast or ovarian cancer. After seeking advice there, she rapidly became a volunteer, a board member and a lobbyist.
        The cancer arrived, she once said, at a ''most opportune time.''
        After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania and earning an M.B.A. at Harvard, she began working on Wall Street. Eight years later, in 1994, she was an investment banker at Schroder Wertheim & Company, with a six-figure salary and a substantial personal portfolio.
        But by then, she said, she had decided that there was ''more to life than making rich men richer,'' as she put it. She quit her job and gave herself a year to figure out how to spend the rest of her life. She read, visited relatives and friends, and traveled to Antarctica, Brazil and the Galapagos Islands.
        Before the year was over, she learned that a lump in her left breast was cancerous. ''She leaned into it,'' said Alice Yaker, who recently retired as Share's executive director, referring to both the disease and the cancer support center.
        Ms. Hochberg recalled in 1995: ''I was waiting for something to be committed and enthusiastic about. I guess I took cancer as a sign.''
        Ms. Hochberg, who believed that knowledge was control, read every article, book and on-line file she could find about breast cancer. She volunteered on the Share phone line, answering the questions of other women with the disease. She kept in touch with callers who seemed to be especially alone, like a young Chinese woman who had recently arrived in New York. She introduced a more sophisticated system of budgeting and financial planning to Share. And she helped to raise money, persuading relatives and Wall Street friends to contribute and donating some of her own money.
        And she immersed herself in the politics of breast cancer, working to get insurance coverage for women who were uninsured or entering clinical trials, and in the financing of medical research.
        She became a dedicated lobbyist, frequently traveling to Albany and Washington to persuade legislators to support breast cancer issues. She spoke to President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, about the need for more money for cancer research, and, on a panel with Vice President Al Gore, she described her experiences as a cancer patient. She was the sole layperson on some panels at several medical conventions.
        When she learned last year that her cancer had spread to her brain and bones, she intensified her activism.
        At a meeting of cancer researchers at the Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Science Center in Toronto, she made a dry presentation of metastatic medical issues vivid with her presence and words.
        Besides her mother, Ms. Hochberg is survived by her father, Herbert Hochberg, and two sisters, Brenda Hochberg of Boston and Judith Hochberg of Los Alamos, N.M.
      