
        Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman during political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died today at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. She was 86 and lived in Plymouth, Minn.
        In recent years, Mrs. Brown appeared rarely in public but on Tuesday stood at the side of her son, Hubert Humphrey 3d, Minnesota's Attorney General, when he won the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor.
        ''Hubert would have been proud,'' she said after her son's victory.
        There were many victories in the lives of Hubert and Muriel Humphrey and many setbacks as well. After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon Baines Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election.
        Humphrey had also been defeated for his party's Presidential nomination in 1960 by John F. Kennedy. Muriel Humphrey was at her husband's side for these elections and when he died after returning to the Senate, she was a logical and sentimental choice to succeed him until the 1978 election, when she did not run to keep the seat.
        Because of her shyness she had to work at the roles that came to her.
        ''If someone had told me what would be happening to me today,'' she said after the Democrats nominated Humphrey for President in 1968, ''well, it would have been an awful thing to have thought of. I just wanted to be a wife.''
        Hubert Horatio Humphrey ran for Mayor of Minneapolis in 1943, and it was then that Muriel Buck Humphrey, born in Huron, S.D., became the constant campaigner of the constant candidate.
        In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed. She pressed for the right of a woman to have an abortion and, when her granddaughter Vicky was born mentally disabled, she became involved in work for people with mental disabilities.
        In 1988, when President George Bush disparaged liberalism, Muriel Humphrey responded: ''There's something I've been wanting to say for a long time. I'm a liberal and I'm proud of it. In fact, I was probably a little more liberal than Hubert was. I just wanted to say that.''
        By then she was Muriel Humphrey Brown, having married Max Brown, a widowed Nebraska businessman who had been a classmate in Huron.
        In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      