
        Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home in Windham, Conn. A resident of Mansfield Hollow, Conn., she was 85 and had been a professor at the University of Connecticut.
        When they hired her in 1965, it's a safe bet that the men who ran the English department at the University of Connecticut knew that Dr. Butler, a native of Cleveland who grew up in Elyria, Ohio, was a 52-year-old widow who had returned to school after her husband's death, received a doctorate in Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia just two years earlier and spent the intervening years teaching at the University of Tennessee.
        It's an even safer bet that her Connecticut superiors did not know that in 1934, as a fresh Oberlin College graduate with a degree in the classics, Dr. Butler had gone to Washington to write a pamphlet for  an education association on ''The Brotherhood of Man.'' And that she had been swiftly dismissed from the project after overriding her boss's directive to go easy on Hitler lest she offend association members who agreed with Hitler's policies.
        Or that she had been dismissed from her next job, as publicity director of a segregated Washington hotel, after letting black Oberlin alumni attend a banquet there.
        Had they been aware of her record of ad hoc social activism, her superiors might have had second thoughts about relegating Dr. Butler, a small woman with a will of steel, to children's literature, a course so scorned by the Connecticut English faculty that it was known derisively as ''kiddie lit.'' Certainly her superiors would not have been as surprised as they were when Dr. Butler, sensing that the academic disdain for children's literature reflected a disdain both for children and for women as children's traditional caretakers and teachers, proceeded to turn the course into a platform for reform.
        The faculty's sneers at her course were understandable. Although children's literature had been taught in American universities since the turn of the century, generally as part of the library science or education curriculums, it was a reflection of the subject's lowly standing that it had no academic association and no academic journal.
        Dr. Butler swiftly made up for lost time. Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
        Along the way Dr. Butler's own course became one of the largest and most popular at the University of Connecticut, in part because she turned it into something resembling a three-ring circus with a string of guest lecturers that included falconers, puppeteers, troubadours, Maurice Sendak, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Bruno Bettelheim, Dr. Benjamin Spock, Big Bird and the Wicked Witch of the West (the actress Margaret Hamilton).
        Some of her colleagues predictably complained that the course's success was based more on showmanship than scholarship, but Dr. Butler, many of whose students went on to to teach children's literature at other colleges, was no slacker as a scholar. She turned out reams of  papers, edited anthologies and in 1989 published ''Skipping Around the World,'' a study of international  jump-rope rhymes.
        For all the acclaim she won, Dr. Butler chafed at what she saw as Connecticut's indifference or active opposition to her efforts to wrest children's literature from its vocational moorings and place it within the humanities.
        When, by her account, her upstart Journal was actually banned from the University of Connecticut bookstore, Dr. Butler found another academic sponsor: Yale University. (Later, when Connecticut seemed to shun the annual Peace Games Festival she established to teach children conflict resolution through games that rewarded cooperation over competition, she moved it to Harvard.)
        Although her male colleagues suggested that the university had been more supportive than she claimed, after her retirement in 1992 at the age of 79, Dr. Butler, who typically had led the campaign that overturned Connecticut's mandatory retirement at 70, transferred her journal and her papers to Hollins College in Virginia.
        She is survived by her daughter, Ann Wandell of Windham; a brother, Bruce McWilliams of Little Deer Isle, Me; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      