
        They were the Thelma and Louise of Nazi Poland, and if Hollywood hasn't tumbled to their story, it may be because Blanca Rosenberg and Maria Rosenbloom had too many hair-raising escapes, too many improbable rescues -- and far too much unremitting horror in between -- for a single script to handle.
        Then again, for all the appeal of the wily and intrepid heroines -- the blond, blue-eyed Bronislava, as Mrs. Rosenberg was known, and her brunet sidekick, Maria -- Mrs. Rosenberg's 1993 memoir, which described in rollicking and harrowing detail how the two young women survived the Holocaust while posing as Catholic peasants, left the story unfinished.
        While it continues for Dr. Rosenbloom, a retired professor at the Hunter School of Social Work who lives in Manhattan, the story has now ended for Mrs. Rosenberg, and with satisfying flair.
        Her death on Sept. 11 at her apartment in Manhattan -- at the age of 85, in her own bed, after a long, peaceful retirement and a distinguished career as an assistant professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work -- was a triumphant flick of her hand, almost six decades coming, to the German soldiers who had arrived in the small city of Kolomyja in eastern Poland (now Ukraine) on July 3, 1941, and tacked up posters that declared in three languages, ''Death to All Jews.''
        As Mrs. Rosenberg made clear in her book, ''To Tell at Last'' (University of Illinois Press), it did not take too many aktions in the increasingly depopulated Kolomyja ghetto for it to become apparent that the Nazi regime intended to kill each and every Jew in Poland -- including those, like Mrs. Rosenberg and Dr. Rosenbloom, who had documents identifying them as essential workers at a clothing factory.
        At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
        Mrs. Rosenberg's son, siblings, parents and other relatives died in the Holocaust, but her husband survived. The couple were divorced after the war, and she promptly married an old flame, Sam Rosenberg, a gynecologist who became a psychiatrist in New York. Dr. Rosenberg died in 1982.
        After watching her brother virtually volunteer for death during a mass ''selection,'' Mrs. Rosenberg escaped to the nearby city of Lwow armed with a birth certificate, supplied by her compassionate factory manager, belonging to a Polish Catholic woman who had died.
        If she had kept to herself, Mrs. Rosenberg might have had a safer time of it. But she was continually befriending those, like Dr. Rosenbloom, whose appearance increased the likelihood that they would be unmasked.
        As a ground-zero account of life on the run, Mrs. Rosenberg's book is filled with crosscuts between cities and a dizzying array of hurried apartment changes, narrow escapes and ruthless shakedowns by police officers, greedy landlords and freelance extortionists.
        In one scene, for example, the young women escape through a back window of a military hospital in Lwow, where they had been working, as the police are coming in the front door (they had been betrayed by one of Dr. Rosenbloom's former college classmates who had spotted her in a bookshop). This is swiftly followed by a scene in which they make their way in disguise past wanted posters with their pictures (from their hospital identifications) at the Lwow train station, which is in turn followed by their arrival in Warsaw -- in the midst of the abortive ghetto uprising of April 1943 -- and their immediate arrest on suspicion of being Jews.
        The two women spent the last months of the war working for German families in Heidelberg.
        Mrs. Rosenberg said that she originally wrote her book in 1948 as a way to deal with the paralyzing guilt she felt as a Holocaust survivor, and that she published it to satisfy her brother Romek's last request that she stay alive to tell the story of the Kolomyja ghetto to the world.
        She is survived by twin sons, Alex of Athens, Ga., and Mark of Coimbatore, India, and two grandchildren.
      