
        Dr. Helen Winthrop Edey, a philanthropist and psychiatrist who was active in the field of women's reproductive health and rights, died on Sept. 15 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 86 and lived on Martha's Vineyard and in Manhattan.
        Dr. Edey was the former Helen W. Kellogg, a daughter of Morris W. Kellogg, an industrialist who founded the Kellogg Company, a New Jersey-based manufacturer of oil industry equipment. The beneficiaries of her philanthropy included organizations trying to control population growth and to give women the right to choose the number of children they have. She also supported environmental causes and nuclear arms control.
        She was a former chairman and a longtime treasurer of the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, which has become AVSC International. (The term surgical contraception refers to methods of sterilization like vasectomy for men and tubal ligation for women.) The association is based in New York and works in the United States and more than 40 other countries to provide training and other support to health care professionals in the fields of family planning and reproductive health.
        Dr. Allan Rosenfield, dean of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University, said, ''Dr. Edey became a psychiatrist after her four children were born and had a remarkable professional career, both as a psychiatrist and as an individual who was very much concerned about women's reproductive health and rights.''
        Dr. Edey did much fund-raising on behalf of AVSC International. Working through the association and on her own, she also played a role in persuading a growing number of health care institutions in the United States to provide voluntary surgical contraception.
        Dr. Edey was long active in, and on the boards of, the Scherman Foundation, which works in various fields; the Edey Foundation, set up by her husband, Maitland A. Edey, an editor at Time Inc. and an author, which supports conservation activities on Martha's Vineyard, and the Martha's Vineyard Community Foundation.
        A native New Yorker, she graduated from Brearley School in Manhattan and in 1933 from Vassar. She received her medical degree in 1951 from New York University, graduated in 1962 from the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute in Manhattan and practiced psychiatry and psychoanalysis from 1957 to 1970 in Manhattan.
        Mr. Edey, the co-author of the book ''Lucy: The Beginnings of Mankind'' (1981), which won a National Book Award, died in 1992. Dr. Edey is survived by two sons, Maitland A. Jr. of Martha's Vineyard and Winthrop of Manhattan; two daughters, Beatrice Phear of Cambridge, Mass., and Marion Edey of Silver Spring, Md.; 13 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      