
        Tania Long, a war correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times who covered the London blitz and the Nuremburg trials, died Friday morning at her home in Ottawa. She was 85.
        After suffering from a series of illnesses, Ms. Long committed suicide, said Dr. Guy Genier, a coroner in Ottawa.
        ''She was a woman of strong character, strong principles, dedicated to her work,'' said Joan Gordon, a friend of Ms. Long's in Ottawa. ''Her life had become painful to her because of illness.''
        Born in Berlin on April 29, 1913, Ms. Long was the daughter of Russian-born Tatiana Mouraviev and Robert Crozier Long, a British journalist. Educated in Germany, France and England, Ms. Long studied economics, Russian literature and European history. She became an American citizen in 1935 and began her journalistic career a year later as a reporter for The Newark Ledger. She returned to Berlin in 1938 to work for The New York Herald Tribune, and joined The Tribune's London bureau in 1941. She was one of only a few women who were correspondents in World War II.
        In London, she wrote of the city's poor during the blitz and of the bombing of the Hotel Savoy. ''I was sitting in my third-floor room ready to get into bed when I heard the bombs coming,'' she wrote. ''Only a split second later, the next bomb hit the cornice of the hotel and went off, and almost immediately after that the other one hit the rear of the building. When one hears bombs coming that close, there is not time to do anything. One hasn't time to be afraid; that comes later.''
        During the war, Ms. Long married Raymond Daniell, the London bureau chief for The New York Times, and joined The Times as a reporter in February 1942. When Allied troops invaded Europe, Ms. Long, who continued to write under her maiden name, followed their advance, writing stories from liberated towns in France. She followed the Allied troops in Berlin, apparently the first female correspondent to do so.
        Ms. Long and Mr. Daniell became a prominent husband-wife journalistic team, covering the Nuremberg trials and postwar Germany. Ms. Long spoke the language of all four occupying powers -- English, French and Russian -- as well as German.
        From 1952 until 1964, she and her husband ran The Times's bureau in Ottawa, where they became prominent figures in Canada's political and journalistic circles. Honored upon their departure with a gala attended by the Canadian Prime Minister, the couple were hailed in The Ottawa Journal. The couple returned to Ottawa upon Mr. Daniell's retirement from The Times in 1967.
        Ms. Long's 1932 marriage to Merwin Mallory Gray in Paris ended in divorce six years later. A son from that marriage, Robert M. Gray, died of cancer, said Sarah Jennings, a Canadian arts journalist and a family friend. Mr. Daniell also died of cancer, in 1969. In the 1970's, Ms. Long became the first publicist for the National Arts Center of Canada.
        ''She was one of the breed of women that came out of the wartime era,'' said Ms. Jennings, ''most of whom were happily married and supportive of their husbands but in and of themselves were very strong-willed and independent.''
      