
        Frances Hamerstrom, who discovered a passion for observing nature as a young girl in Boston and pursued that passion throughout a life spent mostly in Wisconsin, died on Aug. 29 at Edgewater Haven, a nursing home in Port Edwards, Wis. She was 90.
        An author, conservationist and wildlife biologist, she died three days after her last foray into the grassy fields near her rural home in Plainfield, Wis., which she shared with a great horned owl that assisted her in attracting hawks.
        Bought and preserved through her fund-raising campaigns, the grasslands near Mrs. Hamerstrom's home shelter some 2,000 greater prairie chickens. The species, similar to the grouse, was stabilized largely through Mrs. Hamerstrom's efforts after farming and other human activities had shrunk its native prairie habitat.
        There on the prairie, she informally taught hundreds of visitors. Sometimes she would lead them to the nest of a kestrel, a type of falcon, where she would keep a baby bird warm inside her shirt until it was measured and banded. Then she would often load a mouse into a trap to toss it onto the road in hopes of catching an adult kestrel for banding.
        Each April and May, her assistants, from Boy Scouts to businessmen, would sit inside a canvas blind before dawn, often in freezing weather, to watch the ritual spring displays of male prairie chickens, who emit a hearty booming sound like a kettledrum that is heard for miles in the still air.
        At age 86, on a field trip in Peru to watch the black-collared hawk feed on fish, she broke a hip trying to reach a hunting area while traveling with a guide up a tributary of the Amazon. She was evacuated by canoe. Then, at 87, she went back to Peru and traveled up another river in an effort to observe indigenous hunters.
        Among her 12 books was ''Harrier Hawk of the Marshes: The Hawk That Is Ruled by a Mouse,'' the result of her 25-year study of the relationship between the harrier and the vole. It was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press in 1986.
        Mrs. Hamerstrom and her husband, Frederick, met and married on the East Coast and then both attended the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Hamerstrom, always proud that she had flunked out of Smith College, received a bachelor's degree in 1935. They also both went to the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where they studied with the conservationist Aldo Leopold, the author of ''Sand County Almanac.'' Mrs. Hamerstrom received a master's degree there in 1940.
        In the 1930's, Frances Hamerstrom was one of the first women to ''crash the barrier into the all-male wildlife research profession,'' said Dr. Ray Anderson, a retired professor at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point. She also became a crack wing-shot with a Parker 20-gauge shotgun and wrote a book called ''Is She Coming, Too?'' about the hunting trips she had taken at her husband's side. Both of them worked for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. Her husband died in 1990.
        Mrs. Hamerstrom, who was born in Needham, Mass., is survived by two children, Elva Hamerstrom Paulson of Roseburg, Ore., and Alan Hamerstrom of Arnold, Md.; two granddaughters, and a brother, Putnam Flint of Weston, Mass.
        To allocate her time, Mrs. Hamerstrom applied the ''Hamerstrom Rule of Thirds'': a third for the worthless red tape that your boss requires; a third for doing what is wanted of you; a third for doing exactly what you please.
        She lived for 50 years in a house with no running water that had not been painted since the Civil War and had no heat aside from a few cast-iron wood-burning stoves. She only occasionally swept around the piles of turtle shells, snowshoes, wildlife gear, books and files, all of which served as evidence of what it was that pleased her.
      