
        Pauline Julien, who sang songs of passion and of tender love, died on Wednesday in Montreal. The chanteuse, who was 70, was most strongly identified with the songs she sang in the cause of a separate and independent Quebec.
        Ms. Julien took her own life at her home after leaving a note saying she did not want to be revived, said her sister, Fabienne Julien. She said the singer suffered from aphasia, a condition that severely limits the power to use or understand words, and had grown despondent as the disease progressed.
        In a singing career that spanned more than 35 years and two continents, Ms. Julien became a beloved figure to French-speaking audiences who were touched by her stirring performances and forceful style. She recorded 22 albums containing more than 200 songs, including about 30 that she composed.
        She popularized homespun Quebecois music in France and helped revive the popularity of sophisticated French music in Quebec. She interpreted the music of Kurt Weill and the Quebec composer Gilles Vigneault. One of her most popular songs was called ''Tonight I Feel Tender,'' a ballad that became a theme that she performed at many performances.
        But from the time she first returned to Quebec from Paris in the late 1950's she formed part of the inspirational soul of the separatist movement in Quebec. She fell in love with the Quebecois poet and journalist Gerald Godin, a staunch separatist, and fought with him for Quebec separatism.
        During a crisis in Quebec in 1970 when Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau sent the Canadian Army into the streets of Montreal in response to separatist violence, Ms. Julien and Mr. Godin were among a number of Quebecers who were swept off the streets and briefly jailed.
        After Mr. Godin was elected to the province's assembly in 1976, the year the separatist party won control of the provincial government, she appeared regularly at major separatist rallies, leading huge crowds in song and fiery speeches.
        She played a major role in fighting for women's rights and in obtaining the right to abortion in predominately Catholic Quebec.
        ''Madame Julien lived intensely,'' said Lucien Bouchard, premier of Quebec. ''Her voice, the words of her songs -- above all on the question of love, friendship and her country -- her charisma and her passionate character are deeply etched in our collective memory.''
        Ms. Julien was born in Trois-Rivieres, Quebec, in 1928. She studied drama in Paris in the 1950's and  began singing there in bistros and bohemian clubs.
        Jean Paul Goay, Ms. Julien's brother-in-law, said that on the night before she died she insisted on being taken to a show in Montreal where an old friend, the French comedian Raymond Davos, was performing. ''She told him then that they would never see each other again, but he didn't understand exactly what it signified,'' Mr. Goay said.
        In the early 1990's, after 30 years of a common-law marriage, Ms. Julien and Mr. Godin were formally married. He died of a brain tumor in 1994.
        In her later years Ms. Julien retired from active performing and traveled to Africa to work with the poor in Burkina Faso and other French-speaking countries.
        She is survived by two children, Pascale and Nicolas, both of Montreal, from her first marriage to Jacques Galipeau, which ended in divorce.
      