
        Joan Hickson, a stage, screen and television actress who became an international celebrity when she played Miss Marple, Agatha Christie's sharp-witted elderly detective, in a BBC television series from 1984 to 1992, died over the weekend at a hospital in Colchester, Essex, said her son, Nicholas Butler. She was 92.
        Though Miss Hickson acted in more than 80 movies and had a considerable stage career, it was as Miss Marple, a role she took on in her late 70's, that she achieved her most success and her greatest renown. On ''Mystery!,'' she played the part just as Christie had written it: as a seemingly fluffy and disorganized spinster whose vast understanding of human nature and formidable, cleareyed intelligence helped her solve the mysteries that visited her village with uncanny regularity.
        Miss Hickson took to her late television career with relish, saying she thought that Miss Marple was a ''splendid'' person because there was ''nothing you could say or do that would shock her.'' Among her legions of fans, drawn from the more than 30 countries in which the series appeared, was Queen Elizabeth, who awarded Miss Hickson the Order of the British Empire in 1987.
        Born in Kingsthorpe, Northampton, in 1906, Joan Hickson began acting as soon as she could despite disapproval from her relatives. ''My Aunt Aggie -- she was about four feet tall -- drew herself up to her full height and said, 'What is Joan's destination to be?,' which she thought was the gutter, you see,'' she once recalled in an interview. Her first appearance, in 1927, was in a provincial theater company as an aristocrat.
        Later, she appeared often in West End comedies, often taking on the role of a slightly batty aunt or a befuddled middle-aged woman, characters with names like Mrs. Pottle, Gladys Rumbelow and Mrs. Mould. During World War II, when London was prone to sudden bombing, she appeared in the Open Air Theater in Regent's Park.
        ''We kept one eye on the sky to see what was coming over,'' she recalled. ''We used to feel the audience were being damned stupid because they sort of hurled themselves on the ground.''
        After a long stage career, which included appearances in Henry James's ''The Tragic Muse'' and Ian Hay's ''The Gusher,'' she began to appear more and more often in movies, including ''The Guinea Pig'' (1948), ''The Card'' (1952) and ''The  39 Steps'' (1959).
        Speaking of the scores of films she made, she once said: ''I watch these old films in black and white, and suddenly the door opens and there I am. The other day I was wearing the most awful hat.''
        She returned often to the stage. Later in her career, she appeared in three of Peter Nichols's plays: ''A Day in the Death of Joe Egg'' (1967), ''The Freeway'' and ''Forget-Me-Not Lane'' (1967). She also played Mrs. Bradman in the National Theater Company's production of Sir Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' (1976) and won a Tony Award as best supporting actress for her performance as Delia in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Bedroom Farce'' (1977).
        Before she became television's definitive Miss Marple (''there were 30 others in the queue for auditions,'' she said), she appeared in the slender role of Miss Pryce in a 1946 West End production of Christie's ''Appointment With Death.'' Christie  happened to sit in the audience one night, and sent Miss Hickson a prophetic note afterward that read, ''I hope one day you will play my dear Miss Marple.''
        ''Retirement is fatal,'' Miss Hickson once said, and she continued working long after the Miss Marple series ended, recording audio books of Christie mysteries. Her husband, Eric Butler, a family doctor, died in 1967. She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      