
        Megs Jenkins, a British stage, film and television actress who specialized in playing kindly, matronly characters, died on Oct. 5, said a spokeswoman for the Gordon Rodwell Funeral Service in Felixstow, Suffolk, where her funeral was held. She was 81.
        Miss Jenkins played many parts in her long career, but she was best known for her portrayal of nurses, governesses, maids, cooks, long-suffering wives and wise mothers. With her unglamorous looks and her plump, open face, she seemed made for sympathy and found herself typecast in supporting, or supportive, roles.
        Born Muguette Mary Jenkins in Birkenhead, Cheshire, in 1917, Miss Jenkins harbored dreams of becoming a ballet dancer but turned to acting, and dispensed with her exotic first name, she said, when she realized that she did not have a dancer's physique.
        ''It was sad, really,'' she once said. ''I was this same unsylphlike shape when I was 17. I had fancied I might call myself by my real name, Muguette, once I became a ballerina. But I had to face the fact that I was quite definitely a Megs.''
        After studying at the School of Dancing and Dramatic Art in Liverpool, she took her first professional role, as a German hausfrau in ''The Lift That Failed,'' in a production by the Liverpool Repertory Company in 1933. She remained with the company for four years, then moved to London.
        She had a long and distinguished stage career, veering several times from the roles in which she was typecast: she played a cruel, mentally unstable mother in Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke'' (1951), for instance, and the title role in Pinero's ''School Mistress'' (1954).
        She was particularly praised for her role as a show-business fan in Emlyn Williams's ''Light of Heart'' (1940) and for her portrayal of the mother of a possible second messiah in a Welsh farming community during the Crimean War in another Emlyn Williams play, ''The Wind of Heaven'' (1945).
        In 1956, she won the Clarence Derwent Award, then Britain's highest stage prize, for best supporting performance in Arthur Miller's ''View from the Bridge,'' in which she played a wife trying desperately to ignore her husband's incestuous feelings for his niece.
        During World War II, she appeared in a number of patriotic movies intended to boost morale and support the war effort, including ''Millions Like Us'' (1943), about wartime factory workers, and ''The Lamp Still Burns,'' in which she played, not for the first or last time, a nurse.
        She appeared in dozens of films, including ''The Brothers'' (1947), a strange melodrama set on the Isle of Skye; ''The Innocents'' (1961), a film based on Henry James's novella ''The Turn of the Screw,'' in which she played the nervous housemaid, and ''Indiscreet'' (1958), playing Ingrid Bergman's housekeeper.
        Perhaps her most successful film was ''The History of Mr. Polly'' (1949), an adaption of H. G. Wells's comic novel, in which she seemed perfectly cast as a homey, dependable landlady.
        Her television work included a role in the popular series ''All Creatures Great and Small,'' based on the James Herriot books, and a part in the comedy series ''Young at Heart,'' in which she played a bickering retiree opposite John Mills, who had been her co-star in ''The History of Mr. Polly.''
        Miss Jenkins's 1943 marriage to George Routledge, a commando who had been a childhood classmate, and who renewed their acquaintance when he saw her name in a review, ended in divorce in 1959.
      