
        Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone, the grande dame of sex education, died yesterday at the Kendal at Longwood nursing home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 94 and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for the last decade.
        Indefatigable and fired by a zeal for sexual responsibility and realism, Dr. Calderone persuaded a recalcitrant American Medical Association to let doctors dispense birth control as a matter of course to their patients, and she set in motion the means of educating schoolchildren about human sexuality.
        Dr. Calderone did more than any other individual to convince both the medical profession and the public that human sexuality goes far beyond the sex act. She heralded it as a multifaceted and vital part of a healthy life that should not be hidden under a shroud of secrecy or limited to erotic expression.
        One of her favorite challenges to young audiences she addressed was to ask for a four-letter word ending in ''k'' that meant sexual intercourse. Over a chorus of titters, she would give her answer: ''talk.'' Then she would explain, ''We never talk to each other as nonsexual people.''
        Dr. Calderone, the daughter of the photographer Edward Steichen, was a woman of many talents and diverse interests who did not find her true calling until midlife. Following graduation from Vassar College, where she majored in chemistry, she decided to go on the stage, but abandoned her acting career when she realized she could never be as good as Katherine Cornell.
        At the age of 30, after a failed marriage to a fellow actor, W. Lon Martin, and the birth of two daughters, Nell and Linda, she decided to go to medical school.
        She received an M.D. degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester and a master's degree in public health in 1942 from the Columbia University School of Public Health. While at Columbia she met Dr. Frank Calderone, then a district health officer on the Lower East Side who would soon become deputy commissioner of health for New York City and her second husband. The couple was married in 1941.
        Dr. Calderone served for some years as a school physician in Great Neck, L.I. In 1953 she became medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, where she carried forward Margaret Sanger's mission for family planning.
        In 1964 Dr. Calderone realized one of her crowning goals: she convinced the trustees of the American Medical Association that the nation's leading organization of physicians should disseminate information on reproduction and birth control and endorse the prescription of birth control measures to all patients who needed them. The trustees' proposal was adopted, helping to move birth control into the mainstream of American medicine.
        Three years earlier, as a representative of family planning, she took part in the first American Conference on Church and Family run by the National Council of Churches. Attended by sociologists, religious leaders, educators and public health professionals, the conference highlighted the suffering of thousands of people because of ignorance about frigidity, impotence, homosexuality and contraception.
        With five colleagues at the conference, Dr. Calderone set up an informal committee to study human sexuality. Out of that committee grew Dr. Calderone's signature achievement, the co-founding of the Sex Information and Education Council of the United States in 1964. Dr. Calderone then resigned from Planned Parenthood to turn her attention from reproductive biology to education in human sexuality.
        Better known by its acronym Siecus, the council was created to help teachers, therapists and other professionals establish human sexuality as an integral part of health and health education. Under her guidance, Siecus became the moving force for education about human sexuality in the schools as well as in the community. The organization publishes ''Guidelines for Sexuality Education: Kindergarten through 12th Grade'' and helps schools around the country set up comprehensive sex education programs.
        As the president of Siecus, Dr. Calderone stood out in the 1960's as an innovator, one of a handful of educators, scientists and philosophers who were beginning to address the big topics of human existence like death and sexuality. She was an unstinting advocate for the acceptance of masturbation as a wholesome, normal and almost universal practice for people of all ages.
        Dr. Calderone was far more than a female doctor championing a cause. Her theatrical training, coupled with her carriage, poise and authoritative voice, helped her to get her message across that children are born sexual beings and remain so until they die and that people of all ages need and deserve a proper sexual education.
        Dr. Calderone believed sex education in the schools should start in kindergarten, and under her direction Siecus helped to set up sex education programs in thousands of schools throughout the country. After stepping down from the presidency, she joined New York University as an adjunct professor in its program on human sexuality. She was active professionally until age 80.
        Almost from birth, Mary Steichen was a natural leader: optimistic, determined, resilient and forthright, who from early childhood knew how to speak her mind. At age 6, for example, she criticized the sculptor Constantin Brancusi, a family friend, for creating ''L'Oiseau d'Or'' with a horizontal head, a position that she said would make it impossible for the bird to sing. Brancusi's later bird sculptures had more uplifted heads.
        Her imposing appearance combined with her strong personality helped her advance her causes and also to defend them against attacks by groups like the Christian Crusade, the John Birch Society and Moral Majority, who contended that her promotion of sex education in schools was encouraging a premature and unhealthy participation in sexual experience and usurping the role of parents in guiding their children's lives. Her reply was that if parents were doing their job properly there would be no need for school-based sex education.
        A devout Quaker and a Republican, she was once labeled by the John Birch Society as an ''aging sexual libertine.'' She reminded her critics that modern children were in desperate need of sex education because they were sexually vulnerable: ''devoid of chaperones, supervision, rules and close family relations and subject to onslaughts of commercial sexual exploitation.''
        But recognizing that a child's sexual attitudes are often shaped before school age, Dr. Calderone also focused on educating parents. Through Siecus she established Parent Learning Centers to teach adults about their own sexuality as well as their children's.
        In 1981 she and Eric Johnson wrote a widely praised book, ''The Family Book About Sexuality,'' which was published in five languages. The following year, she and James W. Ramey were the co-authors of ''Talking With Your Child About Sex,'' published in four languages.
        Dr. Calderone also contributed to many professional publications and served as editor of texts on abortion and family planning.
        Though Dr. Calderone saw serendipity as a major architect of her success, she did not always lead a charmed life. She grew up as the daughter of a working artist. Her mother, Clara, was considered cold, and their relationship adversarial.
        When her parents divorced, Mary, then 10, chose to live with her father. Not until nearly seven decades after the divorce was she able to bury the emotional hatchet that had estranged her from her mother.
        Dr. Calderone's own experiences as a mother were also difficult. Her 8-year-old daughter, Nell, died of pneumonia, plunging her into a debilitating depression.
        Her marriage to Dr. Calderone, who later became chief administrative officer of the World Health Organization, produced two more daughters, Dr. Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist, and Dr. Maria Calderone, a veterinarian in Galena, Ohio, born almost 20 years after her oldest daughter, Linda Hodes, a psychotherapist in Albuquerque, N.M.
        The Calderones separated in 1979 but never divorced. Dr. Frank Calderone died in 1987.
        In addition to her daughters, Mary Calderone is survived by three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 10, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Oct. 25 about Dr. Mary S. Calderone, who battled political and religious groups to take sex education to schools, misstated her political affiliation. She was a Democrat, not a Republican. The list of survivors also misidentified the public health degree held by a daughter, Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist. It is a master's, not a doctorate.
      