
        IN November 1939, shortly after Adolf Hitler touched off World War II, a British writer commented about the two World Wars: ''The last one was a soldier's war. This one is everybody's.''
        ''And so it was,'' said an octogenarian, Ruth Kornblum, who lives in White Plains. She flew planes for the Army Air Forces in World War II and will mark another Veterans Day on Nov. 11.
        Soon after Europe went to war in 1939, American men volunteered or were drafted as America prepared. But women went to war, too, going into factories, into desk jobs and into the military. Mrs. Kornblum, then Ruth Kupferberg of Eastchester, was one of them. At 25, she was single and a registered nurse. She first volunteered to join a military hospital unit but ended up as a civilian flier of military planes. The United States was still at peace early in 1941 when she was introduced to a man who operated a flying service at Little Ferry, N.J., and in the course of the friendship he taught her how to fly the company's seaplane.
        The two most famous American women in aviation at that time were Amelia Earhart, who had disappeared in the Pacific while on an around-the-world flight in 1939, and Jacqueline Cochran, who in 1953 became the first woman to break the sound barrier.
        When Britain went to war, Ms. Cochran, an ambitious and daring woman, recruited 22 American female pilots to ferry warplanes in Britain. They flew Hurricanes, Mosquitos and Lancaster bombers from factories to Royal Air Force bases. Ms. Cochran once flew a bomber across the Atlantic to Britain on a lend-lease delivery.
        When the United States entered the war, Ms. Cochran and the volunteers were ordered home. She made a pitch to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and to General of the Army Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, chief of the Army Air Forces, to get women involved in military flying to free men for combat air duty. There were already plenty of experienced female pilots; 500 of them belonged to the Women Flyers of America.
        The Government moved slowly but finally arrived at a compromise. It gave the female fliers civil service status for what was really a military job -- ferrying planes around the country from factories to air bases and from one base to another. They eventually received uniforms that looked like officers' uniforms, wore wings and insignia that looked like officers' issue and had meals at the officers' mess at air bases. Like the men, they went through close-order drill every morning to make them march like a military group. But they were civilians under military jurisdiction. Ms. Cochran wanted officers' commissions for the female fliers, but there was pressure on Congress from thousands of civilian men who also wanted Army Air Forces commissions.
        Mrs. Kornblum said that at the time her desire to learn to fly intensified and that she asked to be relieved of her enlistment in a military nursing group. She quit her nursing job and continued her flying lessons. Her objective was to attain the essential 35 hours of solo flying because Ms. Cochran, who was director of the newly organized Women's Airforce Service Pilots, had sent out a call for volunteers. As a result, 25,000 women applied, and Mrs. Kornblum was one of the 1,860 accepted as WASP's for training in April 1943. She switched from seaplanes to land planes and in winter even trained on planes equipped with skis.
        The WASP's were trained at Avenger Field in Sweetwater, Tex. Mrs. Kornblum and the other hopeful aviators paid for their own transportation to get there. They were in training for six months and got a $150 monthly salary, which was increased to $250 upon graduation. It was the same instruction given the male Air Corps recruits.
        Mrs. Kornblum was in the sixth group to receive instruction. They studied meteorology, navigation, engines and the Morse code, and learned how to load cargo in a plane.
        Searching her memory back 65 years, Mrs. Kornblum said: ''I really enjoyed it. Texans were friendly to us, inviting us to barbecues, and one rancher even sent over buffalo steaks -- remember, meat and a lot of other things were rationed.
        ''We all had parachutes, and they taught us what to do if we had to bail out. However, we didn't actually make any practice jumps. Except for one girl. She got her induction to parachute jumping by mistake. ''She was flying solo in a single-engine, open-cockpit plane when she made a training spin that turned it upside down. She had neglected to tighten her seat belt and went flying into space. Luckily, she pulled the rip cord, like she had been trained, and came back to earth safely.''
        Mrs. Kornblum continued: ''But, you know, you don't learn everything in class. I was flying a Cub from El Paso, Tex., to Rome, N.Y. -- an awfully long distance for a plane that flew 80 miles an hour. I had no instruments, just a compass, and I had to go over a 9,000-foot-mountain. And it was cold because we had open cockpits and no heater. That plane generally flew at 3,000 feet. I had to circle round and round, gaining a little altitude each time, until I finally got even with the peak. I cleared the top so close I could see bugs on the ground! Then I immediately had to look for a landing field because I needed gas. That trip took a week.''
        But she did not think of herself as particularly courageous. Still feisty at 81, Mrs. Kornblum said: ''We all loved to fly, and we were doing our bit for the war. That's all.''
        She recalled another flying incident, saying: ''Another time, we were in a group, five or six planes, flying west out of Lockhaven, Pa., and we ran into massive head winds. We weren't too high, and when we looked down on the highway we could see cars and even Amish horse and buggies traveling faster than we were. We had no radio contact, but when we saw the group leader descend -- with no airfield in sight, we all followed and landed in a grassy field to wait until the wind subsided. We had to go to a farmhouse to telephone our destination that we'd be late. The group leader told them, 'Not to worry, we're all in one piece.' ''
        While Mrs. Kornblum was flying AT6's and Cubs, other WASP's flew B-17 Flying Fortresses, A-20 Havoc attack bombers and P-51 Mustang pursuit planes.
        In 1977, through the intercession of Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona, the WASP's were recognized for wartime military service and awarded honorable discharges, given medals and veterans' benefits.
        Mrs. Kornblum does not fly anymore, but she is still active and, except for a little arthritis, fit.
        One of her volunteer activities is doing ''a bit of everything'' for the Fort Hill Theater group, but she does not act herself. ''I do not perform,'' she said. ''I get cold feet!''
      