
        Elaine Benson, whose gallery in Bridgehampton, N.Y., was a fixture on the East End summer art scene for more than three decades, died on Monday at her home in Bridgehampton.
        She was 74 years old and died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, her family  said.
        Elaine Klebanoff was born in Philadelphia in 1924. She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1942 married Warren Goff, a law student who became a lighting consultant. She worked as a reporter for  The Philadelphia Inquirer and as public relations director of the Philadelphia Museum College of Art, now called the Philadelphia College of Art. There she met her second husband, Emmanuel Benson, an art historian and educator. They married in 1963 and in 1965 moved to Bridgehampton where they opened an art gallery in their home, a Victorian gingerbread on Route 27.
        The gallery, which ultimately expanded to include seven interconnected barns and outbuildings on the property, was open from May through September. For many on the East End, its annual opening in early May represented the beginning of the summer season.
        Exhibitions focused on the work of artists living full or part time in the East End, a fairly impressive pool of candidates by any standard. Among those who had solo shows at the gallery were Lee Krasner, Jimmy Ernst, Sid Solomon, Larry Rivers, Bob Dash, Alfonso Ossorio, James Brooks, Polly Kraft and Bill King.
        But in many ways the sprawling group show that juxtaposed the work of artists young and old, famous and not, was more representative of the gallery's character. A world traveler, Mrs. Benson also had shows of wall-hangings from Pakistan, pre-Columbian sculpture, African sculptures, Jain manuscripts and Indian thankas.
        To support the gallery, Mrs. Benson worked as director of community relations at Southampton Hospital for 25 years.
        She contributed articles to Craft Horizon and other publications, and beginning in 1966 wrote a weekly column for Dan's Papers, never missing a week, even when she was out of town.
        Her last column, which discussed her illness, was printed on Thursday.
        In her spare time, she raised funds for several East End causes and institutions, from the Animal Rescue Fund to the John Steinbeck Writers' Room at the Southampton campus of Long Island University.
        Mr. Benson died in 1971, and in 1974 Mrs. Benson married Joseph Kaufman, a historian and bibliographer who died in 1995.
        She is survived by her brother, Steven Klebanoff of Rye, N.Y.; two sons, William Goff of Kent, Conn. and Neal Goff of Manhattan; two daughters, Ginny Goff Green of Loveladies, N.J., and Kimberly Goff of Bridgehampton; and three grandchildren.
      