
        Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington. Ms. Kreig, a former resident of Manhattan, was 76.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Kreig (pronounced craig) researched her topics by traveling with scientific expeditions to such places as South and Central America. To write about Chinese medicine, she traveled to China in the early 1970's and was one of the first Americans to tour medical centers there.
        Besides her many magazine articles she wrote two books of nonfiction, ''Green Medicine: The Search for the Plants That Heal'' (Rand McNally, 1964), and ''Black Market Medicine'' (Prentice Hall, 1967). ''Green Medicine'' told of the scientific quest for natural remedies in tropical rain forests as well as in up-to-date laboratories. For ''Black Market Medicine,'' she accompanied Federal undercover agents and wrote of organized crime groups that counterfeited prescription medicines and secretly took them to market.
        Ms. Kreig was born in Chicago and was a fashion model as a young woman. She served in the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II. Intermittently, she attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University.
        In the late 1940's and 50's, she  researched the spread of drug abuse among middle-class youths in the United States and worked with the Federal authorities at a drug treatment center in Lexington, Ky. She also reported on early developments in automobile seat belts, contact lenses and other consumer items.
        She was a public relations consultant to pharmaceutical and other manufacturing companies, and was a staff writer and editor at Parents' Magazine. Sometimes using the pen name Peggy Craig, she also wrote murder mysteries and television scripts about crime.
        Ms. Kreig was divorced from her first husband, Albert A. Kreig, who died in 1988.
        She is survived by her husband, William McAfee; three sons, Raymond Kreig of Anchorage, Andrew Kreig of Washington and Lawrence Kreig of Framingham, Mass.; her mother, Gladys Baltzell Jennings of Clinton, Ark.; and a sister, Frances Stover of Wilmington, N.C.
      