
        Haru Matsukata Reischauer, a journalist and author who was influential in diplomatic affairs in the 1960's as the wife of the United States Ambassador to Japan, died on Sept. 23 in La Jolla, Calif. She was 83.
        The cause of death was heart failure, a former colleague said.
        Mrs. Reischauer's deep understanding of both Japanese and American cultures and mores made her highly qualified to ease tensions between the two countries in the early 60's. As the embassy's First Lady, she was crucial, her former colleagues said, in bringing a psychological end to the postwar occupation of Japan.
        She grew up in Tokyo, the daughter of a prominent Japanese statesman and a mother who was an American of Japanese descent. As a child, she had an American tutor, and she graduated from Principia  College in Illinois.
        Late in life, she traced the roots of her family's tradition of statesmanship and their appreciation of America. In ''Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage'' (Harvard University Press, 1986) she told the story of her two grandfathers: one, born to a peasant family, became a wealthy silk merchant in New York; the other, from a samurai family, rose to be Prime Minister twice and a powerful Finance Minister responsible for overhauling Japan's financial system in the 19th century.
        Not until the end of World War II -- which she spent in Japan, feeling ''totally out of place,'' said a colleague from her embassy days -- did her bicultural background become useful.
        ''Suddenly, everything opened up,'' said George R. Packard, who is now president of the U.S.-Japan Foundation in New York. During the 1950's, she wrote regularly about Japan for The Saturday Evening Post and The Christian Science Monitor.
        But it was through her husband that she became an major influence in establishing friendly relations between the United States and Japan. The writer James Michener introduced her to Edwin O. Reischauer, a widower with three children and a Harvard professor of Japanese Studies. As teen-agers, it turned out, they had gone to the same Tokyo high school, where she had had a secret crush on him.
        Robert Immerman, a senior research associate at Columbia University's East Asian Institute, who also worked at the American Embassy when she was there, said that before her marriage in 1956, ''she was never at home in either culture.'' Afterward, he said, she moved easily in both. ''Somehow that relationship fulfilled her.''
        In 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Mr. Reischauer Ambassador to Japan. ''Relations seemed to be coming apart,'' Mr. Packard said. The Japanese Government was under pressure at the time from groups on the left that wanted to end the security arrangement with the United States.
        In those tense times, Mrs. Reischauer could easily have found herself distrusted by both the Americans and the Japanese. Instead, said Mr. Packard -- who was then a special assistant to the Ambassador -- she became widely respected, even esteemed.
        She came to be considered Japan's most popular woman, after the Empress. She went out of her way to be considerate with embassy employees, said Mr. Immerman, a junior embassy officer at the time. For instance, she opened the swimming pool, long reserved for the Ambassador's family, to everyone. She brought in influential Japanese people ignored by earlier administrations -- intellectuals, writers and leaders of citizens' groups.
        She and her husband were a team.  Before making decisions, Mr. Reischauer would consult with his wife, Mr. Immerman recalled.
        ''She had a major role in helping him shape U.S. policy,'' he said.
        In 1966, at the conclusion of his appointment, the Reischauers returned to Cambridge, Mass., and to Harvard. Later, they went to California. Mr. Reischauer died in 1990.
        One stepson, Robert D. of Bethseda, Md., following the family tradition of public service, went on to become director of the Congressional Budget Office and is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.  She is also survived by two stepdaughters, Ann Heinemann of La Jolla and Joan Simon of Larchmont, N.Y.; two sisters, Naka Rawthroen of Los Angeles and Mari Bruck of Studio City, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Packard described her role in bringing together the United States and Japan. ''She, herself, was a bridge,'' he said. ''She represented an America that was friendly and respectful to Japan.''
      