
        Alicia Parla, a sinuous Cuban-born beauty who had a brief but incandescent run as the international Queen of the Rumba, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in Miami. She was 84 and was recalled as the teen-age sensation who became the toast of New York and Paris, captivated crowned heads of Europe and taught the rumba to the Prince of Wales, Josephine Baker and a generation of Depression-weary revelers.
        O.K., it wasn't the rumba. As purists never tire of pointing out, the dance by that name that swept America and Europe in the 1930's and became an Arthur Murray staple was such a tame, watered-down version of the Afro-Cuban original that it was closer to a dance the Cubans call the son.
        Never mind. The authentic street rumba of Havana, whose extravagant, explicit gestures seem more suggestive of mating than of a mating dance, is not something one would have actually wanted to do on a dance floor before the 1980's, or ever on stage.
        Whatever its pedigree, in Miss Parla's hands, or rather hips, the dance the world came to know as the rumba was such an appealing sight that she and it became overnight sensations.
        For Miss Parla, at least, it took some doing. A native of Havana, where her father was a prominent doctor, she attended a convent school in Key West, Fla., then moved to New York with her mother during a period of political instability in Cuba in the 1920's.
        Fortunately, as she pointed out in a 1995 interview with John Dorschner of The Miami Herald, her father, a man so strict that he would never have countenanced dancing as a career, stayed behind in Havana.
        Not that her mother was not strict, too. From the time she was 9, Miss Parla recalled, her mother warned her almost daily that if she did not remain a virgin she would never find a man to marry her.
        It was advice that Miss Parla seems to have taken to heart, in part, perhaps, because her admitted teen-age ambition was to marry a millionaire.
        Her father had other ideas, insisting that his daughter obtain a measure of self-sufficiency by learning to type, ''until a millionaire comes along, as he put it.''
        A dutiful daughter, Miss Parla obliged, but since she was a little girl her real passion had been dancing, and when a man who ran a dance studio in her apartment building marveled at her skill, she began to get the notion that she might actually become a professional.
        She got her chance in 1931 after she began working as a 17-year-old cigarette girl at a Greenwich Village nightclub, a job she was able to take over her mother's objections only after promising never to let her father know, agreeing to let her mother serve as on-the-job chaperone and threatening suicide, something Miss Parla did with alarming regularity throughout her life.
        Then came the inevitable night that the club's Spanish dancer became ill. Miss Parla volunteered to take her place, and, well, she was such a hit and gained such confidence that when the celebrated Cuban band leader Don Azpiazu issued a call for a rumba dancer for a gig at the Paramount a few weeks later, Miss Parla tried out, along with 150 other hopefuls, and got the job.
        During rehearsals she was paired with a man, but she found him so clumsy and the whole experience so embarrassing that she persuaded Mr. Azpiazu to let her dance alone, as she did from then on. ''The rumba is very sexual,'' she explained, ''and I didn't like doing it with a partner.''
        The decision may well have been crucial in allowing the rumba's eventual acceptance by a puritanical world, since for all Miss Parla's sensuous gyrations, the sight of a woman dancing alone was simply not as sexually suggestive as a couple dancing together.
        It was the Paramount engagement that helped make the Azpiazu recording of ''El Manisero'' (''The Peanut Vendor'') a national hit and the foundation of the rumba craze of the 1930's.
        After touring the United States with the Azpiazu orchestra (a musician's wife serving as her chaperone), then dancing with another orchestra at the Tavern on the Green in Central Park, Miss Parla (and her mother) joined Mr. Azpiazu for a European tour in 1932.
        It was during an engagement in Monte Carlo that Miss Parla caught the eye of two future kings of England, Edward, the Prince of Wales, and his brother Albert, the Duke of York, who later became King George VI. The next day Edward summoned Miss Parla to his villa to teach him the rumba, as she did (with her mother tagging along). ''He got it,'' she said. ''He was very good.''
        When another of her Monte Carlo conquests, Maurice Chevalier, asked her to go to Nice with him for the night, Miss Parla declined, saying, as she recalled, ''Oh, Mr. Chevalier, I'm so sorry. I'm a virgin.''
        For all her triumph in Monte Carlo, Miss Parla was hardly prepared for what happened when she opened in Paris that July. When she made her entrance walking down a grand staircase wearing a slave scarf and a costume decorated in red, white and blue, the colors of the Cuban flag, the crowd went wild, she recalled, and began shouting ''Vive La France.''
        Miss Parla later learned that it was Bastille Day and that the crowd had taken it as a tribute to France when she appeared wearing the colors of the French flag. The next day,  she was hailed by critics as ''the Cuban Mariana,'' (the French Uncle Sam, she was told) and the name stuck. Within weeks, ''Mariana scarfs,'' copied from her costume, were on sale in chic French shops, Miss Parla had taught Josephine Baker to rumba and had made a side trip to Brussels, where King Leopold was so enchanted he gave her a box of chocolates so big she danced on it for him.
        After a triumphant return to the United States aboard the Ile de France in 1933, Miss Parla spent a year dancing at Mon Paris nightclub, where she was hailed by Walter Winchell as ''that lovely Havana torso flipper.'' Finally bowing to her father's wishes, she returned to Havana at the end of 1934 and married a few months later. She was not yet 21, but her reign as the Queen of the Rumba was over.
        After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
        When Fidel Castro seized power in 1959, Miss Parla, by then married to a Batista government official, fled to the United States and settled in Miami. To make ends meet the former Queen of the Rumba, her father's daughter to the end, spent 20 years working as a typist.
        Miss Parla is survived by a daughter, Ileana Comas, and a sister, Zilia Navarete, both of Miami, and two grandsons.
      