
        Elizabeth Chapman Gilkeson, an educator associated with the Bank Street College of Education for more than four decades and the founding director of its School for Children, died on Oct. 7 at her home in lower Manhattan. She was 95.
        As a senior faculty member of Bank Street College, Mrs. Gilkeson helped develop many of the programs that define the institution, now on West 112th Street in Morningside Heights.
        She joined the staff in 1955 as head of the children's program division; though she retired in the 1970's, she  remained active in the college's affairs, including its seminars on professional development.
        The predecessor to the School for Children had its modest start in 1919, three years after Bank Street College opened as the Bureau of Educational Experiments. Under Mrs. Gilkeson's guidance, what began as an interdisciplinary program with nine toddlers took shape as an innovative learning environment in which young children were encouraged to interact with teachers, parents, their urban surroundings and one another.
        Mrs. Gilkeson was born in Bethel, Me. She graduated from Vassar College in 1924 and, 10 years later, became a founder of the progressive Poughkeepsie Day School on the Vassar campus. She also was a member of the Vassar child study faculty through 1949.
        She earned a master's degree at Columbia Teachers College in 1942, studied child and adult development at the Carolyn Zachary Institute in the late 1940's and pursued doctoral studies at Columbia in the early 1950's.
        After joining the full-time staff, she expanded the School for Children beyond the nursery years to include pupils through the eighth grade, developed programs for children and parents and founded the Polly Miller Child Center in Marble Hill.
        She supervised psychiatric residents from Albert Einstein Medical School at the School for Children, developed the multidisciplinary 42d Street Early Childhood Center for children and parents, and directed a national Head Start project as well as Bank Street's participation in the Federal Office of Education's National Follow Through Programs.
        Mrs. Gilkeson, whose husband and son predeceased her, is survived by five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      