
        Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Rockland County service organization for the developmentally disabled that she founded in 1969.
        Her family said the cause was cancer.
        A 1952 Barnard College graduate who taught a year at a private girls' school and worked another year as a police reporter and feature writer for The Bergen Evening Record before marrying and settling into a suburban routine, Mrs. Lukens, who was born in Philadelphia and grew up in northern New Jersey, was typical of a generation of women who put their families before careers.
        As a standard P.T.A. mom cum after-school chauffeur with the usual array of committee meetings and volunteer work, Mrs. Lukens, a labor organizer's daughter who was also active in the antinuclear and civil rights movements, did pretty much what any suburban mother of her era did. And if her refrigerator to-do list was a bit longer than most, she did, after all, have five children with varying needs to take care of.
        As the children came along, Mrs. Lukens simply dealt with their needs as a matter of routine, feeding them, keeping them clean, nursing them through childhood illnesses and sending them off to school and camp.
        It was a routine that varied only in the details. When her fourth son, David, turned out to be autistic, for example, and she discovered there were no camps in Rockland County for children with such developmental disabilities, Mrs. Lukens, who had previously helped start a nursery school for her three older sons, did the obvious thing: She started a camp for David.
        She called it Camp Venture, and if at first it was more venture than camp, when it comes to taking care of children, one thing tends to lead to another, and almost before Mrs. Lukens knew it, David had grown up and she had built Camp Venture into a sprawling multiservice organization with an $18 million, largely Medicaid-financed, annual budget that now operates 15 supervised group homes, 4 day service centers and  other programs that serve about 1,000 Rockland County adults and children with an array of developmental disorders, including autism, Down syndrome and cerebral palsy.
        To be sure, Mrs. Lukens, who told David's story in a 1989 novella, ''Song of David,'' had some help, including loving assistance from her husband, Dr. John H. Lukens, a clinical psychologist, from David's four siblings, including his little sister, and from other parents, some of whom moved to Rockland County so they could join Mrs. Lukens's enterprise and their children could benefit from Camp Venture.
        Not that it was easy. At a time when the mentally retarded and those with other developmental disabilities were routinely warehoused in indifferent state institutions like the notorious Letchworth Village, to win the required government financing for supervised group homes, Mrs. Lukens had to become a public advocate, buttonholing politicians and organizing campaigns for reform.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller was so impressed with her eloquent appeals that he asked her to become a speechwriter. In their turns, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo declared her New York State 1984 woman of the year and named her to his advisory council on mental retardation and developmental disabilities and Gov. George E. Pataki named her to the state Provider Council in 1996.
        By then, Mrs. Lukens had received so many honors and heard so much  praise it was a wonder she had any time for her nine grandchildren.
        Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
        David, now 36, has what his family describes as a happy life, living at a Camp Venture group home in New City, N.Y., and participating in activities at a Camp Venture day services center, all thanks to the efforts of a more or less ordinary woman who saw her duty as making sure her children got the care they needed.
      