
        Nancy Van Norman Baer, the curator of theater and dance at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Tuesday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. Ms. Baer was 55 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was cancer, said Pamela Forbes, director of media at the museums.
        Ms. Baer was known for exhibitions that vividly evoked dance history. Between 1978 and 1986, she was the curator of exhibitions at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, both in San Francisco, on Loie Fuller, Anna Pavlova and Bronislava Nijinska, which combined sculpture, works of art on paper and costumes. Her widely praised Nijinska exhibition was also seen at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in Manhattan.
        At the museums, which she joined in 1988, Ms. Baer was the curator of three major exhibitions: ''Paris Modern: The Swedish Ballet, 1920-1925'' in 1995-96, which traveled to the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio and the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan; ''Theater in Revolution: Russian Avant-Garde Stage Design, 1913-1935'' in 1991-92, also at the I.B.M. Gallery of Science and Art in Manhattan, the Armand Hammer Museum of Art and Cultural Center in Los Angeles and the McNay, and ''The Art of Enchantment: Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, 1909-1929'' in 1988-89.
        Ms. Baer had a special interest in the Russian avant-garde. She learned Russian and visited Russia many times. She was the curator of ''The Paris Seasons of the Ballets Russes'' at the Museum of Revolution in Moscow in 1994. She was also a consultant to the San Francisco Performing Arts Library and Museum and assisted Irina Nijinska, the daughter of the dancer and choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, in restaging Nijinska's ballets.
        At the time of her death, Ms. Baer was working with the dance historian Lynn Garafola on ''The Ballets Russes and Its World,'' a book to be published by Yale University Press. She was also preparing an exhibition on Vaslav Nijinsky.
        Ms. Baer is survived by her father, Alan Van Norman of San Diego, and her husband, Alan Baer of San Francisco.
      