
        Sarah Korein, who acquired some of the choicest real estate in Manhattan through bare-knuckle tactics cloaked by grandmotherly charm, died on Thursday at the North Division of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Elysabeth Kleinhans, a lawyer who manages the real estate business with other family members.
        Even in a city in which real estate is a popular obsession on a par with sports and soap operas, Mrs. Korein (KO-reen) was almost unknown outside professional circles -- exactly as she preferred it. Her name rarely appeared in public.
        And the face that she did present was more Dresden doll than Machiavellian negotiator. But buyers or sellers who assumed they were sitting across the table from sweetness and light did so at their peril.
        ''She was the toughest deal maker imaginable,'' said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a real estate brokerage and management concern. ''She squeezed out every last penny.''
        Mrs. Korein could even profit from property she never owned.
        In the early 1960's, for instance, she put a $250,000 deposit down on the Osborne Apartments, 205 West 57th Street. Advised against consummating the purchase because the building had no long-term investment value, she had to figure a way out of the deal.
        So she reached out to a reporter for The New York Times to say that she planned to demolish the Osborne and replace it with a new tower, her son, Dr. Julius Korein, recalled.
        When tenants besieged her office the next day, she comforted them. ''I don't want to take anyone's home away,'' she insisted, offering to sell them the contract. They paid her $500,000, not only taking her off the hook but also leaving her $250,000 richer.
        ''She certainly was one of the best negotiators I've ever met,'' said the developer William Zeckendorf Jr. ''Perhaps in the beginning, people didn't take her seriously enough. It didn't take them long to find out.''
        A common story in the real estate industry was that Mrs. Korein would keep different buyers in separate rooms and shuttle back and forth among the parties until she had extracted the terms she sought.
        ''Even into her old age, everyone thought she was a charming, lovely little woman,'' her daughter said. ''Let me tell you, that's not where she was.''
        Mrs. Korein's trophies speak for themselves.
        At her death, her properties -- either land alone or both land and building -- included Lever House, the modernist landmark at 390 Park Avenue, between 53d and 54th Streets; the old Equitable Building, 120 Broadway, between Cedar and Pine Streets, a tower so gargantuan that it inspired New York's first zoning law in 1916, and One Penn Plaza on Seventh Avenue, between 33d and 34th Streets, the fifth-largest office building in the city.
        She also owned the Delmonico Hotel, 502 Park Avenue, at 59th Street; the Swiss Center, 606 Fifth Avenue, at 49th Street, and two apartment towers on Central Park South, Nos. 220 and 240, overlooking Columbus Circle.
        Mrs. Korein bought and sold the Beresford Apartments, 211 Central Park West, between 81st and 82d Streets; the former Croyden Hotel, 12 East 86th Street, at Madison Avenue; the former Fifth Avenue Hotel, 24 Fifth Avenue, at Ninth Street, and the Schwab House apartments, a full-block complex between West End Avenue and Riverside Drive, 73d and 74th Streets.
        The family will not estimate the size and value of her portfolio, and not only because owners are customarily loath to disclose such things (tax assessors read the newspapers). Rather, Mrs. Korein held a variety of positions with any number of partners, making it difficult to apportion her share.
        Whatever the bottom line, there was no question that she was wealthy and tough -- a ''great realtor,'' in the words of Leona Helmsley, perhaps the only figure to whom she might immediately be likened.
        Ms. Tighe said Mrs. Korein was ''always an object of fascination, certainly to women coming up in the business but even to men, because there was no one else of her gender who accomplished what she did when she did.''
        But while both Mrs. Korein and Mrs. Helmsley were known for being as aggressive as necessary to survive in the male-dominated industry, there was a significant difference: Mrs. Korein created her portfolio from scratch.
        Sarah Rabinowitz was born in Germany and reared in Palestine, where she met Isidor Korein, a Hungarian engineer who arrived there after World War I. They married and immigrated to the United States in 1923.
        In 1931, for $6,000, the Koreins bought a six-story apartment house in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn -- not as an investment but so that family members would have a place to live rent free.
        Their first substantial investment, in 1941, was a large apartment building at 8701 Shore Road in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. To make the units more attractive, Mrs. Korein bought dozens of refrigerators and stored them in the building's emptied-out swimming pool.
        With the advent of World War II, refrigerator production virtually ended as industry retooled for military needs. So Mrs. Korein was able to sell the refrigerators at a high profit. And because of the shortage of apartments, she was able to rent up the Shore Road building even without the new refrigerators.
        ''One of her major secrets was somehow being in the right place at the right time with the right goods,'' Ms. Kleinhans said.
        After the war and against her husband's wishes, Mrs. Korein pursued investment in Manhattan, beginning with 715 Park Avenue, an apartment building on the southeast corner of 70th Street. In time, she advised Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York, on real estate, her children said.
        Mrs. Korein made use of the nonamortizing mortgage, under which she would pay slightly higher interest rates but nothing toward principal, thus freeing cash for further investments. By the time the loan itself came due, her properties typically had appreciated so much in value that Mrs. Korein could easily pay off the amount.
        ''All of her properties, without exception, did nothing but increase in value,'' said Andrew J. Singer, the chairman of the Singer & Bassuk Organization, who arranged financing for Mrs. Korein over many years.
        Mr. Korein died in 1976. But even when he was alive, Mrs. Korein was the ''driving force,'' said Lawrence Friedland, the family's lawyer.
        In the 1960's, he recalled, Mrs. Korein was about to sign a contract for the Beresford. At the last minute, her partners balked, fearing the risk of buying such a big building in what was then a rough-and-tumble neighborhood. She signed the contract anyway and more than doubled her money when she sold the property a few years later, Mr. Friedland said.
        Perhaps Mrs. Korein's biggest false step was a foray into development in 1972, when she built an apartment house, the Elysabeth, 35 East 38th Street, between Park and Madison. It was not a success and she did not build again.
        Besides Ms. Kleinhans and Dr. Korein, both of Manhattan, Mrs. Korein is survived by her sister, Esther Kessler of Naples, Fla.; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
        ''Into her 90's -- and I'm talking this year -- she would ask about cap rates and internal rates of return,'' Ms. Tighe said. ''She never lost her fascination with the business.''
        Correction:  November 12, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Nov. 4 about Sarah Korein, a New York real estate investor, referred incorrectly to her financing arrangements. Mrs. Korein was represented from 1977 to 1995 by Ackman Brothers & Singer, in which Lawrence D. Ackman and Andrew J. Singer were partners. Mr. Ackman arranged her financing before and after that time.
      