
        Barbara Thornton, a singer and musicologist who, with Benjamin Bagby, founded and directed Sequentia, the medieval music ensemble, died last Sunday at the Caritas hospice in Cologne, Germany. She was 48 and lived in Cologne.
        The cause was complications from a brain tumor, Jon Aaron, her manager, said.
        Ms. Thornton, whose soprano voice had a mezzolike hue and a texture that gave it a distinctive character, was a specialist in the music of the 12th-century abbess Hildegard von Bingen, and it was largely because of Ms. Thornton's performances and recordings with Sequentia that Hildegard and her works have lately become the focus of scholarly and popular interest.
        In 1982, when Sequentia toured with a production of Hildegard's ''Ordo Virtutum,'' an allegorical work in which the soul is confronted by both the Virtues and the Devil, Hildegard was virtually unknown outside a small circle of musicologists and students of medieval sacred works. Since then, the ensemble has recorded virtually all of Hildegard's extant music for the Deutsche Harmonia Mundi label, including two versions of ''Ordo Virtutum.'' When Sequentia offered its production again last summer, at the Lincoln Center Festival, it was a popular draw, and one of at least three versions of the work presented in New York City this year.
        Ms. Thornton was born in Summit, N.J., and graduated from Sarah Lawrence College. During a tour with the Sarah Lawrence European Chorus in the early 1970's, she decided to continue her studies in Europe, and coached in the operatic repertory with teachers in Amsterdam, Zurich and Cremona, Italy. Her growing interest in early music led her to Basel, Switzerland, where she enrolled at the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, from which she received an advanced diploma in 1977.
        She met Mr. Bagby, a singer and medieval harpist, in Basel in 1974, and started Sequentia with him in 1977. Like many early-music ensembles, Sequentia expanded and contracted as the music required, sometimes using solo voices and a single accompanying instrument, sometimes drawing on a men's choir, the Sons of Thunder; a women's choir, Vox Feminae, and medieval harps, strings, flutes and hurdy-gurdy.
        Besides its Hildegard series, Sequentia recorded three disks of sacred works from Spanish monasteries -- including the ''Codex las Huelgas'' and works composed for King Alfonso X (''El Sabio'') -- as well as several collections of courtly love songs and a compilation of sacred and secular works by Oswald von Wolkenstein, a knight, poet and composer who straddled the 14th and 15th centuries.
        She is survived by Mr. Bagby, her companion; her parents, Fletcher and Margaret Thornton of Exeter, N.H., and two sisters, Susan Frey Starbuck of Seattle and Anne Thornton Bridges of Woodstock, Vt.
      