
        Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death become nationally known only recently. She was 84.
        Miss Nijinsky identified artistically with her celebrated father, whose career was curtailed by mental illness. With her high cheekbones and muscular physique, she even resembled him. During the 1930's, she sometimes attended ballet classes dressed like the male students in white shirt and tights rather than in the tunics women then favored.
        Born in Vienna, she spent her childhood on tour with her parents and at a school in Switzerland. She received early dance training from her aunt, the choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, and at the Paris Opera Ballet School.
        Never long associated with any company, Miss Nijinsky attracted special attention in London in the 1930's. She impersonated her father in ''Le Spectre de la Rose,'' one of his greatest roles, in ''Streamline'' a sophisticated revue of 1934. She then went into the Ballet Rambert, where her parts included that of a nymph in a revival of her father's ''Apres-Midi d'un Faune.''
        In 1934 she also created her most important role for the Rambert troupe in Antony Tudor's astrological fantasy, ''The Planets.'' As the Mortal Born Under Neptune, she portrayed a mystical longing to unite  with the infinite. Although admitting that Miss Nijinsky was not a strong technician, the British critic Arnold Haskell called her ''a dancer who understands, whether instinctively or otherwise, how to use dancing to express her emotions.''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch. While living in Italy during World War II, Miss Nijinsky was briefly imprisoned by the Nazis, who accused her of spying. After the war, she worked as an interpreter and managed a boutique. Moving to San Francisco in 1954, she became a painter and poet and devoted herself to the expression of spiritual themes.
        She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      