
        Paula Kissinger, a refugee from Nazi Germany who held the Bible at the White House in 1973 when her first-born son, Henry, was sworn in as Secretary of State, the highest Cabinet post in her adopted land, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday in Manhattan. She was 97.
        From the time she arrived in America in 1940 with her husband and two young sons until the time she died, Mrs. Kissinger lived in the same apartment in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, where  she was well known and well regarded by the once large German-Jewish  emigre community there.
        It was Mrs. Kissinger -- the practical one in the family -- who decided that they had to leave Germany when Hitler came to power. Dr. Henry Kissinger told his biographer, Walter Isaacson, that his father was reluctant to recognize the growing evil around him. ''My father was lucky he had an earthy wife who made all the decisions,'' he said.  ''She looked after necessities.''
        She got in touch with a cousin in New York, and it was soon arranged.  ''It was my decision, and I did it because of the children,'' she told Mr. Isaacson. ''I knew there was not a life to be made for them if we stayed.''
        Mrs. Kissinger was born Paula Stern in 1901 into a prosperous middle-class family in Leutershausen. In 1922, she married Louis Kissinger.  He was 35; she was 21. They moved to Furth, where he was a teacher, and within the year their first son, Heinz Alfred, was born. He took the name Henry when the family came to the United States. The next year a second son, Walter Bernhard, arrived. Both sons, as well as six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren, survive Mrs. Kissinger.
        When she arrived in New York she quickly mastered the language and, to supplement the money earned by her husband and her sons, she became a cook and a caterer in Washington Heights. She refused to leave the neighborhood, even after her husband died 10 years ago and her elder son asked her to move in with him and his wife downtown.
        Several years ago, she fell in her kitchen and was unconscious for several hours. She was put on a life-support system, but when doctors wanted to remove it, her son Henry refused. When the doctors explained that she wouldn't be able to think or speak, he replied, ''You don't know my mother.'' After being unconscious for days, she awoke and asked him, ''What day is it?'' When he told her it was Tuesday, she said, ''Cancel my 10 o'clock dentist appointment.''
        She returned to Germany a few times, once when Dr. Kissinger was given an honorary degree. She was struck by the unreality of it all.  ''First you get chased away, and then you get treated like royalty,'' she told a reporter. Back home, when her son came to visit, the neighborhood was all excited and she admitted to being proud: ''They say, 'My son the doctor.' What should I say, my son the Aussenminister?' ''
      