
        Valerie Hobson, a British movie star who stayed loyal to her husband, John Profumo, after he figured in a sex scandal as a member of Britain's Conservative Government in 1963, died on Friday at a London hospital. She was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, the British news agency Press Association said.
        Miss Hobson, a British naval officer's daughter, starred in British films of the 1930's and 1940's. As the movie historian Ephraim Katz has put it, ''she developed into one of the prime leading ladies of the British screen, gentle, graceful and elegant, the personification of the well-bred upper-crust English lady.''
        She retired as an actress after starring as the governess, Anna, in the 1953 stage production of the musical ''The King and I'' in London. That role, The Daily Telegraph said on Saturday, was her greatest success, and ''as an actress, she knew, like Garbo, when to quit.''
        The British critic W. A. Darlington wrote in The New York Times that in the musical her singing voice ''was true and clear'' and ''besides the great good looks which had taken her on to movies, she proved to have a warm and charming personality.''
        Earlier she starred as Estella in David Lean's ''Great Expectations'' (1946), which the critic Leonard Maltin has called ''one of the greatest films ever made, a vivid adaptation of Dickens's tale of a mysterious benefactor making a poor young orphan a gentleman of means.''
        Another of her best-remembered film roles was her starring part, with Alec Guinness, in the much-applauded black comedy ''Kind Hearts and Coronets'' (1949).
        In 1954 she married Mr. Profumo, a Conservative member of Parliament. He stepped down in disgrace as Secretary of State for War in 1963 after it had become known that he was having an affair with a British call girl, Christine Keeler, who was also involved with a Soviet military attache.
        Later Mr. Profumo did much to redeem himself by throwing himself into unpaid charity work. Miss Hobson also did volunteer work, for a leprosy relief organization and for children with mental handicaps. In 1975 she and her husband went to Buckingham Palace, where he was honored for his good works by being made a Commander, Order of the British Empire.
        The 1963 scandal became the basis for the 1989 film ''Scandal'' -- which,  the critic Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote, ''so abridges and elides the real-life case that it isn't easy for a nonstudent to follow the chronology of events.''
        Born in Larne in Northern Ireland, Miss Hobson went on to attend the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. She began her performing career on the London stage, acted in some modest British films, then made some Hollywood movies for Universal -- largely forgettable, except for ''The Bride of Frankenstein,'' where she played the baron's wife -- and returned to Britain in the mid-1930's.
        Her 1939 marriage to Sir Anthony Havelock-Allan, a baronet who had produced several movies she was in, ended in divorce in 1952.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Mark Havelock-Allan and David Profumo.
      