
        Jean Dalrymple, who abandoned a nascent acting career to become a successful publicist, then an even more successful manager of concert artists and finally a dynamic producer of musicals and plays for City Center and other stages, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home, across the street from City Center. She was 96.
        Miss Dalrymple's stature in the New York theater world was enhanced by her uncanny ability to lure just the right actor for a particular role at a price that City Center, with its limited budget, could afford. Her skillful productions nourished and entertained audiences there from the 1940's through the 60's.
        Among the center's offerings during her tenure as director of its theater and light-opera companies were plays by Shakespeare and Shaw, Sartre and Tennessee Williams, with actors like Jose Ferrer, Charles Boyer, Franchot Tone, Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn, Charlton Heston, Helen Hayes and Tallulah Bankhead. She also revived musicals by Cole Porter, the Gershwins, Frank Loesser, Rodgers and Hart, and Rodgers and Hammerstein.
        The productions were quite polished. Indeed, after an opening of one Rodgers and Hammerstein revival, Miss Dalrymple received a floral tribute from the composers with a note that said, ''We wish last night had been the Broadway opening.''
        In her day, Miss Dalrymple was one of a handful of formidable female producers; the others included Cheryl Crawford and Irene Selznick. She was as tough as they were, a woman in perpetual motion, but she did not seem that way.
        ''Jean always had a kind of solid serenity about her,'' said Robert Whitehead, the producer. ''She had a great determination to get things done, but she was always very feminine, very pretty. She was an extraordinary person.''
        Franchot Tone, an actor whose work Miss Dalrymple always admired, thought of her as ''the tenderest little lady.'' But a writer from The Cleveland Plain Dealer described as her as ''as fragile as a Fragonard painting but hep and with a sense of timing like a Garand rifle.''
        In addition to luring actors, she was also able to persuade producers to give the City Center sets and costumes when their plays and musicals ended their runs. Thus, her revival of ''My Fair Lady'' featured the original costumes.
        Creating a 'Temple' For Performing Arts
        City Center, for which Miss Dalrymple worked so long and hard, was established on West 55th Street in 1943 by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia and City Council President Newbold Morris, who wanted it to be a ''temple for the performing arts,'' offering productions for a top price of $2.
        Miss Dalrymple was there at the very beginning. Her success with their dream was such that when the center turned 50 in 1993 and called itself ''a glorious home for dance, music, opera and dozens of extraordinary musicals and plays,'' there were many who thought the phrase an understatement of what Miss Dalrymple had accomplished.
        Initially serving as volunteer director of public relations and as a member of its board, Miss Dalrymple remained at the middle of City Center's publicity apparatus even after she started producing and directing. At the same time, she served as personal manager to performing artists like Leopold Stokowski, Mary Martin, Jose Iturbi, Andre Kostalanetz, Nathan Milstein and Lily Pons.
        Jean Dalrymple was born on Sept. 2, 1902, in Morristown, N.J., to George and Elizabeth Collins Dalrymple. There was no shortage of money in her family; her grandfather, an officer in the Civil War, had founded a coal and lumber business that sustained the family very well.
        When she was 9, she finished a short story, ''The Spinning Top,'' and sold it to a Newark newspaper for $1. Encouraged by this success, she wrote more stories for a Philadelphia paper, receiving $5 for each one. But even in those days, she thought of writing as secondary to her goal of becoming a stage director.
        After completing her secondary education, Miss Dalrymple moved to New York, studied secretarial skills at a business school and got a stenographer's job on Wall Street when she was only 16. She even made a respectable sum in the market before the crash of 1929. The crash propelled her out of Wall Street and into vaudeville. She created an act with her beau Dan Jarrett and worked with James Cagney and Cary Grant on the Keith-Orpheum circuit.
        During this period, she tried her hand at playwriting; ''Salt Water,'' written with Mr. Jarrett, was produced by John Golden. She was hired by Golden as an understudy, casting director, play doctor and press agent, and her skill in handling the press so impressed him that he encouraged her to work at it full time.
        It also impressed Ward Morehouse, the drama critic for The New York Sun, so much so that in 1932 he proposed marriage. It was not a successful union, but in the five years they were together, they collaborated on a screenplay, ''It Happened in New York,'' which was made into a movie by Universal Pictures.
        Miss Dalrymple was married in 1951 to Maj. Gen. Philip de Witt Ginder, who died in 1968. No immediate family members survive. The funeral will be held on Thursday at 1:30 P.M. at the West Point chapel.
        Miss Dalrymple was one of the founding members of the American Theater Wing, the theater service organization. In 1939 she was its first publicity volunteer, and during World War II, she trained speakers who sold war bonds during the time of the Stage Door Canteen.
        By 1940, Miss Dalrymple was working as an independent press agent, much sought after because of her contacts. Among the Broadway plays for which she handled the publicity were ''Mr. and Mrs. North'' (1941), ''One Touch of Venus'' (1943)  and ''Anna Lucasta'' (1944).
        In 1945, she turned to producing. Her first effort, a collaboration with Marc Connelly, was ''Hope for the Best,'' a comedy by William McCleery, who had been Sunday editor of the newspaper PM. She did not leave the publicity business but pursued more producing ventures, among them ''Brighten the Corner'' (1945) and ''Burlesque'' (1946).
        Meanwhile, she began to devote more of her energy to developing productions for the newly formed City Center, which was started in the old Mecca Temple that had been built years before by the Shriners. It had been taken over by the city for nonpayment of taxes and it stood idle, except for its occasional use as the site for Civil Service examinations.
        Early productions included Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town,'' mostly because it required no scenery and was inexpensive to produce, and ''Porgy and Bess,'' which the center snared as it was completing a national tour.
        Miss Dalrymple was especially proud of her production of ''Porgy.'' ''I had an overwhelming desire to restore it to its original form and present it exactly as as George Gershwin and DuBose Heyward had created it, as an opera for the Metropolitan,'' she once recalled.
        One Misstep, Angering Sartre
        In her 1975 memoir, ''From the Last Row,'' she recalled that Howard Taubman of The New York Times ''loved it'' but that Judith Crist of The New York Herald Tribune said she preferred the original Broadway version. ''I wrote her,'' Miss Dalrymple said, ''and told her she had a tin ear.'' She was pleased that this production of ''Porgy'' sold out and that ''Miss Crist never held my impulsive letter against me.''
        In 1948, Miss Dalrymple thought she had scored a coup when she succeeded in getting Jean-Paul Sartre's permission to produce his play ''Les Mains Sales'' in an English adaptation by Daniel Taradash called ''Red Gloves.'' She followed this up by inducing Charles Boyer to make it his first Broadway role.
        What began as a coup threatened to become a coup de grace; Sartre read Taradash's adaptation after he gave Miss Dalrymple the go-ahead and was filled with loathing for it. He loudly denounced it publicly as ''a vulgar, common melodrama with an anti-Communist bias.'' When the play opened, Brooks Atkinson echoed Sartre's denunciation and wrote in The New York Times that it was a production that ''looked and sounded bogus.'' It quickly closed.
        But she scored many triumphs in the years that followed. Word of her organizational abilities spread and in 1951 the State Department asked her to arrange for what the United States would offer at the Berlin Arts Festival that year. In 1958 the State Department called on her again, this time to arrange for the performances sent by the United States to the Brussels World's Fair, including those by Harry Belafonte, William Warfield, Jose Iturbi and the Juilliard String Quartet.
        In 1953, she persuaded Jose Ferrer to star in and direct four plays at the City Center during an eight-week season: ''Cyrano de Bergerac,'' ''The Shrike,'' ''Richard III'' and ''Charley's Aunt.'' To help City Center grapple with its tight budget, Mr. Ferrer and all the cast members in these productions worked for the Actors Equity minimum.
        Mr. Ferrer called the center ''this happy beehive of the arts,'' and donated $1,000 to the cause. The season was a critical and box-office success. ''They have made the theater seem like a fresh, exciting, varied form of public art,'' Atkinson wrote in The Times.
        In 1956 Miss Dalrymple persuaded Orson Welles to appear in ''King Lear'' (he performed in a wheelchair after breaking a leg in rehearsals) and Tallulah Bankhead to play Blanche Dubois in ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' Both productions earned critical praise.
        Among Miss Dalrymple's other warmly received revivals were ''The Beggar's Opera,'' ''Brigadoon'' (with Edward Villela as the villain), ''Pal Joey'' (with Bob Fosse in the title role), ''Guys and Dolls'' (with Walter Matthau as Nathan Detroit) and ''The Pajama Game.''
        When her revivals turned a profit, Miss Dalrymple used the money to subsidize City Center's other companies, the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera, both of which moved to Lincoln Center in 1964. Her revivals were doomed in the late 1960's, however, when the city began to experience a series of fiscal crises.
        Among Miss Dalrymple's other books were an autobiography, ''September Child'' (1963), ''Careers and Opportunities in the Theater'' (1969), ''Jean Dalrymple's Pinafore Farm Cookbook'' (1971) and ''The Folklore and Facts of Natural Nutrition'' (1973).
        As a producer, Miss Dalrymple tended to play down her adroit handling of the press, which is critical in the success of even the most expertly produced play. ''I never went in for theme parties or the crazy events that publicists stage today,'' she said in 1993. ''I simply advertised the facts of the production. At City Center, that was always enough.''
      