
        Lenore Cahn Zola, whose aid to a relative she did not know indirectly helped document the horrors of the Holocaust and who became an advocate for the elderly and sick, died on Nov. 1 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91.
        A longtime member of Manhattan Community Board No. 2, she is best known for the rescue of the Village Nursing Home, 607 Hudson Street, the only home for the aged in Greenwich Village.
        In 1975, state and city officials sought to close the 328-bed home because of overcrowding, poor maintenance and other problems. Mrs. Zola helped gather neighborhood petitions to stop the closing and started a $275,000 fund-raising drive to take over and improve the home. It is now a nonprofit center with 200 beds, a bigger staff and a renovated building. ''Her philosophy was an involved community is the best protection against abuse of the elderly,'' said Ann Wyatt, a friend.
        Mrs. Zola and her first husband, Edmond Cahn, were also instrumental in securing a scarce exit visa from Nazi Germany in 1937 for Albert G. Rosenberg, an 18-year-old second cousin.
        Mr. Rosenberg, now 81, recalled: ''My mother was desperate. The doors were closing for those of us who were Jewish. She knew only that some of her cousins had left Germany for York, Pa., and so she wrote to the Mayor of that town, who somehow found Lenore.'' The couple agreed to provide a home for Mr. Rosenberg.
        In 1945, while in Army intelligence, Captain Rosenberg led the preparation of a 140-page report based on hundreds of interviews of prisoners at Buchenwald, a Nazi concentration camp liberated by the Allies. Known as the Buchenwald Report, it is considered an important piece of contemporary documentation of the Holocaust. In 1997, it was published in paperback by Westview Press and its manuscript was donated to the Holocaust Museum.
        Mrs. Zola was born Lenore Lebach in Manhattan on April 26, 1907. After attending Barnard College for one year, she married Mr. Cahn, a lawyer and later a constitutional law professor at New York University, who died in 1964. In 1978, she married Albert Zola, a dentist, who died in 1997.
        She is survived by a son, Edgar S. Cahn of Washington, and a daughter, Mary Cahn Schwartz of Chevy Chase, Md., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      