
        Alice Hanson Cook, a Cornell University scholar, early feminist and longtime advocate of equal pay for women and support programs for working mothers, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Ithaca, N.Y., of complications from a stroke. She was 94.
        Professor Cook began work at Cornell in 1954 and was associated with the university for almost two decades, specializing in labor history in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations. She wrote extensively on issues dealing with women, unions, labor relations, sex discrimination and equal employment opportunities in the United States and abroad.
        ''She was not only interested, but concerned in every aspect of the working woman's life,'' said Jennie Farley, a Cornell professor of industrial and labor relations. ''Alice  made it clear that these issues were universal in their importance and that they affected every woman no matter where she lived and worked.''
        Her retirement in 1972 was marked with the establishment of Cook's Grove in a Cornell quadrangle, identified by a plaque that read ''Teacher, Feminist, First University Ombudsman.''
        Speaking at a 1993 showing of ''Never Done: The Working Life of Alice H. Cook,'' a documentary film on her career, Professor Cook described her mother and grandmother as turn-of-the-century suffragists who had brought her up to believe that ''girls deserved education as much as boys.'' At the same event, she recalled the opening of the Cornell Faculty Club to women -- an event in which she played a pivotal role -- and her appointment as the university's first ombudsman.
        The daughter of Flora and August Hanson, a peripatetic railroad accountant, Alice Hanson was born in Alexandria, Va., in 1903. She attended  Northwestern University, her mother's alma mater, where she was a co-founder of the student Liberal League to promote socialism, civil liberties and labor unions, and was involved in the Student League for Industrial Democracy.
        She recalled that she and 37 fellow students had once identified themselves as pacifists who would refuse to fight in another war. They were branded ''the 38'' by The Chicago Tribune, she said, and described as ''a regretted presence at Northwestern.''
        As she became increasingly active, she shared speakers' platforms with Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House in Chicago; worked in St. Louis with a social welfare agency, and taught at a cooperative farming community in Arkansas. After receiving her degree in 1924, she married Wesley Cook, a divinity student who later became involved in union activities. They were divorced in 1950.
        Professor Cook's career spanned five spheres: social work, labor organization, labor education, foreign service and the academy. In the late 1930's, she left her job with the Y.W.C.A. in Philadelphia to organize textile workers. Later, she was associated in community affairs and education with the Brotherhood of Locomotive Enginemen and Firemen, the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen, and the Marine and Shipbuilding Workers.
        She was the visiting expert on labor education with the Office of Military Government in postwar Germany in the late 1940's, and chief of the Adult Education Section of the United States High Commission in Germany from 1950 to 1952.
        She joined the extension division of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell in 1952 and two years later was invited by the dean to teach labor history.
        Her autobiography, ''A Lifetime in Labor,'' completed shortly before her death, will be published this spring by Feminist Press of New York.
        She is survived by two sons, Phillip Cook of Buffalo and Thomas Bernstein of Manhattan; two brothers, Frederick Hanson of Sun Lakes, Ariz., and Evanston, Ill., and Theodore Hanson of Honolulu; three grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      