
        Elisabeth A. Owens, who helped to shape the field of international tax law and in 1972 became the first woman ever granted tenure at Harvard Law School, died on Sunday at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Falmouth.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said her niece Charlotte Harris.
        Tenure did not come easily for Professor Owens. Former students and faculty colleagues alike say she  was denied it for years because of her sex. Speaking to a reporter for the Harvard Law Bulletin in 1988, another professor at the law school,  Milton Katz, described the granting of tenure for her as ''a delayed justice,'' and Professor Owens herself said at the time, ''It was a decision that I also felt was overdue.''
        Asked for comment yesterday, Michael Chmura, a spokesman for the law school, said Harvard did not comment on faculty appointments other than to announce them.
        Even after Professor Owens had gained tenure, said Ms. Harris, her niece, she was assigned, condescendingly, to teach women's' studies. After a year of that, she refused to teach the subject and returned to her main interest, international tax law.
        Elisabeth Ann Owens was born in Boston and graduated from Boston Girls Latin School and from Smith College, summa cum laude. She received her bachelor of laws degree from Yale Law School in 1951 and subsequently became a research assistant to the tax expert Stanley S. Surrey at Harvard Law School.
        After a year in the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury in Washington, she began teaching full time at Harvard. Asked once by a reporter how she had decided to concentrate on tax law, she said: ''I think at one point Professor Surrey asked me, 'What is creditable tax?' My answer turned into three books.''
        Professor Owens was the author of ''The Foreign Tax Credit'' (I.T.P., 1961), which Prof. Oliver Oldman of Harvard called ''one of the best tax books ever written.'' Professor Oldman said the beauty of the work was the way it organized ''the law into a structured, reasoned whole.''
        Professor Owens was also the author, with Gerald Ball, of the two-volume ''The Indirect Credit'' (I.T.P., 1975 and 1979).
        In midcareer, Professor Owens also developed an interest in natural resources law. She retired in 1981.
        She is survived by her sisters Margaret Harris, of Falmouth, and Mary Bemis, of Randolph, Mass.; her brothers, Cornelius Owens of West Roxbury, Mass., and Graham Owens of Yarmouth Port, and 15 nieces and nephews, including her nieces Mary Owens and Charlotte Harris, with both of whom she lived in Falmouth.
      