
        Edwige Feuillere, a much-loved French actress whose 60-year career took her from sensual screen beauty to grande dame of the Paris theater, died here on Nov. 13. She was 91 and lived in Paris. She was buried on Wednesday in a family tomb at Beaugency, near Orleans.
        Ms. Feuillere first gained renown in 1935 when, shockingly for the time, she briefly appeared naked in Abel Gance's film ''Lucrece Borgia.'' And it was as a femme fatale that she achieved her greatest stage triumph, playing opposite Jean-Louis Barrault in Paul Claudel's ''Partage de Midi'' in 1947. But she was also frequently acclaimed for her interpretation of classical roles.
        ''Edwige Feuillere was our Marlene Dietrich, our Irene Dunne and our Greta Garbo, all in one,'' Le Monde wrote after her death. She retired from the stage only six years ago after a final production in which she read from her best-known roles.
        ''Now people can only see me as a very old person who had a mythical life,'' she said in a recent interview with a French writer. ''Ah, if only you had seen her when she was.'' She continued: ''Well, I'd like people to remember me for my best moment. But it could be when I was 25 or 50 or 70 or in my very last show.''
        Her death, which prompted a wave of tributes from French political and cultural figures, came less than one week after that of Jean Marais, the handsome, swashbuckling French actor who played opposite Ms. Feuillere in Jean Cocteau's 1947 film ''L'Aigle a Deux Tetes.'' Cocteau had created the role for her, and she first created it onstage.
        Stunningly beautiful in her youth, gracefully elegant in old age, Ms. Feuillere was remembered as much for her powerful well-modulated voice as for her expressive eyes and magnetic presence. Yet for all her popularity, she showed little interest in a glamorous life style. Modest and humorous in private, she was also self-deprecating about her talent in her 1977 autobiography, ''Les Feux de la Memoire.''
        Ms. Feuillere was born Edwige Caroline Cunati on Oct. 29, 1907, in the town of Vesoul in eastern France. Her mother's family, originally from Alsace, had moved back to France after Germany occupied the region in the 1870 Franco-Prussian war. Her father was Italian and, because he was drafted by the Italian army in World War I, Edwige spent much of her childhood in Italy.
        After the war, the family moved to Dijon in France where she showed interest in the theater by acting in school plays. In 1928 she began attending the Paris Conservatory of Dramatic Arts, and two years later she married a fellow student, Pierre Feuillere, although the marriage soon floundered because of his drug problems.
        Ms. Feuillere's career -- she first used the stage name of Cora Lynn before taking her husband's name -- began slowly with small parts in several mediocre films, although she is remembered for her lead role in the film version of Marcel Pagnol's play ''Topaze.'' She also found work in the theater and was invited to join the Comedie Francaise, but she left after two years, complaining that she was being overlooked for major roles.
        In 1939, she was cast as Marguerite Gautier in Alexandre Dumas's play ''La Dame aux Camelias,'' and she at last won recognition as a serious stage actor. At the time, the play's director, Jacques Hebertot, predicted, ''You will carry this role throughout your life, a slave to the success it will bring you.'' And he was right: she appeared in frequent revivals -- in France and Britain -- for the next two decades.
        During Germany's occupation of France in World War II, Ms. Feuillere worked in the theater (she helped discover Gerard Philipe in Jean Giraudoux's ''Sodome et Gomorrhe'') and in films (notably in Jacques de Baroncelli's 1941 ''Duchesse de Langeais''). After the war, she appeared in 200 performances of ''L'Aigle a Deux Tetes'' before taking on another major role, which she would also perform again and again, as Yse in ''Partage de Midi.'' When she appeared in the role in London in 1968, the British theater critic Harold Hobson described her as the greatest actress he had ever seen.
        Although she played an old woman in Patrice Chereau's 1974 film ''La Chair de l'Orchide,'' she virtually abandoned the cinema after 1960.  But she remained a pillar of the French theater, occasionally appearing onstage with her old movie partner Jean Marais, seven years her junior. In 1965, she created the lead role in Giraudoux's ''Madwoman of Chaillot'' and returned to the play on several occasions.
        Ms. Feuillere had no immediate survivors.
        She first announced her retirement in 1984, but promptly changed her mind and appeared frequently onstage throughout the 1980's. Finally, on the eve of her 85th birthday, she did retire. ''I have died so many times onstage,'' she said recently. ''My own will arrive one day, probably sooner than I expect.''
        Correction:  December 3, 1998, Thursday  A picture caption on Nov. 23 with an obituary of the French actress Edwige Feuillere misstated the original nationality of the actor and director Erich von Stroheim, shown with her in an unidentified film. He was born in Austria, not Germany.
      