
        Luba Elianoff, a Latvian-born little old linen lady whose bearing was a bit too regal, whose spirit was a bit too fiery and whose embroideries were a bit too elegant to be called that to her face, died on Nov. 17 at her apartment on Riverside Drive. She was 96 and had much preferred to be called the Queen of Linens.
        A full 50 inches tall in her prime, Mrs. Elianoff, who had shrunk somewhat by the time she retired at 86, may not have had the stature of a queen, but during the more than four decades she spent designing and manufacturing delicately embroidered towels, sheets, pillowcases and the like, no one ever accused her of not charging queenly prices.
        Still, for a woman who catered to those who routinely paid several hundred dollars for a set of sheets, Mrs. Elianoff, who worked in a second-floor studio above what is now the Fairway fruit and vegetable market at Broadway and 75th Street, was remarkably democratic.
        It was she, after all, who claimed to have been the first to persuade the Swiss embroidery industry, which handled her production, to work in polyester rather than cotton, a high-maintenance material better suited to the dwindling number of households whose staffs included maids and laundresses.
        For all that, when it came to decorating sheets with borders of a range of intricate, imaginative designs, Mrs. Elianoff drew the line at substituting printed (shudder!) fabrics for stitching.
        The daughter of a prosperous Latvian businessman, Mrs. Elianoff, a Riga native whose maiden name was Levitt, learned to sew as as child, but her girlhood heart belonged to the theater. At 16, when the Russian empire was in the throes of collapse, she escaped military patrols by hiding in a hay cart and made her way to Moscow, where she studied drama under Stanislavsky and others.
        It was a sideline, as an English tutor, that changed her life twice over, leading her both to Martin Elianoff, a lawyer who became her husband, and to Armand Hammer, the American businessman who helped the couple immigrate to the Philippines in 1930.
        In Manila, she began managing and later bought a chic fashion boutique catering to the city's American and European elite. When Mrs. Elianoff began supplementing its line of fine imports with embroideries made of an indigenous pineapple fiber known as pina, her customers were captivated by her designs. The Philippine Government was so delighted with her efforts to bolster the local economy that it awarded her a series of medals.
        With war clouds looming (and many of her Western clients being evacuated) Mrs. Elianoff brought  her daughter, Anna Lou, to the United States in March 1941.
        After a brief reunion when the war was over, she and her husband separated but never divorced. He died in 1982.
        After working in a series of Manhattan linen shops, Mrs. Elianoff soon struck out on her own, using a sewing machine in her Riverside Drive apartment to embroider satin lingerie and hosiery cases for sale in local stores.
        It was not until full domestic textile production resumed in 1946 that Mrs. Elianoff expanded into sheets, towels, pillowcases and shower curtains, typically buying stock sheets at wholesale prices, replacing the standard border with lace and other elaborate embroidery and reselling them to stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Lord & Taylor at what seemed to some exorbitant prices.
        As one store buyer once told her:  ''That's not a price. It's a telephone number.''
        Still, Mrs. Elianoff found such an enthusiastic market for her Luba Elianoff line of luxury linens that she soon had to move her business to her Broadway workroom, where a staff handled the sewing.
        In time, demand for her elegant work grew so strong that about 200 stores carried her line, and she contracted out the manufacturing of borders to Swiss factories.
        Partly because Mrs. Elianoff was such a perfectionist that she did most of her design work in Switzerland, where she worked closely with production specialists, and partly because her local production staff used a special flat seam that made the attached borders seem like a natural extension of the mass-produced sheet, she was widely recognized as one of the finest designers of decorative linens.
        Always open to change, when Wamsutta began producing sheets in a variety of colors, Mrs. Elianoff responded enthusiastically, her once dainty designs blossoming into big, bold flowers and other colorful designs.
        As an American citizen, Mrs. Elianoff began to see herself as more than the Queen of Linens. Recalling that as a teen-ager she had made a flag for a Zionist parade in Riga, she came to regard herself as the Betsy Ross of Zionism.
        She is survived by her daughter, Anna Lou Aldrich of Manhattan, five granddaughters and two great-grandsons.
      