
        Nina Youshkevitch, a Russian-born American ballerina who was a leading dancer in Bronislava Nijinska's ballets and a longtime ballet teacher in New York, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        She had been undergoing treatment for cancer, said her son, Robert J. Johnson.
        Born in Odessa, Ukraine, Ms. Youshkevitch was the daughter of the playwright and novelist Semyon Youshkevitch, who was well known in Russian emigre circles after the Russian Revolution.
        After leaving Russia in 1921 he settled with his family in Paris, where Ms. Youshkevitch studied ballet with Olga Preobrajenska and Lubov Egorova, former ballerinas with the Imperial Ballet in St. Petersburg, and with Leo Staats, chief balletmaster at the Paris Opera Ballet.
        Like Nijinska, Staats was a pioneer in choreographing plotless neo-classical ballets.
        Ms. Youshkevitch also graduated from the Paris Conservatory with a first prize for piano. Her lifelong association with Nijinska, sister of Vaslav Nijinsky and a leading experimental choreographer, began when Ms. Youshkevitch, then 10 years old, joined the corps de ballet of the Opera Russe de Paris. The troupe was one of several companies directed by Nijinska with which Ms. Youshkevitch danced over the years.
        In 1934, when Nijinska staged her ballets for the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, then directed by Col. W. de Basil, she cast the 14-year-old Nina as the mysterious Girl in Blue in her celebrated ballet, ''Les Biches.'' The same year Ms. Youshkevitch performed with Nijinska's Theatre de la Danse in Paris, dancing in ''Les Biches,'' ''Le Baiser de la Fee'' and ''Bolero.''
        After a season with the Monte Carlo Opera Ballet, Ms. Youshkevitch rejoined the de Basil troupe for its 1936 Australian tour, when she portrayed the Princess in another Nijinska ballet, ''Les Cents Baisers.''
        Although she also danced the ballerina roles in the company's staging of the 19th-century classics and in works by Michel Fokine, Nijinsky and Leonide Massine, she considered Nijinska her mentor and joined the newly formed Polish Ballet when Nijinska became its director in 1937.
        The company toured Europe and was awarded the grand prize at the International Exhibition, the 1937 Paris World's Fair. There, Ms. Youshkevitch created one of the two soloists' roles in ''Chopin Concerto,'' considered Nijinska's major neoclassical work.
        When ''Chopin Concerto'' was performed by the Polish Ballet at the 1939 World's Fair New York, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote that Ms. Youshkevitch, her partner Zbigniew Kilinski and the other soloist, Olga Slawska, ''filled the principal roles with authority.''
        Ms. Youshkevitch recreated her role in ''Chopin Concerto'' at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., in 1942, shortly after she settled in the United States. She performed with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and toured with a company directed by Felix Sadowski.
        In 1945 she portrayed Princess Aurora in the first full-length ''Sleeping Beauty'' staged by a company on the West Coast. The production was sponsored by the San Francisco Russian Opera and Ballet Association.
        Ms. Youshkevitch, who began teaching at Nijinska's ballet studio in Hollywood in 1947, later choreographed for television and theater productions and headed her own small troupe. She opened her school, Nina Youshkevitch Ballet Workshop, on Manhattan's West Side in 1977. Among her pupils was Jennie Somogyi, now with the New York City Ballet.
        In 1995 she revived Nijinska's ''Bolero'' for the Oakland Ballet in California. The company performed the second movement of her ''Chopin Concerto'' last year and had been planning to produce a complete staging next June.
        Ms. Youshkevitch is survived by her son, the dance critic for The Newark Star-Ledger.
      