
        Vassar Miller, whose lifelong struggle with cerebral palsy made the simplest tasks arduous yet who wrote 10 volumes of searing and highly regarded poetry, died on Oct. 31 at Houston Methodist Hospital. She was 74.
        Ms. Miller's work often explored religious themes, although she also wrote about her own pain and sense of isolation, and there were occasional flashes of acid humor. Poems collected in ''Wage War on Silence'' made her a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 1961. She also was twice named the poet laureate of Texas.
        Many Texas writers and critics, most notably Larry McMurtry, lamented the lack of attention paid to her work, which had never been considered particularly fashionable until late in her career. ''That she is to this day little known, read or praised in Texas is the most damning comment possible on our literary culture,'' he wrote in a 1981 essay in The Texas Observer.
        Shortly afterward, the Texas Legislature named Ms. Miller the state's poet laureate in 1982, and again in 1988. Last year she was named to the Texas Women's Hall of Fame by the Governor's Commission for Women.
        ''If I Had Wheels or Love: Collected Poems of Vassar Miller,'' was published in 1990, drawing on her previous 10 volumes, including her first book of poems, ''Adam's Footprint,'' published in 1956, ''Onions and Roses'' (1968), ''If I Could Sleep Deeply Enough'' (1974) and ''Struggling to Swim on Concrete'' (1984).
        The poem ''Change'' from the ''Onions and Roses'' collection is a favorite of her admirers:
        I can remember the sun as a great golden eagle spreading its wings to my will.
        Now it moves slowly, a buzzard drifting across the sky, over the carrion earth,
        or swoops, a hawk, to seize the heart of a newborn puppy dropped from his pain-crazy mother.
        Now I give thanks if its claws, absent-minded, release me into some weed patch of sleep.
        ''Vassar Miller's poetry is direct, clear and tautly composed, with depths that are immediately accessible,'' a Houston Chronicle reviewer wrote in 1991. ''Her subjects are the same ones that keep most people searching beyond and beneath the surfaces of their daily lives; love, life, emotions and the unfilled longings of the disabled.''
        Ms. Miller was born in Houston's museum district. She lived in the same house for most of her life, until increasing infirmity and poverty caused guardians to move her into a nearby nursing home.
        She was born with cerebral palsy and always had great difficulty walking and talking. (Late in life she also lost the use of her hands, and she told an interviewer that her dream was to obtain a voice-activated computer so she could continue writing.)
        Her stepmother encouraged her to learn to read and write, and urged her to attend public school, and her father led her to creative writing by teaching her to type. Ms. Miller eventually received degrees from the University of Houston and taught creative writing at the University of St. Thomas, near her home.
        She was a familiar figure on the streets of the museum district, going from home to church to classes in her motorized cart. ''Sometimes it would tip over and she would laugh,'' Helen Havens, a rector at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, which Ms. Miller attended for many years, told The Houston Chronicle in 1995. ''She had this raucous laughter. When she'd fall down walking, she'd say, 'Don't help me. I can do it myself.' ''
        Ms. Miller is survived by two sisters, Joy Morton and Margaret Schomer, both of Houston.
        In 1995, when her trust fund had been depleted, friends in Houston held three fund-raisers for her. But guardians said that she required full-time care and there was insufficient money to care for her at home, so she stayed at a nursing home.
        She told an interviewer around that time that she felt her poetry would be best remembered for its metaphors, and she listed Bach oratorios and chocolate ice cream among her joys in life.
        Asked to describe the meaning of her life, Ms. Miller said: ''To write. And to serve God.''
      