
        Alice Marie Miel, an educator who was among the earliest to advance the notion that curriculum in the nation's classrooms should have a role in preparing children for the society they will enter as adults, died on Jan. 31 at the North Florida Regional Medical Center in Gainesville. She was 91.
        Dr. Miel, a former resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, moved to Gainesville after retiring from Teachers College at Columbia University in 1971.
        As a professor of education and an author who specialized in curriculum development, Dr. Miel (pronounced mile) taught and left her imprint on the subject throughout the country and around the world.
        She taught and wrote that a good teacher was a student with the world as the classroom. She set forth that approach in more than 10 books and other writings, beginning with the 1946 classic, ''Changing the Curriculum: A Social Process'' (Appleton). It counseled ''group solidarity and heterogeneity'' in curriculum development or, as she put it, ''diversity within unity.''
        She believed that teachers must inspire their students to creativity and awareness of society at large even as they teach the basics. Her concern was that too many American children were growing up without a clue to their country's social and racial diversity. It was a conclusion that most of her peers had yet to reach.
        She promoted the concept that education should be a vehicle toward a world community and intercultural understanding, beginning at home. In the book ''More Than Social Studies'' (Prentice-Hall, 1957) she coined the term ''social educator,'' whose classroom becomes ''a particular setting in which children can experience democratic living.''
        She had particular trouble with the way children were being reared in the white suburbs of the 1960's, which she wrote about in a four-year study published in 1967, ''The Shortchanged Children of Suburbia.'' She concluded that these children were  being deprived of the ''rich diversity of American life,'' never knowing an African-American or poor youngster their own age.
        Born on Feb. 21, 1906, in Six Lakes, Mich., she graduated in 1928 from the University of Michigan, where she earned a master's three years later. She received her doctorate in education at Teachers College in 1944.
        Her career started in Ann Arbor, Mich. She taught elementary and secondary school and became a principal. Before she arrived at Teachers College, she was the curriculum coordinator for the public schools of Mount Pleasant, Mich.
        In 1945, she was appointed a professor at Teachers College and staff researcher at the Horace Mann-Lincoln Institute of School Experimentation. In 1960, she took charge of the college's department of curriculum and teaching, which deals with education programs from the nursery to the college level.
        Four years before she took emeritus status, Teachers College established Project Milestone for a ''re-look, revitalization and a recommitment to the central themes'' of Dr. Miel's thinking.
        Dr. Miel is survived by two brothers, Homer Miel of Stanton, Mich., and Lucas S. Miel of Destin, Mich.
      