
        Rumer Godden, the prolific British author of ''Black Narcissus'' and  ''The River,'' and a writer of children's books that are enjoyed throughout the world, died on Sunday at her home in Dumfriesshire, Scotland. She was 90.
        In a career that began in 1935, Ms. Godden published some 70 novels, children's books, memoirs, biographies and collections of poetry and  stories, many set in India, where she spent her childhood and had her first success as a writer. She also had the experience, rare for most authors, of seeing two of her most widely admired novels, ''Black Narcissus'' and ''The River,'' turned into films that became classics.
        Ms. Godden's third novel, ''Black Narcissus'' (1939), first brought her critical attention and commercial success. It told the story of nuns in  the order of the Servants of Mary who try to overcome psychological and physical challenges to establish a hospital and school on a remote, windswept Himalaya mountain. ''Black Narcissus'' was also the first of Ms. Godden's novels to be brought to the screen, in a memorable 1946 film by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger that starred Deborah Kerr, David Farrar, Kathleen Byron, Sabu, Jean Simmons and Flora Robson.
        Five years later Jean Renoir, the  French director, made ''The River,'' recognized as one of the great color films, an adaptation of Ms. Godden's novel about English children growing up in Bengal. Ms. Godden adapted her novel with Renoir and said that she learned invaluable lessons from him.
        ''The River'' and ''Black Narcissus'' bore many of the trademarks of Ms. Godden's work. She was frequently praised for her rich settings and sensitive psychological portraits of children and headstrong, independent women. She was preoccupied with the loss of innocence, the moral problems of childhood and the nature of time. The lyricism and evocative power she often brought to her books sometimes disguised a toughness that addressed dark themes like poverty, jealousy, violence, sexual vulnerability and prejudice.
        ''Ms. Godden has a magical skill in conjuring up with a few suggestive details a veritable panorama of Indian life,'' Orville Prescott once observed in The New York Times. ''And she has a wonderful way with fictional children, tender and true and never sentimental.''
        In writing about Ms. Godden's  book ''Cromartie v. the God Shiva: Acting Through the Government of India,'' published last year, Bill Vourvoulias wrote in Newsday, ''One of the delights of reading a Rumer Godden novel is the magnetic pull of the exotic settings, affecting readers and characters alike.''
        An Autobiography Written at Age 7
        Margaret Rumer Godden was born on Dec. 10, 1907, in Sussex, England, the second of four daughters of Arthur Leigh and Katherine Hingley Godden. The family moved to India when she was less than a year old. Her father was a steamship agent and her childhood was spent in remote river towns throughout the British-ruled subcontinent. Until she was 12, Ms. Godden was largely educated by her family in a home that she later described as ''English streaked with Indian, or Indian streaked with English.''
        Ms. Godden's precocity was evident during her early days in Bengal, where she wrote a fictional autobiography at age 7, vying with her sister Jon -- who also became a writer -- for the family literary laurels. As she later recalled, ''Part of the bliss of our childhood was that, being most of the year without the normal preoccupations of most girls of our ages, there was all the time in the world to think, avenues of time.''
        These years left an indelible, earthy impression of India, quite unlike Kipling's land of the Raj. She evoked this in 1966 in the memoir ''Two Under the Indian Sun,'' which she wrote with Jon: ''The feel of the sunbaked Indian dust between sandals and bare toes; that and the smell. It was the honey smell of the fuzz-buzz flowers of thorn trees in  the sun, and the smell of open drains and urine, of coconut oil on shining black human hair, of mustard cooking oil and the blue smoke from cow dung used as fuel; it was a smell redolent of the sun, more alive and vivid than anything in the West.''
        After their untrammeled Indian childhood, Ms. Godden and her sisters were sent to Britain in 1920 to complete their education. The change was shocking and Ms. Godden's time in Britain unhappy and rebellious, she wrote in her memoir ''A Time to Dance, No Time to Weep'' (1988). She bounced among  five schools before finally settling at  Moira House in Eastbourne, where her writing was encouraged. Later she attended ballet school despite a childhood spinal injury and was hooked on dance.
        A Love of Dance And of Children
        Ms. Godden returned to India in 1925 and opened a dancing school for children in Calcutta three years later, one of the first of its kind in that city. Overcoming social opprobrium, she operated the school for eight years. She considered a career as a choreographer, but in 1934 she married Laurence Sinclair Foster, a charming stockbroker and gambler  whom she later described as a philistine ''who thought Omar Khayyam was a curry.'' Their first child died shortly after birth, at the same time that Ms. Godden's first novel, ''Chinese Puzzle'' (1935), was accepted for publication. Although the couple subsequently had two daughters, their marriage ended in 1941 after Foster joined the army, leaving Ms. Godden with the children and huge gambling debts.
        She moved with her children from Calcutta into the mountains of Kashmir, living in an isolated house set amid almond and cherry orchards. She supported her family through writing, teaching the local children, watching over the children of women doing war work in Calcutta, and selling herbal teas. She even survived a crazed cook's attempt to poison her before moving permanently to England in 1945.
        Ms. Godden chronicled this time in ''Rungli-Rungliot'' (1943) and ''Bengal Journey'' (1945) and in other novels that addressed the transition from childhood to adolescence against the backdrop of life in colonial India. ''Kingfishers Catch Fire,'' a 1953 novel, concerned a widow and her two children living in Kashmir among people so poor that even a nail is worth stealing. The vicissitudes of time on family history was the theme of several of her novels set in Britain.
        In London, in 1949, she married James Haynes-Dixon, a civil servant. Their marriage ushered in a long period of happiness, during which she continued to write, living  in London's Highgate section and in Henry James's Lamb House in Rye. Mr. Haynes-Dixon died in 1975. Ms. Godden is survived by two daughters, Paula Kenilworth and Jane Murray Flutter; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
        Acclaimed Novels That Became Films
        Ms. Godden's novel ''The Greengage Summer,'' a critically acclaimed story about the sexual awakening of a teen-age girl in a pre-World War II French village, appeared in 1958; a film based on it called ''Loss of Innocence,'' starring Kenneth More, Danielle Darrieux and Susannah York, was released in 1961. ''The Battle of the Villa Fiorita'' (1963), a novel set in Italy about an adulterous affair seen through the eyes of two children who refuse to allow their mother to leave them and establish a new life, was also made into a film. So was ''In This House of Brede'' (1969), about a sophisticated London businesswoman who becomes a Benedictine nun.
        To do research on ''In This House of Brede,'' Ms. Godden lived for three years near Stanbrook Abbey. Her experience with the nuns there contributed to her decision to convert to Roman Catholicism in 1968. In many of her stories and novels, Ms. Godden would write about the rewards and perils of the contemplative life.
        Among her other work was ''Mooltiki: Stories and Poems from India'' (1957); ''A House with Four Rooms'' (1989), which takes up where ''A Time to Dance'' ended, and ''The Peacock Spring'' (1975), a novel about a British father and daughter in India who fall in love with Asians.
        ''The Doll's House,'' the first and perhaps best known of her nearly two dozen children's books, appeared in 1947. The book told of a family of Dutch dolls owned by two girls in London. Like children, the dolls cannot act independently, but they can feel and wish for rooms of their own and comfortable feather beds. It was followed by many stories that interwove the lives of humans and dolls.
        Ms. Godden did not patronize her younger readers and she had decided ideas about how to write for them. ''There are several things children  will not put up with in a book,'' she once observed. ''You have to have a proper beginning and end; you cannot have flashbacks. Then, you can't have a lot of description. And you must be very careful with words. They have to fit the case exactly and be chosen with extreme care.''
        Ms. Godden's interest in children's literature also led her to write a biography of Hans Christian Andersen, compile a children's edition of Emily Dickinson's poems and translate two collections of verse by the French poet Carmen Bernos de Gasztold. She was given many prizes for her children's books and was awarded an Order of the British Empire in 1993.
        Two years after her husband's death Ms. Godden moved to Scotland to live with her daughter Jane. She continued her routine of writing in the mornings and tending to her Pekingese dogs. She continued to write  widely translated children's books like ''The Little Chair'' (1996) and adult romances like ''Pippa Passes'' (1994), the story of a novice ballerina who falls in love with a gondolier in Venice.
        She wrote into her final years and  never forgot India, returning to it in novels like ''Coromandel Sea Change'' (1991). ''To me and my kind,'' she once wrote, ''life itself is a story and we have to tell it in stories -- that's the way it falls. I have told the truth, yet not the whole truth, because that would be impossible.''
      