
        Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59, lived in Springfield, N.J., and also had an apartment in Chelsea in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack during hip surgery last Friday, and she also had cancer, said Paul Racioppi, Greenwich House's chief development officer. She went to work as usual the day before the surgery.
        Ms. Gulkin, a former specialist in programs for drug abusers, became Greenwich House's executive director in 1976. Her title was changed to president and chief executive in 1991.
        The multifaceted organization has its headquarters at 27 Barrow Street, employs 250 people and also carries on its programs at seven other sites in and near Greenwich Village. In her 22 years as its senior salaried executive, its annual operating budget grew to $13.5 million from $1 million or less, Mr. Racioppi said.
        In the years since 1986, Ms. Gulkin set into motion new Greenwich House programs for recovering alcoholics, other substance abusers and people with H.I.V. or AIDS, as well as for providing music and fine-arts classes in public elementary schools, for treating abused children and preventing child abuse and for serving hot meals for elderly Greenwich Villagers to eat together.
        She joined Greenwich House's staff as a supervisor of its programs for drug abusers in 1968 and was made director of its substance abuse clinics in 1972.
        Over the years, she was also active in other Manhattan social-service organizations. At her death, she was chairwoman of Caring Community, which administers programs for the elderly, mainly in Greenwich Village, and the West Side Association of Community Centers. She was also a co-founder and a former member of the board of what is now called Urban Pathways.
        She was inducted into Greenwich Village's Hall of Fame and received the United Way's Big Apple Award.
        A native of Newark, she received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and later studied social work at Columbia.
        She is survived by her husband, Sam Gulkin; a brother, Dr. Martin Kurman of Manhattan, and a sister, Bernice Winarsky of Springfield.
      