
        Bobo Lewis, a screen and stage actress who performed with the Circle Repertory Company for 25 years, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said her cousin, Susan Lera of Miami.
        In a 1987 interview in The New York Times, Ms. Lewis, who was born in Miami, joked that as a newborn in the delivery room she had asked, ''Which way is New York?'' She moved to New York as a teen-ager and changed her given name, Barbara, because Actor's Equity had another actress by that name.
        She took acting classes and eventually, in 1978, won a Drama Desk Award for her performance as the teacher in the original Broadway production of ''Working,'' which was adapted from Studs Terkel's book. Among her other Broadway credits were ''42d Street,'' ''Twigs,'' a revival of ''The Women,'' ''Lorelei,'' ''On the 20th Century'' and ''The Musical Comedy Murders of 1940'' in a role written for her by John Bishop. She toured nationally in Robert Patrick's ''Kennedy's Children,'' Neil Simon's ''God's Favorite'' and with Ben Bagley's revue, ''The Decline and Fall of the Entire World as Seen Through the Eyes of Cole Porter.''
        As a member of Circle Repertory Company, she appeared in E. E. Cummings's ''Him'' with Lanford Wilson in the title role. Her favorite roles were in Milan Stitt's ''Runner Stumbles,'' opposite William Hurt, and Jim Leonard's ''Diviners,'' which toured Asia.
        Last year she was nominated for a Joseph Jefferson Award for her performance as Stella in ''Light Up the Sky'' at Chicago's Goodman Theater. She played a variety of Shakespearean roles at resident theaters across the country, including the Rhode Island Shakespeare Festival, the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival and the Seattle Repertory.
        Her film credits include ''It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World''; ''Le Sauvage'' with Catherine Denueve and Yves Montand; ''The Paper,'' ''The Wild Party,'' ''Running on Empty,'' and most recently, ''One True Thing.'' She was a frequent guest on the television series ''That Girl'' and ''Bewitched,'' in which she played Agnes Moorehead's sister. Young viewers knew her as Midge Smoot on the PBS children's television show, ''Shining Time Station.''
      