
        Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago. She was 83 and lived in Jackson, Miss., on a street named for her.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Born Margaret Abigail Walker in 1915 in Birmingham, Ala., to a minister who was educated at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., she followed in her father's footsteps. A precocious child, Margaret learned to read while still a toddler and began writing poetry at 15 when she entered the university. She received a Ph.D. from the University of Iowa.
        As a member of the W.P.A. writing program, Dr. Alexander considered herself part of the Chicago Renaissance, though she claimed to have been cultivated by the writers of the Harlem Renaissance a decade earlier, most notably her mentor, the poet Langston Hughes.
        In 1942, she became the first black writer to win the Yale Series of Younger Poets competition, edited by Stephen Vincent Benet, for her poem ''For My People'' from a compilation by the same name.
        In it, she wrote: ''Let a new earth rise. Let another world be born. Let a bloody peace be written in the sky. Let a second generation full of courage issue forth; let a people loving freedom come to growth.''
        The poem, often quoted to describe the struggles of African-Americans, became a sort of anthem for the Civil Rights movement.
        Dr. Alexander later became a professor at Jackson State University, where she founded the Institute for the Study of the History, Life and Culture of Black People in 1968. She served as its director for 11 years, and the center was later renamed in her honor.
        In 1966 she published ''Jubilee,'' which told the life story of the daughter of a slave and a white plantation owner. The best-selling novel, The New York Times Book Review wrote, ''chronicled the triumph of a free spirit over many kinds of bondage.''
        The novel was at the center of a heated dispute in 1977, when Dr. Alexander sued the author Alex Haley, alleging that his book ''Roots'' infringed on her copyright for ''Jubilee.'' The case was eventually thrown out of court.
        ''I don't know anybody who has captured the heart and soul of black people any more than she did,'' Alferdteen Harrison, who became the director of the institute when Dr. Alexander stepped down, said. ''She was our model, our mentor. She had shown the way. That was the mark of greatness.''
        In addition to her daughter Marion, Dr. Alexander, who was a widow, is survived by another daughter, Margaret Williams, and two sons, Firnist Alexander and Sigismund Alexander, all of Jackson, and nine grandchildren.
      