
        Virginia Graham, who went from writing radio soap operas in the 1940's to becoming one of the most successful and enduring of the early television talk show hosts, died on Tuesday in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit of New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        Starting in the 1950's when she succeeded Margaret Truman as hostess of NBC Radio's ''Weekday'' series, in which she was teamed with Mike Wallace, she quickly became known for her spontaneity, irreverence and her ability to get good interviews from those who appeared on her shows.
        ''From the first second I went on the air, I have been easy to communicate with,'' she said in 1965. For two decades, she presided over television talk shows including ''Food for Thought'' from 1956 to 1961; ''Girl Talk'' (1963-69); and ''The Virginia Graham Show''(1970-72).
        ''Girl Talk'' was enormously successful. In its heyday it drew an average audience of 2 million who tuned in five days a week to watch Miss Graham interview the most celebrated women of the day, including Olivia de Havilland, Pearl S. Buck, Gloria Swanson, Louise Rainer, Ilka Chase, Cornelia Otis Skinner, Marian Javits, Hermione Gingold, Barbara Walters, Phyllis Diller and Joan Rivers.
        In the early days of television, she was also seen frequently on Jack Paar's ''Tonight'' show, and occasionally served as a substitute host on 'Strike It Rich'' and ''The Big Payoff.'' She also appeared on the ''Roseanne,'' ''Rosie O'Donnell'' and ''Tom Snyder'' shows.
        She was also active in charity work, raising many millions for the American Cancer Society (she survived cervical cancer in the 1950's and spoke of it widely and often) as well as the foundations set up to research cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis and kidney disease.
        Miss Graham's husband, Harry Guttenberg, who ran a well-known theatrical costume company, died of kidney disease in 1980. She wrote about her experience in ''Life After Harry: My Adventures in Widowhood,'' which became a best seller.
        Miss Graham was born on July 4, 1912, in Chicago, the daughter of David S. Komiss, a women's clothier, and the former Bessie J. Feiges.
        She attended the University of Chicago, where she majored in anthropology and received a Phi Beta Kappa key. She then studied journalism at Northwestern University, and received a master's degree.
        In the years that followed, she worked as a photographer's model and in 1934 did some fashion reporting for radio station WBBM in Chicago. In the 1930's she wrote scripts for commercials used on WMCA, a New York radio station.
        After World War II, she contributed scripts for such radio soaps as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''Our Gal Sunday'' and ''Backstage Wife.''
        In addition to her work in television, she appeared on the stage, including a Chicago production of Neil Simon's ''Barefoot in the Park.''
        She wrote several books, the last of which, ''I Love Antiques but I Don't Want to Be One,'' is scheduled to be published next fall by Crown.
        Miss Graham is survived by a daughter, Lynn Bohrer, and a granddaughter, Jan, both of New York; and a grandson, Stephen, of Singapore.
      