
        Once upon a time there was a little girl named Mary Lou. Her family's name was Hall, and she was born in Greenville, S.C., on the very first day of 1895. That was a very long time ago. A man named Grover Cleveland was President of the United States, and there were only 44 states. They did not have radio or television in those days, but Mary Lou was never bored. She loved to listen to her mother and grandmother tell stories about the old days.
        Her grandmother, who had been a slave, had worked in the kitchen of a great big house. She told Mary Lou what it was like to cook a really wonderful meal for the master's family and then not be allowed to eat any of it.
        When she was not listening to her mother and grandmother tell stories about the old days, Mary Lou would play with her sister and her friends. Her father was a carpenter, and Mary Lou never forgot what nice things he made for the house, even a swing for the back yard. Come to think of it, Mary Lou didn't forget anything.
        Years later, she could recall how her dog, Bruno, would pick up a pail with his mouth and carry it along in his teeth on family errands. She remembered feeding the pigs and the chickens and the other animals the family kept behind the house. And she had such an eye and memory for detail she could tell you the color (usually red) of the dress she was wearing whenever anything interesting happened to her, which was all the time.
        Her father was a very nice man, but he gave Mary Lou a whipping one time. What happened was that Mary Lou and her sister felt sorry for two little girls they knew. Their friends were so poor their toes were sticking out of their shoes. And when their friends' stepfather bought new shoes for his own daughters but none for them, Mary Lou and her sister took their own Sunday shoes and gave them to their friends.
        When she grew up, she met a man named John Lollis at a party. He had taken someone else to the party, but Mary Lou was the one he married. They had two little girls, Alice and Ruby. Mr. Lollis was a bricklayer, and when he could not find work in South Carolina he got a job in New York City, then sent for Mrs. Lollis and their two little girls.
        They settled in Harlem in 1924, and Mrs. Lollis, who never forgot anything, always remembered the sounds of jazz and laughter and how neat and clean the streets and the people were.
        When hard times came in the Depression, Mrs. Lollis began making pies in her kitchen and selling them to friends. Then she started taking them around to the barbershops and drugstores and pool halls and anywhere else she might find a few hungry men.
        Cab Calloway was one of her best customers, but the one who gave her the name the Pie Lady and made her famous all over Harlem was another fellow. Maybe he was never actually called Slim before he got into Mrs. Lollis's sweet potato pies, but once he did no one ever had a reason not to call him Fats Waller.
        Mr. Lollis died in 1949, and Mrs. Lollis never married again. ''John was a good man,'' she said. ''I could never put up with another man, especially the ones around now.''
        Over the years, Mrs. Lollis cooked and cleaned for other people and once worked for Western Union, but as she got older she mostly did volunteer work for the Mount Olivet Baptist Church and kept up with her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren, telling them stories about the old days.
        The stories might have stayed mostly in the family if Mrs. Lollis had not been waiting for a bus one day in 1989 when she met a woman named Malika Lee Whitney. Ms. Whitney runs a theater group called Pickney Productions, and pretty soon she had Mrs. Lollis telling her stories at schools and libraries and museums and parks and civic club meetings and African street festivals and black history celebrations all over New York and in Washington.
        People of all ages said they learned a lot about 20th century history listening to Mrs. Lollis, but it was the children whose eyes would get the widest and who would listen the hardest when Mrs. Lollis stood up and started telling stories about how things were in the old days.
        Afterward, they would ask questions and want to know how she managed to live so long. Mrs. Lollis would tell them she never used tobacco, alcohol or drugs.
        After she turned 101, Mrs. Lollis slowed down a bit, but it took a while for her to run down. When she died on Feb. 2, the woman who told stories about the old days was 103 years, 1 month and 1 day old.
        Mrs. Lollis, whose daughter Ruby Jewett died in December, is survived by her other daughter, Alice E. Wilson of Atlanta, 3 grandchildren, 6 great-grandchildren and 20 great-great-grandchildren.
      