
        Honoria Murphy Donnelly, the daughter of Gerald and Sara Murphy, the golden couple at the center of the modernist whirl in 1920's Europe, who was dandled on the knees of the towering figures of the avant-garde, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Palm Beach in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 81 and lived in Palm Beach Shores and East Hampton, N.Y.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Amanda Vaill, the author of ''Everybody Was So Young: Gerald and Sara Murphy -- A Lost Generation Love Story'' (Houghton Mifflin).
        Mrs. Donnelly, the eldest of the Murphys' three children and the only one to reach adulthood, published a biography of her parents, ''Sara & Gerald: Villa America and After'' (Times Books) written with Richard N. Billings, in 1982.
        Attractive, cultured and well-to-do (Gerald was heir to the Mark Cross leather goods fortune, Sara the daughter of an industrialist and a grandniece of Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman), the Murphys epitomized the urbane insouciance of the jazz age. Although Gerald enjoyed a brief career as a painter -- his small output remains well regarded -- he and his wife were content to occupy backstage roles as bartenders, muses and sometime financial angels to the foremost writers, composers and artists of their age.
        In return, the Murphys were memorialized (not always graciously) in the work they supported. They were the inspiration for Dick and Nicole Diver in F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel ''Tender is the Night''; Sara was the model for Picasso's ''Woman in White,'' and Fitzgerald bestowed the name Honoria on the heroine of his 1931 story ''Babylon Revisited.''
        Honoria Adeline Murphy (she pronounced the 'H' in her first name) was born in New York on Dec. 19, 1917. Fair haired and blue eyed, she ''looked like a Renoir and was dressed accordingly,'' in the words of the Murphy biographer Calvin Tomkins.
        In 1921, partly to escape the philistinism of American culture, the Murphys sailed for Europe with Honoria and her younger brothers, Baoth and Patrick. In Paris they painted scenery for Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, which gave them entree to a circle that included Picasso and Jean Cocteau.
        In the summer of 1925 the family moved to Antibes, on the Riviera, then an unheard-of destination in warm weather. (The Murphys are credited with starting the Riviera's summer season.) They christened their house Villa America.
        At Villa America, they moved in a shimmering bubble that seemed to insulate them from ordinary cares. The late 20's passed there in a charmed blur of jazz and Champagne and beaded dresses, of spats and white flannels and sherry and biscuits on the seashore. A representative guest list: Picasso, Fitzgerald, John Dos Passos, Archibald MacLeish, Philip Barry, Robert Benchley, Dorothy Parker, Cole Porter, Monty Woolley, Igor Stravinsky, Fernand Leger and Ernest and consecutive Mrs. Hemingways.
        To Honoria and her brothers, these artistic titans were simply the adored tall people of their enchanted childhood. Hemingway taught her to catch and gut fish. (She got off easy: he once tried to teach her father to bullfight.) The photographs in the family album were by Man Ray. Scrutinizing one of Honoria's drawings hung on the Villa America terrace (nicknamed ''Les Salons de Jeunesse''), Picasso counseled, ''Don't change it.''
        As a young woman, she studied French theater history with Mrs. Darius Milhaud and acting with Mrs. Patrick Campbell. She later performed with the French Theater of New York and worked as a secretary for Theater Inc., a producing organization. In recent years, she lectured on the Lost Generation writers and opened her vast archive of family memorabilia to scholars of the period.
        In 1929 the real world intruded savagely on the Murphys' idyll when their youngest son, Patrick, was found to have tuberculosis. They returned to the United States, where Honoria attended Rosemary Hall School in Greenwich, Conn., and the Spence School in New York, from which she graduated in 1937.
        It was Baoth who died first, in 1935, after contracting spinal meningitis at 15. ''Only the invented part of our life -- the unreal part -- has had any scheme, any beauty,'' Gerald Murphy wrote to Fitzgerald. ''Life itself has stepped in now and blundered, scarred and destroyed.''
        Two years later Patrick died at 16. Fitzgerald wrote to the Murphys: ''For a long, long time you will be inconsolable. But I can see another generation growing up around Honoria and an eventual peace somewhere.''
        A devoted daughter who was ever conscious of her responsibility as the sole surviving child, Honoria fulfilled that prophecy. After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she wed William M. Donnelly, a businessman, in 1950. (On their honeymoon, she telephoned her parents every night.) The couple lived in Carmel, Calif., and later in McLean, Va. Mrs. Donnelly, who was widowed in 1988, is survived by their children, John, of Palm Beach Shores; Sherman, of Key Biscayne, Fla., and Laura, of East Hampton, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
        ''How different a dawn than the one we saw in a hospital 18 years ago,'' Gerald Murphy wrote to Sara after the Donnellys' second son was born. ''Two boys went out from our family, and now two other boys have come into it.''
      