
        If you saw her at all, you'd see her in a cemetery late at night. She'd be clambering about one of those huge cemeteries in Brooklyn and Queens, the ones beneath the flight paths to La Guardia and Kennedy, the ones you can see from certain expressways; the graveyards with comforting names like Evergreen, Mount Neboh and Cypress Hills. She was there on the hottest, stickiest summer night when New Yorkers without air-conditioners couldn't sleep, and she was there when the temperature was below zero and the snow was hip-deep and nobody was awake.
        In the moonlight and even when there was no moon, amid the chalk-white and gray polished marble sentries guarding the dead of a great city, Gloria Marie De Martini Stradtner looked only for life in the necropolis.
        Mrs. Stradtner, who died on Dec. 22 at the age of 72, looked for stray animals. She looked for the thousands of dogs and cats abandoned every year by people who, having tired of their pets, thought not of bringing them to an animal shelter but of leaving them in a cemetery. Humans may think of cemeteries as woodland-like sanctuaries. But for animals, they are only places to starve to death in the wild.
        But Gloria -- as everyone called her -- was determined that this was not to be. Not for her strays.
        And so for 50 years or maybe more (nobody can remember when she did not make the rounds of the graveyards at night), she would go forth, lugging large bags of dog food and cat food and big and small traps of the type that cannot hurt animals. She would bait these traps and go back to her car and wait. In an hour or so, she would return to her traps. Sometimes, she would entrap a dozen animals or more in a single night, her prisoners of love. And then she would feed them.
        Mrs. Stradtner never had much money, and so to supplement the dog and cat food she bought with her Social Security money she would take jobs working in catering halls, even when she was getting on in years, so she could scoop up the scraps and bring them to her strays in the graveyards. When she was younger, back in the 1950's, she worked as a clerk and data entry specialist for I.B.M. But she did not mind doing menial work in a catering hall. Not if it meant she could feed the animals.
        And after she fed them, she would spend the next day making the rounds of veterinarians, imploring their help to neuter the dogs and cats  (they usually charged her reduced fees, which she paid with the money from her modest Social Security check). And then she would visit the shelters, asking them to please take and care for the dogs and cats that New Yorkers did not want.
        With her puppies and kittens in tow, she visited shelters outside New York. One was Pegeen Fitzgerald's Last Post Animal Sanctuary all the way up in Litchfield County, Connecticut, near the Massachusetts line. They try to specialize in housing cats there, but when Mrs. Stradtner showed up with dogs from the graveyards of New York, they took in dogs, too.
        ''I would estimate she saved thousands of animals,'' said Jeanne Toomey, who runs Last Post. ''She was wonderful. She'd name dogs and cats in the cemetery and she'd bring them up here. Nobody could refuse her.'' She visited animal sanctuaries in Long Island, upstate and in New Jersey, too, and nobody refused her in those places, either.
        Sometimes, her friends would go with her on her night visits. Michael Puccino, an executive with a Manhattan computer consulting firm, and his wife, Anne Marie, a veterinary nurse, would help whenever they could. And the cemetery workers helped, too. When it was bitter cold, the workers in at least one cemetery opened the door to a heated mausoleum so the strays could spend the night there. In another cemetery, they built little igloos in the bitterest part of the winter, hoping that Mrs. Stradtner's strays would use them to keep warm.
        Mr. Puccino told her more than once that cemeteries are not the safest places to be after dark. But she scoffed at such advice. ''She was the most adventurous, the liveliest individual you'd ever meet,'' Mr. Puccino said. When she was in her 70's, everybody thought she was in her 50's.
        Last August, somebody stole her car, which was parked on a Brooklyn street near the house on Chestnut Street where she lived.
        ''She called me, and she didn't care about the car,'' Mr. Puccino said. ''She was angry because there were 100 pounds of dog food in the trunk.''
        Last summer, there was a dog she was worried about. She called the dog Peekaboo because it peeked around gravestones at her. Peekaboo kept having litters. In one delivery, she had 10 pups. Mrs. Stradtner was determined that Peekaboo be spayed. But Peekaboo was elusive. She would come when Mrs. Stradtner called her name, but no closer than 10 feet. Peekaboo was quite wild, covered with fleas and ticks, and she trusted nobody; life in a cemetery does that to a dog.
        One day about six weeks ago, Mrs. Stradtner's speech became slurred. Mr. Puccino spoke to her on the telephone and asked her if she had been drinking. He knew she had not been drinking. She never drank and had not smoked for 20 years.
        She stayed with the Puccinos briefly, and Mr. Puccino had her examined at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore. The doctors there said she had cancer. It had started in her lungs and spread to her brain. Then, she moved to Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan; she knew somebody who worked there.
        She called Mr. Puccino on Dec. 20, two days before she died. Mr. Puccino said that she wanted to make sure that Peekaboo had been spayed (she was) and that her own two dogs, Lance and Ivy, would be taken care of after she died (he promised her they would be).
        The people who knew her and loved her were not sure yesterday about her next of kin. She had been married to a man named Stradtner for three years, maybe 40 years ago. Nobody knew where he was. They had no children. Her sister, Gladys Semino, had predeceased her. Her friends thought, however, that there were cousins.
        Somebody found a poem she was believed to have recently written, and at her funeral last Saturday, it was read. It was entitled ''Weep Not'' and began this way:
        Do not weep for me when I am gone
        For I have friends in the great beyond.
        All the little ones I used to feed
        Will come to me in my time of need.
        They will purr and bark in great delight,
        And I will hold and hug them tight.
        Oh what a great day that will be
        When my furry friends all welcome me.
      