
        Her first writings to reach print ran shoulder to shoulder with Ernest Hemingway's. For her first published poetry she was grouped with William Carlos Williams and Marianne Moore. She made it to Paris ahead of both Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. She was a leader of the University of Chicago school of imagist poets, and if hers is not a household name, by the time she died on Monday at the age of 99 in the house in Los Altos, Calif., she had occupied for two-thirds of a century, Janet Lewis had the satisfaction of knowing she had written poetry throughout the 20th century and seen it published and praised in every decade since the first.
        Her reputation has seemingly been eclipsed by that of her late husband, Yvor Winters, the poet, professor and critic who wrestled Hart Crane's ''Bridge'' into print and made Stanford -- and Los Altos -- a magnet for three generations of poets. Yet there are many who will assure you that when the literary history of the second millennium is written at the end of the third, in the category of dazzling American short fiction her ''Wife of Martin Guerre'' will be regarded as the 20th century's ''Billy Budd'' and Janet Lewis will be ranked with Herman Melville. (Though, to be fair, her prose is more often likened to Stendahl's.)
        What makes her accomplishments even more impressive is that over the course of a a career in which she wrote hundreds of poems, a single collection of short stories, a couple of children's books, a handful of novels, the words to five operas and one acclaimed masterpiece, Miss Lewis pursued a literary life in which the focus was on the life and the life was one of such placid equilibrium and domestic bliss that she had to reach deep down in her psyche -- and far back in the annals of criminal law -- to find the wellspring of tension that produced some of the 20th century's most vividly imagined and finely wrought literature.
        She also had to find the time.
        As she once observed, women of prodigious literary output, like Willa Cather and Edith Wharton, tended not to have children. As the mother of two, Miss Lewis willingly put her work aside when her children were young and cheerfully accepted other duties as well. ''It's a question of what you want to do with your life,'' she once said. ''You might also want to take care of your husband.''
        The daughter of a poetry-spouting English professor, Miss Lewis was born in Chicago and grew up in Oak Park where she and her 1899 contemporary, Ernest Hemingway, contributed their first works to the same high school literary magazines, she deriving inspiration by summering even deeper in the north woods than he and finding a lifelong fascination with nature and the natural flow of life.
        Her sentiments were expressed in a 1922 poetry collection, ''The Indians in the Woods,'' in a series of stories later included in a 1946 collection, ''Good-Bye, Son and Other Stories,'' and in a 1932 narrative, as she called it, ''The Invasion,'' the multi-generational account of a Scotch-Irish-Indian family.
        After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
        One of the first and by far the fiercest and most controversial of the New Critics and a man of cocksure opinions, for all his fabled influence on 20th century American poetry, Mr. Winters may have made his greatest contribution to literature when his wife, whose life was virtually without drama, complained that she had trouble finding suitable plots and he gave her a chance copy of a 19th-century compilation of famous old legal cases.
        By the time she had finished it, Miss Lewis had all but abandoned poetry and embarked on what turned out to be three short historical novels, ''The Wife of Martin Guerre'' (1941), ''The Trial of Soren Qvist'' (1947) and ''The Ghost of Monsieur Scarron'' (1959), all based on actual cases and so compellingly imagined and told that she inspired the 1956 ''Wife of Martin Guerre'' opera by William Bergsman, who asked her to write the libretto. The composer Alva Henderson was so impressed he got her to write the libretto for his 1976 opera, ''The Last of the Mohicans,'' and two others.
        The historical novels, Miss Lewis said later, represented the ''heavy thinking'' of a literary career that did not include her poetry. Her poems, she said, were always personal, a quiet corner of her life.
        Devastated by her husband's death in 1968, Miss Lewis, who never took his name off the mailbox and maintained his writing shed as a shrine, sought to deal with her grief by revisiting the Southwest, rediscovering her fascination with the local Indians and producing a series of memorable poems.
        For Miss Lewis, who is survived by a daughter, Joanna Thomson of Madison, Wis.; a son, Daniel Winters  of Davis, Calif., and three grandchildren, her family was always more important than her work, and her life is well reflected in her final collection, ''The Dear Past,'' (1994) with poems covering most of the century.
        Under the influence of her husband, she had done her share of experimenting, but the woman who had begun her career by taking part in the imagist revolution that sought to strip poetry of its former artifice, ended it the same way, using spare, lyrical language to describe and celebrate the simplest scenes of nature.  For a woman who charmed generations of troubled poets and other literary figures with her almost otherworldly serenity, looking back over the domestic scenes of a long, literary life it would be hard to find a more compelling image of Miss Lewis -- or one more evocative of the flesh-and-blood life beneath the surface of 20th-century literature -- than one of the many at the family's house after a warm, rollicking meal with the couple's dearest friends.
        You may have to close your eyes to conjure up the sight, but there they are forever, two 1899 contemporaries standing side by side at the kitchen sink, Janet Lewis washing, Vladimir Nabokov drying.
        So Enmeshed In Daily Life
        These poems by Janet Lewis are both from ''Poems Old and New; 1918-1978,'' Swallow Press/Ohio University Press, 1981.
        Mild and slow and young,
        She moves about the room,
        And stirs the summer dust
        With her wide broom.
        In the warm, lofted air,
        Soft lips together pressed,
        Soft wispy hair,
        She stops to rest,
        And stops to breathe,
        Amid the summer hum,
        The great white lilac bloom
        Scented with days to come.
        ''Girl Help'' (1927)
        Ah, the woods, the woods
        Where small things
        Are distinct and visible,
        The berry plant,
        The berry leaf, remembered
        Line for line.
        There are three figures
        Walking in the woods
        Whose feet press down
        Needle and leaf and vine.
        'The Indians in the Woods'' (1922)
      