
        Gyo Fujikawa, a prolific author and illustrator of children's books, including some of the first to feature children of many races, died on Nov. 26 at New York Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        The California-born daughter of a Japanese farmer and an aspiring Japanese social worker, Miss Fujikawa was among the first illustrators to command royalties rather than a flat fee.
        Miss Fujikawa's father borrowed her first name from a Chinese emperor (the name rhymes with Leo).
        She illustrated five books, including ''Mother Goose'' and ''The Night Before Christmas,'' and wrote and illustrated 45 others. She also designed six United States postage stamps, including the 32-cent yellow rose self-adhesive stamp issued last year and the United States-Japan Treaty centenary stamp of 1960.
        Although she retired from writing and illustrating books in 1990, when  her last two books were published, Barnes and Noble booksellers had recently approached her longtime literary agent about reprinting many of the ones that are out of print, said the agent, Bernard Kurman. The first two books she both wrote and illustrated, ''Babies'' and ''Baby Animals,'' have sold a combined 1.3 million copies and are still in print.
        ''If you notice,'' Miss Fujikawa wrote a few years ago, ''in all my books (except for the fairy-tale books) there are very few grown-ups. I try to draw children in such a way that they convey the emotion or the action or whatever it is that I'm talking about.''
        Born in Berkeley, Calif., in 1908, Miss Fujikawa studied at the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles before and after spending 1932 in Japan, where she developed a love of Japanese art and a stronger appreciation of her heritage. Back home, she did promotional work on the movie ''Fantasia'' for Disney Studios, which later sent her to its advertising department in New York, where she designed many 25-cent Disney books.
        After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II, Mrs. Fujikawa's family was interned in Arkansas in a relocation camp.
        During the war Miss Fujikawa did movie and pharmaceutical advertising layouts and magazine illustrations.
        After she did a composite of Disney characters for McCall's magazine, Doris Dunewald, an editor at Grosset & Dunlap, asked her to illustrate a new edition of Robert Louis Stevenson's ''A Child's Garden of Verses,'' which was published in 1953. A few years later Ms. Dunewald proposed that she write the text as well as illustrate the two books that became ''Babies'' and ''Baby Animals.'' After that Miss Fujikawa was to write and illustrate most of her books, including the last two, ''See What I Can Be!'' (Putnam, 1990) and ''Good Night, Sleep Tight, Shhh. . .'' (Random House, 1990).
        Although she was engaged for a few years beginning at the age of 19, Miss Fujikawa never married. In her autobiographical sketch, written in her later years, she said, ''I am flattered when people ask me how I know so much about how children think and feel. Although I have never had children of my own, and cannot say I had a particularly marvelous childhood, perhaps I can say I am still like a child myself. Part of me, I guess, never grew up.''
      