
        Dr. Theodora Mead Abel, a psychologist who brought an anthropologist's view to her study of the Indians of New Mexico, died Dec. 2 at her home in Forestburgh, N.Y. She was 99.
        Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring from a career largely in family therapy in New York, said Dr. Samuel Roll, a professor of psychology at the University of New Mexico. Dr. Roll collaborated with Dr. Abel in studies of Mexicans and Indians, including the Mescalero and Jicarilla Apaches, the Navajo, and the people of the Laguna, Taos, Santo Domingo and other pueblos in northern New Mexico.
        In Albuquerque, Indians of several tribes gave her the title ''grandmother'' as an indication of the respect they held for her.
        The key to her success in therapy with Indian patients was her understanding of the importance placed on a balance of life's forces, and she often asked family members to join in the therapy, Dr. Roll said.
        At age 98, Dr. Abel received the American Psychological Foundation's 1997 Gold Medal Award for life achievement.
        Theodora Abel was born in Newport, R.I., and received her B.A. from Vassar College in 1921, her M.A. from Columbia University in 1924 and her Ph.D. from Columbia in 1925.
        While a graduate student, she met and became friends with Margaret Mead while they were lined up alphabetically to take care of paperwork. Though they shared the same last name at the time, they were not related. Decades later, Dr. Mead, by then known worldwide for her work in anthropology, wrote the introduction for Dr. Abel's book ''Culture and Psychotherapy'' (College and University Press, 1975), written with Rhoda Metraux.
        Dr. Abel taught at the University of Illinois and at Sarah Lawrence College and later became the director of research at the Manhattan Trade School for Girls. In 1940, she joined Letchworth Village psychiatric center in Rockland County, N.Y.,  as a research psychologist. In 1947, she joined the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health in Manhattan, where she was director of psychoanalysis.
        In 1971, she moved to New Mexico and began her work there. When she was 88, she collaborated on a new version of her 1975 book, this time called ''Psychotherapy and Culture'' (University of New Mexico Press, 1987), with Dr. Roll and Ms. Metraux. Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service. She saw patients into her 90's.
        Her husband, Theodore Abel, died in 1988. Dr. Abel returned to New York this year.
        Survivors include two daughters, Caroline Lalire of Hamilton, Va., and Zita Emerson of Albuquerque; a son, Peter Abel of St. Davids, Pa., 10 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      