
        Flora Roberts, a dynamic play agent who represented many important theater artists, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 77, and lived in Manhattan and Bridgewater, Conn.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said her associate Sarah Douglas.
        Stephen Sondheim, Tina Howe, Alfred Uhry, Maury Yeston and others were greatly indebted to Ms. Roberts, who encouraged them to challenge themselves. As she said in an interview earlier this year, ''writers are causes.'' When she believed in someone, she devoted herself wholeheartedly to nurturing the career of that client.
        As Mr. Sondheim said, she was ''a protector and an idealist'' who cared more about the work than the contract. She was not known for her power as a negotiator but for her perspicacity in reading scripts and in analyzing a play in production. Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, said Ms. Roberts had ''a real ability to think like a producer, feel like an artist and act like an agent.''
        A perfect personification of her first name, Ms. Roberts gave new meaning to the word flamboyant. She was, Ms. Howe said, ''a woman of enormous style, heart, experience, courage, intelligence -- a real original.'' As round as she was short, and fond of wearing large red hats, Ms. Roberts was one of the most colorful people in the American theater, bursting with energy and with a gravelly voice that approached that of a basso profundo. She was outspoken with her ideas and comments and thought nothing of castigating a client if she felt that a play was worthy of improvement.
        Her greatest talent was in her instinctive reaction to fine work, no matter where it came from. As she said, ''Fortunately, I have a finger on the pulse.'' Years ago, Frank Loesser sent her a composer who had written a musical that he considered very noncommercial. She listened to the composer play one song on the piano in her apartment, and it gave her goose bumps. The song was ''Sit Down, John''; the musical was ''1776.'' She recommended that the composer, Sherman Edwards, work with Peter Stone (not her client) as a book writer. Then she guided the show to its Broadway success.
        When she received a script of ''The Gin Game,'' she wondered who would want to do ''a two-character play about old people,'' then noticed a photograph on her wall of Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy in ''The Four-Poster.'' She called Mr. Cronyn, and, buoyed by his enthusiasm, the play quickly rolled into production. The author, D. L. Coburn, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1977, one of many honors awarded to Ms. Roberts's clients, including Pulitzers for ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' Mr. Sondheim's ''Sunday in the Park With George'' and ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' a play that she suggested Mr. Uhry write when he was thinking of doing a television mini-series.
        She met Mr. Sondheim in the early 1950's when he was working on his first show, ''Saturday Night,'' and he became her longest-running client. From ''West Side Story'' onward, she made creative contributions to his musicals.
        Last season, shows that Ms. Roberts represented filled theatrical marquees: Ms. Howe's ''Pride's Crossing,'' the revivals of ''Anne Frank'' and ''1776,'' and, carried over from the previous season, Mr. Uhry's ''Last Night of Ballyhoo'' and the musical ''Titanic.''
        Ms. Roberts was born in the Bronx, and studied at the Manhattan School of Music and Hunter College to become an opera singer. At one point she sang for Arturo Toscanini. She remembered that he said, ''Molta musica, but a small voice.'' Eventually, she became something of a diva in real life, and switched from opera to torch songs, which she often sang for friends.
        After graduation, she worked as an all-purpose assistant to Kermit Bloomgarden, the producer. One day in the mid-1940's Mr. Bloomgarden gave her a new play to read, Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest.'' When the playwright asked what she thought of it, she offered  frank criticism. In response, Ms. Hellman told the producer to give his assistant a raise, adding, ''She's right, and I don't think I can fix it.''
        ''I got a raise,'' said Ms. Roberts, ''and she tried to fix it.''
        That same year, Arthur Miller submitted a play (later titled ''All My Sons'') to Mr. Bloomgarden and she advised him to produce it. Able to present only one play at a time, he chose Ms. Hellman's instead, but with Ms. Roberts's encouragement, subsequently produced ''Death of a Salesman.''
        In the 1950's, because of her interest in playwrights, she became an agent. One of her first clients was Ira Levin, then a television writer. She got him an assignment adapting the Mac Hyman novel ''No Time for Sergeants,'' first for television, then for Broadway, and she discovered the play's star, Andy Griffith.
        Although most of her clients were writers, Ms. Roberts also represented a few directors (Susan Stroman) and designers (Jennifer Tipton). Frequently she had solicitations to join major talent agencies, but she remained fiercely independent and placed great emphasis on personal loyalty. As she said: ''I really love most of my clients. That's a privilege when you're on your own.''
        She is survived by her sister, Janet Sovin of Berkeley, Calif., and her brother, David, of Huntington Station, N.Y.
        Ms. Roberts's major passions were theater and horses. She owned a racehorse, Allaway, and often visited Belmont Park. At the track or on Broadway, she relied upon her experience and her assessment of form and potential. Sometimes she just took a flier and followed her intuition, as when she bet on a horse named ''Comedy Tonight'' because Mr. Sondheim had written a song by that name. Naturally, she bet on the horse to show, and it did. About her other preoccupation, she said, ''I gamble on the theater every day.''
      