
        Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver. She was 56 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y.
        The cause was breast cancer, Carnegie Hall officials said yesterday.
        Ms. Arron presided over probably the most momentous years of Carnegie Hall since its rescue from the wrecking ball in 1960. The exhaustive $60 million renovation of the hall in 1986 happened on her watch, as well as the seasonlong and highly festive centennial celebration of 1990-91.
        Ms. Arron used the refurbishment of Carnegie Hall's smaller Weill Recital Hall as an opportunity to transform it from a rental space to an important venue for events produced by the Hall. They included debut series, chamber music events, jazz concerts and a new music series administered by the Carnegie Hall Composer's Chair, which is currently held by Ellen Taaffe Zwilich.
        Under Ms. Arron, the Hall promoted and extended educational programs, with workshops overseen by musicians like Robert Shaw and Pierre Boulez. In partnership with the Hall's president, the violinist Isaac Stern, and its chairman, Sanford Weill, Ms. Arron began an endowment campaign in 1995 and had raised $87 million to date.
        Ms. Arron came to Carnegie Hall from Cincinnati, where she was the Cincinnati Symphony's manager and the director of its May Festival. Her work in developing educational programs there in 1969 was admired in orchestra circles. Before that, Ms. Arron had worked for the American Symphony Orchestra League and a Government arts program.
        Ms. Arron was born in Seattle and graduated from the University of Puget Sound with a performance degree in cello and piano. Her husband, Ronald D. Arron, is a violinist with the Met Orchestra.
        Mr. Stern said yesterday that Ms. Arron's health in the last two weeks had been ''touch and go'' but that her eight-and-a-half-year battle with cancer had been ''a miracle'' and a victory of ''will and heart over doctors and medicine.''
        At her death, Ms. Arron was preparing to bring yet another performing space to Carnegie Hall, a below-ground area long occupied by the Carnegie Hall Cinema to be equipped with high-tech appurtenances and intended for smaller opera productions and experimental work.
        Ms. Arron is survived, in addition to her husband, by two sons, Joseph and Edward of Manhattan; her parents, Richard and Berenice Hagerty La Quinta, Calif.; a sister, Colleen Fretz of Belize, and two brothers, Richard Hagerty Jr. of Modesto, Calif., and Dale Hagerty also of La Quinta.
        Correction:  December 25, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday, and in some copies on Sunday, about Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, misstated the position of her husband, Ronald D. Arron, in the Metropolitan Opera  Orchestra. He is a violist, not a violinist.
      