
        Edith Oliver, a diminutive, raspy-voiced and highly influential drama critic at The New Yorker for more than three decades who got her start writing questions for radio quiz shows, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84.
        ''She was packaged like the quintessential elderly lady that a Boy Scout would help across the street, except that she drank martinis, smoked cigarettes and could, on occasion, have a mouth like a sailor,'' said George White, chairman and founder of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, where Miss Oliver served as a dramaturge for 20 seasons at its National Playwrights Conference in Waterford, Conn. ''She could be tough and would brook no banality, but she truly loved playwrights and loved the theater.''
        Born in New York to parents she later described as ''stage-struck,'' Miss Oliver remembered seeing her first show at the age of 5. After attending Smith College, she studied acting at the Berkshire Playhouse in Stockbridge, Mass., and began performing on radio shows, including ''Gangbusters,'' ''Crime Doctor'' and the ''Philip Morris Playhouse.''
        From 1937 until 1941, she wrote the radio quiz show ''True or False?,'' and for a dozen years, beginning in 1940, she wrote and eventually also produced ''Take It or Leave It: The $64 Question.''
        Miss Oliver began contributing to The New Yorker in 1947 and joined the staff in 1961 as a movie and theater critic, eventually becoming among the most influential voices covering Off Broadway theater.
        ''Off Broadway was the love of my life,'' she said in a 1992 interview. ''I was young enough to be all over town, four or five nights a week. The thrill was Harlem in the 60's, for the music and the theater.''
        She also ran the magazine's book department for many years, while continuing to write.
        ''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference. ''You didn't puff yourself up in front of Edith. She could prick the balloon.''
        In 1987 she began to share the coverage of Broadway shows for The New Yorker, first with Mimi Kramer and then with John Lahr. She retired in 1992. But for three more years, Miss Oliver continued to take part in the summer conference at the O'Neill Center, where she was a feisty and sometimes profane figure.
        Despite her frank language, Miss Oliver said she would never allow any coarseness to sneak into her New Yorker copy. ''I can't compromise the magazine's standards of civility,'' she once said.
        Woodie King, artistic director at the New Federal Theater, said, ''For our first 15 years of existence, she covered all of our productions and gave us and other theater groups a visibility that we would not have had otherwise.''
        He added: ''She always supported innovative writing. Even late in life, when it was difficult for her to get around, you would always see her there.''
        She is survived by a brother, Robert Goldsmith of Harwich, Mass.
        During a 1989 critics' roundtable in Manhattan, Miss Oliver described her approach to her work. ''I think of myself as a member of the audience,'' she said. ''And I try to maintain that attitude until the curtain comes down. I don't want to deprive myself of any surprises.''
        She could be very hard on playwrights, but told an interviewer that she tried always to be gentle with actors.
        ''I have the greatest sympathy for actors and their problems,'' she said. ''They don't need me to add to their burden.''
      