
        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital. She was 83 and lived in Harlem.
        From 1948, when the Schomburg Center was known as the Schomburg Collection, until 1980, when she retired as its chief, Mrs. Hutson harnessed her powerful will to assemble an archive of documents, books and works of art that reflected the experience not just of African-Americans, but of peoples throughout the African diaspora.
        Under her supervision, the library grew to 75,000 volumes from 15,000 volumes. She assembled an important collection of historical material from Haiti, as well as of African art, and persuaded her childhood friend, Langston Hughes, to donate a portion of his papers to the center. A friend of Romare Bearden, Dorothy West, Richard Wright, W. E. B. DuBois and other figures of the Harlem Renaissance, Mrs. Hutson helped make the Schomburg the cultural center of Harlem.
        Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it. And in the years when the Schomburg's budget was faltering, she fought for financing, and lobbied the State Legislature for money.
        ''She had an exacting personality,'' said Howard Dodson, the present chief of the Schomburg. ''She ran a tight ship and had an astute way of getting what she wanted done.  Once her mind was set on doing something, there was no stopping her.''
        She was born in 1914 in Sommerfield, Fla., where her father, Paul O. Blackwell, was in business as a  farmer. Her mother, Sarah Myers  Blackwell, was an elementary school teacher. When she was 4, she and her mother moved to Baltimore while her father remained in Florida to run his business, commuting back and forth to Baltimore to visit his family.
        Through her baby sitter, who ran a boarding house, she met the poet Langston Hughes. Hughes was then a student at Lincoln University in Oxford, Pa., and went to Baltimore on weekends. Their friendship endured. Throughout his life he referred to her as his ''baby sister,'' and when Mrs. Hutson came to Harlem as a young woman, Hughes made sure she met the leading writers and artists.
        At 15, Mrs. Hutson was class valedictorian at her graduation from Douglass High School in Baltimore, then an all-black high school in a segregated system. The school had exacting standards and emphasized the study of black history and literature. One of her teachers was Yolande Du Bois, the daughter of W. E. B. DuBois.
        She attended the University of Michigan, then switched to Barnard College. In 1935, she became the second black woman to graduate from Barnard; the first was Zora Neale Hurston.
        Mrs. Hutson wanted to be a psychiatrist but took up library science with the goal of financing medical studies. In 1936 she received a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Library Service.
        Her first job was in the New York City Public Branch Library system. As a librarian in the Bronx, Mrs. Hutson noticed that there were few Spanish-language books that would appeal to the borough's Spanish population, and she arranged to buy some. In 1939, she married Andy Razaf, a lyricist who wrote songs for Fats Waller. The marriage ended in divorce eight years later.
        In 1950 she married John Hutson, a fellow employee at the Countee Cullen branch library. Mr. Hutson died in 1957. They had one daughter, Jean Frances, who died in 1992. Mrs. Hutson left no survivors.
        In 1948, Mrs. Hutson was asked to take over the Schomburg, which was based on the private library of Arthur Alphonzo Schomburg, a Puerto Rican of African descent. ''I was drafted for six months to keep the Negroes quiet,'' Mrs. Hutson once said. ''People who grew up in the Depression didn't throw away jobs, so I came.''
        With the rise of the black power movement and the success of independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, interest in the Schomburg grew. In 1962, under her supervision, the library published the Dictionary Catalogue of the Schomburg Collection, which was put on microfilm and made its holdings known to libraries in Europe, Africa and the Americas.
        Mrs. Hutson's work in developing the Schomburg caught the attention of President Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, who asked her help in building an Africana collection at the University of Ghana. She lived in Ghana in 1964.
        During the 1960's and 70's, the situation at the Schomburg grew perilous, with its collections deteriorating in the Countee Cullen branch library, a sparsely furnished, poorly lighted  space without air-conditioning at 103 West 135th Street. In 1971, Mrs. Hutson helped establish the Schomburg Corporation to raise money for a new building.
        She ''learned to go to Albany,'' as she said once in an interview. There were many politicians, Mrs. Hutson said, ''who had never seen a black woman up in front of them at the legislature.'' Eventually she helped obtain a Federal grant for the construction of a new building.
        In 1981, the new $3.7 million center finally opened, five stories tall, built of red brick and glass, climate-controlled, with an art gallery. By then, Mrs. Hutson had retired as the Schomburg's chief, and had taken a job in the office of library administration at the Public Library's headquarters on 42d Street.
        Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      