
        Irene Kampen, who saw her sometimes strife-torn life as such a sitcom that it took Lucille Ball to portray it on television, died on Monday in Oceanside, Calif. She was 75 and the author of the book that inspired ''The Lucy Show.''
        Her family said the cause was breast cancer.
        Mrs. Kampen may not have been a born humorist, but she got a good start. Her father, Jack Trepel, a Rockefeller Center florist, was an accomplished magician with the gift of patter, and to hear Mrs. Kampen tell it, her mother, Mary, always had something funny to say and never held her tongue.
        By the time she got to the University of Wisconsin, Mrs. Kampen, who was born in Brooklyn and later lived in Great Neck, N.Y., was funny enough to become editor of the campus humor magazine.
        After graduating in 1943 with a degree in journalism, she worked as a copy girl at the old New York Journal-American. A child of her era, she wanted to be a conventional housewife and mother, and for a while she got her wish.
        After her marriage to Owen Kampen, an artist and illustrator whom she had met in college, the couple settled in Levittown, on Long Island, where Mrs. Kampen kept house, took care of her young daughter, and, in a concession to her training, contributed society columns to the weekly Levittown Tribune.
        In 1954, to be closer to Mrs. Kampen's parents, the couple built a house in Ridgefield, Conn., and might have settled into an idyllic New England life if Mr. Kampen hadn't had an affair with the architect's wife.  The resulting divorce was as bitter as any, but Mrs. Kampen came through it with a sure-fire sense of the absurd.
        It wasn't easy being a divorced mother in a tiny New England town in the 1950's. Mrs. Kampen took in another struggling divorced mother to help make ends meet.
        But for all the economic hardship and social stigma, she not only made the best of it; she also took notes.  And when she turned them into a book, ''Life Without George,'' in 1961, she had a new career.
        Her timing was close to perfect. The book came out just as Lucille Ball, whose divorce from Desi Arnaz had undercut the premise of her famous ''I Love Lucy'' television series, was casting around for a new format as a working mother. ''Life Without George'' fit the bill.
        The success of the book and of the television series, which ran from 1962 to 1968, helped persuade Mrs. Kampen to continue mining her life for comedy. Although she had barely mentioned her husband in ''Life Without George,'' she tried her hand at serious, cathartic fiction with ''We That Are Left,'' a thinly disguised 1961 account of her marriage.
        For the 1965 ''Europe Without George,'' she returned to humor with a vengeance.
        Taking no chances during a summer research vacation, she ordered her college-age daughter to go out and have fun and adventures in every city they visited.
        Her daughter chafed a bit, but provided enough good subject matter that for a while she became a virtual subsidiary of the family enterprise. When she and her boyfriend wanted to go skiing, for example, her mother insisted on going along, not simply as a chaperone but because she wanted to take notes. Mrs. Kampen recounted the adventure in ''Last Year at Sugarbush'' (1965).
        Similarly, her daughter's wedding became ''Here Comes the Bride, There Goes the Mother'' (1967), and while Mrs. Kampen did not accompany the couple on their honeymoon, she was right there when they went to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin, turning out ''Due to Lack of Interest, Tomorrow Has Been Canceled,'' the story of a 45-year-old divorced woman who returns to college in the hippie era.
        Mrs. Kampen, whose other books include ''Are You Carrying Any Gold or Living Relatives?,'' a 1970 account of a trip to the Soviet Union, also wrote widely for magazines, turned out self-deprecating columns about her life for local newspapers and talked her way repeatedly around the world as a cruise-ship lecturer.
        As she got older, the travails of aging provided a fount of material.
        In addition to her daughter, Christine Gutherie of San Francisco, Mrs. Kampen is survived by her companion, Louis Ferioli, and a sister, Joyce Miller of Washington.
      