
        Helen Billings Burnham, a one-time real estate woman with no legal training who spent 22 years dispensing justice, sometimes from her family room, as a part-time, round-the-clock town justice in Salina, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Mattydale, a suburb of Syracuse. She was 81 and had retired in 1993.
        Her family said the cause was cancer.
        As a judge who never went to law school, Mrs. Burnham was hardly an anomaly. Only about a quarter of New York's 2,000 or so local court judges have law degrees.
        Even so, when the Salina town board named her to succeed her husband, Richard, as town justice after he was killed in a motorcycle accident in 1971, there were those who thought she did not belong on the bench. Her husband's friends, she recalled, told her it was not a job for a lady. After all, although town justices mainly handle traffic offenses and small claims disputes, perform wedding ceremonies and preside over misdemeanor cases involving penalties of no more than a year in jail, those who are hauled into court are rarely the most reputable of citizens. And the duties of a town justice also include arraigning accused murderers and other desperate felony suspects, sometimes in the middle of the night.
        Mrs. Burnham, a large, imposing woman who had run her own real estate business and served as her husband's clerk during his nine years as town justice, was not intimidated.
        ''I became a judge and stopped being a lady,'' she said.
        The appointment, which made her the 16th woman to serve as judge in New York and the first in Onondaga County, was not popular with her husband's Republican allies.
        At the end of the year, when the Republicans named a man to run in a special election to fill out her husband's term, Mrs. Burnham felt miffed enough to leave the Republican Party but not enough to become an actual Democrat. So she blithely switched her enrollment to the Conservative Party, picked up the gleeful endorsement of local Democrats and won the election.
        After that, neither the Republicans nor anybody else bothered to put up a candidate against her. Running unopposed, she won five more four-year terms.
        A native of Earlville, N.Y., Mrs. Burnham attended the Utica School of Commerce and moved to Mattydale, a Salina hamlet, in 1952 when her husband, who was a lawyer, took a job with an insurance company in Syracuse before starting a private practice there.
        By the time of her husband's death, Mrs. Burnham had spent enough time in his courtroom, an attached garage that had been converted to a family room, to know pretty much what to expect.
        Over the next two decades she dispensed justice with such consistent compassion, good humor and common sense that in 1989 the National Judges Association named her the outstanding non-attorney judge in the United States.
        Shortly before she became town justice, Salina had provided a courtroom in the municipal office building, but except for scheduled traffic court evenings and the like, until she closed it in 1980, Mrs. Burnham performed most of her part-time judicial duties at her real estate office.
        But as a town justice on call 24 hours a day, she did not bother to redecorate the old family room.
        In a sequence that became a familiar drill, Mrs. Burnham would be awakened by a midnight call from the sheriff's office, get out of bed, slip her black judicial robe over her nightgown and be ready, gavel in hand, when the latest felony suspect was brought in for arraignment.
        For all her work on criminal cases, Mrs. Burnham was best known for her weddings.
        She performed more than 3,000 marriage ceremonies, earning the nickname ''the marrying judge,'' in part because when it came to marriage, Mrs. Burnham was a judicial romantic who would go just about anywhere anytime in the cause of Cupid.
        Over the years, she presided at poolside weddings, one in an airplane, another on horseback and on more than a few occasions at hospital maternity wards a few contractions ahead of the bride's baby.
        After she stepped down as town justice, Mrs. Burnham was named Salina's town historian and produced two books, one a history of Mattydale, and the other, ''The Room on the Side of the House,'' an account of her judicial experiences.
        A fun-loving, outspoken woman who learned to curb her tongue during her years on the bench, Mrs. Burnham relished her retirement.
        ''Now I'm not a judge or a lady,'' she said. ''I can say and do whatever I want to.''
        She is survived by two sons, Richard of Virginia Beach, Va., and William of Cicero, N.Y.; four daughters, Jeanne Steffanelli of Portsmouth, Va., Linda Bamberger of Mattydale and Candice Jost and Cynthia Morris of Syracuse; 15 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      