
        Anne Sayre, a short story writer turned scientific sleuth who helped establish the important role played by the British crystallographer Rosalind Franklin in the discovery of the structure of DNA, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Bridgewater, N.J. She was 74 and the author of the 1975 book ''Rosalind Franklin and DNA.''
        Her husband, David, said the cause was scleroderma, a rare rheumatoid disorder.
        Until Mrs. Sayre's book was published by Norton in 1975, Rosalind Franklin had been little more than a footnote to the history of the discovery of the double helix, the form taken by deoxyribonucleic acid, the stuff of heredity.
        In their 1953 paper in the British journal Nature, James D. Watson and Francis H. C. Crick, who first constructed a model of the DNA molecule, barely mentioned Dr. Franklin and gave her none of the credit for their conceptual breakthrough.
        A decade after Miss Franklin's death in 1958 and six years after he, Dr. Crick and Dr. Franklin's associate, Maurice Wilkins, won the Nobel Prize in 1962 for their work on DNA, Dr. Watson provided a hint of Dr. Franklin's contribution.
        In his 1968 best-selling book ''The Double Helix,'' Dr. Watson acknowledged that he had seen a diffraction X-ray photograph of the DNA molecule taken by Dr. Franklin, but he left it unclear just what role the photograph had played in the discovery a few weeks later of the DNA structure.
        That role might have remained a mystery if Dr. Watson had not provided such an unflattering portrait of Dr. Franklin that it outraged many international crystallographers.
        It might yet have remained a mystery if within months of the book's publication, the world's crystallographers had not held their triennial meeting on Long Island, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, practically next door to the Sayres' longtime home in the North Shore village of Head of the Harbor.
        As it happened, Mrs. Sayre's husband, a crystallographer then working for I.B.M., was a host of the meeting, and he and his wife, who had met Dr. Franklin in Paris in the late 1940's, spent a lot of time listening to the visiting scientists complaining about Dr. Watson's portrayal of Dr. Franklin and speculating on whether her photograph had played a significant role in the discovery of the DNA structure.
        At the urging of the crystallographers familiar with her work as a short story writer, Mrs. Sayre agreed to do a book on the subject. After years of research, including a stint in England, she produced the 1975 book. Among other things, it established that the Franklin photograph had been far more important than had been acknowledged in leading Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick to their discovery of the DNA structure.
        Indeed, in Mrs. Sayre's book, Dr. Crick went so far as to suggest that Dr. Franklin was just weeks away from making the DNA discovery herself when her unscrupulous associate Dr. Wilkins showed the photograph to Dr. Watson without her permission.
        Dr. Watson has since acknowledged the role played by the photograph in the DNA discovery, but has continued to disparage Dr. Franklin, saying yesterday that she had not been a real crystallographer and had missed the significance of her own photograph.
        Nevertheless, Mrs. Sayre's book has been widely cited in feminist circles for helping to expose rampant sexism in science.
        Mrs. Sayre was already familiar with sexism elsewhere in society.
        Born on a train passing through Milwaukee, Mrs. Sayre, who grew up in Woodmere, N.Y., was a brilliant student who majored in government at Radcliffe, but was dissuaded by the sexual barriers of the day from going on to law school.
        After holding a series of jobs in advertising and magazine publishing, Mrs. Sayre, who met her husband while working briefly at a radiation laboratory in Cambridge, turning out short stories, some of which were included in annual anthologies.
        Before her 1975 book on Rosalind Franklin, Mrs. Sayre had written just one other book, a well-received 1957 book for teen-agers, ''Never Call Retreat,'' about a Quaker family living in the South during Reconstruction.
        Working on the Rosalind Franklin book helped prompt Mrs. Sayre to redress an old feminist complaint of her own.
        She received her law degree from New York University, worked for a while as a volunteer Legal Aid lawyer in Riverhead, N.Y., then in the late 1980's became town justice in Head of the Harbor, a post she held until illness forced her to step down in 1996.
        Her husband is her only survivor.
        Editor's Note:  July 8, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on March 18 about Anne Sayre, an author, described a book she wrote in 1975 about the role of Rosalind Franklin, a British biologist, in the discovery of the structure of DNA 45 years ago. The article recounted an incident in 1952 in which Maurice Wilkins, a colleague of Dr. Franklin's, showed other scientists in the field an X-ray photograph she had taken.
        In describing the incident, the article called Dr. Wilkins ''her unscrupulous associate.'' While some biologists question the prudence of what he did with her photograph, the consensus is that it was not unscrupulous. The term should not have appeared.
        This note was delayed by an editing lapse.
      