
        Esther Bubley, a documentary photographer who was noted for her sober, no-frills portrayal of post-World War II middle America, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said her niece, Jean Bubley.
        In the late 1930's, Ms. Bubley was  drawn to the picture essays in Life magazine and to the photography project of the Farm Security Administration. She studied painting and photography at the Minneapolis School of Art, and in 1942 became a microfilmer of rare books at the National Archives in Washington. The next year she was transferred to the darkrooms of the Office of War Information, which was headed by Roy Stryker, former director of the farm photography project.
        She photographed Washington during her spare time, producing images that, in their loneliness, mystery and sadness, predated Robert Frank's book, ''The Americans,'' by more than a decade. In a Hopperesque image from 1943, one of the many young women who had flocked to the nation's capital to work for the war effort is shown sitting by herself at the end of a long, polished table, her arms folded, a cigarette in one hand. Her face is spotlighted, a look of almost painful solitude etched on it. In a kind of companion image,  taken the same year, a soldier in a photography booth looks lost in gloomy thoughts.
        That year, Stryker assigned Ms. Bubley to photograph the transportation services available to soldiers and their families. It was the beginning of a long association that she regarded as the most important in her career. Also through Stryker, she was assigned to documentary projects by various companies and  magazine editors.
        Ms. Bubley moved to New York in the mid-1940's. In 1952, her work was included in a group show at the Museum of Modern Art in New York that was part of a series titled ''Diogenes With a Camera'' (the other photographers in the exhibition were Edward Weston, Frederick Sommer, Harry Callahan, Eliot Porter and W. Eugene Smith). In 1955, three of Ms. Bubley's images of schoolgirls and young women appeared in the ''Family of Man'' exhibition at the Modern.
        In the 1970's, Ms. Bubley embarked on a very different photographic project: macrophotography of plants. These images were compiled in a 1979 book, ''A Mysterious Presence: Macrophotography of Plants.'' In her luminous, extreme close-ups, the plants are sinuous abstractions or have the fantastical tactility of insects under a powerful magnifier. One image of air bubbles caught in a starburst of cornflower seed hairs is magically jewel-like.
        Ms. Bubley's work appeared in  publications including Life, Look, Sports Illustrated, Ladies Home Journal, Harper's Bazaar, Time, Fortune and The New York Times Magazine. Before her death, she was preparing a book of her work, to be published next year by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
        Her 1947 marriage to Edwin Locke, a writer, ended in divorce. She is survived by two sisters, Anita Greenspan of Bethesda, Md., and Claire Tepper of Falls Church, Va.
      