
        Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuing care community in New Hampshire. She was 87.
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith, a microbiologist who was Radcliffe president from 1959 to 1972, was called Polly from childhood and added Smith to her name after her second marriage,  in 1979.
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith, who was also known for overseeing the fuller integration of Radcliffe College into Harvard, founded the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Study -- now the Bunting Institute -- to help women who were scholars, writers, artists and scientists return to careers interrupted by family obligations.
        ''Polly Bunting was always ahead of her time in anticipating the needs of women and of Radcliffe College,'' said Derek Bok, president emeritus of Harvard and a professor there. ''The idea of the Radcliffe Institute seems so obvious now. But the idea that there would be women who wanted to come back was a new idea then, and she saw that and created an institution that made it possible.''
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith was also the first female member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the President's Committee on the Status of Women and a vice president of the Peace Corps.
        Underused women and interrupted careers were a theme for Mrs. Bunting-Smith. She chided society for its ''waste of highly talented, educated womenpower,'' as she put it in a 1961 article she wrote for The New York Times Magazine, calling it a ''prodigious national extravagance.''
        A soft-spoken woman who herself had worked part time while her children were young, she devoted her life to fighting that waste, to raising expectations among and about women and to creating opportunities for them.
        As she saw it, two ''hidden dissuaders'' lowered the professional expectations of women: a system of higher education that, first, ignored real differences between male and female patterns of life and, second, did not provide for women who wanted to keep working part time in their fields while raising families. She established the Radcliffe Institute specifically to give scholarships to women cut off from careers by marriage.
        To see a model of an active, engaged woman, Mrs. Bunting-Smith had only to look within her own family. Born in Brooklyn in 1910, she was one of four children of Mary Shotwell Ingraham, who was president of both the Brooklyn Young Women's Christian Association and the Y.W.C.A.'s national board. Her mother was also  a member of the New York City Board of Higher Education who helped plan the creation of the City University. Her father was Henry A. Ingraham, a lawyer and one of the founders of Long Island College of Medicine.
        In her early years, Polly Bunting loved being outside. Although an avid reader, she did not go to school regularly until high school, because of her uncertain health. And she did not enjoy school. ''I was glad to get rid of it in the afternoon and get back to something interesting,'' she once said.
        A growing interest in the sciences drew her into academia. She majored in physics at Vassar College, her mother's alma mater. At the University of Wisconsin, she studied agricultural bacteriology, earning a master's degree and a doctorate and meeting her husband, Henry Bunting, a medical student who shared her interest in hiking and bird watching. During his medical residency, she taught at Bennington College in Vermont. They married in 1937 and moved to Connecticut, where he was on the faculty of Yale University and she conducted research, working on the effects of radiation on bacteria.
        While her four children were young, she spent more time at home, in Bethany, Conn. But even with young children, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was a 4-H leader, served on the library and school boards and was one of the organizers and directors of the Public Health Nursing Association.
        When her husband died of a brain tumor in 1954, however, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was forced to look for a full-time job. Because she was a woman, there were no faculty openings at Yale, her son Charles recalled yesterday, and she jumped at the offer to become dean of Douglass College, the women's college of Rutgers University. She was a professor in the department of bacteriology there and an honorary professor at the Rutgers Institute of Microbiology.
        At Douglass, she introduced a multilingual course in world poetry run by the students, as well as a program of part-time study for married women.
        Five years later, at age 48, she was offered a job as the fifth president of Radcliffe College, the undergraduate college for women at Harvard University, with about 1,775 women.
        She liked talking to students and kept an open door. She taught a freshman seminar. In meetings with students, she would sometimes kick off her shoes and invite her guests to do the same, and to join her on the floor. She also liked to chat with students who dropped by her Brattle Street house, and she would turn on her porch light on to signal that she was in.
        Such access did not protect her from student protest. In the late 1960's, 20 black students sat in the Radcliffe administration offices seeking increased minority enrollment. Mrs. Bunting-Smith, who was at a conference in North Carolina, flew back to meet with the protesters and promised to act on their complaints. She faced other protests during the Vietnam War.
        Another source of dissension was her work to merge Radcliffe more completely into Harvard. Radcliffe students already took classes with Harvard students, but they were admitted to college separately and had their own living quarters, administration and trustees. Mrs. Bunting-Smith thought the system inequitable and worked to integrate the campuses more fully, even though it ultimately reduced the role of the Radcliffe president.
        But she may be best remembered for the establishment of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Study, which opened in 1961 with the help of $150,000 from the Carnegie Foundation and other grants. Its purpose was to pursue research into the psychological and cultural factors that affected women's status in society, and also to support female artists, scientists and scholars, particularly those who had suspended their careers because of family responsibilities.
        In its first year the institute gave 20 women scholarships of up to $3,000 each, space to do their work and access to Radcliffe and Harvard services.
        The poet Maxine Kumin, a member of that first group of scholars, remembers her two years at the institute as an ''amazing'' experience, with a diverse group of artists, scientists, social scientists and poets, ''with Polly Bunting as our ringmaster.''
        Ms. Kumin said that at a time when she was teaching English composition to physical education majors at Tufts University because only men were allowed to teach liberal arts majors, ''being chosen as a Radcliffe scholar put an imprimatur on what you were doing and gave it legitimacy.''
        Since that first class of scholars, more than 1,200 women have been given fellowships at the institute, including the author Alice Walker, the psychologist Carol Gilligan; former Gov. Madeleine M. Kunin of Vermont; the poets Anne Sexton and Sophie Cabot Black; the performance artist Anna Deavere Smith; the anthropologist Mary Catherine Bateson, and the geophysicist and astronaut Marcia McNutt.
        After Mrs. Bunting-Smith stepped down as president of Radcliffe in 1972, she spent three years as special assistant to the president of Princeton University, William Bowen, working on coeducation there.
        In 1979, she married Dr. Clement A. Smith, a pediatrician and faculty member at Harvard. He died in 1988.
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith is survived by three sons, Charles I. Bunting of Shelbourne, Vt., William H. Bunting of North Whitefield, Me., and John E. Bunting of New Boston, N.H.; a daughter, Mary B. Decher of Bellevue, Wash; three stepdaughters,  Pamela Smith of Harvard, Me., Gail Smith Biggar of Concord, Mass., and Hilary Smith of Peacham, Vt.; a stepson, Reynolds Smith of Harvard, Me.; a sister, Winifred I. Warner of Laurel Hollow, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      