
        The Dowager Countess of Enniskillen, formerly Nancy MacLennon, an American journalist and consular officer, died on Feb. 24 at Kinloch House, her home in Amulree, Perthshire, north of Edinburgh. She was 80.
        Lady Enniskillen started a newspaper career in her native Bridgeport, Conn. She then worked for The New York Times for seven years until she joined the United States Foreign Service Reserve in 1949.
        She was the widow of the 6th Earl of Enniskillen, holder of a title created in 1789 with its seat in Enniskillen, County Fermanagh, some 60 miles west of Belfast in Northern Ireland. The couple moved to Scotland in 1980 and Lord Enniskillen, formerly Capt. David Lowry Cole, died in 1989.
        Lady Enniskillen wrote several books, including ''Florence Court My Irish Home'' about Enniskillen.
        She graduated from Cornell University in 1938 and joined the staff of The New York Times in Washington in 1942 to write about women's news. With the country at war, her articles typically dealt with women in Congress, on the assembly line and in the armed forces, military nurses and the wives left behind when their husbands were sent to war.
        She took part in the International Studies Program at Columbia University, interviewed Madame Chiang Kai-shek and in 1947 joined the foreign desk staff in New York. She reported on the fledgling United Nations and its agencies in Lake Success, N.Y., the interim headquarters of the organization.
        She was reassigned in 1948 as a general-assignment and police reporter for the city desk.
        She took a leave of absence the following year when the State Department appointed her as an information officer with the United States Information Service at Cairo. Later postings took her to Japan and to Kenya, which at the time was a British colony, where her future husband was a legislator and owner of a 100,000-acre ranch near Mount Kenya.
        In 1963 Kenya achieved independence, and Lord Enniskillen succeeded to his title and moved to claim the seat of his earldom in Northern Ireland. He was in turn succeeded by a son from a previous marriage to the late Sonia Syers, Andrew John Galbraith Cole, now the 7th Earl of Enniskillen.
        Lady Enniskillen left no immediate survivors.
      