
        Augusta Braxston Baker, a spellbinding storyteller, editor and former custodian of the children's section at the New York Public Library, died on Feb. 23 at Baptist Medical Center in Columbia, S.C. A Columbia resident since 1980, she was 86 and formerly lived in St. Albans, Queens.
        Mrs. Baker was associated with the New York Public Library for 37 years, until her retirement in 1974 as coordinator of children's services and supervisor of storytelling for all its branches. She also conducted a weekly broadcast, ''The World of Children's Literature,'' on WNYC radio in the 1970's and continued as a visiting lecturer on library sciences at Columbia University until 1979.
        After moving to the South, she became the storyteller in residence at the University of South Carolina.  Columbia established a yearly storytelling festival in her honor in 1987,  called ''A(ugusta) Baker's Dozen,'' and the Association of Library Services to Children of the American Library Association in 1993 cited her for a Distinguished Services Award, its highest tribute to a member.
        Mrs. Baker was admired as someone who could enchant children and their parents alike. Over the years she also reviewed children's books for The New York Times and was a  judge of its Book Review's list of best-illustrated books.
        In 1941, she printed her first listing of books about black life. Teachers and librarians kept it current as a guide for all library visitors. Mrs. Baker usually reviewed about 150 to 200 books for her list.
        She was a past chairwoman of the Newbery Caldecott Committee, which bestows medals each year on the authors and illustrators of the children's books deemed the most distinguished. With Ellin Greene, she wrote ''Storytelling: Art and Technique.''
        Mrs. Baker suggested that a parent start with books of folk and fairy tales to be retold while sitting comfortably on a living room rug or under a shade tree in the park, preferably without interruptions. It is the voice that counts, she said, and it  must be pleasing, flexible and enthusiastic enough to add drama to the story line, though overly dramatic gestures ought to be avoided.
        ''Naturally, we try to entertain:  that is the heart of all storytelling,'' she told an interviewer in 1955. ''But our initial purpose is to teach the child to listen. Through this approach we try to strengthen his literary awareness.''
        She was born in Baltimore and graduated in 1933 from what is now the State University of New York at Albany, where she received a degree in library science the next year.
        She joined the New York Public Library in 1937 as a children's librarian for its Countee Cullen Branch in Harlem.
        While at the Harlem branch she helped build its James Weldon Johnson Collection of quality books about the black experience and in 1946 compiled a bibliography, ''Books About Negro Life for Children.''
        She advanced to the main branch in 1961 as assistant coordinator and storytelling expert and was named  coordinator of children's services in 1961.
        She was divorced from her first husband, James Henry Baker Jr., who died in 1956. Her second husband, Gordon Alexander, died in 1987 after 43 years of marriage.
        She is survived by a son, James Henry Baker 3d of Columbia, and two granddaughters.
      