
        Kay Coltoff, a social worker and educator who used her own illness to make things easier for breast cancer survivors, died on March 5 at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 61 and had been a professional-development counselor at Hunter College.
        In a career in which she worked as a social worker at hospitals, community centers and drug treatment programs before turning to teaching, Mrs. Coltoff, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., who graduated from Emerson College and received her master's in social work from Adelphi University, may have done her most inspired work simply because she developed breast cancer in 1981.
        It led her to recognize that in the face of a devastating disease, those with breast cancer need more than medical help; they need psychological and practical support from women who have been there.
        Curiously, Mrs. Coltoff seemed to have needed it less than most. She had such an optimistic outlook that her surgeon asked if he could refer other patients to her.
        Over the next few years, as she underwent one of the first lumpectomies and later a full mastectomy, Mrs. Coltoff provided informal counseling to so many grateful women that in 1988 she formed a support group that continues to hold weekly meetings in her hometown.
        It was hardly a radical idea. Since the late 1960's, for example, the American Cancer Society has operated a program in which breast cancer survivors visit patients in hospitals. Still, in forming a group in which survivors help each other,  Mrs. Coltoff was part of a nationwide  grass-roots movement.
        She dropped out of her group after a couple of years, but the knowledge that it was there was a continuing solace, especially after she learned that her cancer had spread. Just a few days before she died, 11 women gathered around her bed to provide a final measure of comfort to a woman who had helped make their own lives easier.
        Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      