
        Betsey Cushing Roosevelt Whitney, the widow of John Hay (Jock) Whitney, the first wife of James Roosevelt and the last of the three glamorous Cushing sisters of Boston, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 89.
        Mrs. Whitney was one of the most prestigious figures in New York society, although she disliked publicity and rarely attended large social gatherings. When she did appear at an event, it was considered a coup.
        In recent years, in failing health, Mrs. Whitney, a prominent philanthropist in medicine and art, spent most of her time at Greentree, one of the most magnificent private residences in the country, situated on 438 acres in Manhasset, on Long Island's Gold Coast. There, surrounded by an important Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art collection, gardens and greenhouses, Mrs. Whitney was looked after by 20 employees.
        Mrs. Whitney was the second-born of the three Cushing sisters, who were renowned in the 1930's and 40's for their brilliant marriages into some of the most prominent families in the country. She inherited the bulk of one of the great American fortunes when Jock Whitney -- sportsman, financier, publisher of The New York Herald Tribune, philanthropist, political mover and shaker, and Ambassador to Britain -- died in 1982. In 1990, Forbes magazine estimated her wealth at $700 million.
        Practicing the Art Of Marrying Well
        From their debutante days, she and her sisters were celebrated by society chroniclers for their beauty and charm. Her older sister, Mary (Minnie) Cushing, was married to Vincent Astor, the wealthy real estate owner, and after a divorce, to James Whitney Fosburgh, an artist. She died in 1978 at 72. Barbara (Babe) Cushing, the youngest, was married to Stanley Mortimer Jr., a grandson of one of the founders of Standard Oil, and after a divorce, to William S. Paley, the legendary founder and chairman of the Columbia Broadcasting System.
        Babe Paley, a perennial name on the world's best-dressed list and a glittering figure in society, also died in 1978, at 62, four months before her older sister.
        Betsey Maria Cushing was born in Baltimore on May 18, 1908. Her father was Dr. Harvey Cushing, a neurosurgeon who was a professor of surgery at various times at Johns Hopkins, Harvard and Yale Universities. Her mother was Katherine Crowell Cushing, of a socially prominent family in Cleveland.
        Dr. Cushing was a stern father, and Mrs. Whitney later recalled that ''perfectionism was drummed into us.'' The social skills that she learned at Miss May's, a private day school in Boston, and at the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn., were burnished by her mother, who made certain that her daughters excelled in the arts of entertaining and running a household as prerequisites for the advantageous marriages she was determined they would have.
        David Grafton, the author of the 1992 book ''The Sisters: The Lives and Times of the Fabulous Cushing Sisters'' (Villard Books), wrote that Katherine Cushing once told a gossip columnist that she expected her girls ''to marry into the highest level of European nobility or into America's moneyed aristocracy.''
        There were also two brothers, William and Henry, neither of whom survives.
        Although marriage into the Roosevelt family did not apparently meet her highest expectations, it merited no objections. Betsey Cushing met James Roosevelt, the eldest son of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt, when she was 22.
        They married at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Brookline, Mass., on June 5, 1930, two days before the bridegroom's graduation from Harvard. Five hundred leaders of the social and political worlds of Boston and New York watched the bride, in a floor-length gown of silver lame, exchange vows with the son of the Governor of New York and his wife. Elliott Roosevelt was his brother's best man, and two other brothers, Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. and John A. Roosevelt, were among the ushers. Minnie Cushing was the maid of honor, and Babe Cushing was a bridesmaid.
        As a young married woman, Betsey Cushing Roosevelt ''could be imperious,'' the fashion photographer Horst P. Horst later told Mr. Paley's biographer, Sally Bedell Smith. But,  Ms. Smith wrote, ''Fortunately, Betsey redeemed herself with a rollicking sense of humor and an ability to kick up her heels.''
        Not Exactly a Favorite Of Eleanor Roosevelt
        The young Roosevelts spent their early married life living with the Cushings, while the bridegroom studied law at the Boston University Law School. When Mr. Roosevelt went into the insurance business, the couple bought a house and property in Framingham, Mass. After his father became President of the United States and chose him as an aide, the couple lived in Georgetown.
        The young Mrs. Roosevelt was said to be the President's favorite daughter-in-law, but she enjoyed no such preference from Eleanor Roosevelt and was, in turn, not fond of her mother-in-law. ''The two women were simply too strong and too different in personal style and social preferences,'' Mr. Grafton wrote.
        Betsey Roosevelt was often the hostess at the White House when Eleanor Roosevelt was absent. She was in the forefront on a summer day in 1939 when the President entertained King George VI and Queen Elizabeth at a picnic in Hyde Park, N.Y., at which the King ate his first hot dog. Later that day, when the President took the King and Queen for a drive along the Hudson River, the President asked Betsey Roosevelt to go along for company in the car.
        Always family-conscious, she enhanced Babe Cushing's debutante season by giving a tea dance at the White House as a second coming-out party. She also introduced Minnie Cushing to Vincent Astor, and the two were married in 1940 after Mr. Astor divorced his first wife.
        Even as a member of the President's circle, Betsey Roosevelt preferred a private life, and she did her best to shield her two daughters, Sara and Kate, from the public eye.
        In November 1938, James Roosevelt left the Government and went to Hollywood to work in the movie business as an aide to Samuel Goldwyn. His wife followed him, but they separated, and early in 1940 it was disclosed that they were to be divorced. Mr. Roosevelt filed for divorce on grounds of desertion, and his wife filed a cross-complaint on grounds of desertion and cruelty.
        In March 1940, Mrs. Roosevelt obtained a divorce decree. She was given custody of the children, child support, a settlement and further payments until she remarried.
        Mr. Roosevelt went on to become a decorated Marine officer in World War II, a six-term Congressman from California and a delegate to the United Nations during the Johnson Administration. He died in 1991.
        Early in 1942, rumors of a romance between Betsey Cushing Roosevelt and Jock Whitney began circulating in New York, Boston and Washington. He had been divorced in 1940 after 10 years of marriage to the former Mary Elizabeth Altemus.
        The couple were married in a small, informal ceremony on March 1, 1942, in her widowed mother's East 86th Street apartment. The bride was 33 and the bridegroom 37.
        After a honeymoon at Greenwood Plantation in Thomasville, Ga., one of Mr. Whitney's many residences, the newlyweds moved to Washington, where he ran the motion picture division of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, headed by Nelson A. Rockefeller. Mr. Whitney later joined the Air Force, rose to colonel, was a German prisoner for 18 days in 1944 before escaping and got several decorations.
        In 1949, Mr. Whitney adopted his wife's two daughters. The Whitneys moved to London in 1957, when President Eisenhower named Mr. Whitney Ambassador to the Court of St. James's. Mrs. Whitney renewed her friendship with the Queen Mother, whom she had met on the 1939 visit to America. Both Ambassador and Mrs. Whitney became close to Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip.
        Mrs. Whitney spent a good deal of her time making the Whitney residences comfortable and welcoming. In his book, Mr. Grafton quoted a friend of hers as saying, ''The Jock Whitneys are just about as 'down-to-earth' as any people can be with a quarter of a billion dollars.''
        White House Is Nice, But It's No Greentree
        The residences that Mrs. Whitney had at her disposal over the years included, in addition to Greentree on Long Island and the plantation in Georgia, a town house and an elegant apartment in Manhattan; a large summer house on Fishers Island near New London, Conn.; a 12-room house in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., which the Whitneys used when they attended horse races there; a golfing cottage in Augusta, Ga., and a spacious house in Surrey, England, not far from the Ascot racecourse.
        E. J. Kahn, Mr. Whitney's biographer, reported that years later one of the daughters, Kate, once took her own children on a tour of the White House. Mr. Kahn wrote, ''After inspecting it, they pronounced it nice enough but hardly on a par with Greentree.''
        In addition, the Whitneys shared a renowned Kentucky horse farm, which also bore the name Greentree, with Mr. Whitney's sister, Joan Whitney Payson. It was later sold.
        Mrs. Whitney established the Greentree Foundation in 1983 to assist local community groups, and she was its president. She was a benefactor of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, built in the early 1950's on 15 acres donated by Mr. Whitney and Mrs. Payson.
        Mrs. Whitney was also involved with the Museum of Modern Art, Yale University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. The Modern received eight major paintings, by artists like Utrillo, Picasso and Seurat, from Mr. Whitney's estate, and Yale received six paintings, valued at $5 million at that time. New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center received a $15 million gift.
        After her husband's death in 1982, Mrs. Whitney gave $8 million to the Yale Medical School, then the largest gift in the school's history. The National Gallery of Art got nine American and French paintings, which had been placed in a charitable trust during Mr. Whitney's lifetime. The trust also gave $2 million for acquisitions, and Mrs. Whitney chose a Toulouse-Lautrec painting from her husband's collection, ''Marcelle Lender Dancing the Bolero in 'Chilperic,' '' to give the gallery in his memory.
        Mrs. Whitney made art history in 1990 by putting up for sale, by Sotheby's, one of Renoir's most famous paintings, the sun-dappled cafe scene ''At the Moulin de la Galette.'' It brought $78.1 million, then a record auction price for Impressionist art and the second-highest price for any artwork sold at auction.
        Among Mrs. Whitney's many public activities were memberships on the boards of the Whitney Museum of American Art, the John Hay Whitney Foundation and the Association for Homemakers Service.
        She is survived by her daughters, Kate Whitney and Sara Wilford, both of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and 16 great-grandchildren.
      