
        Hilda Morley, an American poet who gained wider recognition late in life, decades after she first published her imagist free verse, died on Monday at Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, London. A former resident of Sag Harbor, N.Y., she was 81 and had moved to London last year to continue work on a biography of her late husband, the avant-garde composer Stefan Wolpe.
        The cause was liver failure after a fall at home, said a spokeswoman for her publisher, Moyer Bell.
        Ms. Morley published five books of poetry in which she articulated emotions and feelings in free verse, but a type of verse as measured as dance  or music. She was a ''master of that ability,'' Robert Creeley, a fellow poet, said.
        She wrote that her poetry was shaped by the visions of Abstract Expressionism, which can create metamorphoses. Artists like Klee and Picasso, she said, gave her the means to create word canvases depicting the world around her.
        Born Hilda Auerbach in Manhattan, Ms. Morley considered herself an inhabitant of the world. She was educated in New York, Haifa (in what was then known as Palestine), London and at Wellesley College, Ohio State University and New York University.
        Along the way she taught English at a private school in England and at Walden School in New York, where she also worked as a researcher for the Zionist Youth Commission and as a Hebrew translator for the Office of War Information.
        Starting in the 1940's, she intermittently lectured at Rutgers University. After her marriage in 1952, she taught English literature at Black Mountain College in North Carolina. Once recognized as a poet, she took academic assignments, lecturing, leading poetry workshops and judging poetry. She was a resident poet at Northeast Missouri University in 1992.
        Ms. Morley is survived by a stepdaughter, Katherina Wolpe of London.
        The first collection of her previously published poetry was ''A Blessing Outside Us'' (1976). It was followed by three others that remain in print: ''What Are Winds and What Are Waters'' (1993), ''To Hold in My Hand: Selected Poems, 1953-83'' (1984) and ''Cloudless at First'' (1988).
        Her final collection was ''The Turning,'' which has just been published. It includes ''Fiesta, Ibiza,'' her evocation of a place she savored:
        Warm crystal
        of my little
        city;
        the fishes
        swim over the bay,
        rooftops swooping
        with light,
        the wreaths & garlands
        bursting gently
        in night's element,
        the sunlit branches
        exploding
        softly,
        the sea baring
        its lights
        burning
        the unshadowed joys
      