
        Dr. Alma Hawkins, a pioneering modern-dance educator who founded the dance department at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Jan. 8 at her home in Santa Monica. She was 94.
        Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to study at Teachers College, Columbia University, where she became interested in modern dance. She trained in dance at Bennington College and in Colorado before earning master's and doctor's degrees at Columbia.
        She taught at Emporia State University in Kansas and George Williams College in Chicago before joining the dance program at U.C.L.A.; she was its chairwoman from 1953 to her retirement in 1977.
        In 1962, Dr. Hawkins established an autonomous dance department, equal in status to the departments of art, music and theater arts, at the College of Fine Arts at the university.
        According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
        Dr. Hawkins encouraged the establishment of an interdepartmental program in ethnic arts that later became the world arts and cultures program. She worked closely with dance presenters to bring leading American and foreign troupes to perform at Royce Hall at the university.
        In 1967, she formed the Council of Dance Administrators, a product of a national conference on dance sponsored by the arts and humanities division of the United States Office of Education.
        The council published ''Standards for Dance Major Programs'' of colleges in 1979, leading to a national dance certification program. Also in 1967, Dr. Hawkins founded the West Coast Dance Film Archives. She later founded the national Council of Graduate Dance/Movement Therapy Educators.
        Dr. Hawkins was a dance therapist and researcher at the university's Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1960 to 1977, training dance therapists and creating a series of educational research films about the field. On her retirement from U.C.L.A., Dr. Hawkins taught for more than 10 years in the dance department at Santa Monica College.
        She is survived by her sister, Alice Hawkins of Santa Monica, Calif.
      