
        Celestine Tate Harrington, a quadriplegic street musician whose buoyant personality and unremitting chutzpah brought astounded smiles to everyone who watched her play the keyboard with her lips and tongue on Atlantic City's Boardwalk, died on Feb. 25 at the Atlantic City Medical Center. She was 42.
        She died of complications resulting from critical injuries she suffered in a traffic accident on Feb. 19.
        Mrs. Harrington was born with a congenital joint condition that eroded the connective tissue in her arms and legs, leaving them immobile stubs, but she never seemed to consider herself disabled. Her daily street performances in front of Bally's Park Place Casino and Caesar's Palace, where she performed ''Amazing Grace'' and ''Stormy Weather'' on an electric synthesizer, were studies not only in the art of music, but also in the art human self-salvation.
        Mrs. Harrington was born in the Germantown section of Philadelphia, and her father abandoned her when she was 6 years old, family members and a friend said.
        Raised by her maternal grandparents, a construction worker and a registered nurse, she eventually became a parent herself. In 1974, in downtown Philadelphia, she met John Smith, a nursing home aide who courted her while she lived at the Moss Rehabilitation Clinic in Philadelphia. She bore him a daughter, Nia, in 1975, but before the couple could marry, Mr. Smith died.
        The death led the courts to seek custody of Nia. Mrs. Harrington won the right to raise her child in 1976 by demonstrating to a dumbstruck judge what she could manage: she changed the baby's diaper with her teeth.
        Three years later, she met a construction worker, Stanford Williams. In 1979, they, too, had a daughter, Coronda, but never married.
        Mrs. Harrington learned to play the keyboard at Philadelphia's Settlement Music School. Soon afterward, she decided to take her newfound skill downtown, where she played for change on the sidewalk in front of Wanamaker's department store. But Atlantic City -- bustling with tourists and extra change -- beckoned. She arrived on the Boardwalk in 1984, and she eventually moved into a condominium in Atlantic City purchased with the proceeds from her busking.
        She often boasted that as much as $100,000 a year was dropped into her plastic bucket, though friends and relatives gently dispute that claim.
        Though Mrs. Harrington eventually started a tiny enterprise designing business cards, her main interest was her music, and her repertoire of solemn ballads like ''Somewhere Over the Rainbow,'' and patriotic hymns like ''America the Beautiful,'' quickly made her a redemptive presence in a gambling town. They also won her a following among the Boardwalk's casual strollers.
        By 1989, Mrs. Harrington was a beloved presence, partly because of the remarkable figure she cut: a 4-foot, 10-inch tall, 190-pound woman moving swiftly, lying on her stomach, head up, , through the city streets on a motorized gurney that she guided with a steering device worked by her chin. But she was also known for the inspirational message she spread as a guest on national talk shows or to people she met on the Boardwalk with whom she formed close relationships.
        Among them was her husband, Roy Harrington, a casino maintenance man who came along in 1990. In the next year, the couple married and adopted Charles Graves, the son of a former boyfriend.
        In addition to her husband and three children, Mrs. Harrington is survived by two sisters, Agnes Tate-Sanders and Tamogene Tate, both of Philadelphia, and a brother, Jay-Cee Tate of North Carolina.
        Another person that Mrs. Harrington befriended was Camille LeClair, co-owner of a McDonald's restaurant in Atlantic City who hired her last year to take phone deliveries.
        A poignant memory of Mrs. Harrington was on her mind last week when word came that she had died. On one occasion when Mrs. Harrington was in her house, Mrs. LeClair said: ''I hopped in the shower and when I came back I said to Celestine, 'Why does God allow me to jump in and out of the shower in 10 minutes, but you have to struggle so much?'  Well, Celestine just looked at me and said, 'That's why I'm here. To keep reminding you to count your blessings every day.' ''
      