
        Beatrice Wood, a ceramic artist known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luminous luster-glaze chalices, and who  inspired at least two movie characters, died on Thursday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She had celebrated her 105th birthday on March 3.
        An independent woman inclined to say whatever was on her mind, Ms. Wood famously attributed her longevity to ''chocolate and young men'' and just as memorably titled her 1985 autobiography ''I Shock Myself.'' In fact she was a lifelong vegetarian who neither smoked nor drank and remained clear-minded enough to take up the computer at the age of 90.
        Until two years ago, she worked at the potter's wheel every day, following a strict daily regimen in a studio that was listed under ''Places of Interest'' in Ojai. A member of the Theosophy movement since 1923, she had moved to Ojai in 1948 to be near its leader, the Indian sage Krishnamurti. For the last four decades of her life, she dressed exclusively in bright Indian saris and wore large amounts of silver-and-turquoise jewelry, even when throwing pots, with her thick, hip-length gray hair twisted into braids or a bun.
        She was born in San Francisco and  reared in New York, and demonstrated an early affinity for art and nonconformity, much to the dismay of wealthy parents. She once said that she was 23 before she got free of her mother and her lady's maid, but she was allowed to go, chaperoned, to Paris when she was 18, where she studied painting at the Academie Julien and acting at the Comedie Francaise. Back in New York she fell in with some of the most adventurous artistic characters in town.
        Her friends included Man Ray, Francis Picabia, Charles Sheeler, Walter and Louise Arensberg, Edgard Varese and Mina Loy. She was closest to Marcel Duchamp and his friend, the diplomat and writer Henri-Pierre Roche. The three founded  Blind Man, a magazine that was one of the earliest manifestations of the Dada art movement in New York. (In the second and last issue, Ms. Wood defended Duchamp's infamous  urinal, rejected by the jury of the 1917 Independents exhibition, with a sentence usually attributed to Duchamp himself: ''The only works of art America has given are her plumbing and her bridges.'') Duchamp encouraged her to draw; the results were fey, often autobiographical caricatures.
        Her life was already the stuff of movies. Roche's novel about a menage a trois, ''Jules et Jim,'' would inspire Francois Truffaut's 1961 movie of the same name, with the character played by Jeanne Moreau based in part on Ms. Wood. In 1993, she was the subject of a documentary, ''Beatrice Wood, the Mama of Dada,'' directed by Diandra Douglas. And more recently, she inspired the 101-year-old character of Rose in the movie ''Titanic,'' directed by James Cameron, a neighbor in Ojai.
        Ms. Wood liked to say that she had loved seven men she didn't marry and married two men she didn't love,  saying that neither marriage was consummated. Her first, in 1919, to a theater manager from Montreal, resulted from family pressure and soon ended in annulment when it was discovered that the man already had a wife in Belgium. In 1938, while living in Los Angeles, she married Steve Hoag, an engineer, after a house they owned together in North Hollywood was swept away in a flood, on the correct theory that married people were likely to get Red Cross relief more easily. He lived with her until his death in 1960.
        She was a late-bloomer as an artist and did not encounter ceramics until the 1930's, when she failed to find a teapot to match some neo-Rococo luster-glaze plates she had bought in Holland.
        She enrolled in a pottery course at Hollywood High School, and began to research the luster-glaze process in a local library.
        She never made that teapot, but became fascinated with the process.  Her first works -- small glazed figures whose whimsy echoed her drawings -- sold easily, helping her make it through the Depression. It was not until 1940, when she studied  briefly with the Austrian ceramicists Gertrud and Otto Natzler, that she began to appreciate the beauty and possibilities of ceramics as an art form.
        After settling in Ojai in 1948, she began develop her own version of the unpredictable luster glaze technique, extending a process that embedded the metallic irridescence in the glaze itself, rather than painting it on. While she didn't invent the technique, she did create a unique palette in an extraordinary range of metallic pinks, golds and greens.
        At first Ms. Wood supported herself by turning out large quantities of dinner sets, but after the mid 1970's, she was able to concentrate exclusively on more ambitious decorative vessels: chalices, bowls and vases. Her most complex pieces, which had elaborately decorated surfaces,  came only after the mid-1980's, when she was in her 90's. These elaborate, radiant works dominate her most recent retrospective, held last year at the American Craft Museum in New York. The show opens in Florida at the Lake Worth Museum of Contemporary Art on March 27.
        Ms. Wood had her first exhibition in 1949 at America House in New York. Her museum exhibitions include a retrospective at the Phoenix Art Museum in 1973. Since 1981, she has had repeated exhibitions at the Garth Clark Gallery, first in Los Angeles and then in New York, where an exhibition of her work will close on April 4.
        In 1994, the Smithsonian Institution named Ms. Wood an Esteemed American Artist and Pete Wilson, Governor of California, declared her a ''California Living Treasure.''
      