
        Ilse Bing, one of the few surviving members of the fabled group of avant-garde artists who gathered in Paris in the early 1930's and produced brilliantly unorthodox and inventive photography, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 98 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        Susan Arthur Whitson, director of the Edwynn Houk Gallery, which represents her work, said that the gallery had hoped that Ms. Bing would attend the March 26 opening of a retrospective of her work titled ''Ilse Bing: Vision of a Century.'' She would have been 99 on March 23.
        Born into an affluent bourgeois family in Frankfurt, Ms. Bing was trained in music and art. It was while she was pursuing a doctorate in art history and photographing buildings for her dissertation that she developed a passion for photography. In early 1929 she began to do picture essays for the weekly supplement of a Frankfurt newspaper, becoming one of the few women to work in photojournalism at the time.
        She soon abandoned her studies to become an artist and decided to leave for Paris in the summer of 1929 after seeing an exhibition of photographs by the Paris-based Florence Henri, who had embraced New Photography, which was characterized by extreme close-ups, unusual angles, high and low vantage points, and the rendering of everyday objects and reflected surfaces as abstract geometric forms.
        Paris in the 1920's and 30's was home to modernists like Henri, who saw photography as the medium to revolutionize visual language in everything from photojournalism and commercial advertising to fashion and book illustration. Working intuitively and with no regard for conventional composition or subject matter, these modern photographers were above all entranced by the new sensations of urban living.
        The only professional photographer in Paris in the 30's to work exclusively with the Leica, Ms. Bing mastered the use of this small camera as well as darkroom techniques to show the subtleties of light and movement against the inky blacks of Paris at night. She favored the overhead shots and tilted angles of German Constructivists, but her photographs are often infused with the softer, more lyrical and humanistic qualities found in the work of many French photographers.
        Like Andre Kertesz and Henri Cartier-Bresson, she caught the spare, lovely geometries in ordinary Parisian life. She photographed nighttime Paris, using available light and producing images that were studies of light and deep shadow. Accidentally in the darkroom, and independently of Man Ray, she discovered a way to solarize the negative instead of the print, giving the image black outlines created from the controlled use of light during printing. Her solarized images of street scenes, especially at night, are magical coaxings of many shades of gray out of darkness.
        Ms. Bing worked for magazines like Vu, Arts et Metiers Graphiques and Le Monde Illustre. She did fashion assignments for Harper's Bazaar and Schiaparelli. Her photographs were regularly shown during the 30's at La Pleiade gallery in Paris, alongside the work of other members of the photographic avant-garde.
        In 1936, she was included in the first modern photography exhibition held at the Louvre. The next year she was part of the landmark photography exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Ms. Bing's best-known photograph from this period is a strikingly original self-portrait. To create this fractured image, she photographed a mirrored image of herself -- one bent arm leaning against a table, a Leica on a tripod positioned in front of one eye -- with a side view of herself reflected in another mirror.
        When Ms. Bing visited New York in 1936, she was offered a position on the fledgling photo magazine Life. But she turned down the offer because her future husband, Konrad Wolff, a pianist and musicologist, lived in Paris. They married in 1937. Both were German Jews and were interned briefly as enemy aliens by the Vichy Government in 1940, but both managed to get themselves freed. Later that year, they sailed for New York, where they remained for the rest of their lives. Mr. Wolff died in 1989. No immediate family members survive. A memorial service will be held at the National Arts Club at 15 Gramercy Park South on April 2 at 3 P.M.
        In March 1993, Ms. Bing was awarded the first Gold Medal for photography by the National Arts Club in Manhattan. She told an interviewer from The New York Times that she had given up photography in 1959 because ''everything moves, nothing stays and I should not hold on.'' Ms. Bing next turned to poetry, creating what she called ''snapshots without a camera.'' She also made collages with old photographs and objects, and illustrated whimsical books on etymology and on numbers. And she groomed dogs for a living.
        Ms. Bing was, Ms. Whitson said, ''very sharp, very funny and very active -- she took up the motorcycle when she was in her 70's.''
      