
        Baroness Lestor of Eccles, a crusading British politician who spoke out against apartheid in defiance of her Government's policies and who struck a blow on behalf of single mothers when she won the right to adopt two children on her own, died in a hospice in London on Friday. She was 66 and had been suffering from motor neurone disease.
        Lady Lestor had two great causes in her life: the fight against racism and the fight for the rights of children, and was never afraid to criticize her party when she disagreed with its policies.
        She was briefly chairman of the Labor Party in 1977-78 and served as a junior minister in several Labor Governments in the early 1970's, but was perhaps too uncompromising in her beliefs to rise to a higher office. She was, an admirer once said, ''the heart and soul of the Labor Party.''
        Joan Lestor was born on Nov. 13, 1931, in Vancouver, British Columbia, to parents steeped in the international labor movement. Her mother, Esther, had been a machinist in a textile factory in East London who, as a teen-ager, became a shop steward for the garment workers' union; her father, Charles, a journalist and actor, was a leading member of the Canadian Socialist Party and later, when the family returned to England, of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.
        Ms. Lestor graduated from London University with a diploma in sociology and went to work as a nursery school teacher, opening a nursery school in her own home six years later. At the same time she pursued a career in politics. Disillusioned by what she considered the extremism of her father's party, she joined Labor at the age of 24, won several local elections and was elected to Parliament in 1966. She remained there, with a four-year break, until 1997.
        She immediately threw herself into the issues that consumed her, introducing a bill to tighten regulations on nursery schools and providers of child care; fighting the Government's attempt to stop paying social security benefits to unwed mothers, and working to insure that abandoned wives could obtain financial support from their husbands.
        She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.''
        Her jobs in the Labor Governments of Harold Wilson and James Callaghan often became jeopardized by the rigor of her principles. In 1974, when she was appointed a junior minister in the Foreign Office with special responsibility for African affairs, she earned the nickname ''the African Queen'' and repeatedly clashed with her superiors over her strong anti-apartheid views.
        Ms. Lestor was then moved to a ministerial job in the Education Department. But she resigned after a year in protest over spending cuts that threatened the jobs of thousands of teachers and forced the postponement of her goal to change the age when students left state-financed secondary schools to 16, from 15.
        With the Conservatives in power through the 1980's and into the 1990's, Ms. Lestor worked as the opposition's chief spokeswoman on a number of issues, including children and the family, juvenile crime and race relations. She resigned from her last opposition post, as spokeswoman for overseas development, in 1996, saying that she was too ill to continue.
        In 1997 she was made a Baroness and elevated to the House of Lords.
        A flamboyant, warmhearted woman who listed her hobbies in Who's Who as ''playing with children and animals,'' Lady Lestor relished adversarial politics and was not shy about telling people what she thought, in the plainest possible language.
        When she heard that Rupert Allason, a fellow Member of Parliament and an espionage expert, was about to accuse her publicly of spying for the K.G.B., she confronted him and showered him with invective. ''Perhaps I used words no lady should,'' she conceded later.
        She was married briefly as a teen-ager in 1948, but the marriage was dissolved and she never remarried. She wanted children, nonetheless, and fought for the right to adopt them herself, despite being single.
        When she won her case, she cried with happiness, and went on to adopt her son, David, in 1967, and her daughter, Susan, in 1969. She loved being a grandmother, and caused roars of laughter in Parliament when she announced, in a wicked nod at Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who had grandly used the royal ''we'' in noting the birth of her first grandchild, that ''we too became a grandmother.''
        When she received her peerage, she said she celebrated by baking muffins for her grandchildren; having them, she said, was ''even better than being in love.''
      