
        Sister Bernadette Szymczak, who fought hunger and despair with such loving zeal that she turned a tiny Brooklyn food program into a mighty engine of sustenance and hope, died Monday at Long Island College Hospital. She was 76 and, until six months ago, had been getting up at 5 A.M. to stir the soup and poor people's spirits as the hands-on founding director of St. John's Bread and Life Soup Kitchen.
        Friends said the cause was stomach cancer.
        On paper, the soup kitchen Sister Bernadette founded in 1982 at the old red-brick campus of St. John's University on Lewis Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant would seem impressive enough. The 1,000 or so hot meals it serves each weekday in the old priests' dining hall make it the largest of the 1,000 emergency food kitchens and pantries that distribute about 60 million meals a year to New York City's poor.
        And its array of medical, job placement, adult education and other satellite programs have won it a reputation as a model of its kind.
        But to those who knew Sister Bernadette and fell under her spell, the numbers hardly measure her impact on the lives of those most food agencies regard as clients and Sister Bernadette knew only as guests.
        ''She turned my life around,'' said Bill Baker, a one-time drug addict and petty criminal, recalling yesterday that his road to personal salvation began one freezing January day a few years ago when he stopped by St. John's for a warming cup of coffee and was approached by Sister Bernadette.
        Speaking with a distinct Boston accent, she posed the question that would change his life: ''Would you mind helping with the trays?''
        Like countless other street toughs before and after him, Mr. Baker, who had just got out of jail, found himself on his feet taking the first steps with a load of trays that would lead him  into Sister Bernadette's world of service before self.
        ''The next day I came in a little earlier,'' he said, recalling the beginning of a slow, often-painful process that would, under Sister Bernadette's gentle goading, lead him to become a full-time volunteer, to abandon drugs and, finally, to join the kitchen's small staff.
        ''She never gave up on me,'' he said.
        A loving tenacity seemed to be the hallmark of a woman whose guests, not always the most stable of sorts, would sometimes become so disruptive she would throw them out, then welcome them back the next day.
        To most of the guests, however, she was a warm and cordial woman who knew the regulars by name, inquired after their children and set such an inspiring standard of scurrying service that it is hardly surprising that the kitchen's two-dozen scurrying volunteers are all former guests.
        To the volunteers she was also cordial, unless they became too boisterous, in which case they would see the stern side of a woman who brooked no nonsense when it came to helping those in need.
        A native of Boston who was orphaned as a child, Bernadette Szymczak (pronounced SIM-zak) lived for a while in a home operated by the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent DePaul, the order she later joined. By the time she got to Brooklyn in 1971, she had spent 25 years working with children in homes in Boston, Buffalo and Philadelphia.
        For a few years after she and other members of the order established themselves in Brooklyn, at the request of the Vincentian priests who run St. John's parish, there seemed little need for a soup kitchen.
        The once prosperous neighborhood had descended into poverty, but Food Stamps and other Great Society programs had all but eliminated hunger in Bedford-Stuyvesant and elsewhere, so much so that by 1980 only about 50 small soup kitchens were being operated in New York City.
        Then came the Reagan Administration cutbacks of 1981, and as the need for food began to soar, Sister Bernadette, who had already established a thrift shop and an adult education program, started the soup kitchen, initially serving 15 or so meals a day.
        Over the next decade and a half, as the slender woman in the plain blue habit grew frail in her work, she became a neighborhood heroine. As she walked along some of the city's meanest streets, layabouts would rise from their stoops, the faces of hardened young criminals would soften and she would be besieged with offers of assistance.
        For all her charity, Sister Bernadette, whose idea of a hobby was to do a bit of sewing, then give her handiwork away, was not completely above a taste for luxury.
        Friends who knew her weakness would take her out for a breakfast of pancakes or bring her a treat from McDonald's.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      