
        Sister Jogues Egan, a former provincial superior and college administrator in the Order of the Sacred Heart of Mary and an associate dean at Empire State College who briefly went to jail for her antiwar convictions in 1971, died on Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. She was 79 and had lived at Marymount Convent in Tarrytown, N.Y., since her retirement in 1992.
        She suffered a brief illness, according to the order's Provincial Center in Tarrytown, which serves the Northeastern United States.
        The Irish-born Sister Jogues (pronounced zhogs) was the Superior of Eastern American Province when the Government sought to link her to the so-called Kissinger plot involving the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan and other Roman Catholic peace protesters. The Government charged that the group, called the Harrisburg Six, had conspired to blow up Federal property in Washington and to kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, then the national security adviser in the Nixon Administration.
        Sister Jogues was ordered to testify before a Federal grand jury about any knowledge she might have had of the matter, but she refused. Termed an unindicted co-conspirator, she was sent to prison by a Federal judge in Harrisburg, Pa., who found her guilty of contempt of court.
        Sister Jogues asserted in court that the questions put to her stemmed from illegal wiretaps placed by Federal agents on the religious order's telephones as far away as its headquarters in Rome. An appeals court ordered her released after three days, finding that her argument merited consideration; she was spared further prosecution.
        She was born Johanna Egan in County Leitrim and studied at the Convent of the Sacred Heart of Mary in County Antrim before coming to the United States. She graduated with a degree in French from Marymount College, earned an M.A. in French from McGill University in Montreal and a Ph.D. in French from Laval University in Quebec.
        She entered the order at Marymount in 1936 and made her final vows there in 1943, taking the name  of St. Isaac Jogues, a French Jesuit martyr. By then, she had begun her teaching career in New York and California, with an emphasis on French language and literature.
        She was named an assistant professor at Marymount College in 1944. She subsequently worked as principal of Marymount Academy in Tarrytown, academic dean of Marymount College, president of Marymount College in Boca Raton, Fla., and, from 1964 to 1966, president of Marymount Manhattan College on East 71st Street.
        She then served as provincial superior and, after her term expired, became Professor Egan at Empire State College-State University of New York in 1972. Over the next 20 years, she was an associate dean and professor of cultural studies and French literature.
        Sister Jogues is survived by a sister, Kate Egan Neville of Wexford, Ireland.
      