
        Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival reigns as the world's oldest living person.
        Mrs. Cormier, who had no birth certificate but traced her birth date through family records to Nov. 9, 1879, was 118 when she died two minutes before midnight on Tuesday at a nursing home in Crowley, La.
        Mrs. Meilleur, who had a birth certificate and other proofs of age that qualified her for the oldest living person listing in the Guinness Book of World Records, was 117 when she died on Thursday afternoon at a nursing home in North Bay, Ontario.
        Both women had received considerable attention during the last decade of parallel lives that had been devoted almost exclusively to their large families.
        When Mrs. Cormier, the daughter of former slaves, was born in New Iberia, La., during Reconstruction, Rutherford B. Hayes was President of the 38 United States and Thomas Alva Edison had just invented the electric light bulb.
        Sir John A. MacDonald, Canada's first Prime Minister, was in his second term when Mrs. Meilleur was born in Kamouraska, Quebec, on Aug. 29, 1880, 13 years after the consolidation of Canada.
        The daughter of a fisherman who operated a hotel, Mrs. Meilleur, whose maiden name was Levesque, was educated at a local convent, married a man named Leclerc and had four children before her husband died of pneumonia in the early years of the century. In 1915 she married Hector Meilleur and moved to Rapide des Joachims, Quebec, where her husband worked as a forest ranger during the summer and as a lumberman during the winter, while Mrs. Meilleur had six more children, bringing her total to 10.
        Mrs. Cormier recalled growing up at a time of such racial tension that after her family was given some land by a white woman grateful that little Felicie had nursed her through a bout of smallpox when no one else would take the job, the Ku Klux Klan drove the family away.
        She later lived in Morgan City and New Orleans, where she met her husband, Joseph Ellis Cormier, who had six children when the couple were married. Together they had seven more children, but Mrs. Cormier, who brought up all 13, refused to make a distinction between the two sets of children and claimed them all as her own.
        Mrs. Cormier, who lived in her own house in Crowley, attended only by a part-time nursing assistant, until she entered the nursing home last September, was inevitably glib during the annual spate of birthday interviews.
        In recent years this gave her something of an edge over Mrs. Meilleur, who had been virtually blind and deaf since entering the nursing home in 1989.
        Mrs. Meilleur's family, though, kept better records. In addition to four children, Gabriel Vaugh of Barrie, Olive Therrien of Peterborough, Rita Coote of Deep River and Ernie Meilleur, who lives in the same nursing home his mother lived in, Mrs. Meilleur is survived by 85 grandchildren, 80 great-grandchildren, 57 great-great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Cormier, who claimed 37 grandchildren and 100 great-grandchildren a dozen years, had since lost count, said her son, Herbert, of Crowley.
        Although she generally cited hard work as the reason for her longevity, Mrs. Meilleur, who was known to enjoy a glass of wine, had perhaps added to her life span when she quit smoking at the age of 90. Mrs. Cormier, her family said, neither smoked nor drank. She attributed her longevity to taking care of her self and going to bed early and getting up early.
        For all the public interest in longevity, the deaths of the two women suggest a trend: the world's oldest people do not seem to be as old as they used to. The last oldest person,  Jeanne Louise Calment of France, was 122 at her death last August.
      