
        The Rev. Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest, teacher and co-founder of the Greyston Mandala, an organization in Yonkers dedicated to helping the poor, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 57 and had moved last month to Santa Fe, N.M., from Yonkers.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Greyston Foundation announced.
        Ms. Holmes and her husband, Roshi Bernard Tetsugen Glassman, a Zen teacher, founded a group of nonprofit and for-profit companies and gave it the name of the Buddhist and Hindu circle of life, the mandala. As a team in meditation and activism, the couple helped renovate dilapidated buildings to house the homeless. They also aided the homeless with training, jobs in the Greyston Bakery and children's services.
        They worked with drug addicts and alcoholics, former offenders and the chronically unemployed to offer an alternative to government programs. The couple opened a building for 19 families with a day care center and access to social services in 1991. The group's for-profit bakery produces cakes, tarts and chocolate-fudge brownie chips for Ben & Jerry's ice cream and frozen yogurt.
        Ms. Holmes retired in 1996 as director of new projects at the Greyston Foundation, the umbrella organization of the Greyston Group. She and her husband then founded the Zen Peacemaking Order, an international community that pursues meditation and interfaith expression and whose headquarters they recently moved to New Mexico.
        Ms. Holmes was born in Oakland, Calif. She received a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Columbia University in 1976. After meeting Mr. Glassman in 1982, she devoted herself to Zen Buddhist study and practice. She became a Zen priest in 1983 and, four years ago, a teacher.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Guy and Audrey Holmes of Stockton, Calif., and three brothers: David, of Plattsburgh, N.Y., Vernon, of Oakland, and Warren, of Stockton.
        Correction:  April 22, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about the Rev. Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest and teacher and a co-founder of the Greyston Mandala in Yonkers, misstated the date of her death. It was March 20, not Feb. 20.
      