
        Linda Eastman McCartney, the wife of the former Beatle Paul McCartney and a photographer whose portraits of 1960's rock stars have become classics, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif., where the McCartneys were vacationing. She was 56.
        The cause was breast cancer that spread to her liver, said Geoff Baker, a family spokesman.
        Besides her work as a photographer, Ms. McCartney performed as a keyboardist and backup singer in two of her husband's post-Beatles bands, Wings and the unnamed ensemble that toured in 1989 and 1993. She was a staunch campaigner for animal rights and vegetarianism and, starting in the late 1980's, she turned her passion for vegetarian cooking into an industry. She published two cookbooks, ''Linda McCartney's Home Cooking'' in 1989 and ''Linda's Kitchen'' in 1996, and in 1991 started a line of frozen vegetarian dinners.
        As the wife of a musician who had long been a teen-age heartthrob and was the last Beatle to be married,  Ms. McCartney first attracted the ire of her husband's fans, and eventually the respect of many of them. When the McCartneys were married in London on March 12, 1969, hundreds of crying girls packed the sidewalk outside the Marylebone Register Office. Later, when she toured with Mr. McCartney, she took considerable criticism for her modest keyboard and vocal technique.
        But the McCartneys' 29-year marriage was uncommonly steady by the standards of the celebrity world of which they were a part but from which they generally remained aloof, spending most of their time on a farm in West Sussex, England. They  never spent a night apart, except for the 10 days Mr. McCartney spent in a Tokyo jail after he was arrested for marijuana possession; indeed, their disinclination to be separated was part of Mr. McCartney's reason for having his wife in his touring band.
        And Mr. McCartney, the composer of some of the rock era's most beautiful love songs, has consistently told interviewers that all his romantic  ballads written after 1968 were about Linda. Those songs include everything from ''Maybe I'm Amazed'' and ''The Lovely Linda'' on his first post-Beatles album, ''McCartney'' (1970), ''Long-Haired Lady'' on ''Ram'' (1971) and ''My Love'' on ''Red Rose Speedway'' (1973) to more recent songs like ''We Got Married'' and ''Figure of Eight'' on ''Flowers in the Dirt'' (1989) and ''Somedays'' on ''Flaming Pie'' (1997), his most recent studio album.
        Mr. McCartney was not the first to compose a song about Ms. McCartney. Her father, Lee Eastman, was a prominent show business lawyer in New York and one of his clients, Jack Lawrence, wrote ''Linda'' for her in 1947 when she was 6. Buddy Clark had a hit with the song that year, and it was later recorded by Perry Como and Jan and Dean.
        Ms. McCartney also wrote a few songs, including the reggae-style ''Seaside Woman,'' which she and Mr. McCartney released as a single in 1977 under the name Suzy and the Red Stripes, and ''The White-Coated Man,'' which she wrote with Carla Lane and released (also as Suzy and the Red Stripes) on an animal-rights charity disk, ''Animal Magnetism,'' in 1994.
        She was born Linda Louise Eastman on September 24, 1941, and grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y. As she often pointed out, without ever dispelling the assertion entirely, she was not related to the Eastmans of the Eastman-Kodak photography empire. In fact, her father had changed his name from Epstein.
        She described growing up in artistic and materialistic surroundings, with a status-conscious mother and a father whose friends and clients included the artist Willem de Kooning and the songwriters Hoagy Carmichael and Harold Arlen.
        Ms. McCartney attended Sarah Lawrence College and the University of Arizona. While a student in Arizona, she married and had a daughter, but the marriage ended in 1963.
        Soon afterward, she took up photography, and in 1965 she returned to New York, where she began photographing rock groups, starting with the Dave Clark Five and the Rolling Stones. During the next few years she befriended and photographed dozens of rock stars, including Jimi Hendrix, the Doors, the Animals, Janis Joplin, the Mamas and the Papas, Bob Dylan, Frank Zappa, the Beach Boys and the Grateful Dead. A widely reproduced picture of the Beatles that she took at a press party for the release of ''Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band'' in 1967 captured the group on the eve of its greatest artistic triumph.
        Her photographs appeared in Rolling Stone and other rock magazines, and in 1992 she published several hundred of them as a book, ''Linda McCartney's Sixties: Portrait of an Era.''
        Ms. McCartney met her future husband while photographing the Beatles in London in 1967, and the pair carried on an occasional romance for more than a year. In September 1968, Mr. McCartney asked her to move to London, from which point they became inseparable. Although she took some stunning pictures of the Beatles at work, she left most of them unpublished until she assembled her ''Sixties'' book. Her photographs of Mr. McCartney, however, adorned some of his post-Beatles album covers, and in one of his early television specials, ''James Paul McCartney,'' he is shown singing a medley of his songs while his wife did a photo shoot.
        In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
        Besides ''Sixties,'' Ms. McCartney published several other books, including ''Linda's Pictures,'' ''Sun Prints,'' ''Photographs'' and ''Road Works.'' Celebrities were by no means her only photographic subject. Plants, animals, natural patterns on rock faces and people she encountered on her travels engaged her interest and were captured with a touching refinement in many of her pictures. Her work has also been the subject of exhibitions at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Royal Photographic Society in Bath, England, and at more than 50 galleries around the world.
        Correction:  April 21, 1998, Tuesday  The obituary of the photographer Linda McCartney yesterday gave an incorrect name in some copies for the most recent studio album by her husband, the former Beatle Paul McCartney. It is ''Flaming Pie''; ''Off the Ground'' was the one before that.
        Correction:  June 11, 1998, Thursday  The obituary of Linda McCartney on April 20 misstated her college background. She attended only the University of Arizona, not Sarah Lawrence College as well. The obituary also misstated the given name of her first husband in some copies. He was Melvin See, not Bob. The errors were pointed out in E-mail received from a reader yesterday.
      