
        Florence Skelly Altman, an innovator in opinion research, died on Tuesday at Scottsdale, Ariz., Memorial Hospital. She was 73 and lived in Scottsdale.
        The cause of death was complications of heart disease, her daughter, Alexandra Altman, said.
        Ms. Skelly, as she was known professionally, was instrumental in developing many techniques that are now standard in market research, including the use of simulated test markets to estimate the potential of new products. Today, variations of the method are used by major packaged goods marketing companies such as Procter & Gamble.
        ''She had a great flair for the numbers side of the business, but saw the human implications of the numbers like no one I have ever known,'' said Daniel Yankelovich, a partner of Ms. Skelly at the opinion research firm that bore their names.
        The social implications of Ms. Skelly's work were apparent in a study of younger Americans she and Mr. Yankelovich conducted in the late 1960's, among the first to call them baby boomers.
        Arthur H. White, another partner and a professional colleague of Ms. Skelly for 50 years, said, ''The study revealed gender and race problems, that we had a society in which large segments of the population were not treated as well as other segments and that attitudes about institutions were changing.''
        ''In those studies,'' he added, ''we saw that most people did not want to accept everything an employer or the Government said.''
        Ms. Skelly had firsthand experience with sex discrimination early in her career. Mr. White recalled a meeting in the 1950's that he, Ms. Skelly and another male executive from Stewart Dougall, a New York research firm where she worked early on, were asked to attend with the board of the New York Stock Exchange. ''She had to sit outside in the hall while we, the two men, went in to talk,'' Mr. White said.
        Suffering such indignities did little to dispel what her colleagues said was an admirable disposition.
        ''She was a wonderful, witty person, very funny but serious at the same time, which is a great combination,'' Mr. Yankelovich said. ''Our clients loved her, and she loved the business.''
        Ms. Skelly, a longtime resident of New York, moved to Scottsdale in the mid-1990's. She was a graduate of Hunter College, where her senior honors paper in social psychology, based on a public opinion survey of a Y.W.H.A. project in New York, exhibited her interest in market research.
        She spent four years at Stewart Dougall, went to Washington for two years and worked on the 1950 Census, and then returned to the firm.
        In 1961 she and Mr. White left to join Mr. Yankelovich. Later in the decade, the firm of Daniel Yankelovich Inc. was renamed Yankelovich, Skelly & White. In 1986, two years after the firm was bought by the  Saatchi & Saatchi Company, the advertising concern, Mr. Yankelovich, Ms. Skelly and Mr. White left to start another firm, citing policy disagreements.
        Until her death Ms. Skelly served as vice chairwoman of the new firm, DYG Inc., based in Danbury, Conn. (Saatchi & Saatchi sold the former Yankelovich, Skelly & White, now Yankelovich Partners, in 1992.)
        In recognition of her contributions to the field, in 1990 the Market Research Council inducted Ms. Skelly into its Market Research Hall of Fame.
        Over the years Ms. Skelly served on numerous boards, including the National Council of Christians and Jews, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Business Advisory Board and the Warnaco Corporation.
        In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Ms. Skelly is survived by her husband, Eugene Altman of Scottsdale, and a son, Jonathan Altman of Los Angeles.
      