
        Helen Ward, who sang with the Benny Goodman band in the 1930's, died on April 21 at the Vencor Hospital in Arlington, Va. She was 82 and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        Ms. Ward's supple voice, her easygoing sense of swing and her alluring stage presence were essential to the Goodman band's early success. She toured and recorded with the band from 1934 to 1936, and reunited occasionally with Goodman after World War II.
        Ms. Ward was born in 1916 in New York City. When she finished high school she started performing in bands led by Nye Mayhew, Eddie Duchin, Dave Rubinoff, Nat Brandwynne and Will Osborne; she also appeared on radio programs on WOR and WNBC, where she became a staff musician.
        She was singing with Enrique Madriguera's Latin Band in 1934 when the Goodman band was auditioning for an engagement at the Billy Rose Music Hall; she sang with the band at its second audition, and it got the job, although she did not join the  Goodman band until a few months later. She also sang with the Goodman band on the radio program ''Let's Dance'' from December 1934 to May 1935; a series of recordings from that program is about to be released by the Circle label.
        With the Goodman band, she recorded songs including ''Goody Goody,'' ''You Turned the Tables on Me,'' ''It's Been So Long'' and the million-seller ''These Foolish Things.'' She recorded ''All My Life'' and ''Too Good to Be True'' with the Goodman trio. Often, she would be handed the sheet music for a song the same day she performed it.
        After leaving the Goodman band, Ms. Ward turned to recording, appearing on albums with Teddy Wilson, Gene Krupa, Bob Crosby, Joe Sullivan and Harry James. She toured with the band led by Hal McIntyre in 1942 and 1943, and recorded with Red Norvo, Harry James, Wild Bill Davison and Peanuts Hucko. In 1944 she joined Harry James's band. In 1946-47 she produced musical variety shows on WMGM in New York City.
        She retired from regular performing in the late 1940's but rejoined Goodman for tours and recordings in 1953, 1957 and 1958. In 1979, she came out of retirement, performing at clubs including the Waldorf-Astoria's Starlight Roof and the Rainbow Room in New York City, and she made ''The Helen Ward Song Book'' (Lyricon) in 1981. Lyricon also plans to release an album of her performing in ''Finian's Rainbow,'' from a production recorded in Westchester, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Bill Savory.
      