
        Dr. Viola Wertheim Bernard, a prominent New York psychiatrist who found ways to help adopted and foster children feel at home in new surroundings, died on March 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91 and also lived in Nyack, N.Y.
        Her prescription for easing the way for adopted children into a new home was to arrange for them to visit the new place in advance. ''Helping children to see where they are going reduces the fear of strangeness,'' she advised.
        Throughout her professional life, she worked to widen the applications of psychoanalytic theory to study and tackle social problems. A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
        In an association with Columbia University that spanned five decades, she founded its Division of Community and Social Psychiatry and directed it from 1956 to 1969. She was also a founder of what is now the Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. At her death, she was clinical professor emeritus at the Psychoanalytic Center for Training and Research at Columbia.
        Dr. Bernard opened her Upper East Side medical practice in 1940 as a specialist in psychiatry and psychoanalysis. The author of about 100 papers and several books, she recently finished her latest article on the relevance of psychiatry and psychoanalysis in social contexts,  said Kathleen L. Kelly, an executor. It will appear in the forthcoming issue of The Psychoanalytic Review.
        Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
        A Manhattan native, she graduated from New York University in 1933 and earned her medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1936. She trained in psychiatry and neurology at Jersey City Medical Center, Grasslands Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y., and the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Hospital.
        Dr. Bernard leaves no immediate family. She was married in the 1930's to Theos C. Bernard, an anthropologist, who died in 1948, 10 years after their divorce.
      