
        Wendy O. Williams, the leader of the 1980's punk band the Plasmatics, a group more famous for their destructive onstage antics than for their music, died on Monday at her home in Storrs, Conn., in what officials called a suicide. She was 48.
        The cause was a gunshot wound to the head, said a spokeswoman for the state's Chief Medical Examiner, who said that she had committed suicide.
        Born in Rochester to an Eastman Kodak chemist and his wife, Ms. Williams got her first taste of fame tap-dancing on the ''Howdy Doody Show'' at age 6 and had her first but not last run-in with the law at age 15 when she was arrested for sunbathing nude. She left high school soon after and hitchhiked to Colorado and later Florida, making money selling crafts and working as a lifeguard. She drifted through Europe, bartending, dancing and getting arrested for shoplifting and passing counterfeit money. In 1976 she landed in Manhattan as a performer at Captain Kink's Sex Fantasy Theater, where she met Rod Swenson, a Yale graduate who ran the sex shows there.
        Mr. Swenson became her manager in 1978 and helped her put together the Plasmatics, which made its debut at CBGB's, the punk and New Wave mecca of the time. The group's music was loud, heavy guitar-driven rock, which transformed from noise to heavy metal as the years wore on, all with Ms. Williams singing, rasping and ranting on top.
        It was the band's performances, however, that brought it to national attention. Ms. Williams, with a striking blond mohawk and wearing a nurse's uniform, electrical tape or just shaving cream would attack guitars with chainsaws, fire shotguns at amplifiers and destroy television sets with sledgehammers. At one performance, she leapt out of a Cadillac moments before it exploded and plunged into the Hudson River. On Tom Snyder's ''Tomorrow,'' she blew up another automobile, and in videos she leapt from moving cars to airplanes and crashed a school bus into a wall of television sets.
        After the release of the first of four Plasmatics albums, ''New Hope for the Wretched,'' on Stiff Records in 1981, Ms. Williams became a First Amendment cause celebre when she was arrested in Milwaukee and later in Cleveland on obscenity charges involving lewd gestures made with a sledgehammer and a microphone. (The charges didn't stick.) In 1985 she was nominated for a Grammy Award for best female rock vocal.
        As Plasmatics members drifted into other bands, Ms. Williams recorded solo albums, put together various incarnations of the Plasmatics and starred in film comedies like ''Reform School Girls'' and ''Pucker Up and Bark Like a Dog.'' Despite her image, friends described Ms. Williams as a warm, ascetic and somewhat shy vegetarian who demanded sprouts and tofu backstage, spent 12 hours a week working out and contributed to animal rights causes. Ms. Williams moved with Mr. Swenson to Connecticut in 1991, where she worked with animals.
        She is survived by her mother and two sisters.
      