
        Eleanor C. Lambertsen, a leader in American nursing education who introduced the concept of team nursing for better patient care, died on March 30 at Waverly Heights, a nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. She was 82 and a former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to Teachers College of Columbia University, where Dr. Lambertsen headed the department of nursing education from 1961 to 1970 and taught doctoral courses on nursing leadership into the late 1980's.
        Dr. Lambertsen started her career in the 1930's as a bedside nurse at Overlook Hospital of Nursing in Summit, N.J. The idea of team nursing sprang from her doctoral dissertation, and in the decades afterward, the concept made her a mentor and teacher to generations of health professionals around the world.
        ''The purpose of team nursing,'' Dr. Lambertsen wrote in her dissertation, ''is to blend different kinds of nurses into the working unit whose core is the patient and his individual nursing needs.''
        She devoted her career to converting nurses, doctors and hospital administrators to the concept. As nurses and nurse executives followed her lead, she worked to uphold high educational standards and to raise the esteem in which nurses were held.
        The teams she envisioned were led by doctors and experienced nurses who coordinated the work of physical and occupational therapists, social workers and others. She also took the concept to classrooms and hospital wards in this country and overseas as a consultant to governments and nursing organizations she helped to inspire.
        A native of Fanwood, N.J., she graduated from Overlook Hospital in 1938 and rose to director of the school of nursing services there in 1945. She received her bachelor's (1949), master's (1950) and doctoral degrees (1957) in education from Teachers College.
        Her dissertation spelled out her idea of team nursing, and it was published as a book by Teachers College Press under the title ''Nursing Team Organization and Functioning.'' The dissertation led to a demonstration project at Francis Delafield Hospital, a cancer hospital in Manhattan.
        The demonstration attracted administrators from across the country who sought to reorganize their nursing staffs according to Dr. Lambertsen's team concept.
        In the previous system, called functional nursing, one nurse delivered medication, another bathed patients and so forth.
        Dr. Lambertsen's plan called for registered nurses to work closely with doctors to oversee patient care and treatment goals and to coordinate nurses' roles. Daily nurse conferences were held to review care plans and arrange the duties of licensed practical nurses, therapists and other aides.
        The American Nurses Association honored Dr. Lambertsen in 1984 for originating the concept of team nursing. It also praised her role as principal investigator in studies that advanced nursing education and documented the need for the proper training of nurses facing greater professional responsibilities.
        The association cited her ''pioneering efforts'' to promote the nurse practitioner movement and the nurses' role in delivering primary care. It also praised her efforts to improve the nurses' relationship with other health care professionals. Four years ago, Dr. Lambertsen endowed a research program of the American Nurses Foundation.
        In 1970, she was appointed dean of the Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing. In 1974 she became senior associate director of nursing at the hospital, and she held that position for a number of years.
        Her husband, Dr. Joseph Anderson, died about 30 years ago. She is survived by two brothers, Herbert and Dr. Christian Lambertsen, both of Irvington, N.J.
      