
        Diana Epstein, a onetime New York book editor whose prosaic need to replace some plastic (ugh!) buttons on a stylish new jacket led her down a rabbit hole of miniature wonder into an enchanted world awash in buttons, died on April 3 at Beth Israel Hospital North near her tiny town house on the Upper East Side. She was 61 and a founding proprietor of Tender Buttons, the small East 62d Street shop devoted exclusively, ecstatically, extravagantly to buttons.
        Her friend and business partner, Millicent Safro, said the cause was an infection contracted during treatment for the flu.
        Until that fateful day in 1964 when she set out on her lunch hour to buy some decent buttons, Ms. Epstein had been a more or less normal New York career woman, albeit one with a decided artistic flair and a vague feeling that literature might not be her true calling.
        A native of New York City who was adopted by an aunt, Ms. Epstein had grown up in Chicago, graduated from the University of Chicago and studied at the Art Institute of Chicago before coming to New York, where she held a series of editing jobs and tried her hand at writing, once taking off six months to work on a novel in Greece.
        For all her soaring imagination, Ms. Epstein could never have dreamed up what happened to her after she arrived at the ramshackle East 77th Street shop where she had bought buttons before and found that the proprietor had died and the store was shuttered.
        Acting on what she recalled only as an inspired whim, Ms. Epstein tracked down the owner's heirs, paid them $5,000 for the entire stock of several hundred thousand buttons dating to the 1930's, and then, with no place to keep them, rented the store, and, somewhat dazed by her impetuous investment, tried to figure out what to do next.
        A few weeks later, at a party at the store for an artist friend, she got the answer: One of the guests was Ms. Safro, a young antiques restorer who took one look at Ms. Epstein and the jumble of crushed and torn cartons of buttons and decided to set them straight.
        It was the beginning of a remarkable partnership, and by the time Ms. Safro had helped Ms. Epstein organize the hoard of buttons the friends had backed into a business they knew nothing about.
        As Ms. Epstein later recalled, the women, who had no real notion of opening a business, made their first sale when one of the store's former customers wandered in one day and bought six red buttons for a penny apiece in what may or may not have been a bargain: The women had no idea what any of their buttons were worth, but they soon made a point to find out, reading virtually everything ever written about buttons, which date to ancient Egypt but have been a collecting craze only since the Depression, and pumping experts in the field.
        By the time they moved the store to its present location, at 143 East 62d Street, in 1968, they had become experts themselves.
        Ms. Epstein had published the first of her three books on buttons, and, to their eventual dismay, both had become so hopelessly hooked on buttons that selling a treasured set would make them cry.
        Business is business, however, and they made the best of it, purchasing a series of important collections, making two extensive buying trips abroad each year and making their store such a valuable resource it was a wonder how such celebrity regulars as Joan Bennett, Candice Bergen, Bill Blass, Oleg Cassini, Julie Christie, Claudette Colbert, Catherine Deneuve, Greta Garbo, Rose Kennedy, Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Ali MacGraw, Paloma Picasso, Sidney Poitier, Isabella Rossellini, Susan Sarandon, Brooke Shields, Carly Simon, William Styron and Tom Wolfe could have got by without them, not to mention Kermit the Frog.
        (The two women, who delighted in tracking down Muppet buttons in the precise shade of Kermit green, also supplied the playing card buttons for Jack Nicholson's jacket as the Joker in ''Batman.'')
        Although Ms. Epstein believed that the quality of the store's vast selection spurred designers to upgrade their buttons, it has not been unusual for a customer to go straight from, say, Bergdorf's to Tender Buttons to buy an even better set of buttons for a newly purchased dress or suit.
        In a store with thousands of different blazer button designs and tens of thousands of unique sets, Ms. Epstein, who saw buttons as art, catered to both collectors and customers seeking a single replacement for a missing shirt button or a striking set for a new garment.
        She was so familiar with her stock that she would go unerringly to the box holding the exact match for a customer's missing button on a pair of Brooks Brothers pajamas.
        Ms. Epstein's personal credo was that buttons should never speak louder than the dress or jacket they adorn, no cinch, to be sure, in a store much of whose inventory fairly shouts, but then her own clothes tended to be handmade to her own design from fine fabrics purchased abroad.
        Operating a store that is as much museum as emporium, its walls lined floor to ceiling with small gray boxes holding more than a million ancient, antique and modern buttons in a profusion of materials, shapes and sizes with designs ranging from miniature fine art to cut-down kitsch, seemed to stimulate Ms. Epstein's artistic talents.
        A large woman of surprising grace, she developed an interest in all things small, and became famous among her friends for her miniature watercolor collages, which led to a line of button-adorned greeting cards (''Berry Christmas'').
        She was also known for her ''little'' dinners, generally served on small plates on children's furniture, but once, for a visiting niece who really wasn't very hungry, she served up breakfast on doll house china.
        Ms. Epstein, who is survived by two brothers, Mel and Sheldon Green, and a sister, Barbara Levin, all of Chicago, where Tender Buttons also has a store, made sure the business would survive her. Ms. Safro, her heir, said it would continue.
      