
        Maria Torok, a psychoanalyst in France whose rejection of Freud's ideas was welcomed in feminist circles and whose new methods for confronting pain and trauma drew many Holocaust survivors to her offices in Paris, died on March 25 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 72 and had lived briefly in Madison, Wis.
        The cause was complications of leukemia, said Dr. Nicholas Rand, her husband and a professor of French literature at the University of Wisconsin.
        Ms. Torok's work, much of it published with Nicolas Abraham, her main collaborator, rejected most of Freud's core ideas, said Dr. Nelly Furman, a professor of French at Cornell University. ''She focused on the uniqueness of individuals and how they can overcome psychic pain,'' Dr. Furman said.
        Ms. Torok's vision of psychoanalysis was liberated from the Freudian framework, including the Oedipus complex -- in which a male child may see the father as a rival for the mother's love. That interpretation was useful to a wide range of patients who had experienced trauma, but especially to dozens of Jews who had survived the Holocaust.
        ''Ms. Torok was a landmark figure, very important within the world of psychoanalysis,'' Dr. Furman said, ''remembered for the manner in which she brought back the importance of individual experience within the limits of the theoretical apparatus of psychoanalysis. She was concerned with the clinical and healing ends of psychoanalysis.''
        Ms. Torok collaborated with Mr. Abraham from 1950 to 1975. Both were Hungarians in the line of psychoanalysis begun by their countryman, Sandor Ferenczi, who was a close associate of Freud.
        Working in Paris from 1956 to 1996, Ms. Torok led a seminar in phenomenological psychology, which emphasized the person's experiences as the basis for analysis.
        She employed a novel approach that ''pushed to the limits the explorations of the unconscious, with the goal of devising a clinical method for liberating people from the intergenerational 'phantoms' that haunt their memories and the buried 'crypts' that limit their freedom,'' said Dr. Rand, her English-language editor.
        Collaborating with Mr. Abraham, she wrote ''The Shell and the Kernel: Renewals of Psychoanalysis'' (University of Chicago Press, 1994) and ''The Wolf Man's Magic Word'' (University of Minnesota Press, 1976), which explores a classic case in Freud's writings, a study of the delusions of a patient of Freud's known as the Wolf Man.
        With Dr. Rand, Ms. Torok wrote and edited ''Questions for Freud: The Secret History of Psychoanalysis'' (Harvard University Press, 1998), and edited ''Rhythms: On the Work, Translation and Psychoanalysis'' (Stanford University Press, 1995).
        Born in Budapest, Ms. Torok went to Paris in 1947 and received a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Paris in 1955. She received a certificate in 1959 from the Paris Psychoanalytic Society.
        Aside from her husband, there were no other immediate survivors.
      