
        Marjory Stoneman Douglas, the spirited writer and environmentalist who was known as the patron saint of the Florida Everglades for her ceaseless campaign to preserve the fragile wetlands, died yesterday at her home in Miami. She was 108.
        Mrs. Douglas, who prevailed in recent years over blindness, hearing difficulties and other ailments, died in the English-style cottage she had built on a leafy street in Miami's Coconut Grove neighborhood in 1926.
        ''The years caught up with her,'' William T. Muir, a lawyer and friend, told The Associated Press. He said that after cremation, her remains would be scattered over a portion of  Everglades National Park that bears her name.
        The author of many short stories, novels and works of nonfiction, Mrs. Douglas was best known for her 1947 call to arms, ''The Everglades: River of Grass,'' which was at once a natural and political history and a  warning of what was to come if developers and other commercial interests were permitted to have their way with the unique wetlands that cover much of southern Florida.
        The book became a best-seller and transformed public perception of the wetlands, which were then considered by most people to be useless swamps that should be drained and developed for farming and housing.  The novelist John Hersey, reviewing the book for The New York Herald Tribune, called it ''a remarkable almost poem'' and said that in the years to come, it would remain ''unique in any company.''
        Mrs. Douglas began her book simply: ''There are no other Everglades in the world.''
        ''The simplicity, the diversity, the related harmony of the forms of life they enclose. . . . It is a river of grass,'' she wrote.
        Her phrase ''river of grass'' caught the public imagination but it was also a reference to the fact that the Everglades is really a vast, slow-moving stream of shallow water and saw grass that covers much of the final 100 miles of South Florida.
        Mrs. Douglas was considered an authority on the delicate ecosystem of the Everglades, which is home to ibises, roseate spoonbills, wood storks, manatees, the threatened Florida panther and saltwater crocodile, and hundreds of other animals, fish and plants. But in her book she made her case with a rare blend of science, local lore and history, and shimmering writing: ''The clear burning light of the sun pours daylong into the saw grass and is lost there, soaked up, never given back. Only the water flashes and glints. The grass yields nothing.''
        In 1947, the year her book was published, she also helped lead the campaign to have the central core of the Everglades preserved as Everglades National Park.
        Long before water problems began to plague South Florida, Mrs. Douglas cried out against poor land management and the ill-planned creation of canals that, in effect, decreased the amount of fresh water in the Everglades and increased the amount of salt water, imperiling the ecosystem.
        She deplored state and local policies that encouraged overdevelopment of the Everglades and threatened the very source water on which South Florida depends. Of the people of South Florida, she said, ''They could not get it through their heads that they had produced some of the worst conditions themselves, by their lack of cooperation, their selfishness, their mutual distrust and their willful refusal to consider the truth of the whole situation.''
        She added that unless people acted more responsibly, ''overdrainage will go on'' and ''the soil will shrink and burn and be wasted and destroyed, in a continuing ruin.''
        But in ''The Everglades: River of Grass,'' she expressed the hope that ''perhaps even in this last hour, in a new relation of usefulness and beauty, the vast, magnificent, subtle and unique region of the Everglades may not be utterly lost.''
        In 1969, she helped found Friends of the Everglades, a conservation organization that now has 5,000 members. Joe Podgor, the former executive director, called her ''the giant on whose shoulders we all stand.''
        In 1990, on her 100th birthday, when she was blind and frail, she continued to speak out against those who plundered the Everglades. And as damaged as the Everglades were, the fact that any of it remained was in large measure a tribute to her perseverance.
        Roderick J. Jude, a longtime leader of the Florida chapter of the Sierra Club, said, ''The Everglades wouldn't be there for us to try to continue to save if not for her work through the years.''
        Once an area of more than 4,000 square miles, the Everglades has shrunk to less than half its original size, the result of overdrainage, urban sprawl and pollution from government-supported sugar cane and dairy farming. Many think its long-range future is still tenuous.
        In 1996, President Clinton endorsed a project to protect the Everglades by spending several hundred million dollars to buy farmland, take it out of production and try to restore the kind of natural water flow that Mrs. Douglas warned the state it was in danger of losing.
        The proposal was strongly opposed by farmers, who saw it as an erosion of agribusiness. The sugar farmers asserted it was not their activities that damaged the Everglades as much as government drainage and flood control projects that turned wetlands into dry land so that it could be used for urban development.
        In 1996, the voters of Florida approved a constitutional amendment for the cleanup of the Everglades,  but rejected a penny-a-pound tax on sugar to pay for it. The sugar growers convinced a majority of voters that the tax would have cost thousands of jobs.
        The following year the Clinton Administration and the State of Florida agreed to buy more than 50,000 acres of sugar cane fields on the outskirts of Everglades National Park, a step toward rescuing the endangered ecosystem from polluted runoff.
        A comprehensive restoration plan for the Everglades is expected later this year from the Army Corps of Engineers, which together with the South Florida Water Management District, a state agency, has been directed by Congress to oversee the huge replumbing project designed to restore the flow of fresh, clean water on which the Everglades depends.
        Marjory Stoneman was born April 7, 1890, in Minneapolis, the daughter of Frank and Lillian Stoneman. Her father was a judge who became the first editor of the paper that eventually became The Miami Herald; her mother was a concert violinist.
        Mrs. Douglas was raised in Taunton, Mass., and went to Wellesley College, where she majored in English, graduating in the class of 1912. Two years later she married a newspaperman named Kenneth Douglas, but realizing her marriage was a mistake she went to Miami, where she became a reporter at her father's newspaper. During World War I, she served with the American Red Cross in France, Belgium, Italy and in the Balkans.
        Back in Miami after the war, she obtained a divorce and was reunited with her father at The Herald, becoming assistant editor, writing editorials and editing a literary column called ''The Galley.'' Her editorial writing presaged ''The Everglades: River of Grass,'' in that she began to explore the problems associated with Florida's rapid commercial development.
        In 1923 she left The Herald to try free-lancing and sold her first story to The Saturday Evening Post. In 1928 she won second place in the O. Henry Memorial Prize for short story writing. In 1937, another of her short stories, ''Story of a Homely Woman,'' was included in a selection of the best Post stories published that year. Her first novel, ''Road to the Sun,'' which she worked on for 10 years, was published in 1951. It was the first of several works she would create for young readers.
        Among Mrs. Douglas's other works were ''The Key to Paris,'' a book for young readers published in 1961, and a play, ''The Gallows Gate,'' in 1928. With John Rothchild she wrote ''Voice of the River,'' in 1987, an autobiography that told of her fierce advocacy of conservation measures to save the natural environment of South Florida.
        Her short stories appeared in many magazines, including The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's and Women's Home Companion.
        In addition to her writing, Mrs. Douglas taught at the University of Miami from 1925 to 1929 and also lectured at Pennsylvania State University in the late 1920's. She served on the editorial board of the University of Miami Press and for a time wrote book reviews. Among her other interests was the Junior Museum of Miami and the Coconut Grove Slum Clearance Association. She was also a member of the Society of Women Geographers.
        Mrs. Douglas, who had no immediate survivors, was honored in many ways. Queen Elizabeth visited her in 1991. Two years later, President Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The building in Tallahassee that houses the state Department of Environmental Protection is named for her. Also named for her are a nature center in Key Biscayne and several schools and parks elsewhere in Florida.
        President Clinton said of Mrs. Douglas in a statement from Germany, ''Long before there was an Earth Day, Mrs. Douglas was a passionate steward of our nation's natural resources, and particularly her Florida Everglades.''
        On her 100th birthday, Marjory Stoneman Douglas was asked if she had hope for the Everglades' survival. She answered: ''I am neither an optimist nor a pessimist. I say it's got to be done.''
      