
        Dorothy Donegan, a jazz pianist who brashly mixed swing, boogie-woogie, vaudeville, pop, ragtime and Bach -- sometimes within a span of 10 minutes -- and who was known for an outrageous sense of humor, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 76.
        The cause was colon cancer, said The Associated Press.
        Ms. Donegan was better known as a performer than as a recording artist, and her flamboyance helped her find work in a field that was largely hostile to women. To a certain extent, it was also her downfall; her concerts were often criticized for having an excess of personality. She would act out songs, mocking their words; do devastating parodies of pianists and singers, especially if they were in the audience, or get up and shake her hips while keeping up a left-handed riff.
        She could push humor into brazenness and kept up a supply of off-color jokes. She told writers without hesitation that sexism caused her obscurity -- that, and her insistence on being paid at the same scale as her male colleagues.
        Born in Chicago, Ms. Donegan was  encouraged from an early age by her mother to become a professional musician. She was a church organist as a girl, and at 14 she was playing for a dollar a night at the city's South Side bars. She was one of many notable jazz musicians inestimably helped by the tutelage of Walter Dyett, a music teacher at DuSable High School, whose other students included Dinah Washington, Johnny Griffin, Gene Ammons and Von Freeman.
        She played blues and boogie-woogie piano, even recording for the  Bluebird label in 1942, but she aspired to be a classical concert pianist. She studied at the Chicago Conservatory and at the Chicago Musical College. In 1943, when she was 18, she gave a concert at Orchestra Hall in Chicago, the first black performer to do so. Time magazine covered the concert, and word about a pianist with a wide repertory and blizzard-fast fingers reached the jazz piano virtuoso Art Tatum, who came to her house to hear her play. Tatum showed her some of his technique, and remained the strongest influence on her playing.
        Hollywood soon came calling. Persuaded by her agent to turn down a five-year contract from MGM, she accepted a $3,000-a-week contract  from United Artists for one picture,  ''Sensations of 1945.'' She appears in a duet scene with another pianist, Gene Rodgers, and the band behind them was Cab Calloway's. That was the end of her film career.
        In the late 1950's she began a series of engagements at the Embers in Manhattan and the London House in Chicago. It was during this period that she developed her performance style.
        By the 1970's she was more comfortable, making a living playing in festivals in America and Europe and attracting a fierce coterie of fans in New York.
        A resident of Los Angeles since the 1950's, she would return occasionally to the East Coast for nightclub performances or a jazz-festival or concert-hall event. After a Town Hall performance in 1971, John S. Wilson wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Donegan ''showed a technical virtuosity that could be compared only to that of Art Tatum and a swinging drive that might be equaled by Mary Lou Williams.''
        Ms. Donegan was married three times, and is survived by two sons, John and Donovan. Her last performances were in Monterey, Calif., last September, before diabetes and cancer rendered her too ill to play.
      