
        Maria-Helena Vieira da Silva, a painter prominently associated with the School of Paris, died in Paris on March 6. The Portuguese-born artist was 83 years old and had lived in Paris since 1928.
        She died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for the French Ministry of Culture.
        Although Miss Vieira da Silva had been a French citizen since 1956, she was regarded by many as Portugal's greatest contemporary artist. Her poetic canvases, vast semi-abstractions in which mosaiclike patches of color were linked by lines into labyrinthine compositions, interested artists of the American Abstract Expressionist school, who first saw her work in New York in 1946.
        To observe her 80th birthday in 1988, a major Vieira da Silva retrospective was presented at the Gulbenkian Museum in Lisbon and the Grand Palais in Paris. Her paintings are in important museum collections throughout the world, including the Museum of Modern Art in Paris, the Tate Gallery in London, the Stedelijk in Amsterdam, and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York. She was awarded the Legion of Honor by the French Government and France's National Arts Prize in 1966. In 1961, she won the painting prize at the prestigious Sao Paulo Bienal in Brazil. One Theme Was War
        The themes of her paintings are varied: landscapes, games, city streets, atmospheric effects, the seasons, spatial arrangements. Influences on her work ranged from the winding streets of her native Lisbon and the traditional glazed tiles of Portugal to the horrors of World War II. During that period, canvases like "Le Metro" and "The Disaster" of 1942 reflected the grim scene in Europe.
        Miss Vieira da Silva was born in Lisbon on June 13, 1908. At 19, she began to study sculpture in Paris with Antoine Bourdelle and Charles Despiau; later she took up painting under the tutelage of Fernand Leger and Othon Friesz. Her first show was in 1933 at the Galerie Jeanne Bucher. In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, she and her husband, Arpad Szenes, a Hungarian-born painter she married in 1930, fled to Rio de Janeiro. There she did murals for the University of Agriculture and had several solo exhibitions. The couple's home in Rio became a gathering place for emerging Brazilian artists.
        Miss Vieira da Silva's first postwar exhibition was in New York in 1946 at the Marian Willard Gallery. The next year, she returned to Paris, where she exhibited regularly, working until shortly before her death. She also had a studio in Lisbon, and a former silk factory near it is now being turned into a museum of her work.
        Mr. Szenes died in 1985. The couple had no children.
      