
        Nika Hazelton, whose cookbooks have been a mainstay of serious cooks for nearly half a century, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of natural causes after a lingering illness, said her son, Dr. S. A. Standen, who lives in London.
        Mrs. Hazelton, the daughter of a German diplomat, was born in Rome, attended school there, and studied at the London School of Economics. She began her career as a reporter in 1930, covering the League of Nations for the German Press Association and then moving on to freelance work.
        After marrying and emigrating to the United States in 1940, she began writing cookbooks with recipes culled primarily from home cooks throughout Europe and South America.
        She published 30 books and they reflected her firm, no-nonsense taste in food. "American Home Cooking" (Bobbs Merrill, 1967), "French Home Cooking" (Viking Penguin, 1979,) "International Cookbook" (Harper & Row, 1967) and "The Italian Cookbook (Henry Holt, 1979) remain standards.
        She was also a frequent contributer to the major food magazines and for several decades wrote a column about food, wine and travel for The National Review.
        As cooking became trendy and precious in the United States, she seemed to raise a speculative eyebrow. Facing a group of wine writers in New York several years ago, Mrs. Hazelton waved aside questions about white truffles and little-known family vineyards. "I'm here to show you a meal from Tuscany that has the virtue of not being too expensive and not taking much genius or fuss to prepare," she informed her audience and proceeded to demonstrate the proper way to make escarole and rice soup.
        Her first marriage ended in divorce in 1954. She married Harold Hazelton in 1956. He died in November.
        Mrs. Hazelton is survived by two sons, Dr. Standen and J. O. Standen, a lawyer in San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 3 P.M. on April 28 at St. Agnes Church on East 43d Street in Manhattan.
        Correction:  April 18, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about the cookbook author Nika Hazelton misstated the day of her death and the date of a memorial service. She died on Wednesday, and the service will be on April 27, at 3 P.M., at the Church of St. Agnes, 141 East 43d Street, in Manhattan.
      