
        Kang Keqing, a veteran of the Communists' Long March and one of the best-known women in China, died today in the capital. She was 80 years old.
        The official New China News Agency praised Ms. Kang as "an outstanding leader of the women's movement in China" and said she had died of an unspecified illness.
        The report did not mention another important reason for Ms. Kang's fame: she was the widow of Zhu De, a famous revolutionary and military leader who died in 1976.
        Ms. Kang's death is a reminder that many of China's most influential leaders are also in their 80's and 90's and in ill health. There have been few deaths in recent years, but many Chinese expect to see a substantial shuffle at the top levels of Government this year because of attrition. Aura of Prestige
        Born in September 1911, Ms. Kang was the daughter of a poor fisherman in Jiangxi Province. Accounts vary slightly, but her parents apparently did not want a daughter. They reportedly gave her away when she was about one month old to grow up as a virtual slave in another peasant household.
        At the age of 15 she joined the Communist Youth League, and a year later she ran away from her foster parents and a marriage they had arranged for her. She fled to Jinggangshan, a base for Communist guerrillas who were fighting the Nationalist forces led by Chiang Kai-shek.
        She married Mr. Zhu, the commander of the Communist forces, whose full name is also spelled Chu De.
        When the Nationalists attacked the base in 1934, she joined the Long March, the long and dangerous journey by foot across most of China to a new base in the northwest of the country. The trek took a year, and gave the marchers an aura of prestige that they carried for the rest of their lives. Central Committee Member
        "It was just like going out for a stroll every day," she once said, playing down the hunger, sickness and battles that took the lives of many of the participants. Ms. Kang was a soldier, and she carried two pistols and a rifle on the Long March.
        After the Communist revolution in 1949, Ms. Kang became a leader of the Women's Federation and entered the National People's Congress. From 1977 through 1985, she was a member of the Communist Party Central Committee.
        Ms. Kang was not active in political power struggles, but she appeared periodically to greet children or to congratulate the Women's Federation on various achievements. The New China News Agency did not mention any funeral plans.
      