
        Edna Simon Levine, a psychologist who founded many programs to help deaf people, died on April 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of a heart ailment, a friend said.
        Dr. Levine devoted her career to the problems of people with impaired hearing as an advocate, author, teacher, researcher, clinician and trainer of other professionals.
        She organized the first comprehensive dictionary of sign language in 1964, which standardized the signs. She formed the Deaf Repertory Theater, helped create the Foundation for the Deaf and worked on adapting telephones for the deaf, including experiments with video telephones.
        As a psychologist, Dr. Levine focused on helping deaf people cope with feelings of social isolation from hearing people. Directed U.N. Program
        She directed a 1972 United Nations Task Force on Deafness and a 1974 national conference on training psychological workers for the deaf. She initiated the New York State Psychiatric Institute's mental health program for the deaf and founded New York University's research and training center for deafness rehabilitation, a forerunner of centers elsewhere.
        Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America. Her other honors included an honorary doctorate from Gallaudet University, which educates deaf students.
        She was a past president of the Psychology Commission of the World Federation for the Deaf and a former board member of the American Psychological Association, the American Hearing Society, the Inter-Branch Library Association of New York and the New York League for the Hard of Hearing.
        Dr. Levine, who was not deaf, was born in New York City and got started in the field after she trained as a teacher at the Lexington School for the Deaf in Manhattan. She earned bachelor's and master's degrees and a doctorate in psychology at New York University, where she later taught educational psychology for 15 years. She also earned a master's in special education at Columbia.
        Her husband, Dr. Matthew Levine, a psychiatrist, is deceased. There are no immediate survivors.
      