
        Dr. Rosa Lee Nemir Audi, a pulmonary and pediatrics specialist who worked 60 years as a doctor, teacher and researcher, died on Monday at Tisch Hospital at New York University in Manhattan. She was 86 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Dr. Nemir, who used her maiden name professionally, died of lung fibrosis, her family said.
        Among the first American women to become a full professor of pediatrics, Dr. Nemir promoted medical careers for women as president of the American Medical Women's Association, North American vice president of Medical Women's International and its representative to the United Nations.
        Tuberculosis was a major focus of her work. Before the discovery of antibiotics to treat the disease, Dr. Nemir studied the effects of steroids in tuberculosis patients. She also was the first to use rifampin, which became a standard drug for TB, to treat children and followed one group of patients from childhood through the next 30 years.
        Her entire career was at New York University's medical school and Bellevue Hospital Center, where she remained active until her recent illness. She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
        She was also an officer of the Young Men's Christian Association, Brooklyn chapter manager for the American Red Cross and a member of the boards of the Irvington House for Children, the Brooklyn Kindergarten Society and the Willoughby House Settlement.
        Born in Waco, Tex., she graduated from the University of Texas in 1926 and Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1930.
        Her husband of 35 years, E. J. Audi, who ran a furniture and carpet business, died in 1968.
        She is survived by two sons, Alfred, of Syracuse, and Robert, of Lincoln, Neb.; a daughter, Elaine Audi Macken of Brooklyn; a sister, Aline Nemir Speer of Austin, Tex., and eight grandchildren.
      