
        Rixi Markus, the first woman to be named a grandmaster of bridge, died on Saturday in London. She was 81 years old.
        Mrs. Markus had suffered a heart attack.
        She was a winner of many national, international and world bridge titles and an organizer of matches, the editor of a bridge column and the author of eight books on the game.
        Mrs. Markus, who changed her name to Rixi, was born Erika Scharfstein in 1910 in Gura Humorului, a town in Bukovina that is now part of northern Romania. She moved to Vienna at an early age and learned to play whist when she was 12 years old.
        A decade later she became a star in the new game of contract bridge. She was the youngest member of the Austrian women's team that won the European title in 1935 and 1936 and the world title in 1937.
        She married Salomon Markus, a businessman, in 1929 and a daughter, Margot, was born the following year. The marriage later ended in divorce in 1947.
        On the day Hitler's forces entered Austria in 1938, Mrs. Markus left by train with her daughter and reached England, where she lived for the rest of her life. In 1951 she returned to international competition as a member of the British women's team and won another European Women's Championship, a triumph she was to repeat six more times.
        Many of her successes were as a partner of Fritzi Gordon, another refugee from Austria, who died two months ago. They won the first World Women's Pairs Championship in Cannes, France, in 1962, and repeated that success in Las Palmas in the Canary Islands in 1974, a double achievement that has never been matched.
        In 1974 Mrs. Markus became the first woman ever to be named grandmaster by the World Bridge Federation, and she was the world's top-ranked player among women for the next six years. She won another title at the World Team Olympiad in New York in 1964.
        Her most renowned achievement was a 1961 victory in Britain's premier bridge event, the Gold Cup, an event that few women have won.
        Mrs. Markus became the target of controversy when she supported two British players, Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro, who had been found guilty of cheating by the World Bridge Federation in the 1965 World Team Championships in Buenos Aires.
        In an article in Bridge World, she wrote that the British captain, Ralph Swimer, had failed in his duties, and he sued her for libel. The suit ended in 1969 after a High Court jury was unable to agree on a verdict.
        Mrs. Markus wrote eight books about bridge in addition to her autobiography, "A Vulnerable Game," published in London in 1988. She was the bridge editor of The Guardian in Britain from 1955 until her death.
        She was also the chief organizer of the annual bridge matches between the House of Lords and the House of Commons. In 1975 Queen Elizabeth II named her a Member, Order of the British Empire, for services to bridge.
        Mrs. Markus had no surviving relatives. Her daughter died in Los Angeles in 1976.
      