
        Molly Picon, the comedic actress and singer who lightened and brightened the often dolorous themes of Yiddish theater with shows that were sprightly operettas, died yesterday in Lancaster, Pa. She was 94 years old.
        She died in her sleep at the home of her sister, Helen Silverblatt, said Seymour Rexite, president of the Hebrew Actors Union.
        Miss Picon, who was an indefatigable performer well into her 80's, had a stage career that dated from first efforts when she was 5 years old. With her sparkling
        ganayvishe oygen,
        or mischievous eyes, and her sturdy delivery of Yiddish songs with appropriate gestures and intonation, she reigned supreme in more than 200 productions along the Yiddish theater row that was lower Second Avenue during the 1920's.
        She also appeared on Broadway, achieving her most notable success in a two-season run of "Milk and Honey," a hit musical that opened in 1961, when she was in her mid-60's. When she co-starred with Robert Morley in a London production of "A Majority of One," she was acclaimed by critics.
        But it was in Yiddish theater, where audiences often measured their enjoyment by the volume of tears on both sides of the footlights, that Miss Picon established an international reputation by playing for laughs. An Idol in Jewish Neighborhoods
        To millions of Jews in major cities of the United States, Europe, South America, Africa and Australia, "our Molly" meant the slender, vivacious comedian with the dark, dancing eyes and elfin face whose songs, dances and mimicry provided hilarious joy. Among the songs she helped turn into hits were "The Story of Grandma's Shawl" and "The Working Goil." She was idolized in Jewish neighborhoods, where children and clubs were named after her during her heyday in the 1920's.
        Hers was the expansive, emotional style that would have been restricted by the colder performances tailored to the realism of Broadway. When she performed her first English-speaking starring role, in 1940 in Sylvia Regan's drama "Morning Star," Brooks Atkinson, who did not care for the show itself, wrote about Miss Picon in The New York Times, "To coin a phrase, she is a darling."
        This was the universal sentiment that she aroused in critics and audiences alike with her talent for generating warmth and rapport. Miss Picon loved the uninhibited audiences of the Yiddish theater.
        She had a flair that averted staleness and repetition. On the Yiddish stage, she used Broadway dance routines as much as possible and flooded the dialogue with English. Jacob Kalich, her husband and colleague from 1919 until his death in 1975, wrote more than 40 scripts for her, and Joseph Rumshinsky, the well-known composer, did most of her music. Mr. Kalich wrote for her one of her most sustained presentations, the play "Yankele," a sort of Yiddish Peter Pan story in which she portrayed a little boy. She later said she had appeared in it 3,000 times, a figure that might be taken merely to mean that it went on quite often. Her Yiddish Was Acquired
        Curiously, Miss Picon had to develop her knowledge of Yiddish. She was born on Broome Street, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, on June 1, 1898, to an immigrant couple. They moved to Philadelphia when she was a child, a migration that made her English sound a bit alien in later years to Jews with the accent of East Side New York.
        At the age of 5, Miss Picon won a teddy bear in a burlesque-house amateur program. Her mother recognized her talent and encouraged her, and young Molly started singing for 50 cents a night.
        At age 15 she joined a Yiddish repertory company and toured as Topsy in "Uncle Tom's Cabin," switching languages -- English or Yiddish -- to suit the ears of the audience. Because she thought of a future in English-language theater, Miss Picon drifted into the cross-country vaudeville circuits, where she perfected her timing and her uncanny instinct for audience response. Made a Film With Sinatra
        Her career changed suddenly when her vaudeville troupe was stranded in Boston. There Mr. Kalich persuaded her to join the Yiddish company he managed. After their marriage she went with him, in 1919, to Eastern Europe, where she perfected her Yiddish. Upon their return in 1923, she made her stage debut as the star of "Yankele."
        In more recent decades, Miss Picon did less Yiddish theater, of which there was less to do. After "Milk and Honey" she worked mostly in English-language undertakings, in such plays as "Paris Is Out" in 1970 and "Something Old, Something New" (later called "The Second Time Around") in 1977 with Hans Conried. She appeared in the films "Come Blow Your Horn," which starred Frank Sinatra, and "For Pete's Sake," with Barbra Streisand.
        In 1959, after an interval of many years, she returned to Second Avenue to star in a Yiddish vehicle, "The Kosher Widow." She wrote the lyrics to the music by Sholom Secunda, and the book was by Mr. Kalich and Louis Freiman. She had two roles in it, and the audience determined the story's outcome with an applause meter.
        Miss Picon was particularly touched in 1946 when she and her husband were among the first entertainers to visit European camps for displaced people.
        As she recalled in an interview years after the visit, "A woman came up with a child and said, 'My child is 2 years old and she has never heard the sound of laughter.' "
        Her husband told Miss Picon: "Molly, that's our job. Make them laugh!"
        In 1960, "Molly!," an autobiography written with Jean Bergantini Grillo, was published by Simon & Schuster.
        Miss Picon is survived by her sister.
        Correction:  April 8, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about the actress and singer Molly Picon misstated the publication date of her autobiography, "Molly!" It was 1980.
      