
        Marlene Dietrich, the film star who embodied not only the fantasies of millions but also aspects of the complex German psyche, was buried today in her native Berlin, where people are still not sure what to make of her.
        Several hundred mourners crowded around the entrance to the small cemetery where Miss Dietrich was laid to rest. When the open black Cadillac carrying her coffin appeared, they applauded, threw flowers and called her name.
        "I loved her because she was always her own person, and never did what people expected her to do," said a young man carrying a single red rose. "That's the same reason why many people here don't like her."
        An elderly woman in the crowd, who said she had come out of curiosity, said she and most of her friends "didn't feel much" for Miss Dietrich.
        "She was a hard person," the woman said. "As far as I know, she never did much of anything for Germany."  'Love-Hate Relationship'
        The funeral marked Miss Dietrich's final return to a country with which she maintained what she once called "a love-hate relationship."
        The world remembers Marlene Dietrich mainly as a composite of the alluring but stubbornly independent heroines she portrayed in screen classics like "The Blue Angel," a star who embodied romance, mystery and eroticism. Germans share those memories, but here Miss Dietrich's legacy is more complicated.
        For many Germans, especially Berliners, Miss Dietrich calls up memories of the turbulent years between the two world wars. She represents the golden era when this country was one of the world's great artistic and intellectual centers, when figures like Bertolt Brecht, Walter Gropius and Albert Einstein were shaking the conventional world.
        When Germany's democratic government collapsed in the early 1930's and the Nazi dictatorship began, Miss Dietrich chose exile. She lived in the United States during the war, and even renounced her German citizenship to become officially American.  She traveled to war zones to entertain and encourage American soldiers who were fighting the Nazi army.  Vowed Never to Return
        Some Germans have never forgiven Miss Dietrich for those choices. On her last visit here in 1960, she had to face anonymous threats, stink bombs and a large banner reading, "Marlene, Go Home." Afterward she vowed never to return to Germany.
        "When I die, I would like to be buried in Paris," she once said. "I would leave my heart to England, and to Germany nothing."
        At a simple graveside service today, a Lutheran minister read the 23d Psalm and lamented the fact that Miss Dietrich "was often not understood in her beloved homeland."
        The police had feared that the funeral would be disrupted by rightist groups offended by Miss Dietrich's anti-Nazi background, but no protests materialized.
        Guests at the funeral included Miss Dietrich's children and grandchildren, along with politicians, diplomats and a handful of longtime friends, among them Maximilian Schell and Hildegard Knef.
        Berlin's Mayor, Eberhard Diepgen, was booed when he appeared. Many Berliners have been angered and disappointed by the city's failure to mount a formal tribute.  Buried Near Her Mother
        Miss Dietrich died in Paris on May 6 at the age of 90. According to her grandson, Pierre Riva, she had not left her room for five years.
        Few had expected that Miss Dietrich would choose to be buried in Berlin. She said in her will that she made the choice because she wanted to lie near her mother, in Friedenau Cemetery in the Schoneberg section of the western part of Berlin.
        Germany's senior political leaders were lavish in their tributes to Miss Dietrich this week.
        "No one understood better than Marlene Dietrich how to combine the cool charm of a 'femme fatale' with a passionate woman's love for life," Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in a statement.
        "She risked a great deal when she turned her back on the Third Reich and resisted countless attempts by the Nazis to lure her back," he added.  "We admire her commitment to freedom and human rights."  Considered Traitor by Some
        Miss Dietrich's return to Berlin for burial has not been universally welcomed. Several letters in newspapers this week described her as a traitor who deserved no public funeral.
        "What did this woman ever do for Berlin?" one letter-writer asked.  "While we were living in misery and poverty, she was living the high life abroad."
        The Berlin official responsible for cultural affairs, Ulrich Roloff-Momin, deplored such statements. He said Miss Dietrich "deserves the thanks of all Germans, because despite many appeals, she refused to be used by the Nazi propaganda machine, and on the contrary showed, together with other emigrants, that Germany was not populated only by Nazis."
        City officials are under heavy criticism for the way they have handled the funeral. At first they announced that a gala tribute to Miss Dietrich's life and work would be held at the Deutsche Theater, where she began her career. But after a day and a half of confusion, they canceled the tribute, saying prominent invitees like James Stewart and Billy Wilder were unable to attend.
        Newspaper columnists described the decision as scandalous and a blow to Berlin's ambition to rejoin the ranks of the world's great cities.  City Elections Due
        Some commentators suggested that Mayor Diepgen and other leaders of the conservative Christian Democratic Union did not want to mount a major tribute to a figure who is unpopular in some rightist circles.  City elections are to be held next weekend.
        Admirers of Miss Dietrich have been eager to show their respect. The Green party, for instance, issued a call to members to pause for one minute today to reflect on her example.
        Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany."
        "Mary Magedelene Dietrich is dead, but Marlene Dietrich remains," Miss Schygulla wrote. "The Blue Angel does not die."
      