
        Dr. Alexandra Symonds, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was deeply involved in broadening the consideration of women's issues in her field, died on May 20 at her home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. She was 73 years old.
        Dr. Symonds died of pancreatic cancer, said Lily Harmon, her sister-in-law.
        This month Dr. Symonds, a Fellow and former Trustee of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, received the organization's Presidential Award for Distinguished Service and Scientific Contributions.
        Dr. Symonds earned a bachelor's degree at New York University in 1940 and a master's degree in pscyhology from the University of Wisconsin in 1944. She earned a medical degree from New York Medical College in 1948 and served her internship and residency at the Marine Hospital on Staten Island and at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. Dr. Symonds developed a long relationship with Bellevue Hospital.
        In addition to her private practice, Dr. Symonds, at the time of her death, was an associate attending in psychiatry at Bellevue. She was also an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine, an associate psychoanalyst at the Karen Horney Clinic and a lecturer in family counseling at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was also the author of many articles on loneliness in adolescents, the problems of obesity and women's issues.
        Dr. Symonds was a Life Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and chair of its Women's Caucus. She was also founder and first president of the Association of Women Psychiatrists and editor of its publication, News for Women in Psychiatry.
        Among many honors, Dr. Symonds was a recipient of the Susan B. Anthony award of the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women, and the first recipient of the Association of Women Psychiatrists' Alexandra Symonds Award for her efforts on behalf of women.
        Dr. Symonds is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin Symonds, a psychiatrist and deputy chief surgeon of the New York City Police Department; a sister, Edith Zuaro, of Long Island, two brothers, Milton Schacter and Dr. Sherman Schacter, both of Manhattan, two nephews and three nieces.
      