
        Lydia Joel, the former editor in chief of Dance Magazine and head of the dance department at the School of Performing Arts, died on Sunday at New York Hospital She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of leukemia, said her husband, Edwin Miller.
        As teacher and journalist, Miss Joel helped to increase appreciation of dance as an art and to raise standards of dance writing and training. Appointed editor in chief of Dance Magazine in 1952, she began to emphasize serious criticism, essays, photographic features and foreign reports. As a result, a publication that had previously been read largely by performers and teachers came to appeal to the general dance audience.
        Through her early teaching activities in Texas, she acknowledged the importance of fostering dance across America. And at the School of Performing Arts in New York, she supervised a program that prepared young people for professional careers.  Studied Two Methods
        Miss Joel, whose maiden name was Tarnower, was born in New York City. She received a bachelor's degree in English from New York University and did additional graduate work at Cornell University. She studied ballet at the School of American Ballet and modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg and Hanya Holm, two leaders of the German modern dance that flourished before World War II. She also attended summer sessions of the Bennington (Vt.) School of Dance, the forerunner of today's American Dance Festival.
        At Bennington in 1937, Miss Joel danced in the premiere of "Trend," Miss Holm's monumentally scaled depiction of social conflicts. In New York that same year, Miss Joel appeared in Max Reinhardt's production of "The Eternal Road."
        She taught in 1938 at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth and from 1938 to 1944 at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where she headed her own company.
        Her first husband was the conductor Gerhard Joel; he died in 1946 but she retained Joel as her professional name. She married Mr. Miller, the entertainment editor of Seventeen magazine, in 1953.
        Miss Joel joined the staff of Dance Magazine in 1947, working in the editorial and advertising departments. When she left the publication in 1969, the staff, under her guidance, had grown from 4 to 15 people.
        Miss Joel directed the dance department of the School of Performing Arts from 1973 until her retirement in 1984, producing the high school's annual concerts and arranging a performance by 12 of its students at the Spoleto Festival in Italy in 1982.
        She served on the board of directors of the American College Dance Festival, the Association of American Dance Companies and the National Association for Regional Ballet, and contributed articles to Vogue, Parents Magazine and other publications. In recent years, she lectured and wrote about Catherine de' Medici, the Renaissance monarch who influenced the development of ballet in European courts.
        In addition to her husband, Miss Joel is survived by a son, Eric Miller of Manhattan, and three brothers, Irving Tarnower of Teaneck, N.J., Dr. William Tarnower of Topeka, Kans., and Gerald Tarnower of Dallas.
      