
        Elizabeth David, a food writer credited with almost single-handedly changing the cooking in her native England, died on Friday at her home in London. She was 78 years old.
        She died of a stroke, British press reports said.
        Alice Waters, who is often described as the mother of modern American cooking, said Mrs. David was her greatest inspiration. "When I go back and read her book now," Ms. Waters said, "I feel I plagiarized them. All of it seeped in so much, it's embarrassing to read them now."
        Grand dame of the kitchen, doyenne of modern cookery, expert on Mediterranean cookery, Mrs. David first displayed her importance with the publication of "A Book of Mediterranean Food," in 1950. The ration-weary English could barely buy enough to eat but they were enchanted by her descriptions of meals that included eggs, butter, seafood, tomatoes, olives, apricots, ingredients that were difficult, or impossible, to obtain. Foods that are taken for granted today in England -- garlic, olive oil, Parmigiano Reggiano -- were unknown and generally viewed with suspicion before Mrs. David.  Renown Spreads in Britain
        The following year "French Country Cooking" was published, followed in 1954 by "Italian Food," "Summer Cooking," in 1955 and "French Provincial Cooking" in 1960. Articles in Vogue, House & Garden, The Sunday Times and The Spectator helped to spread her influence throughout a country whose culinary renown has been generally confined to fish and chips and spotted Dick.
        Her evocative writings drew her fans to undiscovered but enticing worlds.
        "In other markets, on other shores, the unfamiliar fishes may be vivid, mysterious, repellant, fascinating and bright with splendid color," she wrote in "Italian Food." "Only in Venice do they look good enough to eat. In Venice even ordinary sole and ugly great skate are striped with delicate lilac lights, the sardines shine like newly minted silver coins, pink Venetian scampi are fat and fresh, infinitely enticing in the early dawn."
        But Mrs. David's books were always about more than just food. "Her esthetic is about simplicity and a kind of fragrance," Ms. Waters said. "She had a great sense of the seasons and always about life around the table -- the setting, the conversation. It was always more than just the food because her recipes were not very specific, to say the least. I remember being frustrated, but it made you think.
        "She was saying something pretty profound about the recipe process -- that food changes all the time. It's never, never the same. The climate, the location, all made a difference." White Truffles at Olney's
        Richard Olney, an American food and wine writer who lives in France, met Mrs. David in the early 1970's when he was living in London. Mr. Olney, whose book, "Simple French Food," (reprinted by Macmillan in 1992) also had a remarkable impact on American cooking, said Mrs. David's writing style, the lack of specificity in her recipes, did not appeal to American publishers, and delayed her fame in this country.
        In 1979, he introduced Mrs. David to Ms. Waters, who, 10 years before, had hung around her shop just to get a glimpse of her but never had the courage to introduce herself. The three of them had a six-hour white truffle lunch at Mr. Olney's apartment. "I bought a huge jar of white truffles from Italy," recalled Ms. Waters. "There must have been five the size of golf balls. We shaved them over the top of sausages. We shaved them over equal parts of Parmesan cheese. We had them over pasta, with an omelet, with olive oil and toast. It was a truffle extravaganza."
        Eventually some of Mrs. David's friends persuaded her to visit the United States, a country about which she was "a little bit snobbish," said Mr. Olney. "She was treated like a star and she adored it, but she would never admit it."
        Born to the English upper class, her studies at the Sorbonne forever altered her destiny. She lived with a Parisian family that she later described as "both exceptionally greedy and exceptionally well-fed." She forgot what she had learned at the university and tried, instead, to recreate the food to which she had been exposed.
        When she returned to England she worked briefly as an actress, then as a sales clerk for Worth. Her brief marriage in 1944 to Anthony David, a British Army officer, was childless.
        In 1965, she opened a kitchen shop that bore her name and in 1970 published "Spices, Salt and Aromatics in the English Kitchen." Three years later she severed her connections with the shop after a falling out with her partners. Her last cook book, "English Bread and Yeast Cookery," appeared in 1973. Unlike her earlier books it was more for reference than reading. Her last book, "An Omelette and a Glass of Wine," a collection of earlier writings, was published in 1984.
        "She had an appreciation of all that was simple and fresh," said Mr. Olney. "There was a complete lack of interest in anything pretentious. She was wonderfully, wickedly witty. She made fun of everything, but she was never cruel."
        There were no immediate survivors.
      