
        Sylvia Syms, one of the most admired pop-jazz singers of her generation, died of a heart attack in Manhattan early yesterday morning after a performance in the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel. Moments after she had finished singing a program of songs associated with her longtime friend Frank Sinatra, the 74-year-old singer and actress collapsed and was taken to St. Clare's Hospital, where she was pronounced dead on arrival.
        "It was at the very end of the second show, and she was getting a standing ovation," said Steve La Spina, her bass player. "She put her right hand up, and the next thing we knew she fell back and hit the ground."
        With her deep, grainy contralto, I've-been-through-it-all air of sophistication, and sinuous phrasing that echoed her idol, Billie Holiday, Miss Syms was a quintessential saloon singer, a term she said she preferred to cabaret singer. In the saloon tradition of Mr. Sinatra, she treated everything she sang as an intimate personal communication.
        "When you perform it's a one-to-one love affair with the people out there," she once said. "That's how it has to be."
        Although she enjoyed only one bona fide pop hit, "I Could Have Danced All Night," from the musical "My Fair Lady," in 1956, among musicians and a coterie of admirers she had a stature that was matched by perhaps only a dozen other veteran popular singers.
        Foremost among those admirers was Mr. Sinatra, who produced and conducted her 1982 album of standards, "Syms by Sinatra," for Reprise Records. Not long after they met in the 1940's, Mr. Sinatra gave the plump, moon-faced singer the nickname "Buddha." She in turn referred to him by his full name, Francis Albert. Miss Syms took credit for giving Billie Holiday her trademark gardenia as camouflage after the legendary jazz singer had burned her hair with a curling iron.
        Miss Syms was born on Dec. 2, 1917, in Flatbush, Brooklyn. She was only 15 years old when she discovered the jazz clubs of West 52d Street and became friendly with many of the musicians who performed in them. She inaugurated her nightclub career at Kelly's Stable in 1941. Five years later, she made her first recording, "I'm in the Mood for Love," with the Freddie Greene Band. The Clubs and the Labels
        It was while appearing at the Cinderella Club in Greenwich Village in 1948 that she was discovered by Mae West, who gave her the part of Flo the Shoplifter in a revival of "Diamond Lil." Favorable notices from the show helped propel her into a dual career in nightclubs and the theater. Her musical comedy roles included Bloody Mary in regional productions of "South Pacific" and Dolly Gallagher Levi in a regional production of "Hello, Dolly!" Her favorite stage role was Gypsy in Tennessee Williams's "Camino Real," which she performed at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles and later at Lincoln Center.
        In a nightclub career that spanned 51 years, the New York rooms in which she performed included the Bon Soir, the Ruban Bleu, the Living Room, the Village Vanguard, the Cafe Carlyle, Freddy's, Michael's Pub, the Cookery, Marty's, and Eighty-Eight's.
        Miss Syms recorded 15 albums for Decca, Columbia, Atlantic and Prestige, among other labels. Her most recent recording, "Along Came Bill," a tribute to the jazz pianist Bill Evans, was released in 1990 on DRG. She recently completed her final recording, "You Must Believe in Spring: The Words of Alan and Marilyn Bergman," which Cabaret Records is to release next month.
        She is survived by a brother, Burton Blagman, of Wyckoff, N.J., and a sister, Muriel Bailey of Chesterfield, Mo.
        A funeral service is to be held today at 2:30 P.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      