
        Josephine Hartford Bryce, a philanthropist, sportswoman and musician, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 88 years old.
        She had been bedridden and in declining health for six months, but the exact cause of her death was unclear, said her son-in-law, Senator Claiborne Pell, the Rhode Island Democrat.
        Mrs. Bryce was a granddaughter of George Huntington Hartford, the founder of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, and she was a longtime trustee of the John A. Hartford Foundation, which donates money for medical research. Active in Horse Racing
        She was active in horse racing for decades, and numerous horses that she owned raced at Saratoga, Belmont and Aquaduct in the United States and also in Britain. Her racing colors were red and orange, and she owned Mill River Stable in South Arlington, Vt., and had a horse-breeding establishment at Moyns Park in Essex County north of London. Her best-known horses included Miss Grillo, the winner of the Pimlico Cup in 1948, and Chop Chop, a leading sire in Canada.
        She was also the owner of the Vamarie, a two-masted trans-Atlantic sailing yacht that won races before she presented it to the United States Naval Academy. She was also an early airplane pilot and a tournament tennis player.
        Mrs. Bryce was a cosmopolitan figure. She was the daughter of Princess Guido Pignatelli and Edward V. Hartford, who was an inventor and president of the Hartford Shock Absorber Company. She attended schools in New York and in Paris, where she also studied piano under Isador Philippe. She went on to become a concert pianist.
        Her marriage in 1923 to Charles Oliver O'Donnell ended in divorce, as did her marriage in 1931 to Vadim Makaroff and her marriage in 1936 to Barclay K. Douglas. She was married in 1950 to John F. C. Bryce. He died in 1985.
        Mrs. Bryce is survived by a brother, Huntington Hartford 2d of Manhattan; a daughter, Nuala O'Donnell Pell of Newport, R.I. and Washington; a son, Columbus O'Donnell of London; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      