
        Jacqueline Smith, a television producer who led ABC Entertainment's daytime programming to six consecutive years of top ratings from 1978 through 1983, died on June 3 at her home. She was 59 years old and lived in Santa Monica, Calif.
        She died of cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Smith had also worked at CBS and NBC, where she oversaw daytime programming until last year. She was known in the industry for creating concepts in story development and production quality and for furthering the talents of actors and casting directors. Awards for Children's Programming
        Ms. Smith was a native of Philadelphia, and attended Antioch College before starting her broadcasting career as a writer and producer at KPIX, the CBS affiliate in San Francisco. She received three Peabody Awards for children's programming there.
        In 1963, the CBS network put her in charge of all its children's programming. She later became the director of special programs for the network in Hollywood, overseeing variety specials, award shows and dramatic specials.
        Ms. Smith joined ABC in 1977 and, as a vice president, was responsible for the production, writing and performances on its daytime serials "All My Children," "Ryan's Hope," "One Life to Live" and "General Hospital." She enlisted guest appearances by many celebrities, Elizabeth Taylor among them, and wove aspects of adventure, fantasy, comedy and science-fiction into the accustomed fare of romance and family crises.
        She stepped down in 1987, remained as a consultant for another year, and then formed her own company, Pygmalion Productions. She returned to the network wars to take charge of daytime programming for NBC Entertainment for two years until 1991.
        Ms. Smith's companion was Ed Fisher, the cartoonist.
        She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      