
        M. F. K. Fisher, the writer whose artful personal essays about food created a genre, died yesterday afternoon at her home on the Bouverie Ranch in Glen Ellen, Calif. She was 83 years old.
        She died after a lengthy battle with Parkinson's disease, her daughter Kennedy Wright said. "I think it was probably the effects of the disease coupled with the fact that she was 83 years old," Ms. Wright said.
        In a career spanning more than 60 years, Mrs. Fisher wrote hundreds of stories for The New Yorker, as well as 15 books of essays and reminisences. She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
        While other food writers limited their writing to the particulars of individual dishes or expositions of the details of cuisine, Mrs. Fisher used food as a cultural metaphor.
        Her subject matter, she said in an interview in 1990, "caused serious writers and critics to dismiss me for many, many years. It was woman's stuff, a trifle." But she was not deterred. In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me":
        "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking? Why don't you write about the struggle for power and security, and about love, the way others do. They ask it accusingly, as if I were somehow gross, unfaithful to the honor of my craft.
        "The easiest answer is to say that, like most humans, I am hungry. But there is more than that. It seems to me that our three basic needs, for food and security and love are so mixed and mingled and entwined that we cannot straightly think of one without the others. So it happens that when I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and the hunger for it."
        In 1963, W. H. Auden called her "America's greatest writer." In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century."
        Mrs. Fisher's work has been steadily re-collected and re-released and her books sell briskly. "M. F. K.", an hourlong docummentary by a California filmmaker, Barbara Wornum, released in 1992, is a comprehensive view of Mrs. Fisher. Ms. Wornum followed Mrs. Fisher for four years, she said, because the single mother and writer "is the most poetic voice of the working woman in the 20th century."
        Mrs. Fisher was the first child of Rex Kennedy, a small-town newspaper owner, and his wife, Edith. Mrs. Fisher wrote of her entrance into the world: "I began in Albion, Mich., and was born there on July 3, 1908, in a heat wave. I leapt forth only a few minutes before midnight, in a supreme effort from my mother, whose husband had assured her that I would be named Independencia if I arrived on the Fourth."
        She had two younger sisters, Anne, who died in 1965, and Norah, and a brother, David, who died in 1942. Before she entered kindergarten, Mrs. Fisher's father purchased The Whittier News, a newspaper in Whittier, a predominently Quaker town near Los Angeles, where the Kennedy clan grew up "on the outside looking in," she said.  She was an Episcopalian, and, she said, she was never invited to the home of a Quaker.
        "Episcopalians were the third world in Whittier," she said in a recent interview. "I wrote a book about my childhood, and I wanted to call it 'Child of an Inner Ghetto.' " Lessons From the Family Cook
        Instead, the book, which was published in 1970, was called "Among Friends." On its cover, a sepia-toned family photograph shows Edith Kennedy, tall, hatted and veiled, looking into the distance, her arm protecting a pouting Anne. Mary Frances stood alone, biting her full, lower lip, staring at the camera. "I was a haughty child," she told an interviewer.
        She was removed enough to become a keen observer, and her sharp blue eyes remained pinned on significant moments of communion. She described herself, a well-loved little girl, by depicting a meal that her mother once served: "deep rich, floating puddles of hot cocoa for supper, with buttered toast sogging deliciously in them."
        Her tastes and her eye for nuance continued to sharpen through adolescence. Apprenticing with the family cook, she became accomplished in the kitchen.
        She also became, she said, "an insatiable reader and scribbler." After brief sojourns at Illinois College, Whittier College, Occidental College and the University of California at Los Angeles, she married a doctoral student, Alfred Fisher, in 1929 and moved to Dijon, France, where he would complete his doctorate in literature.
        A beauty and an enchantress, Mrs. Fisher was photographed by Man Ray, but by her own lights, she said, "I wasn't so pretty that I didn't have to do something else." She said she "spent hours in my kitchen cooking for people, trying to blast their safe, tidy little lives with a tureen of hot borscht and some garlic-toast and salad, instead of the fruit cocktail, fish, meat, vegetable, salad, dessert and coffee they tuck daintily away seven times a week."
        Her writing had the same ornery passion, the same impetuous urge to soothe her readers, while shaking their souls. Her first book, "Serve it Forth," published by Harper Brothers in 1937, took America by the shoulders and said, "Look, if you have to eat to live, you may was well enjoy it." The theme was repeated in "Consider the Oyster," which was published by Duell, Sloan & Pearce in 1941. Food Sensual and Practical
        Her ebullient embrace of the slow, sensual pleasures of the table was matched by her cool acceptance of sudden violence and evil. In a 1942 review of "How to Cook a Wolf," in The New York Herald Tribune, Lewis Gannett wrote that anyone familiar with the writer's earlier work "will recall the faintly Gothic perversity that makes Mrs. Fisher's literature unique."
        Mrs. Fisher, on the other hand, saw herself as practical. In "How to Cook a Wolf," for instance, she suggested that when the wolf is at the door, one should invite him and have him for dinner.
        In 1943, she published "The Gastronomical Me," (Duell, Sloan & Pearce) followed by "Here Let Us Feast (Viking) in 1946. Her novel, "Not Now But Now," was published by Viking in 1947. Her translation from French of "The Physiology of Taste" was published in 1949, the same year that "An Alphabet for Gourmets" appeared.
        "A Cordiall Water," a slender volume of folk cures, was published by Little, Brown in 1961. Three years later, the same publisher brought out "A Map of Another Town," a reminiscence of the years she spent in Aix-en-Provence. In 1968, Putnam published "With Bold Knife and Fork," and Mrs. Fisher joined Julia Child and Michael Field as consultants to the Time-Life book "The Cooking of Provencal France."
        Throughout these decades, the peripatetic writer and cook lived in California, Switzerland and France, weathered three marriages and reared two daughters. Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941. Her daughter, Anna, was born in 1943 and in 1945, she married Donald Friede, a literary agent. Her second daughter, Kennedy, was born in 1946, and she divorced Mr. Fried two years later. An Appetite for Writing
        In 1952, Mrs. Fisher and her sister, Norah, rented houses on neighboring vineyards in St. Helena, Calif., an area that, with the exceptions of stays in the South of France, would remain home.
        In 1971, she moved to Bouverie Ranch in Glen Ellen, where her house of two sprawling rooms became a salon for visiting writers and food worshipers. She made her final trip to Europe in 1978, writing about Marseilles in "A Considerable Town," published that year by Viking.
        Since then, Mrs. Fisher has worked and entertained at Bouverie Ranch. "My life is simple," she said in an interview several years ago. "When I can't write, I read. When I can't read I cook."
        Bedridden in recent years, she cooked less and less. But she continued to write. "Sister Age," was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1983. Northpoint Press (which released new editions of many of her earlier books), published "Dubious Honors," a collection of introductions that Mrs. Fisher wrote for others' books. "The Boss Dog," a book for children, was published by Northpoint in 1991.
        In an interview in 1991 she said: "I've lost my appetite. But my mind and heart have never been clearer."
        Plagued by diminishing sight and crippling arthritis, her voice reduced to a whisper by Parkinson's disease, she spoke of waking up before 4 A.M. and writing stories in her mind for the hours before her secretary came in to take dictation. According to her agent, Robert Lescher, the writer "has been working on a number of manuscripts which will be published posthumously."
        "The purpose of living is to get old enough to have something to say," she said last year. "But by that time, your voice doesn't work and your hands won't obey you so it's tough as hell to find a way to say it all."
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by her sister, Norah Barr; two daughters, Anna Parrish, of Portland, Ore., and Ms. Wright of Alameda, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      