
        Sister Margaret Carthy, former president of the College of New Rochelle and dean of its graduate school, died on Sunday at the Marian Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 80 years old.
        She was known as Mother Mary Peter during her long career as a Roman Catholic college administrator.
        She had Alzheimer's disease and died of pneumonia, said Sister Eileen Fane, prioress of the Convent of St. Teresa, an Ursuline community in New Rochelle.
        Sister Margaret was born and raised in Manhattan and graduated from the College of New Rochelle in 1933. She worked for several years in the business office at Teachers College at Columbia University but, after taking her vows in the Order of St. Ursuline in 1939, she returned to New Rochelle to teach at the Ursuline School. A Former Dean
        Sister Margaret began her years in the administration at the College of New Rochelle as assistant registrar in 1941 and served as dean of the college from 1950 to 1957 and then as president until 1961. She earned a master's and, in 1957, a Ph.D. in American church history at Catholic University in Washington.
        She added a master's degree in theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1962 and worked for four years as staff editor of The New Catholic Encyclopedia while also lecturing at Catholic University. She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
        In 1975, she returned to her alma mater to accept the post of dean of the graduate school, which she held until her retirement in 1979.
        Both before and after her retirement, Sister Margaret wrote articles and books about American church history, including "Catholicism in English-Speaking Lands" (Hawthorn Books, 1964). Much of her writing focused on the Archdiocese of New York, including "A Cathedral of Suitable Magnificence" (St. Patrick's, 1984). In addition, she served as archivist for the Eastern Province of the Ursulines.
        She is survived by a sister, Mary Connolly of Jericho, L.I., and many nieces and nephews.
      