
        Margaretha Ley, chief designer and co-founder of Escada AG, the German women's apparel company known for colorful, highly decorated sportswear, died last Thursday in Munich after a long illness.
        Mrs. Ley lived in Munich. The company would not disclose her age or cause of death, but she underwent intestinal surgery in recent months.
        Mrs. Ley and her husband, Wolfgang Ley, founded Escada in 1979 and built it into an international company that had sales topping $800 million last year. They took the name Escada, which means staircase in Portuguese, from a racehorse, believing it boded well for their future. There are 140 Escada boutiques around the world, including a six-story shop that opened on 57th Street in New York last November. The clothes are also sold in 1,200 specialty and department stores around the world.
        In addition to the Escada label, the company also manufactures women's clothing under the Crisca, Laurel, Apriori and Natalie Acatrini labels, produces the Cerruti 1881 women's collection under a licensing agreement and owns a majority percentage of St. John Knits, a California knitwear concern, and Badgley-Mischka, a New York company known for evening wear. The company also makes accessories, luggage, small leather goods and a perfume called Escada. The Leys took Escada public in 1986, retaining 51 percent of the voting stock.
        In recent years, Mrs. Ley directed a team of designers who turned out 1,200 styles each season under the Escada label alone. The clothes are divided into color groups, with coordinating shoes, scarfs, gloves and jewelry. New merchandise is shipped to stores every two weeks. Prices are in the upper bracket, with jackets averaging $1,000.
        Born in Sweden, Mrs. Ley worked as a model in Stockholm, Vienna and Paris before turning to design. She designed for Mondi, a German sportswear manufacturer, for 10 years before founding Escada with her husband, whom she had married in 1974.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Sven Ley, of Munich, and two children from a previous marriage, Karin Srb, of Munich, and Kristian Srb, of Water Mill, N.Y.
      