
        Mollie Parnis, the fashion designer, whose Park Avenue living room was as well known to actors, journalists and Democrats as her Seventh Avenue showroom was to the women who bought her dresses, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. She was in her early 90's but had long refused to disclose her exact age.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said a close friend, the writer Richard Clurman.
        Born to a poor immigrant family in New York City before the turn of the century, she started working at odd jobs when she was 8 years old, and eventually built a multimillion-dollar dress business. But her interests ranged well beyond her Garment District cutting rooms. She became a skilled collector of art and of people and contributed some of her fortune to the beautification of New York and Jerusalem.
        Dresses she designed were worn by First Ladies from Mamie Eisenhower to Betty Ford. Lady Bird Johnson became a a close friend and one year, one of Miss Parnis's designs was bought by four Kennedys in four separate cities.
        In her office, Miss Parnis kept photographs of First Ladies wearing her designs posed with their husbands, as well as a signed photograph of Lyndon B. Johnson in a shirt she had made for him. To four Presidents, she was Mollie, but as often as she was invited to the White House, she said she could never get over the thrill of being in what she called "the President's house."  Simple Beginnings
        With nothing more than a high school education and an upbringing that taught her that she would have to work for everything she would ever get, Miss Parnis started her career in New York in a blouse showroom. In no time, she had her name on the door, and then, in partnership with a man she met in school and later married, built a dress business that in its best years grossed $10 million.
        But Seventh Avenue held no interest for her after working hours. "The last thing I want to talk about is what people are wearing," she once told an interviewer. She began to gather the most interesting people she knew at the Park Avenue duplex she moved into with her husband, Leon J. Livingston, in 1941. First she took up with movie stars, who were as eager to have her come to Hollywood as they were to visit her in New York.
        Kirk Douglas and his wife, Anne, remained lifelong friends, but when the Hollywood crowd started to lose interest for her, she began a more lasting relationship with writers around the city. With the journalists came the politicians, and Mollie Parnis's salon was born.
        Partly because of the company she kept, Miss Parnis keenly felt the absence of a college education. "My greatest regret is my lack of a formal education," she once told Life magazine. "I admire people who are able to express themselves well and who grasp facts fast. I read very slowly and have no background in literature or history or anything. When I'm reading, I often stop to look up a word that should be part of my vocabulary."
        Even when she was in her 80's, she would sometimes wake at 7 A.M. to read books and newspapers so she could comment on the columns with the best of them. "What did you think of Scotty Reston's piece about Nixon and Kissinger?" she asked one day, and then began a crisp summary of her own very strong opinion. Although she tended to socialize mainly with Democrats, she made an exception for Henry Kissinger and his wife Nancy, Republicans who were among the New York social lions who liked to go to "Mollie's."
        A sharp judge of character, she had a rapier tongue and a distinctive, commanding voice that she used to prick pretension. For her, impatience became a virtue as she cut off the longwinded and went on to someone or something she found more interesting. Sowing Urban Green
        Through the Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation of New York, Miss Parnis gave away at least a million and a half dollars. An early project was giving "Dress Up Your Neighborhood" prizes that helped create vest-pocket parks and green areas in decaying New York neighborhoods. It was patterned on a similar prize she had contributed to the city of Jerusalem.
        After the death in 1979 of her only son, Robert Livingston, who for a time had been the publisher of More magazine, she established the Livingston Awards for newspaper, magazine and television journalists under 35 years old. Each year, $5,000 prizes are given to three journalists. Charles Eisendrath, a professor at the University of Michigan, who oversaw the journalism prize, said the award grew out of her admiration for members of the press.
        "She collected journalists all her life," he said. "She collected them in the best sense: She loved them, she mothered them, she hectored them and she fed them. And they genuinely loved her."
        Mollie Parnis was born on the Lower East Side in New York City on March 18. The year was noted in her official biography as 1905, but even Miss Parnis admitted that the date was "close" but certainly not precise. Throughout her life she was militantly unspecific about her age. Some of her friends believed she turned 90 in 1987. She liked to say she was of a certain age, with "a life expectancy of five minutes."
        She was the eldest of five children of Abraham and Sara Parnis, who she said had emigrated from Austria before the turn of the century. Miss Parnis grew up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She said she attended Wadleigh High School and later, Julia Richmond. She remembered that when she was 8, she tutored foreigners in English for 25 cents an hour.  A Desperate First Design
        She said she got some notion that she might want to go into fashion in high school. A beau had invited her to a football game, and she badgered her mother to buy her a new outfit. "She took me down to Division Street and got me a navy dress," she said some seven decades later. "I still remember it. Blue serge." After the football game, she said, her date offered to take her dancing and suggested she go home and change. But she was wearing the only dress she had, so she took a scissors, cut the neckline, took a lace collar from a blouse of her mother's and added an artificial flower. It was her first design.
        In 1923, she became an assistant saleswoman in the showroom of a blouse manufacturer. Occasionally, she made suggestions to the designers -- a change of neckline, a jabot, a frill, a different sleeve. One summer, when she made a $20,000 sale to one customer, she asked for a raise. Her boss made a counterproposal -- her name in the lobby directory.
        "Well," Miss Parnis said, "you don't know what that did for me. I got so excited over it I had all my friends come over to Seventh Avenue to look at 'Mollie Parnis, fourth floor.' It was like an actress having her name up in lights the first time."
        Meanwhile, the fellow who took her to the football game was in the silk business and she figured that if she worked in a dress house where they used silk she might see him more often. It worked out just as she had hoped. She and Leon Livingston were married in 1930 and in 1933, in the midst of the Great Depression, they went into business together. Miss Parnis, who could neither sketch nor cut nor drape, became the designer. Mr. Livingston handled the business aspects. They were successful from the start.
        As their business prospered, Miss Parnis hired other designers, but she remained the fashion editor. "Over the years," she once said, "as many designers as we've had, the clothes always looked like Mollie Parnis." That meant versatile, comfortable dresses in good fabrics. They were fashionable but not trendy. She counseled women to avoid fads. "I've always had a theory," she told an interviewer, "that good designing doesn't mean dresses you have to throw away every year. Things shouldn't go out of date overnight." A Brief Closing
        When Miss Parnis's husband died in 1962, she went out of business. But only for three months. "Then," she said, "I went out to dinner one night with a gentleman who asked when I was going to open my showroom again. I said, 'Maybe never.' And he said, 'Oh, my God! The only thing that made you a little different was that you worked. Don't you know that widows in this town with a little money are a dime a dozen?' Well, I got back into business so fast, I can't tell you."
        Miss Parnis said when she was growing up she had no notion of the world "out there" -- the world of wealth and society. But as her business prospered, she quickly learned how to design her life as well as she designed dresses. In time, Mollie Parnis became her own best creation. There was the apartment on Park Avenue ("When we first walked in there to look I could hardly believe I was there -- 'Park Avenue' I kept marveling to myself").
        Then there was the country house in Katonah, in Westchester County. ("We had a tennis court and one of the first swimming pools in the East. Swimming pools in those days were for Hollywood.") There was the collection of fine china, the decorator (Billy Baldwin) and finally, the Impressionist paintings -- by Picasso, Vuillard, Roualt, Utrillo, Cezanne, Soutine, and her most prized possession, a Matisse.
        When Miss Parnis heard that a friend was selling the Matisse she had admired she immediately agreed to buy it. She remembered that she went into her husband's office and said she had just bought a Matisse. "Well, unbuy it," she said he told her. Moments later a friend came by and saw her crying. "Why don't you go down to the bank and borrow the money," he suggested.
        She said that it had never occurred to her that she could go to the bank herself, without her husband, and get a loan. She borrowed $25,000 and got her Matisse. Its estimated worth is tens of millions of dollars today.
        It was the same Matisse she pledged to the Israel Museum in honor of Jerusalem's mayor, Teddy Kollek, on his 70th birthday. Years later, she had misgivings and decided it should go into her estate.
        In 1984, when her dresses were selling for $350 to $1,500, she closed her Seventh Avenue showroom. Within weeks, she went back to work once again, designing Mollie Parnis At-Home fashions in a company that had been started by her sister Peggy and was then owned by her nephew, Neal Hochman.
        Mr. Hochman, her closest relative, survives her. In accordance with her wishes, a private cremation will take place. A memorial service will be held in September.
      