
        Helen M. Knubel, archivist of the Lutheran Church, died on Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 91 years old. She lived in New Rochelle, N.Y., until she recently entered the Wartburg Nursing Home, in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        Miss Knubel died of respiratory failure, said her nephew, Frederick H. Knubel.
        Miss Knubel was considered the foremost archivist of the history of the Lutheran Church in North America. She helped to gather and maintain records of the earliest settlements of Lutherans in the United States and Canada and organized the library and archives of the National Lutheran Council, which coordinated the service work of more than 30 Lutheran groups.
        From 1954 to 1966 she was secretary of research and statistics of the National Lutheran Council. From 1967 to her retirement in 1971, she was associate director of the Office of Research, Statistics and Archives to the council's successor, the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. She also founded and directed the Oral History of Cooperative Lutheranism in America.
        Miss Knubel was born in New York City. Her father, Frederick H. Knubel, was president of the United Church in America, from its founding in 1918 to 1944. Her brother, Frederick R. Knubel, was president of the United Lutheran Synod of New York and New England from 1945 to 1957.
        Miss Knubel's formal schooling was interrupted at age 15, when she was struck by polio, which forced her to use a wheelchair for the rest of her life. She studied at the New School for Social Research; the Biblical Seminary of New York, the predecessor to the New York Theological Seminary, and the Columbia University School of Library Service.
        Among many honors, Miss Knubel was awarded the Distinguished Disciple Award of the Metropolitan New York Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.
        In addition to her nephew, Frederick H. Knubel, of Manhattan, she is survived by a niece, Helen Perry, of Milford, N.J.
      