
        Lillian Vorhaus Oppenheimer, who made origami, the intricate Japanese art of paper-folding, popular in the United States, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died after a heart operation, her family said.
        Mrs. Oppenheimer started doing origami in 1930 to entertain her daughter Molly, who was suffering from meningitis, and quietly continued it as a hobby.
        That suddenly changed when a burst of publicity starting in 1958 featured her in newspapers and on national radio and television. Mail and calls poured in from experts and novices alike.
        So she founded the Origami Center of America in her Gramercy Park penthouse and spawned other branches, saying, "Why should the Japanese have all the fun?" Today, about 30 countries have origami societies -- her daughter Rosaly co-founded those in England and Israel -- with annual conventions. The Magic of Paper
        Mrs. Oppenheimer taught origami to kindergartners, scout troops, Yale students, corporate executives and nursing home residents.
        "She saw magic in a piece of paper," the Friends of the Origami Center said. Meyer Berger wrote in The New York Times in 1958: "Jewels form under her fingers."
        As the art's popularity spread, the American Museum of Natural History began decorating its Christmas tree with origami in 1972, starting a collection that grew to 5,000 adornments. Origami even proved useful to therapists. One handicapped teen-ager's first words -- "I made it" -- were uttered upon completing an origami object.
        Origami, with ancient roots in China, entails folding paper into two- or three-dimensional objects in varied geometric, abstract, fantasy and real-life forms, from geodesic balls to umbrellas to dragons to ducks. Experts can do a simple piece in less than a minute; elaborate ones take hours.
        Mrs. Oppenheimer was also a noted puppeteer, giving presentations into her late 80's, and was also active in the Storytelling Center of New York. Sometimes she combined all three interests, using origami puppets to tell stories. She wrote books on origami and puppets, including three with the puppeteer Shari Lewis.
        Mrs. Oppenheimer was married to Joseph B. Kruskal and later to Harry C. Oppenheimer, both now deceased.
        She is survived by three sons by Mr. Kruskal, William H. of Chicago, Martin David of Princeton, N.J., and Joseph Jr. of Maplewood, N.J., and a daughter, Rosaly Evnine of Jerusalem; four stepsons by Mr. Oppenheimer, Peter, of Walnut Creek, Calif., Jack, of Sonoma, Calif., Philip, of South Norwalk, Conn., and Herbert, of Manhattan; 26 grandchildren, and 30 great-grandchildren.
      