
        Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old.
        Her death resulted from complications of AIDS, her family said. She had talked openly of her illness, which she attributed to heterosexual transmission, and even before she knew she would be stricken, she was active in AIDS organizations because of the epidemic's toll on colleagues and friends.
        Mrs. Chow, known professionally as Tina Chow, began her career at the age of 16, modeling for Shiseido, a leading cosmetics company in Japan. Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles. She was a favorite model of Cecil Beaton, among other photographers.
        In the early 1970's, she married Michael Chow and worked with him in running his Mr. Chow restaurant in London, a fashionable restaurant featuring Peking cuisine. Later they moved to Manhattan, opening a branch of the restaurant on 57th Street, and then to California to create a third branch in Beverly Hills. Crystals on Cords
        She began designing jewelry in the mid-1980's and was a trendsetter for her use of quartz and other crystals as amulets and rings in a variety of settings and as pendants on silk cords. She had outlets in leading stores in several cities, including in Manhattan at Bergdorf Goodman on Fifth Avenue and at the Ted Muehling Shop in SoHo.
        More recently she had shifted into abstract and organic sculpture in crystal and furniture design.
        Regularly listed as one of the best-dressed women, she acquired a notable collection of antique and designer clothes and patterns. She donated the clothes to the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan, and they are to be exhibited there starting March 16. Rizzoli Publishing is preparing a book on the collection.
        She remained professionally active while fighting her illness and worked with Angel Food, an organization that delivers food to AIDS patients.
        Mrs. Chow was born in Lakeview, Ohio. As a teen-ager she moved with her family to Tokyo, where her father, Walter Edmund Lutz, worked in international trade. Mrs. Chow was educated at Sophia University in Tokyo.
        She was divorced from Mr. Chow. She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      