
        Alberta Smith Jacoby, a film maker and lecturer on mental health, died on Wednesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Guilford, Conn.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Jacoby, a specialist in mental-health education, had been a member of the faculty of Yale University for the last 25 years and remained a lecturer on public health at the time of her death. She taught and produced documentaries at the School of Epidemiology and Public Health, a part of the Yale School of Medicine.
        She was born in Worthington, Minn., was an alternate on the 1928 Olympic diving team and became a champion golfer. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota and received a master's degree in public health from Yale in 1967, the year she joined the faculty.
        She began to show films on health during World War II as a program director for the Office of War Information, an information officer at the Public Health Service and, finally, chief of information for the National Institute of Mental Health.
        She went into film making herself in 1949, when she and her director-husband, the late Irving A. Jacoby, formed the Mental Health Film Board. A production company, it made more than 100 documentaries, some of which won awards, on subjects such as psychiatric illnesses, drug abuse, juvenile delinquency and hospice care.
        At Yale, she taught a course entitled Health Communications. With her assistance, student crews made films about local health agencies to educate the public about what the agencies did.
        Mr. Jacoby died in 1985. She is survived by six children, Clair Haycraft Johnson of Maui, Hawaii, Sara Haycraft Sparrow of North Branford, Conn., Peter Altman of Boston, Leslie Altman Rescoria of Havertown, Pa., Tamar Jacoby of Manhattan, and Oren Jacoby, also of Manhattan; three brothers, Paul Smith of St. David's Island, Bermuda, and Robert and Sidney Smith, both of Los Angeles; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      