
        Linda J. Laubenstein, a Manhattan physician who in 1981 discovered some of the first mysterious cases of what became the worldwide AIDS epidemic, died on Saturday at her summer home in Chatham, Mass., on Cape Cod. She was 45 years old.
        Her family said an autopsy was pending. She suffered from severe asthma and weakness from childhood polio, an illness that required three major operations and left her a paraplegic at the age of 5.
        "She is incredibly important in the history of AIDS, a genuine pioneer and a real fighter for what she believed," said Larry Kramer, an author and a leader in AIDS causes.
        Dr. Laubenstein inspired the character of Dr. Emma Brookner, a principal role in Mr. Kramer's play on acquired immune deficiency syndrome, "The Normal Heart." He said an agreement was near on the production of a movie version by Barbra Streisand, with Ms. Streisand playing the Laubenstein-Brookner part.
        Dr. Jeffrey B. Greene, a colleague, called Dr. Laubenstein "the ultimate AIDS physician." Despite her handicap, she met patients in the emergency room in the middle of the night and even made house calls, using her motorized wheelchair and public buses. "She was sicker than most of her patients but didn't let it stop her," Dr. Greene said. First Paper on Subject
        Dr. Laubenstein and Dr. Alvin Friedman-Kien wrote the first paper to be published in a medical journal on the alarming appearance of Kaposi's sarcoma, a previously rare disease of lesions of the skin and other tissues. Most of the cases were in young gay men suffering a puzzling collapse of the immune system.
        Recalling one of the first cases, she described a 33-year-old man with two purple spots behind his ears. Initially he responded to the cancer drugs she prescribed. But 18 months later he was dead, his body covered with 75 lesions.
        Many more cases followed. By May 1982, she had seen 62 patients with AIDS -- a fourth of the national total recorded at the time. She said then that "this problem certainly is not going away."
        Her father, George Laubenstein, said yesterday, "She told us from the very beginning that this is going to be a terrible epidemic."
        Dr. Laubenstein's private practice grew to be predominantly AIDS cases. She and Dr. Freidman-Kien arranged the first full-scale medical conference on AIDS, at New York University in 1983. She also help to found the Kaposi's Sarcoma Research Fund in 1983. Jobs in Office Services
        In 1989, she and Dr. Greene founded Multitasking, a nonprofit organization selling office services to other businesses and employing people with AIDS as the workers. Her concern was that AIDS patients often lost their jobs and that work was vital to emotional and physical health as well as for financial support.
        Dr. Laubenstein was outspoken about what she said was the neglect by government and society in fighting AIDS. Some of her views were controversial among gay groups, particularly her belief that bathhouses should be shut down to discourage unsafe sex.
        Born in Boston, she grew up in Barrington, R.I. She graduated from Barnard College and New York University Medical School. Her specialties were hematology and oncology, and she was a clinical professor at the New York University Medical Center.
        Surviving are her parents, George and Priscilla of Harwich Port, Mass., and a brother, Peter of Melvin Village, N.H.
      