
        Marion P. Ames, a major force for court reform in New York State for 35 years and a leader in many other public causes, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        She died after an operation for spinal bone cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
        She worked to consolidate the antiquated system of diverse state and local courts, give them proper financing and modern management, provide for discipline in instances of judicial misconduct, eliminate political abuses and promote merit selection of jurists.
        The American Judicature Society, a national group for improving the courts, honored her with an award for the major progress she made on all those points. Led League of Women Voters
        Serving as the president of the State League of Women Voters and head of its courts committee, Mrs. Ames waged her campaign in speeches, reports, news releases, lobbying, coalitions, testimony at hearings and letters to the editor.
        She also served as vice chairwoman of the state Committee for Modern Courts, a nonprofit organization. In 1973 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed her to a new State Judicial Screening Committee -- and she publicly criticized its limitations.
        "She really was the guiding light of the league's work, which played a lead role in court reform," said Elizabeth Hubbard, executive director of the Committee for Modern Courts. "She was always at the center of the movement to improve the system, someone we and political leaders and other groups always looked up to."
        Mrs. Ames's other activities included serving as the board chairwoman of the College of New Rochelle and vice chairwoman of Barnard College.
        She also led private social-service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services. Broad Spectrum of Causes
        Among the issues she championed were liberalized voter registration laws, permanent political primary schedules, equitable welfare benefits and education aid, impartial legislative redistricting, an improved automobile insurance system and the release of mental patients from state institutions to local residences with support services.
        Mrs. Ames was born in Manhattan. Her nickname was Pat, from her maiden name, Patterson.
        She graduated from Barnard in 1937 and Fordham Law School in 1943. Her law practice specialized in estates, trusts and labor law.
        Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      