
        Peggy Zinsser Douglas, who helped raise hundreds of millions of dollars for the arts and other charitable causes in 60 years of volunteer work, died on Saturday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 94 years old.
        Her family said she died of unspecified natural causes.
        Mrs. Douglas raised more than $100 million for the Metropolitan Opera and a few times more than that for all her other causes, said John O'Keefe, a longtime friend who worked with her for Lincoln Center. She lived much of her life in Manhattan.
        She served on the boards of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Red Cross, the United Negro College Fund and Lincoln Center and was chairwoman of funds, committees and benefits for these organizations.
        "Peg Douglas has been one of our secret weapons," Amyas Ames, the chairman of Lincoln Center, said in 1980 when Mrs. Douglas retired from the board of directors. "Whenever we had a tough nut of a corporate chief to crack, we'd send Peg to see him. She'd go in and in her quiet, forceful manner, she netted millions of corporate dollars."
        Mrs. Douglas was also a leader in the English-Speaking Union, Women's Volunteer Service in London, Volunteer Parents, Child Adoption Service, a New York State panel on education and the Institute of International Education, an organization for exchange students. She also supported Lenox Hill Hospital and Shakespearean theater.
        For 54 years she was married to Lewis W. Douglas. He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
        An active partner in his career, she helped him campaign for Congress and entertain dignitaries in London. The Douglases became friends of Winston Churchill and were among the few Americans invited to attend his funeral.
        Concurring in her husband's break with President Roosevelt, Mrs. Douglas supported the Republican candidate in 1940, Wendell L. Willkie. Mrs. Douglas presided over the unveiling of a giant poster in Times Square saying, "No Third Term!" Mr. Douglas rejoined the Roosevelt Administration to help direct shipping in World War II.
        Mrs. Douglas was born in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and graduated from Smith College.
        Her family founded the Zinsser Chemical Company. Her sister, Ellen, married John J. McCloy, an adviser to several American Presidents, and a cousin married Konrad Adenauer, a Chancellor of West Germany.
        Surviving are a daughter, Sharman Douglas of Manhattan; two sons, James of Tucson and Lewis Jr. of Denver; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      