
        Florence Flast, the chairwoman of the New York Committee on Public Education and Religious Liberty, died on Saturday at her home in Novato, Calif. She was 71 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
        She died of cancer, said Blanche Lewis, the treasurer of the committee, which is known as Pearl, of which Mrs. Flast was a national vice president.
        She was a principal in a suit -- Flast v. Gardner -- in the United States Supreme Court that gave individual taxpayers the right to go to Federal court to challenge laws that, in their opinion, provide public funds for non-public schools. Mrs. Flast was one of seven taxpayers who sued John W. Gardner, then the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, to establish that principle under the doctrine of separation of church and state.
        The plaintiffs contended that H.E.W. was violating the Constitution by disbursing tax money to benefit private and parochial schools. The Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments in the case in 1967 after a lower court held that the plaintiffs had no standing to sue because the amounts of their taxes involved were negligible. Other Taxpayer Suits
        The Court's ruling in 1968 came in an 8-to-1 decision, and other taxpayer suits have followed in which plaintiffs challenged acts of Congress.
        When she went to court, Mrs. Flast was the president of the United Parents Associations of New York City, an umbrella group of parent and parent-teacher organizations representing the parents of more than 250,000 public-school pupils.
        She also served as an officer of the Community Service Society, one of the city's oldest and most prestigious civic organizations.
        Born and raised on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Flast graduated from Hunter College, and was elected to the Hunter Hall of Fame in 1975. She received an Americans United Award in 1969 for serving the cause of public education and church-state separation.
        She is survived by her husband, Howard; two sons, Robert, of Westfield, N.J., and Barry, of Novato; a brother, Arnold Fassler of Williamsville, Vt.; a sister, Sue Kellerman of San Rafael, Calif., and three grandchildren
      