
        Mary Virginia Gaver, who championed the cause of school libraries in America, died Tuesday at the Roman Eagle Memorial Home in Danville, Va. She was 85 years old and died of Parkinson's disease, her family said.
        Miss Gaver helped develop national school library standards in 1960 and headed a $1.1 million campaign promoting their adoption nationwide and creating eight model libraries.
        She served as president of the American Library Association in 1966-67, the American Association of School Librarians in 1959-60 and the New Jersey School Library Association in 1954-55. Taught Librarians
        She was also an educator of librarians at several universities. Her longest tenure was at Rutgers University, where she taught from 1954 to 1971.
        Growing up in the cotton mill town of Schoolfield, Va., she accompanied her mother, a teacher, as she went door-to-door collecting $100 to start a school library. Mill company executives matched the donations.
        Decades later Miss Gaver summarized what she saw as her mission in the title of a pamphlet she wrote: "Every Child Needs a School Library."
        She earned a bachelor of arts degree from Randolph-Macon Women's College and bachelor of science and master's degrees from Columbia University, where she studied under a Carnegie fellowship. High School English Teacher
        In the 1920's and 1930's she worked as a high school English teacher and librarian in Danville and served as technical director of a Federal Works Project Administration library program for Virginia.
        She moved to New York to be a school librarian in Scarsdale from 1939 to 1942. She was a librarian and professor of library service at New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton from 1942-54, with a two-year leave as a visiting professor at the University of Teheran and library adviser to Iran. She also taught at the University of Virginia and Emory University.
        After her retirement from Rutgers, she served as a library consultant and later vice president of Bro-Dart Inc., a wholesale book supplier. She wrote and edited numerous articles and books on libraries.
        Her survivors include a sister, Lydia Harvey, also of Danville.
      