
        Barbara Miller Solomon, a Harvard educator and leader in women's studies, died Thursday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 73 years old.
        She died of cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Solomon, a historian, taught Harvard's first course on the history of American women, the forerunner of what evolved into a broader women's studies program.
        She also directed a major collection of historical material on women, served as Harvard's first female assistant dean and was a mentor to other female scholars.
        Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award. The text traced the struggle of American women to gain access to college and assessed the importance of their education to them and to society in opening up new careers and roles. Family and Studies
        Dr. Solomon, a native of Boston, graduated from Radcliffe in 1940, continued her studies there part time while starting a family and earned a doctorate in American civilization in 1953.
        She first gained attention by turning her doctoral thesis on immigration into a book, "Ancestors & Immigrants: A Changing New England Tradition" (Harvard University Press, 1956). It is widely used as a college text and was honored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Dr. Solomon started her teaching career at Wheelock College in Boston in 1957 and joined Harvard's faculty in 1959.
        That year she became the director of the Women's Archives at Radcliffe, now known as the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America. Her work won national recognition when Lady Bird Johnson invited her to be guest of honor at the White House.
        She also served as a college administrator, first as an associate dean at Harvard's affiliated Radcliffe College from 1963 to 1970, then as an assistant dean at Harvard from 1970 to 1974. After retiring from teaching in 1985, she was a scholar in residence at the Schlesinger Library.
        Her husband of 48 years, Peter H. Solomon, a shoe company executive, died in 1988. She is survived by two sons, Peter Solomon of Toronto and Daniel Solomon of Newton, Mass.; a daughter, Maida Solomon of Cambridge, and four grandchildren.
      