
        Alison L. Gertz, who contracted AIDS in a single encounter with a man at the age of 16 and drew international attention by telling her story as a warning to heterosexuals, women and teen-agers, died yesterday afternoon at her family's summer home in Westhampton Beach, L.I.
        She was 26 years old and lived in Manhattan. Her parents, Jerrold and Carol Gertz, said she died of AIDS.
        When Ms. Gertz first publicly told her story, in an interview with The New York Times in 1989, the AIDS epidemic was widely perceived as confined to homosexual men, intravenous drug abusers and blood-transfusion recipients.
        She fit none of those categories. Her story was all the more dramatic because of the privilege she was born into, with artistic talent, affluence, private schools and social prominence. Public Crusader
        Ms. Gertz became a crusader, speaking at schools, colleges and public events. She appeared on the cover of People magazine, Esquire named her woman of the year and her story was printed overseas.
        Her many television appearances included "20/20," "Good Morning America," "Sally Jessy Raphael" and "Joan Rivers." Some celebrity interviewers became concerned friends. A film she recorded for the World Health Organization was first shown at the United Nations on World AIDS Day in 1989 and has since been shown internationally.
        Molly Ringwald portrayed her in "Something to Live For: The Alison Gertz Story," a two-hour ABC network special that was broadcast on March 29. It prompted 189,251 calls to the Federal AIDS telephone line in 24 hours, a record. A majority of the calls were from women.
        Dr. Mathilde Krim, co-founder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, called her a pioneer in educating middle-class heterosexuals.
        Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services, has praised the ABC movie and said Ms. Gertz delivered "a powerful message to all Americans about the realities of AIDS." Hopes Suddenly Dimmed
        An only child, Ms. Gertz was born in Manhattan and grew up on Park Avenue. Her father, the grandson of a founder of Gertz department stores, is a real-estate investor. Her mother cofounded a national chain of fashion stores, Tennis Lady.
        Educated at Horace Mann School, Ms. Gertz studied art at Parsons School of Design. At 22, she was beginning a career as an illustrator.
        "I was just, as they say, starting out in life," she said, with hopes of marriage and children.
        But she began suffering puzzling ailments that eluded treatment. Finally, in 1988, she checked into Lenox Hill Hospital for tests. The ultimate diagnosis was AIDS.
        The mystery of how she had become infected remained; her boyfriend at the time and a previous one tested negative. Eventually she looked up an old friend with whom she spent one romantic evening six years earlier, when AIDS was virtually unknown. He, it turned out, was bisexual and had since died of AIDS.
        With medication, Ms. Gertz recovered from her initial illness and started on her mission.
        "Unfortunately, a lot of people just flip by" AIDS reports about gay men and addicts, she said. "They think it doesn't apply to them. They can't turn the page on me. I could be one of them, or their daughter, and they have to deal with this." Encouraged Others
        She received thousands of letters from around the world. She encouraged others who made their cases public, including Elizabeth Glaser, the wife of a television actor, who addressed the Democratic National Convention, and Mary Fisher, a former aide to President Gerald R. Ford who will speak to the Republican convention.
        Friends of the Gertz family founded Concerned Parents for AIDS Research and have raised more than $1 million, and Ms. Gertz's friends hope to carry out her idea for an AIDS care program named Love Heals.
        She is survived by her parents, who live in Manhattan.
      