
        Antoinette M. Kraushaar, the owner of one of New York City's oldest art galleries, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89 years old.
        She died of natural causes related to old age, said Carole Pesner, the director of Kraushaar Galleries Inc.
        Miss Kraushaar was born in Manhattan on Dec. 25, 1902, into a family of art dealers, and she spent her life in the New York art world. While still a teen-ager, she went to work as a stenographer in the gallery that her uncle, Charles W. Kraushaar, founded in 1885 and that her father, John Kraushaar, inherited at his brother's death in 1917. Originally on Broadway at 33d Street, Kraushaar Galleries has moved five times in its 107-year history; since 1981, it has occupied a floor in 724 Fifth Avenue, a gallery building near 57th Street. Mrs. Pesner said yesterday that the gallery would continue to operate.
        In its first years, the gallery concentrated on European artists, especially the Barbizon School of landscape painters. Under Miss Kraushaar's father, it became known for its close association with American artists. For many years it was the primary representative of the sculptor Gaston Lachaise, the painters Guy Pene du Bois and Charles Demuth, and several members of the group of American realists known as "the Eight," most notably George Luks, William Glackens, Maurice Prendergast and John Sloan.
        In 1917, Luks painted a full-length portrait of Miss Kraushaar in a white graduation dress that has been widely reproduced and exhibited over the years. In the 1920's, Lachaise also sculptured a head of the dealer. Earlier this year, she gave the Luks portrait to the Brooklyn Museum, where it is on view in conjunction with the current exhibition "The Eight."
        Miss Kraushaar took over the running of the gallery when her father became ill in the 1930's and became its owner at his death in 1946. She retired from its day-to-day management in 1988. Under her tenure the gallery continued to exhibit American realists. In the last decade, it has mounted large shows of Glackens and Sloan, and it continues to represent the Luks estate. But it also represents abstract artists, including William Kienbusch, Carl Morris and Sonia Gechtoff.
        In 1961, Miss Kraushaar was among the handful of New York gallery owners who founded the Art Dealers Association of America; she served for many years on its board. In her later years, she was known for her receptiveness to younger art dealers and the work they exhibited.
        She is survived by a nephew, Charles W. Kraushaar of Manhattan.
      