
        Dr. Evelyn B. Man, a biochemist who helped develop the first widely used test to detect low hormone levels in the thyroid gland, which enabled treatment to prevent mental retardation, died on Sept. 3 at her home in West Hartford, Conn. She was 87 years old.
        She died of cancer, a funeral home spokesman said.
        "She was one of the top authorities in the world on thyroid," said Dr. Philip K. Bondy, the retired chairman of the department of medicine at Yale, where she did most of her work.
        Her efforts won the American Thyroid Association's Distinguished Service Award and the United Cerebral Palsy Award for Research.
        Dr. Man was a full-time researcher and educator in biochemistry for more than 40 years. In the 1930's she worked with John P. Peters and Herman Yannet to develop the first practical test for thyroid levels.
        The procedure, the protein bound iodine test, and a later version called the butanol extractable iodine test, enabled the identification of people with abnormal thyroid functions. High thyroid levels, if untreated, can be fatal. Low thyroid levels cause cretinism, but that is reversible with thyroid supplements.
        Early surveys using the test showed that low hormone levels in the thyroid gland were the leading cause of preventable retardation. Many institutionalized patients were found to have been misdiagnosed as demented and were restored to normal functioning with thyroid medication.
        Later thyroid tests, developed by other scientists, are now used to screen all newborns in developed countries.
        Dr. Man also studied the effect of nuclear radiation on thyroid functioning in survivors of the atomic bombings of Japan in World War II.
        Dr. Man was born in Lawrence, L.I. She graduated from Wellesley College in 1925 and earned a doctorate in physiological chemistry at Yale in 1932.
        She worked variously as a technician, researcher and professor at Yale from 1928 to 1961, then worked nine years at Brown University.
        Although she retired from full-time work in 1970, she continued her studies. She published 156 scientific papers over a period of about 60 years, the last in 1991.
        For much of her life Dr. Man lived in North Stonington, Conn., where she was an officer in the North Stonington Historical Society. She was also active in the local hospital and library in Westerly, R.I.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      