
        Ruth Nelson, an actress in the legendary Group Theater, which transformed American acting, and whose career on stage, film and television spanned nearly 70 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87 years old.
        She died of cancer complicated by a stroke and pneumonia, her family said.
        Ms. Nelson began acting in the early 1920's and last appeared onstage in "Uncle Vanya" in New York last year and on film in the 1990 movie "Awakenings."
        During the 1930's she was a charter member of the Group Theater, which gave birth to modern American acting. The Group infused its work with new psychological insights, naturalistic style and political content. It produced many top actors, directors and acting teachers, including Lee J. Cobb, Morris Carnovsky, John Garfield, Elia Kazan, Harold Clurman, Stella Adler and Lee Strasberg, and led to new techniques, including the Method. 'Couldn't Applaud Any More'
        In a great moment of theater history, Ms. Nelson was the taxicab driver's wife in the original cast of Clifford Odets' "Waiting for Lefty." On opening night in 1935, the audience gave the play and cast an extraordinary 45-minute ovation.
        "When they couldn't applaud any more, they stomped their feet," she later recalled. "All I could think was, 'My God, they're going to bring the balcony down!' It was terrible, it was so beautiful."
        For 33 years she was married to John Cromwell, founder of the Screen Directors Guild. Among his directing credits were "Of Human Bondage," "Algiers," "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" and "The Goddess."
        But when Mr. Cromwell was accused of being a Communist in the 1950's -- he denied the charge in Congressional testimony -- his career went into a blacklisted eclipse. At the time, Ms. Nelson was offered a New York stage role as a wife in what turned out to be a monumental play, "Death of a Salesman." She turned it down to stay in Los Angeles to help her husband through his ordeal.
        Mr. Cromwell died in 1979. A Nun's Encouragement
        Born in Saginaw, Mich., Ms. Nelson grew up on the vaudeville circuit with her mother, Eva Mudge, a noted quick-change artist. Then she went to Los Angeles to study at a Roman Catholic school. Although her mother had discouraged Ms. Nelson from a show business career, a nun saw her potential and nudged her to Broadway.
        Her stage performances won critical praise. Her film debut came in 1944 in four movies, and she made nine more in the next four years. Her later films included Robert Altman's "Three Women" and "Wedding" in the 1970's.
        In a 1966 review in The New York Times, Stanley Kauffmann wrote that her portrayal of Mrs. Antrobus in a revival of "The Skin of Our Teeth" was "very easily the best" he had seen. "Miss Nelson misses no nuance of reality that the part offers, and in one moment -- when she mourns her murdered son Abel -- she touches true elegy," he wrote.
        Her first marriage, to William Challee, the actor, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by two sisters, Lynda Stack of Darien, Conn., and Gay Samuelson of Los Angeles; a stepson, James Cromwell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      