
        Clara Rotter, for many years secretary of The New York Times drama department and a well-known figure in Broadway circles, died on Sunday at her home in Woodside, Queens. She was 82 years old.
        She died after a long illness, said her brother Alex, of Queens.
        Miss Rotter served as the conduit between the newspaper's critics and those involved in productions. Producers, writers, directors and, of course, press agents knew her well. They also knew her role as intermediary between them and the critics, whom she shielded, as they wanted, from pleadings and promotions. Such was her reputation that a question once put to applicants who wanted to join the theater press agents' union was "Who is Clara Rotter?"
        Though frail and diminutive, Miss Rotter had a strong will and a determination to accomplish any chore to ease the paths of critics and reporters.
        Brooks Atkinson, the Times drama critic when she came to the department, once sent off a letter and then remarked that he wished he hadn't written it. Miss Rotter worked her way by telephone through the post office hierarchy and was assured that retrieval was impossible. She persisted and learned the home telephone number of the top man. When she called, she was told he was dining at a restaurant. She telephoned him there and, according to colleagues at The Times, the letter was withdrawn. A Friend of the Famous
        During her time in the drama department, which began shortly after she joined The Times in 1945, Miss Rotter made many friendships with the famous on Broadway and its auxiliary fields. Her correspondence with the playwright Sean O'Casey resulted in a flood of letters that in themselves constituted a literary legacy now included in the Billy Rose Theater Collection of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts.
        During most of her secretarial career, Miss Rotter worked with Mr. Atkinson. When he died in 1984 after retiring from The Times in 1965, he left her $2,500, which she donated to the Brooks Atkinson Memorial Playwright Exchange of New Dramatists to assist talented young playwrights.
        Miss Rotter served with several later critics before retiring at the age of 70. For several years she continued to act as liaison in the purchase of theater tickets for the parent New York Times Company.
        In addition to her brother Alex, she is survived by another brother, Leonard, of Syosset, L.I.
      