
        Mary Norton, a writer of children's books whose series about the tiny Borrowers was acclaimed by adults and devoured by legions of children, died on Saturday at her home in Hartland, England. She was 88 years old.
        She died of a stroke, said Wendy Schmalz of Harold Ober Associates, a New York literary agency.
        A creator of fantasy for children, Mrs. Norton enchanted readers of all ages with her stories of the ingenious family of Borrowers, people barely six inches high who own nothing, share freely and shamelessly borrow whatever they need from human beings. Winning Literary Acclaim
        The first of the series was "The Borrowers," which won the Library Association Carnegie Medal in England as the outstanding children's book of 1952. American critics celebrated the book when it was published in the United States the next year.
        Jane Cobb, writing in The New York Times Book Review, described "The Borrowers" as "a charming story, beautifully written," that brought to mind "Alice in Wonderland" and "The Wind in the Willows."
        Three sequels -- "The Borrowers Afield" (1955), "The Borrowers Afloat" (1959) and "The Borrowers Aloft" (1961) -- were also highly praised, with some critics comparing her work to classics by Jonathan Swift and Charles Dickens. Mrs. Norton once again turned to the little people 21 years later in "The Borrowers Avenged," a story laced with humorous observations on the human condition. A Witch and a Flying Bed
        Her first book, "The Magic Bed-knob; or, How to Become a Witch in 10 Easy Lessons," published in 1943, was the story of three children, a spinster learning to become a witch and a flying bed. Reviewing it in The Times Book Review, Ellen Lewis Buell said: "No one can tell for certain when a classic is born, but this story has all the makings of one." A revised version of the story and its sequel, "Bonfires and Broomsticks," appeared in 1957 as "Bedknob and Broomstick." In 1971 the book was made into the Walt Disney film "Bedknobs and Broomsticks," which starred Angela Lansbury.
        Mrs. Norton, the daughter of a physician, was born in London on Dec. 10, 1903, and educated at a convent school. During World War II she worked first in England for the War Office and then in New York for the British Purchasing Commission. It was in the United States that she started to write short stories and articles to help support her children. Encouraged by American editors, she wrote down some of the stories she told her own children.
        She is survived by two sons, Robert and Guy, and two daughters, Ann-Mary and Caroline.
      