
        Dr. Barbara McClintock, one of the most influential geneticists of the century, died on Wednesday night at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. She was 90 years old and lived nearby at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, where she had conducted research for more than 50 years.
        She died of natural causes, said Lisa Gentry, a spokeswoman for the lab.
        Dr. McClintock had an uncanny ability to understand the nature of genes and how they interact decades before biologists discovered the molecular tools to dissect genetic material. Working with corn all her life, she is best known for her discovery that fragments of genetic material move among chromosomes, regulating the way genes control cells' growth and development.
        Modern genetics has known no figure quite like Dr. McClintock, who worked alone and chose not to publish some of her revolutionary observations for years, explaining later that she thought no one would accept the findings. She never gave lectures, as most scientists do to build their careers. Instead, until her last days, she worked in her laboratory at Cold Spring Harbor 12 hours a day, six days a week. Until 1986, she did not have a telephone, requesting that anyone who wanted to talk to her write a letter instead.
        Dr. McClintock's findings were so profound that she garnered honors and prizes throughout her long career, including membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1944, president of the Genetics Society in 1945, the National Medal of Science in 1970, the first MacArthur Laureate Award, for $60,000 a year for life, in 1981, and a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.
        She was the first woman to win an unshared Nobel Prize in that category and the third woman to win an unshared Nobel science prize. The first was Marie Curie in 1911 and the second was Dorothy C. Hodgkin in 1964, both for chemistry.
        "She was a giant figure in the history of genetics," said Dr. James Shapiro of the University of Chicago. "I think she is the most important figure there is in biology in general."
        Dr. James Watson, director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, the chemical that makes up genes, said Dr. McClintock was one of the three most important figures in the history of genetics, one of "the three M's," he said. The other two, Gregor Mendel and Thomas Hunt Morgan, lived in the 19th and early 20th centuries and laid the groundwork for notions of inheritance.
        In the 1930's, she was a discoverer of the fact that chromosomes break and recombine to create genetic changes in a process known as crossing over, a discovery that explained puzzling patterns of inheritance. She also discovered a structure called the nucleolar organizer of the chromosome, which seemed to order the genetic material during cell division, a finding that was not explained by molecular biologists for three more decades.
        J. R. S. Fincham of Edinburgh, Scotland, writing in the Aug. 20 issue of Nature, a British science journal, said that Dr. McClintock's "solitary style of work, total independence of thought and extraordinary record of getting things right have elevated her to the status of a prophet in the eyes of some."
        Dr. McClintock spent her professional life working on corn, using the telltale patterns of colored kernels to disclose the breaking, joining and rearranging of genes and chromosomes inside the cells. Because the pigments of the kernels are inherited, Dr. McClintock could trace genes through the changes in the kernels.  Astonishing Earlier Discoveries
        To the astonishment of molecular geneticists, whose precise tools now allow them to cut and snip submicroscopic genes, Dr. McClintock's discoveries about the nature of genes and inheritance were made at a time when no one even knew what DNA was.
        In the 1930's, Dr. McClintock established her reputation by becoming one of the scientists to develop an understanding of chromosomes as the basis of heredity, work that was honored by her National Medal of Science.
        Dr. McClintock's Nobel Prize was for her discovery that the genetic material is not fixed, but instead is fluid. Small fragments of DNA, called transposable elements, actually move from place to place and, in doing so, they control the expression of genes.
        Dr. McClintock made this discovery nearly 40 years before she won the Nobel Prize, at a time when genetics was still so rudimentary that her ideas baffled other scientists and were often dismissed outright or ignored.
        In an introduction to a volume of papers about Dr. McClintock, produced in celebration of her 90th birthday, Dr. Nina Fedoroff of the Carnegie Institution of Washington and Dr. David Botstein of Stanford University described Dr. McClintock's plight.
        Her ideas about transposable elements, they wrote, were "ahead of her time and Barbara found herself in an anomalous and unique position," adding, "She was universally respected and admired as one of the leading geneticists of her era, yet the reaction to her latest and perhaps most profound discoveries and insights was often uncomprehending or indifferent and not infrequently dismissive or even hostile." Filed Her Early Data
        Concluding that she could never convince the scientific community, Dr. McClintock doggedly carried on with her work, carefully filing her data away and writing them up only in her annual reports to the Carnegie Institution of Washington, which supported her work.
        In her biography of Dr. McClintock, "A Feeling for the Organism," Dr.  Evelyn Fox Keller of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology wrote that geneticists were baffled by Dr. McClintock's ideas because they seemed too much at odds with the very nature of Darwinian evolution. The theory of evolution holds that changes occur randomly in genes, giving rise to variations that may or may not prove beneficial.
        Dr. McClintock, however, was saying that purposeful changes occur in genes, that transposable elements jump to specific places to insert themselves into genetic material and alter it.
        Another stumbling block, Dr. Keller said, was that Dr. McClintock was working with corn, a species whose complex patterns of development were clear to her but not to many others. And she had done her work alone without the benefit of long discussions trying to explain her ideas to colleagues.
        Finally, in the late 1970's, when molecular biologists isolated transposable elements in bacteria and then discovered that they were universally used by cells to control genes, Dr. McClintock's work was rediscovered and widely celebrated as prescient.
        Dr. Shapiro said: "I think the implications of this work are just being realized. The idea that the genome is capable of repairing itself, and that it is capable of reconstructing itself, that there are systems in the cell that can detect damage and do appropriate things to repair it, has tremendous implications for evolution as well as for genetics." Knew Where 'Mysteries Lie'
        Because Dr. McClintock worked alone, emphatically rejecting reductionism, because she was so often right and saw so clearly when others were muddled, she has gained a reputation as almost a mystic. But Dr. Shapiro said she was more "someone who understands where the mysteries lie than someone who mystifies."
        Dr. McClintock "understands the complexity of the genome and the limits to our understanding of it," he said, adding, "She appreciated that the problems we are addressing are enormously deep and complex."
        Dr. Keller described Dr. McClintock as a person who from infancy valued her solitude and independence.
        Barbara McClintock was born on June 16, 1902, in Hartford. The daughter of a doctor, she grew up in Brooklyn and learned to love science while attending Erasmus Hall High School there. When she was 17, she enrolled at Cornell University's College of Agriculture, a university that had been extremely hospitable to women.
        When she was a junior she was invited to take the university's graduate course in genetics and became, unofficially, a graduate student. From the time she received her Ph.D. in 1927 until 1941, she worked at Cornell University and at the University of Missouri, collaborating with some of the country's most eminent geneticists. From 1941 until her death, Dr. McClintock worked at Cold Spring Harbor, following her own course.
        Dr. McClintock is survived by a sister, Mignon Crowell, who lives in Florida, and a brother, Thomas N. McClintock of Newtown, Conn.
      