
        Dorothy Disney MacKaye, who chronicled marital woes and dispensed advice for 30 years through a column in The Ladies' Home Journal, "Can This Marriage Be Saved?", died on Saturday at her summer home in Guilford, Conn. She was 88 years old and lived in Guilford and Washington.
        She died of a heart attack, said her son, William R. MacKaye of Washington.
        Mrs. MacKaye, who wrote under the byline Dorothy Cameron Disney, was something of a pioneer both as an advice columnist and a marriage counselor, and for generations of readers her column -- entertaining, occasionally titillating, sometimes a little pedantic -- served as a spyglass into the lives of anonymous strangers.
        The column, which first appeared in January 1953, continues today. In Mrs. MacKaye's hands it was devoted each month to the travails of a married couple. Based on interviews and then written largely in dialogue, as if in the voices of the troubled partners, the columns dealt with issues like jealousy, infidelity, money problems and, increasingly as time went on and moral strictures relaxed, sexual problems.
        "The columns seem to represent a chronicle of the many changes in the institution of marriage -- and the fascination it holds," Mrs. MacKaye said in a retrospective essay written for the 100th anniversary issue of The Ladies' Home Journal in January 1984. Looking back on her three decades as a columnist, she concluded that of all marital problems, "the single greatest pitfall of all times" is the inability of husband and wife to communicate. " 'He (or she) never listens' is universal," she wrote.
        By the time she began her career as a columnist, she was the author of nine mystery novels, and she believed she was successful as a columnist, her son said in an interview, because of her training as a storyteller. Her technique, he said, was to take her prospective subject couple out to dinner to prime and cajole them and then afterward to speak with them separately. She would also interview their marriage counselor.
        In the column, the names were never divulged and identifying details were not provided. "She would always tell the couples that unless they told their friends they'd never be recognized," her son said. "Those people who told their friends were invariably recognized -- and embarrassed."
        In the beginning, the column was a collaboration between Mrs. MacKaye and Dr. Paul Popenoe, the founder of the American Institute of Family Relations, a marriage counseling agency in Hollywood. Dr. Popenoe put her in touch with his patients, who then became her subjects. Later on, as the column became more well known, Mrs. MacKaye made it entirely her own, calling on counseling agencies across the country for source material.
        Mrs. MacKaye was born in 1904 in Atoka, Indian Territory, part of what became the State of Oklahoma in 1907, and grew up in Muskogee. Her father, Loren G. Disney, was a lawyer and a local political figure. She attended several colleges, including George Washington University and Barnard College, but never graduated. Her son said her explanation for this was that she refused to take any science courses.
        Mrs. MacKaye's marriage to Milton MacKaye, a magazine writer, endured for 50 years until his death in 1979.
        In her addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter-in-law, Mary Anne MacKaye, and five grandchildren.
      