
        Sayedah Khadijah Faisal, a founder of Brooklyn's first mosque who was known to hundreds of Muslims as Mother Khadijah, died Saturday at her home at the mosque in Brooklyn Heights. She was 93 years old.
        Officials of the mosque, the Islamic Mission of America, said she died after a long illness, which they did not specify.
        Mother Khadijah founded the mosque in 1939 with her husband, Sheik Daoud Ahmed Faisal, who served as its imam, or spiritual leader, until his death in 1980.
        She and her husband worked to bring immigrant Muslims and new American converts to the faith together in one mosque. The success of their effort was evident at her funeral there yesterday, where Muslims from Pakistan and Morocco prayed shoulder to shoulder with American black converts. The mosque is situated in a former mansion at 143 State Street in Brooklyn Heights.
        During noon prayers that preceded the funeral, which was attended by several hundred people, the plain pine coffin was kept in the rear of the mosque amid a large group of women who had come to mourn. Afterward, the men of the mosque brought the casket forward for a brief service in Arabic that was centered on the belief that the deceased was merely passing on to another life.
        Belquis Abdur Raheem, a teacher at an Islamic elementary school, brought seven of her pupils to the funeral. "It is important for them to see an important part of Islamic history pass on," she said. "All of these children and their parents grew up with Mother Khadijah being known to them as a focal point of Islam."
        In addition to being a founder of the mosque, Mother Khadijah served as its secretary and treasurer and led its Muslim Ladies Cultural Society.
        For many years, the mosque was the only one in Brooklyn and, as a result, her leadership was broader than Brooklyn Heights. She also traveled around the country with her husband, addressing women's groups on Islam.
        Mother Khadijah, who was born in Bermuda, is survived by her second husband, Imam Omar Bey, and by several nieces and nephews in Bermuda.
      