
        Anna Johnstone Robinson, who designed the costumes for many major films and Broadway shows and was nominated for Academy Awards for "The Godfather" and "Ragtime," died on Friday at the Kimball Farms nursing home in Lenox, Mass. She was 79 years old and lived in the Bronx and Canaan, N.Y.
        She died after a long illness whose nature was not disclosed, a funeral home spokesman said.
        Mrs. Robinson, who worked under her maiden name, Anna Hill Johnstone, designed the costumes for more than 60 films. Tricks of the Trade
        Her movies included "Serpico," "The Wiz," "On the Waterfront," "East of Eden," "America, America," "Prince of the City," "The Verdict," "Running on Empty," "Baby Doll," "Edge of the City," "Dog Day Afternoon" and "A Face in the Crowd."
        While preparing for the filming of "The Group" in 1965, Mrs. Robinson divulged some tricks of her craft. She combed through the closets and attics of friends in Riverdale and scrounged through thrift shops on the East Side of Manhattan looking for just the right clothes for the story's era.
        Sometimes she cheated a bit on authenticity. For one outfit, satin had to be substituted for the scripted taffeta, for example, to avoid making distracting rustling sounds that would ruin the soundtrack.
        Mrs. Robinson got started by helping with student productions in college, then became a seamstress for summer stock stage shows.
        Her first full credit for costume design was for the 1937 Broadway hit "Having Wonderful Time." Her other stage productions included "Bell, Book and Candle," "Lost in the Stars," "Tea and Sympathy," "The Tender Trap" and "A Streetcar Named Desire."
        Turning to movies in 1948, Mrs. Robinson got her first film credit as a costume designer for "Portrait of Jennie." She continued doing movies for 40 years, frequently working for the directors Elia Kazan and Sidney Lumet. She also designed costumes for some television shows.
        Born in Greenville, S.C., Mrs. Robinson grew up in Richmond. She graduated from Barnard College in 1934, and 40 years later received an honorary degree there.
        For more than 50 years she was married to Curville Jones Robinson, a mechanical engineer, who died in 1989.
        There are no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  October 31, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Anna Johnstone Robinson, a theatrical designer, listed a stage credit for her in error. Lucinda Ballard, not Mrs. Robinson, was the costume designer for "A Streetcar Named Desire."
      