
        Wanda Mary Jablonski, an expert on the international oil industry and founder of the Petroleum Intelligence Weekly newsletter, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of heart failure, said Edward L. Morse, the newsletter's publisher.
        Ms. Jablonski's career began when she landed a big story in 1945 while still an office messenger at the Journal of Commerce in Manhattan. Filling in for the oil reporter and assigned to cover a news conference conducted by a Venezuelan official, she waited until the session ended to corner him for a private interview. In the interview, he disclosed plans to seize and nationalize all foreign oil operations in Venezuela. He also called for joint action by developing countries with oil reserves, an idea that culminated in the formation of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in 1960. Savoir-Faire Was Helpful
        Ms. Jablonski became the Journal's oil editor and "the most influentual oil journalist of her time," as Daniel Yergin wrote in his history of the oil business, "The Prize" (Simon & Schuster, 1990). He added that she had the "savoir-faire required to get her through all sorts of situations."
        Making her way in a male-dominated industry, she befriended Texas wildcatters, Arab sheiks, corporate executives and important government figures around the globe. She traveled often, once spending six months in the desert; on a visit to Saudi Arabia, she found herself housed in the guest quarters of the king's harem.
        McGraw-Hill hired her in 1954 as senior editor of its new Petroleum Week, but the magazine folded in 1961. Jobless, she founded her own weekly, which was 8 to 12 pages and printed on yellow paper. It grew steadily to a circulation in the thousands, despite an annual subscription fee in the hundreds of dollars. The current price is $1,375.
        Her newsletter became required reading in the industry for information on explorations, refining, supplies, prices and political trends. The readership ranged from Central Intelligence Agency officials to Middle East rulers. Her early reports on oil company plans occasionally enraged executives, who sometimes temporarily canceled their subscriptions in protest. She sold the weekly in 1988 to the Petroleum Intelligence Group. Born in Czechoslovakia
        Ms. Jablonski was born in Czechoslovakia. Her mother was a physicist; her father, Eugene, worked for the Socony Oil Company, and the family followed him around the world to England, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Texas, Europe and Morocco.
        After settling in the United States in 1938, Ms. Jablonski earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1942 and a master's in journalism from Columbia University in 1943.
        In recent years she worked for the Strang Cancer Prevention Center in Manhattan as the director of the National High-Risk Registry for women with a family history of breast cancer. She donated $3 million to the center.
        She was married and divorced three times. There are no immediate survivors.
      