
        Laurie E. Colwin, a novelist and writer of short stories on modern urban romance and life, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 48 years old.
        She died of a heart attack, her family said.
        Ms. Colwin's writing won praise for its intelligence, wit and style. Critics said she displayed a keen ear and eye for the ways of the middle- and upper-class New York characters she portrayed. Her stories were noted for refreshingly happy endings in tales of love, both in and outside of marriage.
        A New York Times review said she "uses her elegant, delicately colored prose to explore the effects of a relationship on a psyche." The Village Voice said her work "conjures up Manet's picnic painting as it might be reinterpreted by Koren," the cartoonist.
        Judith Rascoe said in Rolling Stone: "I can't give you plot summaries that you can retell at your next party. But when you've read the stories, your next party might may seem to you as if Laurie Colwin had written it."
        Ms. Colwin's four novels were "Goodbye Without Leaving" (Poseidon, 1990), "Family Happiness" (Knopf, 1982), "Happy All the Time" (Knopf, 1978) and "Shine On, Bright and Dangerous Object" (Viking, 1975). A Focus on Food
        Her three collections of short stories were "Another Marvelous Thing" (Knopf, 1986), "The Lone Pilgrim" (Knopf, 1981) and "Passage and Affect" (Viking, 1974). Some of her work was adapted for stage and television.
        She also worked as a translator for Isaac Bashevis Singer and wrote for The New Yorker, Mademoiselle and Redbook.
        In 1987 Ms. Colwin won a Guggenheim fellowship.
        Food was also a focus of her life.  During the campus uprisings at Columbia University in 1968, she cooked forstudent protesters occupying buildings. Later she was a volunteer and a cook for the Coalition for the Homeless and the Antonio Olivieri Shelter for Homeless Women.
        She was also a food columnist for Gourmet magazine and wrote two volumes of essays and recipes, "Home Cooking" (Knopf, 1988) and "More Home Cooking" (HarperCollins, 1990).
        Born in Manhattan, Ms. Colwin grew up in Lake Ronkonkoma, L.I., Chicago and Philadelphia. She attended Bard College and Columbia University.
        She worked for literary agents and on publishers' editorial staffs at Viking, Putnam, Pantheon and Dutton.  Then she began trying her own hand at writing and sold her first story to The New Yorker.
        Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of the Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey. She is also survived by her mother, Estelle Snellenberg, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Leslie Friedman, of Philadelphia.
      