
        Edith Sable, a longtime civic leader who fostered voter participation and recruited public officials and business leaders to debate New York City's problems and future, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        For four decades Mrs. Sable was a League of Women Voters volunteer and officer. She was the economic development director of its New York chapter and was also on the national board.
        She focused on the city's government structure, financing and management, as well as its economy. In the city and state fiscal crises in the 1970's, she convened seminars for officials and others to learn about and discuss finances and charter reform.
        "Edith's meetings were one of the best sources of background information," said Elizabeth Cooke, then a municipal union lobbyist and now president of the Bronx Museum of the Arts. "Personal and political agendas were pretty much put aside, and thoughtful people struggled with difficult issues." Published 'They Represent You'
        Mrs. Sable's later conferences examined city management in 1979, the capital budget process in 1981, infrastructure in 1983, public authorities in 1985 and contract procedures in 1989. She also organized sessions on the city's economy with officials, executives and economists speaking and touring sites from the Fresh Kills landfill to the Hunts Point market.
        She started the league's popular reference booklet "They Represent You and Your Community," listing elected officials with their addresses and telephone numbers and district maps.
        When the city created community boards, she produced an explanatory pamphlet. And to visualize the city's economy and financing, she created charts titled "Money Go Round."
        She also worked several stints in government. She served in the city transportation agency and in public relations for Mayor Robert F. Wagner. She was also an aide to Angier Biddle Duke and Eleanor Roosevelt at the United Nations.
        Mrs. Sable, whose maiden name was Berger, was born in Manhattan and graduated from New York University. Her husband of 48 years, Benjamin, died in 1986. There are no immediate survivors.
      