
        Rosebud Yellow Robe Frantz, a great-grandniece of Chief Sitting Bull, who devoted her life to making American Indian culture available to other Americans, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 85 years old and had lived in Forest Hills, Queens, and Douglaston, Queens, since 1928.
        She died of cancer, said Marjorie Weinberg, a family friend.
        As director of the Indian Village at Jones Beach State Park on Long Island from 1930 to 1950, Rosebud, as she preferred to be called, enthralled legions of visitors with information about and stories from Indian culture.
        Rosebud, who was born near Rapid City, S.D., was a descendant of the Lakota-Oyate, called the Sioux by the white settlers. Through her family's prominence, she came to know many well-known figures like President Calvin Coolidge, whom she helped induct into Lakota membership in 1927; Cecil B. DeMille, who tried to persuade her to star in his films, and the planner Robert Moses, who hired her for the Jones Beach post.
        Last year Edward Castle, a reporter for The Las Vegas Sun, contended that it was her name that inspired Orson Welles to make "Rosebud" the last word spoken by Charles Foster Kane, the protagonist of his 1941 film classic, "Citizen Kane." He based his assertion on what he said were recently discovered daily sign-in sheets for the CBS Radio Network, where both Mr. Welles and Rosebud worked on several dramatic shows during the late 1930's.
        Mr. Welles, who died in 1985, never revealed the source for the name "Rosebud."
        After leaving her post at Jones Beach in 1950, Rosebud continued to lecture and write on Indian culture. Her book, "The Album of the American Indian," was published in 1969 by Franklin Watts Inc., and a second book, "Tonewaya and the Eagles," was published in 1979 by Dial Press.
        In 1989 Rosebud received an honorary doctor of humane letters degree from the University of South Dakota. She had attended the university from 1925 to 1927.
        Rosebud's first husband, Arthur de Cinq-Mars, died in 1949. A sister, Chauncina Yellow Robe White Horse, died in 1981.
        Rosebud Yellow Robe Frantz is survived by her husband, Alfred Frantz; a daughter, Tachawin Moy, of Brooklyn; a granddaughter, Karen Winona Moy, of Manhattan; and a sister, Evelyn Robe Finkbeiner, of Bad Pyrmont and Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
      