
        Elinor Kridel Bernheim, a social-welfare volunteer whose widely cast interests ranged from the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and Columbia University's School of Social Work to a community center she founded in the Bronx, died yesterday at her Upper East Side home. She was 85 years old.
        She died after a long illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Bernheim relentlessly made the rounds of board rooms, foundation offices and charity luncheons and dinners, starting in the 1940's. In 1975, she still sat on the boards of 11 charities. At the time, The New York Times's About New York column described her as "The Queen of Volunteers," who was "the champion volunteer worker in town."
        "I love this kind of work," she said between meetings with people who held the purse strings to grants for worthy causes. Sometimes it kept her busy for 15 hours a day, she said.
        "You know why we do it?" she asked. "Because it shows we're alive. So many of the younger women now want to get paid. It's a status thing with them."
        "I'll tell you what I'm good at," she declared. "I'm good at finding people for boards because I know a lot of people. I'm good at organizing, fund-raising and whipping up enthusiasm.
        "I don't fight with anyone unless I have to get things done -- and then I'm a dog, very mean." She also was a critic of professional social-work jargon that she said could scare otherwise interested laypeople off.
        Mrs. Bernheim, whose late husband, Leonard, was a stockbroker, suffered a paralyzing stroke in 1985. She recovered enough to return to the causes closest to her heart -- in a wheelchair or by telephone -- until her death.
        Among those lasting interests were the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center, which she began in the 1950's and presided over until 1970. It was innovative because it was affiliated with a hospital, Montefiore Medical Center. Others included the New York chapter of the National Council on Alcoholism and Young Concert Artists, which helps talented young people to start a career.
        Also remaining dear to her heart was the New York School of Social Work at Columbia, a place where she did postgraduate work after her 40th birthday, in the 1947-48 academic year. She later served as a member of its advisory board and took special pride when Columbia awarded her its Bicentennial Medal in 1956. It was but one of many honors bestowed on her.
        Mrs. Bernheim was born Elinor Kridel in New York City on June 26, 1907, and graduated from Vassar College in 1928. By 1941, she was a member of the board and the council of the Association for Aid for Crippled Children.
        Her relationship with the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies went back to her years as a young woman. She became a trustee in 1942 and two years later was co-host of a luncheon addressed by Eleanor Roosevelt.
        She served as chairwoman of the women's division fund campaigns in 1943, 1944 and 1949. After that, she became a vice president of the federation and board chairwoman of the women's division.
        Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
        She was also involved with the Community Council of Greater New York, the Community Service Society, the National Homemakers Service Council and the Brookdale Institute on Aging, among others. She was a co-founder of the Florence G. Heller Research Center. She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.
        Mrs. Bernheim's husband died in 1980. She is survived by two sons, Leonard H. Jr. and Charles A., both of Manhattan, and two granddaughters.
      