
        Saundra D. Shepherd, a pediatrician and educator who campaigned for medical care for needy children in New York City and in Africa, died on Thursday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of chronic pulmonary disease, a family spokesman said.
        For the last eight years Dr. Shepherd was the director of social pediatric training at the Montefiore Medical Center. Since the early 1980's she taught there and at City College and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. She also had a private practice.
        The harm to children's health from poverty, discrimination and the lack of housing was a major theme of her work. She was a frequent speaker in public and professional forums and testified before government bodies.
        She was a consulting physician to the Legal Services Corporation and the Legal Aid Society for the last 16 years and worked with the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, Prisoners' Legal Services, the Newark Public Defender and the Rutgers Law School Homeless Rights Project.
        Dr. Shepherd also served with the New York City Mayor's Advisory Council on Child Health, Physicians for Reproductive Health, the Teen-Age Adolescent Pregnancy Care and Prevention Program and the New York State Advisory Panel on Primary Physicians.
        Her service in Africa included work on the Committee for Health in Southern Africa, a physicians' evaluation team in Liberia, the medical college planning committee for Africa University in Zimbabwe and the United Methodist Church medical aid program for Mozambique.
        Dr. Shepherd was born in Manhattan. After graduating from City College in 1968, she earned a master's degree from Hunter College in 1971 and a medical degree from Yale in 1975. Early in her career she studied and did laboratory work in hematology.
        Surviving are her husband of 19 years, Dr. Peter Finch; her parents, Sylvia Shepherd of Manhattan and Archibald Shepherd Jr. of Florida; a daughter, Abi Shepherd-Finch of Manhattan; a brother, Lawrence of Manhattan, and her grandmother, Doris Allman of Barbados.
      