
        Dame Judith Anderson, who electrified Broadway audiences in 1947 with her savage performance of the title role in "Medea" and was a memorably sinister housekeeper in the 1940 film "Rebecca," died yesterday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 93 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Dame Judith, who was born in Australia, was made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II in 1960 for "distinguished contributions to the stage." For years she was one of the first ladies of the American theater, repeatedly portraying women gripped by powerful emotions.
        After the Broadway premiere of the 1947 "Medea" -- a new adaptation of Euripides's drama, written for Dame Judith by the poet Robinson Jeffers -- Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that she had "set a landmark in the theater" with her "inspired performance of rage and revenge."
        Her fiery portrait of a barbarian woman who takes revenge on Jason, the unfaithful father of her two sons, by murdering them won the actress an honored niche in theater history. Many Notable Roles
        Among the actress's other notable stage roles were Lavinia Mannon in Eugene O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra" (1932), Delia in Zoe Atkins's "Old Maid" (1935) and Gertrude in "Hamlet" (1936).
        She was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her portrayal of the malevolent housekeeper Mrs. Danvers in "Rebecca," a Gothic romance directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring Joan Fontaine and Laurence Olivier.
        She displayed her versatility in a wide range of movie roles, among them the biblical Queen Herodias in "Salome" (1953) and an Indian woman named Buffalo Cow Head in "A Man Called Horse" (1970).
        Dame Judith's television successes included her portrayal of Lady Macbeth in 1960 in an NBC-TV "Hallmark Hall of Fame" production. Born to Be Evil
        Early in her career, in a 1924 issue of Theater Magazine, Dame Judith wrote, "I like emotional roles because they permit unleashing of one's feelings."
        She gave full rein to those feelings in "Medea," a role she seemed to have been born to play. The Broadway production ran for 214 performances and went on an eight-month tour coast to coast. In 1949, she played the part again in New York City in the Jeffers adaptation, this time at City Center, in a production presented and staged by Guthrie McClintic. She performed in the play again in later years, venturing as far as Paris, Berlin and Canberra, Australia.
        As time passed, she came to take a broad view of the actor's craft. "We live, we breathe, we experience, we die, we love, we hate, we experience beauty and tragedy, and we find it in the parts we play," she said in a 1984 interview, adding, "Whatever I do, I'm passionate about."
        Dame Judith first appeared onstage in 1915 in Sydney, Australia. She made her New York stage debut in 1918 and went on to spend much of her life in the United States.
        When she appeared in a 1936 production of "Hamlet" at the Empire Theater, Brooks Atkinson wrote that in her performance as Hamlet's mother, the queen, she had "abandoned the matronly stuffiness that usually plagues that part and given us a woman of strong and bewildered feeling." She went on to play Lady Macbeth in London in 1937.
        In 1971 she realized a long-held dream by playing Hamlet in a production staged at Carnegie Hall, but her performance was not well received. Resonance of Tradition
        Reviewing the 1982 revival of "Medea," in which she played the nurse who tries in vain to thwart Medea's murderous intentions, Frank Rich wrote in The Times that Dame Judith's presence "gives this 'Medea' the valuable resonance of theatrical tradition" and praised her acting as harrowing. The production was broadcast on public television the next year.
        She went on to play a grand dame on an NBC-TV daytime drama, "Santa Barbara," which made its debut in 1984. Her first line, spoken to her chauffeur, was "Ambrose, why have we stopped?" Then she tapped him with a riding crop. A Namesake Off Broadway
        The woman who chose to be known professionally as Judith Anderson was named Frances Margaret when she was born on Feb. 10, 1899, to James Anderson-Anderson and the former Jessie Saltmarsh. After attending Australian schools, she made her 1915 stage debut in "A Royal Divorce" at the Theater Royal in Sydney.
        Seven decades later in New York City, the former Lion Theater on West 42d Street was renamed the Judith Anderson Theater in her honor. Speaking at a ceremony there, she looked back on what she called "my failures and my successes, my tears and my laughter, my joys and my sorrows, my heartbreaks and my loves, and my pride and my gratitude for the wonderful audiences that have played their music for me to listen to."
        Dame Judith's 1937 marriage to Benjamin Harrison Lehman, a professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, ended in divorce in 1939. Her 1946 marriage to Luther Greene, a theatrical producer, ended in divorce in 1950.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      