
        Carol Weil Haussamen, a New York City philanthropist, hostess and Democratic fund-raiser, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71 years old.
        Her family said she died of cancer of the esophagus.
        Mrs. Haussamen, a real-estate heiress, was born in Manhattan, the daughter of L. Victor Weil, a real-estate executive, and the former Beatrice Schwab. She attended private schools, including the Birch Wathen School in Manhattan, acquired fluency in French from her governesses and traveled extensively when her mother showed horses. In those years the family also kept an estate in Elberon, N.J., where she spent her summers. Hostess to Ambassadors
        From her father she inherited, among other properties, a building on Central Park South, and with it a palatial 20th-floor, 18-room apartment. For the last 25 years or more her home served as a fountainhead of funds for Democratic candidates from around the country.
        She served as hostess for foreign ambassadors during the 1976 national convention, and she often entertained other visiting foreign dignitaries as well. She played a role in every subsequent campaign, though her family said that in this Presidential election year she had to curtail her activities somewhat because of her health.
        She was the president of the nonprofit Carol W. Haussamen and Carolyndale Foundations, which she dedicated to the rehabilitation of housing for the poor. She also headed Forty Central Park South Inc., a company that owns and manages apartment buildings.
        She served in various capacities on the Governor's Committee on Scholastic Achievement, Just One Break Inc., Manhattan Industrial Home for the Blind, Community Board No. 5, First Women's Bank of New York, Urban Design Council, Citizens Housing and Planning Council, Association for a Better New York, Mayor's Midtown Committee and Roosevelt Island Development Corporation.
        Her marriages to Crane Haussamen and Monroe Hemmerdinger ended in divorce.
        Mrs. Haussamen is survived by a son, Dale Hemmerdinger of Manhattan; a daughter, Lyn Hemmerdinger of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      