
        Charlotte Jones, an actress who appeared in plays and musicals on and Off Broadway and in regional theater, died on Nov. 6 at Community Medical Center in Toms River, N.J. She was 76 years old and lived in Toms River.
        Her death was reported yesterday by her husband, Matteo Bocchino, who said she died of heart disease.
        Ms. Jones, whose original name was Charlotte Nathanson, was born in Chicago on Jan. 1, 1916. She was a graduate of Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa, and attended Loyola University Medical School and Loyola University Law School in Chicago. A first marriage, to Dr. Richard Jones of Chicago, ended in divorce in 1947; subsequently Ms. Jones came to New York City to make a career as an actress and dancer, and won her first role on Broadway in 1952 in the musical "Buttrio Square," starring Billy Gilbert. In 'Camino Real'
        She appeared in Elia Kazan's Broadway production of Tennessee Williams's play "Camino Real" in 1953, and acted in the play again when it was revived at Circle in the Square in 1980 under the direction of Jose Quintero.
        She created the dual roles of Madame Branislowski and Mother Burnside in the 1966 Broadway production of "Mame," starring Angela Lansbury; played the Wall Street widow, Mrs. Millhauser, in the 1967 Broadway musical comedy "How Now, Dow Jones," and acted with Katharine Hepburn on Broadway in 1976 in "A Matter of Gravity." She also played the role of the Fortune Teller in Mr. Quintero's Kennedy Center revival of "The Skin of Our Teeth," starring Elizabeth Ashley, which came to Broadway in 1975.
        Off Broadway, Ms. Jones appeared in the 1962 production of Thornton Wilder's "Plays for Bleecker Street" at Circle in the Square, in a production directed by Mr. Quintero. She also appeared in "Serjeant Musgrave's Dance" in the 1966 production at the Theater de Lys.  Over 60 Character Roles
        Her other Off Broadway credits included "Red Roses for Me," "The Girl on the Via Flaminia," "The Sign of Jonah," "The Knight From Olmedo" and "The Night Is Black Bottles."
        Ms. Jones played over 60 character roles in stock theater, and performed in national tours, including that of "Come Blow Your Horn." Her Hollywood films included "Muggable Mary, Street Cop," "Lovers and Other Strangers," "The Fool Killer" and "Middle of the Night."
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard David Jones of Three Rivers, Mass.; a daughter, Jeanette Jones Backs of Atlanta; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      