
        Gertrude Shurr, who performed in the 1920's and 30's with such pioneering American modern dance companies as Denishawn, the Humphrey-Weidman Concert Company and the early Martha Graham company, died on Thursday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 88 years old.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said Dr. Rachael Yocom, a friend.
        Born in Riga, Latvia, Miss Shurr came to the United States as a child. Her first professional fee, as she later described it, was a penny she earned dancing in the streets with an organ grinder whose music she liked. She began her formal dance training at the Denishawn school of Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn and also studied with Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman and Martha Graham. Taught Notable Figures
        She danced with the Denishawn company from 1925 to 1927, leaving to join the earliest Humphrey-Weidman company, with which she danced from 1927 to 1929. She left to teach at the Graham school, corralling students at other studios for Miss Graham's first classes for adults. Miss Shurr joined the Graham company in 1930, dancing in many Graham classics in her eight years there. Among them was "Primitive Mysteries," which she helped Miss Graham revive in 1982.
        Miss Shurr left the Graham troupe to perform with May O'Donnell, another company member, with whom she opened a dance studio in New York City; students there included Robert Joffrey and Gerald Arpino, who later founded the Joffrey Ballet. In the early 1940's she received bachelor's and master's degrees in physical education, specializing in dance, from San Francisco State College and the University of Oregon, respectively.
        Miss Shurr taught at the High School of Performing Arts in New York for more than two decades, serving as chairman of the dance department for three years. A tiny woman with a robust sense of humor, she established a reputation as a tough but loyal and influential teacher. Her students included the entertainers Ben Vereen and Liza Minnelli. She also was assistant choreographer for the Broadway musicals "Sadie Thompson" (1944) and "Top Banana" (1951).
        Miss Shurr retired in 1971 but continued to work sporadically as a rehearsal coach. She was a dance adviser for the Arizona Commission on the Arts and directed the University of Utah's Opportunity Theater and Dance Workshop, a summer program. Last year she was named an Arizona Dance Treasure by the Arizona Dance Arts Alliance.
        She is survived by her brother, George, of Manhattan.
      