
        Hanya Holm, a major choreographer of modern dance and Broadway musicals, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 99 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of pneumonia, said Heidi Holm, her daughter-in-law.
        To theatergoers, Miss Holm was known as the choreographer of musicals including Cole Porter's "Kiss Me, Kate" and "Out of This World" and Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe's "My Fair Lady" and "Camelot." To modern-dance aficionados, Miss Holm was the most significant choreographer and dancer to have come out of the Central European Expressionist dance tradition in Germany. Its most noted figure was Mary Wigman, and Miss Holm was her student. Her 1937 "Trend," a dance of social protest, is considered a masterwork of American modern dance. Miss Holm has been considered a member of a pantheon of American modern-dance choreographers that included Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman.
        A funny, humane and uncompromising woman, Miss Holm encouraged her pupils to find their own individual ways of artistic expression. Her students included leading choreographers as diverse as Alwin Nikolais, Murray Louis, Glen Tetley, Don Redlich and Lucinda Childs. Sound and Movement
        Born in Worms, Germany, Miss Holm, whowas originally named Johanna Eckert, pursued a career in dance against her family's wishes. She had been exposed to dance at the Dalcroze Institute of Applied Rhythm in Frankfurt in 1915. The theories of Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, a Swiss composer and teacher who helped his music and dance students develop a sense of rhythm by translating sounds into movement, had at that point influenced a generation of German modern dancers, of whom the best known was Wigman. Miss Holm was dancing with Wigman's troupe by 1921 and taught in her school in Dresden. She remained a leading Wigman teacher and dancer for 10 years, creating roles in "Feier" and "Totenmal," which she helped Wigman choreograph. It was during this time that she changed her name.
        In 1930-31, Sol Hurok brought the Wigman company to the United States for a transcontinental tour. Hurok had urged Wigman to found an American school, and she agreed, sending Miss Holm to America to direct it. Miss Holm arrived in New York City in September 1931, and for the next five years she devoted herself to teaching. She bought the school when its popularity began to decline after the first year, and in 1936 the school was renamed the Hanya Holm School of Dance. The new style she was developing, she told her pupils, was based on the proposition that "emotionally the German dance is basically subjective and the American dance is objective." The distinction, she added, was "one of 'being' as contrasted with 'doing.' "
        Miss Holm took on other teaching positions in important dance institutions, among them, in 1934, the Bennington College Summer School of Dance, the forerunner of the American Dance Festival, where the "Trend" was first performed. In 1941, she developed the influential summer dance program at Colorado College in Colorado Springs, where she continued to teach until 1983. Part of the success of her teaching lay in her pithy instructions to students. "Keep the beat," she told them, "but undermine it." Another instruction was to "use the feet as if you would pick up a flower with your toes." Her students were familiar with the command to "feel it, children, don't schlep it." 'Living Essence'
        She often expressed her disagreement with what she saw as an emphasis on chill technical expertise in American dance teaching. "If I see one more leg extension, I've had it," Miss Holm said in 1984. "There is security in a major leg extension. But it means nothing. The simplest thing is to shun the emotions and emphasize technique. But you become like a nice stove that doesn't give any heat." One had to be careful, she noted, of trying to instill that "little bit of living essence." "You can't take something away without
        giving
        something," she said.
        She had begun choreographing in 1928, but her American concert career began in 1937 with a tour of Midwestern colleges. She made her New York debut that year in a program that included "Trend," her first major work in America, which had a cast of 33 dancers, some of them from her own company and the rest students at Bennington. A depiction of society's being destroyed by its false values, then saved by a cataclysm, "Trend" was an ambitious, architectonic dance that unfolded in eight sections on a massive set designed by Arch Lauterer that consisted of free-standing columns, an elevated platform and a ramp. Many years later, Miss Holm said the difficulties and expense of reconstructing the set prevented her from reviving the dance.
        John Martin, writing in The New York Times, called "Trend" a "substantial piece of artistry" that "undertakes to deal with a colossal subject" in dance whose "designs appear in great sweeping dimensions, developing out of their own content, unhurried and unfaltering." He added that "Trend" was "not only the season's most important work but might be considered also as one of the most important works of the period, for it advances the dance signally along the road it has so rightly chosen."
        One of the best descriptions of Miss Holm's dances and of "Trend" came, however, in an observation made by the choreographer about Wigman's work. "In her dances she alternately grapples with space as an opponent and caresses it as though it were a living, sentient thing," Miss Holm said. "In her gestures and movement she carves boldly and delicately visible and fluid forms, shaping, surrounding and sinking in the space which presses close about her." Early TV, Then Broadway
        Miss Holm became a United States citizen in 1939, the same year she received the Dance Magazine Award for "Tragic Exodus," a powerful dance of social commentary. In 1939, she also became the first concert dancer to present her work on television in the United States, showing a shortened version of "Metropolitan Daily," a humorous depiction of a daily newspaper.
        Miss Holm had abandoned modern dance for the Broadway stage by 1947, although she continued to create dances for her summer students and choreographed four well-received dances for the Don Redlich Dance Company in the mid-1970's and mid-1980's. Her first success was with the 1948 "Ballet Ballads," a suite of dances she created with Katherine Litz and Paul Godkin to music composed by Jerome Moross, with lyrics by John Latouche.
        As a result of the success of her dance, "The Eccentricities of Davy Crockett," Miss Holm was invited to choreograph "Kiss Me, Kate" in 1948 and won a New York Drama Critics Award. Over the next 18 years, she created dances for 13 musicals becoming known for her ability to meet the stylistic needs of each show. In 1952, she became the first choreographer to copyright a dance: her choreography for "Kiss Me, Kate," submitted as a written Labanotation score on microfilm.
        Among Miss Holm's other Broadway musicals were "Out of This World," "My Darlin' Aida" and "The Golden Apple." She also created the dances for the London and Tel Aviv productions of "My Fair Lady." She choreographed and directed the opera "The Ballad of Baby Doe" in 1956 in Central City, Colo., and Gluck's "Orfeo ed Euridice" for the second annual Vancouver International Festival in 1959. Among her film and television assignments were the dances for the 1955 film version of "The Vagabond King." Miss Holm was also known for her essays, published in periodicals and books, on dance teaching and technique.
        Her honors included an award from the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies for her contributions to modern dance in 1958, the Capezio Award, the Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award in 1984 and the Astaire Award in 1987. "It just happened," Miss Holm said of her career in accepting the Scripps Award, "and whatever has happened was with love, dedication, good will, gladly and well. I keep on doing it as good as I can and as long as I can."
        Miss Holm's marriage to Reinhold Martin Kuntze, a painter and sculptor, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by her son, Klaus, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and three granddaughters, Karen Trautlein of Wilkes-Barre, Angela Holm of San Diego and Jessica Werbin of New Haven, Conn.
      