
        Elaine Whitelaw, for half a century the chief fund raiser and a major force for the March of Dimes, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 77.
        She died of cancer, said her daughter, Patricia Snyderman of San Francisco.
        In 1943, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt tapped her to join the national women's committee of the March of Dimes, which he founded to fight polio, Miss Whitelaw recognized the philanthropic potential of middle-income Americans. By creating a network of volunteers and programs for children and mothers, she made them the backbone of one of the country's most successful charities.
        A dozen years after it began, the March of Dimes was helping to rid America of polio and has used the network Miss Whitelaw created to continue financing the fight against a variety of birth defects. 'She Was Irresistible'
        "She was the general of a volunteer army," said Beverly Sills, the national chairwoman of the March of Dimes and a longtime friend of Miss Whitelaw's.
        As a fixture on the national charity-ball scene, Miss Whitelaw embodied can-do do-gooding. Both colleagues and those she tapped relentlessly for contributions said she practiced what she preached. They described her as demanding, innovative, boundlessly energetic and fiercely determined.
        "When she approached me about becoming involved with the March of Dimes she said, 'Other charities want to put your name on their stationery. I want your time, your energy and your money,' " Ms. Sills recalled. "She was irresistible."
        Roseamond Elaine Whitelaw was born on Nov. 21, 1914, the oldest child of Louis Whitelaw, a wealthy diamond merchant, and his wife, Dora. Along with two younger brothers, Seymour and Jordan, Miss Whitelaw grew up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She graduated from Smith College, where she studied American history and art. She returned and embarked on a lifelong mission of balancing society and its entitlements and the social obligations of Roosevelt's New Deal.
        "There was no question that I was going to work," she said last year. "But of course I wasn't going to work at some perfume counter and take a job from someone who needed it." After a brief stint as a script reader, an early marriage that ended in divorce and the birth of her daughter, Patricia, she volunteered to raise money for the Loyalist side in the Spanish Civil War. She moved on to volunteer for the National War Fund.
        She later married Otto Brodnitz, an economist and stockbroker, and the couple lived on the Upper East side of Manhattan until his death in the mid-1970's.
        After joining the March of Dimes in 1943, Miss Whitelaw created a network of volunteers who sought donations in cinemas and door to door. She also used her prodigious organizational abilities to help orchestrate the field tests of the Salk polio vaccine. "Her influence was all pervasive,' said Dr. Jonas Salk, founder of the Salk Institute in San Diego, Calif.  Serving Hot Meals
        Later, along with Eleanor Lambert, she organized a fashion show to benefit the March of Dimes that Time magazine called "the event of the year." In 1976, she began "Gourmet Galas," dinners prepared in various cities by local celebrities and judged by culinary experts. Today, there are 40 different galas across the United States.
        After retiring from the March of Dimes last year, Miss Whitelaw volunteered as a regional director of the Enterprise Foundation, a national organization involved in housing the poor. Increasingly concerned with homelessness, drug use and AIDS, she spent nights last winter riding a Planned Parenthood van and counseling women who lived or worked on the streets in the Bronx.
        "The only way we're going to get them in for treatment is to feed them," she told a reporter at the time. "They don't know they might be sick. They know they're hungry, their children are hungry." Within days, she had cooking equipment and food donations, and, in her Adolfo suits and Ferragamo shoes, she helped serve hot meals from midnight to dawn.
        One of the young women she fed, a runaway, took words from Miss Whitelaw's vocabulary to describe her. "She's a great dame," she said.
        Miss Whitelaw is survived by her daughter; her brother, Seymour Whitelaw of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      