
        Georgia L. McMurray, a leader in developing services for children in New York City, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 58.
        A quadriplegic, she had been suffering from a progressive nervous disease, said the Rev. Gerald L. Wagner, a friend.
        Ms. McMurray was a former Commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development and deputy general director for programming of the Community Service Society of New York.
        She was teaching as a professor at Fordham University's School of Social Work at the time of her death. She was also the president of a consulting firm, the GLM Group, which provides research, training, technical assistance and other management services to governmental and nonprofit organizations concerned with programs for children and families.
        Her many honors included the Essence Award this year, given to her by Essence, a magazine for black women. This year, too, the Children's Aid Society cited her for distinguished service.
        Ms. McMurray managed to continue her work even though her own disabilities forced her to walk on crutches.
        Ms. McMurray was a graduate of Temple University and held a master's degree in social services from Bryn Mawr College. She came to public attention 22 years ago as the founder of Project Teen Aid for pregnant adolescents, which still exists.
        The Lindsay administration tapped her in 1969 to develop services for young children and families as director of an Early Childhood Task Force. Two years later she became the first head of the child-development agency, an umbrella for the city's child-care and preschool programs not handled by the Board of Education. Under her guidance the number of day-care centers multiplied and the number of children served rose from 5,000 to 40,000.
        She worked at the Community Service Society from 1978 to 1986, producing reports on homelessness and the changing demographics of urban poverty, and developing model programs for children and youths.
        Ms. McMurray is survived by her mother, Daisy Fulen, and two sisters, Caroline Johnson and Narvine Fulen, all of Philadelphia.
      