
        Clara M. Hale, who nurtured hundreds of abandoned and orphaned babies, the most fragile victims of New York City's epidemics of drug abuse and AIDS, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of complications of a stroke, her family said.
        Mother Hale, as she was known, was a pioneer in self-help efforts in poor neighborhoods and came to symbolize the untapped potential of disadvantaged groups taking care of their own. She eventually won international recognition for her efforts, and President Ronald Reagan saluted her as an "American heroine" in his 1985 State of the Union address. Battled Bureaucrats
        At times she battled government bureaucrats who resisted her unorthodox methods. But public support helped her gain government grants and persuade officials to bend rules like the requirement that young children be reared in private homes instead of the group care she provided.
        She started her work with babies in 1969 in her Harlem home and soon moved the program to a five-story brownstone at 145 West 122d Street. In the early days, the babies slept in cribs next to Mother Hale's bed.
        As recently as a few months ago, she kept at least one child in her room, often choosing the neediest one. She expressed frustration when failing health made her too weak to hold a baby. Took in Nearly 1,000 Infants
        Aided by donations, a growing staff and volunteers, Hale House took in nearly 1,000 infants, many still trembling from withdrawal pangs after becoming addicted to drugs in the womb.
        With nourishment, nurture and play, most of the addicted infants recovered from the effects of fetal drugs and alcohol. But those born infected with the AIDS virus faced a drastically shortened life of suffering that Hale House tried to alleviate.
        Her program especially drew attention in the 1980's, when so-called boarder babies languished for months in municipal hospitals, at a cost of several hundred dollars a day for each one. No one else wanted them, and the city's social-services agency was ill-prepared to place them.
        "I'm not an American hero -- I'm simply a person who loves children," Mrs. Hale said recently. Explaining her approach to the children, she said: "We hold them and touch them. They love you to tell them how great they are, how good they are. Somehow, even at a young age, they understand that. They're happy, and they turn out well."
        She said she expected to keep caring for children "until I die."
        Hale House's policy is to reunite children with their families after the parents recover from their addiction, and it says it has been able to do so with about 90 percent of the children. Some children remained exceptionally close to Mother Hale, who considered them part of her own family.
        Mrs. Hale's philosophy and mission were rooted in the travails of her own life.
        She grew up in Philadelphia. Her father was murdered when she was a child, and her mother took in boarders and ran a lunchroom for longshoremen. Mrs. Hale credited her mother -- who died when she was just 16 -- with instilling the values on which Hale House is based.
        After high school, she married Thomas Hale. They moved to New York, where he ran a floor-waxing service and studied business administration in night classes at City College. Mrs. Hale worked as a domestic and cleaned Loews theaters. Left to Rear 3 Children
        Her husband died of cancer when she was 27, leaving her to rear three children, Nathan, Lorraine and Kenneth. At first she cleaned homes by day and theaters by night.
        But then, reluctant to leave her youngsters, she started taking in other children for $2 a week and eventually became a licensed foster parent. She took in seven or eight children at a time. Eventually she reared 40 foster children, keeping them out of trouble and steering them from the temptations and dangers of the street. She emphasized reading and good behavior, and frequently treated them to trips to museums and other outings.
        All made it through high school and many went to college, and they rewarded Mrs. Hale with 60 children of their own whom she regarded as her grandchildren.
        The next phase of Mrs. Hale's life started in 1969, by chance. Her daughter, Lorraine, was driving on 146th Street when she was distressed to see a drug-addicted woman on a crate nodding off with her 2-month-old baby slipping out of her arms. 'She Says You Sent Her'
        Impulsively, Miss Hale stopped, got out and admonished the woman to seek drug treatment and temporarily leave the baby with Mrs. Hale -- then 63 years old and retired.
        The next morning, they later recalled, Mother Hale telephoned Lorraine to say, "There's a junkie at my door, and she says you sent her." Lorraine confirmed that she had, and Mrs. Hale took the baby. Word spread, and soon a steady stream of babies were placed with her.
        Lorraine Hale went on to earn doctorates in developmental psychology and child development. In the mid-1980's, she became the executive director of Hale House and later its president. She plans to continue operating Hale House and its growing programs at other sites.
        Hale House was renovated in 1975 with aid from Percy E. Sutton, then the Manhattan Borough President, with nurseries, a central kitchen and dining room, a playground, and many mirrors, placed at a toddler's eye level.
        Throughout the Beame and Koch administrations, Hale House won waivers from state regulations barring group nurseries for children under the age of 5. But in 1989, saying that the crack epidemic had crested and the city was doing better in finding foster homes for children, the Dinkins administration stopped referring children to Hale House. Increased Fund-Raising
        Mrs. Hale refused to give up. The flow of children continued, brought to Hale House by desperate parents, police officers, churches and other groups. To finance their care without government money, Hale House increased its private fund-raising.
        Its budget last year was $3.5 million, and Hale House has been championed over the years by celebrities like Lena Horne, John Lennon and Tony Bennett.
        In the last two years, Hale House has expanded its programs. They include housing and educating mothers after detoxification; apprentice training for youths who start to stray, and a home for mothers and infants infected with the AIDS virus. The organization also hopes to create Hale Haven, a larger version of the original Hale House, which will continue to house infants.
        In addition to her daughter, Lorraine, Mrs. Hale's survivors include two sons, Nathan and Kenneth, and several grandchildren.
        A service will be held at noon on Wednesday at the Riverside Church on Riverside Drive at 122d Street in Manhattan, with viewing from 9 to 11:20 A.M.
      