
        Stella Adler, an exponent of Method acting whom many considered the leading American teacher of her craft, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 91 years old.
        She died of heart failure, said Irene Gilbert, the director of the Stella Adler Conservatory in Hollywood.
        Miss Adler was born into a celebrated acting family rooted in the Yiddish theater. She made her stage debut at the age of 4, appeared in nearly 200 plays in the United States and abroad, and occasionally directed productions. She also shaped the careers of thousands of grateful performers, including Marlon Brando, Warren Beatty and Robert De Niro, at the Stella Adler Conservatory of Acting, which she founded in Manhattan in 1949 and where she taught for decades.
        Mercurial, with honey-blond hair and expressive gray-green eyes, Miss Adler was aristocratic, physically and vocally, and her teaching was passionate, scholarly and volatile, delivered with evangelical showmanship, wicked wit and pungent phrases. She kept her students spellbound by raging, purring, cursing, cajoling and, from time to time, complimenting. 'She Dares Her Students'
        Her classroom performances were among the most energetic in New York, Foster Hirsch wrote in his 1984 book "A Method to Their Madness." "Stella," he wrote, "is theatrical royalty who instills in her students a sense of the nobility of acting. She dares her students to
        act
        , to lift their bodies and their voices, to be larger than themselves, to love language and ideas."
        Miss Adler counseled: "The teacher has to inspire, to agitate. You cannot teach acting. You can only stimulate what's already there." Often blunt, she told one actress: "You've got no talent! Nothing affects you!" As a young actor mumbled through a monologue, she shouted, "Everything is Hoboken to you!"
        Miss Adler's most frenetic years were with the Group Theater, the experimental Depression-era company founded by Harold Clurman, Lee Strasberg and Cheryl Crawford. It was a pivotal movement in the growth of American performing arts, uniting writers, directors and actors in working to shape socially relevant theater. Members of the ensemble were leading interpreters of the Method, the technique based on the work and writings of Konstantin Stanislavsky, the legendary Moscow Art Theater actor and director, who died in 1938. The Two Methods
        The Method revolutionized American theater. Classical acting instruction had focused on developing external talents, while Method acting was the first systematized training that also developed internal abilities, sensory, psychological, emotional.
        Strasberg, who headed the Actors Studio until his death in 1982, rooted his view of the Method on what Stanislavsky had stressed in his early career, that the actor should perform extensive "affective memory" exercises, improvising and conjuring up "the conscious past" to convey emotion: for example, dwelling on a personal tragedy to show anguish.
        Miss Adler, opposing this approach, went to Paris and studied intensively with Stanislavsky for five weeks in 1934. She found he had revised his theories to stress that the actor should create by imagination rather than by memory and that the key to success was "truth, truth in the circumstances of the play."
        "Your talent is in your imagination," she taught. "The rest is lice." She discussed plays as scripts for actors, exploring the texts for performance clues. She also believed that the art, architecture and clothes of an era were important in shaping a role. The Limits of Reality
        One student volunteered, "When you told me to imagine a lake in Switzerland, I couldn't help but remember a real lake I had seen in Switzerland."
        "Then put your lake in Morocco," Miss Adler replied. "You must get away from the real thing because the real thing will limit your acting and cripple you. To think of your own mother's death each time you want to cry onstage is schizophrenic and sick."
        "Don't use your conscious past," she advised. "Use your creative imagination to
        create
        a past that belongs to your character. I don't want you to be stuck with your own life. It's too little."
        She encouraged students to read about Stanislavsky's exercises to ease muscular tension and aid concentration, but she did not teach them. Strasberg contended that she had abandoned the internal emphasis of the Method and that her classes were ineffectual. She argued that he so exceeded Stanislavsky's intent that his teaching was psychologically and emotionally intimidating and dangerous, producing neurotic, self-indulgent actors.
        Their approaches were vastly different, but the results could be similar. Ellen Burstyn, who studied with both teachers, as many other actors did, concluded: "Stella stresses imagination and Lee stresses reality. You use Stella's imagination to get to Lee's reality. They are finally talking about the same thing." 'You Can't Be Boring'
        Miss Adler demanded not only craftsmanship but also self-awareness, calling it the key to an actor's sense of fulfillment. When students failed to understand roles, she acted them out, insisting: "You can't be boring. Life is boring. The weather is boring. Actors must not be boring."
        "Get a stage tone, darling, an energy," she advised, "
        Never
        go on stage without your motor running."
        Stanislavsky, she said, created a way for actors to bring the truth to audiences to lift their spirits and enrich their lives. One student accused Miss Adler of expecting too much of young people who "haven't gone out in the world and done all that experiencing she talks about." But most of her students shared the view of another who concluded, "Stella Adler taught me more in five minutes today than any of my other teachers have taught me in five years."
        Besides teaching principles of characterization and script analysis at her school, Miss Adler had been an adjunct professor of acting at the Yale School of Drama and for many years headed the undergraduate drama department at New York University. Born to a Stage Family
        Stella Adler was born in Manhattan, on Feb. 10, 1901, the youngest daughter of Jacob Pavlovitch Adler and the former Sara Levitzky. The Russian immigrant couple, who led the Independent Yiddish Art Company, were the leading classical Yiddish stage tragedians in the United States. Stella's five siblings, most notably Luther, were also actors.
        She started on the stage in 1905 at the Grand Street Theater on the Lower East Side. Over the years, she played both girls' and boys' roles and then ingenues in a wide variety of classical and contemporary plays in this country and abroad.
        Her work schedule allowed little time for schooling, but when possible she studied at public schools and New York University. She was introduced to Stanislavsky's theories in 1925 when she began taking courses at the American Laboratory Theater school, founded by Richard Boleslavski and Maria Ouspenskaya, former members of the Moscow Art Theater.
        In the Group Theater, Miss Adler won high praise for performances in such realistic dramas as "Success Story" by John Howard Lawson and two seminal Clifford Odets plays, "Awake and Sing!" and "Paradise Lost." She was also hailed for directing the touring company of Odets's "Golden Boy." 'More to Give to People'
        Recalling her decade with the company, she deplored above all a dearth of good roles for women in what she regarded essentially as "a man's theater aimed at plays for men." But she credited the company with evoking in her an idealism that shaped her later career. "I knew that I had it in me to be more creative, had much more to give to people," she said. "It was the Group Theater that gave me my life."
        She also appeared in three films: "Love on Toast" (1938), "Shadow of the Thin Man" (1941) and "My Girl Tisa" (1948). Her later stage roles included a fiery lion tamer in a 1946 revival of the drama "He Who Gets Slapped" and, in London, an eccentric mother in a 1961 black comedy, "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad." Among the plays she directed was a 1956 revival of the Paul Green-Kurt Weill antiwar musical "Johnny Johnson."
        Miss Adler restated her theories in "Stella Adler on Acting," published by Bantam Books in 1988. In an interview in The New York Times, she said she hoped the book would "help actors who had no foundation and no place to get a foundation, and no culture in which a foundation was encouraged." In the past, she had often deplored the highly commercialized Broadway theater, the growing cult of the director and what she termed the "thoughtless, naturalistic" style of most American actors. Her lectures on playwrights and script interpretation are to be published by Alfred A. Knopf.
        For many years Miss Adler lived in a spacious apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan that she had decorated in elegant Italian Renaissance style.
        Her third husband, Mitchell Wilson, a physicist and novelist, died in 1973. Her previous marriages, to Horace Elea scheff and Harold Clurman, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; a sister, Julia, of Englewood, N.J., and two grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be private. The family said a memorial service would be held later.
      