
        Several thousand friends, admirers and family members filled Riverside Church yesterday to celebrate the life and to mourn the death of Clara M. Hale, the woman who sheltered and raised hundreds of abandoned and orphaned children in her home.
        The service, an afternoon of heart-felt tributes, seemed to offer solace to those who were most touched by her example. Mother Hale, as she was widely known, died last Friday of complications from a stroke. She was 87 years old.
        "Our lady of inner-city royalty," was the title given her by Percy E. Sutton, the businessman and former Manhattan Borough President, who in 1975 helped Mrs. Hale find and renovate a Harlem brownstone on West 122d Street which became Hale House, only a half-dozen blocks from Riverside Church. His description prompted a string of "amens" that rippled through the listeners.
        Standing amid the seasonal red and green of bright poinsettias and fragrant Christmas pines, Mr. Sutton and others recalled Mrs. Hale's capacity for loving each of her children, for placing mirrors at toddler's eye level in Hale House, for taking the frailest of babies into her own room overnight. 'We're Almost Home'
        A noonday mist dampened the gray stone on the outside walls of the church facing the Hudson River along Riverside Drive, but inside, song from the lips of the Addicts Rehabilitation Center Gospel Choir seemed to reach up toward the rich blue of the church's stained glass windows.
        "We're almost home," sang the 30-member choir, many of whom came of age, and mind, at Hale House. They swayed back and forth in red and yellow robes as they sang: "I'm so tired and weary, no more do I want to roam."
        The service, which lasted 100 minutes, opened with a procession of so many politicians, community leaders and members of Mrs. Hale's extended family that it took more than 10 minutes for them just to file in and be seated. Mayor David N. Dinkins, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts, the Rev. Al Sharpton and Yoko Ono were among those in the procession.
        A coffin of light-colored poplar was wheeled to the front of the church during the service. Afterward, it was guarded by a detail of the Harlem Youth Marine Cadets outside before it was taken for burial. Mrs. Hale's family asked that the location be kept private.
        "Woe to those who thought this woman old and frail," said Mayor Dinkins, who was greeted by a standing ovation when he went to the pulpit. "She had twice the stamina of most others.
        "The best tribute we can give is to keep her legacy alive," he added, saying that efforts would be made to fulfill Mrs. Hale's wish to establish a hospice for dying children at Hale House. Quoting the poet Langston Hughes, he concluded: "Beautiful also are the souls of my people. Mother, may you rest in peace." 'Like She Knew'
        Mr. Sutton recalled his fondest memory of Mrs. Hale, which was when she rose to acknowledge the applause she received from Congress in 1985, after being cited as a "true American hero" in a State of the Union address by President Ronald Reagan.
        "She rose gently, with the smile she always gave, like she knew that she owned everything," Mr. Sutton said. He described her reluctance at first to appear with Mr. Reagan because the President, as Mr. Sutton put it, "was not being too kind to people in the neighborhood where she lived." She resisted the invitation with the excuse that she was ill, but after the White House insisted that her daughter, Lorraine, appear in her place, Mrs. Hale eventually gave in.
        Among the day's speakers was the Rev. Carolyn Knight, Mrs. Hale's pastor at the Philadelphia Baptist Church.
        "She touched children no one else would touch," Ms. Knight said. "She showed us that what children really need is a hug and a kiss and a smile.
        "In this season, when much is spoken of angels sent from God, Mother Hale was an angel," she said.
        Ms. Knight recalled speaking with Mrs. Hale in a quiet moment about a year ago.
        "She said: 'Carolyn, do you believe God knows my way? Do you believe I will go to heaven when I die ?' "
        Ms. Knight closed the service with a final goodbye, provoking tears in the eyes of many listeners: "Farewell, farewell, you gentle lovely lady, we shall meet again."
      