
        Helen Joseph, a white dissident who was repeatedly detained and harassed by the South African Government in a long struggle against apartheid, died today in a hospital here. She was 87.
        She died of complications from a stroke she had suffered two weeks ago, news agencies reported.
        Mrs. Joseph became prominent here as a symbol of white opposition to the racial policies of her adopted land in the years after World War II when apartheid gained legal force. In this way, she was ahead of most other white foes of the system of racial separation.
        The Government responded in kind, for more than three decades placing the often-ailing, ever-defiant Mrs. Joseph under various forms of house arrest and issuing banning orders that prohibited her from receiving more than one visitor at a time.
        She was also declared a "listed person," a punishment intended to prevent her from being quoted in any form.
        Even when formally silenced, she never accepted the restrictions, imposed under the Suppression of Communism Act. "You can't silence yourself," she once told an interviewer.
        In the ranks of anti-apartheid campaigners, Mrs. Joseph was a militant, an associate of Nelson and Winnie Mandela, who once referred to her as part of their "family." From Polite Background
        It was not a role that her upbringing might have suggested. Born in Sussex in England in 1905, Helen Beatrice May Fennell seemed set for a middle-class English life. She graduated with an honors degree from the University of London in 1927 and went on to teach for three years in India.
        Arriving in South Africa in 1931, she settled in Durban, married a dentist, and "threw herself into the life style of a socialite," as The Weekly Mail of Johannesburg said in 1986. "In those days," the profile of her added, "she was known as beautiful and flighty, leading a life of wining and dining and bridge parties."
        Friends say her service as an information and welfare officer in the Women's Auxiliary Air Force in World War II and a subsequent decision to become a social worker in Cape Town and Johannesburg exposed her to some of the realities of South Africa.
        Divorced in 1948, she became a founder of the Congress of Democrats, the white wing of the African National Congress. In 1955, she was present for the adoption of the congress's Freedom Charter, a blueprint for a South Africa without racial discrimination.
        The following year, Mrs. Joseph helped lead a march of 20,000 women on the Union Buildings in Pretoria to protest the extension of laws requiring blacks to carry passes. She was arrested and charged with treason, and a year later was put under the first of a series of banning orders. Overcame Cancer
        In 1961, Mrs. Joseph was acquitted of treason after a marathon trial. But from 1962 to 1971, as a banned person, she was not allowed to receive visitors on weekends or at night, or to socialize with more than one person at a time. The order was lifted when she entered a hospital for cancer treatment.
        "I had a cancer operation and then I had a major heart attack," she told an interviewer, "and they must really have thought, 'This old girl can't go on much longer.' "
        But she did go on, campaigning at English-language universities. In 1978, she was jailed again, this time for contempt after she refused to testify against Winnie Mandela.
        In August 1983, she became a sponsor of the United Democratic Front, which orchestrated the protest campaign of the mid-80's on behalf of the still-outlawed African National Congress. The campaign led to international sanctions against South Africa and ultimately to President F. W. de Klerk's offer of political change and to Mr. Mandela's release in 1990.
        By then some reforms had begun, including the lifting of racial restrictions in public places. It seemed that Mrs. Joseph had outlasted a legal system that persecuted her. But her age and health problems, like a painful infirmity from leg fractures, confined to a wheelchair. She was no longer strong enough to speak at rallies.
        Nonetheless, when Mr. de Klerk conducted a referendum in March, seeking approval to continue talks toward nonracial democracy, Mrs. Joseph appeared in public to tell supporters that she was voting for changes she had sought for more than four decades.
      