
        Kay Boyle, a short-story writer and novelist renowned for her deft and powerful style and her keen insights into human nature, died on Sunday night at the Redwoods, a retirement community in Mill Valley, Calif. She was 90 years old and lived at the Redwoods, where she had moved from San Francisco several years ago.
        She had been in declining health for a year, said her son, Ian von Franckenstein of Kentland, Calif.
        Miss Boyle wrote four dozen books, including many works of fiction, seven books of poetry and four books for children. But it was for her short stories, which were published in The New Yorker, Harper's and elsewhere, that she was particularly acclaimed. Some critics have called "The White Horses of Vienna" (1936) an especially fine collection of her stories.
        She won two O. Henry Memorial Awards for short-story writing, one for the title story of that 1936 collection and one for "Defeat" in 1941. She also won a Guggenhiem Fellowship in 1934. The Lady as Radical
        The writer Stephen Vincent Benet once described Miss Boyle's style as being "as bright as an icicle and light as the bones of a bird." And the critic Louis Kronenberger once contended that the fineness of her insights was "such as no other writer of our time, in English at least, can match."
        Her work, which also included essays and translations, commanded admiration from critics for more than half a century. It was colored by years of living in different parts of Europe -- she moved to Brittany in 1923, then lived in Paris and elsewhere -- and by social and political concerns. Her 1936 novel "Death of a Man" contained material from her life in Austria in the mid-1930's.
        Late in her life, Miss Boyle wrote that she saw herself "as a dangerous 'radical' cleverly disguised as a perfect lady." She reported that she could not remember a time beyond the age of 6 when she had not been committed in favor of, or opposed to, something. Her activities ranged from helping the families of conscientious objectors in World War I to supporting human-rights causes and demonstrating against United States involvement in Vietnam. But she also had passionate and abiding literary concerns.
        Reviewing a 1988 collection of her short stories, "Life Being the Best & Other Stories," edited by Sandra Whipple (New Directions), Ann Hornaday wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book celebrated her "enduring artistic discipline.' At Home in Europe
        "Unlike some of her better-known peers," Ms. Hornaday wrote, Miss Boyle "survived the halcyon days of Paris in the 1920's," and although she "is not as notorious as some of the other Moderns -- those intrepid expatriate writers who set out to change language, mesh literature and social context and expose the dissonance of contemporary life -- she evokes these tensions with a gossamer fineness."
        Miss Boyle was born in St. Paul on Feb. 19, 1902, the daughter of Howard P. Boyle and the former Katharine Evans. She spent much of her childhood in Europe and then returned to the United States, where she attended school in Washington for a time.
        After financial problems, the family moved to Cincinnati. Miss Boyle took violin lessons at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music and attended the Ohio Mechanics Institute from 1917 to 1919, intending to go into architecture.
        With her first husband, Richard Brault, a French engineer whom she had met in Cincinnati and married in 1923, Miss Boyle briefly lived in New York City, where she attended Columbia University. The couple then went to Europe, where Miss Boyle stayed for almost 20 years, living in England as well as France and Austria, and taking a fellow American expatriate, Laurence Vail, as her second husband in 1931 after she was divorced from her first.
        In that period, she looked more kindly on Europeans than on her compatriots and on many of her fellow female writers. "I like to be with people who work -- English, French, or any foreign working people," she wrote, but "I am ill at ease with Americans."
        She observed that most women "do not write simply or violently enough for my taste." She added, "I should like my prose to be lucid, direct and lean." A Poet in Later Years
        Miss Boyle and Mr. Vail returned to the United States in 1941. They later divorced, and in 1943 she married Baron Joseph von Franckenstein.After World War II she was a correspondent in Europe for The New Yorker for a time. She went on to become a professor of English and creative writing at San Francisco State University from 1963 to 1979.
        Her son said her last new book to be published was was "Words That Must Somehow Be Said: Selected Essays of Kay Boyle" (North Point Press, 1985).
        Reviewing "50 Stories," a collection of her work published in 1980, Vance Bourjaily wrote in The New York Times that the stories included such techniques as "literary simplification, rhythmic repetition, the mixing in of vernacular, stream of consciousness, density of impressions, radical imagery and experiments with surrealism." The collection was republished this year by New Directions Books.
        Mr. Von Franckenstein said Miss Boyle had continued to write and that most of her recent work was poetry, some of which had been published.
        In addition to her son, an actor whose stage name is Ian Swift, she is survived by a sister, Joan Detweiler of Sarasota, Fla.; four daughters, Sharon Cowling of Vezenobres, France; Kathe Vail, who lives outside Paris; Clover Vail of New York City, and Faith Gude of Boston; 17 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      