
        Vivienne Segal, a musical-comedy star who appeared on Broadway in "The Desert Song," "No, No, Nanette," and "Pal Joey," died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 95 years old and lived in Beverly Hills.
        She died of heart failure, said Robert Sidney, a friend.
        Miss Segal was born in Philadelphia, where she studied voice. She made her operatic debut in 1915 singing the title role of "Carmen" at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia. The next year she took the leading role in "The Blue Paradise" at the Casino Theater in New York City, a show with which she toured for two years. On returning to New York, she appeared in many reviews, musicals and operettas, including "The Little Whopper" and "The Yankee Princess." In 1924, she was featured in the "Ziegfeld Follies." As the 'Fair Young Girl'
        The roles capitalized on her fresh-faced beauty and sweet voice. "Just because I was little and could sing and wasn't too bad to look at, I was called a prima donna and was cast repeatedly in operettas and musical comedies as the fair young girl who was good and noble and got what she deserved," Miss Segal complained to an interviewer in 1940.
        If Miss Segal found her roles limiting, audiences in the 1920's and 30's doted on her in musical confections like "Florida Girl," "The Desert Song," "The Chocolate Soldier," "Music in the Air," "The Three Musketeers" and "No, No, Nanette."
        Miss Segal made her film debut in 1927 in an early sound short, singing excerpts from "Sweethearts" and "Maytime." She also appeared in "Song of the West," "Golden Dawn," "Bride of the Regiment" and "Viennese Nights," all made in 1930, and in "The Cat and the Fiddle" (1934). She later told an interviewer that she went on strike to protest the saccharine roles she was given. A Change in Style
        In 1938, the lyricist Lorenz Hart came to the rescue, offering her the role of a cynical countess in "I Married an Angel" on Broadway. "He was the only one who really got me out of a rut of playing sweet-faced ingenues and taught me how to play comedy," she told an interviewer in the early 1950's.
        Two years later came her breakthrough role, as the hard-boiled Vera Simpson in "Pal Joey." Describing her show-stopping number, "Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered," Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote, "In a singularly sweet voice she sings some scabrous lyrics by Lorenz Hart to one of Richard Rodgers' most haunting tunes."
        After appearing in the Richard Rodgers revival of "A Connecticut Yankee" (1943) and in "Great to Be Alive!" (1950), she did a reprise of her role in "Pal Joey" in 1952, for which she was named best actress in a musical by the New York Drama Critics.
        On television she appeared in "Studio One" and "Alfred Hitchcock Presents."
        Her first marriage, to Robert D. Ames, an actor, ended in divorce. In 1950, she married Hubbell Robinson Jr., a vice president of CBS. He died in 1974.
        She is survived by a sister, Louise Paget Kowalski of Los Angeles.
      