
        Fannie Bear Besser, who at the age of 20 became one of New Jersey's first female lawyers and did legal work until she was 90, died on Friday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. She was 92 years old and lived in East Orange, N.J.
        She died of multiple ailments, her family said.
        Mrs. Besser, who grew up in Newark, went directly from high school to the New Jersey Law School, now a part of Rutgers University. She enrolled there because it was the only school where she could attend night classes while working days, as a secretary.
        She graduated first in her class, at age 20. Because she was under 21, she had to receive special permission from the state's chief justice to take the bar examination.
        After practicing general law for four years, she left her career to have her children and rear them.
        In the late 1930's she returned to legal work as a volunteer lawyer for various agencies: the New Jersey Board of Mediation, the Army's Legal Department, the Governor's Commission for Refugees after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and the Governor's Landlord-Tenant Committee in the 1960's.
        In 1968 she became a full-time volunteer lawyer at the Essex-Newark Legal Services in Orange. There she advised and represented elderly people until her health failed 18 months ago.
        Her work was honored by two Army commendations, a New Jersey State Bar award in 1986 and Governor Thomas Kean's Humanitarian of the Year Award in 1989. In 1990, the Rutgers Law School Alumni Association created the Fannie Bear Besser award for public service. She was the first recipient.
        She was married for 56 years to Hyman Besser, who founded an accounting firm in Newark. He died 14 years ago.
        Surviving are her son, Albert G., of South Orange; two daughters, Edith Segall of Harrison, N.Y., and Ann Scott of Windsor, Maine; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 11, 1992, Friday
        An obituary on Sunday about one of the first female lawyers in New Jersey rendered her last name incorrectly in some editions. She was Fannie Bear Besser.
      