
        Jean R. Yawkey, the majority owner of the Red Sox, a fixture at Fenway Park for almost half a century and a major Boston philanthropist, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, six days after suffering a severe stoke. She was 83 years old.
        Despite reports that she had been in failing health last year, Mrs. Yawkey had continued to attend Red Sox home games.
        In addition to her active role with the Red Sox and her extensive charitable work, Mrs. Yawkey had been a director of the National Baseball Museum and Hall of Fame since 1984, when she became the first, and so far only woman elected to the board.
        As the widow of Thomas A. Yawkey, the multimillionaire sportsman who bought the Red Sox for $1 million in 1933 and lost an estimated $10 million trying to build championship teams over the next 44 seasons, Mrs. Yawkey saw it as her duty to live up to his free-spending ways after his death in 1976.
        For a while, however, it appeared that the team would fall into other, less generous, hands. In 1978, the Yawkey estate was on the verge of selling the team to a syndicate formed by Haywood C. Sullivan, a Red Sox executive, and the team's former trainer, Edward G. (Buddy) LeRoux Jr., with Mrs. Yawkey as a limited partner.
        But the deal was so heavily leveraged that it failed to win the approval of the baseball commissioner until Mrs. Yawkey, who put up the Fenway real estate as part of her stake, agreed to join the group as the third general partner. At the time of the transaction, the club was valued at $20 million.
        The arrangement proved stormy almost from the start, with Mr. LeRoux pressing for measures that would earn profits for the partnership and Mrs. Yawkey just as determined to continue operating the team in the grand Yawkey tradition. Mr. Sullivan for the most part sided with Mrs. Yawkey, and Mr. LeRoux was increasingly isolated.
        By 1987, Mrs. Yawkey held a two-thirds interest to Mr. Sullivan's one-third share, and she was very much in charge from then on, relegating Mr. Sullivan to little more than a figurehead. Denied the Ultimate Goal
        Although Mrs. Yawkey's business adviser and presumptive heir, John Harrington, the president of the JRY Corporation, which holds the Yawkey Red Sox shares, was often mistaken for the real power behind the franchise, those close to the club insisted that Mr. Harrington was merely the prime minister and Mrs. Yawkey was always the queen.
        Like her husband, who saw his team win three pennants but never a World Series championship, Mrs. Yawkey, too, was denied the ultimate goal. During her tenure, the Red Sox won the American League East three times, but in their only World Series appearance, lost to the Mets in 1986.
        Mrs. Yawkey, whose original name was Jean Remington Hollander, was born in Brooklyn on Jan. 24, 1909, and raised in Freeport, L.I.
        Her first marriage apparently ended in a divorce within a short time, and from the early 1930's until the 1940's, Jean R. Hiller, as she was known, worked as a model at Jay Thorpe, a fashionable women's store on West 57th Street in Manhattan.
        It was there that she supposedly met Mr. Yawkey during a visit to the store with his first wife, Elise Sparrow Yawkey. The couple, who had married in 1925, six years after Mr. Yawkey had inherited $20 million at the age of 16, divorced in November 1944, and Mr. Yawkey remarried the next month. Followed Games Closely
        At Fenway, Jean and Tom Yawkey maintained his and her rooftop boxes. He liked to sit and drink with his cronies and cuss, it was once explained, while the more dignified Mrs. Yawkey sat with their wives or close friends.
        Her attendance at Red Sox games was more than duty. She meticulously kept score in a custom-bound set of score cards.
        Mrs. Yawkey rarely missed the annual visit to Cooperstown, N.Y., for Hall of Fame inductions. She became a major benefactor of the museum, donating two wings to the building and commissioning the famous basswood statue of Williams at work by Armand LaMontagne.
        She apparently has no immediate survivors.
      