
        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii. She was 49 years old.
        She had a blood disorder involving hypoglycemia and metastatic cancer, said Timothy Maloney, the hospital administrator. Dr. Barnett was on medical leave from the University of Houston, where she had been president since 1990. She was visiting Hawaii with her husband, Walter E. King, on a trip to where they had spent their honeymoon.
        Before becoming president at Houston, Dr. Barnett had been an administrator at other major universities, including the City University of New York. She had a reputation as a successful fund-raiser and a pragmatic academic who urged that urban universities play a dominant role in spurring economic growth and solving social problems in the same way that land-grant colleges of a century ago did in developing America's agricultural economy.  Seeking Stronger Links
        "What will characterize the superb 21st century university," she said at her inaugural in 1990, "will be its ability to manifest and focus areas of unquestioned institutional excellence on the challenging issues of the day."
        Her views were representative of a substantial shift in higher education as universities, once isolated from their locales, sought stronger connections to their surroundings. And in many ways, Dr. Barnett was seen as representing a new generation of educational leader. While she had access to politicians and business leaders, she also worked to reach out to the public schools where she worked.
        As vice-chancellor for academic affairs at the City University of New York from 1983 to 1986, she was instrumental in establishing a program to help poor high school students make the transition to college and good jobs. She instituted a similar program at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, where she was chancellor from 1986 to 1990, and did the same in Houston.
        Houston is a public university with 33,000 students that performs $45 million a year in scientific research. It has become especially well known for its work in superconductivity. Recording Firsts
        In 1989, Dr. Barnett was considered a leading candidate to replace Chancellor Richard R. Green of the New York City schools after Dr. Green died. The position went to Joseph A. Fernandez.
        When she was named the first black and the first woman to be president of the University of Houston, there were few other women in charge of colleges that were neither historically black nor all female, a situation that still exists. The only woman to lead a campus larger than the University of Houston is Donna Shalala, who is chancellor of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, which has 38,000 students.
        But Dr. Barnett constantly tried to play down the racial distinction of her position. When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?" That usually ended the conversation.
        During her brief tenure in Houston, Dr. Barnett became a leading spokeswoman for urban universities and university-driven economic development. She also played a key role in raising more than $150 million for her institution, including a donation of more than $50 million from an alumnus, John Moores, one of the largest gifts ever made to a publicly financed university.
        Dr. Barnett was born in Charlottesville, Va., on May 21, 1942. She graduated from Antioch College in 1964 and received her master of science and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Chicago. She taught at the University of Chicago and at Princeton, Howard and Columbia universities before turning to university administration.
        She was a member of the boards of the Student Loan Association and the Educational Testing Service. Last July she was the only university representative named to the President's Commission on Environmental Quality, a group that will recommend ways to slow the destruction of the environment without restricting business excessively.
        Dr. Barnett is survived by Mr. King; her daughter by a previous marriage, Amy Barnett, of New York City, and her mother, Mary Eubanks, of Houston.
      