
        Dr. Gloria Friedman Franklin, a psychoanalyst and faculty member of the William Alanson White Institute of Psychiatry, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old.
        She died of breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. Girard Franklin, also a psychoanalyst.
        Dr. Friedman, as she was known professionally, felt it important not to hide her illness because of the effect on therapy, her husband said. When she assumed the presidency of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society in May 1990, she gave an address titled, "Impact of a Therapist's Life -- Threatening Illness on the Therapeutic Situation." The address was published last year by the magazine Contemporary Psychoanalysis.
        At the time of her death, Dr. Friedman was a training and supervising analyst at the William Alanson White Institute in Manhattan besides being a member of the faculty. She was to start teaching a course on women's issues in psychoanalysis next week.
        She was also a training and supervising analyst at the Institute for Psychotherapy, an attending psychologist at Roosevelt Hospital and a lecturer in psychiatry at Columbia University.
        She was particularly known for her work on mother-daughter relationships. In a study on raising children in The New York Times Magazine in March 1985, Dr. Friedman was quoted as saying: "The cultural expectations will always be more powerful than any biological differences. From day one, a mother treats a boy baby differently from a girl baby. Cultural imprinting is so subtle that we can't help ourselves. But it's not a bad thing. We're raising them for the culture they have to live in."
        Born and raised a New Yorker, Dr. Friedman graduated from New York University, from which she also received a Ph.D. She earned a master's degree in psychology from City College.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gary, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Lisa, of Philadelphia, and Eve Lynes, of San Mateo, Calif.
      