
        Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn, a leading fashion model in the 1940's and 50's, died Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Huntington L.I.
        She died of pneumonia, a family representative said.
        An elegant blonde, the Swedish-born model posed for some of the most famous photographers of the age, including Horst P. Horst, George Hoyningen Huene and Irving Penn, whom she married in 1950. In the late 1940's, when most models were paid $10 to $25 an hour, she was earning $40 an hour. When most models's careers ended before their 30th birthdays, hers flourished until she was past 40.
        She was a frequent subject of Penn's photographs for Vogue magazine, particularly his studies of French haute couture. Alexander Liberman, the editorial director of Conde Nast Publications, which publishes Vogue, said the Penns represented "an extraordinary relationship between a photographer and a model."
        "She was the inspiration and subject of some of Penn's greatest photographs," Mr. Liberman said yesterday. "She epitomized a very noble period of fashion and couture. She gave a classical dignity to anything she wore." 'A Good Clothes Hanger'
        Lisa Fonssagrives had a more down-to-earth attitude to her contributions as a model. She was quoted in a 1949 article in Time magazine as saying: "It is always the dress, it is never, never the girl. I'm just a good clothes hanger."
        In addition to modeling, she also pursued careers as a ballet dancer, a photographer, a fashion designer and a sculptor.
        She was born in Uddevalla, Sweden. Her father, a dentist who also painted, changed the family name from Anderson, which he considered too commonplace, to Bernstone. Her mother made clothes and encouraged Lisa to study art and ballet.
        Lisa Bernstone went to Paris to pursue a dancing career. She met and married Fernand Fonssagrives, a dancer, there in 1935. Photographs Led to Modeling
        A year later, Horst took some photographs of her that led to a modeling career. Pictures of her appeared in Vogue and Harper's Bazaar and after moving to the United States with her husband in 1939, she worked both as a model and as a photographer.
        She continued both careers after her divorce and subsequent marriage to Penn. After she stopped modeling in the mid-50's, she designed clothes for about six years, at one point doing a collection of leisure wear for Lord & Taylor.
        In the 1960's, she devoted her time to sculpturing, working in marble, bronze and fiberglass. She was represented by the Marlborough Gallery.
        A book on her work as a model is scheduled for publication later this year in Germany.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      