
        Emilia Sherman Maurer, who put the Rockettes through their paces from the gala opening of Radio City Music Hall on Dec. 27, 1932, until she retired as director of the dancers more than 40 years later, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhassett, L.I. She lived in Point Lookout, L.I., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        Miss Sherman, who used her maiden name professionally, had kept her age a secret and left "explicit instructions" that it remain so, her son said. She died after a long illness, he said.
        A close associate of Russell E. Markert, who founded the Rockettes in 1926, Miss Sherman choreographed many of the young dancers' routines. These included signature tap routines as well as her specialty, dance presentations she developed from the folk dances of many nations.
        When Mr. Markert moved his troupe to Rockefeller Center in 1932, Miss Sherman became its captain as well as a dancer in the chorus line. She drilled the other dancers, showed them their steps and movements and kept them in line.
        She quickly became a principal aide to Mr. Markert and, for more than 15 years, was his associate director. She became director upon his retirement in 1971. She retired in 1973.
        Miss Sherman, a native of New York City, attended Professional Children's School here and later studied ballet and flamenco dancing. She made her vaudeville debut at the age of 6 and first went on a Broadway stage when she was 12 years old.
        She learned her first tap steps from another dancer in Shubert Alley minutes before an audition, winning a job as a specialty act. From then on, she was known for her ability to pick up steps quickly and create new ones on her own.
        This led her to choreography as a career. At Radio City, this entailed conjuring up a new spectacle with every change in the movie program, about once a month. Miss Sherman also played den mother and sergeant major to the 46 precision dancers in the troupe, any 36 of whom kicked off four times daily in a wheeling straight line nearly a city block long. In addition, she rehearsed the dancers four hours a week.
        Miss Sherman is survived by her husband of 56 years, Henry S. Maurer; their son, Henry S. Jr., of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a daughter, Arnelle Liblit of Commack, L.I., and one grandson.
      