
        Helen Deutsch, the award-winning screenwriter for "Lili," "I'll Cry Tomorrow" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and co-author of "National Velvet," died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 years old.
        She had been under nursing care and died of natural causes, the medical examiner's office said.
        Her script for "Lili" was nominated for an Academy Award in 1953 and won Cannes Film Festival and Writers Guild of America prizes and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's Golden Globe award.
        The film told of an orphan, played by Leslie Caron, smitten with a carnival magician. One critic, Bosley Crowther, called the movie "lovely and beguiling" and "touched with the magic of romance and the shimmer of masquerade." It later became a musical hit, "Carnival!" on Broadway.
        Miss Deutsch, who never learned to type and instead relied on a old Dictaphone, was prolific. Besides her 15 screenplays, she wrote more than 20 short stories for magazines, hundreds of newspaper articles and several plays and television scripts. She was a lyricist as well. Among her songs was "Hi-Lili-Hi-Lo," which she dismissed as "dreadful." Organized Drama Critics Circle
        Although not a performer, she played many other roles in show business. Early in her career she ran a theater company, worked as a publicist and covered theater for The New York Herald-Tribune and The New York Times. As a protest to the Pulitzer Prize selections, she organized the New York Drama Critics Circle. She also worked for the New York Theater Guild, and later was a production consultant for stage, film and television.
        Her screenwriting career started with a smash. "National Velvet" (1944), which was about youngsters training a horse, was named one of the 10 best films that year and propelled the young Elizabeth Taylor to stardom.
        That same year she followed with another acclaimed work, "The Seventh Cross," in which Spencer Tracy gave one of the best performances of his career, portraying a refugee from a Nazi death camp.
        Most of her screenplays were for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and were adaptations of other works. Her range was wide, from psychological drama to outdoor adventure to musicals.
        "I'll Cry Tomorrow" (1956), featuring Susan Hayward, was the true story of Lillian Roth's searing battle with alcoholism. "King Solomon's Mines" (1950) with Stewart Granger was a scenic safari picture. "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" (1964) was a big, brassy musical about a survivor of the Titanic, and the movie garnered six Oscar nominations. Television Credits
        But her film-writing career ended on a sour note. "Valley of the Dolls" (1967) was a steamy box office success but critically scorned. Miss Deutsch disavowed authorship and said Jacqueline Susann, on whose novel the movie was based, had meddled with the script.
        For television she wrote "Jack and the Beanstalk," starring Joel Grey, for NBC in 1956. The following year she wrote "The General Motors 50th Anniversary Show."
        Miss Deutsch was born in Manhattan and graduated from Barnard College in 1927. While still a senior, she started managing the Provincetown Players, continuing till the troupe went out of business. She co-wrote a book about it in 1931, "The Provincetown," which was republished in 1972. She took up freelance writing, and her stories appeared in the Saturday Evening Post, McCall's, Ladies' Home Journal, Cosmopolitan and Redbook.
        When Hollywood beckoned, she went to California, living there from about 1946 to 1966. Returning to the East Coast, she called herself "a recluse in New York."
        Miss Deutsch was a student of medieval English, French, German and English and a Sanskrit scholar. She collected rare books and manuscripts and donated a significant collection to Boston University.
        She had a brief marriage that was annulled. There are no immediate survivors.
      