
        Ellen H. Johnson, an influential art historian and curator who taught at Oberlin College in Ohio for 38 years, died yesterday at her home in Oberlin. She was 81 years old.
        She died of cancer, said Elizabeth A. Brown, the curator of modern art at the museum.
        At the time of her death, Miss Johnson was emerita professor of art at the college and honorary curator of modern art at the Allen Memorial Art Museum at Oberlin.
        On a national level, Miss Johnson was a powerful force in the promotion of contemporary art. She gave the work of several prominent New York artists early exposure through her curatorship of the Allen Art Museum's well-known Young Americans series. She was the first to show the black-striped paintings that established Frank Stella's reputation, and she also exhibited works by Claes Oldenburg, Larry Poons and Bruce Nauman before the artists were widely known. Mr. Oldenburg's first site-specific sculpture, "Three Way Plug," was commissioned by Miss Johnson in 1970 for the Oberlin campus.
        Miss Johnson's persistence in seeking out young artists and urging acquisition of their work helped make the Allen Museum one of the country's leading institutions in the contemporary art field. And generations of students, among them Agnes Gund, now the president of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, were influenced by the popular course in modern art that she initiated at Oberlin.
        Miss Johnson left her eclectic art collection, ranging from Cezanne to the American contemporary artist Judy Pfaff, to the Allen Art Museum, where it is currently on view. In her honor, the main portion of an addition to the museum, designed by Robert Venturi and opened in 1977, was named the Ellen Johnson Gallery of Modern Art.
        Ellen Hulda Elizabeth Johnson was born on Nov. 25, 1910, in Warren, Pa. Her affiliation with Oberlin began early. She earned both her undergraduate and master's degrees there, and went on to postgraduate study at Uppsala university in Stockholm and the Sorbonne in Paris.
        After a short stint as a lecturer and cataloguer at the Toledo Museum of Art, she returned to Oberlin in 1938 as a part-time instructor, and soon became a member of the regular teaching faculty. Her interest in Scandinavian art also led her to serve as visiting professor in the field at the University of Wisconsin in 1950-51, and to teach American art at Uppsala University in 1960.
        In Oberlin, Miss Johnson lived in a Frank Lloyd Wright house, built for another owner between 1948 and 1950. Over a period of years, she painstakingly restored it and it became a showcase for her collection. She bequeathed the Wright house to Oberlin.
        She is survived by a sister, Evelina Johnson McAvoy, of Erie, Pa., and a brother, Harry Johnson, of Warren.
      