
        Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died on Wednesday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old.
        She died of lung cancer, said Frank Liberman, a family spokesman.
        A long-faced, red-haired, petite actress, Miss Walker said she was never able to play what she called a "gray character."
        "I don't understand it myself," she said in 1976, "but I have this effect on people, so when I walk onstage, they start laughing."
        That is pretty much what happened when through a case of mistaken identity she got her big break on Broadway at age 19. Her father, who was an acrobat, asked his agent to send her to see the producer George Abbott, who was auditioning actors for a new comedy, "Best Foot Forward."  Genesis of a Comedian
        She was introduced as Miss Walker -- Mr. Abbott and Richard Rodgers had been expecting a singer named Helen Walker -- and began belting out a song called "Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four." Mr. Abbott built up the "blind date" role in "Best Foot Forward" from five lines to a leading role, making her an instant success.
        She knew from age 10, she said, that she wanted to be a performer. But she said she did not realize that she could be a comedian until she started getting laughs in "Best Foot Forward."
        "After that," she said, "people just kept writing parts for me."
        But she said it was not a case of art imitating life. "Not so talkative" was how she once compared herself with the chatty characters she played onstage and on television.
        "I've always thought people who are
        on
        , offstage, save very little for onstage," she said in 1976. "You can't keep the mask on all the time: it flakes." Stealing a Show
        Miss Walker, whose name was originally Anna Myrtle Swoyer, was born on May 10, 1922, in Philadelphia. Her father changed his name to Dewey Barto when he joined a vaudeville act called the Three Bartos. When Miss Walker was 3 weeks old, her mother went back on the vaudeville circuit herself, and Miss Walker slept backstage. She crawled out into the spotlight one night when she was 10 months old and stole the show.
        After her success in "Best Foot Forward," M-G-M flew her to Hollywood and signed her to a seven-year contract. She appeared in the movie version of the play and in "Girl Crazy" and "Broadway Rhythm," playing variations of the blind-date character she had mastered on Broadway. She also appeared in "Lucky Me," which starred.
        On Broadway, she also starred as the jaded cabdriver Brunnhilde Esterhazy in "On the Town" in 1944 and later appeared in "Pal Joey," "Wonderful Town," "Look, Ma, I'm Dancin"' and "Do, Re, Mi," a spoof of the jukebox industry in which she played Phil Silvers's long-suffering wife. 'The Quicker Picker-Upper'
        She was also the face that launched a million rolls of paper towels in television commercials beginning in the 1970's, saying: "Bounty. It's the quicker picker-upper."
        She was not defensive about making commercials. "One minute's work done well is just as important as one hour," she said. "Look, if it were a bad minute, I'd feel terrible, because I get paid very well, and that would be cheating. I'm not cheating anybody. I mean, an artist is an artist no matter what he does. Besides, if I weren't doing those commercials well, I'd not have gotten on the Mary Tyler Moore show."
        On "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," she played Rhoda Morgenstern's overbearing mother, and went on to a regular role when Valerie Harper, as Rhoda, got a series of her own. In 1974, when Rhoda was finally married after a long run as Miss Moore's unmarried best friend, all Rhoda and Joe wanted was a small ceremony before a justice of the peace. But as Rhoda's mother, Ida Morgenstern, Miss Walker was determined to have a slightly more elaborate ceremony in her Bronx apartment. Rhoda wanted no more than a dozen guests. Ida invited 79.
        The show "Rhoda" ended in 1978, after a five-year run. Miss Walker also appeared in the series "McMillan and Wife" from 1971 to 1976, playing a sassy housekeeper. She was also the host of "The Nancy Walker Show," which had a brief run in 1976.
        Miss Walker's most recent work was a starring role in "True Colors," a sitcom on Fox.
        Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig; a daughter, Miranda Craig, and a sister, Betty Lou Barto, both of Los Angeles.
      