
        Anita Colby, perhaps the nation's first "supermodel" and known as "The Face" after her picture appeared on the cover of Time magazine, died yesterday at her home in Oyster Bay, L.I. She was 77 years old.
        Miss Colby died of lung disease, her sister, Francine Okie of East Greenwich, R.I., said.
        Although her career was launched and revolved around her widely acclaimed beauty, Miss Colby became an author, a newspaper columnist, an advertising executive, chief assistant to Hollywood moguls and a host on the "Today" show -- as well as a model and film actress.
        Born Anita Counihan in Washington, on Aug. 5, 1914, Miss Colby was the eldest daughter of Bud Counihan, a cartoonist for the New York Evening World and the artist for the Betty Boop series. A Stunning $100 an Hour
        At the age of 19, Ms. Colby moved to New York and soon became the nation's most famous and highest-paid model, working for the John Powers agency. With her willowy, ash-blonde beauty, she was the first model ever to receive $100 an hour -- a stunning figure in those days -- and she once appeared on the covers of 15 magazines in a single month, including Time.
        "She was the first great model," Miss Colby's longtime friend, Frances Koltun, said yesterday. "She was an extraordinarly stylish woman, and I hate to use that word because it sounds superficial, but she had exquisite taste."
        Realizing that she had chosen a short-lived career, Miss Colby moved to Hollywood after only one year as a model and, while on contract with R.K.O., appeared in nine movies, including "Mary Queen of Scots" and "Brute Force." A New Career
        But her reviews were hardly raves, and Miss Colby returned to New York in the early 1940's to take a position selling advertising for Harper's Bazaar. A column about her in The Herald Tribune on Jan. 4, 1950, written by Tex McCrary and Jinx Falkenburg, said, "Her contract called for a salary of $55 a week, plus -- and that proved to be a big plus -- 10 percent of all the advertising she brought into the magazine." Miss Colby's sister, Francine, said yesterday, "She sold more advertising than all of them."
        To her friends, according to the Herald Tribune column, she said: " 'If I ever go to Hollywood again, I'll tell those stars what to do.' And she did."
        In 1944, Miss Colby was hired by David O. Selznick as his studio's "feminine director." Ms. Falkenburg, who became a close friend of Miss Colby, said yesterday: "She was in charge of coordinating all of these stars of the Selznick stable, on screen and off. She decided how they should be photographed, how they would dress, how public they should become, what interviews they should do. She was the den mother for the top beauties in America." Turned Down Clark Gable
        And in the process, Miss Colby became friends with Ingrid Bergman, Jennifer Jones, Shirley Temple, Joan Fontaine, Katharine Hepburn and others. She also turned down marriage proposals from Clark Gable and Jimmy Stewart, but let them down easy. "I introduced them to their wives," she told a reporter in 1970 on the occasion of her first and only marriage, to Palen Flagler, a business executive. Mr. Flagler died in 1980.
        In 1947, after working for the Selznick organization, Miss Colby served as a $150,000-a-year executive assistant to the head of Paramount Pictures. She later started a public relations company in New York, wrote "Anita Colby's Beauty Book," bought and sold the Women's News Service, for which she wrote a syndicated newspaper column called "Anita Says," and appeared for six months on the "Today" show with Dave Garroway. There he hired Barbara Walters to write her scripts.
        Miss Colby is survived by her sister.
      