
        Kathryn Beliveau Feuer, a scholar of Russian literature who ruffled the Soviet authorities by befriending dissident intellectuals during the cold war, died Sunday at The Cedars rehabilitation center in Charlottesville, Va. She was 65 years old and lived in Charlottesville, where she was a professor at the University of Virginia.
        She died of complications after hip surgery, her family said.
        Dr. Feuer published a novel at the age of 21 and, during a long career as an educator, headed the Slavic languages departments at the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Toronto.
        During a research visit to Russia in 1963, she brought in miniature copies of "Doctor Zhivago" and secretly passed out the contraband to dissidents. She also arranged for the manuscript of Anna Akhmatova's "The Requiem," a lengthy anti-Stalin poem, to be smuggled out of Russia, thus enabling its publication in the West.
        Toward the end of Dr. Feuer's trip, she and her daughter were roughed up by Soviet agents in a sleeper compartment on a train, she later told American officials.
        On another day, the police in Leningrad searched Dr. Feuer's possessions and demanded that she sign confessions of having met with dissidents. But having already memorized and destroyed her notes on those meetings, she admitted nothing and was let go.
        Dr. Feuer helped Eastern European exiles settle in the West, bringing Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish poet and later a Nobel laureate, to Berkeley and Josef Skvorecky, an award-winning Czechoslovak novelist, to Toronto.
        Dr. Feuer was born in Brooklyn and grew up mostly in Nutley, N.J. In 1946, she graduated from Vassar College, where she was the editor of the literary magazine. At the age of 21 she won Mademoiselle magazine's 1947 fiction award for a short story, and soon afterward Doubleday published her only novel, "Strike for the Heart," about a young woman's soul-searching.
        She earned a master's degree at Columbia University in 1954 and a doctorate there in 1965 with a thesis based on research of Tolstoy's "War and Peace" manuscripts at his estate in Russia, where she stayed in 1963. That trip was her second to the country; in 1955 she was one of the first American exchange visitors permitted in the cold-war era.
        Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      