
        La Lupe, a singer who was known during the late 1960's as the Queen of Latin Soul, died on Feb. 28 at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. She was 53 years old.
        She died of cardiac arrest, a hospital spokesman said.
        La Lupe had a raspy voice and an uninhibited stage presence; she shook her long hair, shimmied in low-cut dresses and tossed her beads and shoes to the crowds. A string of hits she made with the bandleader Tito Puente in the mid-1960's established her as one of the most popular performers in Latin music.
        La Lupe was born Lupe Victoria Yoli in Santiago, a village in Oriente Province in Cuba. At her parents' insistence, she earned a teaching degree, but she had also been winning local singing contests, and decided to go into performing. She married a singer in the trio Los Tropicuba; after her first performance, he said he thought she was having an epileptic fit. She soon divorced him and began working on her own, and by 1960 she was a leading performer in Havana nightclubs. She bought her own club, but after difficulties with the Fidel Castro Government -- "Castro take my club, my money, my car," she told Look magazine in 1971 -- she emigrated to the United States, and settled in New York in 1962. The Making of a Star
        Soon after she arrived, she began singing with orchestras led by Mongo Santamaria and Mr. Puente, with whom she recorded a number of hit singles, including "Que Te Pedi." By the end of the 1960's, she was a star in her own right, working with Mr. Puente and with other bandleaders, and touring the United States and Latin America.
        In the mid-1970's, her jobs in New York City dwindled, and she moved to Puerto Rico, where she played concerts and television programs. She returned to New York, but her career had declined and her second husband's medical expenses depleted her savings. By the early 1980's she was living on welfare. In 1984, while hanging a curtain, she fell, injured her spine and was paralyzed; not long afterward, an electrical fire burned down her house. She sang with Mr. Puente for the last time in 1985, from a wheelchair, at a concert to help pay her expenses.
        According to Vernon Boggs's "Salsiology," a history of salsa in New York published by Excelsior and Greenwood, La Lupe regained her ability to walk after being blessed by an evangelical Christian preacher. She began singing Christian music, performing regularly at Iglesia Pentecostal el Fin Se Acerca (Pentecostal Church: The End is Near) in the Bronx. She also recorded a series of albums in salsa and Mexican styles with devotional lyrics.
        She is survived by her son, Rene Camano, and her daughter, Rainbow Garcia, both of the Bronx.
      