
        One of the most elegant tennis players ever to grace a grass court, Sarah Palfrey Danzig, a mainstay on the international circuit in the 1930's and an esteemed ambassador of the game thereafter, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 83.
        The cause was lung cancer, her husband, Jerry A. Danzig, said.
        In addition to being active in the Boston social registry from the 1930's to the 50's, she and her four sisters all claimed national tennis titles at varying points of their lives. But she was the only member of the brood who continued to have a significant impact on the tennis scene upon making the transition from junior to the adult ranks.
        In all, Danzig collected 18 Grand Slam titles, most of them in doubles where, because of her uncommon artistry around the net, she was a coveted partner in women's as well as mixed doubles competitions. And her beatific courtside manner made her a favorite with spectators in the United States and abroad, where she garnered 24 titles.
        Danzig was born in Sharon, Mass., on Sept. 18, 1912. Early on, she received the attention and instruction of Hazel Hotchkiss Wightman, the progenitor of the international Wightman Cup competition between teams from the United States and  Britain, and a front-runner in making the volley an essential component of women's tennis.
        As a result of that association, Danzig not only excelled at the net, but she was also selected to be a member of 10 Wightman Cup teams. Her doubles partners  there -- Helen Jacobs, Helen Wills Moody and Alice Marble -- constituted a veritable Who's Who of women's tennis.
        The United States National champion in singles in 1941 and again in 1945, Danzig ranked among the world's top 10 women on six occasions between 1933 and '39. She was the United States doubles champion nine times and captured the Wimbledon doubles title, alongside the equally glamorous Marble, in 1938 and '39.
        Danzig rose to prominence on the national scene as a teen-ager. At 14, she won the Junior Grass Court Doubles in 1927 and she began dominating both singles and doubles junior events the following year. By the time she acquired her last  amateur national title in 1945 at a doubles clay-court championship where her partner was Elwood Cooke, the second of her three husbands, Danzig possessed a total of 63 national titles.
        "Sarah certainly had all the elements of grace and charm and played a very stylish game," said Virginia Wade, the 1977 Wimbledon champion, who benefited from Danzig's support while still a rookie. "She always treated newcomers to the game as if they were one of the family, and she was a wonderful role model,"
        Danzig briefly turned professional in 1947 for an exhibition tour with Pauline Betz before switching her attention to a business career in which she also thrived. Besides performing charitable duties on a revolving list of social committees, Danzig worked for NBC television as a sports editor from 1956 to '57, and in 1965 became an advertising consultant for World Tennis magazine.
        Her method for attracting advertising to the magazine was unique and ahead of its time. Instead of wooing corporate clients with the traditional martini luncheon, the health-conscious Danzig booked weekly court time at a mid-Manhattan facility and supervised vigorous tennis matches among writers, editors and business executives. She herself played recreational tennis well into her 70's.
        The author of two instructional tennis books, "Winning Tennis and How to Play It" (1946) and "Tennis for Anyone" (1966), Danzig was elected to the sport's Hall of Fame in 1963. This year, a permanent exhibit in her honor will be incorporated into its collection.
        She is survived by her husband and two children, Diana Dupont of Hudson, N.H., and Jerry P., of New York, and two sisters, Polly Woodrow of San Jose, Calif., and Joanna Brown of Canton, Mass.
      