
        Margaret Bronson (Peggy) Clark, who designed the lighting for more than 60 Broadway productions, including "Brigadoon," "Bye Bye Birdie" and "Auntie Mame," died on Wednesday at her home in Lexington, Ga. She was 80.
        She died after a series of strokes, said Elmon Webb, a friend.
        Ms. Clark helped make lighting design a profession on Broadway and was one of the first women to achieve a career in the field. "She was a pioneer in creating the field," said Mr. Webb, a business agent for United Scenic Artists,  the union that represents lighting, scenic and costume designers.
        Through the 1930's, lighting design was a relatively informal process, usually the province of electricians.  Ms. Clark got her first job as a lighting designer on Broadway in 1941. Her work caught the attention of Brooks Atkinson,  the drama critic of The New York Times.
        She worked as an assistant to Oliver Smith on "On the Town" in 1944. Her work tended toward the naturalistic, not the experimental. "Peggy Clark's lighting gives the production a cool appearance," Mr. Atkinson noted in a 1958 review of  "The Threepenny Opera."
        Ms. Clark designed the lighting for a number of George Abbott's shows, including "Paint Your Wagon," a revival of "Pal Joey," and "Wonderful Town." "George Abbot liked plenty of light downstage," Ms. Clark told The New Haven Register in 1955, "because that's where he plays all the comedy scenes."
        Dame Judith Anderson, for whom Ms. Clark designed the lighting for the 1947 production of "Medea," demanded simply to "be seen," Ms. Clark said. The equipment arrived late, there was no time to rehearse and "Ms. Anderson usually  left the spot just before the light got to it."
        Ms. Clark was born in Baltimore to an academic family. Her father, Dr. Eliot  R. Clark, was later a professor of anatomy at the University of Pennsylvania. Ms. Clark wanted to be an actress, but, she told The New Haven Register, "I grew so tall I was cast only in men's parts."
        In 1935, she graduated from Smith College. She went on to Yale, where she studied in the Department of Drama and Design, getting her master of fine arts degree in 1938.
        In 1968, Ms. Clark was elected president of the United States Scenic Artists, Local 829, the first woman to hold that job. She taught lighting design at Smith College in 1967 and 1969, and at Yale Drama School in 1969 and 1970.
        For many years, she lived in Brooklyn Heights, where she kept bulldogs. She was a president of the French Bull Dog Club of America.
        Ms. Clark's husband, Lloyd R. Kelley, a theatrical electrician, died in 1972. She is survived by a brother, Douglas N. Clark, a professor of mathematics at the University of Georgia in Athens.
      