
        Jan Kerouac, a novelist and the only child of the Beat Generation's icon Jack Kerouac, died on Wednesday at Lovelace Medical Center here. She was 44.
        Ms. Kerouac died a day after her spleen was removed. She had suffered kidney  failure five years ago and had been on dialysis, said Gerald Nicosia, her father's biographer.
        Ms. Kerouac, who had met her father only twice -- when she was 9 and when she was 15 -- had fought in recent years to gain control of his archives. In 1994, she sued relatives of Mr. Kerouac's last wife, Stella Sampas, who inherited the notebooks, teletype rolls and parchment scrolls on which he wrote  "On the Road" and laid down the first rumblings of postwar alienation that set the tone for the Beat Generation of the 1950's.
        Ms. Kerouac argued that the will of Mr. Kerouac's mother, Gabrielle Kerouac,  which left her son's effects to Stella Sampas, was a forgery. Had Mrs. Kerouac died without a will, the estate would have gone to her two grandchildren, Jan Kerouac and Paul Blake Jr. Jack Kerouac died in 1969.
        Ms. Kerouac's lawyer said a trial was tentatively set for September in St. Petersburg, Fla.
        "Her main intent was to put it into a museum or a library and preserve it forever," Mr. Nicosia, the biographer, said.
        Ms. Kerouac had also tried to have her father's remains moved from Lowell, Mass., where he was born and reared, to Nashua, N.H., where the Kerouacs have a  family plot. That effort failed.
        Ms. Kerouac's first novel, "Baby Driver," was published in 1981. It dealt with her childhood on the Lower East Side of Manhattan during the turbulent 1960's. Her second, "Trainsong" (1988), was about her travels after the first book.
        She had been working on "Parrot Fever," about the death of her mother, Joan Haverty, in 1991. She was Mr. Kerouac's second wife.
        Ms. Kerouac's parents were estranged when she was born. The author denied being her father until she was 9, when he took a blood test and then acknowledged her as his daughter.
      