
        Lily Auchincloss, a philanthropist and major supporter of the Museum of Modern Art, the American Academy in Rome and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Alexandra Herzan.
        Mrs. Auchincloss was well known in New York cultural and social circles as an active and generous supporter of the arts with a keen interest in architecture and design.
        A trustee at the Museum of Modern Art since 1971, she served on more than one-third of the museum's many trustee committees, including those of painting and sculpture, drawings and prints and illustrated books, and had been chairwoman of the museum's architecture and design committee since 1981.
        In the 1990's, the several exhibitions she helped to finance included those of the architects Louis I. Kahn, Rem Koolhaus and Frank Lloyd Wright, as well as "Light Constructions" and "Cy Twombly: A Retrospective."
        In 1994, the Modern named the Lily Auchincloss Center for Architecture and Design, a research facility, and 18 architects donated drawings to the collection in her honor. Terence Riley, chief curator of the department of art and architecture, said: "She was not a passive philanthropist. Her generosity came from a belief that the world could be a better and more beautiful place." Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern, said Mrs. Auchincloss was "one of the great, great trustees of our museum and involved with every aspect of its life."
        Mrs. Auchincloss was born on April 5, 1922, in Newark. Her father, Arnold Louis van Ameringen, who was born in Holland, founded the International Flavors  and Fragrances Company. Her mother, Hedwig Pfaltz van Ameringen, who died last month at the age of 95, was a major supporter of the New York Philharmonic.
        Although Mrs. Auchincloss's first cultural interest was music, her affinity for architecture and design was kindled at Radcliffe College, where she met Philip Johnson, formerly head of the department of architecture at the Museum of Modern Art, and the architect Marcel Breuer, with whom Mr. Johnson was studying  at Harvard. She graduated cum laude from Radcliffe in 1944.
        From 1944 to 1958, Mrs. Auchincloss worked in New York City as an editor on magazines and newspapers, including Look, The World-Telegram, The Herald Tribune, Glamour, Harper's Bazaar and McCall's. In 1956, she married Douglas Auchincloss, a writer at Newsweek. They were divorced in 1979.
        A lifelong Episcopalian, Mrs. Auchincloss became a trustee of St. John the Divine in 1975, where she founded a committee that supported the cathedral's presentations of art and music. She was especially interested in large free concerts and financed the first performance of Liszt's "Christus" Oratorio in 100 years in 1979 at the cathedral.
        In 1991, Mrs. Auchincloss served on the jury for the competition for the design of the cathedral's new wing, which was won by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.
        In 1977, Mrs. Auchincloss became the first woman to join the board of the Cooper Union. She also served on the board of Japan Society, and was a director  of the Municipal Arts Society and a Fellow for Life of the Morgan Library.
        A member of the board of the American Academy in Rome since 1982, she was a major contributor to the renovation of the Academy's McKim, Meade & White building in Rome.
        In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a brother, Henry P. van Ameringen of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      