
        Dr. Constance B. Wofsy, a medical professor and clinician who created a program to educate health workers about advances in AIDS treatments, died on Monday at her home in San Francisco. She was 53.
        The cause was breast cancer, according to the University of California at San Francisco, where she was a faculty member. Dr. Wofsy was also co-director of the AIDS Program and associate chief of infectious diseases at San Francisco General Hospital.
        As co-founder of the hospital's AIDS Program in 1983 with Dr. Paul Volberding, she was influential in providing medical services for young gay men  early in the AIDS epidemic. She also created and directed a program that has attracted hundreds of health professionals to the hospital from around the world to learn about the latest techniques in AIDS care.
        Early in the epidemic she recognized that women were at risk and founded an organization in San Francisco called Aware (Association for Women's AIDS Research and Education), which offered confidential testing for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and counseling. It published some of the earliest data on the prevalence of H.I.V. infection in women at high risk in the San Francisco area.
        Dr. Wofsy was the founding chairwoman of the Women's Health Committee of the  AIDS Clinical Trials Group of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. The group oversees and carries out studies of various therapies for AIDS.
        She was one of the first AIDS experts to address the issue of workplace discrimination against H.I.V.-infected people, and provided education and training materials on the issue to corporations in San Francisco.
        Constance Wofsy was born in Cheltenham, Pa., on Oct. 6, 1942. She earned a bachelor's degree in bacteriology at the University of California at Berkeley in 1964 and a medical degree at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles in 1971. She joined the faculty of the University of California at San Francisco in 1975 and became a full professor in 1989.
        She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      