
        Jo Van Fleet, who won an Academy Award, a Tony Award and other honors for her portrayal of proud, stoical women, died yesterday at Jamaica Hospital in Queens. She was 81.
        Ms. Van Fleet was known as an actress's actress, a highly skilled professional who worked with equal ease onstage, in films and on television. For her first screen appearance in 1955, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for playing James Dean's mother in Elia Kazan's film "East of Eden." Two years later, she won a Tony Award as best featured actress for her role as the irritable Jessie Mae Watts in Horton Foote's "Trip to Bountiful."
        In her other signature role, in Mr. Kazan's "Wild River," she was Ella Garth, an 80-year-old matriarch who refuses to leave her island home despite the fact that it is about to be flooded by the Tennessee Valley Authority. In that film, Montgomery Clift played a sympathetic Government official.
        Over the years she came to be known for playing mothers of diverse ethnic backgrounds, with the range running from naturalistic drama to absurdist comedy. She was Anthony Perkins's mother in "Look Homeward, Angel" on Broadway; the original smothering mama, Madame Rosepettle, in Arthur Kopit's "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad," and Paul Newman's mother in the movie "Cool Hand Luke."
        Her maternal gallery included the wicked stepmother in the 1965 television revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Cinderella." The same year, she followed Maureen Stapleton as Amanda Wingfield in the 20th-anniversary production of "The Glass Menagerie."
        Ms. Van Fleet, who was a member of the Actors Studio, often credited Mr. Kazan with having a major influence on her career. In addition to their film work, he directed her onstage in George Tabori's "Flight Into Egypt" and Tennessee Williams's "Camino Real," in which she created the role of Camille.
        She was born in Oakland, Calif., and began her theatrical training at the College of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif. After studying with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse, she made her New York debut in "The Winter's Tale" in 1946. In 1950, she played Regan to Louis Calhern's "King Lear." In the  1950's and 60's, she was often on Broadway and occasionally Off Broadway (in "Rosemary" and "The Alligators," a double bill by Molly Kazan).
        With "East of Eden" she began a flourishing movie career. Her other films included "The Rose Tattoo," "I'll Cry Tomorrow," "A King and Four Queens," "Gunfight at the O.K. Corral," "This Angry Age," "I Love You, Alice B. Toklas" and "The Gang That Couldn't Shoot Straight." In the 1970's, she often acted in regional theater.
        Ms. Van Fleet was married to William Bales, a dancer and choreographer who died in 1990.
        She is survived by a son, Michael, of Toronto, and a granddaughter.
      