
        Kathy Ahern, a former child prodigy of a golfer who turned professional while still a teen-ager, died on Saturday at her home in Phoenix. She was 47.
        The cause was complications from breast cancer, family members said.
        Ms. Ahern won three tournaments during her career on the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, including the 1972 L.P.G.A. Championship, one of the tour's four major championships. She also won the 1970 Southgate Open and the 1972 George Washington Classic.
        An accomplished amateur who won the 1964 Texas Public Links Championship at the age of 15, Ms. Ahern was just 17 years old when she joined the L.P.G.A. Tour after her senior year in high school in 1967. As a senior in Dallas, she also won the Texas Amateur and the Texas Junior and was runner-up in the United States Golf Association Junior Amateur.
        Before a series of injuries interrupted her playing career in the late 1970's, Ms. Ahern was regularly a factor on the tour. A good ball striker with an excellent short game, she was the runner-up in the 1971 L.P.G.A. Championship, and then won the tournament the next year at Pleasant Valley Country Club.
        Although she competed rarely throughout the 1980's, Ms. Ahern remained in touch with the L.P.G.A., sometimes assisting and coaching players, or caddying on tour for her close friend, Sherri Turner.
        In May of 1991, it was diagnosed that Ms. Ahern had breast cancer. She underwent a lumpectomy and a series of radiation treatments. The cancer metastasized in 1993, but Ms. Ahern remained an active supporter of the L.P.G.A., attending a tournament as recently as the first week in June.
        "Kathy's courage and determination in the face of her illness is an inspiration to us all," L.P.G.A. Commissioner Jim Ritts said. "She was never deterred from showing her love of the L.P.G.A., her family and friends while she was making a lasting impact on the lives of many."
        She is survived by her mother, Kay Ahern, and several sisters.
      