
        Leslie D'Cora Holmes, an advocate of tenants' rights who was a member of the  New York City Rent Guidelines Board, died on Friday at a hospital in Albany. She was 39 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was a brain aneurysm, said the Legal Aid Society, where she was the supervising attorney in the Harlem office. Ms. Holmes was stricken on Friday while teaching at the summer program at Bennington College in Vermont. She was taken to a local hospital and then transferred by helicopter to the Albany Medical Center, where she died.
        Ms. Holmes, who was born in Rochester, graduated from the State University College at Purchase, N.Y., in 1982, where she studied urban affairs and public policy. She was a Root-Tilden Scholar at the New York University School of Law and received a Doctor of Laws degree in 1986.
        She joined Legal Aid in 1986 as a staff attorney specializing in housing litigation. Her cases involved federally subsidized and city-owned housing and tenant cooperatives. In her position in Harlem, which she had since 1989, she trained and supervised a staff of 12 lawyers and paralegals. The work was concerned chiefly with housing and government benefits.
        Mayor David N. Dinkins appointed her in the spring of 1993 as one of two tenant representatives on the Guidelines Board. Her term expired in December 1994, but she continued as a holdover since then.
        Last month, the board voted 6 to 2 to enact the biggest increase since 1983 for rent-stabilized apartments. Ms. Holmes, a vocal leader of the tenant protesters, cast one of the nay votes.
        She also was a member of the advisory committee to the Supervising Judge for  the Civil Court in Manhattan and served on the citywide task force on Housing Court.
        Ms. Holmes was on a leave of absence from Legal Aid so she could accept an appointment for the fall semester at Columbia University, where she was to be a  visiting faculty member at the School of Law.
        She is survived by her parents, Mitchell and Jacqualin Holmes of Rochester, and three brothers, Michael and Kirk, both of Silver Spring, Md., and Stacy, of  Arlington, Va.
      