
        Justice Birdie Amsterdam, who achieved several judicial firsts, including being the first woman elected to the New York State Supreme Court, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 95 and lived on the Lower East Side, just steps from where she was born.
        Justice Amsterdam came to be called the "first lady of the judiciary" by her  peers and other admirers, a sobriquet earned during 35 years on the bench.
        She was the first woman elected to the Municipal Court in New York County in 1940. She was active in the Democratic Party, but when she was up for re-election in 1949, she carried the endorsements of all three parties, all bar  associations, the Citizens' Union and the American Federation of Labor.
        In 1954, she was appointed Acting Justice of the City Court, another first for a woman, and won election to the office the next year.
        In 1958, she gained the Supreme Court bench as a Democrat-Liberal, supported  again by a long roster of civic, communal, educational, labor, scientific, philanthropic and religious groups. She served until 1975.
        Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye, the first woman on the Court of Appeals in Albany, the state's highest tribunal, recalled Justice Amsterdam's trailblazing  achievements in a 1991 article in the New York Law Journal.
        The State Supreme Court was more than 250 years old before a woman was elected to it, Judge Kaye wrote, and even today women do not enjoy the status of equals in the legal profession. "Thoughts of Justice Amsterdam's arrival on the  New York State Supreme Court serve to remind of us both of how far we have advanced toward these objectives and how much they continue to elude us," she wrote.
        Justice Amsterdam was one of six children of Joseph Amsterdam, a band leader  from Austria. At 12, she taught English to foreign-born neighbors. Growing up in a neighborhood of immigrants and the poor awakened a commitment to social issues that guided her life as a lawyer. Her concerns ranged from playgrounds to summer camps, from slum clearance to shelter for the aged and the infirm, and from medical care to tuition assistance that could give a student a leg up. One of her special interests was the advancement of women in the legal profession.
        She graduated on a state scholarship from Hunter College High School at 17. Waiting to meet the age requirement for admission to New York University Law School, she spent a year studying economics, banking and accounting at City College. She took evening classes at N.Y.U. and held a full-time job at Mount Sinai Hospital, keeping records and accounts.
        Once she received her law degree in 1922, Mount Sinai doctors helped her practice by steering friends her way. She swiftly established a reputation not only as a skillful lawyer but also as an eloquent friend of the downtrodden, a champion of women's rights and a diligent party worker. She became a Tammany Hall district co-leader on the East Side.
        Justice Amsterdam was honored by scores of organizations. "Who's Who of American Women" named her outstanding woman of the year for 1960 in the legal field, citing her "pre-eminent attainments and the inspiration they offer to other women in your profession."
        Justice Amsterdam is survived by a sister and brother-in-law, Cynthia and Judge Milton Sanders, with whom she shared a home on Second Avenue for 59 years, as well as another sister, Sybil Chizner of Hollywood, Fla.
        Correction:  July 11, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday of Justice Birdie Amsterdam, the first woman elected to New York State Supreme Court, misstated the given name of a surviving sister. She is Ruth Sanders, not Cynthia.
      