
        Bea Dolen, the unflappable ringmaster who oversaw the often chaotic election  process in New York City for 14 years beginning in 1974, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 83 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was a massive stroke, her family said.
        As executive director of the Board of Elections, she was in charge of its day-to-day operations, from voter registration through certification of the winners. She dispensed advice to the public on how to find the right voting booth in the right district.
        Once nominations were complete, Mrs. Dolen was responsible for getting the right names in the right place on the right ballots. She commanded the forces that moved the machinery into the booths. She also took care of absentee ballots, not to mention petitions and appeals. It was a year-round proposition,  encompassing everything from local school board elections to special elections and capped by the November stampede for borough, city, state and national office every two years.
        Mrs. Dolan worked to loosen regulations that kept some New Yorkers from casting votes. During her tenure, registration by mail became possible, as did phone registration under the "Voter 88" program. She also saw the fruits of a computerization program begun by the board in 1986. Two years earlier, when a backlog of 90,000 registrations threatened a particularly hectic Election Day, she calmed the doomsayers. She assured them: "I don't have a problem. Put that in bold type. We have a challenge. We are meeting it."
        Betty Bernstein, known as Bea, was born in Brooklyn. She studied at a commercial college and became a legal secretary. She took part in local politics as a member of the Jefferson Democratic Club, a component of the Tammany Hall machine that orchestrated Democratic politics for generations. Its boss, Carmine DeSapio, procured a job for her as secretary to the president of the Board of Elections in 1964, and she did the rest.
        Mrs. Dolen is survived by three sisters, Sophie Lipschitz of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Minnie Finke of Manhattan, and Ida Rutsky of Hempstead, L.I. Her husband,  Irving Dolen, died 12 years ago.
      