
        Audrey Meadows, whose portrayal of a working-class housewife on "The Honeymooners" placed her in the pantheon of television comedy's grandes dames, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 71.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, the actress Jayne Meadows.
        Audrey Meadows was the second actress to play Alice Kramden, whose bus driver husband, Ralph, threatened her weekly with a fist-propelled trip to the moon. "The Honeymooners" began in 1951 as part of "Cavalcade of Stars" with Pert Kelton as Alice. When it became part of "The Jackie Gleason Show" on CBS, Miss Meadows took over the role. "The Honeymooners" became a series on its own in 1955, and was initially something of a flop, running for only 39 episodes instead of the 70-plus that were planned. It was only later that the series, which is still being replayed on cable and airline flights, became what the television business calls a classic.
        Miss Meadows's route to the role of Alice was decidedly circuitous. She was born in 1922 in China, where her father, Francis James Meadows Cotter, was an Episcopal minister. He brought the family back to the United States five years later and eventually become rector of Christ Church in Sharon, Conn.
        Miss Meadows began her career as a coloratura soprano, making her concert debut at 16 in Carnegie Hall. It was her sister, Jayne, two years older, who steered her into acting.
        Things moved quickly. After a World War II stint for the U.S.O. that included Mike Todd's production of "Mexican Hayride," Miss Meadows joined "The Bob and Ray Show" on NBC Television in 1951, playing all the female roles and ducking below the camera's eye to change costumes. At one point, she sang an opera aria  standing on her head.
        In her spare time, she played the lead opposite Phil Silvers for 15 weeks in  the Broadway production of "Top Banana." And then she heard that Jackie Gleason, a hot new name in television, was looking for someone to replace Miss Kelton, who was ill, as Alice on his variety show.
        The subsequent story is right out of the legends cherished in show business.  Gleason took one look at Miss Meadows and dismissed her as too young and too pretty. Hiring a photographer, she went home, washed off her makeup, got into a  frumpy housedress and sent the photos to Gleason, who hired her without even hearing her read lines.
        During the life of "The Jackie Gleason Show," Miss Meadows appeared in different guises, including a sophisticated girlfriend of the character Reggie Van Gleason.
        When Gleason decided he had had enough of an hourlong show every week, the pieces for a new half-hour show were in place: Gleason as Ralph Kramden; Miss Meadows as Alice; Art Carney as Ed Norton, and Joyce Randolph as his wife, Trixie.
        No matter what else they did, each performer would forever after be fixed in  the public mind as the perfect embodiment of these hilarious and touching working-class characters whose problems seemed to connect with all of America. Each episode was a compact morality play. Ralph could keep on saying: "One of these days, Alice. Pow! Right in the kisser." But the audience knew he'd wind up admitting, "Baby you're the greatest!"
        Miss Meadows held her own by remaining the calm sarcastic center around which the brilliant physical comedy of Gleason and Carney swirled. Listening to Ralph's harebrained get-rich schemes, Alice would stand with arms folded and eyes disdainful. More than once, Gleason publicly praised her ability to ad-lib  and keep the sketch on course. Once when Ralph burned himself and screamed, "Isn't there any lard around here," Miss Meadows simply took a long look at Gleason and said, "About 300 pounds of it."
        The performance was perhaps too good. In a business notorious for typecasting, Miss Meadows quickly discovered that every producer wanted to keep  her in the kitchen. As recently as last year, in a New York Times interview with Bryan Miller, she lamented that she was lucky back then to get guest shots on the Dinah Shore and Red Skelton shows.
        She virtually retired from acting after her 1961 marriage to Robert Six, the  chairman of Continental Airlines, turning her attention to business activities and her family. But she did have a recurring role as Ted Knight's mother-in-law  on the 1980's sitcom "Too Close for Comfort."
        Mr. Six died in 1986.
        Miss Meadows was adamant in her praise of Gleason, who died in 1987. After several less-than-flattering biographies were published about "The Great One," Miss Meadows wrote, with Joe Daly, her own "Love, Alice: My Life as a Honeymooner." She called the book, which was published last year, "a love letter...to my television husband Ralph Kramden."
        Miss Meadows, a woman of loyalty and dignity, continued to be beset by autograph-seeking fans in restaurants and department stores. Alice had become a beloved fixture in American pop culture. People still wanted to tell her that  "Baby, you're the greatest."
      