
        Harriett Heywood Patton, a founder of Recording for the Blind and a managing  director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild, died on Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. She was 85 and lived in Bronxville.
        She suffered a brief illness, her husband, Arch Patton, said.
        Mrs. Patton is credited with contributing significantly to the growth of Recording for the Blind, which she served as president in 1954, and of the Opera Guild. She was managing director of the guild from 1959 to 1968.
        She was born in Indianapolis and graduated from Wheelock College in Boston. During and after World War II, she worked for United China Relief and the Friends of France and played a pivotal role on the Committee for Economic Development, a national organization.
        The committee brought together top corporate executives to plan for the postwar era; Mrs. Patton was recruited as deputy director.
        Acting as a welcoming party of one, she kept track of the members' comings and goings and saw to it that they were fed, chauffeured and otherwise cared for.
        In 1948, she was a founder of Recording for the Blind, and she helped build it from a local group in New York for the benefit of blind war veterans into a national organization. She crusaded across the country to get concerned people to band together in local chapters and open recording studios for volunteers to  do the readings.
        Eleanor R. Belmont, founder of the Opera Guild and a friend, persuaded Mrs. Patton to turn her attention in that direction and become managing director. During her tenure of nearly 10 years, the guild's membership and donations quickly increased, both in the United States and abroad.
        Mrs. Patton, who had served as a director, was familiar with the operation and earned a reputation for running a trim ship. Annual gifts to the guild, $90,000 in Mrs. Patton's first year as chief executive, rose nearly fourfold, to $355,000.
        She grew up in Portland, Me., and acted in summer stock for three years as a  young woman.
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Patton left no immediate family. An earlier marriage to Roswell L. Gilpatric ended in divorce.
      