
        Jean Muir, whose dismissal from the television series "The Aldrich Family" in 1950 brought widespread attention to the television industry's practice of blacklisting suspected Communists, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mesa, Ariz. She was 85.
        On Aug. 27, 1950, Ms. Muir was preparing to appear in the role of Mother Aldrich in the premiere episode of "The Aldrich Family," when the show was abruptly canceled by NBC and the General Foods Corporation, the sponsor of the series. The company and the network were responding to angry telephone calls and telegrams from readers of Red Channels, a publication that had included Ms. Muir on a list of suspected Communists and Communist sympathizers in television and radio.
        Ms. Muir denied the charges. "I am not a Communist, have never been one, and believe that the Communists represent a vicious and destructive force, and I am  opposed to them," she said after being dismissed from "The Aldrich Family." General Foods said it had no opinion on the accuracy of the charges against Ms.  Muir but that it had no choice but to dismiss her because the accusations made her "a controversial personality." Ms. Muir did not work in television again until 1958.
        Ms. Muir was born in Suffern, N.Y., and attended schools in nearby Ridgewood, N.J. She found her way into acting by chance. Returning to the United States from France after studying French at the Sorbonne, she struck up a shipboard acquaintance with members of the English company of "Bird in Hand," which was headed to New Haven for a Broadway tryout. She agreed to become an understudy, and after acting in several stock productions, she appeared in such short-lived  Broadway shows as "The Truth Game," "Peter Ibbetson," and "Life Begins." In 1933, as one of the stars of "Saint Wench," she was spotted by a talent scout and signed to a contract at Warner Brothers, which shortened her name from Jean  Muir Fullarton.
        She made more than two dozen B pictures in her four years with Warner, often  playing ingenues with a bit of flash and fire. Her films included "As the Earth  Turns," "Desirable," "Gentlemen Are Born" and "The White Cockatoo." In "A Midsummer Night's Dream," she appeared in the role of Helena. She also founded and managed a little theater company.
        In 1937 she left Hollywood and, after appearing in London in J. B. Priestley's "People at Sea" and the British film "Jane Steps Out," returned to the New York theater. She toured with the Group Theater production of "Golden Boy" and performed in summer stock. In 1939 she helped organize the American Guild of Variety Artists. In a brief return to films in the early 1940's, she appeared in "The Lone Wolf Meets a Lady," "One Is Beautiful," and "The Constant  Nymph."
        She found her way back into television in a drama on "Matinee Theater" on NBC in 1958. From 1966 to 1976 she taught drama at Stephens College in Columbia, Mo. After retiring, she taught briefly at several other colleges and universities, including the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
        She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Bauer of Mesa, and two sons, Michael  of Los Angeles and David of Belmont, Calif.
        Correction:  July 27, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary of the actress Jean Muir on Thursday misstated the title of one of her films. It is "And One Was Beautiful," not "One Is Beautiful."
      