
        Geraldine Bone Zorbaugh, a lawyer who was a trailblazer for women in the upper ranks of broadcast networks' legal staffs in the 1950's, died on Saturday  at Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. She was 91 and lived in a retirement home in Pinehurst.
        Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a secretary in her hometown, Barnesboro, in central Pennsylvania, and later in New York City, where she met her husband, had two children, graduated from law school and became prominent as a network lawyer, first at ABC.
        When she was promoted to acting general counsel at ABC in 1951, Fortune magazine said she was the first woman to achieve high rank in her field. She became general counsel and a vice president, both firsts for a woman, in 1956.
        Mrs. Zorbaugh moved from ABC to CBS in 1957, becoming general attorney for radio as well as a vice president. She retired in 1968.
        "She was a pioneer for women in management in broadcasting, and she used her  position to help other women" Eleanor R. Applewhaite, vice president and general counsel of Thirteen/WNET, the public television station, said yesterday.
        Ms. Applewhaite, who is black and was hired by Mrs. Zorbaugh in 1964 for the  radio section of CBS's law department, said: "When she hired me, I don't think there was another black attorney at any of the networks. She had a very caring attitude for the people who worked for her."
        After graduating from high school in Barnesboro and working there, Mrs. Zorbaugh came to New York. She studied at the Washington Square College of New York University while being paid for grading papers and exams at the education school at New York University.
        In 1929, she married Harvey W. Zorbaugh, a university faculty member who became chairman of the department of educational sociology. She dropped out of college for two years -- during which her son, Harvey, was born -- and then returned and received her bachelor's degree in 1932.
        After college she worked as a secretary in the radio industry, at the Blue Network, and, as Ms. Applewhaite said, "after observing what the lawyers were doing, she went to law school," in 1938.
        Mrs. Zorbaugh went on to work as a lawyer with a New York law firm and with the Blue Network before joining ABC in 1944.
        Professor Zorbaugh died in 1965.
        In addition to her son, of Columbia, Md., and her daughter, Anne Allen of East Windsor, N.J., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      