
        Anne W. Simon, an environmentalist whose books explored the perils to the world's seas and shorelines, particularly on her beloved Martha's Vineyard, died on Monday at her Manhattan home. She was 82 and also had a home in Chilmark, Mass.
        At her death she was working on a book on the changing nature of Martha's Vineyard and what might be done to save the island where she had summered for many years. An article based on its first chapter was published in the July issue of the monthly Martha's Vineyard Magazine.
        The article echoed her earlier book, "No Island Is an Island: The Ordeal of  Martha's Vineyard" (1973). There she told the tale of how the Vineyard, after hundreds of years of slumber, surrendered to tract subdivisions, an explosion of second homes, sewage spillovers and traffic jams.
        Another volume, "The Thin Edge: Coast and Man in Crisis" (1978), discussed the precarious state of dunes and beaches, wetlands and estuaries everywhere that economic development reaches them. "Neptune's Revenge: The Ocean of Tomorrow" (1984) was an unsparing critique of the environmental damage to oceans from oil spills, overfishing, the greenhouse effect and the dumping of sewage, toxins and radioactive waste.
        Anne Wertheim was born in Cos Cob, Conn., and in 1935 graduated from Smith College, where she edited the campus newspaper. She earned a master's degree at  the School of Social Work of Columbia University.
        She was a writer at radio station WNYC, became a television critic for The Nation and subsequently wrote for McCall's, Good Housekeeping and other periodicals. Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in  Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
        She was married three times and had taken the surname of her last husband, Prof. Walter Werner, while keeping her pen name. He died in 1986. Her previous marriages, to Dr. Louis Langman and Robert Simon, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a son and three daughters from her first marriage: Thomas  Langman of Washington, Betsy L. Schulberg of Westhampton Beach, L.I., Lynn L. Lilienthal of Reston, Va., and Deborah L. Lesser of Berkeley, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
      