
        Sharman Douglas, a socialite whose life was defined by her friendship as a youth with Princess Margaret and her ensuing lifelong friendship with Britain's  royal family, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan.
        John S. Zinsser Jr., a cousin, said she died of bone cancer.
        Miss Douglas first burst into the news as a teen-ager when her father, Lewis W. Douglas, was appointed Ambassador to the Court of St. James in 1947. She quickly became a close friend of Princess Margaret, and her parties in the official residence attracted the cream of young London glitterati. At a party in 1949, at which she was the host, the present Queen, who was then Princess Elizabeth, arrived dressed as an Edwardian parlor maid, Prince Philip as a waiter and Princess Margaret as a can-can girl, replete with lace panties and black stockings.
        Miss Douglas attended the Brearley School and left Vassar to accompany her parents to England. When the family returned to the United States in 1950, she made her home in New York. She did a stint at booking talent for the "Tonight" show and briefly worked in the publicity field for movie studios. In 1966, after the election of John V. Lindsay as Mayor, she joined the city's Public Events Department. She later formed Sass, a public relations company that specialized in charitable benefits and in British accounts.
        "She loved people and she was fun," said Mary Lindsay, the wife of Mr. Lindsay and a longtime friend.
        Throughout her life she was a social figure on both coasts and in England. She was a guest at the 1991 banquet in Washington given by Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh in honor of President and Mrs. Bush, and entertained Princess Margaret and Prince Philip during their visits. She was particularly visible at social events that related to England, such as a celebratory party for Queen Elizabeth's birthday, where she joined other social figures like Steven and Kimberly Rockefeller and Jean MacArthur.
        Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona. Her mother, Peggy Zinsser Douglas, was a descendant of the family that founded the Zinsser Chemical Company.
        Miss Douglas was married in 1968 to Andrew Hay, an importer. They divorced in 1977. She is survived by her brothers, Lewis W. Douglas Jr., of Denver, and James Stuart Douglas of Tucson.
      