
        Catherine S. East, a little-known Government researcher who became the quiet inspiration for the National Organization for Women and a persistent goad to the nascent feminist movement, died on Saturday at Kendal at Ithaca, a retirement community in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 80.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Elizabeth R. East, her daughter.
        Betty Friedan, whose 1963 book ''The Feminine Mystique'' is credited with helping to spark the modern women's movement, said yesterday that Ms. East was a ''prime mover'' in the 1966 birth of NOW.
        ''She and others kept saying how what we needed is an N.A.A.C.P. for women,'' Ms. Friedan said. ''I thought of myself as a writer, not an organizer, but Catherine kept emphasizing that what was needed was outside pressure on the Government.''
        Characteristically, Ms. East worked without public acknowledgment and was often so far in the background that friends in the movement started calling her ''Deep Throat.''
        As a longtime researcher for the Labor Department and later as executive director for various Federal commissions and task forces on the status of women, she came to know scores of accomplished, professional women, in and out of Government, who were concerned about sex discrimination and became important in the feminist movement.
        Moreover, she had an access to and command of facts on employment practices, workplace discrimination and other matters that she often used to disarm critics who opposed feminist legislation. But as a Government employee, she felt she could never take a public, vocal role, friends and colleagues said.
        Vera Glaser, a journalist, recalled that at a news conference early in the Nixon Administration, she pointedly asked the new President whether he would appoint more women to his Administration. Ms. Glaser was surprised to get a letter later in which Ms. East wrote, ''I gather from the tone of your question, you might be interested in a few statistics.'' It was the beginning of a fruitful relationship that helped Ms. Glaser write a widely noted five-part newspaper series on discrimination against women. ''A lot of the facts came from Catherine,'' Ms. Glaser said.
        In 1963, Ms. East helped write and research a Government report titled ''American Women,'' which called for the establishment of Federal and state commissions on women. It was at a conference of these commissions in June 1966 that a group of women came to Betty Friedan's hotel room to urge the formation of the group that, four months later, became NOW. Although Ms. East was not present in the hotel room, she had urged most of the women there to lobby Ms. Friedan.
        ''Catherine would just persist and persist until it happened,'' recalled Mary Eastwood, a retired staff lawyer for the Justice Department and a friend of Ms. East.
        The daughter of Ulysses Grant Shipe, a bank president in Huntington, W.Va., and Bertha Woody Shipe, a homemaker, Ms. East was educated at Marshall University in Huntington, where she received a bachelor's degree in history in 1943.
        In addition to her daughter Elizabeth, of Ithaca, Ms. East is survived by another daughter, M. Victoria East of Seattle; a brother, Charles D. Shipe of Great Falls, Va., and a granddaughter.
      