
        Virginia Corwin Brautigam, a scholar who helped pioneer the field of comparative religion and who traveled the world in search of knowledge about Eastern faiths, died on Monday at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. She was 95.
        Dr. Corwin, as she was know to her students and colleagues, was a professor emeritus of religion and biblical literature at Smith College, where she taught from 1930 until  retiring in 1966.
        Originally a specialist in early Christianity, Dr. Corwin's intellectual curiosity about Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam and Shinto was stimulated by a course in world religions she taught as a young assistant professor.
        Her studies took her far and wide. She walked through central India with the disciples of Vinoba Bhave, a spiritual successor of Mohandas K. Gandhi who traveled on foot from village to village preaching asceticism and social reform.
        In Kyoto, Japan, she was taken in by Buddhist monks as a visiting resident in their temple.
        And in Vietnam she hitched a ride with the United States Army, which flew her to isolated villages deep in the interior so she could study their Buddhist traditions.
        Virginia Corwin, who was born and raised in East Orange, N.J., graduated from Wellesley College, Union Theological Seminary and Yale University, where she received a doctorate in history in 1937 after studying under Robert Calhoun, Roland Bainton and Richard Niebuhr.
        Her dissertation, ''St. Ignatius and Christianity in Antioch,'' was published by Yale Press in 1960.
        Dr. Corwin's broadening interests, which went from the study of early Christianity to include more world religions, was emblematic of her generation of theologians. She began teaching when the field of comparitive religion was still young.
        ''Her generation was involved in the forming and shaping of a whole new field of study, especially for liberal arts colleges, that changed the focus of study from normative Christianity to a whole range of religions,'' said Diana L. Eck, a professor of comparative religion and Indian studies at Harvard University, who took Dr. Corwin's class at Smith and became a lifelong friend.
        Dr. Corwin remained single until she was 74 years old, when she married Herman Brautigam, a friend and colleague she had first met 40 years earlier as a student at Yale. Mr. Brautigam died in 1985.
        Dr. Corwin, who lost her eyesight in the 1970's, continued teaching courses in religion to her neighbors at Pennswood Village, her retirement home, until this March.
        She is survived by a brother, Theodore S. Corwin of Chatham, N.J., three step-children, and nine step-grandchildren.
      