
        Myra Cohn Livingston, a poet, anthologist and teacher who wrote  more than 80 books of poetry for children, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 70.
        The cause was cancer, said her son Joshua.
        As a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College, Mrs. Livingston submitted a collection of poems to Margaret K. McElderry, then the children's book editor of Harcourt Brace. Mrs. McElderry sent a gentle and encouraging note of rejection, urging the young author to keep working. Ten years later Mrs. Livingston resubmitted her manuscript, greatly revised, and it was accepted. ''Whispers and Other Poems'' appeared in 1958.
        Mrs. McElderry edited many of Mrs. Livingston's collections, including ''Dilly, Dilly Piccalilli: Poems for the Very Young,'' ''If the Owl Calls Again'' and ''B Is for Baby,'' which was published this year. Mrs. Livingston was also published by several other houses. A particularly successful thematic series including ''Christmas Poems,'' ''Celebrations'' and ''Birthday Poems,'' all illustrated by Leonard Everett Fisher, is published by Holiday House.
        A senior instructor in the Writers Extension Program at the University of California at Los Angeles from 1973, Mrs. Livingston was the poet-in-residence for the Beverly Hills Unified School District from 1966 to 1984 and the author of the critical texts ''The Child as Poet: Myth or Reality'' and ''Poem-Making: Ways to Begin Writing Poetry.''
        As a critic she was known for her firm belief that anyone who claimed to be a poet must know the classic forms before turning to improvisational or free verse.
        Mrs. Livingston was given French horn lessons when she was a child.  She later studied with Darius Milhaud and William Schuman, and played professionally. When Jascha Heifetz, a family friend, was looking for a secretary, she applied. How do you spell Mendelssohn? he asked. She answered correctly and was hired. At the time of her death she was working on a biography of Heifetz.
        Mrs. Livingston was married to Richard Roland Livingston, who died in 1990.
        In addition to her son Joshua, she is survived by another son, Jonas Cohn Livingston, both of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jennie Livingston of New York City, a film maker; a grandson, Richard Gibbons Livingston, and a sister, Hannah Pakula, a biographer.
      