
        Doris Rosenblum, an indefatigable combatant in 40 years of struggle over housing, education and development on Manhattan's Upper West Side, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71.
        Ms. Rosenblum served for the last six years as the borough historian of Manhattan, and her positions of civic authority included her job as district manager of Community Board 7 on the Upper West Side from 1983 to 1990. But the impact of the woman who came to embody neighborhood advocacy in New York City extended far beyond that conferred by official titles.
        Ruth Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, said in an interview yesterday that ''she was and always will be remembered as the Mayor of the Upper West Side.''
        Ms. Rosenblum was so deeply involved in the affairs of her neighborhood -- from the decentralization of authority over the public schools in the 1960's to the development battles of the 1980's -- that many people regarded her as an irreplaceable force.
        ''She is as much a part of the West Side as the No. 2 train,'' Ronnie Eldridge, the City Council member, said when Ms. Rosenblum retired from Community Board 7 in 1990.
        Born June 30, 1925, on Manhattan's Lower East Side, and raised in the South Bronx, she first engaged the political establishment of the Upper West Side when she moved there in 1959 with her husband, Paul, a printer for The New York Times and a scholar in African history.
        Within months of her arrival, she began investigating conditions in her children's public school, joined and was elected president of the neighborhood branch of the United Parents Association and led a campaign for smaller schools under greater neighborhood control. That culminated in 1971 when she was part of the group that founded the first alternative high school on the Upper West Side, the West Side High School.
        Ms. Rosenblum's most far-reaching impact may have been in her fight to maintain housing for low-income and middle-income people amid the massive urban renewal projects, including Mitchell-Lama apartments and public housing that  were built on the Upper West Side during the 1960's and 1970's.
        ''She always wanted to make sure that urban renewal was not urban removal,'' her husband said. Ms. Rosenblum's base of influence included the Strycker's Bay Neighborhood Council, where she served as a board member and president, and later Community Board 7, where she became a member in 1971.
        After 12 years as a board member, she was appointed district manager of the board in 1983, making her a central mediator, fact finder and advocate at a time when the Upper West Side was awash in huge development plans. Until 1990, when she resigned, she coordinated neighborhood opposition to several projects, including huge developments planned for the site of the New York Coliseum and Donald Trump's Riverside South property.
        Ms. Rosenblum was appointed as the official historian of Manhattan -- a voluntary post -- by Ms. Messinger in 1990.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosenblum is survived by her mother, Fannie Koppelman of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth, of Ashland, Mass., and a brother, Frank, of Queens. Her son, Peter, was killed in an auto accident in 1981.
      