
        Phyllis Pearsall, who created the famous ''A to Z'' maps of London by traversing more than 3,000 miles of roads throughout the city, died on Wednesday, her business, Geographers' A-Z Map Company, said today. She was 89 years old and lived in Shoreham, England.
        Mrs. Pearsall began producing her maps, which show London's labyrinth of streets from the busiest thoroughfares to the tiniest cul-de-sacs, after getting lost using a map that was 17 years old but proved to be the most up-to-date available. To get her first edition right, she often walked for 18 hours a day, rising at 5 A.M. and eventually covering some 23,000 roads.
        In 1936 Mrs. Pearsall printed  10,000 copies of her maps, selling them as indefatigably as she had compiled them. She persuaded a reluctant buyer at W. H. Smith, the British bookseller, to place an order for 250 copies, promising a refund if they went unsold.
        The maps were an instant success, and have sold countless millions of copies since, the favorite of visitors and Londoners alike, including the cab drivers and others whose job it is to make their way around the city.
        Phyllis Isobel Gross was born in 1906, the daughter of an Irish-Italian mother and a Hungarian mapmaker. She was sent to Roedean, a fashionable girls' boarding school, but was forced to leave at age 14 when her father went bankrupt and fled to the United States. When she returned home, she said once in an interview, the door was answered by the fully  decked-out Maharajah of Patiala, who was in the midst of having his portrait painted by Alfred Orr, Phyllis's mother's lover.
        ''Then mother said: 'Alfred has an artistic temperament and couldn't possibly have a little girl in the house. Get a live-in job,' '' Mrs. Pearsall related.
        So Phyllis moved to Paris, where she taught English, studied philosophy and Byzantine art, and made money by painting. When she was 21, she married a 38-year-old artist and moved to Spain. After eight years  she left him because, she said, ''he was always angry and frightened.'' The couple had no children.
        Returning to London and enlisting the help of her father's draftsman, Mrs. Pearsall founded the Geographer's A-Z Map Company and went to work. It wasn't easy, she said. ''I would go down one street, find three more and have no idea where I was.''
        In 1965 Mrs. Pearsall turned the company into a trust to protect it from hostile takeovers. She also set up a trustee company to hold all the shares for staff members, giving up pension and dividend rights for herself, but continuing as chairman and joint managing dirctor.
        Mrs. Pearsall suffered a stroke and fractured her spine and skull in a plane crash in the Netherlands in 1946, but she remained active until very late in life. She reported to work well into her 80's, arriving in a red Mercedes that she had been allowed to drive only since the age of 59, when she passed her driving test after more than 200 lessons.
        Her London map business grew to include maps of all sizes, maps of other British cities, and road atlases, but Mrs. Pearsall always said that her real love was painting. In 1986 the Royal Geographical Society held an exhibition of her drawings, paintings and etchings.
        Mrs. Pearsall wrote several books, including an account of her trips through Spain, a collection of short stories, a company history and a volume describing her business philosophy, in which she advocated generosity (''bonuses to everyone''), courtesy (''no aggressive selling'') and frugality (''Micawber housekeeping''). In 1986 she was made a Member of the British Empire.
        Asked once by an interviewer if the doyenne of maps still got lost, she replied, ''Always, dear.''
      