
        Rose Hamburger, who spent half a century as a real estate agent before eagerly coming out of a reluctant five-year retirement last December to start a new career -- as a racing handicapper for The New York Post -- died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 105.
        Her daughter Nancy Sureck said the cause was pneumonia.
        As a handicapper, Mrs. Hamburger, whose daily selections appeared with her photograph under a headline identifying her as Gamblin' Rose, brought a certain perspective to her work.
        A longtime resident of Baltimore who spent a good deal of time at the nearby Pimlico Race Course, she attended every Preakness Stakes from 1915 to 1988 and may have been the last person alive to have seen all 11 Triple Crown winners, from Sir Barton in 1919 to Affirmed in 1978, win a Triple Crown race.
        The daughter of a department store executive, Mrs. Hamburger, whose maiden name was Rosenbaum, was born in Manhattan on Dec. 29, 1890.
        A precocious student, she majored in mathematics and music at Normal College, the precursor of Hunter College. When she graduated in 1910 at age 19, Mrs. Hamburger, who was to become Hunter's oldest living graduate, was the youngest graduate in the college's history.
        Too young to obtain a teacher's license, she joined her father and uncle on a long trip to Germany, where she had an experience that would change her life.
        She not only was taken to her first horse race, she stumbled on an instinctive betting system.
        ''I saw this adorable jockey in a little green silk shirt,'' she explained recently, recalling that she bet the equivalent of $5 on the jockey's mount and came away with $25 in winnings.
        ''I was hooked,'' she said.
        Indeed, after her father was transferred to Baltimore in 1915, she began haunting Pimlico, becoming such a familiar and cherished figure that by the time of the 1920 Preakness she watched Man 'o War win from the owner's box.
        After her marriage in 1925 to Mark Hamburger, a member of a prominent clothing store family, she continued her interest in racing, but had to cut down a bit in 1938 when, at age 47, she became the first woman in Baltimore licensed to sell real estate.
        Mrs. Hamburger, who had an infectious personality that charmed both buyers and sellers, operated her own business, selling homes with enthusiastic concern for 37 years and becoming a well-known figure in Baltimore.
        Not that Mrs. Hamburger ignored the race track. As she later explained, she managed her schedule so that she could make almost daily visits to Pimlico.
        With her two daughters grown and living in New York, Mrs. Hamburger, by then a widow, was persuaded to move to Manhattan in 1975, but not to give up her career or her hobby.
        At the age of 85 she got a job as a rental agent for a Manhattan building and transferred her racing interest to Belmont and Aqueduct.
        Mrs. Hamburger, who loved her work almost as much as horse racing, was finally persuaded to retire five years ago, at the age of 100.
        This allowed her to concentrate full time on racing. A letter she wrote to The Daily Racing Form led to a wave of publicity about the 100-year-old horseplayer. She became even more famous when Aqueduct held a race in her honor on her 102d birthday.
        Widowed since 1955, Mrs. Hamburger never remarried but contented herself with flirtations, in her later years evincing a special interest in younger men, perhaps because in her later years that was virtually all there were.
        At a party at Aqueduct on her 102d birthday in 1992, a guest she introduced as ''my gentleman friend'' admitted that he had not seen Man o' War win the Preakness in 1920. ''I wasn't even born,'' he said.
        The fact that she began work for The Post on her 105th birthday and that she later appeared on ''Late Night With David Letterman'' and other television programs and gave many newspaper interviews might suggest she was employed more for her promotional value than for her expertise.
        To be sure, her editors graciously refrained from keeping tabs on the record of her daily picks, but Mrs. Hamburger, who took her work so seriously she would be plunged into despair during an inevitable slump, had her share of winners.
        Indeed, the woman who began her betting life taking a flyer on an adorable German jockey in 1910 ended her career with a flourish. Her last daily selection before she became ill 10 days ago came home a winner at Saratoga.
        In addition to her daughter Nancy, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Caryl Goldsmith of Manhattan, and three granddaughters.
      