
        Elizabeth Eyre de Lanux, an American artist, writer and designer of 1920's Art Deco furnishings whose works were rediscovered in the late 1980's, died on Sunday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 102.
        Mrs. de Lanux designed lacquered furniture and geometric patterned rugs that were produced in Paris in the 1920's. Her modernist furnishings were considered among the most sophisticated and were frequently exhibited with those of Eileen Gray and Jean-Michel Frank.
        The designs of Eyre de Lanux, the name she used professionally from the 1920's on, came to light in 1989 when two pieces she had designed were offered in the widely publicized New York auction of the Art Deco collection of Robin Symes, a London antiquities dealer.
        One of them, a lacquered table with a Cubist-inspired base from 1929, was reproduced in announcements of the sale, which included Mr. Symes's house, an 1860's carriage house that was modernized by Philip Johnson in 1949 for use as a guest house by the owners, Blanchette and John D. Rockefeller 3d.
        By 1989, Mrs. de Lanux's whereabouts were unknown in the design world. But her name was listed in the Manhattan telephone book, and despite her great age and infirmities -- she was legally blind -- she granted several interviews. The table ''was a joke,'' she said. ''I made it as a caricature of a Cubist sculpture.''
        Elizabeth Eyre was born in Johnstown, Pa., and studied painting at the Art Students League in Manhattan. In 1918, she married Pierre de Lanux, a French writer and diplomat, who was visiting New York. World War I had just ended, and they immediately moved to Paris. She studied with Brancusi in the early 1920's and became a designer, illustrator and writer. The couple moved in literary and art circles with Andre Gide, Hemingway, Matisse, Picasso and Bernard Berenson. She wrote about that world for Town & Country magazine in the 1920's. And, after she returned to the United States, she wrote in the 1960's for The New Yorker and Harper's Bazaar. Mr. de Lanux died in 1955.
        In her later years, Mrs. de Lanux continued as an interior decorator and as an illustrator of children's books, the last of which, ''Overheard in a Bubble Chamber,'' by Lillian Morrison, was published in 1981. Mrs. de Lanux lived alone until she moved in late July to the nursing home. She is survived by her daughter, Anne Strong of Shingle Springs, Calif., and two grandsons, Nicholas Eyre of Napa, Calif., and Paul Eyre of Honolulu.
      