
        Martha Phillips, a notable force in luxury fashion retailing for more than 60 years and an early supporter of many of today's leading designers, died on Saturday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98.
        Martha, as she was generally known (Miss Martha to her employees), was for many years a well-known front-row figure at major fashion shows in New York and Europe and a booster of, among others, Valentino, Halston, Geoffrey Beene, James Galanos, Pauline Trigere, Bill Blass, Oscar de la Renta and Zandra Rhodes at the beginning of their careers.
        Her customers at her elegant Park Avenue and Palm Beach salons were some of the world's richest and most socially prominent women, who often filled in checks that ended in three and four zeros.
        There were four Martha shops in the 1980's, when sales were said to be almost $40 million. A boutique in the Trump Tower closed after several years, and a bankruptcy filing in 1992, attributed to the economy, resulted in the shuttering of the Park Avenue salon and another in Bal Harbour, Fla. The Palm Beach shop, operated by Mrs. Phillips's daughter, Lynn Manulis, remains, and Mrs. Phillips went in almost daily until shortly before her death.
        ''There was never anybody like her and there won't be anyone like her,'' Ms. Trigere said yesterday. The designer, who did business with Mrs. Phillips for almost a half-century, added, ''She developed a special knowledge of who her customer was -- from the very first client, she knew what she was doing.''
        Mr. Beene described Mrs. Phillips as ''an icon to an audience of a more frivolous era of dressing -- steeped in vanity and femininity.''
        And Mr. de la Renta called it ''the end of a whole era'' and Mrs. Phillips ''the last of the great ladies of retailing with a true grasp of the luxury business and a tremendous sense of quality.''
        A small, meticulously groomed woman with carefully coiffed hair who wore signature David Webb jewelry, Mrs. Phillips did not hesitate to pop into fitting rooms as her customers tried on clothes. More often than not, she did not ask what they wanted but told them what they should have. More often than not, they listened. Although the salon had a workroom  for alterations, Mrs. Phillips also did not hesitate, on occasion, to get on her knees to pin a hem.
        There was never a time when she was not fascinated by fashion, Mrs. Phillips said in a 1983 interview on the 50th anniversary of her business. Born Martha Rollins in Brooklyn, where her father had a shop called the Star that specialized in hand-tailored clothes and riding clothes, she asked to help in the business one day when she was 8. Her father got a crate, placed it behind the counter and she stood there after school, selling lace blouses.
        ''People were so amused, they would buy,'' she recalled.
        At 18, she married Phillip R. Phillips, a manufacturer of ready-to-wear clothing and in the early 1930's she opened a shop on the 12th floor of a Madison Avenue building. Despite the Depression, she refused to buy anything for the shop that would sell for less than $100.
        ''I did very well,'' she said. Her customers included Marjorie Merriweather Post, who brought in her jewels to make certain that both the color and the neckline of the dress were appropriate for showing them off properly. Other clients were Doris Duke, Brooke Astor, Gloria Vanderbilt and Diana Ross.
        Mrs. Phillips remained there for 20 years, leaving only when the building was torn down. She then leased space in what was the Savoy Plaza Hotel on Fifth Avenue. After that building was sold to the General Motors Corporation, she balked at a shop she was offered downstairs in the plaza of the new building to be built on the site, saying, ''Martha's customers never shop in cellars.''
        Shortly after, she and her daughter, who joined her several years earlier, found a location at Park Avenue and 58th Street where in plush  surroundings she coddled her customers with tea and cookies while models paraded the clothes or saleswomen carried them out.
        Mr. Phillips died in 1981. Besides  her daughter, who lives in Palm Beach, Mrs. Phillips is survived by a son, Herbert R. Phillips, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Milton Rollins of Brooklyn, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        In an interview when she was in her mid-80's, Mrs. Phillips, who was chairwoman of her company -- her daughter was president -- said she had no intention of ever retiring.
        ''I like to think that what we're doing is being impresarios, finding talent,'' she said. ''I like the excitement.''
      