
        Brenda Forbes, a character actress who gave vital support onstage to Katharine Cornell, Alfred Lunt, Lynn Fontanne and other stars during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87.
        She died of cancer, said Erik A. Hanson, a friend.
        Miss Forbes, who began acting with the Old Vic in 1927, made her Broadway debut with Cornell in ''The Barretts of Wimpole Street'' in 1931. She played Wilson, Elizabeth Barrett's loyal maid, which became her signature role. She toured in the play and was in the 1945 revival.
        Even when her parts were small, Miss Forbes was always noticeable: an expert at accents, she created eccentric characters, many of them maids and nurses, and made them definably her own. As an Englishwoman transplanted to the United States, she was frequently called upon to act in plays by Shaw, Wilde and Noel Coward, but also played American roles.
        Miss Forbes was known for her work in comedy, in musicals as well as plays. In ''Three to Make Ready,'' one of three Nancy Hamilton revues that she did on Broadway, she spoofed women shopping for shoes, learning Russian and trying to explain Wagnerian opera. As a satirist, she was compared with Beatrice Lillie and Fanny Brice.
        Her career extended into the 1990's, with the movie ''The Jerky Boys'' in 1995. Her last Broadway appearance was in 1985 in ''Aren't We All?,'' a revival of the Frederick Lonsdale comedy starring Rex Harrison and Claudette Colbert. With characteristic panache, she played a clergyman's repressed wife.
        Born in London in 1909, Miss Forbes came from a theatrical family: her mother, Mary Forbes, was an actress and her brother Ralph Forbes was an actor. As a teen-ager, she left England to join her mother in Hollywood and did seven plays at the Vine Street Theater. Then Guthrie McClintic cast her in ''The Barretts of Wimpole Street,'' and also asked her to play Prossy in ''Candida'' and Lady Montague in ''Romeo and Juliet.''
        In ''Leading Lady,'' Tad Mosel's biography of Cornell, the author said that was McClintic's ''first brilliant, triple-threat piece of casting.''
        Miss Forbes followed with a long string of Broadway plays, including ''Pride and Prejudice,'' ''Storm Over Patsy,'' ''Heartbreak House,'' ''Ring Around the Moon'' and ''Quadrille'' (with the Lunts). She also acted in ''The Reluctant Debutante,'' ''The Loves of Cass McGuire'' (with Ruth Gordon) and ''The Constant Wife'' (with Ingrid Bergman). In 1976, she played Mrs. Higgins in the Broadway revival of ''My Fair Lady.''
        Her films included ''Mrs. Miniver,'' ''White Cliffs of Dover'' and ''This Above All.'' She also appeared in three television movies with Katharine Hepburn (''The Man Upstairs,'' ''Laura Lansing Slept Here'' and ''Mrs. Delafield Wants to Marry''). For many years, Miss Forbes divided her time between New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, where she acted at the Goodman Theater.
        For 39 years she was married to Merrill Shepard, a Chicago lawyer who died in 1986. She is survived by 10 nieces and nephews.
      