
        Julia Morton, a self-taught expert on the uses of medicinal and toxic plants and a ''Dear Abby'' for Floridians concerned about poisonous greenery, died on Tuesday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. She was 84 and lived in Homestead, Fla.
        Mrs. Morton had been critically injured in an automobile accident on Aug. 28, said officials at the University of Miami, where she was a professor for about four decades until retiring in 1993.
        To her colleagues in the field of economic botany, the study of how people use plants, Mrs. Morton was an academic's academic, a founder and developer of the Morton Collectanea, an invaluable compilation of information about plants, and the author of 10 books on the subject.
        But to the people of South Florida -- backyard gardeners, telephone line workers and ranchers, for example -- she offered practical advice, practically every day, on plants that can harm humans or animals. Through letters and phone calls, lectures and even posters that she designed for hospital emergency rooms, she worked to educate the public.
        ''She was the poison plant center'' in South Florida, said Lawrence Kaplan, an emeritus professor of botany at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and editor of the journal of the Society of Economic Botany, which Mrs. Morton helped found. Anyone who suspected contact with plants that might be dangerous could, and did, contact her.
        Her plant expertise extended far beyond the toxic variety. Several of her books are considered standard references in the field, including ''The Atlas of Medicinal Plants of Middle America'' (C.C. Thomas, 1981). She also had extensive knowledge of tropical fruits, which she also shared with anyone who asked.
        ''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.
        The letters would inquire about a particular plant, and Mrs. Morton would respond after doing the necessary research in her vast collection of reports, books and newspaper clippings or, often, just pulling the information out of her memory.
        Mrs. Morton, who was reared in Vermont, never got a college degree. She started the Morton Collectanea with her husband, Kendal, in 1933 from an office near the New York Public Library.
        The couple lived in the Bahamas during World War II, and their studies of the plant life there resulted in their first book, ''50 Tropical Fruits of Nassau'' (1949). The work attracted the attention of the president of the University of Miami, Bowman Foster Ashe, who offered them jobs as professors. Mr. Morton, a trained scientist, died in 1964.
        Dr. John Beutler, a researcher at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., said that unlike many botanists who only dabble in the study of how plants are used, Mrs. Morton devoted all of her time to the field.
        Dr. Beutler said he first encountered Mrs. Morton about two decades ago, when she sent him a plant that she thought might have some applications to cancer treatment. ''She was always on the lookout for obscure plants that might serve a useful purpose,'' he said.
        Mrs. Morton is survived by several nieces and nephews.
      