
        Agnes Mongan, the first woman to be a curator and then the first to be a director at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass., died on Sunday at a hospital in Cambridge. She was 91 and lived in Cambridge.
        Miss Mongan was one of the leading museum professionals of a generation that helped set the course of American museums in this century. With a dual interest in Old Master drawings and contemporary art, she was especially known for her connoisseurship, her meticulous research and her teaching abilities.
        She was born in Somerville, Mass., in 1905 and graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1927, having studied art history and English. In 1929, after graduate work at Smith College and a year of studying works of art firsthand in Europe, she accepted a position at the Fogg.
        Her first job was as a research assistant under Paul Sachs, associate director of the Fogg. In this role she absorbed his tenets while also forming close friendships with many of the Fogg's alumni, who included such museum directors and curators as Alred H. Barr Jr., James Rorimer, A. Everett Austin and Henry-Russell Hitchcock.
        With Sachs, Miss Mongan spent the 1930's cataloguing the Fogg's remarkable drawings collection. The results of their labors, ''Drawings in the Fogg Museum of Art,'' published in 1940, was the first comprehensive catalogue of a drawing collection in this country. A second cataloguing project, that of the enormous collection Grenville Winthrop bequeathed to the Fogg in 1943, expanded Miss Mongan's expertise into the 19th-century French drawings, especially the work of Ingres.
        Harvard finally lifted its policy banning female curators, and in 1947, after serving for several years as ''keeper of drawings,'' Miss Mongan was named curator. She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969. She retired in 1971.
        Miss Mongan is survived by her sister, Elizabeth, a former curator of prints at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, of Pigeon Cove, Mass.
      