
        Annabella, a film star with flashing eyes who became the toast of France in the 1930's, died on Wednesday at her home in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a suburb of Paris. She was 86.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Jose Sourillan, according to The Associated Press.
        Annabella, whose real name was Suzanne Georgette Charpentier, was the daughter of a French publisher. She rose to celebrity when she starred in two films directed by Rene Clair: ''Le Million'' (1931), about hunting for a lost lottery ticket, and ''Quatorze Juillet,'' or ''July 14th'' (1933), about the adventures of a flower girl and a cab driver. They are still widely regarded as her finest work.
        Her skill at playing the gamine became known in the United States, where The New York American commented in 1937: ''Among screen types she is like a fresh breeze among too many orchidaceous blooms. Her eyes are frank, her forehead high and her mouth childishly quizzical.''
        She moved on to Hollywood and starred in a down-to-earth role opposite Tyrone Power when he played the canal builder in ''Suez'' (1938). Later that year, when her plans to divorce the French actor Jean Murat drew wide attention, she was quoted in The New York Mirror as saying: ''It is not always good to be a film star in America. It is like being a goldfish in a bowl. They must know what I eat, what I think, they even want to know whom I love -- and that I tell no one.''
        In 1939 she married Power. She appeared in four other American films and in 1942 became an American citizen. But Annabella achieved only minor success in her adopted country. She returned to France for good after a divorce in 1948 from Power, who went on to marry the actress Linda Christian.
        Back in Europe, Annabella failed to regain her earlier acclaim. Her last film was ''Le Plus Bel Amour de Don Juan'' (1952).
        In her teens she started out as a dancer. She made her first screen appearance, at 16, under the name Annabella, in a minor role in the epic-length silent film ''Napoleon'' (1926), with Abel Gance as director and screenwriter. Other minor film parts followed, until she was chosen by Clair, regarded by the film world as an original stylist, for her roles in ''Le Million'' and ''Quatorze Juillet.''
        In 1936 she moved on to Britain, where she starred in three movies made there in 1937: ''Wings of the Morning,'' which was in color, ''Under the Red Robe'' and ''Dinner at the Ritz.''
        Then Hollywood beckoned, and she appeared in ''The Baroness and the Butler'' (1938) before taking the role in ''Suez.'' That year she also found time to star in ''Hotel du Nord,'' directed by Marcel Carne, a classic with a fond view of working-class Parisians.
        In 1940 Annabella and Power performed together in the Screen Guild radio production of ''Seventh Heaven,'' and the next year they were onstage together in a summer stock revival of Ferenc Molnar's hit ''Liliom.''
        Over the years she took other roles in theatrical productions in New York, London and elsewhere.  The New York Times theater critic Brooks Atkinson praised her acting in a 1946 production of Jean-Paul Sartre's play ''No Exit'' as ''a bold and calculated performance that packs one corner of hell with horror.''
        She is survived by a daughter, Anne Werner Power of Boston.
      