
        Dr. Lucy Frank Squire, a radiologist who became known as a medical educator, died on Sept. 15 at her home on the West Side of Manhattan. She was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her son, Gordon Squire of Williamstown, Mass.
        Dr. Squire retired in 1993 as Distinguished Service Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn. The center announced her death on Friday.
        Born in Washington, she received a bachelor's degree from George Washington University and a degree in 1940 from the Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, now the Medical College of Pennsylvania.
        At first, she was unable to decide whether she wanted to be a radiologist or a pathologist, so she chose to take her first year of residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, in Boston, since it offered six months of radiology and six months of pathology. But the director of the pathology department did not want a female resident, so Dr. Squire turned to radiology.
        After completing her residency in 1945 and having a practice in Syracuse, she joined the faculty of the University of Rochester and received a grant to write a radiology textbook for medical students. Her durable and widely used book, ''Fundamentals of Radiology,'' was published in 1964. Its fourth edition (Harvard, 1988), which she wrote with Dr. Robert A. Novelline, is expected to be supplanted by a fifth in 1997.
        In 1966, she began teaching part time at Massachusetts General Hospital and at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, now the State University of New York Science Center. From 1972 until her retirement, she was a professor of radiology at the center.
        In those years, she was the lead author of another durable work, a series of self-instructional texts for medical students, ''Exercises in Diagnostic Radiology'' (Saunders). She was also a co-author of ''Living Anatomy'' (Hanley & Belfus, 1987).
        She received awards from the Radiological Society of North America, the Association of University Radiologists and the Regional Conference on Women in Medicine. In 1987, she won the first Marie Curie Award from the American Association of Women Radiologists.
        Her marriage in 1937 to Charles F. Squire ended after a decade.
      