
        Sabina Zlatin, who rescued dozens of Jewish children from the Nazis during World War II, died on Saturday in a Paris hospital. She was 89.
        The Children's Home of Izieu, which she founded, helped more than 100 children elude capture by the occupying Germans before it became one of the more enduring and horrific symbols of Nazi barbarism.
        One spring morning in 1944, the Gestapo raided the home and plucked 44 Jewish children from their breakfast and trucked them to their eventual deaths in concentration camps.
        When Klaus Barbie, the wartime head of the German police in Lyons who ordered the raid on the home, went on trial in 1987, Mrs. Zlatin was among those who testified against him.
        ''Her death makes even more necessary our duty to remember,'' said Lionel Jospin, the French Socialist Party leader.
        Sabina Schwast was born to a Jewish family in Warsaw. She married a French agronomist named Miron Zlatin, settling with him on a farm in northern France and becoming a French citizen.
        When war broke out in 1939, the Zlatins left their farm and she became a nurse at a military hospital in Montpellier. The job was short-lived. Once it was discovered that she was Jewish, the collaborationist government dismissed her. Soon after, she was drawn to the work of the Children's Rescue Charity, which assisted children endangered by the war.
        In 1943, putting herself and her husband at grave risk, she decided to open a home to help these children. She chose as a refuge a farmhouse in Izieu, a quiet, tiny hilltop hamlet with a sweeping view of the Rhone River Valley and the snowy peaks of the Alps.
        In that idyllic setting, she gave Jewish children of all ages sanctuary while she arranged to shuttle them out of France to safety in Switzerland. She managed to smuggle some 100 children from the Izieu home over the Swiss border and beyond the grasp of the Gestapo before the day the trucks came.
        It was a neighboring farmer of German descent who betrayed the safe house. He had hired a teen-age boy from the children's home, somehow found out that the children were Jewish, then apparently passed the information to German troops garrisoned in a nearby town.
        On April 6, 1944, as the children were having breakfast, German trucks rolled up in front of the farmhouse. Mrs. Zlatin was away at the time, arranging for another batch of children to be smuggled to Switzerland. But 7 teachers and 44 children between the ages of 4 and 17 were arrested. Only an assistant to Mrs. Zlatin escaped, managing to squeeze through an upstairs window and hide in the garden.
        The rest, including Mrs. Zlatin's husband, were herded into the trucks. Witnesses told of the children being kicked and hurled into the trucks like sacks of potatoes.
        Mr. Barbie commanded his officers to transport the captives to deportation centers. As they rode along, jounced about in the back of the trucks, the 44 children sang a song declaring their defiance. They had learned it from their history lessons: ''Vous n'aurez pas l'Alsace et la Lorraine'' (You will not have Alsace and Lorraine).
        Mrs. Zlatin learned of the roundup via a telegram that said: ''Family ill. Contagious disease.'' Those were the code words that meant the worst: the Nazis had arrived at Izieu.
        At once, Mrs. Zlatin hurried to Vichy to beg for the lives of the children before the collaborationist French government. She was spurned. ''Why do you bother about those dirty Jews?'' a senior French official asked her.
        Five of the adults and 42 of the children died in gas chambers at Auschwitz. Mr. Zlatin and the two remaining children were executed by firing squad in Estonia. A single adult, a 25-year-old teacher, managed to survive.
        When Mr. Barbie went on trial for crimes against humanity in May 1987, Mrs. Zlatin, then 80, went to testify against his brutalities. The assistant who had escaped from the farmhouse the day of the Izieu raid testified that as he hid outside, he saw Mr. Barbie among the Germans.
        Mr. Barbie was convicted and later died in a French prison.
      