
        Ludmilla Chiriaeff, the founder of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens of Montreal and a major force in Canadian dance, died on Sunday at a hospital in Montreal. She was 72.
        She died of complications from a lung illness, said Catherine Luft Mead, a daughter.
        Mme. Chiriaeff developed a major company in a city that knew little about ballet before her arrival there in 1952. Her earliest efforts perplexed straitlaced audiences, and a clergyman once chastised her for showing her legs in public. Mme. Chiriaeff persevered, and, in addition to building a company, she became a pioneer of dance on Canadian television and a leader of Canadian dance education.
        Born in Riga, Latvia, of a Russian father and a Polish mother, Mme. Chiriaeff grew up in Berlin, where she received her first ballet lessons. She appeared with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, 1936-37, but was considered too young to remain on the company's arduous tours. She danced with the Berlin State Opera Ballet during World War II until Nazi doctors measuring her body decided that she must be Jewish (she was not) and sent her to a labor camp.
        After the war she danced with companies in Switzerland, then moved to Montreal with the aid of the International Rescue Committee. Les Ballets Chiriaeff, which she founded in 1952, originally functioned as an ensemble for television, dancing on so many shows that its dancers were nicknamed ''Chiriaeff's grasshoppers,'' perpetually hopping about on the screen.
        The group made its stage debut in 1955 and aroused such enthusiasm that Mme. Chiriaeff decided to transform it into a company for Canadian theaters. Renamed Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in 1958, it acquired an eclectic repertory and toured widely. In 1969, when he troupe danced Fernand Nault's ''Symphony of Psalms'' in a Montreal church, many local theatergoers decided that the city no longer found ballet to be morally suspect.
        The following year, Mr. Nault, a French-Canadian choreographer, made Les Grands Ballets Canadiens internationally famous with his staging of ''Tommy,'' the rock-opera by the Who.
        Mme. Chiriaeff founded l'Academie des Grands Ballets Canadiens in 1958 and l'Ecole Superieure de Danse in 1966, and relinquished the artistic direction of her company in 1974 to devote herself full-time to educational activities. Her many projects ranged from courses for students desiring professional careers to introductory ballet lessons for sixth graders.
        Among the honors received by Mme. Chiriaeff are the Governor General's Medal of the Order of Canada, the Governor General's Award for the Performing Arts, the Denise Pelletier Award for the Performing Arts and honorary doctorates from McGill University, the University of Montreal and the University of Quebec. She was named a Companion of the Order of Canada in 1984 and an Officer of the National Order of Quebec in 1985. The City of Montreal proclaimed her a ''Grande Montrealaise (Great Montrealer)'' in 1978, and the headquarters of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens is called La Maison de la Danse Ludmilla Chiriaeff in her honor.
        Mme. Chiriaeff was married twice; both marriages ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Mead, of New York City, she is survived by two other daughters, Anastasia Chiriaeff of Montreal, and Ludmilla Luft Ivanovic of Boston; two sons, Avde Chiriaeff and Gleb Chiriaeff, both of Montreal, and four granddaughters.
      