
        Kathleen Carlin, a social service executive who devoted her professional life to the proposition that men can learn to get along quite well without beating up their wives and girlfriends, died on Sept. 20 at a hospice near her home in Atlanta. She was 57 and had been a leading voice in the movement to stop violence against women.
        Colleagues said the cause was cancer.
        Ms. Carlin, a native of Maywood, Neb., who graduated from the University of Nebraska and received a master's in social work there, married right after college and began raising a family, first in Atlanta and later in Houston. She did not begin her career until the mid-1970's, when she and her family returned to Atlanta and settled there for good.
        But once she got started, taking a job in suburban Atlanta as director of Georgia's first shelter for battered women, Ms. Carlin became so outraged by what she viewed as society's indifference to the problem that she was soon in the forefront of national efforts to curb domestic violence.
        Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
        With a $5 million annual budget, the group seeks to effect change  across the spectrum of what Ms. Carlin described as a continuum of sanctioned abuse of women. In addition to running programs of intensive behavior modification for men with a history of abusing women and training instructors to operate similar programs across the country, the organization works to change the social norms of male supremacy and control that Ms. Carlin came to see as the underlying causes of abuse.
        Although the organization has shown some promise -- for example, winning contracts with the military and religious denominations to help them change their organizational cultures to take the issue seriously -- Ms. Carlin did not need to be reminded that her efforts were barely a beginning.
        After all, as she was quick to point out, an estimated 3 million to 4 million women suffer some degree of physical abuse at the hands of men each year, and surveys indicate that women in two-thirds of American marriages are battered at least once by their husbands.
        And Ms. Carlin, who saw physical violence as just one extreme measure men use to control women, had an answer for anyone who might suggest that in the vast majority of those marriages the violence was so rare as to be inconsequential. She would be ready with a case history to show that a single beating was often all it took for a man to establish domination.
        The case involved a woman whose husband beat her severely one Thanksgiving and never laid a hand on her after that -- because he did not have to. As Ms. Carlin recalled, after that all he had to do when his wife balked at bowing to his wishes was to say ''remember Thanksgiving,'' and the terrified wife would submit.
        Just as that wife had learned to conduct herself to avoid the serious consequences of displeasing her husband, Ms. Carlin felt that men would decide not to beat their wives at the exact moment that society came to regard domestic abuse as a serious criminal offense to be dealt with swiftly, surely and severely.
        And that, she argued, will never happen until society abandons the notion of across-the-board male domination that tends to justify violence against women in the first place. That may be a tall order, but Ms. Carlin was not one to shrink from a challenge. In 1990, for example, she joined a group of women who scaled Mount Kenya, and for all her frustrations in trying to reform an entire society, she knew how to have a good time.
        Indeed, her annual high-spirited Christmas parties made such an impression on her staff and friends that they provided an antidote of sorts to the grim ''remember Thanksgiving'' tag line of Ms. Carlin's anecdote of domestic abuse. Or, as those who vowed to continue her work might put it, ''remember Christmas.''
        Ms. Carlin is survived by her husband, John; two daughters, Suzanne Rianhard of San Francisco and Elizabeth Carlin of New York; her mother, Arlene Hough of Atlanta, and a sister, Janet Allen of Dallas.
      