
        Martha Entenmann, the matriarch of the family that turned a small Bay Shore, L.I., bakery into Entenmann's, one of the nation's largest and best-known baked-goods companies, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. She was 89 and lived in Islip.
        Mrs. Entenmann had suffered from a heart ailment in recent years and died of complications from a recent operation, her son, William 3d, said.
        For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
        When Entenmann's went public in 1976, the company's stock certificates bore the picture of Mrs. Entenmann, known as Mrs. E to hundreds of employees at the 14-acre Bay Shore plant where doughnuts, cakes, cookies and other baked goods were packed in white boxes with the blue-bannered Entenmann's label.
        Born in Hoboken, N.J., in 1906, the former Martha Schneider was a 19-year-old saleswoman in a Bay Shore bakery in 1925 when she married her boss, William Entenmann Jr., whose father had founded the business in Brooklyn in 1898. Their sons, Robert, Charles and William, all eventually joined the company, which prospered with home deliveries on Long Island despite depression and war.
        In the 1950's, after her husband's death, Mrs. Entenmann and her sons stopped making bread and rolls to concentrate on cakes, pies and pastries; ended home deliveries in favor of supermarket chains and grocery stores, and expanded from Long Island to Miami, Chicago and many other cities.
        In 1978, Entenmann's was sold to Warner-Lambert, the pharmaceutical company, for $233 million, and in 1982 to General Foods for $315 million. In 1985, General Foods was acquired by Philip Morris, and Entenmann's became part of Kraft Foods. Last year, Entenmann's and three other Kraft brands were bought by CPC International for $865 million.
        Mrs. Entenmann is survived by her three sons, Robert, of Riverhead, L.I., Charles, of Oak Beach, L.I., and William 3d, of Islip; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      