
        Guillermina Rico, a lemon peddler who bargained her way to wealth and power as the head of a political machine she forged from the ranks of Mexico City's itinerant vendors, died on Wednesday of a cerebral hemorrhage. She was 63.
        In the market stalls and side streets she was known as La Jefa, the boss, and at her death her office walls were adorned with photos of the curly-haired matriarch, often wearing a trademark white apron, with senators, mayors, police chiefs and every Mexican president since Jose Lopez Portillo took office in 1976.
        Today 2,000 people marched three miles from the city center to a weed-choked cemetery in a working class suburb, bearing Mrs. Rico's coffin to a plot wafting with the scent of lily and lavender and heaped with scores of wreaths. The trumpets of a mariachi sounded a dirge.
        ''I feel like an orphan,'' said Pablo Ibarra, a 45-year-old vendor who accompanied her coffin. ''She helped me, and many others, to earn an honest living on the streets.''
        In a 40-year career, Mrs. Rico led thousands of market peddlers through cycles of street war and peace with successive Mexico City mayors, who have repeatedly sought to clear the streets of the informal merchants who block sidewalks in front of tax-paying businesses. Sometimes the vendors have been removed to suburban markets, but always they have returned.
        The vendors, whose ranks swelled during years of economic crisis as farmers lost their land and factory workers were dismissed, hawk everything from tortillas to tires to pirated American music tapes. Today Mexico City's central market is among the largest outlets in the world for contraband.
        Mrs. Rico was born in 1934 in the downtown neighborhood of La Merced into a clan of street sellers. Both parents migrated to Mexico City during the Depression from outlying states. Guillermina's three brothers, Manuel, Fernando and Candido, also devoted their lives to street commerce, Roberto Hidalgo Lopez, one of Mrs. Rico's advisers said in a cemetery speech today.
        Both of Mrs. Rico's parents died when she was a teen-ager, and Mrs. Rico was forced to give up school after fourth grade, Mr. Hidalgo said.
        She began working the street at age 15, peddling lemons and avocados, and three years later, married another vendor: Salvador Sanchez Velazquez. They had four children.
        In 1946, Mrs. Rico joined the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, known as the PRI, and eventually she organized the vendors into a powerful bloc that cast thousands of ballots for the governing party.
        During the early years, Mrs. Rico's leadership was informal, but in 1965 she organized 500 merchants into the Civic Union of Street Vendors of Old Merced. Twenty years later, the union's ranks had swelled to 3,000, and by 1985 it stood at 7,000.
        Mrs. Rico gained the power to assign the choicest market stalls, for which she charged a quota, and those and other revenues made her wealthy. The Chamber of Commerce estimate in 1988 that Mrs. Rico and other union leaders collected about $1 million annually.
        She funneled vast sums into the pockets of city authorities, partly to forestall their periodic threats to remove the vendors. Some of her riches she channeled into social work, and she once responded to a reporter's question about what she had done for Mexico: ''Ask the priests in the downtown churches who is the one that helps them. Go to the shelters. Ask the drug addicts and the alcoholics undergoing rehabilitation.''
        She is survived by her brother Candido, her four children, Silvia, Margarita, Isabel, and Salvador, all of whom live in Mexico City, and 16 grandchildren, Mr. Hidalgo said.
      