
        Ljuba Welitsch, the flame-haired Bulgarian-born soprano whose career was highlighted by her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in ''Salome'' in 1949, died on Monday in a hospital in Vienna. Miss Welitsch, who had become an Austrian citizen, was 83.
        The cause of death was a series of strokes, said Herta Wiedenhuber, the executor of her estate.
        Miss Welitsch's performance in the title role of the Richard Strauss opera on Feb. 4, 1949, was regarded as one of the most memorable in Metropolitan Opera history. The packed house had turned out mainly to hear Fritz Reiner make his Met debut as a conductor, but by the time the performance ended, with at least 15 minutes of cheering and whistling from an ecstatic audience, Miss Welitsch had become an international star.
        ''Miss Welitsch is a musician and interpreter of flaming temperament, who has the part absolutely in her hand,'' Olin Downes wrote in his review in The New York Times the next day. ''She is an actress of individuality and power.''
        A few days later, Miss Welitsch dazzled the critics again, displaying her versatility in the title role of Verdi's ''Aida'' and prompting Howard Taubman of The Times to call her ''one of the few perfect singers to come to the Met in recent years.''
        But Miss Welitsch's extensive repertory and her determination to make up for the years on the international stage that she had lost during World War II shortened her operatic career. She drove her voice mercilessly, and by the mid-1950's, critics seemed to agree that her best singing was behind her.
        At the Met, she appeared in 63 performances between her debut and her final appearance, in the nonsinging role of the Duchesss of Krakenthorp in Donizetti's ''Fille du Regiment'' on Feb. 17, 1972.
        Besides Salome and Aida, her Metropolitan Opera roles included Donna Anna in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' the title role in Puccini's ''Tosca,'' Rosalinde in Johann Strauss's ''Fledermaus'' and Musetta in Puccini's ''Boheme.''
        But most of Miss Welitsch's career was spent in Europe, where she was coached by the composer when she made her Vienna Opera debut in a special performance of ''Salome'' that celebrated Richard Strauss's 80th birthday in 1944.
        Even when her career in grand opera faded, Miss Welitsch's love of performance kept her busy into the early 1980's in operetta, films, radio, television and on the stage.
        She was born in Borissovo, on the Black Sea in Bulgaria, on July 10, 1913. As a child, she liked to sing and play the violin. By her teens she was taking singing lessons, and at 19 entered the Academy of Music in Vienna.
        She began her professional career in 1936 with the Graz Opera Company, which played a 10-month season that enabled Miss Welitsch to build her repertory. From 1941 to 1943 she sang in Hamburg and from 1943 to 1946 in Munich. In 1943 she also joined the Vienna Opera, where she made her noteworthy debut in ''Salome'' the next year.
        When she made her English debut with the company in 1947, she dazzled audiences at Covent Garden, and by 1948 she had sung Salome more than 50 times and appeared in more than 40 other roles. That summer, while abroad, Edward Johnson, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, heard Miss Welitsch and engaged her to sing in New York the following year.
        In 1956, when she was 43, Miss Welitsch caused a stir in Vienna when she married Karl Schmalvogel, a 29-year-old traffic policeman who had assisted her after an accident a year earlier. They were divorced in 1969.
        Miss Welitsch left no immediate survivors.
      