
        Mary Ellen Jones, a biochemist whose studies of the components of DNA were part of the foundation of basic cancer research, died on Aug. 23 in Waltham, Mass. She was 73 and had lived in the Boston area for the past year.
        Dr. Jones, who was the first woman to head a department in the School of Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, died of cancer, her family said. She had been treated at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
        DNA molecules are the building blocks of life, and Dr. Jones's research helped uncover how cells make the building blocks of DNA. She studied enzymes involved in the synthesis of nucleotides, the links in the helical chain that is deoxyribonucleic acid.
        ''It was a positive line of investigation with the hope that some kind of cancer therapy would result,'' said Dr. Thomas Traut, a colleague at the university. Unlike normal cells, cancer cells are constantly dividing and thus need to make new DNA all the time. So cutting the supply of DNA components, the thinking went, could be one way to stop the cancer.
        Although the enzymes Dr. Jones studied eventually turned out not to hold promise for cancer therapy, several of them ''are still seen as limited targets for a few diseases,'' said Dr. Traut, an associate professor of biochemistry and biophysics. Beyond that, he said, Dr. Jones contributed immensely to a field in its formative stages.
        ''Forty years ago, people knew very little about this stuff,'' Dr. Traut said. Although the field expanded greatly in the 1970's, he said, Dr. Jones ''was at the front with a handful of other labs'' in the 1950's, when she did her first major research at the Massachusetts General Hospital.  That work involved the discovery of carbamyl phosphate, one compound in the sequence by which nucleotides are made.
        Dr. Jones was born in LaGrange Park, Ill., and earned a bachelor's degree in biochemistry from the University of Chicago in 1944. She did graduate work at Yale University, receiving a doctorate in 1951.
        After leaving Massachusetts General in 1957, she was a professor at Brandeis University until 1966. She became an associate professor at North Carolina that year, left in 1971 for a seven-year stint at the University of Southern California and then returned to North Carolina as chairwoman of the department of biochemistry and nutrition at the medical school.
        She resigned as chairwoman in 1989, but she remained active in research and teaching until her retirement last year. She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1984.
        Her marriage, to Paul L. Munson, ended in divorce. She is survived by a sister, Anna Mae Dufty, of Pueblo, Colo.; two brothers, George K. Jones, of West Roxbury, Mass., and Elmer E. Jones, of Weston, Mass.; a daughter, Catherine L. Munson, of Fort Mill, S.C.; a son, Ethan V. Munson, of Milwaukee, and one grandchild.
      