
        Dr. Francesca Morosani Thompson, a prominent orthopedic surgeon at Roosevelt  Hospital who chronicled her struggle against cancer of the bone marrow in a book, "Going for the Cure," died on Thursday at New York Hospital. A resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, she was 51.
        She was a partner in Orthopaedic Associates of New York. Besides serving as an attending physician at Roosevelt, she was the chief of the Adult Orthopaedic  Foot Clinic of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center; a co-director of the Combined Foot and Ankle Fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery, and a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics at Columbia University's College of  Physicians and Surgeons.
        Dr. Thompson was born in Litchfield, Conn., and graduated from Smith College in 1965. She took up her medical training after the birth of her two children and graduated from Cornell University Medical College in 1977. She was vice president of the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society and a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery.
        Her cancer of the bone marrow was diagnosed in 1987, when she became the first victim of multiple myeloma to undergo an autologous bone-marrow transplant. In that procedure, the patient's own bone marrow is withdrawn for radiation treatment and chemotherapy and put back into the body.
        Her book, written for patients and their families, was published by St. Martin's Press in 1989. She donated the proceeds to a foundation she created for the purpose, the Cure Myeloma Fund. The International Myeloma Foundation, which supports research into the disease, issued a paperback reprint in 1993, and a Braille version remains in print as well.
        Dr. Thompson is survived by her husband, James E.; a daughter, Heather R. Cavalli of Miami; a son, James E., also of Manhattan; her mother, Virginia W. Morosani of Litchfield; two sisters, Virginia Smith of Mill Neck, L.I., and Roopa Morosani of Menlo Park, Calif., and three brothers, George Morosani of Ashville, N.C., Reto Morosani of Litchfield and John Morosani of Manhattan.
      