
        Janice A. Burns, a writer and speaker on AIDS who sought to awaken and educate a wider audience, especially young people, to its realities, died of the disease on Sept. 28 at St. John's Hospital in Yonkers.
        Mrs. Burns was 33 and a Yonkers resident, said Melinda Mullin, her associate and press agent.
        Mrs. Burns was the author of ''Sarah's Song,'' the story of her life with her husband and former childhood sweetheart, William Burns, and their struggle to accept and live with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Mr. Burns died of AIDS in 1994.
        Critics described the book, which was named for the child the Burnses never had, as both poetic and brutally specific, full of pain and anger, a plea for understanding and an exhortation to live life, come what may. The author contracted the virus from her husband, who had become infected during an earlier relationship.
        ''Sarah's Song,'' published by Warner Books last year, had a hard-cover printing of 30,000 copies. The book came out in paperback on Oct. 1, with a printing of 50,000 copies.
        Mrs. Burns, whose maiden name was O'Reilly, was born in the Bronx and graduated from Trinity College in Washington. She earned a master's degree in psychology at New York University and worked as a researcher in the Department of Psychiatry at New York University Medical Center until her illness forced her to retire in 1992.
        She played an active role in various organizations concerned with AIDS and last March delivered the keynote speech at the Westchester County Women's Annual Hall of Fame event. Since 1990 she had also pursued a mission she considered vital: speaking to thousands of high school students about her experience on behalf of Community Services in Westchester, an AIDS-related organization.
        She is survived by her parents, Joan and John O'Reilly of Fishkill, N.Y.; two sisters, Dolores Rezendes of Duxbury, Mass., and Maureen Stano of Kansas City, Mo., and a brother, Steve O'Reilly of Brookfield, Conn.
      