
        Mimi Coleman Thompson, an officer and past board chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of New York City, who also had long associations with Hofstra University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died on Wednesday at her home in Old Brookville, L.I. She was 69.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Thompson, a member of one of New York's most historically prominent families, was a highly visible presence in philanthropy and community service for much of her life, both on Long Island and in New York City.
        She was a founder, in 1987, fund-raiser and most recently vice president of the American Skin Association, with its headquarters in New York City. The organization supports research in dermatology and skin disorders and their cure.
        Mrs. Thompson first worked as a volunteer for the American Red Cross in the 1950's, organizing blood donation campaigns.
        In the 1960's, she was an officer and board member of what is now the Five Towns Community Center of Lawrence, L.I., a gathering place for underprivileged children. She also served as a trustee of the Lawrence Country Day School in Hewlett Bay Park, L.I. -- before its merger with Woodmere Academy -- and raised the money for a new gymnasium, whose construction she guided.
        She then was vice chairwoman of the trustees of Hofstra. She was a force in the establishment of its law school and in making Hofstra one of the first universities in the state to be fully accessible to the handicapped.
        At the medical center, she was, among other things, co-chairwoman for 14 years of the Visitors Day program, which informs the public of important medical advances.
        She began her work for Planned Parenthood as a fund-raiser in the 1980's, serving as chairwoman from 1983 to 1987. At her death, she was the head of a committee concerned with the training of clinicians.
        She was born Louise Stuyvesant Wainwright, a direct descendant of Peter Stuyvesant, the Dutch Governor who surrendered New Amsterdam to the British. For 36 years, she was married to Charles Payson Coleman, who was managing law parter of Davis Polk & Wardwell at his death in 1982.
        She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      