
        Laura La Plante, an early screen star who made the transition from silent screams to audible sobs and songs, died on Monday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 92.
        In a career in which she appeared in some 75 films, many in the silent era, Miss La Plante was cast primarily as a comedian but demonstrated considerable dramatic range.
        If a villain needed a heroine to tie to the railroad tracks in the face of an onrushing train, for example, Miss La Plante could be counted on to wriggle and squirm convincingly until the hero rescued her in the nick of time.
        Perhaps her most famous role was as the heroine in the 1927 silent classic, ''The Cat and the Canary,'' still studied as the progenitor of the English manor house movie thriller, in this case with flashes of comedy.
        She also became something of a footnote to Hollywood history as the first woman to sing on screen when she was actually heard singing and sobbing in the original film version of ''Show Boat,'' in 1929.
        The daughter of a Missouri farmer with an ear for alliteration, Miss La Plante, who was born on a farm outside St. Louis, really was given that unlikely name at birth, almost. The original version of La Plante, her son explained yesterday, had no ''e'' at the end, but she added one, without prompting by studio executives, after friends pointed out it needed a proper feminine French ending to go with the ''La.''
        At a time when movie acting was not regarded as entirely respectable, Miss La Plante, who came to Hollywood with her schoolteacher mother after her parents' divorce, got her first job on a lark, winning a role as an extra at the age of 15.
        Within two years, she had won a contract from Universal and was well on her way to becoming one of the most famous women in America, appearing first in Hoot Gibson westerns and the like and then in leading roles opposite Reginald Denny, especially after the director William Seitzer persuaded her to bob and bleach her long brown hair.
        She and Mr. Seitzer were married in 1926 and divorced in 1932, three months before Miss La Plante, who had been making a movie in London, married Irving Asher, a producer who had been running the Warner Brothers studio in London.
        For all the bride's movie star fame, the couple were upstaged at their wedding by their official witness, Mr. Asher's pal, the former New York City Mayor, James J. Walker.
        The next year, while Miss La Plante was staying at Mr. Walker's thatched-roof cottage in Surrey, the house burned to the ground, destroying all the papers and documents he had accumulated during his two years in office before resigning under a cloud in 1932.
        Although there were some sniggling suggestions that the papers, at least, had been deliberately torched to hide evidence of the former Mayor's suspected corruption, Miss La Plante's son insisted that the fire had been entirely accidental. Indeed, he said, when his mother, who was ill in bed at the time and eventually had to be carried to safety out a window, was told by a maid that ''the thatch is alight, Mum,'' she shrugged off the news, thinking merely that a cozy fire had been started in the fireplace.
        Miss La Plante largely retired from the screen after her marriage, making only a few movies after that while becoming a somewhat offbeat Hollywood hostess.
        When friends like William Holden or Hal Wallis came to dine, Mr. Asher inevitably did the cooking, while Miss La Plante, who had learned the art in London from Somerset Maugham's wife, Syrie, wowed the guests with her stunning flower arrangements.
        Miss La Plante, whose husband died in 1985, is survived by a daughter, Jill Murray of Mill Valley, Calif.; a son, Tony Asher of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
        Correction:  October 22, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary of the actress Laura La Plante on Thursday misspelled the surname of her first husband. He was William Seiter.
      