
        Magda Trocme, a French parson's wife who opened her door to a single shivering refugee in 1940 and helped inspire a movement that saved thousands of Jews and others from the Nazis in World War II, died on Oct. 10 a hospital in Paris. She was 94 and lived in Paris.
        Although she was a heroine to Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust Martyrs and Heroes Memorial Authority, to her dying day Mrs. Trocme could not comprehend a world that regarded it as in any way remarkable that she, her husband, and thousands of other residents of the village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in the plateau region of southern France had risked their lives to feed, clothe, hide and protect those who would have died without their help.
        But then Mrs. Trocme was an anomaly, a free-thinking woman whose life was dedicated to the curious principle that just as food is the answer to hunger the only rational antidote to violence is nonviolence.
        Mrs. Trocme owed her own prominence in the rescue movement in part to the fact that her husband, Andre Trocme, was the charismatic pacifist pastor of the French Reformed Church in Chambon, a founder of the Cevenol boarding school there and a recognized leader of the rescue effort, which has been credited with saving some 5,000 refugees, about 3,500 of them Jewish, many of them children.
        But as scores of refugees who came to her own door discovered, Mrs. Trocme was more than her husband's shadow; she was a highly organized, tireless and practical woman who knew how to find food when there was no food and just which door to knock on to find room and welcome for those her own overburdened household could not accommodate.
        The almost unanimous support the rescue movement enjoyed in the area around Chambon is generally attributed to the mostly Protestant peasant population's identification with the victims of persecution.
        But neither her husband nor Mrs. Trocme were natives of the region. Mrs. Trocme, whose paternal grandfather was a refugee from Czarist Russia and whose father was an engineer who had been a colonel in the Italian cavalry, was born in Florence, where she had an unconventional reaction to a conventional Catholic upbringing. While a convent student, she rejected the Church and embraced Protestantism.
        While studying on a scholarship at the old School of Social Work in New York in 1925, she met Mr. Trocme, a  Protestant from northern France who was studying at the Union Theological Seminary. They were married in 1926.
        After his ordination, Mr. Trocme, who was something of a free-thinker himself (he had renounced violence and become a conscientious objector in World War I) was regarded as so much of a rebel in the French Protestant church that he was sent in 1934 to Chambon in southern France, a region with a long history of tolerance since the days it had become a refuge for Huguenots fleeing the purges of Catholic France.
        Like her husband, Mrs. Trocme, who taught Italian at the Cevenol school, was a thoroughgoing pacifist. But many of the villagers and farmers of the region were not. Under the rule of the collaborationist Vichy Government and the later German occupation many of them took part in the Resistance activities that were common throughout France, but what set the Chambon area apart was its role as a place of refuge.
        Although her open-hearted welcome to the Jewish woman who knocked on her door one snowy night in 1940 has been considered the beginning of the Chambon movement, Mrs. Trocme's daughter, Nelly Hewitt of Minneapolis, stressed yesterday that in an area where secrecy was a way of life and virtually every home eventually harbored one or more refugees, it is impossible to know whether her mother had been the first.
        Mrs. Trocme's initial effort almost backfired, her daughter recalled, when she placed her visitor's soaked shoes next to the hearth to dry and they caught fire.
        After the war, Mr. Trocme became the European secretary for the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an American-based pacifist group, and during the 1950's he and his wife made fund-raising tours of the United States. He later became pastor of a church in Geneva, and after his death in 1971, Mrs. Trocme retired to Paris.
        There she wondered at the attention her efforts had received over the years, including a 1989 book by Philip P. Hallie, ''Lest Innocent Blood Be Shed,'' and a television documentary, ''Weapons of the Spirit.''
        To her mind, at least, she had done nothing more than provide the obvious help to those in obvious need. She no more understood the fuss over her efforts to rescue Jews than the consternation she caused her neighbors  when policemen came to arrest her husband (he was later released) and she served them dinner.
        ''I don't understand,'' she said. ''It was dinner time.''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Trocme is survived by a son, Jacques, of Paris, 10 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 9, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Magda Trocme, a Frenchwoman who helped shield Jewish refugees from the Nazis in World War II, misspelled the name of her daughter and misstated the daughter's hometown. She is Nelly Hewett, not Hewitt, of St. Paul, not Minneapolis.
      