
        Edith Tilton Penrose, an American-born British economist who was an authority on corporate growth and on oil, died on Oct. 11 in Waterbeach -- near Cambridge, England -- where she lived. She was 81.
        Her death was reported on Saturday by The Guardian and The Independent.
        Dr. Penrose, whose doctorate was from Johns Hopkins University, retired in 1978 as a professor at the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, where she concurrently headed the school's economics department. In later years she was a professor and a dean at the Institut Europeen d'Administration des Affaires in Fontainebleau, France.
        Her best-known book is ''The Theory of the Growth of the Firm'' (1959, Oxford), about the ways companies grow and the reasons why they do. Jay B. Barney, a professor of management at Ohio State University, writing in a management journal last year, called it a seminal work about ''the competitive implications of a firm's internal strengths and weaknesses.''
        A Scottish economist, Sir Alec Cairncross, recalled in The Independent on Saturday, that the book brought Dr. Penrose ''instant recognition as a creative thinker, and its importance to the analysis of the job of management has been increasingly realized.''
        In theorizing about companies, Dr. Penrose held that, as The Guardian  put it: ''There are important administrative restraints on the speed of the firm's growth. Human resources required for the management of change are tied to the individual firm and so are internally scarce. Expansion requires the recruitment of more such resources. New recruits cannot become fully effective overnight. The growth process is, therefore, dynamically constrained.''
        Dr. Penrose's interest in oil originated in the late 1950's, when she was a visiting professor at the University of Baghdad. In a 1976 interview, she recalled: ''I was doing a book on multinational corporations, although nobody called them that in those days. Being in Iraq, it would have been rather silly not to concentrate on oil, wouldn't it?''
        That book, ''The Large International Firm in Developing Countries: The International Petroleum Industry,'' was published in 1968, and by 1976 she was considered one of the top oil economists in the world.
        In the 1976 interview, she said: ''Historically, the international oil companies often have wielded their vast power selfishly, although their accomplishments have often been beneficial to the world.'' By that time, oil executives had often been less than pleased with conclusions expressed in her writings, but she contended: ''I don't take sides. I just gather the facts and if people don't like my work, they just don't like the facts.''
        Edith Tilton was born in Los Angeles and received a bachelor's degree in 1936 from the University of California at Berkeley. After working for the American Embassy in London, she received her doctorate in 1950. Her first book, ''Economics of the International Patent System,'' was published in 1951.
        Dr. Penrose was a lecturer and research associate at Johns Hopkins for many years. Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.'' Then the couple moved to Britain.
        Dr. Penrose married David Burton Denhardt in 1934; he died in 1938. She married Mr. Penrose in 1944; he died in 1984. Her survivors include three sons.
      