
        Julia Waldbaum, an effervescent personification of motherly concern, homey wisdom and business savvy who helped build a supermarket chain from a butter and egg store in Brooklyn, died in her sleep on Monday as her son held her hand in her apartment in Floral Park, Queens.
        Mrs. Waldbaum, 99, who would have turned 100 on July 4, had been a longtime resident of the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
        Late in life, even after nearly all her family's stock in the Waldbaum's supermarkets was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in 1986, Mrs. Waldbaum  liked to keep an eye on the stores.
        In the 1960's, her picture appeared on almost all of the 400 food products sold under the Waldbaum's label, along with recipes she had tested in her own kitchen.
        ''They left me off the dog food and the bathroom tissue,'' she observed one day as she made one of her regular surprise inspections as self-appointed watchdog of the chain.
        In a store on Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn, Mrs. Waldbaum, who was also the secretary of the company, told a produce clerk to discard a bruised grapefruit, or put it in with the reduced-price merchandise. She checked at the meat counter to see if anyone had poked through the plastic meat wrappers. ''When that happens, I have it rewrapped,'' she said.
        She told how she grew upset when she saw long lines at the checkout counters and not enough checkers, and how she became angry when clerks forgot to say ''thank you'' to customers.
        As she continued her tour, one of 30 she made each month, she brushed dust off cans of kidney beans and straightened an untidy display of marshmallows.
        ''I'm really not too fussy about messy shelves, though,'' she said. ''That means we're selling.''
        By the early 1980's, the chain was grossing $1.376 billion at 140 supermarkets in New York, Connecticut and Massachusetts. There was never a Manhattan store, she said. ''Manhattan has too many single people, rents are too high and there's no space for parking lots.''
        Julia Leffel, the daughter of Harry and Anna Leffel, was born in Manhattan and reared in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. She was 12 when she met Israel Waldbaum. Known as Izzy, he was an immigrant from Austria selling butter and eggs in a little store established in 1904 at 911 DeKalb Avenue.
        According to family legend, one day during World War I, Anna Leffel asked Izzy Waldbaum if he could get her some sugar, which was in short supply. Mr. Waldbaum found a 50-pound sack and offered to deliver it personally to her home. When he did, he encountered Julia. He realized that she was the girl who came to his store every day to buy milk, which she carried home in a pail.
        In time, Izzy Waldbaum asked to carry the pail home for her. That was their courtship. When he was 28 and she was 21, they married, and Julia went to work in the store.
        ''People used to stand three abreast to get into that store,'' she said with a faraway look in her eyes as she reminisced in 1967, 20 years after she was widowed and left with three children.
        By the time Mr. Waldbaum died at age 55, the chain consisted of seven stores. When a store ran short of a product, Mrs. Waldbaum, the first woman in her family to have a driver's license, would put her children in the car, drive to a store with a surplus of the product and take some to the needy supermarket.
        For years, much to the consternation of her family, she refused to have her telephone number unlisted. ''I like to have the customers call me, because a lot of them think Julia Waldbaum is an imaginary person like Betty Crocker,'' she said.
        Away from the supermarkets, Mrs. Waldbaum was devoted to opera and the theater and was a benefactor of many charities.
        She is survived by a daughter, Shirley Waldbaum Witkin of Glen Cove, L.I.; a son, Ira Waldbaum of Old Westbury, L.I.; a sister, Sylvia Goldman of Riverdale, the Bronx; a brother, Alfred Leffel of Syosset, L.I., 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      