
        Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin. She was 89.
        Mrs. Farkas, who lived in Palm Beach, Fla., had been staying with Mr. Farkas and his wife, Carol, a nurse, in Manhattan since her release two weeks ago from the New York University Medical Center, where she had been treated for a heart ailment.
        Despite the uproar that surrounded Mrs. Farkas's appointment and a delay in her Senate confirmation, her posting caused little stir in the tiny grand duchy of Luxembourg, which was accustomed to Americans whose path to ambassadorships was paved with political contributions.
        Although Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas cast his Foreign Relations committee vote against her and denounced her appointment as demeaning the Foreign Service, Senator Gale W. McGee of Wyoming said he was satisfied that Mrs. Farkas was innocent of any impropriety and laughed about the custom of making envoys of people who make generous campaign contributions.
        ''The money -- that's par for the course,'' he said. ''It used to be a cheaper price -- but that's Nixon inflation.''
        In contrast to Ambassador Perle Mesta, the Washington socialite who arrived in Luxembourg in 1949 with flamboyant ways and gala parties that inspired the Broadway musical ''Call Me Madam,'' Mrs. Farkas, who held a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University and a doctorate in education from New York University, maintained a low profile.
        Reserved by nature and press-shy because of the uproar that surrounded her appointment, she was more at ease as the sponsor of forums on the drug problems of teen-agers than in being a second coming of a woman known as the hostess with the mostest.
        Not until two years after Mrs. Farkas arrived did she make her first splash in the social life of Luxembourg, with a charity gala that featured the singer Sacha Distel and a United States Army orchestra. The event took in $28,000 for a school for handicapped children.
        She maintained close ties with the Government, gave quiet and unpretentious parties and, unlike many envoys, avoided making political statements about United States policy. Most diplomatic work was carried out by her six-member staff, and in the Luxembourg diplomatic community, which then included 13 other ambassadors, Mrs. Farkas, though serious, was not considered a heavyweight.
        President Gerald R. Ford accepted her resignation in 1976 and replaced her with Rosemary L. Ginn, a longtime Republican national committeewoman from Missouri.
        Mrs. Farkas settled in Florida and resumed her many philanthropic and humanitarian activities and research into male and female roles through the Role Foundation, which she established in 1967.
        Ruth Lewis, one of five children of Samuel Lewis and the former Jennie Bach, was born in Manhattan in 1906. Both her parents were in the real estate business and each influenced her. ''Community living and sharing, that was my mother; intellectual pursuits, that was my father,'' Mrs. Farkas once said.
        Accompanying her mother into tenements taught her about poverty, and Mrs. Farkas never forgot her mother's advice: ''No matter what your station in life, no matter what you grow up to be, always try to  contribute to those less fortunate than you.''
        She met George Farkas when she was 10. Their families lived in the same apartment house, at 107th Street and Fifth Avenue, where George, whose father had died, kept a close eye on his little sister, who was Ruth Lewis's best friend.
        ''I didn't like him at first because he was such a boss,'' she said.
        They were married in 1928, but not until she graduated from New York University. She received a master's degree from Columbia in 1932 and  was for many years a member of the executive committee of Alexander's.
        Mr. Farkas died in 1980.
        In addition to Robin, Mrs. Farkas is survived by three other sons, Alexander of Highland Park, Fla., and  Bruce and Jonathan, of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      