
        Fritz and Ingeborg Kahlenberg, exiled Germans who met during World War II as members of Hidden Camera, a Dutch Resistance group that documented the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, died this month at New York University Hospital within two weeks of each other.
        The Kahlenbergs, who established Film Authors, a New York film production company after they immigrated to the United States in 1946, lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kahlenberg, 80, died on Oct. 15; Mrs. Kahlenberg, 76, died on Oct. 2.
        The couple's daughter, Liz Kahlenberg Bordow, said her mother had died of lung cancer and her father of complications of kidney failure.
        Working secretly, the Hidden Camera photographers, led by Mr. Kahlenberg, hoarded rationed film, snapped pictures with cameras concealed in coats or handbags, developed the photographs and, in some cases, tried to smuggle them out of the country.
        Under the title ''The Illegal Camera: Photography in the Netherlands During the German Occupation, 1940-1945,'' an exhibition of 75 photographs taken by members of the Hidden Camera opened in August at the Jewish Museum, at Fifth Avenue and 92d Street, where it is to run until Dec. 1.
        In addition to the persecution of the Jews, the photographs at the museum cover warfare and occupation, confiscation of goods, compulsory labor, resistance, the ''Hunger Winter'' of 1944-45 when starvation was rampant, and liberation.
        One of the most widely known of the Hidden Camera photographs, taken by Cas Oorthuys and included by Edward Steichen in his collection ''The Family of Man,'' studies the face of a sunken-eyed woman gnawing on a crust of bread.
        ''The pictures are painful to look at,'' Sarah Boxer wrote in her review in The New York Times.
        Henry Kol, the Dutch consul for press and cultural affairs in New York, credited photographs taken by Hidden Camera with providing evidence that enabled the Dutch Government in exile to persuade the Red Cross to arrange food drops.
        Mrs. Kahlenberg, who was taught by her husband to operate a camera, was also involved in resistance communications, transporting munitions and the use of forged documents.
        Mr. Kahlenberg, who was born in Berlin, where his father was a founder of the U.F.A. film studio, settled in Amsterdam after Hitler came to power and was a film distributor when World War II began.
        Mrs. Kahlenberg, whose maiden name was Wallheimer, was born in Bremen and moved to Amsterdam with her family in 1939.
        The couple, cited by the Supreme Allied Commander, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, for their resistance activities, were married in 1946 and settled in New York.
        For a time, Mr. Kahlenberg was a producer with Telenews, which provided newsreels to movie theaters. In the 1950's, the Kahlenbergs founded Film Authors, a production company.
        They produced a wide variety of documentary and travel films for such clients as Pan American Airways, the Icelandic and Scandinavian Travel Bureaus, Holland America Lines and Bermuda. David Frost, Ernie Kovacs and Jonathan Winters were among the narrators.
        In addition to their daughter, of Berkeley, Calif., they are survived by  a grandchild.
        Mr. Kahlenberg is also survived by a brother, Hans Kahlenberg of Chiddingfold, England. Mrs. Kahlenberg is survived by a brother, Gunthur Wallheimer, and a sister, Helga Ekker, both of Amsterdam.
      