
        Constance Woodruff, who was active in labor and women's issues and was a Democratic Party stalwart, died on Saturday at St. Michael's Medical Center in Newark. She was 74 and lived in West Orange, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plainfield, N.J., for which Mrs. Woodruff wrote political commentary until her illness was diagnosed in the spring.
        Mrs. Woodruff was a Democratic National Committeewoman for two terms. She was co-chairwoman of the New Jersey delegation at the 1976 National Democratic Convention.
        Six governors, starting with Gov. Richard J. Hughes in the 60's, named her to state commissions. In 1975, Gov. Brendan T. Byrne appointed her the first chairwoman of the State Advisory Commission on the Status of Women despite objections to her strong partisan identification as the secretary of the State Democratic Committee.
        She was the chairwoman of the commission for 16 years, traveling the state to foster similar bodies at the county level. She was twice elected to lead the national umbrella Association of Commissions on Women, of which she eventually became president emeritus. The national group advises state organizations, like the New Jersey Division on Women, on issues deemed important to women.
        She was born in Newark, and was city editor of the Herald-News of Newark, a black-oriented weekly.
        Later, during two decades with the International Ladies Garment Workers, she directed community relations for the union's eastern region.
        Along the way, she graduated from Empire State College and got a master's in labor studies from Rutgers University.
        She was an adjunct professor of labor studies at Rutgers-Newark and spent her last 10 years in education as director of public relations and development for Essex County College.
        Mrs. Woodruff is survived by a sister, Gwendolyn Williams of Petersburg, Va., and a brother, Leon Rochester of East Orange. Her husband of 42 years, Bill Woodruff, died in April.
      