
        Charlotte H. Dinger, a New Jersey housewife who a paid a chance visit to a Philadelphia antiques shop in 1972 and walked out with the foundation of an unlikely collection and an even less likely career, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Morristown, N.J. She was 66, and known as the nation's leading collector and foremost authority on antique carved horses and other carousel art.
        Her husband, Carl W. Dinger Jr., said the cause was a heart attack.
        To hear her tell it in later years, Mrs. Dinger had two transforming experiences in her life.
        The first occurred during a childhood visit to the old Olympic Park in Maplewood, N.J., where she became so enchanted with the flamboyantly beautiful wooden horses whirling around the amusement park's carousel that she promptly announced she wanted one of her own.
        The second came on the 1972 visit to the antiques store, where she encountered an old and faded carousel horse that for all its obvious neglect and disrepair evoked such a powerful nostalgic recollection of her bright childhood fascination that she paid $75 for it on the spot.
        By the time she got it home and began stripping away the successive layers of thick paint that had obscured the delicate carved features underneath, her old childhood fascination was well on the way to becoming a full-blown adult obsession.
        Fired by her initial purchase, Mrs. Dinger soon tracked down what she recognized as a treasure trove of two dozen carousel horses stacked like so much cordwood in a Philadelphia warehouse. Their next stop was the Dinger garage.
        (It's a safe bet that there aren't many such warehouse troves left. By the time Mrs. Dinger was in full swing, figures stripped from the thousands of carousels that operated  at the turn of the century were recognized as valuable examples of a neglected art.)
        Her husband, only mildly irritated at the loss of space for the family cars, could hardly complain. He, too, was a collector, but then again his collection of baseball cards did not require repeated additions to the couple's Morristown home.
        Over the next two decades Mrs. Dinger tracked down, bought and restored scores of horses and other carousel figures. She became familiar with the history of the American carousel, from its beginnings in 1867 with the work of a German immigrant, Gustav Dentzel, to its decline after the introduction of the automobile and its abrupt demise in the Depression.
        She became an expert in the subtle distinctions of the work of such carousel masters as Charles Loof (known for friendly, smiling steeds) and Sol Stein and Harry Goldstein (the Central Park Carousel).
        She helped found the American Carousel Society to spread the word among other collectors and carousel lovers. She started her own publishing company to produce a definitive coffee table book, ''Art of the Carousel.''
        When her collection threatened to outstrip the capacity of her home, she put together a traveling exhibition that was displayed at museums across the country.
        As other collectors, recognizing that antique carousel figures were not merely curiosities or so much junk but examples of an important American folk art, bid up the prices of choice specimens to astronomical levels (as much as $175,000), she became a consultant to Sotheby's.
        And finally, concerned about the wear and tear of constant travel on her own increasingly valuable figures, she established a permanent home for more than 100 of her best pieces at Carousel World, a museum and working carousel she helped establish at Peddler's Village in Lahaska, Pa., outside New Hope.
        Anyone who hasn't seen them there may have caught a glimpse of a few of her prize pieces in the family mail. The United States Postal Service has twice used Mrs. Dinger's collection as the basis for an issue of commemorative stamps depicting carousel animals.
        Despite her interest in collecting individual carousel figures, Mrs. Dinger campaigned to keep the dwindling supply of working carousels intact. (According to the American Carousel Society, which estimates there were once 3,000 to 6,000 carousels in the country, from the famous Flying Horses on Martha's Vineyard, where children still ride on the oldest American carousel, assembled in 1884, to the last carousels produced in the 1920's, there are now only 133 left.)
        And all her instincts as a collector and her appreciation of carousels and carousel figures as art, Mrs. Dinger never forgot her initial childhood fascination with the fairy tale experience of whirling around on a noble horse.
        During her many visits to carousels across the country, Mrs. Dinger was never content just to look. She always climbed aboard and took a ride.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Carl Dinger 3d of Sugarland Tex., and Jeff, of Morris Plains, N.J., and two granddaughters.
      