
        Marion Durham Cuyjet, a pioneering teacher of black dancers, died on Oct. 22 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Mrs. Cuyjet was 76 and lived in Philadelphia.
        She had been suffering from cardiopulmonary disorders, according to her son, Stephen Cuyjet Jr.
        Mrs. Cuyjet's most famous pupil was Judith Jamison, artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. Ms. Jamison began training in ballet at the age of 6 with ''Miss Marion,'' as everyone called Mrs. Cuyjet (pronounced soo-zhay).
        In addition to teaching classical ballet and other dance techniques,  Mrs. Cuyjet taught her students that ''dancers were not hybrid creatures dropped down from the clouds with no relation to earth,'' as Ms. Jamison noted in her autobiography, ''Dancing Spirit.''
        Mrs. Cuyjet also provided subliminal lessons in determination and race relations. ''She looked Caucasian and rented studio space that landlords would not rent to a person they thought was black,'' Ms. Jamison wrote. ''She broke the color barrier and was constantly evicted once black children were discovered on the premises; she had to move her school seven times.''
        Born in Cheswold, Del., Mrs. Cuyjet studied ballet in Philadelphia with Essie Marie Dorsey, herself a student of Michel Fokine and Mikhail Mordkin, and opened the Judimar School in 1948. Mrs. Cuyjet created dances for public events in the city, and in the late 1950's was the principal choreographer for the annual Christmas Cotillion sponsored by Heritage House, a leading black cultural organization in Philadelphia.
        From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years. She was also a dance panelist on the Pennsylvania State Arts Council.
        Mrs. Cuyjet's husband, Stephen, died in 1980. In addition to her son, Stephen Jr., of San Diego, she is survived by a daughter, Judith Coldvin, of Marlton, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Philadelphia; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      