
        Audrey Cohen, an innovative educator for more than 30 years and president and founder of Audrey Cohen College, died on Sunday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said Alida Mesrop, acting president of Audrey Cohen College.
        Despite her diminutive and seemingly frail stature, Ms. Cohen was a powerhouse of energy when scorning the rigidity and failures of the contemporary educational system and proposing how to reform it.
        Her central idea -- that education must never be abstract but must be closely linked with clearly understood purposes -- attracted wide interest, especially among individuals and institutions serving members of minority groups, immigrants and the disadvantaged seeking access to the mainstream of American society.
        At present, Audrey Cohen schools enroll about 20,000 elementary and secondary school students at locations in five states (Arizona, California, Florida, Mississippi and Tennessee), and some 1,500 undergraduate and graduate students in Manhattan at 75 Varick Street.
        All of these institutions practice what Ms. Cohen described in a recent interview as "purpose centered" instruction. Her theory, she explained, is that  students learn best when they use their knowledge and skills to achieve a stated purpose.
        In the early grades, she said, an entire class guided by a teacher may focus  on a single purpose, like finding ways to work together. Older students plan and carry out individual programs aimed at purposes like "We work for safety" or "We help people through the arts."
        College-level students devote each semester to a more complex purpose in classes like "Values and Ethics," in which they study history, literature and government to extract ethical ideas, and "Self and Others," for the study of arts and writing, to develop productive relationships with people of all ages and cultures.
        "Instead of teaching, let's say, the works of Schopenhauer or Rousseau," she  said, "our college students concentrate on a purpose such as 'Values and Ethics' in which they may read passages from the writings of Schopenhauer, Rousseau and  others which are relevant to the study of values and ethics. That way, it has a  deeper meaning to the students."
        Asked if approaching the classics with relatively narrow and invariably positive preconceptions might distort their meaning, Ms. Cohen insisted that students at her institutions are encouraged to read more than just assigned passages. "Our approach helps students to fit things together," she said.
        Her methods have attracted considerable interest and support among educators  throughout the country. Since 1992, Audrey Cohen College has received substantial grants from the New American Schools Development Corporation, a private, nonprofit organization based in Arlington, Va., that supports research  to find ways to revitalize teaching.
        This year the college has been selected for support by the Education Commission of the States, a nonprofit organization that advises the states on education policy.
        Born and raised in Pittsburgh, Ms. Cohen graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pittsburgh, and later did postgraduate work at George Washington University.
        In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
        In the 1960's, Ms. Cohen became aware of the nation's shift from a manufacturing to a service economy, and the lack of training to meet the new requirements. This awareness led to her founding the Women's Talent Corps, which prepared numerous women for careers in such fields as social work, mental health services, occupational therapy and paralegal work.
        Soon the Talent Corps became the College for Human Services, and there Ms. Cohen developed the ideas that led in 1964 to the founding of Audrey Cohen College, with its emphasis on practicality and purpose.
        Ms. Cohen is survived by her husband, Dr. Ralph Wharton of Manhattan; two daughters, Winifred Alisa Cohen-Smith of Manhattan and Dawn Jennifer Cohen Margolin of Piedmont, Calif., and a brother, Carl Cohen of North Haven, Conn.
      