
        Angela Romano Perez, an advocate for the disabled whose life was a model of the personal independence, responsibility and achievement she championed, died on Friday at the Cabrini Hospice in the Gramercy Park area of Manhattan. Ms. Perez, a lifelong resident of the Upper East Side, was 49.
        Her husband, Joseph, said the cause was breast cancer.
        Ms. Perez, who was born with cerebral palsy, spent her life trying to change the prejudices that disabled people often encounter or even impose on themselves.
        At her death, she was the program director of the Y.W.C.A. of New York City, for which she directed the Networking Project for People With Disabilities. ''The project was founded to provide young people with disabilities with positive role models because, particularly for young women with disabilities, there tends to be a lack of visible, appealing role models,'' said Madeline F. Beusse, a consultant who worked with Ms. Perez on the financing of the project. ''The project is about empowerment, boosting self-esteem and opening doors.''
        Besides leading the Networking Project, which is paid for by the city's Youth Services Department and private donations, Ms. Perez designed and oversaw a study of the accessibility of health services for disabled women. Called ''Breaking Down Barriers: Eliminating Obstacles to Reproductive Health Care for Women With Disabilities'' and financed by the New York State Department of Health, the study is continuing. The findings and recommendations are to be presented by its board -- health care professionals, disability advocates and corporate and public officials -- at a conference in the spring.
        Before taking the Y.W.C.A. post in 1988, Ms. Perez was the educational counseling coordinator for the Mayor's Office for People With Disabilities, from 1983 to 1987.
        Working to raise awareness of domestic violence against people with disabilities, she served on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's task force on domestic violence, giving a voice to some of the more vulnerable victims of abuse.
        Ms. Perez was also on the board of directors of the Center for the Independence of the Disabled and a vice president of Women With Disabilities, both of which are advocacy and service organizations.
        Combining advocacy with her love of travel, Ms. Perez attended the nongovernmental forum on women held in Beijing in conjunction with the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women last year. She went frequently to Canada to collaborate with the Disabled Women's Networ, and traveled as well to Japan, Thailand, Austria, Britain and Italy and throughout the United States.
        On Oct. 5, her birthday, a personal letter of commendation from Hillary Rodham Clinton was delivered to Ms. Perez's room at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, where she had been under care since August. It was followed by a letter from the Mayor, commending Ms. Perez for the difference she had made in the life of New Yorkers.
        Ms. Perez held two degrees from Hunter College: a Bachelor of Arts in psychology, awarded in 1978, and a Master of Science in education, awarded in 1983.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Stephen and Mary Romano, and her brother, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      