
        Marjorie Shostak, a woman from a traditional family in Flatbush whose book about a bold older woman from the !Kung San tribe in Africa's Kalahari Desert rode an early wave of women's studies and injected new life into techniques of anthropology, died on Sunday at DeKalb Medical Center in Atlanta. She was 51.
        The cause was breast cancer, family members said.
        Ms. Shostak relayed her findings in a 1981 book, ''Nisa: The Life and Words of a !Kung Woman'' (Harvard University Press), illustrated with her photographs. The book revealed the world of a 50-ish !Kung San woman who says, for example, speaking of sex in old age, ''Then I'll wear the beads and powder and I'll be beautiful again, so beautiful that the men will say, 'Nisa, aren't you a lovely one.' ''
        The book, which is frequently used as a text in women's studies and anthropology classes, portrayed Nisa, a name that Ms. Shostak invented to protect the privacy of the subject, as a vibrant, piercing, blunt, frank desert woman who would discuss sex, men, jealousy and women's anatomy as casually as a woman in Flatbush might discuss a grocery list.
        The encounter between Nisa and the author took place during Ms. Shostak's initial field work from 1968 to 1971, when she was 21 and had just married her Brooklyn College sweetheart. Nisa was about 30 years older.
        Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
        Nisa's life, as described by Ms. Shostak, was one through which readers came to understand that !Kung San were open and direct in ways that amazed Westerners.
        ''It was a life that we can recognize emotionally,'' said Brenda Bynum, an associate of Ms. Shostak.
        The language of the !Kung San involves a number of click sounds that others find difficult to speak, let alone learn. (The exclamation point, in Western depictions of the language, is used to represent the click sound.) Yet Ms. Shostak was able to learn it by pointing to objects and asking women to talk about them. Learning from women as she sat under trees or in grass huts, Ms. Shostak quickly reached a level of mastery that allowed her to conduct the hours of interviews with Nisa and other women about their lives.
        Ms. Shostak wrote the book while she and her husband lived in Cambridge, Mass., where she was an associate of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.
        Beginning in 1983, both were associated with Emory University, where she was an adjunct assistant professor of anthropology.
        In 1993, Ms. Shostak, part way through an eight-year battle with breast cancer and believing that it would be her last chance to see Nisa, spent weeks searching for her in the deserts and, remarkably, found her. The story was recorded in a second book, ''Nisa Revisited,'' that Ms. Shostak had largely completed before she died, Dr. Konner said.
        Ms. Shostak lacked training in anthropology -- she earned a bachelor's degree in literature at Brooklyn College -- but her work was the subject of a number of doctoral studies in that field, and although she wrote few academic works, her field work was often analyzed at academic conferences, her husband said.
        She is survived by her husband, two daughters, Susanna B. Konner and Sarah B. Konner, and a son, Adam J. Konner, all of Atlanta; her parents, Jerome and Edna Shostak of Midwood, Brooklyn, and Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Lucy Shostak of Baldwin, L.I.
      