
        Mignon G. Eberhart, a highly prolific author of mystery novels who specialized in stories that combined romance and suspense, died yesterday in the Nathaniel Witherell nursing home in Greenwich, Conn., where she lived. She was 97.
        In a 60-year career, Mrs. Eberhardt was one of the most popular mystery writers and one of the most highly paid. She wrote 59 books, including novels and several collections of stories. Her first mystery was published in 1929 and her last, ''Three Days for Emeralds,'' in 1988, when she was in her late 80's.
        Her novels have been translated into more than 20 languages, and in the 1930's many of them were turned into movies. Several of her books are still in print, and six of her early novels were recently republished by the University of Nebraska Press.
        Reviewing Mrs. Eberhart's ''Next of Kin'' in 1982, Newgate Callendar wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''contains all of the formulas she has so successfully conjured up through the years -- rich families, nice people, romance, something of a locked-room mystery, lots of suspects.''
        Mignon Good was born in Lincoln, Neb., on July 6, 1899. She studied for three years at Nebraska Wesleyan University. In 1923, soon after her marriage to Alanson Eberhart, an engineer, she began writing in earnest.
        ''The Dark Corridor,'' a novella, was printed in 1925 in Flynn's, a detective magazine. Her first novel,  ''The Patient in Room 18,'' featured Nurse Sarah Keate, an amateur sleuth who worked with a young detective, Lance O'Leary. With or without Detective O'Leary, Nurse Sarah starred in other Eberhart mysteries and was played on the screen by Aline MacMahon, Jane Darwell and Ann Sheridan. Mrs. Eberhart's other detectives included Susan Dare, a mystery writer, and James Wickwire, a banker.
        With her penchant for plucky heroines in distress, Mrs. Eberhart was considered a disciple of Mary Roberts Rinehart, but eventually she became known as a writer of romance mysteries with a touch of the gothic. In this area she influenced writers like Mary Higgins Clark.
        Her atmospheric stories often took place in exotic locales: Hong Kong, Lisbon, the Caribbean. Among her books are ''While the Patient Slept'' (her second novel, which won the $5,000 Scotland Yard Prize in 1930), ''Never Look Back,'' ''Call After Midnight,'' ''Run Scared,'' ''Speak No Evil'' and ''With This Ring.'' In collaboration with Robert Wallsten, she adapted her novel ''Fair Warning,'' into a play, ''Eight O'Clock Tuesday,'' which ran on Broadway in 1941.
        When she was asked to name her favorite writers, she said that she never missed a book by Agatha Christie or Ngaio Marsh. ''They are old friends, of course. But my real love is for the brotherhood and sisterhood of the genre.'' She added, ''I love mystery writers as a breed, and am so glad to belong.''
        No immediate family members survive.
      