
        Jessie Bernard, a sociologist whose wide-ranging research and writings on women's issues provided scholarly foundation for the modern feminist revolution, died on Oct. 6 at a nursing home in Washington. She was 93.
        By rights, Dr. Bernard should have been content to observe the reawakening of feminism benignly from the far side of a long and completed career.
        Indeed, when Betty Friedan revived feminist fervor with the publication of her landmark ''Feminine Mystique'' in 1963, Dr. Bernard was a 60-year-old Penn State professor a year away from retirement. And, with the exception of ''Academic Women,'' a 1961 work derived from her own experiences in academia, the dozen or so works on subjects like community organization that had gained her reputation as a respected scholar seemed remote from the suddenly urgent issues raised by the Friedan treatise.
        But like many professional women of a certain age who had balanced a successful career with marriage and motherhood, Dr. Bernard came to the realization that she had been a feminist all along and, as it turned out, had a lot to say on the subject.
        So much so, in fact, that within a decade after her formal retirement in 1964 she had turned out a torrent of books -- among them ''The Sex Game,'' ''The Female World,'' ''The Future of Marriage'' and ''The Future of Motherhood'' -- that established her as a premier scholar of the women's movement.
        It is in part a tribute to her scholarship that many of the ideas she advanced, like the notion that marriage generally benefits men more than women, seem commonplace today.
        Although her works were based on meticulous research, as a feminist scholar Dr. Bernard had an edge. For when it came to writing about women as wives, mothers and breadwinners, she had not only been there and done that, she had also done it with uncommon flair.
        On the surface, she had led the most conventional of lives. The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
        But surfaces can be deceiving, and there was very little conventional about Dr. Bernard.
        For one thing, the college sweetheart she married was not a classmate, but one of her professors, Dr. Luther Lee Bernard, a founder of the modern study of sociology and a man more than twice her age when they met in a classroom and felt such a powerful mutual attraction that neither looked back.
        She then accelerated her education, graduating at 20 and receiving a master's degree the next year. After marrying her professor she began a peripatetic life, following him band from academic post to post, including a sojourn to Argentina, where she helped him with the research that would win him wide acclaim.
        Dr. Bernard did not obtain her own doctorate, from Washington University in St. Louis, until she was 32, and did not begin her teaching career, at the Lindewood College for Women, near St. Louis, until she was 37.
        Then, at a time when many women's children are beginning to leave home, Dr. Bernard started having children, the first when she was 39, another when she was 42 and the last when she was 47, three years after she and her husband had joined the Penn State faculty and six months before his death at the age of 69.
        By the time she retired from Penn State and began writing about women's issues, Dr. Bernard knew what it meant to be both a wife and a single mother.
        She moved her family to Washington and became a central figure in the feminist revolution, studying subtle forms of sex discrimination as scholar in residence for the United States Commission on Civil Rights, for example, and becoming a founding board member for the Center for Women in Policy Studies.
        In her later years Dr. Bernard, who was known for her beaming smile and generosity in helping younger scholars, exerted a magnetic attraction at conferences and other gatherings, her colleagues at the center said, and was regarded by some scholars as a founding mother of sociology.
        Dr. Bernard is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Jackson of Washington; two sons, Claude, of Laurel, Md., and David, of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      