
        Irma Ullmann, the matriarch of a New York philanthropic family, died on Nov. 4 at White Plains Hospital while staying with family in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 91 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since moving from Manhattan more than 30 years ago.
        Working through the Ullmann Family Foundation, she carried on the work she began with her husband, Siegfried Ullmann, a Wall Street commodities trader, supporting educational and medical institutions here and in Israel. Centers and projects they sponsored in both countries bear their name.
        Among the chief beneficiaries were Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where she was a board member of the national women's division. The Ullmanns established the college's Research Center for Health Sciences and a chair in molecular genetics.
        At the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, she was a principal supporter of scientific and technological research at the institute in Haifa. The Ullman Teaching Center serves undergraduates and Technion's 19 faculty departments, and family funds sustained an Ullmann Robotics Center, along with scholarships, dormitories and laboratories.
        The Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel was a beneficiary from its beginning, and she left her stamp on its Ullmann Institute of Life Sciences, the Ullmann Gallery at Weizmann, to which she contributed art from her private collection, and an Ullmann Professorial Chair.
        Other major recipients included UJA-Federation of New York and the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. The Lichtenstadter Hospital for the Chronically Ill in Israel was established in memory of her parents, Jakob and Flora Lichtenstadter.
        Mrs. Ullmann is survived by a son, Dr. Leonard P. Ullmann of Incline Village, Nev., five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. Her husband of 40 years, Siegfried, a founder and former president of the international metals and commodities trading firm of Philipp Brothers, died in 1966.
      