
        Dorothy Bird, an early Martha Graham dancer who also appeared on Broadway and became a noted Graham teacher, died on Tuesday at the home of her son, Casey Villard, in Etna, N.H. She was 84.
        Born on Vancouver Island in British Columbia, Miss Bird was a shy,  impressionable teen-ager with a vivid imagination when she made her way to the Cornish School in Seattle in 1930 to study with Graham, who was then just making her name as a modern-dance choreographer. Charmed by Graham and her unorthodox, impassioned approach to teaching dance, Miss Bird followed her to New York to study with her at the Neighborhood Playhouse and joined the Graham company in 1931.
        She made her debut in ''Primitive Mysteries'' and performed small roles in such dances as ''Panorama'' and ''Chronicles'' in her six years with the group. She also demonstrated classroom exercises for Graham, but eventually realized that she was not going to become a leading Graham performer.
        She had also began to feel ''enslaved,'' as she later put it, by the demanding Graham. She broke with her in 1937, moving on that year to Broadway, where she performed for 10 years in musicals including ''Lady in the Dark.''
        Miss Bird also performed at resorts in the Catskills and with modern-dance groups that included the Limon Trio, dancing with Jose Limon and Beatrice Seckler through 1947. She taught modern dance for 25  years at such places as the Neighborhood Playhouse, the School of American Ballet and the 92d Street Y  and was a master teacher at New York University and other colleges in and around New York.
        A witty anecdotalist and shrewd observer of modern-dance history, Miss Bird had been at work on her autobiography with a friend, Joyce  Greenberg. The book, ''A Bird's Eye View,'' will be published next year by the University of Pittsburgh Press.
        Miss Bird's husband, Paul Villard, died in 1994.
        In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren.
      