
        Ruth E. Moskowitz of Brooklyn, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died on Nov. 2 at Mount Sinai Medical Center. A native and lifetime resident of Brooklyn Heights, she was 60.
        Her family said the cause was scleroderma, a rheumatological disorder.
        Judge Moskowitz first won election to the State Supreme Court in 1982 and was assigned to Criminal Term, Kings County. She was re-elected posthumously this month to a second 14-year term.
        She received a bachelor's degree in sociology from Brooklyn College and a master's from the University of Connecticut, then joined the civil rights movement in the summer of 1961. On a mission to integrate a Jackson, Miss., lunch counter, she was arrested and charged with trespassing.
        While in solitary confinement in a Mississippi state prison, she made a decision to go into law. She graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1964 and went to work for the Legal Aid Society. She was in private practice when she first ran for Civil Court in 1976.
        Over the years, she presided over many cases of Medicaid fraud and official corruption. In 1988, one of her cases produced a memorable encounter with Mayor Edward I. Koch.  At issue was the forbearance she had shown to a score of former parking-meter collectors who had pocketed thousands of dollars. Because they had no prior records, she had accepted their guilty pleas and given them sentences that involved no jail time, fines or restitution. Mayor Koch was moved to appear in person to support the demand for such penalties by the Brooklyn District Attorney, Elizabeth Holtzman.
        The judge scolded the Mayor for his trouble, pointing out that he was lavishing his attention on a case involving ''little people.'' She also faulted what she called the administration's sloppy supervision.
        Yes, she told the Mayor, little people become malefactors, too, but they have rights. She added that the defendants ''are going to be treated just the way the big boys are being treated,'' alluding to politically connected officials involved in recent corruption scandals. She declined to amend her decision.
        Justice Moskowitz served on professional panels, in the Office of Court Administration and the New York Task Force on Women in the Courts.
        She is survived by her husband, Martin Gershon; a daughter, Leah, and two sons, Joel and Robert, all of Brooklyn Heights; a sister, Anne Lyons of Manhattan, and her mother, Gussie Moskowitz, also of Brooklyn.
      