
        Alma Kitchell, a pioneering radio singer who became a pioneering talk show host, sang in the first televised opera and capped her career by presiding over the first television cooking show, died on Wednesday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 103.
        She was known as the Golden Voice of the Golden Age of radio, and from the time she walked into NBC's old New York station, WJZ, in 1927 and sang her way into a job, her rich contralto was rarely silent for the next two decades.
        After singing regularly on the local station for a year, she moved up to NBC's old Blue network, spending two years with the NBC Opera Company and five years as the soloist on a weekly program with the NBC concert orchestra before increasing her schedule to three nights a week for a seven-year run.
        By the time she abandoned broadcast singing in 1940, Miss Kitchell had embarked on a new phase of her vocal career, as the originator and host of a series of talk shows devoted to women's concerns. Her program and Mary Margaret McBride's, which ran on NBC's Red network, are regarded as the first radio talk shows.
        Under names like ''Let's Talk It Over,'' ''Women's Exchange,'' and ''Alma Kitchell's Brief Case,'' in which she answered her voluminous mail, the programs were broadcast from 1938 to 1947, initially on NBC and later on ABC, the network organized in 1943 to take over NBC's Blue network.
        Along the way, Miss Kitchell interviewed prominent women like Eleanor Roosevelt, discussed family and social issues and chatted about her own active life.
        For all the fans she acquired as a singer, Miss Kitchell became even more famous as a talk show host, and she put her celebrity to civic use, especially during World War II. She once sang on the air while giving blood, for example, and she conceived of and popularized the slogan ''A Stamp a Day for the Man Who's Away'' to help sell war bonds.
        A formidable woman on or off the air, Miss Kitchell, who had been sent on cross-country speaking tours by NBC to promote radio, became an important fund-raiser for the Republican Party in New York and was named to state commissions by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey.
        A native of Superior, Wis., Miss Kitchell, whose maiden name was Hopkins, began singing locally. She studied at the Cincinnati Conservatory and came to New York in 1912 at the age of 19 to pursue a professional career.
        According to family legend, she was chaperoned by her mother during her first year in New York, spent the second year on her own and in the third married her voice teacher, Charles W. Kitchell.
        She began by singing with major local choral societies and orchestras, and made her debut at Town Hall in 1924 in a program that included Bach and Handel airs, Swiss and Jewish folksongs and modern French, German and Russian songs with American lyrics.
        By the time she began her radio career in 1927, Miss Kitchell had already established her credentials as a broadcast pioneer. In 1917, six years before regular broadcasts were begun, she sang for an experimental station established at the base of the Statue of Liberty.
        For all her devotion to music, Miss Kitchell came to love radio more. In 1937, she turned down an opportunity to join the Metropolitan Opera in order to stay in broadcasting.
        Although she was primarily known for her work in radio, Miss Kitchell was a pioneer in television as well. In 1939, when RCA began the first experimental television broadcasts from its Rockefeller Center headquarters, she sang the part of Ruth, the piratical maid of all work, in the first televised opera, Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Pirates of Penzance.''
        Eight years later, at the dawn of network television in 1947, Miss Kitchell abandoned her radio career and ABC to return to NBC and make television history once again, this time as the star of the first commercial network television series, also  television's first cooking show, ''In the Kelvinator Kitchen.''
        She remained on the program until 1949, then retired from public life.
        Miss Kitchell, whose first husband died in 1956, married Joseph Yoder, a retired chemical engineer, in 1965 and settled in Florida. Mr. Yoder died about a decade ago.
        Miss Kitchell remained in vigorous health until her 100th birthday. It was an occasion noted by Willard Scott, the ''Today'' weatherman, from NBC's studios in the same building where she had helped open the television era a half-century earlier.
        She is survived by two sons,  Charles Kitchell of Osterville, Mass.,  and James Kitchell of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and four great-grandhildren.
      