
        Tess Hyman, whose efforts for nearly a half-century on behalf of fans in wheelchairs attending Giants and Jets football games earned her the nickname Tess of the Meadowlands, died yesterday morning at her home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 92.
        Until recent years, on any game day, Mrs. Hyman could be seen at Gate B at Giants Stadium, insuring smooth passage for the approximately 200 fans in wheelchairs and their escorts who attended the home games of the two New York area franchises in the National Football League.
        Once in the stadium, she became what one paraplegic once called ''a mom to 250 kids.''
        Mrs. Hyman's work was a continuation of a program started for disabled veterans more than 50 years ago by the late Dr. N. Howard Hyman, the dentist Mrs. Hyman met soon after her arrival in New York from West Virginia. She had broken a tooth on an oyster shell and he was the dentist to whom she was referred.
        Soon, the two were not only courting but also working with the disabled at sporting events. Seven years after the dental appointment, and many years after escorting not only disabled veterans but any wheelchair-bound fans to games, the two were married.
        The Hymans first oversaw the attendance of disabled veterans at Giants games at the Polo Grounds, then followed the team's migration to Yankee Stadium in 1956, then Giants Stadium in 1976. Soon, their efforts encompassed Jets games as well.
        At first, the Hymans paid all expenses. Then more help arrived, first in small bequests from patients' wills, then finally through Preston Robert Tisch, who owns 50 percent of the Giants and who married Joan Hyman, Dr. Hyman's daughter from his first marriage.
        So while her husband, whom everyone called Doc, attended to the tickets and logistics, Mrs. Hyman served cake and coffee and became a troubleshooter, all the while marveling at the medicinal effect a sport could have on those who had lost limbs, sight or the ability to walk.
        ''Sometimes when they get excited, they almost stand up in their wheelchairs,'' Mrs. Hyman once said.
        Mrs. Hyman was also impressed by the inner strength the disabled displayed over the years. ''They're better than regular guys,'' she said. ''Regular guys bellyache about the least little thing. These guys are grateful for what they've got left.''
        She assumed control of the program in the 1980's upon her husband's death. Several years ago, both the Giants and the Jets dedicated a special section of their shared stadium to the couple.
        Though she had attended hundreds of games, Mrs. Hyman admitted that she never really watched them. ''I don't understand football,'' she said in a 1991 interview. ''I've never been able to see a game through. I'm always getting up and trying to straighten something out.''
        She is survived by her sister, Kathryn Parsont, and her stepdaughter, Joan.
      