
        Louise Bates Ames, a psychologist whose pioneering work on children held that development unfolded in discrete, predictable stages, died last Thursday at her granddaughter's home in Cincinnati. She was 88 and lived in New Haven until shortly before her death.
        The cause was cancer, said Jacqueline I. Haines, director of the Gesell Institute in New Haven, which Dr. Ames helped found in 1950.
        Working in the 1930's and 40's with Frances L. Ilg and Arnold Gesell, and then later at the institute named in Dr. Gesell's honor, Dr. Ames developed the thesis that ages have patterned, predictable behavior. Thus, at about 2 1/2 years old, for example, children tend to become inflexible and rigid; the result is the ''terrible 2's,'' a term they helped popularize.
        The idea that children develop in stages and that parents and doctors should pay attention to them was quite important in its time, said Dr. Sidney M. Baker, who headed the institute from 1978 to 1985. ''Now we know about these things, and it doesn't seem so surprising,'' he said.
        But the work was later criticized as being too inflexible and too tied to the idea that a child's development is set in stone by genetics. ''People would talk about Gesell testing as if they were saying all 4-year-olds should be the same,'' Dr. Baker said.
        In reality, the researchers thought just the opposite; they used their testing and research techniques ''as a measure of individuality, not conformity,'' he said.
        Dr. Ames's greatest impact, Dr. Baker said, was in educating parents and teachers about the rhythms of child development. She was a prolific writer, and her work included a syndicated newspaper column with Dr. Ilg and co-authorship of several best-selling books; among them, ''Child Behavior'' (published in 1981 and reissued by Harper Perennial in 1992) is still popular. She also developed several television series on child development, including one in the early days of television, in 1952.
        Louise Bates was born in Portland, Me., and received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Maine. In 1933, she joined the  Yale Clinic of Child Development, working as Dr. Gesell's research assistant. She received her Ph.D. from Yale in 1937, studying how infants make the transition to crawling, or ''prone procession.''
        When Dr. Gesell retired in 1948, the direction of the clinic changed toward a more psychoanalytic view of child development, Dr. Haines said. Dr. Ames and Dr. Ilg moved up the hill from the campus and founded the Gesell Institute, unaffiliated with the university, to continue their research.
        That research consisted largely of filming children as they played or did certain tasks. Dr. Ames and the others compiled hundreds of hours of films, later studying them in minute detail.
        It was cinema of a different sort that caused trouble for Dr. Ames in the mid-1980's, when she was criticized for suggesting in a newspaper interview that parents should not take young children to see the Disney film ''Bambi,'' in which the young deer's mother is killed by hunters.
        ''I think this is one of any child's greatest fears, that something will happen to his mother,'' Dr. Ames said in a later interview, defending her position. She recommended that any parent who felt compelled to take a child under age 5 to see the movie should read the book to the child first, to gauge the reaction. ''And I would then wait a few days,'' she advised, ''because sometimes a child cries uncontrollably at the time, and sometimes they seem to stand something O.K. and then they start having nightmares.''
        Dr. Ames's marriage to Smith Ames, a medical doctor, in the 1930's ended in divorce.
        In addition to her granddaughter, Carol Haber, she is survived by a brother, Silas Bates of Philadelphia; a grandson, Clifford Chase, who lives in Ohio, and four great-grandchildren.
      