
        Jacquetta Hawkes, archeologist and author, who was the widow of the playwright and novelist J. B. Priestley, died on Monday at Cheltenham General Hospital in London. She was 85, and lived in the Cotswolds town of Chipping Camden.
        In "Man on Earth," "A Land" and many other books, Ms. Hawkes searched for the humanity within science. She said, "Let us have the courage to accept the inner  experience that tells us we are something more and that we may be part of a process much greater still." Her fervent interest was in the world of prehistory.
        Discovering a Neanderthal skeleton, she said: "I was conscious of this vanished being and myself as part of an unbroken stream of consciousness . . . With an imaginative effort it is possible to see the eternal present in which all days, all the seasons of the plain, stand in enduring unity." In her polymathic career, she was also a poet and novelist and, in collaboration with her husband, a playwright.
        Reviewing "Time and the Priestleys, the Story of a Friendship," Diana Collins's 1994 double biography of Mr. Priestley and Ms. Hawkes, Peter Ackroyd said there was no reason Ms. Hawkes "should be remembered as the wife of anyone  . . . since her own story is as interesting and as compelling as that of Priestley himself."
        That story began in her childhood when she dug in her family garden, which had once been part of an Anglo-Saxon cemetery. As Mr. Ackroyd said, "She discovered nothing, but found within herself a lasting treasure; it was her love of learning and her passion for the past." It was her goal in life "to retrieve  the landscapes of history."
        Jacquetta Hopkins was born on Aug. 10, 1910, in Cambridge, which became the center of her early life. She graduated from the university with a degree in archeology and anthropology. In 1933, she married Christopher Hawkes, a professor of archeology, and they had a son, Nicolas. Her interest in archeology took her on expeditions to Palestine as well as England. During and immediately  after World War II, she held several government posts and was the founder of the United Kingdom Commission for Unesco.
        Her 1951 book, "A Land" (with illustrations by Henry Moore), was based on her work as archeological adviser for the Festival of Britain. In his review in the  New York Times Book Review, Stanley Edgar Hyman said that Ms. Hawkes had told the "story of the shaping of the earth and the development of life with simple eloquence" and described "A Land" as "a triumph of skill as well as a work of love." Through the next 30 years Ms. Hawkes was a prolific author, writing bold  and often poetic books about archeology, geology and the history of mankind.
        In 1947 she met Mr. Priestley at a Unesco conference in Mexico City. They were drawn together by the "magnetism of polarity," said Ms. Hawkes. She divorced Mr. Hawkes, and in 1953 married Mr. Priestley. It was his third marriage. She and Mr. Priestley collaborated on several projects, including the  play "Dragon's Mouth." When it was produced Off Broadway in 1955, Brooks Atkinson said in his review that the authors had "succeeded in writing a remarkably stimulating conversation" that was second only to Shaw's "Don Juan in Hell."
        Ms. Hawkes's books included "A Woman as Great as the World," a collection of  fables and a science fiction novelette; "Journey Down a Rainbow," a personalized account of a visit to the United States written with Mr. Priestley; "Providence  Island: An Archeological Tale"; "King of the Two Lands: The Pharaoh, Akhenaten," and "Dawn of the Gods," a study of Greece in the Bronze Age. In the 1970's she wrote "The First Great Civilizations: Life in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and  Egypt," and atlases of ancient archeology and early human life. "A Quest for Love," in 1981, was an autobiographical novel.
        Mr. Priestley died in 1984. Ms. Hawkes is survived by her son from her first  marriage.
      