
        Carol Robbins, a trained musician, educator and co-director of the Nordoff-Robbins Center for Music Therapy at New York University, died on Dec. 12 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 54.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Clive Robbins.
        She started her musical education at 8 and, by the time she finished high school, was an accomplished vocalist, church organist and accompanist. She earned B.S. and M.S. degrees in music education at the Crane School of Music at State University College in Potsdam, N.Y., and was certified as a teacher for youngsters with perceptual handicaps. She started training in music therapy in 1966 with Paul Nordoff and Dr. Robbins, founders of a creative music therapy practiced at schools in this country and Europe. Her own career began at the Little Red School House in Poughkeepsie.
        After she and Dr. Robbins were married in 1975, the couple worked as a team. They developed a music curriculum for the New York State School for the Deaf in Rome, N.Y., working with severely hearing-impaired youngsters.
        With Prof. Arthur Boothroyd they researched musical perception by such children as a basis for establishing techniques aimed at getting even the most profoundly deaf among them to play music.
        Mrs. Robbins's vocal and keyboard skills at improvisation added versatility to their work and freedom to explore. Together, the Robbinses wrote ''Music for the Hearing Impaired and Other Special Groups: A Resource Manual and Curriculum Guide'' (MMB Music, 1980), a standard text in this specialized field.
        She taught Nordoff-Robbins music therapy at institutes and schools in London, Germany and Japan and traveled worldwide to lecture and teach. She and Dr. Robbins returned to this country in 1989 to establish and direct the center at N.Y.U. within the Graduate Music Therapy Program, where it provides treatment, training and research.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Robbins is survived by a daughter, Debra Matteson of Ilion, N.Y.; her mother, Adalyn Matteson, and her siblings, Christine Phinney and David Matteson, all of Oswego.
      