
        Grace M. Mayer, a pioneering curator of photography who was instrumental in rediscovering the work of Jacob Riis and who built a major collection of prints and photographs for the Museum of the City of New York, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95.
        ''She was well ahead of her time in recognizing the art of photography,'' said Peter Galassi, chief curator of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art, where Ms. Mayer also became a curator. ''And generations of photographers are indebted to her careful and sympathetic attention to their work.''
        Ms. Mayer was an elegant, witty and intensely precise woman. (One of her hobbies was meticulously compiling errors in The New York Times.)
        She was born in New York City.  Her father was an investment banker. It was expected that she would lead the sheltered life of a society woman, but she carved out a career for herself.
        Having been privately tutored in New York and abroad, she joined the Red Cross as a nurse's aide during World War I. She joined the Museum of the City of New York in 1930, when it was a fledgling institution in Gracie Mansion.
        Immersing herself in the job, she read cover to cover the 6,000-page ''Iconography of Manhattan Island,'' by I. N. Phelps Stokes, developing an encyclopedic knowledge of the city.
        She spent the next three decades at the museum, organizing more than 100 shows, among them ''Currier & Ives and the New York Scene'' and ''We Cover The New Yorker.'' In 1934 she organized the first important Berenice Abbott show in the United States. She also secured major and varied collections, including the Harry T. Peters Collection of Currier & Ives prints, and more than 10,000 photographs of the city.
        And she published ''Once Upon a City,'' a detailed and imaginative portrait of New York at the turn of the century illustrated by the photographs of Joseph and Percy Byron, which she also acquired for the museum.
        In 1957 Ms. Mayer helped Edward Steichen, head of the photography department at the Modern, organize a show there of photographs of the city. Steichen hired her as his assistant, and in 1962 she became curator of photography, organizing, among other things, the inaugural show in the Modern's first photography-collection galleries, which opened in 1964. She collaborated with Steichen on important shows like ''The Sense of Abstraction,'' and after retiring in 1968 she was appointed curator of the Edward Steichen Archive.
      