
        Virginia Henderson, who took a temporary job caring for World War I wounded and ended up helping to elevate nursing into a respected independent profession  as a renowned researcher, teacher and scholar, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. Known as the mother of modern nursing, she was 98.
        Her own experiences in taking care of patients for the Army in Washington, and later as a public health nurse there and in New York in the 1920's, informed and inspired her work. But it was as an educator and researcher, first at Teachers College of Columbia University in the 1930's and 40's and after 1953, at the Yale School of Nursing, that Miss Henderson made her greatest contributions to a long-scorned profession.
        To hear Miss Henderson tell it, a chief concern of hospital nurses when she  started was to keep their formidable starched white uniforms wrinkle-free.
        It was an era not far removed from when nurses were regarded as at best glorified domestics filling in for female relatives caring for home-bound patients (and paid somewhere between cooks and seamstresses). At worst, they were regarded as the dregs of a society that expected prostitutes and other female outcasts recovering from illnesses to care for sicker patients in the almshouses that were the forerunners of modern hospitals.
        After all, the definition of an untrained nurse as someone "too old, too weak, too drunken, too dirty, too stolid or too bad to do anything else," had been provided by Florence Nightingale herself.
        Miss Henderson was born in Kansas City, Mo., named for her mother's native state and later educated there at a boys' school run by her grandfather. By the  time she was propelled by patriotic fervor to enroll in the Army Nursing School  at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, training programs spurred by Nightingale's preachings had helped. But nurses were still largely regarded as the handmaidens of the physicians they assisted rather than independent professionals.
        Miss Henderson, who had initially planned to switch professions after two years, helped remedy that view of nurses in part through exhaustive research that helped establish the scholarly underpinnings of her profession.
        Beginning in 1939, she was the author of three editions of "Principles and Practices of Nursing," a widely used text, and her "Basic Principles of Nursing," published in 1966 and revised in 1972, has been published in 27 languages by the International Council of Nurses.
        Her most formidable achievement was a 19-year research project in which she gathered, reviewed, catalogued, classified and cross-referenced every known piece of research on nursing published in English, resulting in the five-volume  "Nursing Research: Survey and Assessment," written with Leo Simmons and published in 1964, and her four-volume "Nursing Studies Index," completed in 1972.
        It was a tribute to her work that in creating the first nursing library, the  nursing society Sigma Theta Tau International named it the Virginia Henderson International Nursing Library. The library, in Indianapolis, has been available  in electronic form through the Internet since 1994.
        Curiously, while Miss Henderson consistently stressed nursing's duty to the patient rather than to the doctor, her efforts to provide a scientific basis for nursing, including creating the universally used system of recording observations of the patient, have helped make nurses far more valuable to doctors.
        Still, Miss Henderson, who lobbied hard for a system of universal health care, was well aware that the largely female nursing profession had not reached  the level of acceptance that doctors enjoy.
        In 1985, when she received the first Christiane Reimann prize from the International Nursing Council, nursing's highest honor, she noted scornfully that diagnoses made by experienced, trained nurses were still not being accorded the medical weight of those made by physicians.
        "You know what M.D. stands for," she said. "Minor Deity."
        Miss Henderson is survived by a sister, Frances Houff of Lynchburg, Va., a nephew, four nieces and several great-nieces and nephews.
      