
        Amelia Agostino del Rio, a professor, author and longtime head of the Spanish department at Barnard College, died on Wednesday in Spring Lake, N.J., where she lived. She was 100.
        Mrs. del Rio wrote more than 45 books of poetry, essays, plays, short stories and art history, and, in collaboration with her husband, Angel del Rio, ''Antologia de la Literatura Espanola,'' which was considered to be the Bible of Spanish literature.
        She was born in Yauco in Puerto Rico. In 1918, after teaching in local high schools, she moved to New York. Later she worked her way through Vassar College by teaching Spanish, and graduated as a member of Phi Beta Kappa in 1922. She received a master's degree from Columbia University.
        In 1929, she began teaching at Barnard, where she was head of the Spanish department from 1941 to 1962. While at Barnard, she often acted in Spanish plays, playing a leading role in Federico Garcia Lorca's ''House of Bernardo Alba.''
        During the 1940's and 50's, she and her husband were known for opening their house to such Spanish intellectuals and writers as Pedro Salinas, Jorge Guillen, Camilo Jose Cela, Gabriel Mistral and Garcia Lorca. Recently she had been writing her recollections of Garcia Lorca's time in New York, including his visit with the del Rios in Shandaken, N.Y., in the summer of 1929.
        In the 1970's, she returned to Puerto Rico, where she continued teaching and and where she wrote for local newspapers. She founded the Museo de Reproducciones Artisticas in Bayamon, P.R. The museum opened in 1985.
        She was honored by Mayor Robert Wagner with a key to the city of New York and by Juan Carlos I, the King of Spain, with the highest civilian honor in that country. She also received the Citizen of the Year Award from the Institute of Puerto Rico.
        She is survived by a daughter, Carmen R. de Pinies of Spring Lake;  six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 17, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary on Saturday about a professor, author and longtime head of the Spanish department at Barnard College misspelled her maiden name. She was Amelia Agostini del Rio, not Agostino.
      