
        Josephine Patterson Albright, who flew the mail, shot tigers in India, covered Chicago crime in journalism's colorful "Front Page" era, ran an Illinois dairy and pig farm, bred horses in Wyoming, wrote a column about her family and  helped establish a foundation for journalists, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, Vt. She was 82.
        A daughter, Alice Arlen of Manhattan, said the death was caused by complications after a stroke.
        Mrs. Albright was a member of one of the most prominent families in American journalism. Her father, Joseph Medill Patterson, founded The Daily News in New York and helped found The Chicago Tribune. Her aunt, Eleanor Medill Patterson, published The Washington Times-Herald, and her older sister, Alicia Patterson, founded, published and edited Newsday.
        Like Alicia, who was seven years her senior, Josephine was told by her father that journalism was not for women. Both proved him wrong.
        When Josephine earned her spurs in Chicago in the early 1930's, interviewing  killers like George (Baby Face) Nelson and covering murders and the criminal courts, she worked not for her father's newspaper but for a rival paper, The Chicago Daily News, whose staff members served as models for the characters in the classic Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur comedy "The Front Page."
        In "Ladies of the Press" (Harper & Brothers, 1936), Ishbel Ross wrote, "She sailed along successfully under her own steam, in spite of the professional handicap of being born into a noted newspaper family."
        Josephine Patterson was born in Libertyville, Ill., on Dec. 2, 1913, and educated at the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va. Although her father disapproved of women in journalism, he did approve of women as pilots, and she got her pilot's license at the age of 16. Before her 18th birthday, she was the  youngest pilot flying the mail route between Chicago and St. Louis.
        But Josephine's career as a commercial mail pilot lasted only a few months. At 18, in the midst of her debutante party, she decided to fly with Alicia to India to hunt tigers. Without telling their mother, the two young women hopscotched their way across the world, dancing every night.
        When they arrived in India, Josephine, who was later to become an ardent animal rights activist and naturalist, quickly bagged a tiger.
        Alicia, who was supposed to shoot the tiger, was angry. She told her sister to stay out of the next hunt. So Josephine went on the next hunt carrying only a book. She was sitting in a tree reading when a leopard bounded up behind her. Josephine threw the book and hit the leopard in the nose. Alicia finished it off.
        In 1936, Josephine married Jay Frederick Reeve, a Chicago lawyer she met while covering the courts. At that time she operated a dairy and pig farm that became the Hawthorne-Melody Dairy, a major Illinois enterprise.
        In the mid-1940's, after a divorce, she moved to Dubois, Wyo., bought a stallion from an Indian reservation and began raising horses.
        In 1946, in Red Lodge, Mont., she married Ivan Albright, an artist of the Chicago school who was known for his realistic paintings. The couple traveled extensively, and Mrs. Albright's travels fostered her enthusiasm for geography.  Near the end of her life, she sponsored a statewide geography bee that was held  in every Vermont school district.
        In 1949, Mrs. Albright returned to journalism for three years as the author of a weekly Newsday column, "Life With Junior," which chronicled her foibles and successes in rearing her four children.
        In 1963, she and her husband moved to Woodstock, where she obtained a bachelor of arts degree from Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt.
        Mr. Albright, whose centennial is to be observed next year with retrospectives at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, died in 1983.
        After Alicia Patterson died in 1963, Mrs. Albright helped establish and became a major benefactor of the Alicia Patterson Foundation, which awards fellowships to print journalists and photographers.
        Mrs. Albright was also a supporter of the Pentangle Theater in Woodstock, the River City Arts and White River Opera House in White River Junction, Vt., the Hood Museum in Hanover, N.H., and the Art Institute of Chicago. Dartmouth College named her a Lathrop Fellow in honor of her support for its arts collection.
        Besides her daughter Alice, Mrs. Albright is survived by another daughter, Dinah Albright Rojek of South Woodstock, Vt.; two sons, Joseph Medill Patterson  Albright of Moscow and Adam Medill Albright of Richmond, Mass., 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      