
        Marcia Davenport, a biographer of Mozart and best-selling novelist, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 92 and lived in Pebble Beach,  Calif.
        Mrs. Davenport's last book was her autobiography, "Too Strong for Fantasy" (1967). In a review in The New York Times Book Review, Ellen Moers called it "a  compelling production" and said "the gift for old-fashioned, unadulterated romance which made several of her novels best sellers (and one a Greer Garson movie) does not fail her now." Mrs. Davenport did little writing after the 1970's.
        Her best-known book is her biography "Mozart," which came out in 1932, and has been continuously in print since then, most recently from the University of  Pittsburgh Press.
        When it appeared, Herbert Gorman praised it highly in The New York Times Book Review, writing that Mrs. Davenport "gives a vivid and convincing portrait of the child prodigy who developed into the man-genius, a portrait that does not romanticize Mozart too much and leaves the reader convinced of the reality of the figure with whom he has passed through a career of hard work, poverty, neglect and few (but astounding) triumphs."
        Mrs. Davenport's best-known work of fiction was her best-selling 1942 novel "Valley of Decision," which covers the years 1873 to 1941 and focuses on Mary Rafferty, who comes into the lives of the Scott family of Pittsburgh, owners of the Scott Iron Works, as a maid. The book also weaves the Scotts' personal lives in with steel-industry and United States history. The book was made into a 1945 film, with the same title, starring Greer Garson and Gregory Peck.
        Another of Mrs. Davenport's best-selling novels, "East Side, West Side" (1947), was one of the last works inspired and edited by Maxwell Perkins of Scribner's publishing house. The novel concerned a woman in Manhattan's high society whose marriage is threatened by her husband's infidelities. The 1949 film adaptation starred Barbara Stanwyck, James Mason and Ava Gardner.
        Mrs. Davenport's first novel, "Of Lena Geyer" (1936), was recalled by one reviewer in the 1980's as a "a vivid portrayal of a great opera singer." Her last novel was "The Constant Image" (1960), which described an extramarital affair in Milan.
        Her autobiography has vivid descriptions of music, even of the acoustics in Carnegie Hall years ago. In that book, she praises one particular box on the second tier at Carnegie Hall, saying "Carnegie Hall is glorious," but "nowhere else in the old house is the sonority so total, the instruments, together or individually, so brilliant and penetrating. The sound comes out of the walls and surrounds one like a cloak."
        Marcia Gluck Davenport was a native New Yorker. In various biographical accounts, she refrained from giving her father's name. Her mother, Alma Gluck, rose from humble origins to fame as a soprano.
        Mrs. Davenport wrote in her autobiography that her parents, whose marriage ended in divorce, "were part of the tidal wave of emigration from the Russian Pale and Eastern Europe which in a generation swept a million people, fleeing persecutions, pogroms and conscriptions, onto the shores of Manhattan Island."
        Her mother later married the violinist Efrem Zimbalist. Young Marcia went to  private schools in Pennsylvania and attended Wellesley College. She was on the staff of The New Yorker from 1928 to 1931 before becoming a freelance lecturer,  music critic and commentator as well as an author.
        Mrs. Davenport's first marriage, to Frank D. Clarke, ended in divorce, as did her 1929 marriage to Russell Wheeler Davenport, a novelist who became a prominent editor at Time Inc.
        She is survived by a daughter, Cornelia Davenport Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      