
        Dr. Jane Marion Oppenheimer, a biologist and science historian whose interests ranged from embryos to the physiological effects of weightlessness in  space, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia after a brief illness. She was 84.
        She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emeritus of Biology and History of Science at Bryn Mawr College, where she had taught and done research for more than four decades. But she continued to teach, write, edit and experiment for several more years and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences  in 1992 in recognition of her contributions.
        Many of Dr. Oppenheimer's scientific papers dealt with experimental embryology, the history of embryology, the development of the central nervous system of fishes and the history of science, particularly 18th-century medicine  in Britain.
        Among her books were "Essays in the History of Embryology and Biology" (1967) and "Foundations of Experimental Embryology" (2d edition, 1974). She also edited the English version, in 1986, of "The Autobiography of Karl Ernst von Baer (1792-1876)," about a German-born doctor and anthropologist who had doubts about Darwin's approach to evolution.
        She created one of four American scientific experiments done aboard a Soviet  satellite in the first American-Soviet space venture. Using killifish, a small bony junkfish, she helped analyze the effects of weightlessness on the physiology of fish eggs at five stages of their evolution. The work brought her awards from the two nations in 1975: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Achievement Award and the Soviet Kosmos Award.
        Dr. Oppenheimer also won the Wilbur Cross Medal from the Yale Graduate Alumni Association. She was a president of the American Society of Zoologists and an officer in the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Born in Philadelphia, she was a 1936 graduate of Bryn Mawr and earned a Ph.D. in zoology at Yale University. She returned to Bryn Mawr as an instructor in 1938.
        She leaves no immediate family.
      