
        Suzanne Prou, a French novelist and militant opponent of anti-Semitism, died  in Paris, where she lived, during the night of Dec. 29-30. She was 75.
        Le Monde reported her death on Tuesday, without giving its cause, and called  her "a novelist of bittersweet nostalgia."
        Mrs. Prou (pronounced proo) wrote two dozen novels. The best known is "La Terrasse des Bernardini," or "The Bernardini Terrace," published in 1973. It won the Prix Renaudot, one of several French literary awards her works received.
        Reviewing that book, William Cole wrote in the Saturday Review, "Madame Prou  weaves an incredibly fine net, the strands of which are passion, deceit, sadism, pride, seduction and burning hate." And the New Yorker said that she made "the charged atmosphere of decaying provincial life as fascinating as a drop of pond  water viewed through the lens of a microscope."
        Her first novel, "Les Patapharis," which appeared in France in 1966 and was later published in English as "The Patapharis Affair," won the Prix Femina and was praised by Martin Levin in The New York Times Book Review as a "delicately shadowed work of art." Her last book, "L'Album de Famille," came out last year.
        Mrs. Prou embraced a variety of causes during her life. During the German occupation of France she took a stand against anti-Semitism, helping to produce  an underground newspaper that denounced it. She was subsequently made a chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
        Over the years, she was also an ardent feminist and supporter of human rights. In 1994, in a long program about AIDS that was broadcast on all French television channels, she gave a harrowing account of how her 26-year-old granddaughter, Erica, had died of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome the previous year.
        The novelist was born Suzanne Doreau, the daughter of an army officer and a teacher, in a village near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera. She grew up partly  in Algeria and Indochina, pursued university studies in France -- in Marseilles  and Aix-en-Provence -- received a degree in literature in 1942 and was a schoolteacher for a time.
        Her husband, Charles Prou, died earlier. They married in 1944 and had a daughter, Anne-Francoise.
      