
        Mary Averell Fisk, who championed early-childhood education in 45 years as a  volunteer in the New York City public schools, died on Saturday at her country home in Arden, N.Y. She was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
        The elder daughter of W. Averell Harriman, the former Governor of New York and Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Britain, Mrs. Fisk worked without fanfare through the New York City Volunteer Program, of which she was a founder, and the Public Education Association. The Volunteer Program seeks to identify and tutor  elementary school pupils who are having difficulty with reading and arithmetic.
        Before her death, she was tutoring children at Public School 30 at Lexington  Avenue and 128th Street in Manhattan. For her volunteer efforts, the Y.W.C.A. of New York City cited her as Woman of the Year in 1983 and gave her its Elizabeth  Cutter Morrow Award, for women who have influenced the quality of life in New York.
        Mrs. Fisk was one of the heirs who sued Pamela C. Harriman, now the Ambassador to France, whom her father married in 1971. The heirs charged that Mrs. Harriman squandered millions of dollars from their inheritance. Mr. Harriman, a railroad heir and financier, died in 1986. A settlement was announced last month, but the specifics of the deal were kept confidential.
        Mrs. Fisk was born in Manhattan and graduated from Bennington College in 1939. She was a former trustee of Bard College and the American University in Beirut and served on the New York City Board of Education as a member for District 2 and the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education.
        She was also a member of the Palisades Interstate Park Commission, which oversees the park system's recreational offerings. She took a particular interest in its summer camps for children from the inner city, in conservation education and preservation projects intended to protect the system's thousands of acres of parkland.
        She is survived by two sons, Robert C., of Washington, and Averell H., of Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Kathleen F. Ames of Brookline, Mass.; a sister, Kathleen Mortimer of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren. Her husband, Dr. Shirley C. Fisk, died in 1979.
        Correction:  January 17, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary last Wednesday about Mary Averell Fisk, who championed early-childhood education in 45 years as a volunteer in the New York City public schools, misstated the name of an organization she helped found. It is the New York School Volunteer Program, not the New York City Volunteer Program.
      