
        Irene Arnold, a lawyer and teacher who spent her life in the service of the retarded and other victims of circumstance, like war and persecution, died on Jan. 4 at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. A Clinton resident, she was 88.
        Mrs. Arnold was the founder of Retarded Infants Services, a nonprofit agency  that she headed from 1956 to 1972. The Manhattan agency, which has since been renamed the Center for Family Support, provides services and volunteers to help  families keep seriously retarded and handicapped children in the home, a novel approach at the center's founding.
        Mrs. Arnold later expanded services to find foster parents for children whose families could not care for them.
        After leaving the agency in 1972, Mrs. Arnold worked for the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. In 1977, she joined the New York State Department of Mental Retardation as a human-rights officer.
        Finally, as a hearing officer, she listened to the "not in my backyard" objections from neighbors over the placing of group homes for the retarded. She  retired in 1980.
        Irene Lowy was born on the Lower East Side and graduated from New York University. While teaching high school English, she attended Brooklyn Law School at night. With her law degree, she opened a small practice, but had little enthusiasm for cases of money-minded clients. She found her calling during the London Blitz in World War II, when she did the legal work that took hundreds of  children away from the air raids to safety in the United States on behalf of Eleanor Roosevelt's Committee for the Care of European Children.
        She subsequently went to Europe working for the American Friends Service Committee, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration and the Joint Distribution Committee. She joined teams of pediatricians and social workers who collected uprooted children and sent them to the United States.
        She also rescued children from Buchenwald and recounted her experiences at the camps in a memoir in the collection of the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
        Mrs. Arnold's husband, Dr. Newton Arnold, died in 1979. They had no children.
      