
        Judith Kaplan Eisenstein, an author, musicologist and composer, died yesterday of a heart attack in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., where she was being treated for a broken hip. She was 86 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        The oldest daughter of Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan, the founder of the Reconstructionist branch of Judaism, Dr. Eisenstein was the first woman to have  a bat mitzvah, in 1922.
        No thunder sounded," she said in 1992, recalling the ceremony. "No lightning struck."
        But opening to women the bar mitzvah rite that had long marked the passage of Jewish males into religious adulthood proved to be the first of many changes broadening the role of women in Judaism, including in recent years their ordination as rabbis.
        Today the bat mitzvah ceremony, usually carried out when girls are 12, is an  established practice within the Conservative, Reform and Reconstructionist branches of Judaism, and parallel celebrations are common in some quarters of Orthodox Judaism as well.
        From 1929 to 1954, Dr. Eisenstein taught music education and the history of Jewish music at Jewish Theological Seminary's Teacher's Institute, now known as  the Albert A. List College of Jewish Studies in Manhattan.
        While there she published a Jewish songbook for children, "Gateway to Jewish  Song," which was followed by other books of Jewish music and musical history for young people.  From 1942 to 1974, she wrote seven cantatas on Jewish themes, among them the frequently performed, "What Is Torah," which she wrote with her husband, Rabbi Ira Eisenstein.
        In 1959, at the age of 50, Dr. Eisenstein, who had earned a master's degree in music education at Columbia University's Teachers College, began work for her Ph.D. at the School of Sacred Music of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of  Religion in New York. After receiving her degree, she taught there from 1966 to  1979, teaching as well at the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia.
        The smallest branch of Judaism, Reconstructionism views Judaism as what Dr. Eisenstein's father, Rabbi Kaplan, called the "evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people," emphasizing the cultural and moral heritage of the Jewish people but not traditional supernatural and theistic beliefs.
        Dr. Eisenstein, who was born on Sept. 10, 1909, studied at the Institute of Musical Art, now the Juilliard School. An early marriage ended in divorce and in 1934 she married Rabbi Eisenstein, the assistant rabbi at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the Manhattan synagogue that her father headed.
        She collaborated with her husband on five of her cantatas. In February 1952,  on the eve of a Jewish Music Festival in New York, Dr. Eisenstein defended the idea of a distinctive Jewish music. While Jews had borrowed much musically from  the nations and peoples they had lived among, she wrote in The New York Times, the music of Jews "bears the unmistakable stamp of their own peculiar wistfulness, puritanism, or wry humor."
        When she was 82, 12 years past the biblical life span of 70, Dr. Eisenstein had a second bat mitzvah, at which she was also honored by feminist and Jewish leaders, including Betty Friedan, Letty Cottin Pogrebin, Ruth W. Messinger, Elizabeth Holtzman, Rabbi Rachel Cowan and Blu Greenberg.
        At that time, Dr. Eistenstein expressed disappointment that bat mitzvah ceremonies, like bar mitzvahs, were often overshadowed by lavish parties. "Bat mitzvah began not just as a statement of feminism," she said, "but as a statement of dedication to something larger than oneself."
        In addition to her husband, Dr. Eisenstein is survived by two daughters, Miriam Eisenstein of Gaithersburg, Md., and Ann Eisenstein of Manhattan; three sisters, Hadassah Musher and Selma Goldman, both of Manhattan, and Naomi Wenner  of Chevy Chase, Md., and one grandchild.
      