
        Lola Beltran, the soulful Mexican singer whose achingly emotional renditions  of mariachi ballads made her known as Lola the Great to generations of Latin Americans, died on Sunday night in Mexico City. During a career that spanned five decades, she made a point of refusing to discuss her age, but she was believed to be in her mid-60's.
        The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Maria Elena Leal, said in newspaper reports.
        Among Mexicans and Mexican-Americans, Lola la Grande was held in high esteem for her ability to capture and reproduce in her music what they consider the melancholy essence of life. Song after song found her confronting suffering, loneliness, abandonment or loss with an equanimity that her millions of listeners in the Spanish-speaking world found inspiring and deeply moving.
        In a tribute to Ms. Beltran written in 1994, the Mexican novelist Carlos Fuentes declared that "passion and desire, joy and risk, tenderness and the cry  for existence are the wings of this dove that is the voice of our lady Lola Beltran." Like most Mexicans, he added, "I have spent my life living and writing and loving and traveling with the voice of Lola Beltran close to me, on records, over the airwaves, but above all in the soundtrack of memory."
        Ms. Beltran suffered a heart attack on March 16 and had been hospitalized, but she vowed to keep singing "as long as the body holds up." Revived by doctors after her heart had stopped beating for a reported seven minutes, she remarked,  "I fought death with all my might, and God in His infinite compassion has let me live for a little while longer."
        Though Ms. Beltran's devotees ranged from presidents to peasants, she was especially admired by her fellow musicians. Her remarkable sense of phrasing, inflection and drama influenced a whole generation of younger vocalists, both men and women, inside and out of Mexico.
        "Singers don't come any more real than Lola Beltran," Linda Ronstadt said in  1988 after releasing an album that included several songs associated with Ms. Beltran. "She's a world-class singer, up there rubbing shoulders with Billie Holiday and Edith Piaf."
        In both her private and professional life, Ms. Beltran played the role of diva to the hilt. She dressed extravagantly, was fond of furs and ornate jewels  and relished the deference her admirers showered on her. She consequently earned a second nickname, "La Reina," or "The Queen."
        Onstage, whether performing for Mexican immigrants at county fairs in Texas or at state dinners for Dwight D. Eisenhower, Charles de Gaulle or the King of Spain, her bearing was indeed regal. She would halt her orchestra in mid-measure with an authoritative wave of the hand, or in moments of great emotion clutch the rebozo, or shawl, that was her trademark.
        Her origins, however, were modest. Maria Lucila Beltran was born in the northwestern Mexican state of Sinaloa, where her father, Pedro Beltran, was a mine manager. Her mother, a housewife who liked to sing around the house, exposed her daughter both to the hits of the day and older standards.
        In her early years, Ms. Beltran sang at family gatherings or to the Carmelite nuns who educated her. But in 1953, with her mother, Maria de los Angeles Ruiz,  in tow as her chaperone, Ms. Beltran moved to Mexico City with hopes of entering show business. She took a secretarial job at XEW, a radio station known throughout Mexico as the home of the Mariachi Vargas, the most popular group of  the genre.
        Ms. Beltran later would tell how she pestered the group until they gave her a chance to show off her vocal skills. The purity of her voice and her masterly technique immediately won them over, and within a year she was the star of her own program and the most popular female mariachi singer in Mexico. "Even now, every time I go by the station, I make the sign of the cross," she said in a 1988 interview, as a gesture of gratitude for good fortune.
        Through the Mariachi Vargas, Ms. Beltran also met Tomas Mendez, the songwriter who would go on to compose many of her most successful songs. Several of those numbers, "Cucurrucucu Paloma" and "Tres Dias" in particular, became hits everywhere -- the United States included -- and made Ms. Beltran a star throughout the Spanish-speaking world.
        "When I hear a song, I want it to tell me something," Ms. Beltran said in the same interview. "It can tell the story of a great love or of a tremendous sadness, but it has to have emotion and truth. The song has to make it worth my  while to sing it."
        Though many of Ms. Beltran's contemporaries have long since faded from the scene, she maintained her appeal among those who consider themselves hip and contemporary. The Spanish film director Pedro Almodovar, for instance, used Ms.  Beltran's version of "Soy Infeliz," or "I Am Unhappy," as the opening theme of his 1988 hit, "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown."
        All told, Ms. Beltran recorded more than 100 albums, with total sales estimated in the tens of millions. She also appeared in more than 50 movies, most of them Mexican musicals of indifferent quality that owed their commercial  success to her remarkable popularity and her dark, keening voice.
        Ms. Beltran is survived by her daughter, born of her marriage to the bullfighter and actor Alfredo Leal.
      