
        Maria A. Rudzinska, a protozoologist who used electron microscopy to uncover  the eating habits of the parasite that causes malaria, died last Friday at her home in Manhattan. Dr. Rudzinska, who was an emeritus professor of parasitology  at Rockefeller University, was 92.
        She came to Rockefeller in 1951, at a time when the use of the electron microscope in biology was in its infancy. She trained with the cell biologists Keith Porter and George Palade and then joined the laboratory of William Trager, a leading parasitologist.
        It was in Dr. Trager's lab that she used the microscope to show that the malaria protozoa, a one-celled organism that enters the human body through mosquito bites, consumes red blood cells by ingesting portions of them into parts of its cell called vacuoles.
        "It is a common way for cells to feed," said Dr. Trager, now an emeritus professor of parasitology at Rockefeller. "But no one had guessed that this was  the way malaria parasites feed."
        Dr. Trager said her work also confirmed that the parasite entered the blood cell before eating it. "There was some controversy as to whether the parasite was inside the cell or not," he said. "At the level of the light microscope, it  was not easy to be sure."
        Her research helped scientists find ways to treat the disease, he said.
        The malaria parasite was not Dr. Rudzinska's favorite protozoa, however, Dr.  Trager said. That distinction fell to an organism called tokophrya. Unlike most  single-cell organisms, which live a rather mundane life restricted largely to dividing, tokophrya, she discovered, has specific life cycles.
        "As a baby, it's a swimming little thing," Dr. Trager said. "But then it settles down, forms a stalk, and metamorphoses into quite a different-looking creature." It also has a reproductive cycle, and a period of old age.
        "The thing she found was, if you give it a lot to eat, this process of aging  was greatly accelerated," Dr. Trager said. Overfed, tokophrya grew old faster and died earlier. The organism has been used by researchers who study the aging  process.
        Dr. Rudzinska, who was so identified with the protozoa that she once received a post card at the laboratory addressed only to "Dr. Tokophrya," occasionally had difficulty finding specimens, which proliferate in fresh water ponds. After  one steady source on Long Island dried up, she found some closer to home -- in a fountain on the Rockefeller campus.
        Dr. Rudzinska became an emeritus professor in 1975, but was still active in the lab. In her later years, she worked with Harvard researchers to discover how the bacterium that causes Lyme disease is carried by deer ticks.
        She was born in Dabrowa, Poland, and earned advanced degrees in biology and zoology from the Jagiellonian University in Cracow. During World War II, she taught at the Jan Kazimierz University in Lvov, and participated in underground  teaching during the Nazi occupation.
        After the war she came to the United States with her husband, Alexander Rudzinski, an international lawyer who was a member of the Polish delegation to  the fledgling United Nations. When the Communists took over the Polish Government, however, Mr. Rudzinski resigned, and the couple were granted asylum  in the United States.
        Her husband died about five years ago.
      