
        Eleanor Clark, an author best known for the evocative range of her accounts of oystering in Brittany and of the streets of Rome, died on Friday at a retirement home in Boston. She was 82.
        Miss Clark, the widow of Robert Penn Warren, was a master stylist whose works won critical acclaim and inspired a devoted private following. Her writings included reviews, essays, children's books and novels.
        In a review in The New York Times, Anatole Broyard called a 1975 reissue of  her 1952 book "Rome and the Villa" "perhaps the finest book ever to be written about a city."
        But the most telling tributes came from the generations of American and other tourists who followed her steps -- page by dogeared page -- through the city, marveling at each architectural feature that triggered her soaring ruminations on everything from ancient history and early Roman poetry to modern social conditions.
        Although she was sometimes described as a travel writer, "Rome and a Villa" is not a traditional travel book. Nor is "The Oysters of Locmariaquer," a somewhat similar book that used oystering in Brittany as a springboard to an excursion through history and culture, and won the 1964 National Book Award for  arts and letters. Each reflected deep scholarship and a lively intuition.
        Both in those books and in her norels, including "Baldur's Gate" (1970) and "Camping Out" (1986), Miss Clark seemed especially moved by landscape, an interest that was grounded in her childhood amid the rolling hills around Roxbury, Conn., her daughter, the poet Rosanna Clark, said yesterday.
        Born in Los Angeles, Miss Clark was a descendant of early New England settlers. Her father was a mining engineer, and she seems to have inherited her  literary and scholarly bent from her mother, a Vassar graduate steeped in comparative literature.
        Miss Clark also attended Vassar and spent much of her time during her college years on visits to Manhattan. She later became a conspicuous part of the city's  intellectual left, writing for The Partisan Review, The New Republic and The Nation. She was viewed as independent-minded with a youthful social conscience and regarded herself for a time as "a Trotskyite sympathizer."
        During a trip to Mexico in 1937 she became a translator for Trotsky and was married to one of his secretaries for a brief time.
        During World War II she worked for the Office of Strategic Services in Washington, interviewing French and Italian diplomats. It was at a party at Katherine Anne Porter's home in the spring of 1944 that she met Mr. Warren, then in the last stages of an unhappy first marriage.
        Although she recounted later that she had pursued him, once confiding that it had taken all her guile to get a simple good-night kiss, at the first meeting he seems to have been more taken with her than she with him.  She left the party with one of his friends, the poet Denis Devlin, and, as Mr. Warren later railed  in recounting the meeting to his children, "a bunch of other drunken Irishmen."
        After their marriage in 1952, they traveled widely and found a formula for pursuing their separate literary careers. Working in different studies of the converted 17th-century barn that served as their home in Fairfield, Conn., they  wrote from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M. daily, she using the typewriter in the companionship of their cat, he writing in longhand accompanied by their dog.
        When Miss Clark was stricken with macular degeneration and almost totally lost her eyesight (a setback described in "Eyes, Etc.," her 1977 memoir), her husband began reading to her at night. He died in 1989.
        In addition to her daughter, of Needham, Mass., she is survived by a son, Gabriel, a sculptor, of Wood River Junction, R.I., and four grandchildren.
      