
        Dorothy Maynor, a highly regarded soprano recitalist who founded the Harlem School of the Arts, died on Monday at the Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. She was 85 and lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        Miss Maynor, whose career helped open the way for black artists like Marian Anderson and Leontyne Price, possessed a voice that the New Grove Dictionary of  American Music describes as "a soaring, belllike soprano capable of exquisite musical effects, supported by a sincere and ardent temperament." She took New York by storm in a sold-out recital at Town Hall in 1939 and pursued a successful recital career.
        Although she committed more than 100 operatic roles to memory, she never appeared on an opera stage; there were no such opportunities for a black artist  in the late 1930's and the 1940's, when she was in her prime. (Miss Anderson, the first black singer to appear at the Metropolitan Opera, did not make her debut there until 1955.)
        Miss Maynor was born in Norfolk, Va., and as a child she sang in the choir of her father's church. She entered Hampton Institute (now Hampton University) in Hampton, Va., intending to become a teacher of home economics, but she also joined the renowned Hampton Choir, with which she toured Europe in 1929. On the  advice of the choir director, R. Nathaniel Dett, she changed her major to music  and earned a bachelor's degree in 1933.
        After being awarded a scholarship, she studied choir direction at the Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J., where she received a second bachelor's degree in music and choral conducting in 1935. While on tour in New England with the school's choir, she was encouraged by several wealthy benefactors to pursue a concert career. Three years of private study in New York followed, with Wilfried Klamroth and John Alan Haughton. At this time she changed the spelling of her name from Mainor.
        After hearing her sing at the 1939 Berkshire Symphonic Festival at Tanglewood in western Massachusetts, the conductor Serge Koussevitzky reportedly jumped up  and down, shouting: "It is a miracle! It is a musical revelation! The world must hear her!" Koussevitzky, who called Miss Maynor "a native Flagstad," immediately used her in recordings with the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
        She made her formal debut at Town Hall in Manhattan later that year, on Nov.  19, in a widely anticipated event that was sold out more than a week in advance. Olin Downes, reviewing the concert for The New York Times, hailed her as "one of the most remarkable soprano voices of the rising generation," called her voice "phenomenal for its range, character and varied expressive resources."
        Miss Maynor began touring extensively in the United States, often appearing as a soloist with leading orchestras. She made her Carnegie Hall debut in 1940 with the New York Philharmonic, conducted by John Barbirolli. In the late 40's she toured Latin America and Europe. She often performed at benefits to aid the  war effort and black causes.
        She sang at the Presidential Inaugural galas for Harry S. Truman in 1949 and  Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953. In 1952, by special permission of the Daughters of the American Revolution, she appeared as a soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra at Constitution Hall in the first commercial appearance there by a black artist since Miss Anderson had been barred from performing at the hall in  1939. (Miss Anderson subsequently gave benefit performances at the hall.)
        Miss Maynor recorded popular arias and songs for RCA Victor. Although she never appeared on the opera stage, she recorded the role of Leonore in "Fidelio" under Arturo Toscanini.
        In 1963, she retired to work with her husband, the Rev. Shelby Rooks, at St.  James Presbyterian Church at West 141st Street and St. Nicholas Avenue in Harlem, where he was pastor. That year she founded the Harlem School of the Arts. The school offered classes in music, ballet, modern dance, drama and art to poor children for minimal fees, sometimes as little as 50 cents a lesson, and lent or rented instruments to students who did not own one.
        "In most schools, if you don't have a piano, you can't take lessons," Miss Maynor told one interviewer. "But we say, 'Good, you come here and practice.' "  She served as executive director of the school until 1979 and also taught there. In 1977 she raised more than $2 million to build a new facility for the school,  which originally served 20 children and now has more than 1,000 students.
        "What I dream of is changing the image held by the children," she said on another occasion. "We've made them believe everything beautiful is outside the community. We would like them to make beauty in our community."
        Her work with the school is recounted in "Dorothy Maynor and the Harlem School of the Arts: The Diva and the Dream" (Edwin Mellen Press, 1993), by William F. Rogers Jr.
        She received honorary doctorates from many schools, including Howard University, Westminster Choir College, Oberlin College, Carnegie-Mellon University and Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C..
        In 1975, she became the first black member of the Metropolitan Opera board.
        She is survived by her husband.
        Correction:  March 2, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary last Saturday about the soprano Dorothy Maynor credited her with  one recording incorrectly. She did not record the role of Leonore in "Fidelio" with Toscanini.
      