
        Helen Bunce, who knitted so many mittens she didn't know what to do unless she was knitting more mittens, died on Feb. 24 at a nursing home in Watertown, N.Y., where she was known as the Mitten Lady. She was 86 and had been knitting mittens until a few days before her death.
        Mrs. Bunce had been a legend in Watertown and in international church circles for decades, although until December only a few people knew she was the Mitten Lady whose anonymous handmade donations to an annual church clothing drive had spread her fame far and wide.
        Since 1948, when the third-grade Sunday school class at the Emmanuel Congregational Church in Watertown established a special Christmas tree to collect clothing for poor children, Mrs. Bunce had spent every otherwise spare moment knitting away.
        "She could knit in her sleep," her daughter, Helen McDonald, said yesterday,  estimating that her mother had knitted at least 4,000 pairs of mittens over the  last 47 years, and probably a lot more.
        "She didn't keep records in the early years," Mrs. McDonald said, "but some years she did more than 200."
        For all the mittens she turned out, the Mitten Lady sobriquet was somewhat misleading. Mrs. Bunce, who knew that little heads as well as hands needed protection against the cold, knitted a matching cap for every pair of mittens and also turned out scarves.
        The sets, which included a handwritten tag saying "God Loves You, and So Do I," were distributed to various churches and charities in Watertown and through  Church World Service, the Protestant relief agency, to poor children across the  nation and abroad.
        As word of Mrs. Bunce's work spread, people across the country began sending  her yarn in care of the church, and she kept a scrapbook of thank-you notes from children she had helped and photographs showing some of them wearing her handiwork. Like the donated packages of yarn, the notes, addressed simply to the Mitten Lady, were delivered to the church and then passed on to her.
        Mrs. Bunce, who lived in Watertown most of her life, carried her knitting wherever she went, clicking away whenever she found a spare moment. Her mittens, which always included two contrasting colors in striking designs, came in three  sizes, with the colors becoming darker as the sizes increased.
        Although she suffered from osteoporosis so painful that she found it difficult to sit in a wheelchair in her last months, Mrs. Bunce, who had taught  herself to knit lying down after entering the nursing home, insisted on being taken to the church in December to make her usual surreptitious donation of her  year's production.
        This time her cover was blown. She was introduced to the congregation as the  Mitten Lady, and the woman who had once explained that she labored anonymously because the purpose of her work was to help poor children and not to have people say, "Oh, that's wonderful," had to endure a five-minute ovation.
        Then she went back to the nursing home and continued her knitting. Mrs. Bunce, who always made it a point to start a new pair of mittens or a cap as soon as one was completed (on the assumption, she once explained, that God would not let anything happen to her as long as she had unfinished work), apparently knew the end was near. When she died, her daughter said, her needles were empty.
        Mrs. Bunce's husband of 67 years, Karl, died on Feb. 27. In addition to her daughter, of Alexandria Bay, N.Y., she is survived by two sons, Roy, of Strasbourg, France, and Jack, of Watertown; 11 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      