
        Minnie Pearl, the raucously funny radio, television and stage personality who was known as the queen of country comedy, died yesterday at a hospital in Nashville. She was 83.
        No cause of death was immediately given, but Miss Pearl had been admitted to  the hospital nine days ago because of what was described as "a brain seizure or  stroke." She had given up performing in 1991 after suffering a stroke.
        In the 1930's, Miss Pearl, whose real name was Sarah Cannon, created her classic backwoods character, Cousin Minnie Pearl, a wisecracking storyteller who wore a flowered straw hat with its $1.98 price tag attached and a thrift-shop cotton-print dress. The character was famous for her signature greeting, a high-pitched "How-dee! I'm just proud to be here!" and for her exuberant chatter about "ketchin' a feller."
        A mainstay of "The Grand Ole Opry" for more than 50 years, Miss Pearl's monologues were built around strings of hoary jokes so corny they would make an  audience groan if told by anybody else. The jokes were often depicted as true events from the fictional rural town of Grinder's Switch. This technique of incorporating old jokes into supposedly "true" vignettes was later adapted by the monologuist Garrison Keillor to create the news and gossip he reported from  his fictional hometown, Lake Wobegon, Minn.
        In real life, however, Miss Pearl was not the archetypal hayseed she portrayed for decades. Born in Centerville, Tenn., Sarah Ophelia Colley was the daughter of a well-to-do businessman in the lumber industry. As a girl, she  was only dimly aware of country music. Her mother, known as Aunt Fannie Collie,  played the organ in a local church. Miss Pearl, who aspired to be an actress and dancer, attended Ward-Belmont College, a fashionable finishing school in Nashville.
        After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools. She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
        "To help publicize the show in each town," she later recalled, "I would appear before the Lion's Club and other groups. In return for letting me announce my show, I'd do a couple of minutes' entertainment for them. I'd do an  interpretation of a country girl, Minnie Pearl."
        When her father died, Miss Pearl settled in Centerville to take care of her ailing mother. At a meeting of local bankers, she revived her character and dreamed up the town of Grinder's Switch, which was actually the name of a railroad crossing three miles from her hometown.
        At the meeting it was suggested that she audition for "The Grand Ole Opry." Because the producers worried that some listeners might find her hayseed character offensive, her first performance, for which she was paid $10, took place after 11 P.M. Miss Pearl quickly became one of the show's most popular performers, and in 1940 she was made a permanent member of the Opry, remaining until 1991 when the stroke she suffered at the time left her partially paralyzed.
        When Miss Pearl was 34, she married Henry Cannon, a pilot who managed her career and flew her and her co-workers to their many shows. Over the years, Miss Pearl toured with most of the leading country-music stars and appeared at Carnegie Hall in 1947. She was named Nashville's Woman of the Year in 1965 and inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 1975. She recorded albums for several labels and in 1966 had a top-10 country single, "Giddyup -- Go Answer."
        Discussing her alter ego, Miss Pearl once said, "Minnie Pearl is uncomplicated. She's apple pie and clothes dried in the sun and the smell of fresh bread baking. I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend. When I'm on stage, I'm just plain Minnie Pearl wearing my battered old straw hat and battered shoes. The price tag on my hat seems to be symbolic of all human frailty. There's old Minnie Pearl standing on stage in her best dress, telling everyone how proud she is to be there."
      