
        Molly Keane, an Anglo-Irish novelist who had ridden to enough hounds, attended enough hunt balls and listened to enough below-stairs gossip by the time she was 17 to sustain two literary careers three decades apart, died on Monday at her cliffside home in Ardmore, County Waterford, Ireland. She was 91.
        Although she was best known for her novel "Good Behavior," a finalist for the 1981 Booker Prize, its publication represented the resumption of a career she had abandoned after the death of her husband more than 30 years earlier.
        It was a career that had been born and remained grounded in her childhood experiences.
        Growing up in a grand home in County Wexford, where her Protestant English father was a noted fox hunter and her Irish mother was a lapsed poet and Italian literary scholar who wrote occasional reviews, was not entirely pleasant for Mrs. Kean.
        But although her own sister once described her as an unloved child, her childhood served her well, providing the swirling fox-hunting background and social intrigue she drew on for more than a dozen novels and five plays.
        An accomplished horsewoman herself, Mrs. Keane never apologized for her own youthful enchantment with a world circumscribed by riding, dancing and clothes.  Indeed, she began writing as a teen-ager, she once acknowledged, to supplement her dress allowance.
        She also took the precaution of using a pseudonym, M. J. Farrell, a name she  spied on a board outside an Irish pub while riding home from a hunt.
        "It would have been death to be known as a writer," she once explained.
        Although the real identity of M. J. Farrell had long since become known in Irish and English literary circles, it was not until "Good Behavior" that Mrs. Keane, whose original name had been Mary Nesta Skrine, felt secure in publishing under a name of her own.
        After the publication of "Good Behavior," her earlier works, including "Conversation Piece" and "Rising Tide," were reissued, and Mrs. Keane added two  further novels, "Time After Time," (Knopf, 1983) and "Loving and Giving," published in the United States by Dutton as "Queen Lear."
        Mrs. Keane, who mined the same vein of childhood experiences time after time, inevitably found new nuggets of insight or intrigue. Unlike her earlier works, which she once suggested were written to portray a life she had wished for herself, her later novels had more bite, depicting the darker side of life among the disenfranchised Anglo-Irish gentry. ("Good Behavior" begins as the main character is genteely murdering her own mother.)
        As a young adult, Mrs. Keane continued her childhood interest in parties and  gaiety, marrying a young Irishman, Bobby Keane, four years her junior, but only  after living with him for five years.
        In her mid-30's she added plays to her repertory, writing five with John Perry, including "Spring Meeting," which was directed by John Gielgud in 1938 and provided Margaret Rutherford with her first starring role.
        When she was 40, her husband died, and Mrs. Keane, who had two daughters, Sally and Virginia, was so grief-stricken she found she no longer had the zest for writing. She did manage to turn out two more novels, but with the exception  of a play that was panned in 1961, she wrote nothing until "Good Behavior" marked her return to form in 1981.
        She is survived by her daughters.
      