
        Greer Garson, the actress who epitomized a noble, wise and courageous wife in some of the sleekest and most sentimental American movies of the 1940's, died yesterday morning at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas. She was 92.
        Miss Garson, who had a history of heart problems, had lived at the long-term-care hospital for the last three years, according to Ann Harper, a spokeswoman at the hospital.
        Miss Garson became an instant success as a captivating young wife in the sentimental 1939 film "Goodbye, Mr. Chips." She was nominated for an Academy Award for this first film performance and quickly became one of the 10 most popular Hollywood stars.
        She received five more Oscar nominations in five years for self-sacrificing portrayals in "Blossoms in the Dust" (1941), "Mrs. Miniver" (1942), "Madame Curie" (1943), "Mrs. Parkington" (1944) and "The Valley of Decision" (1945). She won the best actress Oscar for "Mrs. Miniver," in which she superbly symbolized  the spirit and virtue of a British homemaker in wartime.
        With much of the earth ravaged by World War II, the Scotch-Irish actress with titian hair, blue-green eyes and alabaster complexion filled a need for a dignified and intrepid wife-mother figure. Her portrayals were so proper that one sequence in "Random Harvest," a major dramatic hit of 1942, created a sensation when she was allowed to wear kilts and show her shapely legs. Otherwise, she was heavily costumed and wholesomely typecast by Louis B. Mayer.
        After the war, because of inferior vehicles and changing tastes, she was unable to escape the mold.
        Nonetheless, in her Broadway debut in 1958, Miss Garson won acclaim in a comedy, succeeding Rosalind Russell as the devil-may-care "Auntie Mame." Two years later, Miss Garson received a seventh Oscar nomination for her portrayal of Eleanor Roosevelt in the film "Sunrise at Campobello."
        While preparing for "Auntie Mame" she told an interviewer: "I'm tired of playing four-handkerchief heroines in crinoline roles. I think there's a little  bit of 'Auntie Mame' in every woman -- a kind of counterpart to the 'Walter Mitty' in every man. I think Mrs. Miniver and Auntie Mame would have gotten along real well. Mame's really a doll. She promoted a liveliness and kindliness, and isn't that the best one can do?"
        Early on, the actress enjoyed peerless popularity. Nine of her first 11 movies opened at Radio City Music Hall and played at that premier movie palace a total of 64 weeks. In 1978, Vincent Canby of The New York Times offered a tribute in which he deemed Miss Garson "emblematic of everything the Music Hall offered its patrons."
        "In her high-toned M-G-M pictures she was invariably serene, polite, elegant  in a slightly unreal way, too good to be true, always prepared to meet any emergency and staunchly middle-class," Mr. Canby continued. "Her pictures were neither inhibited by the Hall nor did they ever look tacky amid all that splendor. Actress and theater were one."
        Greer Garson was born on Sept. 29, 1903, in County Down, Northern Ireland, of Presbyterian parents. Her father, George Garson, a businessman, died soon after, and she and her mother, Nina, moved to London. The name Greer was a contraction  of MacGregor, her mother's ancestral name.
        She was a frail girl with chronic bronchitis who was comfortable with her many adult relatives but uneasy with people her own age. She recalled a childhood of scrimping, study and an abiding ambition to act despite her family's pressure on her to teach. She received full scholarships from a county  school and from the University of London, where she won honors studying French and 18th-century literature in an accelerated course, with secretarial classes for a backup.
        Miss Garson obtained a secure post as a market researcher for a London advertising firm, but gave it up to study acting with the Birmingham Repertory Theater during two years in the provinces, where she received increasingly
        favorable notices.
        She polished her craft during two years in the West End, starring in eight plays, including Shaw's "Too True to Be Good," and became one of Britain's ablest young stage actresses. Most of the plays were flops, but she was praised  for her talent, drive and professionalism. Envious associates dubbed her Ca-Reer Garson, a tag that trailed her to Hollywood.
        In one theater audience in 1938 was the head of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Riveted  by her performance, Mayer persuaded her to sign a movie contract for an uncommonly high starting salary of $500 a week. She confirmed his faith by her performance in "Goodbye, Mr. Chips" and further confirmed her skill in an effervescent 1940 film version of Jane Austen's novel "Pride and Prejudice," co-starring Laurence Olivier.
        Miss Garson then entered her wartime phase of idealized helpmates, appearing  regularly with Walter Pidgeon. She inherited the mantle of M-G-M's First Lady from Norma Shearer, who had retired, and was indelibly typecast as what she ironically called "Metro's Glorified Mrs."
        Her postwar, mostly unsuccessful, movies included "Adventure" (1946), co-starring Clark Gable; "That Forsythe Woman" (1949), with Errol Flynn and Mr.  Pidgeon, and the cameo role of Calpurnia in "Julius Caesar" (1953). In later years, she co-produced several plays in New York, including "On Golden Pond."
        Miss Garson's marriages to Edward A. A. Snelson, a British civil servant, and to Richard Ney, an actor 10 years her junior who had played her son in "Mrs. Miniver," ended in divorce. In 1949, she married E. E. (Buddy) Fogelson, an oil  developer and industrialist. The Fogelsons had homes in Dallas and Los Angeles and a ranch outside Santa Fe, N.M., where they were civic leaders. Mr. Fogelson  died in 1987.
        The actress's recreations included raising cattle and domestic animals as well as gardening and fishing. She continued to support the performing arts, giving $10 million to Southern Methodist University in Dallas for the Greer Garson Theater, which opened in September 1992. Asked once if she missed Hollywood, she replied: "No. I have at long last learned to be interested in where I am."
        She is survived by a stepson, Gayle D. Fogelson, of Dallas.
      