
        Barbara McLean, an Oscar-winning Hollywood film editor whose influence at 20th Century-Fox extended far beyond the cutting room, died on March 28 at a convalescent home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 92 and had lived in Newport Beach since her retirement in 1969 after 20 years as head of the studio's editing division.
        One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place.
        For decades it was in the chair next to Darryl F. Zanuck, the Fox studio chief, who relied so much on the judgment of the woman he called Bobby that he rarely made a major decision on anything from costumes to casting without consulting her first.
        And when he made a decision, arguments tended to cease. Studio executives knew that when Mr. Zanuck prefaced a statement with "Bobby says . . . " he was not expressing an opinion but announcing a decision.
        There was the time in 1936, for example, when Mr. Zanuck and other executives were watching screen tests, trying to decide between two actors for a leading role. When the projection room lights went up, Mr. Zanuck turned to Miss McLean  as usual, and as usual she did not disappoint: Don Ameche was good, she said, but the other fellow looked more dashing in the movie's costumes.
        "Bobby says . . . " Mr. Zanuck said, and Tyrone Power got the part in "Lloyd's of London" that made him a star.
        Miss McLean, whose scores of credits included "All About Eve," "12 O'Clock High," "The Robe" and "Tobacco Road," won an Academy Award in 1944 for her work  on the documentary "Wilson," a biography of Woodrow Wilson.
        But for all her undisputed skills, Miss McLean had to break through entrenched sexual stereotypes to get a job in the first place.
        Although other women worked as editors in the 1930's, including Dorothy Spencers, Marjorie Fowler, Margaret Booth and Ada Warren, editing was considered man's work.
        In the division of Hollywood labor, women might work as actresses, seamstresses, secretaries or even film laboratory technicians, where their nimble fingers were even deemed to give them an advantage in the delicate task of cutting and splicing film to a male editor's specifications.
        Miss McLean's fingers were as nimble as anyone's, and no wonder. She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924. Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.
        Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba." Mr. Webb died several years ago.
        She is survived by a stepson, James Webb, of Payson, Ariz.
      