
        Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.
        She died after a long illness, said her son Gregory Jay Smith.
        Miss Howes, who was also a short-story writer, essayist, translator and editor, was the author of eight books of poetry and was a finalist for the poetry award in two earlier years.
        Her "Collected Poems 1945-1990" (University of Arkansas Press, 1995) was praised in December by Robert Richman, the poetry editor of The New Criterion, in a review in The New York Times Book Review.
        He applauded her "formal adeptness and lyric skill" and her "ability to sketch domestic scenes," but he said her "real calling card" was her knack for "extreme-but-just" metaphors. He called them reminiscent of the English poet John Donne and others of the group of 17th-century English lyric poets known as  the metaphysical poets.
        In one poem in the 1995 collection, "The Lost Girl," Miss Howes likened a field to a decade. In another, she described a cat as "mysterious as gauze."
        That collection also contains the following lines, which Miss Howes wrote in  praise of the intellect, and which led Mr. Richman to write that "few celebrate mind better":
        Mind has mattered so much, and knowledge
        Is bottomless as the golden bowl
        In the myth, ceaseless as light, grave,
        Unemptiable as the sea. . . .
        To know, to understand
        Has been my passion and addiction.
        Miss Howes was born in New York, adopted into a well-to-do Massachusetts family and reared chiefly in a suburb of Boston, Chestnut Hill, where she attended Beaver Country Day School. She graduated from Bennington College in Vermont in 1937. While she was a student, she sought, and learned, the identity  of her natural parents and found that her ancestors included Anne Bradstreet, the 17th-century American poet.
        After college, Miss Howes worked briefly for the Southern Tenant Farmers Union in Mississippi and then lived in Greenwich Village and edited a literary magazine, Chimera, from 1943 to 1947.
        In 1947 she married the poet William Jay Smith, and the couple lived for a time in England and Italy. They divorced in the mid-1960's, and she lived in Pownal for the rest of her life. For the past three decades, she mainly lived a  secluded life on her farm.
        She did spend time in the Caribbean though, and she edited two anthologies of writings by authors from lands to the south of the United States: "From the Green Antilles: Writings of the Caribbean" (1966) and "The Eye of the Heart: Short Stories From Latin America" (Avon, 1973).
        Jorge Luis Borges, the Argentine poet, critic and short-story writer who died in 1986, said of "The Eye of the Heart," "All the important writers are there, and the stories are all good."
        Miss Howes also wrote "The Road Commissioner and Other Stories" (1983). Her other poetry books are "The Undersea Farmer" (1948), "In the Cold Country" (1954), "Light and Dark" (University Press of New England, 1959), "Looking up at Leaves" (1966), "The Blue Garden" (University Press of New England, 1972), "A Private Signal: Poems New and Selected" (1977) and "Moving" (Elysian, 1983).
        Looking at her work, the poet Richard Wilbur said not long ago, "Some of her  poems have the tartness of up-country New England, yet she can speak fantastically, to evoke the fantastic clamors of New York; and in many a southerly poem, she speaks, for our pleasure, the tongue of pure felicity."
        In addition to her son Gregory, of Pownal, Miss Howes is survived by another  son, David Smith of Manhattan and a sister, Priscilla Howes Grant of Middlebury, Vt.
      