
        Frances Frenaye, a veteran American translator of French and Italian literary works into English, died on Friday at her apartment in Miami Beach. She was 88.
        Earlier, Miss Frenaye lived for some 50 years in Manhattan, where she was employed, from 1963 to 1980, by the Italian Cultural Institute and edited its newsletter.
        Over the years she also translated writings by scores of French and Italian  authors, including Balzac, Carlo Levi and Ignazio Silone. And she translated the writing of Elie Wiesel, who was born in Romania, from French.
        According to Herbert Mitgang, an author and former New York Times book critic, the most notable aspect of her work was an ability to combine clarity and eloquence. "She didn't confine herself to literal translation," he said, "but also succeeded in capturing both the sense and the spirit of the author's intention."
        An award jury that included Henri Peyre of Yale University chose Miss Frenaye to receive the 1951 Denyse Clairouin Memorial Award for distinguished translation of French into English for her renderings of the books "The Plunderers," by Georges Blond, and "Renee," by J. H. R. Lenormand.
        Other books she translated included "Christ Stopped at Eboli" (1948), by Carlo Levi; "The Road to the City," by Natalia Ginzburg (1952), and "Little Misunderstandings of No Importance" (1985), by Antonio Tabucchi.
        Miss Frenaye was also a freelance critic, and she appreciated -- though sometimes grudgingly -- esprit and individualism in people as well as in literature. Applauding a 1956 work, "Wingless Victory," about Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian poet, novelist and dramatist, and his mistress, the actress Eleonora Duse, Miss Frenaye wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book's author, Frances Winwar, "in her spirited and lush re-creation of the  posing poet, has done well to present him in his own terms."
        "Perhaps, in our iron age," Miss Frenaye added, "there is something to be said for flaming lives and for individual rather than mass aberration."
        Miss Frenaye was born in Lawrence, L.I., into a family of remote French origin. She graduated from the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., and in 1930 from Bryn Mawr College. She then spent six years in Europe, mostly in Paris and  Rome.
        In 1939 she married Angelo Lanza di Trabia, a Sicilian, and afterward she used the surname Lanza in her personal life, although not in her work. During World War II she was a Washington-based official of the Justice Department. In Manhattan, after the war, she wrote a column for an Italian newspaper, Il Mondo, for a time.
        Miss Frenaye and her husband separated in 1961, when he moved back to Italy.  He died in 1978.
        She is survived by a daughter, Bianca Lanza of Miami, and a grandson.
      