
        Dr. Henriette R. Klein, clinical professor emeritus of psychiatry at Columbia University and a pioneer in the study of childhood schizophrenia, died on May 11 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 94.
        She researched, taught and practiced psychiatry for six decades and was associated with Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons as a special lecturer until 1993. She was the first woman to be elected president of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the first female member and president of the New York Psychiatric Society.
        Dr. Klein was known for her direct style, her no-nonsense professionalism and the breadth of her interests. She was born in Evanston, Ill., and graduated  from the University of Chicago in 1924. She received her medical degree from the University of Maryland in 1932 and trained at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute from 1935 to 1940.
        With her mentor, Dr. Howard W. Potter, she was co-author of a ground-breaking study in 1937 on diagnosing childhood schizophrenia. She and Dr. Potter also experimented with outpatient services for a child-care agency, a harbinger of community psychiatry.
        Another focus of her work was the training of psychiatrists at Columbia's Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, which she joined in 1949. She studied the effects of psychoanalysis on the patient, a subject she repeatedly wrote about.
        She took part in a study, "Anxiety in Pregnancy and Childbirth" (1950), which debunked the received wisdom that having a baby was an answer to unhappiness. Instead, the study found that having a child can aggravate underlying disturbances in women who are severely maladjusted or mentally ill.
        With her husband, Dr. William A. Horwitz, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, she explored the mechanisms of paranoia and helped broaden the dynamic explanations of that disorder. She also had a private psychiatric practice in Manhattan.
        Dr. Klein organized psychiatric training centers at Emory University, New York University and the Long Island College of Medicine, which became the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York.
        Among her professional concerns were the confidentiality of patients' records, the disciplining of psychiatrists who engage in sexual relations with patients and the discouraging of long-term analysis by older psychiatrists likely to die before the patient.
        Dr. Klein is survived by a daughter, Dr. Susan Harris Molnar of Scarborough,  N.Y.; a son, William Harris of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and three grandchildren. Her husband died in 1968.
      