
        Katrina de Hirsch, a speech therapist who was a pioneer in the field of childhood language and learning disorders, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93.
        Ms. de Hirsch, who was better known by her professional name than her legal name, Katherine Romney, was among the first researchers to call attention to the varied deficiencies that make up speech and learning disabilities.
        In the mid-1960's, long before interest in dyslexia, stuttering and similar  problems became widespread, Ms. de Hirsch was writing articles for professional  journals on these topics, said Dr. Jeannette Jansky, a colleague for many years.
        Ms. de Hirsch maintained a private practice in New York City and was director of the Pediatric Language Disorder Clinic at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1941 to 1972. One colleague described her as a master clinician who  achieved insights into children based not only on formal testing but on observations of a child's personality and an estimation of the relationships with family and friends.
        "She was a pioneer," Dr. Jansky said. "The whole field of learning disabilities did not exist when she started her practice. When she started her work, the fields of reading disorders and language disorders were not connected. But she always said reading disorders had their base in language.
        "Children with delayed language development had problems with reading when they got older. Once we had polished off their language problems, they came back in a year or two with reading disorders. She came to believe that the problems were rooted in architectural differences in the cortex."
        The two women devised an index to predict whether a kindergarten pupil was likely to succeed in school or to need remedial work. It formed the basis for their first book, "Predicting Reading Failure" (1966, Harper & Row), written with Dr. William Langford. A second book, "Preventing Reading Failure" (1972, Harper & Row), refined the process and focused on intervention.
        In her clinical work, Ms. de Hirsch put into practice the idea that both children and their parents needed to be educated about the needs of learning-disabled pupils.
        "She explained to the parents why the children were having the problems they  were having," Dr. Jansky said. "If a child misread an easy word, it looked like  carelessness. But she explained that they didn't see it. She taught them tolerance and parental support rather than criticism. The emphasis in diagnosis  was always to highlight the children's often very special talents."
        In addition to her private practice, Ms. de Hirsch carried out research and wrote extensively. She also trained pediatric and psychiatric residents to recognize language problems.
        A life fellow of the American Orthopsychiatric Association, Ms. de Hirsch was an honoree of the Orton Society, named after Dr. Samuel Orton, an early mentor of Ms. de Hirsch. She was a founder of the society, now called the Orton Dyslexia Society. She was a fellow of the British College of Speech Therapy and  the American Speech-Language Hearing Association.
        Born in Stuttgart, Germany, Ms. de Hirsch got her training at the West End Hospital for Nervous Diseases in London, where she received a degree from the College of Speech Therapy. In 1941, she came to the United States, where Teachers College of Columbia University awarded her a bachelor's degree.
        She was married three times, and became a baroness by marrying her second husband, Donald von Hirsch.  Her third husband, Alfred Romney, whom she married  in 1948, died in 1977.
        She is survived by two sons, Andrew von Hirsch of Cambridge, England, and Vinal Haven, Maine, and Frank Weil of Washington; two stepsons, Andrew Romney of Manhattan and Henry Romney of Remsenburg, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      