
        Frances L. Loeb, who spent a dozen years as New York City's liaison to its vast corps of foreign diplomats and a lifetime maintaining a family tradition of philanthropy, died on Friday at her home on Park Avenue. Mrs. Loeb, who also had homes in Purchase, N.Y., and Lyford Cay, Nassau, the Bahamas, was 89.
        "One thing I had in my mind," Mrs. Loeb said in 1990 when she announced a $7.5 million gift to Vassar College for construction of an art center, "I'm never going to be the richest person in the cemetery."
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
        In 1990, the Loebs pledged $70.5 million to finance new faculty positions and scholarships to Harvard College, as well as programs and positions in the schools of design and public health. The gift also benefited the Loeb Drama Center, home to the American Repertory Theater, established in 1957 with help from the Loebs.
        Mrs. Loeb was also a trustee of Vassar and Cornell University and an overseer of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        In addition to money, Mrs. Loeb gave time. For 12 years in the 1960's and 70's, during the administrations of Mayors John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame, Mrs. Loeb was New York City's unsalaried commissioner for the United Nations and for the Consular Corps. Directing a staff of nine full-time and six part-time employees, Mrs. Loeb eased cultural shock and fostered amity in a foreign diplomatic community that numbered 35,000 people from 197 missions and 91 consulates.
        Besides forgoing a salary, Mrs. Loeb stretched the commission's relatively scant $158,000 budget by coaxing, cajoling and wheedling tens of thousands of dollars from friends and family. She committed the gifts to financing lectures,  establishing nursery schools, providing counseling about high schools and colleges and sponsoring courses in English.
        In 1976, Mrs. Loeb and her staff handled more than 1,800 inquiries about housing, education, traffic, consumer fraud, police, family matters and legal problems. Thirty volunteers made more than 900 visits or telephone calls to 796  new diplomatic arrivals, and Mrs. Loeb attended endless receptions, lunches and  dinner meetings.
        Frances Lehman Loeb was born in Manhattan on Sept. 25, 1906, into two of the  German-Jewish families whose rise to prominence and zeal for public service were chronicled in Stephen Birmingham's 1972 book, "Our Crowd." These 100 or so families founded banking, securities and retailing empires and many were known for their philanthropies. Her mother was Adele Lewisohn, the daughter of Adolph  Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products. Her father was Arthur Lehman of the investment banking family. One uncle, Herbert H. Lehman, became Governor of New York. Another uncle, Irving Lehman, became Chief Judge of the State Court of Appeals.
        Frances Lehman attended Vassar from 1924 to 1926. In 1926 she and John Loeb were married in the Park Avenue apartment of her grandfather Adolph Lewisohn. From the 1930's through the 1970's, Mr. Loeb was a partner in the investment firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
        Throughout her life, Mrs. Loeb was known as Peter, a name she traced to the days when she was "the unwanted girl baby" and "Peter Pan" was playing on Broadway.
        "I was a sick child," she said, "and they called me Peter Pan, hoping that I  would live forever."
        Besides her husband of 69 years, Mrs. Loeb is survived by their five children: Judith L. Chiara of Manhattan and Purchase, John L. Loeb Jr. of Manhattan and Purchase, Ann Loeb Bronfman of Washington, Arthur Lehman Loeb of Manhattan and Deborah Loeb Brice of London; 14 grandchildren, and more than 30 great-grandchildren.
      