
        Mary Perot Nichols, the strong-willed former head of the television and radio stations operated by New York City, and a former columnist and city editor of The Village Voice, died yesterday in the hospice of the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69.
        She died of pancreatic cancer, her family said.
        A friend and ally of Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor, for 40 years, Ms. Nichols twice served as president of the WNYC Communications Group, with two radio stations, WNYC-AM and WNYC-FM, and a television station, WNYC-TV, Channel  31, licensed and partly financed by the city.
        Ms. Nichols's most lasting professional contribution may have been the creation of the WNYC Foundation in the late 1970's, founded to attract private funds so the communications group could survive despite dwindling city financing. The foundation is awaiting approval from the Federal Communications Commission to buy WNYC-AM and FM, which are to remain public stations. Last week, the F.C.C. cleared the way for the city to sell the commercial license for WNYC-TV to the ITT Corporation and Dow Jones, which plan to create a sports, financial and entertainment superstation.
        Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.
        Mayor Koch first appointed Ms. Nichols to head WNYC Communications in 1978 on the heels of the city's fiscal crisis, when budget-conscious politicians called  for sale of the stations. She not only kept them going but also began station renovations.
        When she resigned after two years to become director of communications at the University of Pennsylvania, she tossed off a tart farewell: doing creative work  for the city-owned stations was, she said, "a little like trying to cook a gourmet meal with glue on the kitchen floor."
        Ms. Nichols left WNYC because of a disagreement with Mayor Koch when he insisted that the radio station run "The John Hour," in which the names of nine  men convicted of patronizing prostitutes were read over WNYC-AM. Mr. Koch theorized that the embarrassing exposure would cut into the prostitution trade and also argued that the Mayor should be allowed to control programming. "The John Hour" ran only once, but there was an outcry, and Ms. Nichols was made "uncomfortable," Mr. Koch said.
        But he wooed her back to lead the communications group from 1983 to 1990, when Mayor David N. Dinkins replaced her with his own choice. She then became a  visiting professor of journalism at New York University, a post she held until her death.
        Born in York, Pa., Mary Perot grew up near Philadelphia and in Buffalo. Friends say her Main Line family offered her a choice: she could have a "coming-out tea" or a college education. She selected college and in 1948 graduated from Swarthmore College with a degree in political science.
        She lived with her husband and three children in Greenwich Village, and was involved in local issues, particularly the effort to stop Robert Moses from putting a road through Washington Square Park. She kept nudging Dan Wolf, a founding editor of The Village Voice, to write about the park. He encouraged her to write about the danger to the park herself, and she did.
        Soon she became a mainstay of the young newspaper, first as a reporter, then  as author of "Runnin' Scared," a column about city politics.
        A competitive writer with a streak of indignation -- "Mary had the kind of anger that made abolitionists," said a former colleague, Jerry Tallmer, the writer -- she wrote extensively about organized crime and political corruption and was among the loudest critics of the Lower Manhattan Expressway and then Westway. Neither was built.
        "Mary had spies everywhere," said Clark Whelton, a former Voice reporter who  is now a speechwriter for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "She seemed to know things  other people never found out. She would do the legwork herself, sit through long meetings, read documents nobody else would read, make connections nobody else would make."
        Before she left the paper for good in the mid-1970's, she took two years off  to serve as a public relations aide in the city's Parks Department. It was a heady time, during Mayor John V. Lindsay's first term, and the energetic Parks Commissioner, Thomas P. F. Hoving, staged happenings -- concerts and other events to draw the public to the once placid parks.
        "In the revolution of 1966, Mary was a key player," said Henry Stern, the current Commissioner of the Parks Department who was then its executive director. "Hoving was brand new to city government, but she knew all about it. He got the nickname Thomas P. F. Hoving, P. F. for Publicity Forever, but Mary Nichols made it happen."
        Ms. Nichols soon grew disillusioned with Mr. Hoving and Mr. Lindsay, who became one of many favorite targets in her columns once she returned to The Voice in 1968.
        As The Voice's city editor, she encouraged young writers and seemed to thrive on feuds with politicians and colleagues. Some accused her of trying to promote  the interests of Mr. Koch, her old friend. She acknowledged that she often agreed with him, but asserted that "when I disagreed with him, I let him have it."
        Shortly after The Voice's founders sold it in the mid-1970's, a new editor dismissed Ms. Nichols. In 1977, she became communications director to Mayor Kevin S. White of Boston for just under a year. Then, after Mr. Koch's election  that year, she took on the WNYC job.
        Ms. Nichols's marriage to Robert B. Nichols, a writer, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by two daughters, Eliza Nichols of Williamsburg, Va., and Kerstin Nichols of Hartford, Vt.; a son, Duncan, of Thetford, Vt.; a brother, Charles Perot, and two grandchildren.
      