
        Shelley List, a novelist and a producer of the television series "Cagney and  Lacey," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Venice, Calif.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jonathan Estrin, who was also her longtime business partner.
        Ms. List was born in Manhattan. She earned a bachelor's degree in literature from Reed College in 1951 and a master's degree in literature from Teachers College of Columbia University in 1952. In the 1960's she reviewed theater for the Westport News in Westport, Conn., and wrote feature articles for the Fairpress in Fairfield, Conn.
        After writing the novels "Did You Love Daddy When I Was Born?" (1972) and "Nobody Makes Me Cry" (1975), Ms. List moved to California to try her hand at television writing. She sold her first treatment, which was made into the 1979 movie "And Baby Makes Six," with Colleen Dewhurst. Ms. List wrote the script.
        Beginning in the 1980's, she and her husband created, wrote and produced the  mini-series "Between Friends," which was based on Ms. List's novel "Nobody Makes Me Cry"; "Daniel Steele's 'Jewels,' " "Amazing Grace" and "Barbara Taylor Bradford's 'Remember.' " Other television credits include the situation comedy "City," with Valerie Harper, and the pilot episode of "Sisters."
        From 1986 to 1988, Ms. List and her husband were the supervising producers of "Cagney and Lacey, " a role they assumed when the original producer of the series, Terry Louise Fischer, left to develop "L.A. Law." They wrote the second  part of a two-episode drama in which Lacey recognizes and deals with her alcoholism.
        Her first marriage, to Murray List, ended in divorce.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Julie List Faggella and Abigail List, both of Manhattan; two brothers, Peter Steinmann and  Daniel Steinmann; a stepson, Zachary Estrin, and a grandson.
        Correction:
        An obituary on Thursday about Shelley List, a television producer, misidentified the character who struggled with alcoholism in an episode of "Cagney and Lacey" written by Ms. List and her husband, Jonathan Estrin. The character was Cagney, not Lacey.
        An obituary on Thursday about Shelley List, a television producer, misidentified the character who struggled with alcoholism in an episode of "Cagney and Lacey" written by Ms. List and her husband, Jonathan Estrin. The character was Cagney, not Lacey.
      