
        Mary Rosamond Haas, a professor of linguistics whose interests ranged from American Indian languages that were dying to the prehistory of languages and modern Thai, died on May 17 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 86.
        She suffered a long illness, according to the University of California at Berkeley, where she retired as professor emerita in 1977.
        She, along with a handful of graduate students, was trained at Yale University by Edward Sapir, the legendary linguist and anthropologist, and became a force behind the Survey of California Indian Languages. Financed by the State Legislature, the project provided the wherewithal for sending qualified graduate students into the field for studies of the spoken native American word.
        The program, started as a pilot project in 1949, surveyed cultures and languages presumably doomed to oblivion. In 1953, the survey of surviving Indian tongues became official, and the graduate department of linguistics was established on the Berkeley campus.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, Dr. Haas used the survey for intensive explorations of the native languages in California and beyond. Such efforts inspired more than 40 dissertations and the careers of a generation of ethnolinguists.
        Dr. Haas was a graduate of Earlham College in her native Richmond, Ind. She received a degree in comparative linguistics at the University of Chicago in 1931 and a Ph.D. at Yale in 1935. Her dissertation was on Tunica, an Indian language once spoken in what is now Louisiana.
        She then delved into fieldwork with various other endangered or extinct species: Natchez, the only known member of its family of languages, as well as several of the Muskogean branch-offs, like Creek-Seminole.
        As the entry of the United States into World War II loomed, she started working with the Thai language. She helped prepare Thai materials for the armed  forces and taught the language in a special training program at Berkeley, an experience that led to her appointment as an assistant professor of Siamese and  linguistics in 1947. She was promoted to professor of linguistics in 1957.
        Her books in print include "Language, Culture and History: Essays" (Stanford  University Press, 1978), "Prehistory of Languages" (Mouton, 1978), "Thai Vocabulary" and "Thai System of Writing" (Spoken Language Service).
        Dr. Haas is survived by a brother, Robert Haas, of Elkhart Lake, Wis.
      