
        Angel Wallenda, who defied cancer by walking the high wire on an artificial limb after her right leg was amputated just below the knee, died yesterday at Robert Packer Hospital in Sayre, Pa. Ms. Wallenda was 28, and lived in Mansfield, Pa., about 25 miles southwest of Elmira, N.Y.
        The hospital would not disclose the cause of death.
        Ms. Wallenda, who was 17 and an utter novice on the high wire in 1985 when she married into the Wallenda family, famous for its aerialists and acrobats, gave her final performance on March 4, 1990, at Mansfield University.
        She had already lost her leg and was facing cancer surgery for the third time in four years when a roaring crowd responded to her courage and skill at the event, sponsored by the university to help defray her medical expenses.
        "When I'm way up in the sky, walking on a thin line with a fake leg, people look up at me and really pay attention," Ms. Wallenda said. "They see that I'm using everything I've got to live my life the best I can. When people think about that, it makes them think about themselves, and some of them see how much  better they can live their own lives.
        "That's why I do what I do. Maybe that's my main purpose for being here."
        The sixth of seven children, she was born into a family of Hungarian refugees who had fled Communism and settled in the suburbs north of New York City.
        She was named Elizabeth Pintye (pronounced PEN-tya), and because her dour father beat his children frequently, Elizabeth grew up being shuttled between foster homes and her parents' home, being deprived of food, being beaten again,  sometimes running away, knowing bleak Christmases and using alcohol and marijuana. But she maintained a cheery exterior that disguised her resolve not to be controlled by others.
        In "Angel on High," a biographical article that appeared in the March 1991 issue of Reader's Digest, she attributed her strength and courage to her difficult childhood.
        "I'm so much stronger because of it," she said. "If I'd had a sheltered life  with people looking after me, I know I couldn't handle what's happened to me."
        As Lizzie Pintye, she had sworn off drugs and alcohol and was working at the  Dipper Dan Ice Cream Shoppe in Mohegan Lake, N.Y., when she and Mr. Wallenda first noticed each other.
        Later that day, she was attracted by music and a crowd to a shopping center parking lot, where she realized that Steven Wallenda, the man walking a high wire was the man who had been staring at her in the ice cream store.
        When he invited her to join him on the wire in his next show, she accepted. "She was a natural," Mr. Wallenda said.
        She said, "If I could learn the wire and become a performer, I knew it could  be the greatest adventure of my life."
        From the beginning, he called her Angel.
        Not long after they were married in New York City in August 1985, Ms. Wallenda began her training, but not long after that, she began spitting up blood and noticed a painful lump on her ankle, where she had suffered an injury  when she was 11.
        Her right leg was amputated in 1987, and surgery removed parts of both her lungs in 1988. Nevertheless, she determined to walk the wire again. Her success  was recorded later that year on the ABC television show "Incredible Saturday," and she appeared at benefits for the American Cancer Society and the City of Hope Medical Center.
        But her cancer recurred. She knew she would die, but she didn't want to know  how long doctors thought she might live. "I'm going to live my life to the fullest as long as I can," she said.
        She and Mr. Wallenda, who were the parents of a son, Steven 2d, now 9, divorced. Ms. Wallenda remarried. She is survived by her husband, Adil Shaikh, of Mansfield, and an infant daughter.
      