
        Esther S. Manz, who was a 208-pound housewife pregnant with her fifth child when a kitchen-table gathering in 1948 inspired her to found TOPS, a weight-loss support group that grew into a 300,000-member nonprofit organization, died on Monday at the Heritage Nursing Home in Milwaukee. Mrs. Manz, who made her home in Greenfield, Wis., a suburb of Milwaukee, was 88.
        TOPS, which stands for Take Off Pounds Sensibly, draws its philosophy from something the 5-foot-2-inch Mrs. Manz, then 40, observed in group sessions intended to prepare women for childbirth: the power of mutual support in helping participants remain within their doctors' guidelines for weight.
        TOPS members work out a sensible diet and weight goal with their physician and provide evidence of having consulted a doctor before attending weekly meetings that include a weigh-in and provide support and encouragement for members.
        Men and women who achieve their weight goals become KOPS (Keep Off Pounds Sensibly), role models who are themselves reinforced in their efforts to maintain their weight by continuing to attend meetings.
        "Life is a battle," Mrs. Manz once said. "Just let us win the one on obesity."
        According to data from the weekly weigh-ins, TOPS members in 12,000 chapters  in the United States and abroad lost more than 740 tons last year, a spokeswoman said yesterday.
        The nonprofit organization, based in Milwaukee, is supported by membership dues -- $16 in each of the first two years and $14 thereafter. When Mrs. Manz wrote TOPS's articles of incorporation in 1952, she committed it to finding a cure for obesity, and TOPS says it has contributed more than $4.5 million to obesity research.
        After Mrs. Manz and three friends established their support group at her kitchen table in Milwaukee, the organization's name took its final form as the result of a newspaper article.
        Mrs. Manz said she originally thought of it as TOP. "We didn't even have a name for our club at first, but when we went down to The Milwaukee Journal to be interviewed about our organization, the reporter asked what we called ourselves," she said in the group's handbook for new members. When the article was published, the name appeared as TOPS, and Mrs. Manz said it was later suggested that the S be made to stand for "sensibly."
        On Jan. 21, 1948, the first meeting of TOPS was held at a Milwaukee community center. In the early days of the organization, Mrs. Manz carried a scale with her as she made her rounds as roving ambassador, organizing meetings.
        Mrs. Manz, who achieved average proportions in her effort to control her weight, became president and chairwoman of the TOPS board in 1952. Declining health prompted her to relinquish the presidency in 1991, but she remained chairwoman until her death.
        Born in 1907 in Plymouth, Wis., she grew up as Esther Schuland and graduated  in 1926 from Wisconsin State Teachers College. She taught at rural Wisconsin schools, married Gilbert Manz, a steelworker, in 1929 and later moved to Milwaukee, where she became a housewife.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Manz is survived by a son, Gilbert Jr.; four daughters, Bonnie Prieben, Maureen Weigert, Barbara Canapa and Marjory von Hof;  a brother, Carl Schuland, of Green Bay, Wis., 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren. All of Mrs. Manz's children live in Milwaukee except for Mrs. von Hof, a resident of Altura, Minn.
      