
        She was just 17 when she climbed on the shoulders of Karl Wallenda in the debut performance of the Wallenda pyramid in Madison Square Garden in 1928. The  act brought the audience to its feet and stopped the Greatest Show on Earth for 11 minutes.
        Helen Kreis Wallenda, who formed the pinnacle of the famous Wallenda high-wire pyramid many times during 30 years of performing, died on Thursday in  Sarasota. She was 85 and the last member of the original four-member Great Wallendas high-wire troupe. She was the widow of the group's founder, Karl Wallenda.
        Mrs. Wallenda retired in 1956, six years before the seven-person pyramid fell in Detroit, killing two members of the troupe and leaving her adopted son,  Mario, paralyzed. Tragedy struck again in 1964 when her sister, Rietta Grotefent, died in a fall from the wire.
        She was in San Juan, P.R., in 1978 when Karl Wallenda, whom she married in 1935, fell 10 stories to his death while trying to walk a wire strung between two hotels.
        "My mother was not only the greatest aerialist in her field, she was a very dignified lady," said her daughter, Carla Wallenda Guzman. "She loved to perform, then she loved being grandma."
        Ms. Guzman likes to tell the story about how her mother, at 72, helped her son-in-law, Mike Morgan, learn the wire act. "She got hold of my husband's shoulders and started climbing up on his shoulders as he balanced on a low wire," said Ms. Guzman, who had been performing in New York until she learned of her mother's illness earlier this week.
        "She refused to watch us perform. It scared her."
        Yet Helen Wallenda's specialty was climbing like a cat onto the shoulders of  her husband, while he was balanced on a chair on the wire.
        She was born Dec. 11, 1910, in Germany and joined Karl Wallenda and his daredevil troupe when she was 16, touring throughout Europe.
        She came to America in 1928 with the original Wallenda act of Karl and Herman Wallenda and Joe Geiger, and to Sarasota because it was the winter quarters of the Ringling show. She and her husband bought a two-story home in Sarasota where she cared for grandchildren when the rest of the family was touring.
        In addition to her daughter, Carla, she is survived by two other children, Jenny Wallenda Anderson and Mario Wallenda; six grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      