
        Pilar Lorengar, a Spanish soprano who was best known for her portrayals of Mozart heroines but whose repertory ranged from zarzuela to Puccini, Verdi and Wagner, died on Sunday at the Park Sanitarium in Berlin. She was 68 and lived in Berlin, where she was a star of the Deutsche Oper for more than 30 years.
        Hans Boon, her publicity representative, said the cause was breast cancer.
        Miss Lorengar had a bright, distinctive sound that was not to all tastes. Her detractors often pointed to her wide vibrato, a characteristic that is shared by many Spanish singers and has been described by Ms. Lorengar's admirers as an expressive shimmer. The vibrato aside, she was an attractive and vibrant singer who created a sense of feminine vulnerability in roles like the Countess  in "Le Nozze di Figaro," Dona Elvira in "Don Giovanni" or Mimi in "La Boheme," but could also be a commanding Tosca and a lively Fiordiligi in "Cosi fan Tutte."
        Although she sang with orchestras and opera companies all over the world, and made recordings with many conductors and ensembles, she was unusual in that she  considered a single company, the Berlin Deutsche Oper, her artistic home. Miss Lorengar made her debut there in Orff's "Carmina Burana" in 1958, when the company was called the Berlin City Opera, and quickly became a favorite of Berlin audiences and critics. When the company opened its new house in 1961, it  was with a production of "Don Giovanni" in which she sang Donna Elvira.
        Miss Lorengar sang most of the major Mozart roles in Berlin, as well as Wagner's Elsa in "Lohengrin" and Eva in "Die Meistersinger," the title roles in Puccini's "Manon Lescaut," "Madama Butterfly," "Tosca" and "Suor Angelica," and Verdi's Desdemona in "Otello," Violetta in "La Traviata" and Alice Ford in "Falstaff." She was made a lifetime member of the Deutsche Oper in 1984, when the company staged a 25th-anniversary gala for her. And it was in Berlin that she gave her last operatic performance, as Tosca on June 9, 1990.
        She also performed often at the Metropolitan Opera, where she made her debut  as Donna Elvira in 1966. At the Met she sang several of the Mozart, Puccini, Verdi and Wagner roles that were also in her Berlin repertory, as well as Antonia in Offenbach's "Conte d'Hoffmann," Micaela in Bizet's "Carmen" and Agathe in Weber's "Freischutz." Her last appearance at the Met was as Fiordiligi in 1982. Her last appearance in New York was a recital at the 92d Street Y in 1987.
        Miss Lorengar was born Pilar Lorenza Garcia -- Lorengar is a combination of her middle and last names -- in Saragossa, Spain, on Jan. 16, 1928. She became fond of singing after she joined the choir of the convent school she attended as a child, and was smitten with zarzuela when she heard it through the earphone of a homemade radio made for her by a neighbor. Before she undertook formal vocal studies, she was hired by Radio Saragossa as a member of its zarzuela troupe.
        In the mid-1940's, Miss Lorengar moved to Madrid, where she studied with Angeles Ottein and sang in a zarzuela company for several years before she decided to change her focus to the more conventional operatic roles. She made her international opera debut, as Cherubino in "Le Nozze di Figaro," at Aix-en-Provence, in 1955. The same year she made her American debut in a concert version of Granados's "Goyescas" with the Little Orchestra Society in New York.  She made her American operatic debut as Liu in Puccini's "Turandot" at the San Francisco Opera in 1964, and maintained a close relationship with that company over the next 25 years.
        Miss Lorengar's discography includes recordings of Gluck's "Orfeo ed Euridice," Mozart's "Zauberflote" and Verdi's "Traviata" (all on London Records) and Hindemith's "Mathis der Maler" (on Deutsche Grammophon).
        She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jurgen Schaff, and a brother, Luis Garcia Seta, of Madrid.
      