
        Miriam Gideon, a prolific composer of vocal, chamber and orchestral music, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Ms. Gideon's music was often lean in texture but driven by a lyrical impulse  and an intensity that clarified the texts she set. In her song cycles, she sometimes mixed poetry from different centuries and in different languages, with an eye toward illuminating a common theme. She was a modernist, and did not shun rhythmic complexity or free atonality when those qualities suited her needs; yet when she used angular lines or abrasive harmonies, it was always to point up an  emotional or dramatic element in the work at hand.
        Her vocal works included an opera, "Fortunato" (1958), a set of Shakespeare  settings for voice and orchestra (1951), several song cycles on natural and philosophical themes, including "Questions on Nature" (1964), "The Seasons of Time" (1969) and "Creature to Creature" (1985), and song settings in French, Japanese, German, Greek, Latin and Hebrew.
        A specialist in Jewish liturgical music, and a composition teacher at the Jewish Theological Seminary, Ms. Gideon composed many settings of Hebrew prayers, both for chorus and solo voice, including a complete Sabbath service.
        Ms. Gideon also created a varied catalogue of instrumental works, including a Symphonia Brevis (1951), a String Quartet (1946), sonatas for flute (1943), viola (1948), cello (1967) and piano (1977). She sometimes combined exotic elements -- as in the "Fantasy on a Javanese Motive" (1948) -- with her own contemporary American style.
        Ms. Gideon was born in Greeley, Colo., on Oct. 23, 1906, and grew up in Boston, where she began studying the piano at age 9, and composing soon thereafter. After doing her undergraduate work at Boston University, she earned  a master's degree in musicology at Columbia University in 1946, and studied composition privately with Lazare Saminsky and Roger Sessions. She taught composition at Brooklyn College, City College of the City University of New York, the Manhattan School of Music and the Jewish Theological Seminary, and it  was at the seminary that she earned her doctorate in composition -- after nearly a quarter century as a teacher -- in 1970.
        Although she was often cited as a role model for women who wanted to make their careers as composers, Ms. Gideon was always ambivalent about her status as a pioneering woman, and she disapproved of concert and broadcast series that presented only women's works.
        "I didn't know I was a woman composer until the 1960's," she said in a 1986 interview. "I knew I was a composer -- a young composer for many years, and then, suddenly, an older composer. But never a woman composer."
        Ms. Gideon's husband of 40 years, the author Frederic Ewen, died in 1989. She is survived by a sister, Judith Gideon of Manhattan; a daughter-in-law, Petra Ewen of Roanoke, Va., and three grandchildren.
      