
        Clare Potter, a leading American fashion designer of the 1930's and 40's known for imaginative use of color and simplicity of line, died Jan. 5 at her home in Fort Ann, N.Y. She was 95.
        Along with Claire McCardell and Tina Leser, Ms. Potter was one of the designers credited with inventing American sportswear, a style that has influenced designers all over the world. She was a featured designer at Lord & Taylor when the store was headed by the legendary Dorothy Shaver, and received the first Lord & Taylor Design Award in 1938 for ''distinguished designing in the field of sports clothes for women.'' She also received a Neiman Marcus Award in 1939 and a Coty Fashion Critics Award in 1946. In 1939, she designed a blue wool dress for Eleanor Roosevelt to wear to meet King George VI and Queen Elizabeth of England.
        Several of Ms. Potter's designs are  in an exhibition called, ''Designing Women: American Style 1940-1960,'' at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford.
        ''She was incredibly important,'' said Richard Martin, the curator of the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''She was one of that first group in the 1930's of designers recognized by name. She was recognized by American women for getting rid of ornamentation. She wasn't the boldest, like Claire McCardell, but she was known for color and simple textures, for a discreet style of dressing, for sophisticated sportswear.''
        An aristocratic-looking woman who loved sports, particularly horseback riding, Ms. Potter designed for women like herself who favored casual clothes that were simple yet sophisticated. ''Large numbers of American women want clothes that are refined,'' Ms. Potter said in a 1948 interview with The New York Times. ''I aim to give them in a medium-priced, ready-to-wear costume what they would find in custom-made styles.''
        Among the styles she was known for were the two-piece swimsuit consisting of a bra and bloomers, the evening sweater and the sidesaddle-draped skirt. Even for evening, her designs tended to be as casual as a shirt and skirt or pants and a tunic. One outfit of the 1940's combined a rose-colored blouse, a pale blue floor-length skirt and a green belt.
        ''She did forward-looking active sports clothes, sundresses, trousers, bathing suits and evening sweaters,'' said Valerie Steele, the chief curator of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology. ''She wasn't influenced by Paris, but by the modern American leisure life style.''
        Ms. Potter was born in Jersey City in 1903. Her affinity for color could be traced to an interest in art she developed while in high school, where she was art editor of the school paper, and continued with studies at the Art Students League. Although she did not know how to sew, she took a draping course and produced what she later described as ''my first weird costume,'' consisting of a long, slinky red wool dress with huge silk sleeves that she dyed to match.
        She went on to study at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and after graduation found a job with a dress manufacturer. In 1948 she went into partnership with Martha Stout, a former magazine editor, in a ready-to-wear company called Timbertop. The name came from the turkey farm in West Nyack, N.Y., where Ms. Potter lived with her husband, J. Sanford Potter, an architect.
        By the mid-1950's she was in business on her own, working from a barn on her farm with her husband drafting the patterns for her clothing. ''It was very chic to go out there and buy things in a lovely spot,'' recalled Virginia Wagoner Booth, who was then a buyer for Lord & Taylor and became a lifelong friend.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Potter designed and built a Japanese-style house in Fort Ann on Lake Nebo, where the couple grew camellias and raised Dalmatians.
        ''They kept horses down in Virginia,'' Ms. Booth said, ''and went down every weekend in the fall to hunt. Clare remained physically active almost until the end. When she took to her bedroom, she could look out at the lake and see the birds. She loved to watch and feed the birds.
        ''When Sandy died four years ago,'' she added, referring to Mr. Potter, ''we scattered his ashes on the property. We'll do the same thing with hers.''
        Ms. Potter left no survivors.
      