
        Kirsten Ralov, one of Denmark's greatest ballerinas and an authority on the unusually sparkling Danish style of classical dancing, died on Sunday at her home in Copenhagen. She was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said Ebbe Mork, a dance writer in Copenhagen.
        Miss Ralov was celebrated for her performances in the ballets of August Bournonville, the 19th-century Danish choreographer whose works emphasize a charming stage presence and fleet and light footwork. Associated with the Royal Danish Ballet throughout her career, Miss Ralov entered its school in 1922 and spent her artistic life from childhood to maturity on the stage of the Royal Theater in Copenhagen.
        Her first major performances were in Bournonville ballets: she made her theatrical debut in a children's role in ''Konservatoriet'' in 1933 and received her first solo part as an adult dancer in ''La Ventana'' in 1941. She gave her farewell performance as the Ballerina Doll in Michel Fokine's ''Petrouchka'' in 1962. She then served as a ballet mistress for the Royal Danish Ballet and was its associate director from 1978 to 1988.
        Miss Ralov's repertory in Copenhagen ranged from Myrta, the evil queen of the spirits in ''Giselle,'' to the sophisticated Street Dancer in Leonide Massine's ''Beau Danube''; she also danced a solo role in George Balanchine's abstract ''Symphony in C.'' But she was essentially a Bournonville specialist, starring in ballets like ''Napoli,'' ''The Kermesse in Bruges'' and ''A Folk Tale.''
        Miss Ralov also did much to acquaint the world with Danish ballet. She and her husband, Fredbjorn Bjornsson, who died in 1993, were among the first Danish dancers to tour internationally, appearing with a small group of soloists at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1955 and with the full Royal Danish Ballet at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1956.
        After her retirement as a performer, Miss Ralov staged Bournonville productions for many companies.
        She is survived by two sons.
      