
        Francine Everett, a singer, dancer and actress who was one of the stars of the all-black cast ''race'' movies of the 30's and 40's, died at a nursing home in the Bronx on May 27.
        She gave her birth year as 1920, however by 1933 she was already appearing with the Four Black Cats, a nightclub variety act. Shortly thereafter, she began acting with the Federal Theater in Harlem, which was sponsored by the Works Progress Administration.
        After marrying the actor Rex Ingram, she moved to Hollywood in 1936. Upon her arrival, she is said to have turned down a part as one of the angels in the Warner Brothers all-black spectacle ''Green Pastures,'' in which her husband starred as De Lawd, and she later refused to accept the stereotypical roles of servants that were offered by the studios.
        Her marriage to Mr. Ingram ended in divorce in 1939, and Ms. Everett returned to Harlem. She quickly became a familiar face as a lead in low-budget, independently produced black films like ''Keep Punching'' (1939), which starred the boxing champion Henry Armstrong; ''Big Timers'' (circa 1945), which featured Moms Mabley and Stepin Fetchit, and ''Dirty Gerty From Harlem U.S.A.'' (1946), which was directed by Spencer Williams Jr., who later portrayed Andy in the ''Amos 'n' Andy'' television series.
        Among her Hollywood film credits were bit parts in ''Lost Boundaries'' (1949) and in Sidney Poitier's first film, ''No Way Out'' (1950), which was her final appearance on the screen.
        The entertainment historian Henry T. Sampson said that Ms. Everett  and Edna Mae Harris were the last of the leading ladies of the all-black films. The cultural historian and lecturer Delilah Jackson said that Billy Rowe, an editor of The Pittsburgh Courier and writer for The Amsterdam News in New York, called Ms. Everett ''the most beautiful woman in Harlem.''
        The former actor and award-winning filmmaker and producer William Greaves said that Ms. Everett  ''was a true legend of black film and theater, one of the top stars of the 40's race movies.''
        He added, ''She would have been a superstar in Hollywood were it not for the apartheid climate in America and the movie industry at the time.''
        Her arresting looks may not have benefited her career as a Hollywood player at a time when black actresses were rarely portrayed as glamorous, but they served her well as a model and singer.
        As a vocalist, Ms. Everett appeared in more than 50 ''soundies,'' short musical films featuring the most renowned jazz and popular musicians of the 1940's. One was the 1947 release ''Ebony on Parade,'' which starred Dorothy Dandridge, Cab Calloway and the Count Basie band. She was also a popular print model who appeared in clothing and cosmetic advertisements in the 40's.
        She is survived by an aunt, Lucy Williams.
        Ms. Everett retired from show business in the 1950's. She held a clerical job at Harlem Hospital until her retirement in 1985. But she maintained a keen interest in black film and entertainment. She was a member of the Negro Actors' Guild and often lectured and participated on panels and in seminars sponsored by the International Agency for Minority Artists Affairs, which promotes black films.
      