
        Dolores Jimenez Alcantara, a blind singer who was one of Spain's leading flamenco artists, died on June 14 in a hospital in Malaga. She was 90.
        Onstage Ms. Jimenez wore dark glasses and typically performed while standing, supporting herself with one hand placed on the back of a chair. She performed publicly until the late 1980's under the stage name La Nina de la Puebla (The Girl From  the Village) and was best known for her rendition of ''Los Campanilleros'' (''The Bell Ringers''), a popular Spanish ballad about children's folkloric choirs.
        The daughter of a singing barber from Seville province, Ms. Jimenez was born on July 28, 1908, in La Puebla de Cazalla, which gave rise to her nickname. She had an eye infection when very young, and improper treatment caused permanent blindness.
        Ms. Jimenez began musical instruction at age 8 when her family moved to Madrid. She warmed gradually to flamenco, received her first contract at 14 and gained a following after a successful performance at a festival in Moron de la Frontera, southeast of Seville, at 20.
        In 1931, she made her debut in Seville and a year later, in Madrid. She took ''Los Campanilleros'' and moved it definitively into the realm of flamenco.
        A fellow flamenco singer, Manuel Torre, earlier had converted the same spirited ballad into a melancholy flamenco song. But Ms. Jimenez's version was lighter, peppery, more accessible yet still mournful. The song became her trademark, and she performed it with traveling troupes known as flamenco operas, which appeared in bullrings and theaters.
        She spent decades fashioning countless other songs in a style that flamenco experts often described as dulce, or sweet. She was comfortable performing much of the flamenco repertory and its multiple forms of haunting melodies and staccato laments.
        In 1934 she married a fellow singer, Lucas Soto Martin, known professionally as Luquitas de Marchena.  He died in 1965. Their five children --  two of whom, Adelfa and Pepe, are professional flamenco performers --  survive her.
        Ms. Jimenez had been scheduled to receive a gold medal from King Juan Carlos I for Merit in Fine Arts. The authorities will now deliver the award to her family.
      