
        Cecilia Danieli,  who helped revolutionize the world steel industry by developing the compact steel mills known in the industry as minimills, died last Thursday of cancer. She was 56.
        Though women made broad strides in Italian business in her lifetime, Ms. Danieli was one of a handful who reached the top in the male domain of heavy industry. Her presence at the top, she once said, meant that Danieli consistently boasted a higher percentage of women in management posts than Italian companies of comparable size.
        The company she ran, Danieli Group, founded by her grandfather in the family's hometown of Buttrio in Northern Italy, developed in the 1950's from a small manufacturer of scissors and shears to a supplier of compact steel mills to small Northern Italian steelmakers that mainly supplied the steel reinforcing bars that were the sinews of postwar Italian reconstruction.
        Beginning in the 1970's, the company began shipping its engineers abroad to build mills in places like Mozambique to produce steel bars or rolling mills in the United States. These mills revolutionized steelmaking and tilted the market away from the developed world by giving scores of countries in Africa, South America and the East Asia the means to produce steel cheaply and efficiently. They ultimately led, in highly industrialized countries like the United States, to the decline of traditional big steel mills and their replacement by smaller, more flexible minimills.
        Ms. Danieli, one of four sisters, was forced to take charge of the family company founded by her grandfather in 1914 in the mid-1970's, when the oil price increases in the first half of that decade drained the capital to invest in steel and scuttled further expansion. In 1976, the company posted its first loss ever. That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
        She quickly rejuvenated Danieli's management, then gained a major breakthrough when the company captured a $240 million contract for a steel mill in the former East Germany from its nearest competitor, the giant Krupp group of the former West Germany. She also expanded sales in North and South America, Asia and the former Soviet Union.
        In addition to its Italian headquarters, the company, with roughly 3,000 employees, had affiliates in Youngstown, Ohio, and in Sweden.
        In 1984, to keep the company financially as well as technologically fit, Ms. Danieli took the unusual step for Italian family-run companies, and against the opposition of her more traditional father, of listing Danieli on the stock exchange. About 54 percent of the company remained controlled by her and Gianpietro Benedetti, her companion, with whom she shared management of the company in recent years.
        Ms. Danieli entered the company in 1969 after earning a degree in economics at nearby Trieste University. A fluent English speaker, she once worked as a student for a summer on a truck farm near Schuylerville, N.Y. She avoided the limelight often favored by Italian executives. But Danieli's business success reflected her drive for technical superiority and her untiring sales efforts. A passionate student of history and a mountain climber, in the mid-1990's she once spent Christmas Day in the mountains of Iran to negotiate a sale.
        She is survived by Mr. Benedetti and three children.
      