
        Rose Kryzak, an outspoken lobbyist for the rights of the elderly who was once credited with getting a utility charge overturned as unfair to older people, died on Thursday at her home in Queens. She was 99.
        She first came to the public's attention in 1976, when she argued at a Federal Power Commission hearing in Washington that utility companies should not be allowed to pass along to customers -- many of whom were elderly people with restricted incomes -- the cost of plants that were still under construction and not producing power.
        Mrs. Kryzak, then 75, bluntly challenged the lawyers and bankers who represented the utilities. ''We cannot afford plants that most of us would not live to enjoy,'' she said.
        The commission decided not to allow such charges except in hardship cases, and The New York Times attributed the decision to the ''Kryzak problem.''
        Mrs. Kryzak's victory was not final. In 1987, after the name of the agency had been changed to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the utilities won the right to request rate increases that would cover up to 50 percent of the costs of plants under construction.
        Mrs. Kryzak also helped organize groups of the elderly throughout New York State to lobby for a state-financed pharmaceutical plan to assist in paying for prescription drugs, worked to eliminate mandatory retirement laws and was vocal on increasing state supplements for Social Security.
        Mrs. Kryzak, a member of the American Communist Party throughout her life, was one of the principal subjects interviewed for the documentary ''Seeing Red,'' shown at the New York Film Festival in 1983.
        ''She held to her belief throughout her life,'' her son, Thomas, said. ''She refused to accept that there was any problem with the Soviet Union. Partly, it was patriotism for the old country. Both she and my father, who died in 1985, were born in Russia before the Revolution.
        ''They considered themselves pioneers,'' he said, ''going down the road that this country should go down.''
        Mrs. Kryzak, who was born on Oct. 15, 1899, was the oldest of six children. Her family immigrated to the United States in 1910. Her father, Isaac Marron, was an early member of the House Painters Union and a Socialist.
        Mrs. Kryzak worked her entire adult life for an actuary until retiring in 1972.
        In addition to her son, Thomas, of Fresh Meadows, Queens, she is survived by a daughter, Ann Herman of Lakeland, Fla., five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      