
        Ruth Langer Lawrence, who as a 15-year-old Austrian Jewish swimmer refused to compete in the 1936 Olympic Games in Nazi Germany, died on May 2. Lawrence, who lived in London, was 77.
        Lawrence was born and reared in Vienna and took up swimming at age 11 with the Jewish sports club Hakoah (meaning strength). At 14, she broke the Austrian records for the 100-meter and 400-meter freestyles and won the Austrian championships at those distances. Although Austrian officials were uncomfortable about choosing Jews for their Olympic team, she, Judith Deutsch and Lucie Goldner, all Jews, were about to be selected.
        Anti-Semitism was strong in Austria then, and the pools where the swimmers would do their final training carried signs saying ''No entry for dogs and Jews.'' Heeding the recommendation of the World Federation of Jewish Sports Clubs, headed by Lord Melchett of Britain, the three swimmers refused to take part in the Olympics.
        ''We do not boycott Olympia, but Berlin,'' they said in a statement.
        The three women were immediately banned from Austrian swimming ''due to severe damage of Austrian sports'' and ''gross disrespect for the Olympic spirit.'' The names of all Jewish swimmers were removed from the Austrian record books.
        After Germany annexed Austria in 1938, Lawrence escaped to Italy by dyeing her hair blonde and carrying a false baptismal certificate. In 1939, she moved to England, and that year she won the last British long-distance championship swim in the Thames.
        Five weeks later, World War II began and she was evacuated from London to Bath as an ''enemy alien.'' She was later allowed to return to London, where she met John Lawrence, whom she married in 1943. She is survived by her husband, a son and a daughter.
        Lawrence's photograph is included in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum's traveling exhibition of the Nazi Olympics. The exhibition closed last week in Portland, Ore., and will reopen July 1 in San Diego. She was also interviewed for Stephen Spielberg's Holocaust archives.
        Before the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, Lawrence told Reuters: ''Whenever the Games come up again, I get a heartache. It's something that stays with you for the rest of your life. It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. But being Jewish, it was unthinkable to compete in the Games in Nazi Germany, where my people were being persecuted.''
        In 1995, the Federation of Austrian Swimming Clubs lifted the ban imposed on her. The federation president wrote:
        ''When I learned in recent weeks that athletes who refused to serve as window-dressing for the Hitler regime received a lifetime ban  . . . I blushed with anger and shame. I am deeply ashamed of the decision taken at that time.
        ''You, who as an irreproachable and decent athlete, did everything you could to achieve athletic success, were already stamped by the Nuremberg Laws as a second-class person, and for renouncing athletic success in order to show solidarity with the persecuted, you were punished.
        ''Those responsible today for the Federation of Austrian Swimming Clubs are glad that you survived that cruel and merciless time and humbly apologize for what our predecessors did. All of your athletic successes and achievements are hereby confirmed and recorded in the perpetual scoring tables. You, Ms. Lawrence, are an example to young people. We are proud that you are there.''
      