
        Christina Foyle, London's best known bookseller and the creator and hostess of Britain's most famous literary luncheon series, died on Tuesday at her country home, Beeleigh Abbey, near Maldon in Essex. She was 88.
        An autocratic boss who resisted commercial and technological innovation, paid her staff meager salaries and abhorred labor unions, she was the owner of Foyle's, the vast bookstore on Charing Cross Road in the city's West End, which at one time had more than 30 miles of shelves full of books.
        Wealthy and eccentric, she boasted that she had never done her own housework or cooked her own meals, and that she drank only champagne. Even in her last years, she said that she continued to read an entire book every day.
        The company W. & G. Foyle Ltd.  was begun in 1904 by her father, William, and her uncle Gilbert after they failed their Civil Service exams and advertised their preparation books for sale. They found there was a market for technical texts, and they went into business at their home in North London.
        They moved into the present building at 119 Charing Cross Road, with its five warehouse-sized floors, in 1929. Miss Foyle, as she always preferred to be called, went to work there when she was 17 and became the managing director when her father died in 1963.
        Buttressed by absolute power and her considerable fortune, she resisted all calls for modernization of the store's fusty sales practices. Foyle's long refused to take orders by phone and until this decade banned cash registers and calculators, insisting that all reckoning be done by hand.  Though famed for her determination and a gaze that could flash with impatience, Miss Foyle spoke in a high-pitched voice that one listener likened to the sound of someone who had just inhaled helium.
        Finding the book you wanted from the ramshackle stacks in the dimly lit and chaotic shop was known to be such a trial that a competitor created bus stop posters saying, ''Foyled Again? Try Dillon's.'' Volumes were shelved by the names of their publishers rather than by their authors, and guidance was hard to get from the poorly paid staff, who often were newly arrived in London and had limited knowledge of English. A customer who once asked for ''Ulysses'' was told he had gone to lunch.
        For decades Miss Foyle maintained a system of purchase that required obtaining a receipt and getting in line three times before finally reaching the desk where the book waited. In a much repeated comment, one survivor said, ''Imagine Kafka had gone into the book trade.''
        Still, enough people preferred its gothic habits to the supermarket efficiency of modern bookstores to keep its aisles filled, and Miss Foyle's personal wealth covered any operating losses. Its quirky, anachronistic personality also turned it into a tourist destination, and it attracted as  many people as it infuriated. She turned aside all offers to buy the business or to take it public, disliking the thought of being accountable to shareholders as much as that of dealing with trade unions.
        She began the literary lunches that continue to this day in 1930. She got the inspiration for them one morning behind the counter when an older man asked her to suggest a book for a train trip. She said she had just read ''The Forsyte Saga'' and could heartily recommend it. The customer bought a copy and left the shop, returning a little later to hand it back. It was inscribed, ''For the young lady who liked my book -- John Galsworthy.''
        Excited by this personal contact with a famous writer, she dreamed up the idea of the monthly lunch so that outsiders could mingle with the literary set. Held at the Dorchester and Grosvenor House hotels, the occasions were derided as events for suburban ladies in fur hats, but they attracted a notable list of speakers. Among them were H. G. Wells, Evelyn Waugh, Kingsley Amis, Yehudi Menuhin, Charles Chaplin, Philip Larkin, D. H. Lawrence, Haile Selassie, Charles de Gaulle, Margaret Thatcher, Edith Sitwell, J. B. Priestley, Harold Macmillan and George Bernard Shaw.
        She refused to let messages of regret be read out at her fetes, saying: ''The people who do come are the important ones; I don't bother about the others.''
        Shaw complained after his meal that she had forgotten he was a vegetarian, but when she offered to invite him back with a promise of nothing but green fare, he declined in a note saying, ''I could not bear the noise of 2,000 people eating celery.''
        Asked who had been the most boring literary lunch guest, she always told the story of Sir Walter Gilbey, director of the gin-making company. ''He spoke for one and a half hours,'' she said. ''A man in front of my father fell asleep so he hit the chap with the toastmaster's gavel. The man said: 'Hit me again. I can still hear him.' ''
        Christina Agnes Lilian Foyle was born in London on Jan. 30, 1911, and went to boarding school in Hertfordshire and a finishing school at Wilderswil in Switzerland before beginning work in her father's shop.
        In 1938 she married Ronald Batty, a childhood friend and executive at Foyle's. He died in 1994. The couple had no children, but at Beeleigh Abbey, their 12th-century home, she kept cats, dogs, peacocks and tortoises. ''Animals are always loyal and love you,'' she said, ''whereas with children you never know where you are''
        When the other woman in British life who was often referred to as the Iron Lady lost her job, Miss Foyle was asked for her reaction. ''It's a shame about Mrs. Thatcher,'' she said. ''Luckily they can't chuck me out. I own the place, you see.''
      