
        Sylvia Sidney, whose vulnerable but spunky persona helped make her the ultimate heroine of realistic movies of the 1930's, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Sidney determined to be an actress at the age of 15 and perfected her artistry over six decades in a versatile mix of 40 films and 100 classical and modern plays.
        In her 20's, the petite actress with a heart-shaped face, large, moist eyes and a tremulous voice played anguished film heroines in Rouben Mamoulian's ''City Streets,'' Theodore Dreiser and Josef von Sternberg's ''American Tragedy,'' Elmer Rice and King Vidor's ''Street Scene,'' Sidney Kingsley's ''Dead End'' and Alfred Hitchcock's ''Sabotage.'' She also starred in the first three American films directed by Fritz Lang: ''Fury,'' ''You Only Live Once'' and ''You and Me.''
        In Lang's stark cinema of social injustice, the film historian David Thomson wrote, the actress ''caught exactly the fragile happiness allowed in Lang's world and played with a restraint that perfectly matched the fatal simplicity of the plots. There are close-ups in 'Fury' of Sidney watching Spencer Tracy in a burning jail, as harrowed as any Lillian Gish close-ups'' in D. W. Griffith's silent film masterpieces.
        Miss Sidney was grateful for tutelage from her first film directors. In 1977 she remarked: ''King Vidor and Mamoulian, of course, I adored. Fritz Lang and I became dear friends, though we had awful fights.'' But producers were reluctant to free her from type-casting, prompting her to deplore her repetitious roles as ''the girl of the gangster, then the sister who was bringing up the gangster, then later the mother of the gangster, and they always had me ironing somebody's shirt.''
        Miss Sidney also resented being treated as studio property. She considered herself not a star, but an actress. Eventually she expanded her gallery of screen characters to include a chic Eurasian double-agent in ''Blood on the Sun'' (1945), an idealistic journalist in ''The Searching Wind'' (1946), a drudge in ''Les Miserables'' (1952) and a hard-bitten matriarch in ''Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams'' (1973), for which she was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress. In the 1980's her films included ''Hammett,'' ''Corrupt'' and ''Beetlejuice,'' directed by Tim Burton. In 1996 she appeared in a cameo as a prairie woman in Mr. Burton's ''Mars Attacks!'' as a favor to the director for casting her in ''Beetlejuice'' as a chain-smoking ghoul, a role she thought was ''great,'' said John Springer, her friend and publicist.
        On Broadway, Miss Sidney appeared in Ben Hecht's ''To Quito and Back'' (1937), Irwin Shaw's ''Gentle People'' (with the Group Theater, 1939), Carl Reiner and Joseph Stein's ''Enter Laughing'' (1963) and Tennessee Williams's ''Vieux Carre'' (1977).
        Her richly varied tour and stock performances included ''Pygmalion,'' ''Angel Street,'' ''Jane Eyre,'' ''Joan of Lorraine,'' ''Kind Lady,'' ''O Mistress Mine,'' ''Anne of the Thousand Days,'' ''The Rivals,'' ''The Madwoman of Chaillot,'' ''The Little Foxes,'' ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' ''She Stoops to Conquer,'' ''The Glass Menagerie,'' ''Cabaret,'' ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' ''Butterflies Are Free'' and '' 'Night, Mother.''
        Among Miss Sidney's dozens of starring television roles were acclaimed performances as a cancer-ridden patient in a hospice in the 1980 play ''The Shadow Box'' and as plain-spoken but compassionate grandmothers of homosexual AIDS patients in ''An Early Frost'' in 1985 and in ''Andre's Mother'' in 1990. Miss Sidney last appeared on screen in 1998 in several episodes of ABC's new version of ''Fantasy Island,'' for which she had a seven-year contract for a recurring role, Mr. Springer said. The show was canceled.
        Sylvia Sidney, originally named Sophia Kossow, was born in the Bronx on Aug. 8, 1910, to Victor Kossow, a clothing salesman, and the former Rebecca Saperstein. Her parents were divorced when she was 9, and soon after she was adopted by her mother's second husband, Dr. Sigmund Sidney, a dentist.
        Shy and a stutterer, she was given elocution and dancing lessons starting at the age of 10. As a teen-ager, she left Washington Irving High School to study acting at the Theater Guild school in Manhattan and was soon expelled for staying out late. Nonetheless, she obtained a dozen roles and favorable notices in Broadway plays, including a 1928 drama, ''Gods of the Lightning,'' and a 1930 comedy, ''Bad Girl.'' They won her a contract with Paramount Pictures and opened her path to fame.
        Her main recreation at her homes in Roxbury and later Danbury, Conn., was needlework. Her designs are sold as kits, and she wrote two popular instruction books on the art: ''Sylvia Sidney's Needlepoint Book'' (1968) and ''The Sylvia Sidney Question and Answer Book on Needlepoint'' (1975).
        Miss Sidney's three marriages all ended in divorce. Her husbands were Bennett Cerf, the publisher; Luther Adler, the actor, and Carlton Alsop, a publicity agent. With Mr. Adler, she had a son, Jacob (Jody) Adler, who died in 1987 of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also called Lou Gehrig's disease. His illness prompted her to become a dedicated volunteer for the National A.L.S. Foundation. No immediate family members survive.
        Ms. Sidney regarded her life and her career as inseparable. ''There isn't a role that I wouldn't accept, provided it's good and has something to say,'' she told an interviewer in 1975. ''I wouldn't know what to do with myself if I retired. I'm an actress, and I have to work.''
        Correction:  July 3, 1999, Saturday  An obituary of the actress Sylvia Sidney yesterday misspelled her original surname. It was Kosow, not Kossow.
        The obituary also omitted two survivors. They are her half-brothers, Albert C. Kosow of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Edgar J. Kosow of Plantation, Fla.
      