
        Patricia Zipprodt, the Tony Award-winning costume designer whose career extended from theater to dance to opera to film and television, died on Saturday at her home in  Greenwich Village. Ms. Zipprodt was 74.
        The cause was cancer, according to her sister, Constance Zonka of Chicago.
        Quite simply, as a headline writer once put it, Ms. Zipprodt had the gift of garb. In her youth she studied art, and then one day at the ballet she discovered her calling. She wanted to make the dresses.
        ''I'll design for the ballet,'' she recalled telling herself. ''I'll paint with fabric.''
        Years later she described a play as a painting that moves. ''Instead of it holding still and you look at it, you hold still and it scrolls by,'' she said.
        Although she realized her early dream of designing costumes for ballet, she also designed for scores of Broadway shows, won Tony Awards for ''Fiddler on the Roof'' (1964), ''Cabaret'' (1966) and ''Sweet Charity'' (1985), along with many other prizes.
        Her costumes graced musicals like ''Pippin'' (1972) and ''Chicago'' (1975), Broadway plays like ''Plaza Suite'' (1968), ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' (1983) and ''The Glass Menagerie'' (1983).
        Off Broadway, her credits included ''Our Town'' (1959), ''The Balcony'' (1960), ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad'' (1962) and ''The Blacks'' (1962).
        She did wardrobes for the Boston Opera, the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera and for American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet, the Houston Ballet and Ballet Hispanico.
        In Hollywood she left her imprint on ''The Graduate'' (1967). On television she designed costumes for productions like ''The Glass Menagerie'' on ABC in 1973 and ''Alice in Wonderland'' on WNET in 1983.
        Analyzing Ms. Zipprodt's talent, the actor Joel Grey, who worked with her in ''Cabaret'' in 1966, said: ''Her hands were all over the work, whether or not it had to do with making a diaper for Father Time or this very tattered but elegant master-of-ceremonies tail coat.''
        Ms. Zipprodt's costumes for ''The Blacks'' brought her to the attention of Jerome Robbins, who hired her when he made his debut as a director with ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad.'' He called on her again for his next show, the hit ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' From Robbins, she said, she learned how to use color to help the audience track the main characters.
        In 1990 she spent six months researching and designing more than 300 costumes for the 38-member cast of ''Shogun,'' the muscial based on the James Clavell novel about a shipwrecked 17th-century English navigator who is pivotal in a power struggle among five Japanese overlords.
        Despite a million-dollar budget, the assignment, Ms. Zipprodt said, was harder than her work on ''Sunday in the Park With George'' (1984), when the challenge was to design costumes that suggested pointillism without actually using dots; or on the 1977 Metropolitan Opera production of ''Tannhauser,'' which called for more than 200 people to appear onstage at one point.
        For ''Shogun'' Ms. Zipprodt traveled to Japan, studied the weaving industry in Kyoto that dated back to the world of ''Shogun'' and visited and photographed Kabuki theaters, samurai-movie studios, gardens, castles and textile mills.
        In New York she sought out Japanese women to consult on tradition and custom and experimented in a workshop on West 22d Street with ways to duplicate ancient decorative techniques. (The show was fated to run for only 72 performances.)
        Ms. Zipprodt was born in Chicago on Feb. 24, 1925. She was the eldest of three daughters of Agnes Irene Turpin and Herbert Edward Zipprodt, an advertising executive. In 1947 she earned a bachelor's degree from Wellesley College in Massachusetts.  After graduation, she returned to Chicago and fell in love with Lieut. Col. Robert O'Brien Jr., an Army cavalryman, but declined his proposal because she felt she must go to New York to discover if she had artistic talent.
        By the 1950's Ms. Zipprodt was living the bohemian life in New York, where she painted at the Art Students League, studied at the Fashion Institute of Technology and waited on tables at Schrafft's until her visit to the ballet altered her life forever.
        About seven or eight years ago, after Colonel O'Brien had married, retired and become a widower, he came across a biography of Ms. Zipprodt in a copy of Playbill in Washington. It mentioned that she was an artist in residence at Brandeis University's theater department. The colonel called Brandeis and asked for her phone number, which the university would not give out. So he told the university to call her and pass along a message: ''Bob O'Brien called, and I want to marry her.'' The university did as instructed.
        Ms. Zipprodt and the colonel were married on June 5, 1993. She lived in  Upperville, Va., and in New York. Colonel O'Brien died in 1998. Ms. Zipprodt was inducted into the Theatrical Hall of Fame in 1992.
        As meticulous as she might be, as committed to researching history, assessing color, collecting swatches, cords and tassels and overseeing the  construction of costumes, Ms. Zipprodt never forgot that her quest for authenticity and beauty was in the service of the hectic and sometimes harrowing institution of show business.
        ''Velcro,'' she once said, ''is our favorite word.''
      