
        Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8. She was 72 and lived in Canterbury.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Jan Stripling, a former principal dancer with the Stuttgart Ballet.
        Ms. Woolliams, who was trained in England and Germany as a dancer, gained her reputation as a distinguished ballet mistress and teacher during her years in Stuttgart from 1963 to 1975. John Cranko, who left the Royal Ballet in Britain to head the company in what was then West Germany, made her his assistant from the start. Soon after his arrival in Stuttgart, he and Ms. Woolliams founded the Stuttgart Ballet School, the first school in West Germany with an integrated program of ballet and academic classes.
        As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier. Mr. Cranko named Ms. Woolliams assistant director in 1969, the year the Stuttgart Ballet made its highly acclaimed debut in New York.
        Born in Folkestone, England, on Aug. 3, 1926, Ms. Woolliams studied modern dance as a child in Germany and ballet in England with Judith Espinosa, Noreen Bush, George Goncharov and Vera Volkova. In London she danced, in 1943, with the Kyasht Ballet and then the Russian Opera and Ballet Company, the St. James Ballet and in the film ''The Red Shoes.''
        After Cranko's death in 1973, Ms. Woolliams staged his ballets around the world and remained in Stuttgart  until 1976 when she was invited to become artistic director of the Australian Ballet. Ms. Woolliams returned to Europe in 1987. She served as artistic director of the Vienna State Opera Ballet from 1993 to 1995.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Wendy White-Tomson, and a brother, James, both of Kent, England.
      