
        Gina Berriault, an award-winning writer of short stories and novels, died on July 15 at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Sausalito, Calif.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
        With her terse prose, emotional precision and deft storytelling, Ms. Berriault was often heralded as ''a writer's writer.''
        Her 1996 collection of 35 short stories, ''Women in Their Beds,'' received critical acclaim and won the 1997 National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN/Faulkner Fiction Prize and the Rae Award for the Short Story. Tobin Harshaw, reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, wrote: ''One struggles to find a sentence that is anything less than jewel-box perfect.''
        Born Arline Shandling in Long Beach, Calif., to parents who had emigrated from Latvia and Lithuania, Ms. Berriault spent much of her childhood in Los Angeles, where her father wrote and edited trade magazines. After his death when she was a teen-ager, she took over his work to help support her family.
        She married John Berriault and settled in the San Francisco Bay Area, writing stories and magazine articles while raising a daughter. By the late 1950's, she had collected a bevy of awards in the short-story field, among them the Paris Review's Aga Khan fiction prize and two O. Henry awards.
        Her first novel, ''The Descent,'' was published in 1960. Set in America in 1964, the story described the conflict between the Secretary for Humanity, a newly created Cabinet post, and a group of people who believed that moving to underground shelters would manifest ''prepared togetherness.''
        Her second novel, ''Conference of Victims,'' about the suicide of a Congressional candidate, was published two years later, and was revised and republished in 1998 as ''Afterwards.''
        Her other novels include ''The Son'' (1966), about an incestuous relationship between a mother and her son; ''The Lights of Earth'' (1984), about a woman and her married lover. She also published two other  short-story collections, ''The Mistress'' (1965) and ''The Infinite Passion of Expectation'' (1982).
        Her short story ''The Stone Boy,'' which she adapted for the screen, was made into the 1984 film starring Robert Duvall and Glenn Close. She had recently completed a fable, ''The Great Petrowski,'' that was to be published with her own illustrations.
        She is survived by a daughter, Julie Berriault of Mill Valley, Calif., and her companion, Leonard Gardner of Sausalito.
      