
        Trudi Schoop, a popular Swiss-born comic dancer who became a pioneer in the use of dance movement to treat mental illness, died on July 14 at her home in Van Nuys, Calif. She was 95.
        Throughout the 1930's Miss Schoop was often called a female Charlie Chaplin because of the way she, like Chaplin, could combine merriment with pathos. But in the mid-40's she gave up performing to explore ways in which dance could serve as therapy for schizophrenic patients.
        The daughter of a Zurich newspaper editor, Miss Schoop was essentially self-taught, although she did take some ballet and modern-dance lessons after she had already established herself as a performer. By the early 30's she was spending much of her time traveling with her company, and she made several American tours under the auspices of the impresario Sol Hurok.
        Miss Schoop specialized in comic suites based upon the misadventures of a central figure. She played a male character who was frequently likened to Chaplin's Little Tramp in ''Fridolin on the Road.'' Reviewing its New York premiere for The New York Times in 1935, John Martin called Miss Schoop ''agreeable and clever,'' but also ''obvious and naive.'' Two years later, he was more enthusiastic about ''Blonde Marie,'' finding this depiction of an awkward but endearing servant girl notable for its ''great gusto and good humor.''
        Miss Schoop remained in Switzerland throughout World War II, often performing in anti-Fascist cabaret shows. When the war ended, she resumed touring, offering a New York season in 1947. Soon thereafter she settled in the Los Angeles area and began a second career as a therapist.
        Working with several California medical institutions, including Camarillo State Mental Hospital, she developed what she called ''body-ego technique,'' which used movement to help lead patients out of isolation so that they could respond to, rather than shrink from, human contact.
        No immediate family members survive.
      