
        Barbara Raskin, author of the best-selling 1987 novel ''Hot Flashes,'' about the concerns of her generation of women, died on Friday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. She was 63 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications after vascular surgery, said her former husband Marcus Raskin.
        Ms. Raskin won praise for ''Hot Flashes,'' which is about three middle-aged women who come together to mourn and commemorate the death of a female friend.
        Cosmopolitan magazine, which called the book ''a novel so entertaining you'll be annoyed to have it end,'' also said: ''Every once in a while, a novelist comes along whose eye for detail is so precise that you wonder if she's read your private journal. Barbara Raskin is such a writer.''
        West Coast Review of Books called the book ''enchanting, entrancing, ennobling, all-encompassing.''
        The Los Angeles Times said Ms. Raskin made ''the menopausal hot flash a metaphor for sudden understanding of all the changes'' women of her generation experienced: ''marrying in the quiet 50's, raising kids and feeling stifled in the explosive 60's, getting divorced in the 70's, finding themselves in the 80's.''
        But Judith Rascoe, reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, panned its female characters as ''raging narcissists'' who ''want it all.''
        ''Hot Flashes'' was on the hardcover and paperback best-seller lists of The New York Times for a total of 20 weeks, and a movie version is to be filmed this fall.
        In an interview, Ms. Raskin said of ''Hot Flashes'': ''I wrote the story I knew. I didn't set out to write a manifesto. I did want to articulate and define a little bit my friends, women I am part of. We had such bad deals along the way, out of sync from the beginning, missing things by five years. I didn't want us to get swept under the historical carpet and not be recognized at all.''
        Her other writings included the novel ''Current Affairs'' (1990, Random House), which Linda Wertheimer, in The New York Times Book Review, called ''stylish and slangy, written in a wild and wordy prose that is engaging and catchy,'' but not as good as ''Hot Flashes.''
        Ms. Raskin also wrote for numerous publications, including The New York Times, and was active in writers' groups. She was given a fiction award by the National Endowment for the Arts.
        Barbara Bellman, as she was then, was born and reared in Minneapolis and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and a master's degree from the University of Chicago; she did doctoral work at Catholic University.
        She was a Delta Airlines flight attendant in 1956 and 1957 and later taught English at Catholic and Georgetown Universities and other institutions in the Washington area.
        Her 1957 marriage to Mr. Raskin ended in divorce, as did her 1984 marriage to Anatole Shub.
        She is survived by a daughter, Erika Littlewood of Richmond; two sons, Jamin Ben, of Takoma Park, Md., and Noah A., of Vienna, Va.; seven grandchildren, and a brother, Richard Bellman of Manhattan.
      