
        Marguerite W. Cullman, a longtime theatrical investor who was also an author, died yesterday in her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 94, and her main residence was in Purchase, N.Y.
        After working as an editor of the old Stage magazine, Mrs. Cullman began investing with her husband, Howard S. Cullman, who was chairman of what was then called the Port of New York Authority and was prominent in the tobacco industry, serving on the board of Philip Morris  Inc. He died in 1972.
        The couple began investing in Broadway productions in the 1930's because, as their children said yesterday, while Mrs. Cullman worked at Stage she liked to be sure that a play the magazine wrote about would not fold before the next issue appeared.
        As a family story has it, Mrs. Cullman proved prescient in guessing on behalf of the magazine which plays would prove durable. When her husband learned that, he proposed that she read the scripts of forthcoming Broadway productions and he study the financial prospectuses issued by their producers.
        After Mrs. Cullman left the magazine, the couple began their investing, which continued into the 1970's and brought them renown for their shrewdness and energy.
        Robert Whitehead, the theatrical producer, recalled last night, ''I could see that she got a kick out of the theater and a kick out of being associated with it through investment.''
        Among the hits that the Cullmans helped bring to the stage were ''Life With Father,'' ''Oklahoma!,'' ''Carousel,'' ''Brigadoon,'' ''South Pacific,'' ''Annie Get Your Gun,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' ''Teahouse of the August Moon,'' ''Death of Salesman'' and ''A Streetcar Named Desire.''
        During the 1940's and 1950's, their children said, the couple's success rate was so high that their participation in a forthcoming show was enough to guarantee its full funding.
        Marguerite Sanders, as she then was, was born and reared in Manhattan, attended Columbia University, worked as a writer and editor for the McNaught Newspaper Syndicate and contributed articles to The New York Times Magazine, The New Yorker and other publications.
        In addition, she wrote two books, ''Occupation Angel'' (1962), about Broadway, and ''Ninety Dozen Glasses'' (1960), about her life with Mr. Cullman in 1958, when he was the United States Commissioner for the World's Fair in Brussels.
        She was also vice chairman of the Lighthouse for the Blind and served on the board of the Spence-Chapin Home for Adoption.
        An early marriage was annulled. She married Mr. Cullman in 1935.
        She is survived by a daughter, Marguerite P. Cullman of Severna Park, Md.; a son, Brian Henry Cullman of Manhattan; two stepsons, Hugh Cullman of Beaufort, N.C., and Paul T. Cullman of Ferndale, Wash.; 12 grandchildren and 25 great-grandchildren.
      