
        Dr. Katherine Bain, a pediatrician who became a high-ranking and an outspoken Washington official concerned with the well-being of infants and children, died on Jan. 10 in a Washington nursing home she entered in October. She was 101 and had lived in Washington since 1940.
        Dr. Bain's family said that she was the author or a co-author of reports that led to the development of child-proof safety caps for medicines and for chemicals in the home, safety-release standards for the doors of refrigerators in order to keep children from being trapped and suffocated, and some of the first Federal guidelines for the nutrition of children.
        Her family said that she had carried out a pioneering survey of breast-feeding practices in American hospitals' nurseries and that her findings had led to changes in doctors' opinions of nursing.
        In 1940, she joined the Children's Bureau, an agency that was then part of the Department of Labor and is now part of the Department of Health and Human Services. She was the bureau's deputy chief from 1958 to 1964 and became assistant to the director of the Public Health Service in a reorganization in 1969. She devoted herself to children's welfare issues in foreign countries for the next four years and retired.
        In a report in The Journal of Pediatrics in 1954, Dr. Bain presented statistics that pointed up the carelessness of American families in protecting children in the home.
        Analyzing data supplied by the National Office of Vital Statistics, she said that 400 children under the age of 5 died each year in the United States from accidental poisoning. That rate was four times the rate reported for England and Wales.
        Two-thirds of the deaths from accidental poisoning could be prevented, Dr. Bain said, if aspirin, barbiturates, kerosene, lye, lead and arsenic compounds were kept out of the hands of small children.
        In a report issued in 1944, Dr. Bain said that World War II had intensified the need for regular advice to mothers on how to keep their babies well. ''We have a bumper crop of babies,'' she said. ''Nearly three million will be born in the United States this year. At the same time we have a shortage of doctors and nurses for the civilian population. About 50 percent of our younger practicing physicians have gone into the armed forces.'' Dr. Bain said the United States would have to work hard and fast to increase its number of clinics aimed at keeping babies well.
        After the war, she bemoaned disparities in medical care available in different parts of the United States. Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.''
        ''One can only conclude,'' Dr. Bain added, ''that children in Alabama are receiving at the most only one-half as much care as they need.''
        The honors Dr. Bain received included an award in 1960 from the New York Infirmary for work she had done in pediatrics and public health.
        Dr. Bain was born in St. Louis, received a bachelor's degree in 1920 from the University of Missouri and her medical degree in 1925 from Washington University in St. Louis. She spent 13 years in private pediatric practice in St. Louis before going to Washington.
        She is survived by several nieces and nephews.
      