
        Helen Forrest, the big-band singer whose dreamy hits with the Harry James orchestra distilled the nostalgic spirit of World War II pop, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 82.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, The Associated Press reported.
        Known as ''the voice of the name bands,'' Ms. Forrest became a leading vocalist in 1938 when she replaced Billie Holiday as the singer with Artie Shaw's orchestra. She also worked with Benny Goodman (1939-41) and James (1941-43) before going solo in 1944. In 1940 Ms. Forrest, who was white, broke precedent to record a single (''I Don't Stand a Ghost of a Chance With You'') with the black band leader Lionel Hampton.
        Ms. Forrest's recordings with Shaw included ''Any Old Time,'' ''I'm in Love With the Honorable Mr. So and So,'' ''They Say,'' ''Thanks for Everything'' and ''All the Things You Are.'' Among her recordings with Goodman were ''The Man I Love,'' ''Taking a Chance on Love'' and ''More Than You Know.''
        In 1941 she reached a peak of popularity with James, singing the No. 1 wartime hits ''I've Heard That Song Before,'' ''I Don't Want to Walk Without You'' and her signature song, ''I Had the Craziest Dream'' (the title of her 1982 autobiography).
        Born Helen Fogel in Atlantic City, Ms. Forrest performed regularly as a young girl on the New York City radio station WNEW. That led to a job on CBS Radio singing with the trumpeter Bunny Berigan. Shaw heard her one night at the Madrillon Club in Washington and invited her to replace Holiday, who, weary of racial indignities suffered on the road, had decided to quit the band.
        Ms. Forrest recorded 38 singles for Shaw, and when he briefly disbanded his orchestra in 1939, she moved to Goodman's band, which was not known for being hospitable to vocalists.
        Quitting in 1941, she got in touch with James, who gave her a larger-than-usual role in his band and even had his arrangers beef up the orchestrations with violins. The result was a creamy voice-and-trumpet sound, at once spunky and wistful, that captured the wartime longing of women separated from their husbands.
        Ms. Forrest's relationship with James, which was romantic as well as professional, disintegrated when he met Betty Grable, whom he later married, while making the movie ''Springtime in the Rockies.''
        Married and divorced three times, Ms. Forrest is survived by a son, Forrest Feinman.
        Going solo in 1944, Ms. Forrest teamed up with the crooner Dick Haymes to record a series of Top 10 duets that included ''Long Ago and Far Away,'' ''It Had to Be You,'' ''Together,'' ''I'll Buy That Dream,'' ''Some Sunday Morning,'' ''I'm Always Chasing Rainbows'' and ''Oh! What it Seemed to Be.''
        In addition to recording and touring, Ms. Forrest made several film shorts with Shaw and appeared in several features with James, including ''Private Buckaroo'' (in which she sang ''You Made Me Love You''), ''Bathing Beauty'' and ''Best Foot Forward.''
        As the big band era waned, she sang in supper clubs and on the radio, and from 1944 to 1948 she and Haymes starred together in a popular weekly radio show. But unlike Ella Fitzgerald, Doris Day, Peggy Lee and other big-band singers who developed solo careers in the late 40's and 50's, Ms. Forrest was unable to make the transition, and after the 1950's remained a much-loved vocal touchstone to an earlier era.
        In 1964 she toured the United States with Frank Sinatra Jr. and the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, and in the late 60's she was reunited with James for an album. A decade later, she joined James, Haymes, the Pied Pipers and the Ink Spots in a touring nostalgia revue, ''The Big Broadcast of 1944.'' Her last album was released on the Stash label in 1983.
        Correction:  July 19, 1999, Monday  An obituary of the big-band singer Helen Forrest on Tuesday included a credit erroneously in her recording history with Artie Shaw. It was Billie Holiday, not Ms. Forrest, who recorded ''Any Old Time'' with the Shaw orchestra.
      