
        Sherley Anne Williams, a daughter of migrant workers who became an award-winning novelist, poet and playwright as well as a professor at the University of California, died on July 6 at a hospital in San Diego. She was 54 and lived in San Diego.
        The cause was cancer, Kate Callen, a university spokeswoman, said.
        Ms. Williams fused her experiences in the dusty cotton fields and fruit orchards of the San Joaquin Valley with historical research to articulate the African-American experience.
        In 1986, when she was already a celebrated poet, she ventured successfully into fiction with the historical novel ''Dessa Rose.''
        A story of relationships, particularly the one between a privileged Charleston bride and a young pregnant slave sentenced to die after the birth of her baby, the work was praised by David Bradley in The New York Times as ''artistically brilliant, emotionally affecting and totally unforgettable.''
        Ms. Williams's language, infused with rhythm and image, transcended the boundaries of genre.
        ''While Ms. Williams shows that she can write a novel better than a lot of novelists, nowhere does she cut herself off from her poetic roots,'' wrote Mr. Bradley, citing a passage in which the character Dessa recalls her lover, Kaine:
        ''Kaine, his voice high and clear as running water over a settled stream bed, swooping to her through her. . . . He walked the lane between the indifferently rowed cabins like he owned them, striding from shade into half-light as if he could halt the setting sun. . . . Talk as beautiful as his touch. . . . Kaine's eyes had been the color of lemon tea and honey. Even now against closed eyelids, she could see them.''
        At her death, Ms. Williams was working on a sequel to ''Dessa Rose'' and on a novel set in the 20th century.
        Her first book of verse, ''The Peacock Poems,'' was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award in 1975.
        She won an Emmy Award for a television performance of poems from her second book of verse, ''Some One Sweet Angel Chile,'' which was another National Book Award nominee. Her one-woman drama, ''Letters From a New England Negro,'' was performed at the National Black Theater Festival in 1991 and at the Chicago International Theater Festival in 1992.
        ''Working Cotton,'' a 1992 children's tale, won an American Library Association Caldecott Award and a Coretta Scott King Book Award, and was listed among the best books of 1992 by Parents magazine. Ms. Williams had recently published a second children's book, ''Girls Together.''
        Born in Bakersfield, Calif., she grew up in Fresno, where her family worked as migrant workers. Her father died when she was 8, her mother when she was 16. After that she survived by picking crops in the same fields where her parents had toiled. Her upbringing, she later said, ''was the most deprived, provincial kind of existence you can think of.''
        Though an impassioned reader, Ms. Williams had been discouraged from that activity by her mother, who felt she might be introduced to ambitions she would have no possibility of fulfilling. But in the eighth grade, a science teacher saw promise and urged her to enroll in college preparatory courses. In high school, she realized a love of language and was encouraged to apply to college.
        The change was unsettling, she later recounted. ''To go from having no prospects at all to having seemingly limitless opportunity . . . well, in my case, I feel I just wasn't prepared for seemingly limitless opportunity.''
        As a freshman at Fresno State University, she discovered the work of Langston Hughes and Sterling Brown, who she claimed were her earliest influences. ''I was just captivated by their language, their speech and their character because I always liked the way black people talk,'' she said. ''So I wanted to work that in writing.''
        After completing a master's degree in American literature at Brown University, she joined the literature department at the University of California at San Diego in 1973 and remained there until shortly before her death.
        She is survived by a son, John Malcolm Stewart of Lancaster, Calif.; a sister, Ruby Birdson, and three grandchildren.
      