
        Joan Wight, the widow of the Yorkshire veterinarian who wrote under the name James Herriot and the model for a character in his books and television programs based on them, died on Wednesday. She was in her 80's.
        Ms. Wight's health slowly declined after her husband died in 1995 at age 78, said Thomas McCormack, the former editor in chief of St. Martin's Press, which published the first five Herriot books.
        Her husband, whose real name was James Alfred Wight, vividly depicted his wife as the endearing and supportive Helen Herriot in his memoirs, beginning with ''All Creatures Great and Small.'' Mr. McCormack described Ms. Wight as the model for ''the humorous, loving and, from time to time, tolerating wife of James Herriot.''
        ''All Creatures Great and Small'' became the basis for a long-running television series, which was originally a BBC-TV production and later a cable television series in the United States. Its accounts of rural life attracted an audience of millions around the world.
        On television, Helen was played first by Carol Drinkwater and later by Lynda Bellingham. In a 1979 movie, ''All Things Bright and Beautiful,'' Helen was portrayed by Lisa Harrow.
        Although ''All Creatures Great and Small'' became a best seller, it was not reviewed until months after its publication, when strongly positive word-of-mouth reports had begun to make it famous.
        One episode in the first Herriot book describes how Ms. Wight met her future husband. She grew up on a farm in Yorkshire not far from ''the surgery,'' as Mr. Wight's veterinary hospital was known.
        One day, she brought in a calf with a broken leg. Mr. Wight repaired the damage with a splint. Later, she brought in a dog with a dislocated hip, and this time, he had eyes only for her. They soon became engaged.
        ''A characteristic scene comes in the final chapter of 'All Creatures Great and Small,' '' Mr. McCormack said. ''The scene tells of Joan's and James's honeymoon, which is interrupted by a sudden, mad crush of work, which kills their hope of taking a trip. As Joan sits with notebook on her knee and pencil at the ready, she smiles. It was a magnificent, loving ending.''
        Ms. Wight is survived by a son, James, and a daughter, Rosemary Page, both of Yorkshire in northern England.
      