
        Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 and the last of the Gershwin siblings.
        In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly older brother, Arthur, inherited their share of the Gershwin genes, but when one older brother is one of the century's most acclaimed composers and another is among its most lionized lyricists, it is hard to measure up.
        Not that Mrs. Godowsky didn't have her moments. An accomplished dancer who toured at 11 in a children's musical, ''Daintyland,'' she never let George and Ira forget that when they were grateful for $15 paychecks from Tin Pan Alley, she was the family's first big breadwinner -- never mind that most of her $40 weekly salary went to pay expenses.
        Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 26, 1906, 10 years to the day after her oldest brother, Ira, Mrs. Godowsky had a peripatetic childhood as her father, Morris, a man with an eclectic personnel file, repeatedly moved the family to be near his latest job. (Ira once calculated that between 1900 and 1917 the family lived in 28 apartments, 25 in Manhattan and 3 in Brooklyn.)
        Although she sang in a couple of Broadway shows in the late 1920's, by the time the family moved into the house on West 103d Street made famous in the 1945 biographical movie, ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' Mrs. Godowsky seemed resigned to tailoring her career to her older brothers'.
        Frequently summoned to George's lair on the fifth floor, she was often the first to sing Gershwin songs that would later be Broadway hits, and when George was in rehearsal for ''Lady Be Good,'' brother and sister would try out steps he had learned from the show's star, Fred Astaire.
        Although her husky voice was small by stage standards of the day, George, who loved her interpretations of his sometimes complicated music, particularly the way she kept the rhythm going, made her his personal chanteuse, and the two entertained at countless flapper-era parties in New York and elsewhere.
        In time, Mrs. Godowsky was glad enough to accept the benefits of being his beloved little sister.
        In one episode in early 1928, Mrs. Godowsky, who was dating a boring doctor at the time, begged George to let her tag along on a European trip he and Ira were planning.
        By the time she returned six months later, Mrs. Godowsky had so wowed Cole Porter at a party Elsa Maxwell gave in Paris that he designed a show for her at the storied nightclub Les Ambassadeurs, where she sang Gershwin tunes with George as her accompanist.
        The limited engagement drew her a flood of professional offers, but George insisted she return with the rest of the party.
        By then she had fallen in love with one of George's poker cronies, Leopold Godowsky Jr., the son of the celebrated Austrian pianist.
        They married in 1930 and settled in Rochester, N.Y., where Mr. Godowsky helped invent Kodachrome, the acclaimed slide film.
        Mrs. Godowsky, who had been her brother George's tryout singer, played a similar role for her husband, posing in bright red beret and bottle-green dress as a photographic test subject.
        Soon after George's death in 1937, the couple moved to Westport, Conn.,  where Mrs. Godowsky, who had begun sculpturing in Rochester, hit her own artistic stride. She took up painting and turned out hundreds of well-received oils and acrylics.
        The success of her painting helped soften the blow when the movie ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' came out in 1945 and excised her and Arthur from the Gershwin family. Arthur died in 1981.
        Although painting remained her main artistic outlet, in her later years Mrs. Godowsky re-emerged as a singer. Her 1975 album, ''Frances Sings for George and Ira,'' won wide acclaim, and after a granddaughter suggested she get vocal training, she began a long-deferred professional career, singing Gershwin tunes at the Lambs Club and elsewhere until two years ago.
        Mrs. Godowsky, whose husband and brother Ira both died in 1983, is survived by a son, Leopold 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Alexis Gershwin of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Georgia Keidan of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Nadia Natali of Ojai, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about Frances Gershwin Godowsky, an artist and the sister of George Gershwin, misstated the nationality of her father-in-law, the pianist Leopold Godowsky. He was born outside Vilna, in an area that once belonged to Poland but was then part of Russia and is now in Lithuania; he was not Austrian.
      