
        Vera Krasovskaya, the dean of Russian ballet historians and a ballet writer who was highly respected in the West, died on Sunday at her home in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 83.
        Ms. Krasovskaya came to ballet writing after a career as a dancer. She trained at the Leningrad Choreographic School, where she studied with the ballet pedagogue Agrippina Vagonova, and performed with the Kirov Ballet from 1933 to 1941. Her first writing on dance was published in 1941. She went on to study at the Leningrad Ostrovsky Institute of the Theater in 1946 and joined its faculty in 1951. She received a doctorate in art criticism in 1955.
        Ms. Krasovskaya did not mince words as a critic. ''No ballet production can be fossilized,'' she wrote in a review of the recent Kirov Ballet revival of Marius Petipa's ''Sleeping Beauty'' that was reprinted in the August edition of the English journal Dancing Times in a translation by Igor Stupnikov. ''Now the company tries to revive what was created more than 100 years ago,'' Ms. Krasovskaya wrote. ''But it cannot pan out. The idea itself is wrong.''
        ''Petipa wrote that any ballet, like a human being, is continually changing and developing,'' she added. ''I believe that a ballet production can preserve the delicate aroma of the past and its inherent energy but it cannot be fossilized.''
        She wrote about dancers, choreographers and ballet company seasons for Soviet and foreign ballet periodicals. She was a leader in a movement in the 1950's that advocated fresh approaches to dance at a time when  some rebelled against an emphasis on drama in ballet. She developed as a ballet historian as older historians were beginning a systematic study of the Russian ballet history.
        Her greatest achievements were considered to be her two four-volume histories. The first, ''Ballet Theater in Russia,'' was published in 1958 to 1972 and assessed the principles and work of Petipa, Michel Fokine and other Russian choreographers. The book provided the basis for a textbook, ''The History of Russian Ballet,'' published in 1978. Her second major history, considered her culminating work, was the four-volume ''Western European Ballet Theater,'' completed in 1996. It was the first comprehensive history of ballet outside Russia to appear in Russian since 1917.
        She also wrote biographies of Anna Pavlova, Vaslav Nijinsky, Vagonova and the dancer Nikita Dolgushin. Her biography of Nijinsky, called ''Nijinsky,'' was published in the United States in 1979. It was her only book to be published in America and received mixed reviews. In 1989 she made her first and only trip to the United States, delivering scholarly papers at a Balanchine Conference in Miami and at New York University. She contributed to many major reference books on ballet. In January, she received the privately awarded Triumph Prize, given in Russia for achievement in the arts and literature. It was the first time the award has been given for work in dance.
        She is survived by her husband, David Zolotnitsky; a brother, Yuri; a son, Yuri, and a stepdaughter, Tatiana Zolotnitsky, all of St. Petersburg.
      