
        Barbara White Fishman, an art director at advertising agencies who developed breast cancer and became a benefactor of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died Thursday at the center. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan and in Remsenburg, N.Y., where she kept a studio.
        The cause was the breast cancer she had fought since it was diagnosed in 1985, her family said.
        Ms. White, who was known professionally by her maiden name, once said in an interview that the illness ''refocused my energies to help others.''
        She gave $5 million to Sloan-Kettering to renovate its 42-bed Women's Inpatient Center for the diagnosis and treatment of gynecological cancers. She helped design and decorate the center to create a soothing atmosphere, and to provide library space with computers and a lounge. The center, opened in late 1997, bears her name and is decorated with her photographs and paintings.
        She was responsible for the Barbara White Fishman Breast Cancer Counseling Program at Sloan-Kettering. It offers individual and group counseling, including art therapy, to women with breast cancer.
        Ms. White was known as the ''art angel'' at the La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts in Manhattan. She was a board member of the Friends of La Guardia and provided money so hundreds of needy art students could buy  supplies and obtain scholarships for summer courses at the Art Students  League of New York.
        Ms. White also helped students from poor neighborhoods take summer arts classes at the Vermont Studio Center, and she was a chairwoman of its board. She financed art scholarships for students at Northfield Mount Hermon School in Massachusetts.
        Ms. White, a native of New York, was a 1960 graduate of the Cooper Union School of Art and was a trustee of the school. At Cooper Union, she endowed a program that helps visiting art scholars and art critics.
        Professionally, Ms. White designed fabrics for a textile company and designed album covers and liner notes for CBS Records. She held executive positions at various advertising agencies.
        Ms. White's marriage to Dr. Jack Fishman ended in divorce. She is survived by three sons, Neil, Leslie and Daniel Fishman, all of Manhattan; a sister, Mimi Inorio of Clinton, Conn., and her companion, Jack Talan of Manhattan.
        Correction:  August 30, 1999, Monday  An obituary last Monday of Barbara White Fishman, an advertising art director and a benefactor of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, misstated the date of her death and the name of an organization for which she was a board member. She died on Aug. 12, not Aug. 19. The organization is the Alumni and Friends of La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts, not the Friends of La Guardia.
      