
        Patricia Beer, a British poet concerned with death, theology and the mysteries of everyday existence,  died on Aug. 15. She was 79.
        The cause and place of her death were unavailable.
        Ms. Beer was among the few candidates for successor to Ted Hughes,  Britain's poet laureate, who died in October.
        Her poems have been described by  critics and scholars as sly, dry, ironic and economical with well-observed landscapes. Occasionally they were also called prosaic, gloomy, flat and almost housewifely.
        Andrew Motion, Britain's new poet laureate, reviewing her ''Selected Poems'' in The New Statesman in 1980, said Ms. Beer ''admits to having been 'a child who dared not seem/Gloomy,' but over the years she has become increasingly prepared to say what she feels. The fear of death and the lack of absolute religious security have proved more than a match for her instinct to explain and placate.''
        Ms. Beer's themes often included theology, mortality and daily existence. In ''Middle Age'' she wrote:
        Everywhere I look it is the same,
        The churchyard or the other side of the bed.
        The one who is not lying there
        Could have been.
        And in the poem ''Home,'' she wrote:
        Out of the window
        I see the opposite roofs
        Fitting well like ours.
        This house is as warm
        And secure as bath water.
        Yet very often
        Through the double glazing
        I imagine people crying,
        Somewhere out there.
        In ''Reader, I Married Him'' (1975), a study of the female characters of Charlotte Bronte, Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell and George Eliot, Ms. Beer ''demonstrates with wit, wide knowledge and a bare minimum of footnotes that even the greatest of women novelists were enthralled by the need of preserving the superior position of men,'' wrote Carolyn G. Heilbrun in The New York Times Book Review.
        Her first volume of poetry, ''The Loss of the Magyar,'' was published in 1959. Among her other books of poetry were ''The Survivors'' (1963), ''The Resurrection'' (1967), ''The Estuary'' (1971), ''Driving West''  (1975), ''Poems'' (1979), ''The Lie of the Land'' (1983), ''Collected Poems'' (1989), ''Friend of Heraclitus''  (1993) and ''Autumn'' (1997).
        She also wrote a novel, ''Moon's Ottery'' (1978), and a childhood memoir, ''Mrs. Beer's House'' (1968), about her upbringing in a family of Christian fundamentalists.
        Patricia Beer was born on Nov. 4, 1919, in Exmouth, Devon. She was brought up by members of the strict Plymouth Brethren sect; her first poems were hymns. She went to Exeter University and received a degree in literature from Oxford University. She taught English at the University of Padua in Italy from 1947 to 1949, and at the British Institute in Rome from 1949 to 1951.
        She returned to England in 1953 and taught at the University of London. She also reviewed books for The Daily Telegraph in the 1980's and  contributed to The London Review of Books.
        Her first marriage ended in divorce. In 1964, she married John Damien Parsons, an architect, who survives her.
      