
        Dr. Judith Silberpfennig Kestenberg, a psychoanalyst specializing in child development and the emotional state of Holocaust survivors and their children, died Saturday at her home in Sands Point, N.Y. She was 88.
        Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30 years ago, and Holocaust Child Survivor Studies, both based in Sands Point. With her husband, Milton, she started the research center's International Study of the Organized Persecution of Children.
        She and her associates traveled all over the world to collect taped interviews with more than 1,500 child survivors of the Holocaust and their children, as well as the children of Nazis. Fluent in French, German and Polish, she wrote two German books used to teach German children about the Holocaust.
        Judith Silberpfennig was born in Tarnov, Poland, and trained in medicine, neurology and psychiatry in Vienna. She came to New York in 1937 and completed her training at Bellevue Hospital and the New York Psychological Institute.
        Her husband was born in Lodz, Poland, and became a lawyer there before coming to the United States in 1939. He managed real estate in New York and, after World War II, sued in German courts to seek compensation for Holocaust victims and also organized aid for their children.
        They were married in the mid-1940's and became a team in their Holocaust pursuits when he started representing the victims, especially children, before the courts and found that many of them had only vague memories of their ordeals.
        Dr. Kestenberg, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical School, taught generations of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts on development, mental health and dance-movement therapy. She also was on the staff and faculty at Long Island Jewish Hospital.
        She published seven books and some 150 professional articles. Most recently she edited, with Dr. Charlotte Kahn, ''Children Surviving Persecution: An International Study of Trauma and Healing'' (Greenwood, 1998).
        Her other books in print include ''Sexuality, Body Movement and the Rhythms of Development'' (Aronson, 1995); with Dr. Ira Brenner, ''The Last Witness: The Child Survivor of the Holocaust'' (American Psychiatric Press, 1996), and, as editor with Dr. Eva Fogelman, ''Children During the Nazi Reign: Psychological Perspective on the Interview Process'' (Greenwood, 1994).
        Milton Kestenberg died in 1991. Dr. Kestenberg is survived by a son, Howard, of Foxborough, Mass.; a daughter, Janet Kestenberg of West Chester, Pa., and four grandchildren.
        Her work at Child Development Research is being continued by Dr. Fogelman and associates.
      