
        Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa.
        A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulkeways Continuing Care Community in Gwynedd after a stroke in 1980. She retired that year from Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing, where she was a professor for many years.
        Ms. Schwartz's familiarity with the debilities of old age stemmed from her years as an Army nurse in World War II, when she tended to wounded soldiers with similar afflictions. Her work continued even after she began to use a wheelchair.
        After moving to the retirement center, she initiated research by the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing into the use of physical restraints on patients in nursing homes and hospitals; her work led to changes in restraint procedures.
        Ms. Schwartz wrote an autobiography, ''My Fifty Years in Nursing: Give Us to Go Blithely'' (Springer; 2d ed., 1995), which remains in print.
        In the weeks before her death, she had been working on a book about the 55 people who most influenced her career.
        Doris Schwartz was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the Central Methodist Hospital School of Nursing there in 1942. She enlisted in the Army Nurse Corps and served in the Pacific and, after the war, at a military rehabilitation center in Battle Creek, Mich., rising to the rank of captain.
        She then worked as a public health nurse in the Visiting Nurse Service with babies and new mothers in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn into the 1950's. She became an adviser to the Teaching Nursing Home Program of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
        She was a member of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Science and co-director of two groundbreaking programs to train geriatric and family nurse practitioners at Cornell University-New York Hospital. There she taught staff members and worked with victims of strokes and dementia.
        A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
        Ms. Schwartz leaves no immediate survivors.
      