
        Elizabeth Forsling Harris, who was briefly the first publisher of Ms. magazine, died on July 14 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 77.
        She died in a hospital of complications from emphysema, said a friend, Patricia Reilly.
        Ms. Harris helped start Ms. magazine in late 1971, but she left after the first issue, citing disagreement on a wide range of issues.
        In 1975, she filed a suit for $1.7 million against the first editor of Ms., Gloria Steinem, and Pat Carbine, the publisher, contending that they had fraudulently misrepresented the value of the magazine's stock. The suit was dismissed.
        After Ms. magazine, Ms. Harris worked in the early days of cable television, developing a shopping service called Cable Catalog with Neiman Marcus. In 1976, she became the publisher of Working Woman. In the early 1980's, she was a deputy commissioner at the New York State Department of Commerce.
        Ms. Harris was born in Greeneville, Tenn., on Jan. 8, 1922, and graduated from Mount Vernon College in Washington.
        In 1941, she took a job at Newsweek in New York as a researcher. She later became a radio and television editor. In 1951, she joined ABC, where she produced a program featuring Walter Winchell, and was one of the network's first programming executives.
        Two years later, she left to start her own public relations company in Dallas, where she remained through the late 1950's, until she became a special consultant for Arthur Godfrey Productions in New York.
        In 1961, she was the deputy associate director of the Peace Corps. She returned to Dallas in July 1963 and was the local White House liaison for President John F. Kennedy's visit on Nov. 22, 1963.
        After the Kennedy assassination, she returned to Washington, where she again worked for the Peace Corps and the Democratic National Committee.
        She later worked for the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. in New York, the Urban Institute research organization in Washington and CRM Inc., in Del Mar, Calif., the publisher of Psychology Today.
        Ms. Harris was the first president of the Women's Forum, a networking organization, served on the board of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and was a trustee of Mount Vernon College and Tusculum College in Tusculum, Tenn.
        No immediate survivors were reported.
      