
        Shulamit Katznelson, who was awarded the 1986 Israel Prize for Life Achievement, her country's highest honor, for bringing Arabs and Jews together through learning each other's languages, died yesterday at her home in the coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv. She was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
        For nearly half a century, Ms. Katznelson taught Hebrew to Arabs and Arabic to Jews at Ulpan Akiva, an independent residential language school she founded in Netanya in 1951. Arabs and Jews often room together at the school to help break down psychological barriers.
        ''We are perhaps naive in trying to approach the problems of the region in this way,'' she said recently. ''But we believe that the firm foundations necessary to build and consolidate peace can only come about through person-to-person contacts and the ability of each side to speak the other's language.''
        She added that many of the Jews and Arabs who attend the intensive six-week live-in course in a former hotel complex became friends and remained in touch with each other.
        The school philosophy includes Ms. Katznelson's conviction that language cannot be separated from culture. Of the five hours of lessons each day in Hebrew, one hour is spent learning about Judaism and Jewish history. Likewise, the course in Arabic includes the study of Islam and Arab history as well as visits to Arab villages.
        Ms. Katznelson was born in Geneva in 1919, and her family immigrated to Palestine two years later. Her mother, Bat-Sheva, became a legislator in Israel's Parliament. Her brother, Shmuel Tamir, served as Justice Minister, and an uncle, Zalman Shazar, was Israel's third President.
        Ms. Katznelson attended high school and a teacher's college in Jerusalem, then attended a master's program at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
        From the start, the program at Ulpan Akiva taught not only Jewish immigrants, but also Israel's Arab citizens and visitors from around the world.
        Nearly 100,000 people from 148 countries have studied at the school in the last five decades, among them ambassadors, Israeli Army officers and Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Ulpan Akiva set up two branch offices in the Gaza Strip towns of Gaza City and Khan Yunis.
        Ms. Katznelson retired two years ago, and was succeeded at the school by Ephraim Lapid, a former Israeli brigadier general.
      