
        Kathryn Murray, the hostess of ''The Arthur Murray Party,'' which used comedy and celebrity to sell ballroom dancing to the masses in television's infancy, died on Friday at her home in Honolulu. She was 92.
        Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empire built by her late husband, Arthur Murray, and played such an important part in promoting their ''dancing in a hurry'' business that the entertainer Sam Levenson joked that Mr. Murray had become rich ''by the sweat of his frau.''
        ''The Arthur Murray Party'' ran intermittently from 1950 to 1960 on the three commercial networks and on the old DuMont network. Luminaries of sport and stage joined in songs, skits and contests, and at the end of each episode, Mrs. Murray told her audience: ''Put a little fun into your life. Try dancing.''
        Then she turned, held up her arms to Mr. Murray, and he waltzed her away.
        Mrs. Murray made sport of herself for her on-air pronunciation of ''party'' as ''pahty,'' and blithely repeated the critics' assessment that she ''talked too fast, smiled too often and wore unimpressive gowns.''
        Robert J. Thompson, the founding director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television, at Syracuse University, said the Murrays ''literally danced an era out'' by drawing families together for quaint variety acts, before rock-and-roll began to fragment audiences. He said that another way to look at the show was as a pioneering infomercial -- ''one big advertisement for people to go to the studios.''
        Indeed, the studios were as much about sales as they were about the cha-cha or tango, and it was Mrs. Murray who wrote the training manuals for the franchises, including the lucrative advice, ''Don't try to teach a whole course in one lesson.'' The Murrays and the business signed a consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission in 1960 promising to stop using high-pressure tactics to sell dance courses.
        Mrs. Murray liked to tell about the time she got carried away with a prospective student. ''We tangoed, we waltzed, we pivoted and chassed,'' she said. ''Rumba music filled our cubicle, and I did an open swivel and flirtation scallop, then a jitterbug and a Hollywood Lindy.''
        The prospect fled in a sweat, and she used the tale to remind instructors to teach, not show off.
        Mrs. Murray was born Kathryn Kohnfelder in Jersey City on Sept. 15, 1906. Her father, Abraham Kohnfelder, was a newspaper advertising manager. She graduated from high school at 15, earned a teaching certificate, then was introduced to Mr. Murray when she and a friend went to a radio station where he was teaching dance steps over the air.
        She was 18, and he was 29. They married three months later.
        Mr. Murray started by selling mail-order instructions -- all dotted lines, arrows and outlines of shoes -- and taught a ''magic step'' that he said could be used 30 ways. The couple built their empire to 500 studios by the time they sold the business. The television show took them to new heights of success. They continued to manage the business until 1964.
        The Murrays were constantly mentioned in the newspapers because of their glamorous lives and complex business affairs. After they tired of suburban life in Harrison, N.Y., they lived mostly in hotels in New York and California. Then Mrs. Murray wanted a kitchen, and they bought an apartment on Park Avenue.
        Still, they dined out almost every night with notables from radio, theater and publishing. About once a week, they dropped into Broadway dance halls to watch Latin and other dancers for moves that could be simplified for middle America. The Murrays arrived quietly but usually were instantly recognized. In 1968, they moved to the Honolulu penthouse where Mrs. Murray died.
        She wrote two books, ''My Husband, Arthur Murray,'' with Betty Hannah Hoffman, in 1960, and ''Family Laugh Lines,'' a collection of anecdotes about celebrity friends, in 1966.
        Mr. Murray died in 1991, a month before the couple's 66th wedding anniversary.
        Mrs. Murray is survived by twin daughters, Jane Heimlich of Cincinnati and Phyllis McDowell of New Haven, eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      