
        Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side. She was 41 and lived in Manhattan and Bali.
        Ms. Sheely had taken her daughter, Jessye, to the park and apparently had a heart attack, said Grisha Coleman, a friend.
        The winner of a 1992 Bessie Award, which is bestowed for creative work in dance and performance art, Ms. Sheely had a long, thin body and a slightly prim demeanor that belied her intensity and daring as a performer. One of her most memorable roles was as the shy young visionary Hannah, a character inspired by the primitive painter Minnie Evans, in Jawole Willa Jo Zollar's 1990 ''Praise House.''
        ''Viola Sheely's range here is impressive, but nothing prepares the audience for her last stunning soliloquy -- a bellowed, ecstatic release,'' Anna Kisselgoff, senior dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1991. But Ms. Sheely was just as convincing portraying the lusty, anarchic women who populate many of Ms. Zollar's pieces.
        Born in Belle Glade, Fla., Ms. Sheely trained at Florida State University. In New York City, she studied with the dancer and choreographer Dianne McIntyre in the early 1980's. Ms. Sheely performed with Urban Bush Women from 1984 to 1993. She also performed in ''Vanquished by Voodoo,'' an En Garde Arts theater production, in 1992.
        A founder of Hot Mouth, an a cappella singing group, she belted out songs in a show-stopping performance in 1994.
        In addition to her daughter, survivors include her husband, Oded Carmi, and two sisters, Betty and Carey Sheely of Belle Glade.
        Correction:  August 17, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 8 about Viola Sheely, a dancer and singer, misstated the relationship of a survivor and omitted a reference to four others. The survivor, Jessye, is her son, not her daughter. She also leaves her brothers Michael, Jerry, Joe and Larry, all of Belle Glade, Fla.
      