
        Claudette Sorel, a pianist who was at her best in music that demanded delicacy and lyricism but who also gave highly regarded performances of difficult contemporary works and big Romantic showpieces, died on Friday at her home in Hampton Bays, N.Y. She was 66.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for the J. Ronald Scott Funeral Home in Hampton Bays.
        Ms. Sorel was born in Paris in 1932, and was already a promising pianist when her family fled France just before the German invasion in 1940. When her family settled in New York, Ms. Sorel became a student of the Hungarian concert pianist Sari Biro. In 1942 she received a scholarship to the Juilliard School, where she studied with Olga Samaroff.
        After a year at Juilliard, Ms. Sorel made her recital debut at Town Hall at age 11. Noel Straus, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote of her performance of a Mendelssohn Etude that ''a child capable of so polished and eloquent an example of pianism has a future worth watching.''
        With Samaroff's encouragement she performed regularly in recitals and as an orchestral soloist. Once Samaroff arranged for her to play the Prokofiev Piano Concerto No. 3, a work she had never studied, on a week's notice. She performed several times in the New York Philharmonic's youth concerts before making her formal debut with the orchestra, at age 17, with the MacDowell Piano Concerto No. 2.
        As her career progressed, she continued her studies. After Samaroff's death in 1948 she enrolled at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, where she studied with Rudolf Serkin and Mieczyslaw Horszowski. She received an artist's diploma from Curtis in 1953 and a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Columbia University the same year.
        During the 1940's and 50's Ms. Sorel toured as a soloist, often including on her programs works written for her by American composers, among them Lukas Foss, Howard Hanson, Paul Creston and Peter Mennin. Her last performance in New York was a 1973 recital at Alice Tully Hall devoted entirely to music by Rachmaninoff, in honor of the centenary of his birth. Included on the program were two previously unknown Nocturnes that Rachmaninoff composed when he was 14. Ms. Sorel had discovered them while researching the composer at the Moscow Conservatory. She edited the published versions of the works.
        A fall on an icy sidewalk in 1974 ended her performing career. But Ms. Sorel, who had no immediate survivors, was established as a teacher by then. She taught at the  University of Kansas, Ohio State University and the State University of New York at Fredonia.
        Besides the Rachmaninoff works, Ms. Sorel edited some of Arensky's piano works for publication. She also published several books for pianists, including ''A Compendium of Piano Technique,'' ''17 Little Piano Studies'' and ''Mind Your Musical Manners.'' Recently she edited ''From Madam: Selected Writings of Olga Samaroff Stokowski From Her Years at the Juilliard School.''
      