
        Lucille Kallen, the lone woman in the raucous, celebrated and astonishingly untidy group of television writers behind Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows,'' died on Monday at her home in Ardsley, N.Y. She was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Lise Engel.
        ''Your Show of Shows,'' which starred Mr. Caesar and Imogene Coca, was broadcast live for 90 minutes on Saturday nights from 1950 to 1954 and is today revered as a classic of television's golden age. For writers, a job on the program was a coveted plum; many of Ms. Kallen's colleagues, including Mel Brooks, Carl Reiner and Neil Simon, would become show business luminaries in their own right.
        The quick-witted, fast-talking gang of writers was so famous that it was memorialized repeatedly in popular culture, including the 1982 film ''My Favorite Year'' (remade as a Broadway musical in 1992) and Mr. Simon's play ''Laughter on the 23d Floor'' (1993). But Ms. Kallen, one of a tiny handful of women employed as television comedy writers in the 1950's, was curiously absent from these works: they featured instead a generic female character who was an amalgam of Ms. Kallen and Selma Diamond, a writer for ''Caesar's Hour,'' which succeeded ''Your Show of Shows.''
        The two women were also conflated in the character of Sally Rogers, played by Rose Marie on ''The Dick Van Dyke Show.'' That program, created by Mr. Reiner, starred Mr. Van Dyke as a television comedy writer.
        ''Lucille got lost a little bit,'' said Mel Tolkin, the head writer on ''Your Show of Shows.''  ''She was generally the least given credit because the other people are so loud and so famous.''
        But if her co-workers barreled into posterity as hit playwrights, movie directors and 2,000-year-old men, Ms. Kallen was, in Mr. Reiner's words, ''a real writer'' -- the profession's most dignified accolade -- who possessed a finely honed ear for dialogue.
        ''She was quite a talented girl, and she was cute as a button, too,'' Mr. Reiner, who also performed as Mr. Caesar's second banana on ''Your Show of Shows,'' said recently. ''And being the woman, she did give it the woman's touch.''
        In addition, Ms. Kallen was the author of six novels, including the C. B. Greenfield mystery series.
        Last year, Ms. Kallen unearthed in her attic a faded piece of paper that neatly encapsulated her craft. The paper contained notes for a sketch in which a wife (Ms. Coca) bemoaned the spark gone from her marriage to Mr. Caesar:
        Wife: Where is the sense of adventure? Where is the fun? Where is the romance?
        Husband: How do I know where you put things? I can't even find my shirt!
        ''This was so typical of their exchanges that I could practically write it in my sleep,'' Ms. Kallen observed in an oral history videotaped last April for the Archive of American Television in Hollywood.
        Lucille Kallen was born on May 28, 1922, in Los Angeles. At 3, she moved with her mother to Toronto after her parents separated; she was raised there by her grandparents after her mother's death seven years later. As a girl, she trained to become a concert pianist; as a teen-ager, she founded a theater troupe, for which she wrote songs and sketches.
        At 16, Ms. Kallen moved to New York to study at the Juilliard School, but in the years that followed she had two epiphanies that pre-empted her classical-music career: one, her fingers were too short; two, she hated to practice.
        She turned instead to writing, putting together a nightclub revue that included the young Martin Balsam. The act was spotted by the producer Max Liebman, who invited Ms. Kallen to hone her craft at Camp Tamiment, a Poconos resort renowned for its Saturday night shows. At Tamiment, she was teamed with Mr. Tolkin, who would become her longtime writing partner. She also met her future husband, Herbert Engel, who worked there as a soda jerk; they were married in 1952. Mr. Engel, a businessman, survives her, as do her daughter, of Manhattan; her son, Paul, of Oceanside, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        On the strength of their Tamiment sketches, Ms. Kallen and Mr. Tolkin were hired to write for a new television show produced by Mr. Liebman, ''The Admiral Broadway Review,'' which paired Mr. Caesar and Ms. Coca for the first time. Undeterred by the fact that she had never even seen a television program, Ms. Kallen signed on, dashing off sketches with Mr. Tolkin in a corner of the male dancers' dressing room. The program, broadcast simultaneously on NBC and the Dumont network from January to June of 1949, was the direct progenitor of ''Your Show of Shows,'' which made its debut on NBC the following year.
        As Ms. Kallen recalled, she and her colleagues didn't simply write ''Your Show of Shows,'' they lived it, working seven days a week, 39 weeks a year at the program's offices in midtown Manhattan, producing a series of now-classic sketches, including movie parodies (''From Here to Obscurity''), opera sendups (''Galipacci'') and the weekly travails of the married couple Charles and Doris Hickenlooper for the live broadcast on Saturday night.
        In their cramped domain, known as the Writers' Room, the air was blue with cigar smoke and invective and the decor was early fraternity house: dogeared sofa, discarded paper cups crunching underfoot, half-eaten sandwiches abandoned beneath piles of typescript, acoustical-tile ceiling stuck with pencils hurled there in moments of frustration, and widening pools of spilled coffee. ''I learned,'' Ms. Kallen wrote afterward, ''to wear dark skirts.''
        As the men paced and the room erupted with jokes and argument, Ms. Kallen was a small, ordered island in a roiling sea, sitting calmly, her legs tucked under her, taking down the good stuff in pencil on a yellow legal pad as it hurtled by, all the while contributing her share. ''She was the only one who could write and talk at the same time,'' Mr. Caesar recalled recently. ''The rest of us were all crazy. It was all being made up at that moment: 'Put it in!'  'Take it out!'  'You've got to put it back!' So it was a very, very frustrating job.''
        Most of the writers were extremely large. All of them were extremely loud. Ms. Kallen was 5 foot 1 and, when off duty, spoke with measured thoughtfulness.
        ''I was torn between preserving my femininity and preserving my career,'' she later said. ''It was difficult to be forceful enough to get through.''
        At one point, she resorted to standing on the sofa and waving a red scarf to command attention. It worked -- briefly.
        When ''Your Show of Shows'' went off the air, Ms. Kallen turned down a job with its successor, ''Caesar's Hour'' (1954-57), to write for ''The Imogene Coca Show,'' which lasted only a single season. With Mr. Tolkin, she wrote a short-lived Broadway play, ''Maybe Tuesday'' (1958). In addition to writing five mysteries, she was the author of the novel ''Outside There, Somewhere,'' (1964), a comic, early feminist exploration of the competing demands of career and motherhood.
        Reflecting on her Writers' Room days, Ms. Kallen was forthright about the condescension as well as the camaraderie she encountered there. ''At the time I felt it was one big happy family, but later I said, What an idiot!'' she remarked. ''There was a male phalanx, and then there was me. But when we were working, there was no difference.''
      