
        Celestine Sibley, an Atlanta newspaper columnist who for 55 years wrote about the commonplaces of Southern life in a prose as soothing as the hum of cicadas in summer, died on Sunday at her vacation home on Dog Island, Fla.
        Ms. Sibley was 85, and her last column was published in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution on July 25.
        In it, she writes of her own invalid's insomnia, when her thoughts turn to Key lime pie (''you stumble a bit fishing it out of the refrigerator, and Key lime has a tendency to slither'') and quilts (''when they are old and faded and weightless, you pull them up and remember the women who made them and the families they 'kivvered' with them'').
        There were few regional columnists who could match Ms. Sibley for longevity, although the columnist Herb Caen of The San Francisco Chronicle did stretch his career over 58 years before his death in 1997.
        But unlike other proud regional voices -- Mike Royko in Chicago or Atlanta's own Ralph McGill -- Ms. Sibley was not forceful as she passed on her musings about minutiae: choosing a Christmas tree, baking a pie, daydreaming about a Civil War battle and forgetting to pay a toll in the process. Echoes of the novelist Margaret Mitchell's ability to describe and evoke nostalgia run throughout Ms. Sibley's work.
        ''It was a country-girl-come-to-the-city kind of column,'' said Bill Kovach, a former editor of The Journal-Constitution, who is curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University. ''She was the last voice of the white-glove, tea-and-apple-blossom set that had not a sharp edge on it.''
        Ms. Sibley was born near Pensacola, Fla., and joined The Atlanta Constitution as a reporter in 1941, covering murder trials and Georgia Statehouse politics. She was assigned her first column in 1944 when she had to take time away from the office to be with her children.
        ''For generations and generations of Georgians, she embodied the South, the simple, folksy, homespun South,'' said Cynthia Tucker, the editorial page editor of The Constitution. But, Ms. Tucker cautioned, Ms. Sibley ''was not as one-dimensional'' as her columns about gardens and scotch pines, dogwoods and azaleas  might indicate. ''This was an intelligent woman with a lot of backbone,'' she said.
        An article in The Journal-Constitution last week described Ms. Sibley's rebuff to Gov. Jimmy Carter after he had sent a letter to every state legislator disputing an article she had written about the legislative maneuvering involving one of the Governor's bills. When Mr. Carter invited her to his office to discuss the issue, she refused, saying, ''You mean you want to insult me publicly and apologize in private.''
        And years after the racial turmoil of the 1960's that transformed the South, Ms. Sibley wrote a 1990 column about the movie ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' marked by a sharpness and almost rueful tone. Writing of a scene in the movie when painfully complacent Atlantans hear themselves chastised for inaction in the civil rights battles, Ms. Sibley said, ''It was an Atlanta attitude at the time, and many Atlantans took it like Miss Daisy, listening and looking at the empty chair beside her where her black servant and best friend, Hoke, should have been sitting if her courage had matched her good will.''
        Ms. Sibley also wrote 25 books, most of them mystery novels, including some that featured Kate Kincaid, a reporter at The Atlanta Searchlight.
        Her first husband, Jim Little, died  at age 45. Her second husband, James Strong, died in 1988. She is survived by two daughters, Susan Sibley Little Bazemore of Des Moines and Mary Everitt Little-Vance of Roswell, Ga.; a son, James W. Little 5th of Alford, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      