
        Louise Alone Thompson Patterson, an advocate of civil rights and leftist causes, a participant in the Harlem Renaissance and a longtime associate of one of its leading figures, the poet Langston Hughes, died on Friday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 97.
        The 1920's and 30's saw an artistic and literary flowering in Harlem and an outpouring of social criticism examining the position of blacks in American society. Soon after her arrival in 1928, Mrs. Patterson, then Louise Thompson, gravitated toward that intellectual ferment, which became known as the Harlem Renaissance.
        Born in Chicago on Sept. 9, 1901, she had experienced racism while living in a succession of predominantly white towns in the Pacific Northwest, before entering the University of California at Berkeley, where she was inspired by a lecture on racism given by W. E. B. DuBois.
        After graduating from Berkeley in 1923 with a degree in economics, she taught at Hampton Institute in Virginia, which had a black student body but a predominantly white and paternalistic administration. She supported a student strike there, then went to New York to study at the New School for Social Research under a scholarship from the Urban League.
        Louise Thompson entered Harlem Renaissance circles through a friendship with the painter Aaron Douglas and his wife, Alta, and she married the writer Wallace Thurman. They separated six months later. In the late 1920's, she became a secretary to Hughes, and a long professional association and friendship began.
        In 1932, after helping found a Harlem branch of the Friends of the Soviet Union, she became a leading organizer of a trip to the Soviet Union by 22 black intellectuals, journalists and writers who were to make a Soviet-sponsored movie called ''Black and White,'' about white supremacy in America.
        She enlisted Hughes's participation in the trip, but the film project was canceled by Soviet authorities after the group's arrival, ostensibly because of inefficiency on the part of the Soviet film company. The real reason may have been Soviet fears that the film would create enmity in the United States and jeopardize diplomatic recognition.
        Louise Thompson enjoyed her experience of Soviet society and told how ''the Russians would push us to the front of the queue line for a bus or ticket, or offer us seats in a crowded streetcar.''
        ''For all of us who experienced discrimination based on color in our own land, it was strange to find our color a badge of honor, our key to the city, so to speak,'' she said.
        The group eventually split into two factions. Those who saw Louise Thompson as too trusting of the Russians nicknamed her Madame Moscow.
        After returning to the United States, she organized a march to Washington to speak out on the ''Scottsboro Boys'' -- nine black youths wrongly convicted of raping two white women in Scottsboro, Ala. She later traveled to Spain on behalf of the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War.
        She was an organizer of Vanguard, a left-wing salon organized at her Harlem apartment in the 1930's for cultural presentations and discussions of Marxist theory. In 1938, she helped Hughes start the Harlem Suitcase Theater, where he presented his play with music ''Don't You Want to Be Free?'' Hughes dedicated his 1942 collection of poems, ''Shakespeare in Harlem,'' to her.
        In 1940, having moved to Chicago, Louise Thompson married William Patterson, a figure in the American Communist Party. He died in 1980. She is survived by a daughter, MaryLouise Patterson of Manhattan, two granddaughters and a great-grandson.
      