
        Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany. She was 67.
        The cause was leukemia, aides to Mr. Gorbachev said. She had been under treatment in University Hospital in Munster since late July.
        Mr. Gorbachev's rise to the leadership of the Communist Party in 1985 was the first sign of a seismic shift in the Soviet Union's calcified politics and economy. But it was Raisa Gorbachev who, both at home and abroad, soon came to embody the changes to come. She emerged as a First Lady who had her own mind, her own style and according to reports of a secret videotape that circulated after one of her foreign trips, her own American Express card.
        None of this endeared her to the Soviet public, who began to grumble early in her husband's tenure that she was too pushy, too flashy and too influential. Her appearances on foreign trips and her cultural projects at home stirred debate in many Russian kitchens over whether the proper place for Kremlin wives was -- as it had always been -- at home, or at least in the background.
        But since the beginning of this month, when Russians first learned that their former First Lady had been hospitalized in Germany with an advanced and rare case of leukemia, sentiments toward her in Russia began to shift. Favorable articles began to appear in the press, and thousands of letters and telegrams of sympathy arrived at the hospital in Munster, where her husband kept a faithful vigil that touched many Russian hearts. ''It must be in the Russian character -- to run somebody into the mud, and them laud them to high heavens after a tragedy strikes,'' said Vladimir Polyakov, a Gorbachev spokesman.
        President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev's bitter rival in the early 1990's, sent a message of condolence today, and in a statement he said that a ''wonderful person, a beautiful woman, a loving wife and mother is no longer with us.''
        In his autobiography, published in 1996, Mr. Gorbachev acknowledged that the resentment over his wife's high profile surfaced in letters written to the Communist Party's Central Committee. ''Who does she think she is, a member of the Politburo?'' he quoted one as saying. ''The simplest answer would have been: 'No, she is my wife.' ''
        She first became known in the West in 1984 when she accompanied her husband, then a ranking member of the Soviet Politburo, to Britain, where they were received by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Diplomats and reporters, scanning the couple for clues about the next generation of Soviet leaders, quickly focused up on her wardrobe -- in particular her gold lame sandals with chain straps, a far cry from the dowdy shoes worn by other Kremlin wives. On a later trip to France, the French press labeled her clothes ''elegant, but not chic.''
        On her foreign travels, she also became known for a haughty conversational style that bordered on the pedantic. During the 1986 summit meeting in Reykjavik, Iceland, she needled her tour guides with persistent questioning, adding didactic commentary of her own. Visiting the United States for the first time in 1987, she irked Nancy Reagan with lectures on subjects ranging from architecture to socialism, reportedly prompting the American President's wife to quip, ''Who does that dame think she is?''
        As she became more comfortable in her role as the Soviet First Lady, she loosened up and her wardrobe became more subdued. On a visit to Washington in 1990, she established more friendly relations with Barbara Bush, from whom she got a recipe for blueberry pie.
        Born in the Siberian city of Rubtsovsk, Raisa Titarenko grew up as the daughter of a railway engineer. She graduated from school with a gold medal -- top honors in the Soviet system -- and went on to the prestigious University of Moscow. She was studying philosophy there when she met Mr. Gorbachev, then a law student. According to his book, he was smitten, but she was aloof.
        ''Our first meeting had not impressed Raisa at all,'' he wrote. ''She seemed calm and indifferent -- judging by the look in her eyes.'' Not much later, at an impromptu party staged by Mr. Gorbachev's roommates for Raisa and her friends, ''I wanted to impress her,'' he wrote, but ''I think I made a terrible fool of myself. She was reserved and was the first to suggest breaking up the gathering.''
        After an intense courtship, the two penniless students were married in 1953, the year of Stalin's death. They had one daughter, Irina, born in 1956, who survives her along with Mr. Gorbachev and two granddaughters.
        After the couple completed their college work in 1955, the family returned to Mr. Gorbachev's home region of Stavropol in southern Russia. There Mrs. Gorbachev completed a doctoral dissertation, entitled ''The Emergence of New Characteristics in the Daily Life of Collective Farm Peasantry,'' based on an unusual amount of field research, which was accepted by the Lenin Pedagogical Institute in Moscow.
        When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
        As the wife of the Soviet leader, she was enlisted as a board member of the Soviet Cultural Foundation, headed by Dmitri S. Likhachev, one of Russia's most distinguished academicians, which was created to promote the arts and to restore the country's cultural heritage.
        In this role, she became one of her husband's conduits to the Russian intelligentsia, which was then rallying to his call for more ''glasnost,'' or openness. As Soviet censorship eased, the Soviet people rushed to rediscover books and parts of their own history that had been buried under a rigid Communist ideology.
        Mrs. Gorbachev's most traumatic moments came during the August 1991 coup, when the Gorbachevs were held hostage at a seaside villa in the Crimea while a group of Communist hard-liners tried to seize control in Moscow. The coup failed, and Mr. Gorbachev and his family returned to Moscow, visibly shaken. ''Raisa Maksimovna took it very hard,'' said Mr. Gorbachev at a news conference after their return to Moscow.
        In 1991, Raisa Gorbachev published a book of reminiscences, entitled in English, ''I Hope,'' which she decided to write after a visit with Mrs. Bush in 1990 to Wellesley College where, she said, ''the girls showered me with questions.'' Reviewers found the book self-serving in parts but also informative about the couple's intellectual journey as, together, they came to realize the flaws in the Soviet system.
        In her last years, Mrs. Gorbachev started a club that drew together a dozen well-known and high-powered Russian women for conferences, charitable projects and informal debates. She described the group as an attempt to promote a civil society in Russia. Against her wishes, the club became known as the Raisa Maksimovna Club.
        Lyudmila Telen, a deputy editor at the newspaper Moscow News and a member of the club, said her impressions of Mrs. Gorbachev changed as she got to know her better. ''She set herself very high goals -- she felt she had to improve herself,'' said Ms. Telen. ''Going from wife of a provincial first secretary to First Lady was a big jump.
        ''She wanted to represent the country in a new way. She understood that what Mikhail Sergeyevich was doing was a revolution, but she had many complexes, too -- a natural reserve and a Soviet way of behavior that she tried to overcome.''
        Ms. Telen said Mrs. Gorbachev was well aware of the resentment against her felt by many Russians. But she herself was never bitter. ''She realized that people had been used to different women, different traditions, different leaders,'' said Ms. Telen. ''She understood it. It hurt her of course, but I never heard her be mean or bitter about it.''
        As a couple, the Gorbachevs shared interests in philosophy and literature, theater and politics. Mr. Gorbachev on several occasions acknowledged that he often turned to his wife for advice. In his book, he recalled how the two would have their most serious discussions in the garden of their Government-provided apartment, beyond the earshot of K.G.B. eavesdropping devices.
        Their close relationship was the envy of their friends. At a dinner in Paris in the fall of 1985, her host said she confided: ''I am very lucky with Mikhail. We are really friends, or if you prefer, we have great complicity.''
        After the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991, when Mr. Yeltsin took over Mr. Gorbachev's office in the Kremlin, he became a political pariah in Russia, widely blamed for ushering in reforms that led to a decade of political and economic instability.
        After a disastrous run for the presidency in 1996, he maintained a low profile at home, while Mrs. Gorbachev, who accompanied him on the international lecture circuit, became practically invisible until her recent illness.
        With a diagnosis of acute lukemia, Mrs. Gorbachev was rushed to the hospital in Munster on July 25. News of her hospitalization became public only in early August.
        According to Russian news reports, Mr. Gorbachev remained at her side day and night. ''Dear God,'' the former Soviet President, visibly exhausted, told a Russian television reporter on Aug. 9, ''for her to undergo such a drama these two days before my very eyes.''
      