
        Tahia Carioca, the Egyptian belly dancer often called the Marilyn Monroe of the Arab world, died of a heart attack in a Cairo hospital on Monday.  She was 79.
        Miss Carioca's parents were mortified when as a teen-ager she took her beauty and talent to a Cairo nightclub to dance for strangers, but it was the beginning of a journey that would make her one of the world's most renowned belly dancers.
        Though the hold of fundamentalist Islam on Egyptian society has virtually wiped out public manifestations of her art, she was in the end granted the official approval her parents withheld, as the Egyptian Culture Minister, Farouk Hosni, led her funeral procession.
        The stuff of legend, she married 14 different husbands and once slapped King Farouk when he threw an ice cube down her dress. She had roles in more than 300 movies and television shows.
        But beyond mere fame, she virtually defined the intricate, pulsating art called raqs sharqi in Arabic nations but known in the West as the belly dance since a promoter at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair dreamed up the name.
        Belly dancers cover less territory than Western dancers, concentrating instead on often minute movements, sometimes emphasizing such tiny muscular articulations as a quivering lower lip.
        ''You really liked watching her; she would draw you in,'' said Morocco, a New York dancer who was inspired by Miss Carioca and herself became a leading international performer. She recalled the intensity of Miss Carioca's musicality and her grace.
        When another great Egyptian belly dancer, Samia Gamal, died in 1994, her funeral was officially ignored,  Morocco said. Her style of dancing was sometimes called coltish or kittenish, in contrast to the strength and dignity of Miss Carioca's approach.  Miss Carioca used her many films to raise the status of Middle Eastern  dance.
        ''She got it recognized as part of the Egyptian fine arts landscape through her portrayals of it in movies,'' said Julie Elliot, a belly dancer who lives in the San Francisco Bay area. ''She was a pioneer of modern oriental dance as it is done today.''
        Miss Carioca, originally named Abla Mohammed Karim, was born in 1920. She studied dance at Ivanova Belly Dancing School in Cairo before moving to Mohammed Ali Street, Cairo's 1930's and 40's version of Broadway. She took her stage names from the Brazilian sambas she liked to perform.
        Miss Carioca became one of the biggest stars at a Cairo nightclub owned by Badia Massabni, a Lebanese woman. The club was an elegant re-creation of a British music hall and was frequented by both British colonial administrators and the local aristocracy. Women as well as men were part of the audience. Dancers wore elegant, bejeweled gowns, sometimes with bare midriffs and sometimes not.
        But the nice surroundings did not make belly dancing, something that up until that time had been performed mainly at private weddings and celebrations, publicly respectable.
        ''Many men would reject the trade and would never marry a female performer,'' Karin van Nieuwkerk wrote in a 1995 book about Egyptian dancers called ''A Trade Like Any Other'' and published by the University of Texas Press.
        The dancer Morocco said, ''Women do not show themselves publicly outside the family and, maybe, somebody they're going to marry.''
        Of course, Miss Carioca married many interesting men, among them an American army officer whom she met during World War II, an actor and a prominent playwright.
        That none of the matches lasted long may have owed something to her sometimes assertive personality, Morocco said. ''She was sort of a big mouth,'' she said, ''but very sweet.''
        Miss Carioca is survived by an adopted daughter, Atiyat Allah.
        Her first film was ''Doctor Farahat'' in 1935, directed by Togo Mizrahi. One of her most popular movies was ''Youth of a Woman,'' in which she played a landlady who seduces a naive, young peasant student. It was shown at the 1956 Cannes International Film Festival.
        ''She was an important part of Egypt's movie history,'' said the film director Gulal Sharqawi.
        She gave up dancing in 1963 but as late as the mid-1980's ran her own theater in Cairo, helping to write and choose plays, as well as directing and producing.
        She took to wearing the Islamic head scarf before retiring completely from public view 13 years ago.
      