
        Mignon Garland, a dancer and teacher who played a major role in keeping Isadora Duncan's legacy alive in the United States, died on Sept. 15 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 91.
        After Duncan's death in 1927, her repertory and ideas as a pioneer of modern dance were passed directly to Ms. Garland and other disciples by the pupils Duncan had trained in Germany and called her adopted daughters. Two of them, Anna Duncan and Irma Duncan, were Ms. Garland's teachers in New York.
        She, in turn, taught many of the fourth- and fifth-generation Duncan dancers performing today, including her granddaughter, Amy Baird Garlin, and Lori Belilove, well known for her concerts in New York.
        As founder and director of the Isadora Duncan Heritage Society, Miss Garland was often consulted by scholars and performers.
        Miss Garland, born in Brooklyn, studied ballet and other forms of dance as a child and was 13 when she performed at Town Hall. After seeing a performance by Anna Duncan in 1927, she decided to devote her life to Duncan dancing.
        In 1930, she toured internationally with the Minneapolis Symphony as a member of Irma Duncan's company. After a United States tour, the pupils of the Russian school founded by Duncan invited Ms. Garland to study and dance with them in Moscow in 1931.
        After her return in 1933, Miss Garland helped found the New Duncan Dancers and was dance editor of New Theater magazine. In 1942 she formed the Contemporary Duncan Dancers with two other prominent Duncan disciples, Hortense Kooluris and Julia Levien. The group performed at Carnegie Hall in 1944 with the National Symphony Orchestra conducted by Leon Barzin. In 1952 the original members of Irma Duncan Dancers marked the 25th anniversary of Duncan's death with a concert at Carnegie Recital Hall.
        Interest in Isadora Duncan's legend remained alive, but performances of her works became infrequent after the 1950's until Miss Garland helped promote the current Duncan revival that began with the 1977 centenary of the dance pioneer's birth.
        After moving to Berkeley, Calif., in 1957, Miss Garland lived for many years in San Francisco at 501 Taylor Street, the site of Duncan's birth, which Miss Garland marked with a bronze plaque in 1973 at a ceremony attended by Irma Duncan.
        In 1977, Mayor George Moscone proclaimed May 26 as Isadora Duncan Centenary Day, and Miss Garland's company, the San Francisco Duncan Dancers, performed in Colonial Concert Hall. In 1988 Miss Garland succeeded in having a street renamed Isadora Duncan Lane.
        Miss Garland was also trained as an elementary school teacher at the Maxwell Training School in Brooklyn and like her parents, she was active in social and political causes. Her mother, Rose Heiman Halpern, helped Margaret Sanger open a birth control clinic in Brooklyn in 1916; her father, William Halpern, was defeated as a candidate for the New York State Assembly. Ms. Garland was denied a permanent teaching license in New York City. According to her son, Victor Garlin, the reason was ''her political organizing for improved schools in Harlem.''
        After moving to California, Miss Garland taught Duncan's dancing under the auspices of the San Francisco Art Commission Neighborhood Arts Program and in private schools. She opened her own studio in 1973 and gave her last major recital with her students in 1989.
        In addition to her son, of Berkeley, she is survived by a sister, Paula H. Gould of New York, and two granddaughters.
      