
        Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Saturday at her home in Miami Beach. She was 92 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained glass windows for a synagogue in Jerusalem, endowed Hadassah educational seminars in the United States and Israel and wrote the book 'A Tapestry of Hadassah Memories.'' She and her second husband, Harry Rosenthal, also endowed clinics and parks in Israel through Hadassah.
        During her presidency, from 1956 through 1960, a second hospital was built for the Hadassah medical center in Jerusalem, in the Ein Kerem neighborhood. It was dedicated in 1960.
        Dr. Freund-Rosenthal, whose doctorate was in history from New York University, was known as Miriam K. Freund when she was Hadassah's president.
        With about 300,000 members, Hadassah says it is the United States's largest women's organization, largest Jewish organization and largest Zionist organization.
        Before and after Dr. Freund-Rosenthal was Hadassah's president, she held a variety of other posts overseeing the organization's education and youth programs. She was also prominent in other Zionist and Jewish communal organizations.
        In a volume of memoirs, ''In My Lifetime'' (1989), she tells of her visit with the violinist Isaac Stern to Chagall in France. The artist agreed to create the design for the stained-glass windows that were to be installed in the synagogue in the Ein Kerem hospital complex, saying, ''I have always looked forward to a call from the Jewish people.'' Known as the Jerusalem windows, they have attracted immense numbers of visitors over the years.
        Miriam Kottler Freund-Rosenthal was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Harry Kottler and the former Rebecca Zindler, and lived in Perth Amboy, N.J., and Harlem as a child. She received a bachelor's degree in 1925 from Hunter College and a master's degree and doctorate from N.Y.U. In 1935 she first visited what was then Palestine.
        She taught in the New York City public school system for a decade and a half until the early 1940's, and was prominent in fund-raising for the founding of Brandeis University, which opened in 1948.
        Her other writings include the books ''Jewish Merchants in Colonial America'' (1939) and ''Jewels for a Crown'' (1963).
        In 1927, she married Milton B. Freund, a financier active in Jewish communal and religious affairs, who died in 1968. She married Harry Rosenthal, a businessman in St. Paul in 1974. He died in 1989.
        Her survivors include two sons, Dr. Matthew Freund of Miami Beach; and Harry I. Freund of Harrison, N.Y. and Manhattan; 5 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren and 2 stepdaughters, Midge Decter of Manhattan, the political writer, and Connie Fields of St. Paul.
      