
        Marion Zimmer Bradley, a science fiction writer and the creator of the Darkover series of fantasies, died on Saturday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 69 and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Elisabeth Waters, her cousin and secretary.
        Ms. Bradley rose to fame in 1958 with the publication of ''The Planet Savers,'' the first of her top-selling Darkover novels. The series eventually comprised 21 books, written almost exclusively by Ms. Bradley, which told the story of a planet discovered at the end of the 21st century  and colonized by Earth.
        She later worked primarily in the fantasy genre, often adding a feminist spin to well-known myths. In 1983, she published her most famous work, ''The Mists of Avalon,'' a retelling of the legend of King Arthur  from the vantage point of its principal women, Viviane, Gwynyfar, Morgaine and Igraine. Hailed by Maureen Quilligan in The New York Times as ''a massive narrative that is rich in events placed in landscapes no less real for often being magical,'' the novel remained on The Times best-seller list for four months. In her 1987 work ''The Firebrand,'' she retold the story of the Trojan War from the perspective of the prophet  Cassandra, whom she renamed Kassandra.
        Born in Albany, N.Y., Ms. Bradley began to write as a teen-ager and by the age of 17 had created a magazine for science-fiction fans. Two years later she began writing for pulp magazines. In 1964 she graduated from  Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, Tex., and then did graduate work at the University of California at Berkeley from 1965 to 1967.
        Though she continued to write until her death, Ms. Bradley's poor health in the early 1990's limited her activities. She devoted much of her time to editing magazines, including her own, Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine, which she started in 1988. She also edited an annual anthology called ''Sword and Sorceress'' from Daw Books in New York.
        Ms. Bradley's marriage to Robert Alden Bradley ended in divorce in 1964. She is survived by three children, David Bradley of Oakland, Calif.; Patrick Breen of Denver, and Moira Stern of Sparks, Nev.; a brother, Leslie Zimmer of East Greenbush, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      