
        Lenon Hoyte, better known as Aunt Len, who shared her dream of a doll museum with Harlem children and  collectors from around the world for two decades, died Aug. 1 at a hospital in New York. She was 94.
        A public school art teacher, she  founded Aunt Len's Doll and Toy Museum, one of the most extensive private collections of dolls and related toys in the United States, and long one of New York City's choice specialty museums. She closed the museum in the early 1990's when she was no longer able to care for it.
        To Ms. Hoyte, the dolls were her ''babies,'' to be loved and shown off, whether they were the rarest antiques or battered castoffs.
        In 1938, Ms. Hoyte and her husband bought the three-story brownstone at 6 Hamilton Terrace between Convent and St. Nicholas Avenues.
        At one time the house was home to 6,000 dolls.
        There were a dozen versions of  Shirley Temple; there was Barbie, and Betsy Wetsy, presidents and their wives, and refined French dolls with bodies and faces made of  bisque, the unglazed ceramic ware used to make fine dolls in the 19th century and before.
        And always, her collection included black dolls, which are now highly sought by collectors, because so few were made before the 20th century.
        One rarity, described in the sale catalogue as ''a black Bru pressed-bisque-head bebe doll,'' was valued at $18,000.
        There were a pair of papier-mache dolls, named Lillian and Leo, made by Leo Moss, a black handyman who lived in Atlanta in the 19th century. Both Lillian and Leo have tears running down their cheeks.
        The story has it that after the dollmaker parted from his wife and children he became so sad that he made only crying dolls.
        The collection also included accessories like doll houses, doll clothing and costumes, tin toys and stuffed animals.
        Visitors had to squeeze their way sideways or hunch down as they progressed through the narrow passageways of the public spaces on the ground floor and in the basement of the building.
        The museum had a modest entrance fee, never exceeding $2 for adults and 50 cents for children.
        Visitors would encounter all manner of mannequins, ranging from thumb-size to two or three feet tall.  Not all of the collectibles were old. One of Ms. Hoyte's favorites -- a baby doll with wide eyes and long eyelashes -- was carved in mahogany in 1977 by a California artist, Patty Hale.
        In 1990, soon after Mayor Edward I. Koch presented Ms. Hoyte with the Mayoral Award of Honor for Art and Culture, her genteel house and museum was broken into by thieves.
        At least nine dolls, including a two-foot-tall English king, considered priceless by knowledgeable collectors, were stolen.
        Ms. Hoyte was disconsolate.
        ''People any more don't let you live,'' she said then. ''You struggle to keep something up for joy and beauty, and you find yourself having to watch for thieves. It's not right.''
        But soon after, four of the stolen dolls -- representing George and Martha Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Benjamin Franklin -- turned up, disjointed but repairable, in Ms. Hoyte's front room. ''I don't ask questions about how,'' she said. ''I'm just happy to have them back.''
        In 1994, 700 of the finest antique dolls were auctioned at Sotheby's. Thousands more had been sold previously to dealers around the country.
        Lenon Holder Hoyte was born in New York City on July 4, 1905, the first of five children of Moses and Rose Holder. She attended public school in New York City and studied art at the College of the City of New York, Columbia University and with private teachers.
        She taught art at Junior High School 149 in the Bronx and retired after 41 years. ''When they started killing teachers, I got out,'' she said.
        Her passion for collecting dolls dated to 1962, when she was asked to organize a doll show to raise money for Harlem Hospital. After that, she began acquiring dolls from flea markets, garage sales and antiques shops that she visited throughout the United States, Europe and the Caribbean. Her collection was officially opened as a museum in 1974.
        Ms. Hoyte continued to produce  doll shows, and donated the proceeds to St. Philip's Episcopal Church, where she had been a lifelong member.
        She spent many of her retirement years traveling to doll shows and picking up dolls and doll accouterments for her collection.
        Ms. Hoyte's husband, Lewis Hoyte, died about 30 years ago. She is survived by her brother, Dr. Oliver Holder, of Sag Harbor, N.Y., two nieces and three nephews.
      