
        Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex. She was 63.
        The cause was heart failure, said her daughter Elizabeth Vereen.
        Ms. Webster, born Kathryn Jewel Thorne, was reared by musicians: her father was a ragtime pianist who turned to gospel music when he became a minister in the Sanctified Church of God in Christ, in Houston, and her mother, who played spirituals and classical music, was responsible for her keyboard training.
        She began her professional musical life early, although it was not the sort her parents would have encouraged: at 13 she was traveling the ''crawfish circuit'' from Dallas to New Orleans with a jazz band. At 15 she married the pianist Earl Webster, and around that time the guitarist and singer Ashton Savoy tookMs. Webster to south Louisiana to make a recording with him.
        This was the beginning of a studio career that would encompass hundreds of records on Louisiana labels including Goldband and Excello. She recorded with many of the area's best-known regional musicians, including Slim Harpo, Lightnin' Slim, Clifton Chenier and Guitar Junior. She played on the original version of ''Sea of Love,'' by Phil Phillips.
        In 1964 Otis Redding played at the Bamboo Club, the Lake Charles bar where Ms. Webster's band the Uptighters often played. Redding was so taken by the heavy and exact timekeeping of her left hand that he hired her immediately; for the next three years she was both his opening act and the pianist in his band. (She played on such well-known Redding albums as ''Live at the Whiskey-a-Go-Go.'')
        She was pregnant and on leave from the band in 1967 when Mr. Redding undertook his final tour and died in a plane crash.
        Ms. Webster did not restart her career until 1982, when she toured Europe for the first time; her hollering voice and her charismatic innuendo-laden performances won her fans, and her second act had begun. She performed in the San Francisco Bay Area and around Europe through the 1980's and recorded for the Arhoolie and Alligator labels, with Bonnie Raitt and Robert Cray showing their support in guest appearances.
        A stroke in 1993 damaged her playing and her eyesight, although she continued to perform sporadically.
        In addition to Ms. Vereen, of League City, she is survived by another daughter, Audrey Johnson of Houston; two sisters, Earline Allen of Houston and Irma Dews of San Pablo, Calif.; three brothers, Cyrus, Robert and Cornelius Thorne, all of San Francisco; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      