
        Birgit Cullberg, a pioneering experimental choreographer in Sweden who earned an international reputation through her intense dramatic ballets and vigorous social-protest pieces, died on Wednesday in Stockholm, where she lived. She was 91.
        Although Miss Cullberg was a disciple of the German Expressionist choreographer Kurt Jooss, her own style fused modern dance and ballet. She was resident choreographer of the Royal Swedish Ballet from 1951 to 1957, and her most famous works were danced by ballet companies throughout the world.
        Among these was her acknowledged masterpiece, ''Miss Julie,'' based on the August Strindberg play; it had its premiere in Sweden in 1950. Restaged to great acclaim in 1958 for American Ballet Theater, ''Miss Julie'' was a triumph for Violette Verdy in the title role, as the Swedish aristocrat who seduces a butler, and for Erik Bruhn as Jean, the butler. Mr. Bruhn virtually made the role his own for 20 years through his astonishingly powerful portrayal.
        Ballet Theater staged three other Cullberg works, including the haunting Lapp tale ''Moon Reindeer.'' In 1958 the New York City Ballet presented Miss Cullberg's ''Medea'' with Melissa Hayden in the title role. In his review, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, ''There is not a superfluous phrase, a meaningless gesture, an item of mere decoration in the choreography from end to end.''
        Psychological insight was Miss Cullberg's strength, as she showed again in 1982 when the Cullberg Ballet, which she founded in 1967, made its belated United States debut at the Brooklyn Academy of Music with  Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden in attendance.
        Never shy about exploring the neurotic and the erotic, Miss Cullberg was represented by a duet, ''Adam and Eve,'' and an especially sensuous performance of ''Miss Julie,'' which nonetheless focused on the class differences between Julie and her servant. In ''Adam and Eve,'' Daniela Malusardi and Niklas Ek, Miss Cullberg's elder son, moved seamlessly from innocent playfulness to adult passion, a couple expelled from Eden but rejecting God as well.
        Most of the other choreography was by Mats Ek, Miss Cullberg's other son, who cast her as a Mother Africa figure in his ''Soweto.'' Miss Cullberg, then 74, came out swinging, kicking, fiery-eyed and goading the oppressed onstage to resist until they collapsed to the sound of gunshots. In 1991, with her long white hair still flying, Miss Cullberg performed in Mats Ek's television dance production ''The Old Woman and the Door.''
        She excelled in choreography for television. Her duet ''Red Wine in Green Glasses'' (1970) was shown on public television in the United States and was awarded the Prix Italia.
        Miss Cullberg started life in a secure, wealthy home, but she had a volatile relationship with Anders Ek, one of Sweden's leading actors, whom she married in 1942. They had three children: Niklas, a brilliant dancer; Mats, 54, and his twin, the actress Malin Ek. They survive her, as do several grandchildren.
        Miss Cullberg and her husband separated in 1949, and ''Medea,'' like many of her works, was interpreted by several Swedish critics as a piece that universalized her private emotions of the time.
        Miss Cullberg and her husband reconciled in 1959 and both joined the new Stockholm City Theater, she as a stage director. (She directed him in ''Othello.'') The couple eventually divorced, but in the late 1970's, after Mr. Ek's death, Miss Cullberg choreographed a meditation on their life entitled ''Dreams of Love and Death.''
        Born in Nykoping, Sweden, on Aug. 3, 1908, Miss Cullberg was the daughter of Ella W. Cullberg and Carl Cullberg, a bank director, and attended the University of Stockholm. After Jooss, the choreographer of the celebrated antiwar ballet ''The Green Table,'' appeared with his company in Stockholm, Miss Cullberg spent four years in England studying with him at Dartington Hall, an experimental arts center.
        Returning to Sweden in 1939, she formed a small company and danced solos inspired by animal movements. In the early 1940's she studied ballet and wrote dance criticism. In 1946 she and the choreographer Ivo Cramer formed the Swedish Dance Theater, which disbanded in 1948. As the Royal Swedish Ballet's resident choreographer, she staged eight ballets.
        In 1967 the Swedish Government established the current Cullberg Ballet. Writing in 1982 the Swedish critic Erik Naslund paid tribute to Miss Cullberg by declaring that it was her troupe, not the Royal Swedish Ballet, that was ''definitely the more prestigious company.''
      