
        Jeanne-Marie Darre, a French pianist whose interpretations of Chopin and Liszt solo works and the Saint-Saens Concertos were admired for their sophistication and interpretive inventiveness, died on Jan. 26 in Port Marly, France, where she lived. She was 93.
        Miss Darre was an elegant player who dazzled with the strength and clarity of her technique but was also a provocative interpreter. Her account of the Liszt Sonata in B minor, for example, was unusually slow but also uncommonly rich in lyricism and detail. Miss Darre also had considerable stamina. When she was 21 she played all five of the Saint-Saens Piano Concertos in a single program with the Concerts Lamoureux orchestra, conducted by Paul Paray. She repeated that feat twice and sometimes played all the Chopin Etudes and Preludes in a single recital program.
        Miss Darre was born in 1905 in Givet, France, a town near the Belgian border, and studied the piano with her mother until she was 10. She was then taken to the Paris Conservatory. Her principal teachers were Isidore Philipp and Marguerite Long, through whom she met and worked with several great French composers of the time, among them Faure, Saint-Saens and Ravel.
        She made her debut at 14 and at first pursued her career mostly in Europe. By the time she performed in the United States for the first time, in February 1962, she was a revered teacher at the Paris Conservatory, had been awarded the Legion of Honor and had been made a Chevalier des Arts et Lettres. She had also made several recordings that were treasured by collectors of piano works, so her debut at Carnegie Hall with Charles Munch and the Boston Symphony Orchestra was an eagerly anticipated event.
        Miss Darre played the Saint-Saens Concerto No. 2 on that occasion. Harold C. Schoenberg, reviewing the performance for The New York Times, described her as ''an exciting, formidable, electrical virtuoso, who can do anything at the keyboard and do it with aplomb.''
        ''But it is not all technique,'' he wrote. ''She has complete tonal control, and a massive sonority.''
        Miss Darre returned to give her first American recitals at the end of 1962, and returned regularly through the early 1980's, when she retired from the concert stage.
        Several of Miss Darre's recordings have appeared on compact disk in recent years. Among them are her mid-1960's traversals of the Chopin Preludes, Waltzes and Scherzos, on Vanguard Records, and a collection of recordings she made in Paris between 1922 and 1947, on VAI Audio.
        Miss Darre left no immediate family.
      