
        Bernadette O'Farrell, an actress best known for her role as Maid Marian in the 1950's television series ''The Adventures of Robin Hood,'' died this week at 75, The Daily Telegraph of London reported on Wednesday.
        Ms. O'Farrell was often seen in cinematic roles written by her husband, Frank Launder, the British screenwriter and director whose boisterous ''St. Trinian's'' movies, created with Sidney Gilliat and set in a girls' school, amused filmgoers during the 1950's and 60's. But it was her role as Maid Marian in the long-running Robin Hood series that catapulted her to stardom.
        The series became one of the first British television programs to succeed in the United States, and at the height of its popularity more than 30 million viewers in Britain and North America watched its weekly episodes. Essentially a traditional version of the legend, the series, which ran from 1955 until 1958 and starred Richard Greene in the title role, proved popular with younger viewers, partly because of its catchy theme song sung by Dick James. It also had a high standard of script writing, some of it by Ring Lardner Jr., who had been blacklisted in Hollywood for his suspected Communist sympathies.
        But after two years and 78 episodes, Ms. O'Farrell feared that she was becoming typecast, and in 1957 she left the series despite receiving thousands of letters begging her to stay.
        Born in Birr, County Offaly, Ireland, to a bank manager and a gifted amateur actress, Ms. O'Farrell nevertheless showed no interest in the stage. After being educated at a local convent, she was working as a lawyer's secretary when she was invited  to an audition by the film director Sir Carol Reed, who knew her father.
        There she met Launder, who gave her a small part in his 1947 film ''Captain Boycott,'' with Stewart Granger. In 1949 she appeared as a glamorous gym teacher in Launder and Gilliat's ''Happiest Days of Your Life,'' with Alastair Sim and Margaret Rutherford. She married Launder the next year; he died in 1997.
        In the early 1950's, Ms. O'Farrell combined stage work with small parts in her husband's films, including ''The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan''; ''The Genie,'' with Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and ''The Square Ring,'' a boxing tale in which she divorced her husband because she could not bear to see him battered. She last appeared in 1959 in Launder and Gilliat's ''Bridal Path'' before retiring to spend more time with her young family on their farm in Buckinghamshire, England.
        Later, she and Launder moved to Monaco, where they were active in local stage productions and charities.
        She is survived by two daughters.
      