
        Doreen Valiente, a self-proclaimed witch who in the mid-1950's wrote part of the liturgy now used by witches around the world, died in Brighton, England, on Sept. 1. She was 77.
        Through lectures and her many books, Ms. Valiente became the chief proselytizer of the white witch movement, which espouses use of magic, defined as Divine energy, for beneficial purposes.
        She was held by many to be the ''mother of modern paganism,'' according to The Times of London, which reported her death on Monday. As a coven of today's witches gather in a circle, it is her version of the Charge of the Goddess, a witches' liturgical text, that the priestess recites.
        ''Over the course of her life she witnessed -- and helped generate -- a sustained revival of witchcraft and paganism in Britain, despite repeated protestations by evangelical Christians,'' The Times said in its obituary.
        Phyllis W. Curott, president emeritus of Covenant of the Goddess, a New York-based umbrella organization for witches, said that in recent years millions of people had been drawn to witchcraft, but that the words written by Ms. Valiente remain central in virtually every ceremony.
        ''A common chord, uniting all, is a real love and appreciation for the Charge of the Goddess,'' she said.
        For Ms. Valiente, witchcraft became ever more inclusive, ultimately embracing feminism, environmentalism and a host of New Age concepts, including native American spirituality.
        ''It was an idea whose time had come,'' Ms. Valiente said in a 1991 interview, ''and these other things are also things whose time has come.''
        Ms. Valiente became a guiding force in the wicca movement, which derives its name from an old Anglo-Saxon word for witch, or the wise one.
        In the United States, Ms. Curott said, the number of wicca devotees now numbers three million to five million, making it one of the country's fastest growing beliefs.
        Ms. Valiente was born Doreen Dominy in London in 1922. She was brought up as a Christian and sent to a convent school, which she walked out of at 15, refusing to return.
        Biographers say that she experienced psychic episodes in her youth, and that by her late teens she was a practicing clairvoyant. She worked as a secretary by day.
        In 1944, she married Casimiro Valiente, a refugee from the Spanish Civil War who went on to fight with the Free French.
        In 1952, shortly after Britain had repealed its Witchcraft Act, which had outlawed witchery, she approached Cecil Williamson, then owner of the Museum of Witchcraft on the Isle of Man.
        Mr. Williamson put her in touch with Gerald Gardner, who headed a group of witches called the New Forest Coven. Mr. Gardner initiated her as a witch in 1953. Ms. Valiente became the coven's high priestess and collaborated with Mr. Gardner in putting an up-to-date spin on what was billed as the witches' ancient liturgy, ''Book of Shadows,'' written in segments during the 1950's
        The book was actually an eclectic mix, based principally on Charles Leland's ''Gospel of the Witches,'' published in 1899, but drawing also on Freemasonry, theosophy and the works of the Golden Dawn, a magical tradition of England and Ireland embraced by George Bernard Shaw and William Butler Yeats.
        Wicca began to be practiced with its new ritual and with Ms. Valiente in a prominent position. ''She became a high priestess during an era when witchcraft was still very much in the broom closet,'' Ms. Currot said.
        She was tapping into a rich and quixotic tradition. Witchcraft had persisted and sometimes been tolerated, despite laws against it going back to the seventh century.
        ''The story of witchcraft in Britain is unique, in both its form and mildness, when compared with the rest of Europe,'' wrote Ronald Holmes in his book, ''Witchcraft in British History'' in 1974.
        Ms. Valiente broke with Mr. Gardner in 1957 when he ignored the coven's vows of secrecy by aggressively seeking publicity. After the deaths of her mother in 1964 and husband in 1972 (neither of whom had approved of her career choice) she began to take a much more personal and active role in what witches simply call the craft.
        Her most important contribution to the movement was a stream of books, including ''An A B C of Witchcraft,'' published in 1973; ''Witchcraft for Tomorrow'' (1978), and ''The Rebirth of Witchcraft,'' (1989).
        A gauge of the growth of her movement is that 1964, when she gave the opening speech at the inaugural dinner at the Witchcraft Research Association, it was attended by 50 subscribers. In November 1977, she addressed an audience of 1,500 at the Pagan Federation Congress.
        Ron Cooke, a fellow believer who was her companion for most of the last two decades of her life, died in 1997. She left no close relatives, but made the Center for Pagan Studies in Surrey, England, principal beneficiary.
        ''She was a wise and wild woman, who definitely ran with the British equivalent of wolves,'' said Ms. Curott, who in 1985 won the case allowing witch clergy to perform weddings in New York City.
      