
        Irene Heskes, a historian and author who specialized in sacred and secular Jewish music, including music of the Yiddish theater, died on Thursday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. She was 76 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens.
        The cause was aplastic anemia, said Dr. Alan M. Kraut, her son-in-law.
        Ms. Heskes was born in Brooklyn and studied music and history at New York University, voice and piano at the Juilliard School, music education at the Eastman School of Music and arts administration at Harvard. She completed her studies of Jewish music at the School of Sacred Music at Hebrew Union College and the Cantors Institute at the Jewish Theological Seminary.
        Because she studied cantorial music in the 1950's, long before cantorial positions were available to women, Ms. Heskes worked as a researcher, writer and lecturer for the Theodor Herzl Institute of the Jewish Agency from 1964 to 1976. She was also the director of the National Jewish Music Council from 1968 to 1980 and a consultant to the American Jewish Historical Society and to libraries and academic institutions.
        In 1980 Ms. Heskes founded the American Yiddish Theater Music Restoration and Revival Project. Under her direction the project assembled, catalogued and microfilmed a comprehensive collection of Yiddish theater music, which is now available for study at the Library of Congress. In 1992 the library published Ms. Heskes's annotated catalogue and resource book based on the collection.
        Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994). At the time of her death she was working on another book, ''Yiddish-American Music: Melodies of Immigration, Acculturation and Assimilation.''
        Ms. Heskes is survived by her husband, Jacob Heskes; a daughter, Deborah Aviva Kraut of Bethesda, Md.; a son, Walter Morris Heskes of Edison, N.J., a granddaughter and two grandsons.
        Correction:  October 20, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Irene Heskes, an author and music historian, omitted a survivor. He is her brother, Lawrence Newman of Niskayuna, N.Y.
      