
        Nathalie Sarraute, the Russian-born French novelist who remained an influential and innovative literary figure long after she first gained fame as the doyenne of the Nouveau Roman movement in the late 1950's, died today at her home in Paris. She was 99 and also had a country home in Cherence in Normandy.
        In a writing career that lasted more than six decades, Mrs. Sarraute published 17 books, including 10 novels, although in her very first book, ''Tropisms,'' she already set the tone of her life's work. She took the book's title from the biological term for the involuntary reaction of plants to external stimuli and used it to describe the human impulses that precede gestures or words.
        All her subsequent books can be understood through the prism of these tropisms, which she once described as ''the interior movements that prepare our words and actions at the limits of our consciousness.'' On another occasion, she spoke of her writing as ''sub-conversation'' through which she captured and conveyed half-formed ideas and feelings in often hesitant dialogue.
        While ''tropisms'' became her tool for exploring the human spirit, her purpose was to break with the 19th-century novel of Balzac and Flaubert, which in her view, had been made obsolete by Kafka, Proust, Virginia Woolf and James Joyce. She considered these writers to be her mentors, but she went further, creating a stark literary form stripped of characters, plot and chronology, a form that Jean-Paul Sartre tagged the ''antinovel.''
        ''I believe that, through my novels, I showed that it was possible to write novels where the purely fictional element was freed from the conventions that encumbered it, just as the purely pictorial element in painting has freed itself from subject matter, perspective, and so on,'' Mrs. Sarraute wrote in an essay in The New York Times Book Review in 1964.
        In the 1950's, her innovative approach drew her toward several young French writers, among them Alain Robbe-Grillet, Michel Butor, Marguerite Duras, Claude Simon, and Robert Pinget, who came to be identified with the Nouveau Roman (a term borrowed from a critic for Le Monde). But while she enjoyed being discovered as a ''new novelist'' when she was already well into her 50's, her attacks on traditional literary form both anticipated and survived the movement.
        Born into an intellectual Jewish family in Ivanovo, Russia, on July 18, 1900, Natasha Tcherniak -- as she then was -- had an unsettling childhood. Her father, Elie, a chemist, and her mother, Pauline, a writer, separated when she was 2 and remarried,  and she was painfully shuttled back and forth between two countries and two sets of parents. She went to Paris with her mother in 1902, moved to St. Petersburg in 1905 and then returned to Paris in 1908, where she was then brought up by her father and his new wife, Vera.
        Soon fluent in German and English as well as French and Russian, she  studied law and literature at the Sorbonne and Oxford University before joining a Paris law firm in 1925, the same year that she married a fellow lawyer, Raymond Sarraute. After Germany occupied France in 1940, she escaped the fate of 76,000 Jews who were deported from France to German death camps by hiding out in a village and posing as Nicole Sauvage, the governess of her own three young daughters.
        She never returned to the Paris bar. In 1932, she had begun writing ''Tropisms,'' a book comprising 24 short sketches. She finished five years later, but it was not until 1939 that she found a publisher. After the war, dedicating herself entirely to writing, she became friends with Sartre, who offered to write a preface for her first novel, ''Portrait of a  Man Unknown'' (1948), which he famously described as ''an antinovel that reads like a detective story.'' He noted, ''Nathalie Sarraute has a horror of the tricks of the novelist.''
        Although Mrs. Sarraute was not drawn to existentialism, she remained friends with Sartre until Simone de Beauvoir came between them. ''She separated us completely,'' Mrs. Sarraute recalled in a 1990 interview with The Paris Review. ''But I heard that she couldn't bear Sartre having an intellectual relationship with anyone, male or female.''
        Like many French writers then and now, Mrs. Sarraute liked to work at a table in a cafe, in her case one at the Trocadero near her home in the 16th arrondissement. In his memoir ''Paris in the Fifties,'' the American journalist and author Stanley Karnow, who was briefly married to Mrs. Sarraute's eldest daughter, Claude, paints a portrait of the writer as ''a lean, severe-looking woman with a hawk nose, piercing black eyes and combed-back ebony hair.''
        At one point, Mr. Karnow recalled, he moved in with his wife's parents, although he was unsure whether Mrs. Sarraute's ''unpredictable Slavic temperament'' would prove too much. ''She could be uptight and relaxed, cantankerous and amiable, dour and cheerful,'' he wrote. ''Even so, I adored her -- or perhaps it was the intellectual electricity of her company.'' Mrs. Sarraute is survived by her daughter Claude and two other daughters, Anne and Dominique.
        In her second novel, ''Martereau'' (1953), Mrs. Sarraute used the natural intrigue of an extended family to explore her tropisms. The book sold few copies, but it sufficed to identify her as a ''new novelist.'' Just three years later, when she published ''The Age of Suspicion,'' this book of essays about her approach to literature was presented to the public as ''the first theoretical manifestation of the Nouveau Roman school.''
        Mrs. Sarraute was not prolific. After she published ''The Planetarium'' in 1959, it would take more than a decade for her to complete her next three novels -- ''The Golden Fruits'' (1963), ''Between Life and Death'' (1968) and ''Do You Hear Them?'' (1972) -- which had in common a complex and humorous self-criticism of her own creative process hidden inside a novel.
        Quintessentially French in its intellectual playfulness, ''The Golden Fruits'' revolved around a discussion of the merits and demerits of an imaginary, much-acclaimed book, also called ''The Golden Fruits,'' a discussion that enabled Mrs. Sarraute to demystify the solemn language of literary criticism through parody and caricature while, at the same time, raising disturbing questions. ''It is my most abstract work,'' she said at the time.
        Well received in France, ''The Golden Fruits'' appeared obscure to some American critics. ''The fact that this misty book contains some valid satirical points does not make it a rewarding novel,'' Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times in February 1964. ''When the experimental techniques shrink the size of fiction and squeeze the juices of life out of it, they are fruitless indeed.''
        Albeit eliminating even the narrator from some of her books (in which characters may be reduced to ''he,'' ''she'' and ''they''), Mrs. Sarraute was in fact always present as a form of mischievous puppeteer. In her 1983 autobiographical work, ''Childhood,'' however, she showed herself, at least how she remembered her turbulent first 12 years of life. And, typically, she recalled them through the impact of single words, like ''stupid'' and ''tragedy.''
        ''Childhood'' was written in her ''predialogue'' style, which she defined as the ''little bits of something still alive'' on the border of consciousness, ''something prior to language -- a sensation, a perception.'' These feelings, she said, must be captured before they're labeled with adult words because adult words both falsify experience and render it traumatizing.
        ''Childhood'' was adapted as a one-act play and presented in New York with Glenn Close. But it was less successful than several pieces that she wrote as radio plays and that were later staged, among them ''The Lie'' and ''Silence.'' In writing for theater, she was also forced to become more explicit. In novels, she said, the dialogue skimmed the surface of the sub-conversation. But in plays, the ''predialogue'' became a fully fledged dialogue. ''They later said my plays, in relation to my novels, were like a glove turned inside out,'' she told The Paris Review.
        Slowing down in the mid-1980's after the death of her husband, Mrs. Sarraute nonetheless never stopped writing, occasionally demonstrating that she remained as fascinated with her explorations of language as she had been a half-century or more earlier. ''You Don't Love Yourself,'' published in 1990, is a dialogue about self-hate in which, as often is the case, there is a counterpoint between language and emotion.
        ''Here,'' published in 1995 in France and in 1997 in the United States, just as Mrs. Sarraute's complete works were being reissued in France's legendary Pleiade Series, is as always a novel without plot or characters or perhaps, as suggested by Richard Burgin writing in The Washington Post, ''a poetic essay of ideas'' in which the author pursues ''the power and poverty of words.''
        In France, ''Here'' was described by some critics as Mrs. Sarraute's final testimony, an apt summation of her oeuvre. But she had not yet finished. In September 1997, at the age of 97, she published ''Ouvrez,'' or ''Open,'' a 130-page book in which she denounced the impoverishment of the French language. ''It seems completely mad,'' she remarked in one interview, ''but at my age one is allowed to write things that are completely mad.'' And, unsurprisingly, she was working on yet another book at the time of her death.
      