
        Penelope Mortimer, an English author who drew on her complex and often turbulent relationships with men in writing novels like ''The Pumpkin Eater'' and a heatedly debated account of the romantic life of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, died on Tuesday at a London hospice. She was 81 and lived in Willesden, a suburb in north London.
        Her dozen novels focus on the upper middle class in Britain. ''The Pumpkin Eater'' (1962), which dealt with a troubled marriage, was made into a successful film in 1964 starring James Mason and Anne Bancroft.
        Her novel ''My Friend Says It's Bulletproof'' (1968) is loosely based on an affair she had with a lawyer on a trip to Canada. ''Long Distance'' (1974), which tells Kafka-esque story of a woman confined to a bizarre institution, was one of the few novels to be published in its entirety in The New Yorker.
        Ms. Mortimer also wrote two highly praised volumes of memoirs and several television screenplays, including her adaptation of ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' the 1973 biography of Vita Sackville-West and her husband, Harold Nicolson, by Nigel Nicolson, their son.
        Shown in the United States in 1992 as a three-part series on ''Masterpiece Theater'' on PBS, the programs were upsetting to many viewers because of their portrayal of homosexual liaisons and lesbian love scenes.
        Ms. Mortimer was well known if not always beloved in Britain for her biography ''Queen Elizabeth: A Life of the Queen Mother'' (1986), which delved into the subject's romantic life before her marriage to the future King George VI.
        Ms. Mortimer, the former Penelope Ruth Fletcher, was born in Oxfordshire, the daughter of a vicar who periodically professed to have lost his faith in God. When she was 16, she attended the Central Educational Bureau for Women in London  to learn secretarial skills.
        In 1937 she married Charles Dimont, a Reuters correspondent with whom she lived in Vienna and observed the German annexation of Austria. Divorced in 1949, she married John Mortimer, the author, the same year.
        She is survived by a son, Jeremy Mortimer of London; five daughters, Madelon Dimont Burk of France, Caroline Bennett of London, Julia Mankowitz of London, Deborah Rogers of Cornwall, England, and Sally Silverman of Bristol, England, and 11 grandchildren.
        In the 1950's and 60's the couple were frequently photographed at London society events and, The London Daily Telegraph's obituary said, they ''seemed to represent the last word in marital chic.'' Behind this facade, however, Ms. Mortimer had  frequent bouts of depression. The marriage ended in divorce in 1972.
      