
        Wilma Curley, a ballet and Broadway dancer who became noted for restaging works by Jerome Robbins, died on Oct. 16 at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was liver failure, said the dancer Christian Holder, a friend.
        Ms. Curley was born in Brooklyn and trained in dance at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet. She performed with City Ballet from 1944 to 1957 and toured with Robbins's Ballets: U.S.A. from 1958 to 1961. Ms. Curley created roles in Robbins's ''Concert,'' ''New York Export: Op. Jazz'' and ''Moves'' and John Butler's ''Unicorn, the Gorgon and the Manticore.''
        One of Robbins's favorite dancers, Ms. Curley helped the choreographer with revivals of his dances and later became known herself for restaging his ballets for companies that included American Ballet Theater, City Ballet and the Joffrey Ballet. Ms. Curley was best known for her stylish, vibrant stagings of ''New York Export: Op. Jazz.''
        ''I think what appealed to Jerry was that she was a very unadorned dancer,'' Mr. Holder, whom Ms. Curley cast in Robbins ballets at the Joffrey, said. ''She was pivotal in the creation of many of those pieces, and so she was able to provide us with a psychological blueprint of Robbins.''
        Ms. Curley also performed on Broadway in musicals, including ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'' and ''West Side Story,'' in which she created the role of Graziella. She performed as a guest artist at Radio City Music Hall, on the television shows of Ed Sullivan, Perry Como and Garry Moore and in summer theater at Jones Beach. Ms. Curley also choreographed dances for the Alabama State Ballet, Harkness Ballet and Joffrey second company, for which she created her best-known piece, a comic ballet called ''Mother's Mozart '73'' in 1973.
        Ms. Curley's marriage to Pat Harrison ended in divorce. She is survived by two sons, Timothy and Gene, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Gail Clark of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Joan O'Brien, of Nanuet, N.Y.; and two granddaughters.
      