
        Mirra Komarovsky, a sociologist who was an innovative authority on gender, family and education, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93.
        Professor Komarovsky retired in 1970 after 32 years on the faculty of Barnard College. But she returned to Barnard in 1978 and became the chairwoman of its women's studies program for a time.
        She was an advocate for women who has been credited with having initiated the contemporary analysis of gender roles with her book ''Women in the Modern World: Their Education and Their Dilemmas'' (1953, Irvington).
        In that work she wrote that by making the purposes of women's education clearer, barriers to the attainment of a good life could be removed. As to the respective merits of training for a career and of education meant only for a homemaker, she wrote: ''To disagree with the antifeminist does not necessarily make one a feminist. We can reject the antifeminist program without having to embrace the old-fashioned feminism with its militant hostility towards, and its disparagement of, the homemaker.''
        In 1991, Ellen V. Futter, who was Barnard's president at the time, said Professor Komarovsky's ''research has been crucial to our understanding of today's women and the choices they make.''
        In that year Professor Komarovsky received the Distinguished Career Award of the American Sociological Association. Earlier, in 1973 and 1974, she was the second female president of the association, which was founded in 1905.
        In her book ''Women in College: Shaping New Feminine Identities'' (1985) she described changing views of work, family and men that were held by students in the class of 1983 at Barnard, a women's college.
        Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.'' She noted that Professor Komarovsky observed bleakly that, as Dr. Simmons put it, ''while attitudes have changed, institutions have not. The gains of the last decade, she warns, will only be secure when society develops permanent measures to support women in the workplace as well as in the home.''
        In researching the book, Professor Komarovsky used interviews, questionnaires and surveys to study the attitudes of more than 200 students in the Barnard class of 1983. Fully two-thirds of those young women were afflicted with what she called ''culture shock'' that differed from student to student. As Dr. Simmons put it, ''Ideas about virginity, femininity, sexual preferences and study habits all came under scrutiny as students' friendships evolved and intellectual challenges arose.''
        Professor Komarovsky found that 76 percent of the female students planned, at the time they entered Barnard, on combining career, marriage and children in the coming years. And by the time the class graduated, fully 85 percent of its members had come to have that threefold ambition.
        Two observations of Professors Komarovsky's that Dr. Simmons found intriguing were her finding that the most highly career-minded students had mothers who had not worked and regretted it -- or mothers who worked and enjoyed it; and her suggestion that the young women sought a mixture of sensitivity, self-awareness and masculinity in men.
        Professor Komarovsky also found that most of the women she surveyed found it hard to attain relationships that they considered satisfactory with men, although those women had had chances to interact with men from a variety of backgrounds.
        Rather similarly, Professor Komarovsky wrote, on the New York Times Op-Ed page in 1981: ''Young women are becoming aware that the call to equal opportunities for women outside the home is an empty slogan as long as the society insists on traditional role segregation within the family. Some women react to this discovery with equanimity, others with frustration, resignation or indignation. But the real touchstone of their aspirations is the longing for a society in which the rhetoric of equality will be realized as fact. There is no denying that this would require major institutional changes.''
        What to do? ''We have much to learn from Sweden,'' Professor Komarovsky wrote: ''Modified work patterns for both sexes, housing patterns permitting more-cooperative ties among child-rearing families, accessible child-care centers of high quality for all economic classes.''
        Over the years, she also wrote about various aspects of sociology, including theory and methodology.
        She was born in Baku, on the Caspian Sea, in what was then Russia, to Mendel Komarovsky and the former Anna Steinberg, and she was raised largely in Baku. When she was 17, she and her family emigrated to the United States. She attended a high school for a year in Wichita, Kan., where some members of her family lived, and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1926 from Barnard, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was taught by the anthropologists Ruth Benedict and Franz Boas.
        Nonetheless, as the book ''Women in Sociology'' (1991, Greenwood), edited by Mary Jo Deegan, reports: ''Komarovsky was puzzled'' by Barnard's ''extolling intellectual excellence while discouraging women from pursuing careers.''
        She received a master's degree in 1927 and a doctorate in 1940, both in sociology, and both from Columbia. Her doctoral thesis was published as a book, ''The Unemployed Man and His Family'' (1940).
        Earlier, she was a co-author of the book ''Leisure: A Suburban Study'' (1934). In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
        She was chairman of the sociology department at Barnard from 1949 to 1968 and was president of the Eastern Sociological Society in 1955 and 1956.
        But she recalled years later that in the 1940's and even later, choosing women's issues to do research on was at a cost to her. The field lacked academic glamor and was not likely to further a career.
        An early marriage, in 1926, ended in divorce in 1928. In 1940, she married Marcus A. Heyman, who died in 1970.
        Her survivors include a sister, Dolly Cheser of Rockville Centre, L.I., and five nieces and one nephew.
      