
        Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter. She was 100.
        Miss (her preference) Foveaux (pronounced FOH-voh), a snowy-haired great-great-grandmother, lived a literary fairy tale when she turned a memoir she wrote in a writing class for senior citizens in her hometown, Manhattan, Kan., into the book ''Any Given Day.''
        In a 1997 auction Warner Books paid $1 million for the rights to publish the book.
        In its 208 pages, she told of the quietly heroic struggle of a woman to win her independence while she was in a bitter marriage to an alcoholic. She worked in a laundry and as a nurse's aid to support her eight children before and after the divorce.
        Her book, never intended for publication, ''just poured out,'' said Charley Kempthorne, a part-time farmer who taught a writing class at the Manhattan Adult Learning Center. ''She had bottled it up for many, many years.''
        Miss Foveaux was an unschooled and unskilled writer, but she was clearly a born storyteller. Her words were straightforward. Of her decision to divorce, she wrote, ''I made up my mind to live my life so that I need not be ashamed to look at myself in a mirror.''
        The book, which she began in 1977 and took several years to write, came to light only after an article about it appeared in 1997 on the front page of The Wall Street Journal to which Mr. Kempthorne had sent a copy. The article set off a frenzy to buy the book, leading to the auction.
        The editor who acquired it, Claire Zion, called the writing ''very plain, very clear,'' and said that it would be altered only insignificantly for publication. ''We in New York try to sit here and think what the country is thinking,'' she said. ''This is Kansas talking.''
        The book auction and the publicity visit to New York transported her to a new world. Miss Foveaux flew for the first time, took limousines, stayed at fancy hotels, appeared on talk shows and was written about in newspapers. She took it all with a big grain of salt.
        ''I imagine I'll be like everyone else that ever got into a mess like this,'' she said.
        The book was published in 1997 and remains in print but was not a best seller, despite the wide pre-publication publicity it received.
        Miss Foveaux was born in Holden, Mo., in 1899, at a time when the world of Mark Twain was fading into memory. Her early childhood was spent on a small Missouri farm, but then her family moved frequently, to Arkansas and Washington State, among other places. As World War I started, she got her first job and fell in love with a young soldier. He vanished in the war, her beloved mother died, and the Depression wreaked hardship. She had eight children. As her book related, she struggled to maintain them in difficult circumstances.
        She is survived by two daughters, Faye Marie Rutledge of Winder, Ga., and Aleda Torgerson of Silver Bay, Minn., and a son, Marion, of Manhattan, Kan., as well as 16 grandchildren, 24 great-grandchildren and five great-great-grandchildren.
        In an interview after the $1 million auction, she was asked if she would buy cars and houses for her relatives. She shot back, ''They didn't help me, did they?'' The article describes family members bursting into nervous laughter.
      