
        Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said. She was 70.
        She founded a nunnery several years ago near Katmandu, Nepal, one of the first Tibetan Buddhist nunneries outside of Tibet. It was a major step toward recapturing women's traditionally strong role in Tibetan Buddhism, said Gene Smith, a Boston-based publisher of Buddhist books. Ms. Silverstone worked for the photo agency Magnum -- photographing subjects from Albert Schweitzer to the coronation of the Shah of Iran -- but her last years were spent establishing the nunnery.
        ''She was very interested in helping other women,'' said Jean Thies, a Buddhist living in Manhattan who has a business importing Tibetan Buddhist goods into the United States. Ms. Thies and others said this was a response to a diminished religious role for women in the Buddhist communities in exile from Tibet. Mr. Smith said, ''Women had come to be regarded as just handmaidens to the clergy.''
        Ms. Silverstone's personal transformation, from a stylish photographer in Dior suits to a nun with a shaved head and running shoes dyed purple to go with her maroon robes, struck friends and colleagues as remarkable. As for herself, she saw the personal journey to her ultimate Buddhist identity, Ngawang Chodron, as essentially inevitable.
        ''The only way to make my inside match my outside was to become a nun,'' she wrote.
        Ms. Silverstone was born on March 9, 1929, in London, grew up in Scarsdale and graduated from Wellesley College in 1950. Her father was a movie executive who worked with Charlie Chaplin and other early movie stars; her mother, late in life, decided to get an education and graduated from college at 80.
        Ms. Silverstone's first jobs were with art and design magazines, including Art News. In 1955, she became a freelance photographer. She went to India on an assignment to photograph Ravi Shankar in 1956 and fell in love with Frank Moraes, then editor of The Indian Express. They lived together until 1974, socializing in an elite set of politicians, journalists and intellectuals.
        Her reputation as a photographer grew, and in 1967 she became a full member of Magnum, which is organized as a photographer-owned cooperative. She covered such big events as the arrival of the Dalai Lama in India, but it was the insights into Indian life, particularly in the villages, that she most cherished.
        One famous image showed an Indian princess sitting shyly in sunglasses surrounded by 265 tigers her husband had shot. Ms. Silverstone avoided ''poverty pictures,'' calling them an Indian cliche.
        Increasingly, she came to see taking pictures as predatory, once suggesting that subjects become ''like pieces of meat.'' But she readily admitted that she herself would often choose the most abject case in a line of poor children to make her journalistic point. ''You find you are getting glib with your hands,'' she said.
        So she was ready to complete a journey that had begun when, as a child suffering from the mumps, she picked up ''Secret Tibet'' by Fosco Maraini. She said the book provided a key she long carried in her subconscious, the mysticism of Tibet. Mr. Moraes died in 1974 and she became a nun in 1977.
        In 1987, she was fully ordained in a ceremony in Hong Kong.
        Friends say she exhibited a hearty sense of humor, one laced with American Jewish expressions. She wrote several books, including several children's books published in the 1960's. In 1985, she published ''Ocean of Life: Visions of India and Himalayan Kingdoms.'' Just before her death, she finished translating a book by an 18th-century female lama into English.
        Besides Ms. Darer, she is survived by another sister, Barbara S. Garrison.
        Starting on Nov. 5, the work of five Magnum photojournalists, including Ms. Silverstone, will be exhibited at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh. In a biography of her, one of the other photographers, Eva Arnold, quoted Ms. Silverstone summing up her life.
        ''I can say that I did it all,'' Ms. Silverstone was quoted as saying. ''The secret though is just keep walking through life without analyzing it too much or clinging to it too much. Just walk on.''
        Correction:  October 6, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the photographer and Buddhist nun Marilyn Silverstone on Monday misstated the given name of a photojournalist whose work, along with hers and others', will be exhibited at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh beginning Nov. 5. The photojournalist is Eve Arnold, not Eva.
      