
        Amalia Rodrigues, the Portuguese singer who was considered the queen of fado, died yesterday at her home in Lisbon. She was 79.
        Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary.
        Fado, which means fate in Portuguese, is a passionate, volatile, haunted style that originated in the cafes and taverns of Lisbon. Played on the round, bright-toned 12-string Portuguese guitar, with Arabic elements that make it kin to Spanish flamenco, fado is filled with the quality called saudade in Portuguese: a mixture of sadness and nostalgia, longing and resignation. Its lyrics are bleak and fatalistic, with their suffering described in the first person. Ms. Rodrigues performed in the black clothes of mourning, with her head thrown back and her face like a mask of tragedy, singing in a voice that was at once tearful and fierce.
        ''I have so much sadness in me, I am a pessimist, a nihilist, everything fado demands in a singer, I have in me,'' Ms. Rodrigues once said. ''When I am on my own, alone, tragedy comes, and solitude.''
        During more than 50 years as a performer, Ms. Rodrigues was acclaimed as the definitive voice of fado, revered in Portugal and acclaimed as its musical representative around the world. When her death was announced, Portugal's radio stations dropped regular programming and began broadcasting tributes. The Prime Minister of Portugal, Antonio Guterres, ordered three days of national mourning. Reuters reported that Mr. Guterres said: ''It is a moment of great sadness. She was the voice of Portugal.''
        Amalia Rodrigues was born in 1920 in the Alfama district of Lisbon, the cradle of fado. She was one of 10 children in a working-class family and was reared by her grandmother. She sold fruit in the streets and worked as a seamstress before she began to perform as a tango dancer.
        As a teen-ager her renditions of tangos built a reputation, and she began singing professionally in 1939. At first her family did not approve of her singing tango and fado, songs associated with the lower classes and the underworld.
        She made her first recordings in 1945 in Portugal and in Rio de Janeiro. In 1952 she signed to the Valentim de Carvalho label and began to reshape the tradition. She combined the urban and rural styles of Lisbon and Coimbra; she chose lyrics that reached beyond stories of heartbreak to muse on God and destiny.
        Ms. Rodrigues began to tour beyond Portugal after World War II. She performed regularly in Brazil, Spain, France and Britain and eventually gave concerts in the United States, Japan, Mexico and the Soviet Union. She recorded more than 170 albums that were released in 30 countries, and appeared in a dozen films, notably ''Les Amants du  Tage'' (''Lovers of the Tagus''), by the French director Henri Verneuil.
        Fado fell from its commercial peak during the 1960's, and after 1974, when a revolution removed the dictator Antonio Salazar, fado was associated by many Portuguese with the authoritarian regime. ''I always sang fado without thinking of politics,'' Ms. Rodrigues said. ''I never had the support of any government.''
        By then, Ms. Rodrigues was known around the world. At her concerts, including her last New York City performance at Town Hall in 1990, rapt listeners sang along to her songs of love and death. In the 1990's she had heart surgery and retired from singing because of poor health. She made her last public appearance in 1998 in Lisbon, singing at the opening of Expo 1998.
      