
        Susan Strasberg, who at 17 electrified Broadway with her luminous portrayal of the title role of ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and -- with highs and lows professional and private -- went on to a career onstage and in movies, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60 and also had a home in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cancer, said her stepmother, Anna Strasberg.
        As the daughter of Lee Strasberg, the director of the Actors Studio, and the acting coach Paula Miller, Ms. Strasberg spent her childhood surrounded by celebrated figures of the American theater, people who were, she said, ''supremely talented, alive, sensitive, eccentric, and some were neurotic and miserable.''
        When she made her Broadway debut as Anne Frank in 1955, she was unknown, except for her last name. She had appeared in an Off Broadway play and had acted in two films, ''The Cobweb'' and ''Picnic,'' that had not been released. And she had never studied acting with her father.
        With a naturalness and an authority that belied her limited theatrical experience, she was an astonishing success in her first major role. In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson characterized her as ''a slender, enchanting young lady with a heart-shaped face, a pair of burning eyes and the soul of an actress.''
        Ms. Strasberg's father was among those surprised by her performance. He and his wife had tried to talk to her about the interpretation of the role, but then left her to work on her own and with her director, Garson Kanin. ''When we saw Susie in action  we were all amazed at her great sensitivity,'' Mr. Strasberg said at the time. ''I just don't know how she picked it all up. She's never had any formal training.''
        Ms. Strasberg was born in Manhattan, and her birth announcement heralded her as ''a four-star hit.'' After working briefly as a model, she made her theatrical debut Off Broadway in ''Maya,'' and followed that with several roles on television, including ''Romeo and Juliet,'' live on the Kraft Television Theater.
        She auditioned for the role of Anne Frank, but the producer Kermit Bloomgarden made no decision about casting and the show was postponed. When the play was rescheduled in 1955, Ms. Strasberg was in Hollywood acting in the film of William Inge's ''Picnic.'' Mr. Bloomgarden and Albert and Frances Hackett, the authors of the play ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' asked her to read for the role again.
        ''Susan was so terrified at the thought of being rejected that she declined to read at all,'' Mr. Bloomgarden had said in an interview. ''Finally, with tears in her eyes, Susan did read the last, touching scene from play. Within 10 minutes, she knew the part was hers.''
        The play was an enormous hit, running for two years and winning the Pulitzer Prize for drama and the New York Drama Critics award and Tony Award for best play. Within the year, she was a certified Broadway star, with her name above the title on the Cort Theater marquee.
        In 1957 she starred with Richard Burton and Helen Hayes in Jean Anouilh's ''Time Remembered.'' The next year she was in the Actors Studio revival of Sean O'Casey's ''Shadow of a Gunman'' and then she toured with Franchot Tone in ''Caesar and Cleopatra.'' In 1963 she returned to Broadway in the title role of Franco Zeffirelli's production of ''The Lady of the Camellias.'' When her first two films were released, she was on her way to movie stardom, and was soon playing opposite Henry Fonda in ''Stage Struck.''
        Within several years, her career had crested and her private life was in turmoil. In the early 1960's she  was using a wide variety of drugs. When she wrote her autobiography in 1980, it was titled ''Bittersweet,'' a word that seemed to sum up her life. Her marriage to the actor Christopher Jones had ended. Her daughter, Jennifer, was born with a congenital birth defect: Ms. Strasberg blamed herself even though there was no medical evidence linking the drugs and the daughter's disabilities.
        A reason she wrote her book, she  said, was that her career was stalled: ''It become totally untenable to me that after acting for 25 years -- I've played Juliet, Cleopatra and Anne Frank -- there I was, sitting in Hollywood, just waiting for somebody to want me.'' Her films include ''Kapo,'' ''The Trip,'' ''Manitou,'' ''Delta Force'' and ''Prime Suspect.'' In the book, she criticized her father for being preoccupied with his acting classes and she criticized her mother for being overly supervisory about her daughter's work.
        She was also close to some of her father's students, especially Marilyn Monroe, whom she wrote about in ''Bittersweet'' and in her 1992 book, ''Marilyn and Me, Sisters, Rivals and Friends.''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, Ms. Strasberg is survived by her brother, John, who lives in Paris and New York, and by two half-brothers.
        Even as Ms. Strasberg's life spiraled, those who saw her in her Broadway debut remembered her as the image of Anne Frank. After that opening night performance, she entered Sardi's with her parents, followed by Ms. Monroe. Before the reviews were read, Mr. Tone offered a toast: ''Little Susan, you have been launched on a long and glittering career.''
      