
        Mary C. Weitzman, who was a chorus girl as a teenager, a college freshman at 35, later a professor and finally a respected medical researcher, died on Saturday at a Manhattan hospital. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        As a researcher at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx, she worked on isolating microscopic samples of endocrine hormones from the eyestalks of Bermuda land crabs, some of which she captured herself. The work provided evidence for the once radical but now established theory that nerves secrete hormones in small but extremely influential quantities.
        Until a year ago, Dr. Weitzman was still taking two subways and a bus to work each day from her Upper West Side apartment. It was the last leg of a journey that began in Norfolk, Va., where she was born in 1914 to two poor Eastern European immigrants. She dropped out of high school to dance in a chorus line, much to the delight of her father, a frustrated vaudevillian.
        She married J. Daniel Weitzman, an investor and art collector, who made headlines in the 1970's when more than $400,000 of his artworks were stolen from his home by three gunmen who left him bound and gagged.
        The Weitzmans were involved in the early stages of the civil rights movement, even before it was generally called that, and in 1948 they opened the Dupont Theater, the first desegregated theater in Washington.
        Because of the Weitzmans' politics, the American Legion picketed the theater and Hollywood distributors cut off the supply of films. The Dupont therefore came to specialize in foreign and avant-garde films. Chess tables and espresso added to the bohemian atmosphere.
        In 1949, the Weitzmans, neither of whom had graduated from high school, enrolled at George Washington University. Mr. Weitzman dropped out because of a business deal. Mrs. Weitzman went on to earn a master's degree.
        In 1957, the couple moved to New York City when Mrs. Weitzman was accepted by Einstein's doctoral program, which at the time was jointly administered by Columbia University. She received her doctorate in 1963, staying on to join the Einstein anatomy department.
        For years, she single-handedly published Bibliographica Neuroendocrinologica, an abstract of the world's research in her field. Colleagues said that part of her motivation was to spread new findings to third world countries. She personally translated articles from German, French, Spanish and Russian.
        Her research was done with two other Einstein scientists, Berta and Ernst Scharrer, who are often credited as founders of endocrinology, which describes how hormones control the nervous system.
        The Weitzmans were divorced in 1962. Mr. Weitzman died in 1980.
        Dr. Weitzman is survived by two sons, Donald, of Brookline, Mass., and David, of Orinda, Calif.; a sister, Frances Pasmanick of Washington; two brothers, Harold Cohen of Arlington, Va., and Norman Cohen of Venice, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
        Dr. Weitzman's impact was as much human as scientific, said Sam Seifter, a professor of biochemistry at Einstein. She worked with students one-to-one in the laboratory, devoted herself to helping minority students, and often counseled students on personal problems.
        Sometimes, in the anatomy department's lunchroom, her colorful past would return when she burst into song; she favored old-time show tunes, the Loyalist songs of the Spanish Civil War and the anthems of the civil rights movement.
      