
        Dr. Naomi Bluestone, a medical writer, a practitioner, a teacher and a ''Dear Abby'' to a generation of aspiring doctors, died Nov. 13 at her home in Center Barnstead, N.H. She was 63 and had moved there from Great Neck, N.Y., in 1991.
        The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said her husband, Robert Press.
        Dr. Bluestone wrote about 200 articles in professional as well as lay journals. She wrote a book, ''So You Want to Be a Doctor?'' (William Morrow, 1981), for college students contemplating medical careers and fielded the question with humor and satire.
        Her main interests were in social and public health and psychiatry, and she continued to write about them to the end. Until two years ago, her general psychiatric practice in Center Barnstead drew patients from near and far.
        Born in Wilmington, Del., she graduated from the University of Delaware with an English major. Changing course, she graduated from Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1962 and trained in psychiatry in New York in the 1980's.
        In between, Dr. Bluestone held teaching and administrative posts in New York at Mount Sinai Hospital, Bird S. Coler Memorial Hospital and Montefiore Hospital. She was also  the city's assistant commissioner of health for chronic and long-term care in the 1970's.
        She wrote on many issues confronting American medicine, particularly those affecting women as doctors and patients. Dr. Bluestone also helped organize national conferences and seminars on the challenges for female doctors and the special problems of female patients.
        She wrote columns for such publications as The New Physician, Medical Dimensions and Resident and Staff Physician. As an editor she was associated with The New York State Journal of Medicine and The Journal of Community Health.
        ''I was getting letters from medical students,'' Dr. Bluestone said in an interview after her book was published, ''and the medical students would pour their hearts out to me to the point where I was starting to feel like the Dear Abby of the medical profession.''
        She said some asked advice about the dictatorial atmosphere of hospitals and the terror and loneliness of internship, adding, ''The women, in particular, wrote to me about sexism, discrimination, problems juggling career, home, family, husband.''
      