
        Gladys Yang, a British translator who spent most of her life in China, translating and promoting Chinese literature for foreign readers, died Thursday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. She was 80.
        ''After such famous translators from Chinese as Arthur Waley and James Legge of an earlier generation, Gladys Yang was No. 1,'' said Perry Link, a professor of modern Chinese language and literature at Princeton University.
        ''She ran the gamut -- going as far back as China's classical period in the 5th century B.C., through later imperial works in the 7th through 19th centuries, and on to the moderns,'' Professor Link said.
        Mrs. Yang was born in Beijing in 1919 to British parents and moved to Britain with them when she was 4. . She graduated in 1940 from St. Anne's College at Oxford University, the college's first student to receive a bachelor's degree in Chinese literature, the official newspaper China Daily reported.
        She married a fellow Oxford student, Yang Xianyi, and the couple returned to China, where she taught for a while in Chongqing, China's wartime capital. After the Communist takeover in 1949, the Yangs began careers in Beijing devoted to translating Chinese literature for the Foreign Languages Press, the magazine Chinese Literature and other publishing houses.
        Among Mrs. Yang's major translations was ''The Selected Stories of Lu Xun'' (Foreign Languages Press, 1960) by one of the foremost Chinese writers of the early 20th century.
        Mrs. Yang's relationship to the Communist government was at times tense, although in general she and her husband occupied a privileged position.
        In the mid-1950s, Mrs. Yang translated ''Keep the Red Flag Flying'' (China Youth Publishing House, 1957) by Liang Bin, a pro-Communist socialist realist novel; she expressed no reservations about the propagandistic nature of the work.
        Like many foreign intellectuals living in China during the tumultuous Cultural Revolution, from 1966 to 1976, Mrs. Yang was persecuted and jailed. In the hope of sparing their son from the worst excesses of the period, the Yangs sent him to London. Once there, he committed suicide by burning down the house he was living in.
        After the Beijing massacre of 1989, when troops moved in to suppress the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, Mrs. Yang and her husband gave a joint television interview deploring the brutality of the government's actions. But they did not leave Beijing or publicly disavow Communism. ''She clung to it the way someone holds on to a stock that falls in value,'' said Professor Link, who knew Mrs. Yang. ''She kept hoping that it would rise again.''
      