
        Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio. She was 58 and lived in Dayton.
        The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contemporary Dance.
        In addition to guiding the small modern-dance troupe to national prominence over its 30 years of existence, Mrs. Blunden developed a number of leading American modern dance performers, among them the former Alvin Ailey star Donna Wood. Mrs. Blunden, who was awarded a MacArthur Foundation grant in 1994, was also a major and much-honored proponent of the contributions of black choreographers and performers to American modern dance.
        But Mrs. Blunden had mixed feelings about that role. ''Everything in America is labeled,'' she said in a 1996 interview. ''You could call what I do black dance because I'm a black-dance person. What I do is from a black perspective. But people who are sure of themselves don't bother with that.'' That no-nonsense approach to life was mixed with steely determination, a great personal warmth and humor and an unsentimental humanity that made her a much-loved figure on the national dance scene.
        Mrs. Blunden began her dance training at 8, in Dayton, her hometown, with Josephine and Hermene Schwarz , the founders of the Dayton Ballet. As a teenage student at the American Dance Festival, Mrs. Blunden had her first important experience of modern dance. ''There was Martha Graham,'' she recalled in 1996. ''Jose Limon. Merce Cunningham was the new young man on the block and we flocked to his classes, of course. My first musical concert away from home was John Cage. I thought I was in the wrong place because he played everything but the keys on the piano.'' Dayton Contemporary Dance Company would later become the first black dance troupe to acquire a Cunningham work, ''Channels/Inserts.''
        Mrs. Blunden performed with several ballet and modern companies in Dayton, continuing her dancing through college, marriage and motherhood, when she began to teach. She took her students to regional ballet competitions around the country and raised money to bring them to a summer session at Arthur Mitchell's Dance Theater of Harlem in New York. She formed the company to give her dancers a place to perform, at first creating the repertory herself. One of her early dancers was her daughter, Debbie Blunden-Diggs. She chose her daughter along with the choreographer and dancer Kevin Ward to succeed her as artistic directors of the company.
        Mrs. Blunden's honors also included the Dance Magazine Award of 1998 and the 1999 Dance USA Honors Award. In 1997, she was one of five female dance company directors honored as ''living legends'' by 651: An Arts Center.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      