
        Sufia Kamal, a Bangladeshi poet, political activist and feminist, died at age 88 on Nov. 20 and was buried four days later with full state honors, the first woman to receive that recognition from Bangladesh.
        As the national flag was lowered and buglers saluted, about 10,000 people paid their respects to Ms. Kamal at her funeral on Wednesday in Dhaka.
        Born into wealth, she had devoted her life to fighting for the rights of women and the poor and against the forces of religious fundamentalism.
        ''This poet was the beacon for our great language movement and liberation war, and inspiration for all democratic movements of the nation,'' Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh said at the ceremony. ''This poet was a vast source of inspiration for building up womenfolk as self-reliant.''
        Sufia Kamal was born in 1911 in Barisal, the southern district of what is now Bangladesh, the only daughter of an eminent lawyer. As a woman, she did not have an opportunity to pursue an education, but she educated herself in her uncle's library with her mother's encouragement.
        She was first married at the age of 11 to her cousin Syed Nehal Hossain, then a law student. They had a daughter, Amena Kahnar, and Mr. Hossain died in 1932. Five years later, Ms. Kamal married Kamaluddin Ahmed.
        In addition to her first daughter, Ms. Kamal is survived by two other daughters, Sultana Kamal and Saida Kamal; two sons, Shahed Kamal and Sazid Kamal; three grandsons, and three great-granddaughters.
        She published her first story at 14,  and her prose and poems drew favorable notice. Some works were aimed at children. Some were translated into English and Russian. Increasingly, she wrote against religious communalism, fundamentalism and superstitions. She promoted democracy and women's emancipation.
        ''The culture was to keep the women at home, train them in household chores and make them perfect women: docile, ready to please everyone in the family,'' she said in an interview earlier this year. ''There was a strong anti-British movement, and my family also believed that women should stay out of it.
        ''But I had an indomitable nature and I crossed my limits to get a taste of all there was. I was allowed to learn Arabic and a little Persian, but not Bengali. I made it a point to learn Bengali from people working in the house.'' That became the language she used for her writing.
        Though she called herself a romantic poet, her work more and more reflected the struggles to preserve the Bengali language and culture and to fight Pakistani rulers. During Bangladesh's struggle for independence from Pakistan in the early 1970's she worked to help women hurt by the war. She also worked with an organization to try to bring to justice those Pakistani officials whom the Bangladeshis considered war criminals.
        In later life, she made women's rights her top priority and headed Bangladesh's largest women's organization for many years. She did not see the oppression of women as mainly a class issue.
        ''My own experience as a woman made me sensitive toward the condition of women of all classes,'' she said. ''Be poor or middle class or upper class, the violence against women in family, society and in public life was always there. Women were exploited and deprived of opportunities.''
        In 1993, an Islamic fundamentalist group called for her execution as punishment for her denunciation of the fundamentalists' treatment of women. Her response was quiet resistance rather than the stronger advocacy of an earlier Bangladeshi poet, Taslima Nareen, who fled the country for fear of reprisals.
        Ms. Kamal's strongest and most thoughtful sentiments may have appeared in her poems rather than her prose.
        One poem, ''Our Language: The Language of Bengal,'' ends with the following lines:
        For our language many have died,
        drawn from the arms of our mother
        but down the road, smeared with their blood
        I hope freedom will come to this land:
        the simple language of a simple people
        Will meet the demands of this our land.
        Before her death Ms. Kamal specified that she preferred to be buried in a simple private cemetery rather than in the national cemetery, where her nation's leaders had suggested she be buried. Her views on the country's leaders, expressed in the interview earlier this year, suggest why.
        ''Our people are courageous; our leaders are not,'' she said. ''Today they recourse to bombastic rhetoric but never take bold decisions because they may be unpleasant. Why? Because they lack courage.''
      