
        Gertrude B. Elion, a pioneer in drug research who shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1988, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where she lived. She was 81.
        Ms. Elion developed drugs for use in a vast array of conditions. They included drugs for herpes, leukemia, malaria, gout, immune disorders, and AIDS, and immune suppressants to overcome rejection of donated organs in transplant surgery. In perfecting one compound after another, Ms. Elion worked for four decades with Dr. George H. Hitchings, who died a year ago.
        Ms. Elion broke down sex barriers in the male-dominated world of scientific research, becoming one of the rare women to win a Nobel Prize and, even rarer, a scientist who did not have a doctorate.
        Ms. Elion shared the Prize with Dr. Hitchings, who hired her as a $50-a-week assistant in 1944. Also sharing the Prize was Sir James Black of Britain, who discovered two classes of drugs, beta blockers, for high blood pressure and heart disease, and H-2 antagonists, for ulcers.
        Seldom does the Nobel committee in Stockholm honor employees of pharmaceutical companies, but all three that year worked or had worked for such a company. Ms. Elion and Dr. Hitchings collaborated throughout their careers at the company known today as Glaxo Wellcome. In awarding the Prize to the three scientists, the Nobel committee said their work ''had a more fundamental significance than their discovery of individual drugs.''
        Ms. Elion was noted for her precise work, intellectual brilliance and ability to work with others.
        Few scientists matched the wide array of drugs that Ms. Elion and Dr. Hitchings developed. The drugs include acyclovir (Zovirax) for herpes; azathioprine (Imuran) to help prevent rejection of transplanted organs and in treatment of severe rheumatoid arthritis; allopurinol (Zyloprim) for gout; pyrimethamine (Daraprim) for malaria and trimethoprim (a component of Septra) for bacterial infections.
        The two worked in lock step for much of their careers, but Dr. Hitchings was always one step ahead of Ms. Elion; as he moved into a new job, she filled the old one.
        The two scientists wrote many papers together, sometimes with her name first, sometimes his. As Ms. Elion said, ''He had two arms of research and I was one of them.''
        In 1991, President George Bush awarded Ms. Elion a National Medal of Science, saying her work had ''transformed the world.''
        Gertrude Belle Elion was born in New York City on Jan. 23, 1918, and graduated with highest honors in chemistry from Hunter College in 1937. Ms. Elion decided to go into medical research as a teen-ager after her grandfather died of cancer and her father, a dentist and Lithuanian immigrant, encouraged her to develop a career. Her mother was from Russia.
        But unable to find a laboratory position because she was a woman, Ms. Elion took a succession of jobs. First, she worked as a laboratory assistant in biochemistry. Then she worked as a food analyst, checking the acidity of pickles and making sure the berries slated for jam were not moldy. Next, she taught chemistry and physics in the New York City school system before earning a master's degree in chemistry at New York University in 1941.
        After working for Johnson & Johnson for two years, Ms. Elion, helped by labor shortages in World War II, joined what was then Wellcome Research Laboratories, in Tuckahoe, N.Y., as a biochemist. Ms. Elion later became head of the company's experimental therapy department.
        She retired in 1983, but continued working, helping to oversee work on the development of AZT as the first drug against H.I.V., the AIDS virus. Ms. Elion also served on the faculty of Duke University and the University of North Carolina.
        While working for the drug company, Ms. Elion felt that her lack of a doctorate was a disadvantage, so she began a Ph.D. program at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. She took courses at night, commuting an hour and a half each way. But she eventually had to quit because she was told she would have to attend school full time to get a Ph.D., and she could not afford to give up her job.
        When she gave her first scientific paper at a major meeting, she said she got into an argument with a distinguished scientist and stood her ground because ''I knew I was right.''
        Ms. Elion never married. She was once engaged, but her fiance died of a heart infection. Ms. Elion said she would not have advanced in her career if she had chosen to marry and have children because women were not encouraged then to work while their children were young.
      