
        Bethel Leslie, a lifelong presence onstage and on television whose final Broadway performance earned her a Tony nomination, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 70.
        The cause was cancer, said Leslie McCullough Jeffries, her daughter.
        The daughter of a lawyer and a socialite, Ms. Leslie was a 15-year-old student at the Brearley School on the Upper East Side when she was discovered by the producer George Abbott and cast as the girl next door in the 1944 Broadway production of ''Snafu,'' a comedy.
        The role began Ms. Leslie's career, which included appearances in 10 Broadway plays before she was 25 and which had her acting alongside the likes of Fredric March (''Years Ago,'' in 1946), Sam Wanamaker (''Goodbye, My Fancy'' in 1948) and Helen Hayes (''The Wisteria Trees,'' in 1950).
        Her breakthrough came in 1955, in ''Inherit the Wind,'' in which she played the conflicted daughter of a Bible-wielding reverend. The part earned Ms. Leslie strong reviews, and she soon headed to Hollywood. There she found steady work in television, parlaying her dark good looks into roles on shows like ''Gunsmoke,'' ''Perry Mason'' and ''The Fugitive.''
        A 1965 press biography listed some of her character roles as ''a cheating wife, a husband-framing mistress'' and ''the wife of a confessed murderer.''
        Ms. Leslie made her film debut in 1964 in ''Captain Newman, M.D.,'' as the wife of a traumatized Air Force pilot, played by Robert Duvall.
        By 1965 she had returned to New York and to the theater, though appearances on soap operas helped support that passion. As a side pursuit Ms. Leslie began to write, eventually becoming a head writer for the daytime drama ''The Secret Storm.''
        It was not until 1986, however, that she scored her biggest triumph, appearing as the morphine-addicted mother in Eugene O'Neill's ''Long Day's Journey into Night,'' a performance that Frank Rich of The New York Times called ''exceptionally beautiful.'' Her work earned her a Tony nomination.
        In recent years she appeared Off Broadway in productions with the Signature Theater Company and most recently with the Women's Project, where she won praise this spring for her work in Joan Vail Thorne's play ''Exact Center of the Universe.''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York, Ms. Leslie is survived by a brother, Warren Leslie, also of New York, and two grandchildren.
      