
        Regina Shoolman Slatkin, a dealer in old master drawings and a writer and specialist on the 18th-century French painter Francois Boucher, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and had homes in Manhattan, Essex, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Born in what was Austria-Hungary and reared in Quebec, Mrs. Slatkin graduated from McGill University. She went to Paris on a French government fellowship to study at the Sorbonne and the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, and became interested in French art. She also studied at the University of Chicago.
        When she returned to Canada she worked as a journalist on The Montreal Star and for the Jewish Welfare Board. She also published poetry and collaborated with the ethnologist Marius Barbeau on a government-sponsored project, later made into a book, to collect and translate the folk songs of Quebec.
        In 1936 she married Charles E. Slatkin, a New York schoolteacher, and moved to Manhattan. Mr. Slatkin worked as a liaison between the public schools and the city museums from an office at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mrs. Slatkin worked as an editor and for several years as executive director of the Iranian Institute of Art and Archaeology.
        In 1959 the couple opened a gallery in their apartment on East 92nd Street that specialized in old master drawings and Impressionist painting and sculpture. Their exhibitions were often accompanied by scholarly publications, like the 1962 show of Rodin's sculptures and watercolors whose catalog included essays by Leo Steinberg and Albert Elsen.
        Mrs. Slatkin, who published numerous articles on Boucher in Burlington magazine and other journals, was instrumental in organizing the National Gallery of Art's 1974 exhibition of Boucher drawings, the first major show of its kind in North America, for which she wrote the catalog introduction and entries. With her husband she wrote ''The Enjoyment of Art in America'' (1947) and ''Six Centuries of French Master Drawings in America'' (1950). Her last article, ''A Note on a Boucher Drawing,'' was written and published in Master Drawings magazine in 1996.
        After her husband's death in 1977 Mrs. Slatkin became interested in the decorative arts, building a collection of early-American glass that she donated to the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. She also donated 19th- and 20th-century prints.
        Mrs. Slatkin is survived by two daughters, Carole Slatkin of Plattsburgh and Laura Slatkin of Chicago.
      