
        Georgia Hofmann, an owner and breeder of thoroughbred racehorses, including the Triple Tiara winner Sky Beauty, died Sunday at her home in Bal Harbour, Fla. She was 91.
        The cause was complications from leukemia, which was diagnosed several months ago, said Lawrence G. Foster, a family spokesman.
        Mrs. Hofmann learned to ride horses bareback and said that was when her love for them began. In 1962, she bought her first racehorse, a filly named Calabrea, who won her first race and paid $72 to win.
        ''That horse was the real reason I am in the racing business today,'' she said years later. She did most of her own buying and selling, and bred or owned such outstanding horses as Gold Beauty, named the champion sprinter in 1982, Louis Quatorze, winner of the 1996 Preakness, Gold Stage, Maplejinsky, Dayjur, Royal Indy and Bankers Gold.
        But the pride and prize of the lot was Sky Beauty, a daughter of the European champion Blushing Groom and a granddaughter of Nijinsky II. She came into prominence in 1992, when she won five starts. And, in 1993, she was only the eighth filly to win the Triple Tiara, the equivalent of the Triple Crown for fillies.
        Mrs. Hofmann was the widow of Philip B. Hofmann, a retired chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the health care products company. Mr. Hofmann's lifelong interest in horses centered on jumpers, show horses and coach-and-four competitions. He left the thoroughbred racing to his wife, and when at the racetrack he often said: ''I'm just here to watch. She's the expert.''
        Mrs. Hofmann's first marriage, to Fred R. Fehlhaber, ended in divorce.
        Georgia Hofmann was born Georgia Ellis on a farm near Montgomery, Ala. She became a fashion model in New York and had a minor part in a musical production staged by Florenz Ziegfeld. But she seemed to have a sixth sense about a racehorse's breeding and racing potential. She spent long hours studying books and reports on bloodlines.
        Mrs. Hofmann, who owned Wycombe House Stud, a 218-acre horse farm in Ocala, Fla., earned more than $12 million through the sale of 22 horses, including Sky Beauty.
        Although she was ill, Mrs. Hofmann attended the Breeders' Cup races at Gulfstream Park in Florida on Nov. 6. The next day, she flew to Lexington, Ky., to preside over the sale of the last of her racehorses.
        She is survived by a sister, Elizabeth St. Almond of Jacksonville, Fla.; two stepdaughters, Judy Hofmann Richter of Bedford, N.Y., and Carol Hofmann Thompson of Colts Neck, N.J.; a stepson, Robert F. Fehlhaber of Fort Lauderdale, Fla; and two stepdaughters, Chris Fehlhaber McGuire of Vero Beach, Fla., and Julie Fehlhaber Flavell of Fort Lauderdale.
        Mrs. Hofmann, who never had children, often referred to her horses as ''my babies.''
      