
        Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris. She was 98.
        Mrs. Casadesus, whose name was originally Gaby L'Hote, was born in Marseilles in August 1901. She entered the Paris Conservatoire when she was 12, and became a student of Marguerite Long and Louis Diemer. She graduated from the Conservatoire with first prize in piano when she was 16 and soon established herself with performances of the piano works of Faure, Ravel and Milhaud, which she studied with the composers' guidance.
        Her recitals also reached further back into the French keyboard literature to include music of Rameau, Couperin and Chopin. She was known as an elegant Mozart interpreter, and in 1923 she was awarded the Prix Pages, recognizing the achievement of female pianists in France.
        When she was still at the Conservatoire she met Robert Casadesus, another student of Diemer, two years her senior. The two began giving performances of duo piano works together, and they married in 1921. Robert Casadesus wrote several works for the duo, including Six Pieces (1938), and a Concerto for Two Pianos, which they first performed in Warsaw in 1934, and with the New York Philharmonic in 1950.
        In the 1960's their son Jean Michel Casadesus sometimes joined them for performances of the Bach Triple Concerto and Robert Casadesus's Concerto for Three Pianos. Jean Michel Casadesus died in an automobile accident in January 1972; Robert Casadesus died that September. Mrs. Casadesus is survived by a daughter, Therese Casadesus Rawson of Berwyn, Pa., and another son, Guy Casadesus of Toulon, France, as well as five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        During World War II the Casadesus family settled in Princeton but returned to France in 1946. Both were influential teachers at the American Conservatory at Fontainebleau, France. Mrs. Casadesus also gave regular master classes at the Salzburg Mozarteum and at several French and American universities. She was the author of two books, ''Ma Technique Quotidienne'' (''My Daily Technique,'' written with Philip Lasser, one of her students) and ''Mes Noces Musicales'' (''My Musical Wedding,'' written with J. Muller).
        After her husband's death she helped found an annual summer festival in Lille, France, with her nephew, the conductor Jean-Claude Casadesus, and in 1975 she started the Robert Casadesus International Piano Competition, in Cleveland. She also devoted herself to performing and publishing her husband's compositions.
      