
        Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.
        She died of cancer, said Aldo Mancusi, curator of the Caruso Museum in Brooklyn.
        Only hours after his daughter's birth on Dec. 18, 1919, at the Knickerbocker Hotel just a stone's throw from the old Metropolitan Opera House in New York, Caruso, then the most famous operatic tenor in the world, exuberantly tossed the girl into the air, peered into her mouth and announced, ''Ah, she has the vocal cords, just like her daddy!''
        A year and a half later, Caruso was dead at 48 -- a loss that nourished a popular fantasy that his child would also have an extraordinary voice.
        At age 7, when she and her mother returned to New York from a vacation in Europe, a New York newspaper ran the headline ''Gloria Caruso, Here With a Voice'' and pronounced her ''a potential opera star of the first magnitude.''
        The next year she made her first record. At 11, she made her first public appearance, delivering a radio address on behalf of a charity headed by President Herbert Hoover. Later that year she made a test recording for RCA Victor, and John McCormack, another renowned tenor, gave her singing lessons and announced that she had promise.
        The press had an immense appetite for even the slightest tidbits of news about the great Caruso's daughter. But it gradually became apparent that she did not have the voice to follow her father.
        In 1942, Ms. Murray told a reporter that she was studying art at the Art Students League in New York and that she had come to prefer the visual arts to music. ''I've always been torn between art and music,'' she said. ''Daddy drew and sculptured as a hobby. And Mommy draws. Art is as much in the family as singing.''
        In marrying Caruso, her mother, an American named Dorothy Benjamin, created a tumult in 1918. Her father, Park Benjamin, a wealthy patent lawyer and New York society figure, fiercely opposed the match between his daughter, then 25, to Caruso, who was 45. After the couple eloped, Park Benjamin disowned her. When he died in 1925, he left her $1 from his substantial estate.
        In 1943, Gloria Caruso married Ensign Michael Hunt Murray, who had left Harvard to become a naval aviator in World War II. The couple had two sons but later divorced.
        Ms. Murray set up a studio in New York City where she painted both portraits and landscapes. Later she lived in Miami and, for the last 10 years, in Jacksonville.
        Andrew Farkas, co-author with Enrico Caruso Jr. of ''Enrico Caruso: My Father and My Family'' (Amadeus Press, 1990), said that Ms. Murray's paintings were ''of good quality, although she sold very few.''
        ''She became rather reclusive,'' Mr. Farkas said, adding, ''She had been answering questions about her father for a long time.'' Eric D. Murray, one of Ms. Murray's sons, said his mother had become occupied with managing the family estate after her mother died in 1957.
        Matters were complicated because Caruso had left no will. In 1928, a court in Trenton had ruled that Gloria Caruso was entitled to two-thirds of the royalties on her father's phonograph records, sold by the Victor Talking Machine Company.
        Gloria Caruso attended Miss Hewitt's Classes in New York City, the Ozanne School in Paris, the Bishop School in La Jolla, Calif., and Miss Nixon's School in Florence, Italy.
        In addition to her son Eric, of Maryland, she is survived by her other son, Colin D. Murray of Jacksonville.
        Mr. Farkas wrote that Enrico Caruso had four children from a relationship with Ada Giacchetti, a soprano who had left her husband to live with the tenor before his marriage to Miss Benjamin. Only one, Enrico Caruso Jr., sought a career as a singer. All are deceased.
      