
        Jill Craigie, a devoted socialist and feminist who became one of Britain's first successful female film directors and whose half-century marriage to the Labor Party leader Michael Foot put her at the heart of the country's leftist politics, died on Monday in London. She was 85.
        Ms. Craigie first made her mark in documentary filmmaking with ''Out of Chaos,'' a 1943 film about modern art; ''The Way We Live,'' a 1946 study of the effects of the German blitzkrieg on Plymouth, and ''Blue Scar,'' a 1948 look at life in an impoverished Welsh mining village. It was while making her film in Plymouth that she met Mr. Foot, then a candidate for Parliament. She interviewed him and a relationship began.
        Ms. Craigie was born in Derbyshire to a Scottish father and a Russian emigre mother and had, by her own estimation, a wretched childhood. Her parents divorced when she was an infant. Her father was killed in World War I and her mother lived mostly abroad.
        ''I used to spend most of my holidays at boarding school,'' she once said. ''I went to a dozen different boarding schools over the years and never learned anything. I was one of the rootless people. I had a very lonely childhood indeed. I turned to writing because I was lonely.''
        After school, she moved to London and began writing an advice column and horoscopes for a women's magazine called Betty's Paper. She quickly found her way into artistic and literary circles. When she was 19, she married a sculptor, Claude Begbie-Clench, and they had a daughter, Julie. The marriage was short-lived.
        Soon after, she married Jeffrey Dell, a scriptwriter for the movie producer Alexander Korda, and they wrote a play called ''The Judge,'' which was staged in London in 1938. This marriage was also short-lived, but Ms. Craigie was able to use the connections she made through Mr. Dell to get work in the British film industry, first making sports films and later turning to feature-length documentaries.
        During these years, Ms. Craigie was romantically linked to many prominent artists and writers.
        Mr. Foot and Ms. Craigie did not marry for almost two years after their meeting in Plymouth, though they lived together for much of that time. They finally married in 1949, she once said, to assuage the concerns of Mr. Foot's family.
        Though many at the time doubted that Ms. Craigie's third marriage would last longer than the first two, theirs turned out to be a close and loving relationship, friends said.
        She is survived by her husband and daughter.
        Ms. Craigie's work as a filmmaker and writer dwindled after her third marriage, though she did write the screenplay for ''The Million Pound Note,'' renamed ''Man With a Million,'' a 1953 film starring Gregory Peck that was filmed in London.
        In 1952, she wrote and produced a BBC radio documentary about the British suffragist movement, a subject that was near to her heart since a chance meeting in 1940 with a group of aging suffragists at a memorial service for one of their members.
        For the last decades of her life, Ms. Craigie was said to be at work on a  history of the movement, left unfinished at her death.
        In 1967, she made a television documentary called ''Who Are the Vandals?'' that was critical of housing developers. In 1995, she made ''Two Hours From London,'' a documentary about the former Yugoslavia.
        As Mr. Foot's political career prospered, Ms. Craigie became known as one of his confidantes as well as the hostess for many Labor Party gatherings at the couple's home. When Mr. Foot became chief of the Labor Party in 1980, beginning a three-year leadership that ended with a crushing defeat for the party in 1983, a few asserted that he was being pushed by an ambitious wife. Ms. Craigie demurred.
        ''He would be in exactly the same position he is in today had he not been married to me, except he wouldn't have had such a nice house,'' she said.
      