
        Felicia Lamport, a poet and satirist who took delight in skewering the high and mighty with verse, quips, puns and parodies, most of them first appearing in a column in The Boston Globe called Muse of the Week in Review, died on Thursday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 83.
        Ms. Lamport's column appeared in The Globe since 1981 but her work also appeared in The New Yorker, The Atlantic Monthly, Harper's and other publications.
        Her first collection of poetry, ''Mink on Weekdays (Ermine on Sunday)'' (1950), became a best seller and was followed by other collections with titles like ''Scrap Irony'' (1961), ''Cultural Slag'' (1966) and ''Political Plumlines'' (1984).
        She was born in New York and graduated from Vassar College in 1937, after which she worked as a reporter and wrote dialogue for MGM films.
        She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Kaplan, a retired justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; a son, James Kaplan of Northampton, Mass., a daughter, Nancy Mansbach of Newton, Mass.,  and four grandchildren.
        She was particularly remembered for a work called ''The Love Song of R. Milhous Nixon,'' in which she borrowed from T. S. Eliot to lampoon President Nixon at the height of the Watergate scandal in 1973. It began:
        Let us go then, in my plane,
        For a weekend of repose in Key Biscayne;
        When the view beneath our eyes appears unstable
        Let us banish all incipient defeats
        In one of my retreats.
        Apart from political jabs, Ms. Lamport also turned her attention to the human comedy, with verse like:
        The after-effects of a mother's neglects
        May spoil her boy's orientation to sex,
        But the converse is worse: if she overprotects,
        The pattern of Oedipus wrecks. In April William Safire praised Ms. Lamport in The New York Times Magazine as ''the leading muse of the Deprefixers,'' which he defined as poets who achieve effects by dropping prefixes, for lines like ''Men often pursue in suitable style/ The imical girl with the scrutable smile.''
      