
        Nilde Iotti, an early leader of the Italian Communist Party and the first woman to become president of the lower house of Parliament, died Friday night of heart failure after a long illness, the news agency ANSA reported. She was 79.
        Ms. Iotti, who served as a Partisan during World War II, was first elected to office in 1946, winning a seat in the constitutional assembly. At age 26, she took part in the ''Committee of the 75,'' which wrote a first draft of Italy's postwar constitution.
        From 1979 until 1992, she served as Italy's president of the lower house of Parliament, a role similar to that of the speaker of the house in the United States. It made her No. 2 in line to succeed the president.
        In Parliament, her regal manner earned her the nicknames, ''Czarina'' and ''The Red Queen.'' She described herself differently, saying, ''I'm just a woman who has a difficult job and tries to do it with tact.''
        The daughter of a railway worker, Ms. Iotti was born in Reggio Emilia, the heart of Italy's ''red belt'' and studied literature at the Catholic University of Milan. She moved to Rome after the war, where she met and fell in love with Palmiro Togliatti, Italy's Communist Party leader.
        Mr. Togliatti was married, and divorce was then illegal in Italy. The couple adopted a daughter in 1950, the sister of a worker killed by police during a strike in Modena. The couple stayed together until Mr. Togliatti's death in 1964.
        Viewed throughout her life as a staunch member of the Communist Party's central committee, Ms. Iotti changed along with many in her party after the collapse of the Berlin Wall. She was one of the first party officials to endorse the proposal to rid the party of its hammer and sickle and rename themselves ''Democrats of the Left.''
        Ms. Iotti, who campaigned to legalize divorce and abortion in Italy, resigned from Parliament last month, citing ill health.
        Her coffin will be laid in state in the Italian Parliament and she will receive a state funeral on Monday. She is survived by her daughter, Marisa Malagoli Togliatti.
      