
        Rose E. Bird, who became the first woman on California's Supreme Court and whose resolute opposition to the death penalty later led voters to remove her as chief justice, died of complications from breast cancer on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 63.
        Almost from the moment she was appointed to head the state's highest court by Gov. Jerry Brown in 1977, Ms. Bird, a pioneering liberal lawyer who had never been a judge, became one of the most controversial figures in California politics. She led a liberal majority that strengthened environmental laws and consumer rights. But in 1986, voters angry at her opposition to the death penalty removed her and two other Brown-appointed justices by refusing to extend their terms. They were the first such removals in California history.
        Ms. Bird, who came of professional age at a time when major law firms still resisted hiring women, held a succession of path-breaking jobs. She was the first woman hired by the Santa Clara County public defender's office in Northern California, and she became the first woman to hold a cabinet-level post in state government when Mr. Brown named her his secretary of agriculture in 1975. Many of her detractors were forced to acknowledge her administrative skills, while even her admirers among judges and lawyers conceded the brittleness that made her a lighting rod for criticism.
        Judge Stephen Reinhardt of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, who had known her for years, said Ms. Bird had ''a total passion for, and commitment to, justice.''
        ''In some ways, she was just too good to be a judge, he said. ''She had a total passion and commitment, and that's not always the best way to function and get along in this world, in a political environment. From the day she got to the Supreme Court, she never really had a chance.''
        After the death penalty was reinstated in California in the late 1970's, Judge Bird never upheld a death sentence, voting to vacate such sentences 61 times. She survived repeated efforts to recall her, but was ousted after Governor George Deukmejian, a Republican, led an aggressive campaign against her.
        To this day, Ms. Bird's name remains a kind of reflexive shorthand in California for ''soft-on-crime liberal.'' In last year's election, the unsuccessful Republican candidate for governor, State Attorney General Dan Lungren, sought to tar his Democratic opponent, Lt. Gov. Gray Davis, by association, because Mr. Davis had been Governor Brown's chief of staff at the time of Ms. Bird's appointment.
        ''I appreciate that some people within our state are impatient, impatient to see executions,'' Ms. Bird said after her removal. ''I don't think anybody in this state will sit easy if, in fact, this becomes a court that ensures nothing but executions to appease the overweening and insatiable attitude of ambitious politicians.''
        Today, in part because of long-running arguments over capital punishment, California has the largest death row in the nation, with more than 500 inmates sentenced to die. But virtually the entire state political establishment, Democratic as well as Republican, now favors the death penalty, and the pace of executions is widely expected to increase.
        Rose Elizabeth Bird was born on Nov. 2, 1936, in Tucson, the youngest of three children whose parents ran a chicken farm. Her parents separated in 1941, and her father died soon after. Ms. Bird's widowed mother, Anne, moved the family to New York, her home state.
        Young Rose was a standout scholar in high school, earning a scholarship to Long Island University, where she majored in English in preparation for a career in journalism. She later enrolled as a graduate student in political science at the University of California at Berkeley, but an internship in the State Legislature in Sacramento persuaded her to switch to law school, because lawyers seemed to have the most influence on public policy.
        After working as a public defender and teaching a seminar in criminal defense at Stanford University's law school, Ms. Bird became a volunteer in Mr. Brown's 1974 campaign for governor, serving as his frequent chauffeur on his trips to her area and later as a trusted adviser on his transition team. On taking office, Mr. Brown broke precedent by naming Ms. Bird secretary of agriculture, a post traditionally held by a grower. Ms. Bird emphasized consumer protection and worker health and safety, moving to ban the use of a short-handled hoe that forced farm laborers to spend hours stooped in the fields. She also drafted a landmark farm labor bill guaranteeing workers' rights to hold secret-ballot union elections and shepherded it through the legislature.
        The controversy she generated in the agriculture post was nothing compared to the criticism that greeted her nomination as chief justice in 1977. Police groups and politicians around the state opposed her on the grounds that she would favor defendants, and Cardinal Roger M. Mahony of Los Angeles, then a bishop and head of the state Agricultural Relations Board, questioned her ''emotional stability'' and her ''vindictive approach to dealing with all persons under her authority.''
        Just a year later, conservatives outraged by her decisions on school busing, taxes and other issues began a campaign to remove her. Under California law, supreme court justices appointed by the governor must be approved by the electorate in the next gubernatorial election, and periodically thereafter.
        She survived the opposition that year. But on the morning of election day, The Los Angeles Times published an article, citing anonymous sources, suggesting that the Supreme Court had deliberately delayed issuing a split decision overturning a law mandating prison sentences for those convicted of using a gun in certain crimes, so as not to hurt Judge Bird's chances at the polls.
        That led to public hearings by the state Commission on Judicial Performance, which portrayed the court as riven by personal conflicts and political infighting. No formal charges of misconduct were brought against any justice, but the controversy generated by the investigation lingered on.
        After her ouster in 1986, Ms. Bird, who never married, retreated into semi-seclusion. She cared for her aged mother in Palo Alto and surfaced occasionally as a television commentator or a public speaker, but dropped even some old friends and associates. She had battled breast cancer intermittently since 1976. Her mother died in 1991, and she is survived by two brothers, Philip, of Hawaii, and Jack, of Arizona.
        ''If you have never experienced life under a microscope, you need to understand that those who live a public life are no longer seen as real persons -- human beings,'' Ms. Bird wrote in a 1996 newspaper column. ''Rather, they are objects to be examined, manipulated, ridiculed and sometimes even hated.''
      