
        Margaret A. Greenfield, a founder and officer of the Independent Journalism Foundation and a dealer in art, antiques and real estate, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 74.
        She had cancer, said her husband, James L. Greenfield.
        Beginning in the 1950's, Mrs. Greenfield was an art and antiques dealer in London, Washington and finally Manhattan, where for about the last 25 years she owned and ran an antiques shop, Marco Polo, on Madison Avenue between 84th and 85th Streets. It closed about a year ago.
        She also renovated and resold brownstones on the Upper East Side.
        Mrs. Greenfield was active in the Independent Journalism Foundation from its inception in 1991. The foundation, based in Manhattan, teaches citizens of former Communist countries in Central and Eastern Europe about working as journalists in newly democratic societies.
        She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
        Mrs. Greenfield created and furnished the foundation's four centers in Eastern European capitals -- in Prague, Bratislava, Bucharest and Budapest.
        Margaret Ann Schwertley Greenfield was born in Gooding, Idaho. She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Idaho and worked as a stewardess for United Airlines and then for Pan American World Airways.
        She met Mr. Greenfield when she was based in Hong Kong in the early 1950's, while she was Pan Am's first stewardess based in the Far East. They were married in 1954.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Anne Schwertley of Manhattan and Jane Schwertley of Gainesville, Fla.
      