
        Virginia Foster Durr, a well-born civil rights campaigner who was on hand when Rosa Parks was bailed out of jail where she was being held for not giving up her seat on a bus to a white man in 1955, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Carlisle, Pa. She was 95.
        Mrs. Durr and her husband, Clifford, a lawyer, were New Deal veterans who were in the thick of the civil rights movement in their native Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's.
        President Clinton said, in a statement: ''A white woman, born to privilege in the Deep South, Mrs. Durr refused to turn a blind eye to racism and intolerance in our society. Her courage and steely conviction in the earliest days of the civil rights movement helped to change this nation forever.''
        In 1955 Mrs. Durr and her husband helped a black civil rights leader, E. D. Nixon, bail Mrs. Parks, a black seamstress active in the N.A.A.C.P., out of jail in Montgomery, Ala., said Dr. Patricia Sullivan, a historian and fellow at the W. E. B. Du Bois Institute of Afro-American Research at Harvard University.
        Mrs. Parks's action touched off the Montgomery bus boycott by blacks, which helped spur the civil rights movement and brought the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to prominence.
        Mrs. Parks said in a letter to the Durr family: ''I will miss you, old soldier, but the rich legacy you have passed to your children, grandchildren and great-grands lives on. We still have a long ways to go, but you, my friend, have made it easier for all of us.''
        A native of Birmingham, Ala., Virginia Foster was reared there in the traditions of the Old South. She was a debutante, was prominent in the local Junior League and attended Wellesley College.
        She moved to Washington in the 1930's, when Mr. Durr was on the staff of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. In the Washington of the 1930's, many New Deal Young Turks clustered around the couple. Her personal liberalism found expression in those years, and she was a founding member of the interracial Southern Conference for Human Welfare, which opposed segregation.
        Mrs. Durr also helped Eleanor Roosevelt generate support for legislation to end the poll tax, which helped prevent many Southerners from voting. In 1948 she was an unsuccessful candidate of Henry A. Wallace's Progressive Party for the Senate from Virginia.
        Three years later the Durrs moved to Montgomery, where they supported the bus boycott and other civil rights activities. In 1954 she was summoned before the Senate's Internal Security Subcommittee after being accused of harboring Communist sympathies. She testified that she did not belong to the Communist Party and had not attended any party meetings.
        As Rosellen Brown, a novelist, has put it, ''While the majority of Alabamians considered Virginia and Clifford Durr traitors, not heroes, they represented to many of us the best of the white South, its native strength: they were sensible, outspoken, committed and only accidentally heroic.''
        Mrs. Durr won applause for her autobiography, ''Outside the Magic Circle'' (University of Alabama, 1985)'' edited by Hollinger F. Barnard. Dr. Sullivan is also editing a  book of Mrs. Durr's letters.
        The Durrs were married in 1926. Mr. Durr died in 1975.
        Mrs. Durr is survived by four daughters, Ann Durr Lyon of Harrisburg, Pa., Lucy Durr Hackney of Philadelphia, Virginia Foster Durr of Sweden, Me., and Lulah Durr Colan of Milwaukee; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      