
        Betty Bryant, who had such a satisfying childhood career in the backwaters of show business that she never bothered to try to top herself in the Broadway mainstream, died on Jan. 15 at her home in Park Ridge, Ill.
        She was 76 and was recalled as the third generation of a family of showboat performers who brought corn  pone and culture to riverside mid-America.
        If her life wasn't actually written by Edna Ferber or set to music by Jerome Kern, it was surely because Miss Bryant was only 4 when Ferber's novel ''Show Boat'' came out in 1926, two years before Kern and Oscar Hammerstein 2d translated it to the Broadway stage.
        By then Miss Bryant was an experienced on-board performer, one who had made her acting debut at the age of 6 weeks, stoically (she didn't cry) portraying the slave girl Eliza's baby in the dash across the ice in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin.''
        If ever an actress was at home in the theater it was she.
        The family showboat was both her home and her stage, and for 20 years, until World War II helped bring the showboat era to an end, she spent her springs, summers and falls going from town to town along the Ohio River and its tributaries, sometimes stopping for several weeks in bigger river cities like Pittsburgh or Cincinnati.
        During the off-season, with the boat tied up in West Virginia, the family would visit New York or Chicago, sometimes staging variety acts, sometimes just taking in the theatrical sights.
        With her mother as her tutor, Miss Bryant managed to get her high school diploma from a cooperating school that monitored her progress.
        Based on Miss Bryant's 1994 book ''Here Comes the Showboat'' (University Press of Kentucky), hers was an idyllic life and one she was certainly born to.
        To say that show business was in her blood would be something of an understatement. Her grandfather, Sam Bryant, a onetime gardener at Buckingham Palace, had no known theatrical inclinations until he fell in love with a young Gilbert and Sullivan actress named Violet Chapman, who had inclinations enough for both of them.
        After the couple married and came to the United States in 1884, it didn't take many years of nagging before Lady Violet, as she preferred to be known, had persuaded her husband to seek thespian adventure, initially, as it turned out, in a horse-drawn traveling medicine show in which Dr. Sam, as he was known, would hawk a cure-all mixture of gasoline and red pepper on the first night in a town, then stage a tent show on the second.
        The couple's children, Billy and Florence, were part of the dodge from the beginning and by the time the family graduated to vaudeville a few years later, they had become the Four Bryants.
        A chance summer booking on a turn-of-the-century Mississippi River showboat gave them the river bug. Within a few years, Dr. Sam and Captain Billy, as his son was soon known, had acquired first the Princess and then, in 1918, Bryant's New Showboat.
        By then, Captain Billy had married the floating troupe's piano and calliope player, Josephine Costello, who gave birth to Betty four years later.
        From her start in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin,'' Miss Bryant swiftly advanced to other roles and vaudeville turns, including impressions of George M. Cohan and Eddie Cantor.
        As the only member of her generation among the now six Bryants (although Aunt Florence was increasingly an absentee actress), she played boys as often as girls, but regardless of the sex, she soon learned, her forlorn character was sure to die before the final curtain.
        That's because the Bryant plays tended to be heavy, heart-rending  melodramas, which never failed to delight their small-town audiences.
        Captain Billy did stage an abridged version of ''Hamlet'' once,  but after he got a look at the dazed audience on its way out, he quickly reverted to more familiar fare, replacing it with ''Ten Nights in a Barroom,'' a sure audience pleaser, partly, no doubt, because Miss Bryant died so convincingly.
        By the time she graduated to grown-up roles, Miss Bryant had mastered the psychological subtleties of the showboat method of melodrama.
        As she wrote in her book, ''A dependable leading lady must be able to run, duck, fall, get up, fall again, crawl over a bed and under a dresser, scream, swing by a rope, deliver an uppercut, struggle and kick and still have enough breath left to say, 'If this is aristocracy, thank God I'm a country girl.' ''
        At 20 she married a fellow showboat actor, Jat Herod, a jazz violinist who joined the Army and was soon entertaining troops, as he and his wife continued to do after the war.
        She is survived by two daughters, JoAleene Miranda of Des Plaines, Ill., and Mary Perry of Park Ridge, and three grandchildren.
        After their divorce in 1962, Miss Bryant, who never tried to win acting jobs in New York or Hollywood, settled in Park Ridge, where she directed amateur theatrical productions and frequently gave lectures on what it was like to grow up on a showboat.
      