
        Indrani, a distinguished dancer who familiarized Americans with several styles of India's classical dance as a performer and teacher, died on Friday in Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Sukanya Wicks, said.
        Indrani was an artist of international repute and often appeared before heads of state in her native India and abroad. But she also became a highly respected figure in the dance world of New York after her debut there in 1960. The hallmark of her dancing, a blend of dramatic vibrancy and technical refinement, carried over to her teaching at American colleges and festivals.
        Although she had a home in New Delhi until recently, she spent most of the last two decades in the United States, where she toured extensively. In 1961, Indrani was the first dancer presented on a national tour by the Asia Society. She had been on the faculty of the Juilliard School since 1976.
        ''Indrani was an exquisite dancer, a great teacher and a true rasika, in the largest spirit of that word, meaning a lover of the arts,'' Rachel Cooper of the Asia Society said yesterday. Ms. Cooper, associate director of the society's performing arts and public programs, also praised Indrani's role as a producer of concerts in New York by younger Indian dancers. She said the society had planned to give Indrani a lifetime achievement award. ''The event will now be a memorial as well,'' Ms. Cooper said.
        Unlike many Indian dancers of her generation, Indrani did not specialize in a single school of classical dance but studied with leading gurus in India to master the contrasting styles of Bharata Natyam, Kuchipudi, Mohini Attam and Orissi.
        In the 1950's, Indrani was the first professional dancer to perform Orissi onstage; Orissi, then a neglected dance form, was inspired by temple sculpture in the state of Orissa, in eastern India. Indrani was instrumental in the revival of Orissi, introducing it to audiences in India by touring widely there and doing the same abroad when she performed as a soloist or with her ensemble of musicians and dancers.
        In championing rarely seen or forgotten classical dance forms, Indrani followed naturally in the footsteps of her mother, Ragini Devi, an American-born dancer who was internationally known for her leading role in the revival of classical dance in India in the 1930's.
        As Esther Sherman in Petoskey, Mich., the future Ragini Devi was already in love with Indian dance when she met Ramlal Bajpai in Minneapolis. After she married Bajpai, an Indian scientist and activist for Indian independence, she traveled to India to study dance in 1930. Their daughter, Indrani, was born that year in Madras. In her book ''Dance Dialects of India,'' Ragini Devi described how she would take the infant Indrani on her own visits to gurus. As a dancer, Indrani was her  ''alter ego,'' Ragini Devi wrote. ''Her dance career is a continuation of mine.''
        Ragini Devi, who died in 1982, made her last stage appearance at a memorable concert in 1979 at New York University. She was joined by Sukanya, Indrani's daughter and also a dancer, as well as Indrani. The vivacity of all three generations came into play.
        Indrani's playfulness and gaiety at that performance were typical of her vivid personality. In the dramatic Kuchipudi solos, Indrani's quick shifts in characterization were always subtle and deep.
        Having started at age 5 in her mother's company, she was steeped in the content of classical dance. As a professional, she began with Bharata Natyam, where she could display the rhythmic complexity of her footwork. But mime within this style and in others allowed her to exhibit her brilliant dramatic gifts.
        The Indian Government sponsored Indrani's tours. Her warmth and artistry, as well as the beauty of her costumes and presentations, made her a perfect choice. In 1961 she performed for President John F. Kennedy and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru during Nehru's official visit to Washington. Indrani received the Indian Government's national award, Padma Shri, and the Sangeet Natak Akadami Award in the performing arts.
        Indrani married Habib Rahman, who was named India's chief architect and who died in 1995. In addition to her daughter, of Orr's Island, Me., she is survived by her son, Ram Rahman, of New Delhi, and two grandsons, Wardreath Wicks of Orr's Island, and Habib Wicks of New York City.
      