
        Pearl Bernstein Max, who played a central role in melding the New York City municipal colleges into today's City University of New York, died Thursday in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 94.
        In 1938, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed Mrs. Max -- known as Pearl Bernstein for much of her career -- as the first administrative director of New York City's Board of Higher Education. That job, the chief administrator, was a predecessor of the office of Chancellor in the current system.
        Mrs. Max helped lay much of the groundwork for fitting City, Hunter, Brooklyn and Queens Colleges into CUNY, as it came into being in 1961. She drafted the first master plan and the financing formula for the system and served as liaison to its Administrative Council of College Presidents.
        She was the founding coordinator of CUNY's Office of Institutional Research in 1967. From there, she initiated pioneering studies of teacher education, admissions procedures and other issues of vital importance to the growing university.
        Thus, Mrs. Max was one of the principal shapers of CUNY, the nation's largest municipal university system. It now comprises 11 senior colleges, 6 community colleges, a graduate division, a law school, a medical school and an affiliated school of medicine. It has nearly 200,000 students working toward degrees and 155,000 adult and continuing education students throughout the five boroughs.
        Mrs. Max also served as secretary and administrative head of the New York City Employees Retirement System, one of the country's largest pension funds. She taught courses on state and local government at Barnard College, and retired from CUNY in 1969.
        A native of Manhattan, she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Barnard in 1925 and pursued postgraduate studies at Columbia University and Fordham Law School. She joined the League of Women Voters of New York City in 1926 as its municipal representative and the group's first paid executive.
        The league monitored the policies and procedures of the city's Board of Estimates and Apportionment. Her reputation for clear and evenhanded analyses drew the attention of Mayor La Guardia, who named her secretary of the board in 1934.
        She was the first woman in that post, which she held until the Mayor moved her to the Board of Higher Education. Over the years she served as an officer of the Women's Club of New York, Ethical Culture Schools, Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, New York Metropolitan Council and American Society of Public Administrators, among other organizations.
        Her husband, Dr. Louis W. Max, died four years ago after 66 years of marriage. Mrs. Max is survived by a daughter, Dr. Claire Max of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Dr. Betty Bernstein of Manhattan and Hilda Morris of Huntington, N.Y.; two brothers, Ira Bernstein of Fairfield, Conn., and Seymour Bernstein of Manhattan, and one grandson.
      