
        Betty Roche, a singer who performed with Duke Ellington in the 1940's and 50's and was noted for her strong, dramatic delivery of blues material, died on Feb. 16 at the Mainland Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Pleasantville, N.J. She  was 81.
        ''She had a soul inflection in a bop state of intrigue,'' Ellington wrote about Ms. Roche in his oblique style of praise, ''and every word was understandable despite the sophisticated hip and jive connotations.''
        Born Mary Elizabeth Roche (pronounced ro-SHAY) in Wilmington, Del., she began her career by winning an amateur contest at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. In 1941 she sang with the Savoy Sultans.
        Ms. Roche joined Ellington in 1943, replacing Ivie Anderson just before Ellington's first Carnegie Hall concert and scored highly with the critics and audience in her section of the Ellington suite ''Black, Brown and Beige.''
        Her feature within the suite was the ''Blues'' sequence, meant to express the feelings of blacks who settled into urban life at the start of the 20th century. With its famous pyramidal lyric scheme -- it begins, ''The blues/the blues ain't/the blues ain't nothing/the blues ain't nothing but a cold gray day'' -- it became one of Ellington's greatest pieces for a singer.
        But Ms. Roche's rendition, in a concert recording, was not released until the 1970's because when Ellington made a studio recording of the suite in 1944, Ms. Roche had already been replaced by Joya Sherrill. In a similar bit of unfortunate luck, Ms. Roche sang ''Take the A Train'' with Ellington in the 1943 film ''Reveille With Beverly'' but wasn't recorded singing Ellington's signature tune until nine years later, in a be-bop style, on the album ''Ellington Uptown.''
        Ms. Roche also performed and recorded with the pianist Earl Hines, the trumpeter Clark Terry and the singer and pianist Charles Brown.  She made three recordings under her name for the Bethlehem and Prestige labels in the late 1950's and early 60's.
        She is survived by three grandchildren.
      