
        Bidu Sayao, a Brazilian soprano whose gossamer voice and vivacious personality made her one of the most popular stars of the Metropolitan Opera from the late 1930's through the 40's, died yesterday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me. She was 94 and lived in Lincolnville, Me.
        The diminutive Miss Sayao, restricted by her small voice to the lyric and coloratura repertory, often expressed regret that she could not sing such heavier roles as Tosca and Butterfly. But her interpretations of Manon, Violetta in ''La Traviata,'' Mimi in ''La Boheme'' and Susanna in ''Le Nozze di Figaro,'' among other roles, received consistent praise, with critics stressing her expressiveness, sensibility, girlishness and excellence of phrasing.
        Balduina de Oliveira Sayao was born on May 11, 1902, into a wealthy family in Rio de Janeiro. Although her childhood dramatizations in front of a mirror convinced her that she had a future as an actress, the family conviction that it was a metier for loose women dashed that hope. Piano lessons, too, were a decided failure, but when she was 13 a music-loving uncle helped arrange lessons with a celebrated former soprano, Elena Theodorini.
        After several years of study and  appearances at the court of Romania, her teacher's native country, Miss Sayao studied recital repertory in France with the tenor Jean de Reszke. An eventual audition in Rome led to an engagement as Rosina in ''Il Barbiere di Siviglia,'' and by her late 20's she had sung at many opera houses in Europe and South America.
        In a review of her first performance in the United States, a Town Hall recital on Dec. 30, 1935, Noel Strauss of The New York Times wrote that Miss Sayao's voice ''if light, was one of pronounced sweetness; silky and caressing when used at its best.''
        Soon afterward, Arturo Toscanini, who was preparing an all-Debussy program for the Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra -- precursor of the New York Philharmonic -- engaged the young soprano whose years in France had perfected her pronunciation, and gave her one week to learn ''La Demoiselle Elue.'' A short time later the Metropolitan Opera, which had recently lost Lucrezia Bori, a stalwart of French repertory, to retirement, invited Miss Sayao to sing the title role in ''Manon'' in February 1937.
        In The Times, Olin Downes wrote of the debut, ''Miss Sayao triumphed as a Manon should, by manners, youth and charm, and secondly by the way in which the voice became the vehicle of dramatic expression.'' The singer never again left the Western Hemisphere. The Met was her base, the San Francisco Opera her alternate headquarters and South America the only foreign territory to hear her in live performance.
        A month after her first Met ''Manon,'' Miss Sayao sang the lead role in ''La Traviata.'' Two weeks later she sang her first ''Boheme'' in the house, and Howard Taubman wrote in The Times that she sang with ''freshness and simplicity.''
        In all, the soprano sang more than 200 performances of 12 different roles at the Metropolitan. She made several opera and song recordings and gave many recitals. In December 1943 she and the baritone Lawrence Tibbett were soloists with the New York Philharmonic under the direction of Artur Rodzinski for the inaugural concert at the City Center of Music and Drama. The United States Government decorated her for her many performances in Army camps and hospitals during World War II.
        Miss Sayao resigned from the Metropolitan Opera in April 1952, a month before her 50th birthday. ''I am proud, and I did not want to wait until I was asked to leave,'' she said in an interview in 1987. And in 1957 after a performance of ''La Demoiselle Elue,'' which seemed to bring her career full circle, she abruptly retired, canceling many engagements for subsequent seasons. She told an interviewer years later that it was hard to stop but that being able to smoke again was a pleasure.
        The soprano's first marriage, to the Italian impresario Walter Mocchi, who headed the Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires for a time, ended in divorce. She and the baritone Giuseppe Danise were married in 1947, and he gave up his career to manage hers.
        After her husband's death in 1963, she divided her time between the Salisbury Hotel in Manhattan and her home in Lincolnville. She was  often seen at vocal events in New York City, a tiny woman in high heels, her reddish hair pulled back in the chignon familiar to several decades of opera fans.
        On a Metropolitan Opera broadcast in December 1989, the soprano plaintively gave a personal summation of her career: ''I had something appealing, I don't know what. The sincerity of my singing. I give my heart. I give my soul. I give myself.''
        Correction:  March 16, 1999, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the Brazilian soprano Bidu Sayao on Saturday misstated her age. She was 96, not 94. The obituary also omitted Ms. Sayao's most celebrated recording. The piece, ''Bachiana Brasileira No. 5,'' is a vocalise -- an aria without words -- transcribed for her by the Brazilian composer Heitor Villa-Lobos.
      