
        Muriel Bentley, an early member of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) who was praised for her comic gifts and witty dancing, died on Monday at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 82 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Bentley was probably best known for her long association with Jerome Robbins. She originated the role of the sassy, purse-toting woman in Robbins's ''Fancy Free.'' Speaking of the character in an interview in The New York Times last year, Ms. Bentley probably inadvertently described her own great charm best. ''My role was modeled after me,'' she said. ''The way I walked, the way I talked. It was like patent leather, shiny and bright and crisp.''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
        Ms. Bentley created the role of the villainous Stepmother in ''Fall River Legend,'' de Mille's 1948 ballet about Lizzie Borden. Describing the character as ''an incarnation of evil,'' John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, commented that Ms. Bentley had played the role so superbly that ''if the girl had not committed the murder herself almost anybody in the audience would gladly have done it for her.'' She also appeared as a risque young lady in de Mille's 1943 ballet ''Tally-Ho.''
        Born in New York, Ms. Bentley studied with teachers like Vecheslav Swoboda, Leon Fokine, Anton Dolin and Ruth St. Denis, and also trained at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School. While still a teen-ager, she danced with St. Denis in 1931 in ''The Prophetess.'' In 1936-37, she performed Spanish dance with Jose Greco, moving on to the Metropolitan Opera Ballet before joining Ballet Theater.
        At Ballet Theater, Ms. Bentley also danced major roles in Leonide Massine's ''Capriccio Espagnol,'' in de Mille's ''Three Virgins and a Devil,'' and in Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris,'' ''Undertow'' and ''Gala Performance.'' Ms. Bentley joined Robbins's Ballets: U.S.A. in 1958, performing in ballets that included ''N.Y. Export: Op. Jazz,'' ''The Concert'' and ''Moves.''
        Ms. Bentley also performed in Broadway musicals, among them ''Call Me Madam'' and ''West Side Story.''
        Ms. Bentley retired from the stage in the early 1960's and worked for a time in New York as an interior designer and a theatrical agent before moving to Los Angeles in the 1970's.
        She continued to work into the late 1980's in performing arts management.
        She has no immediate survivors.
      