
        Virginia Verrill, the on-screen singing voice of some of Hollywood's most famous leading ladies and later a popular radio star, died on Jan. 18 at the Mayview Nursing Home in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Raleigh.
        Ms. Verrill, born in Santa Monica, Calif., was a child of Hollywood, where her parents were musicians. At the age of 5 months she appeared in her mother's vaudeville act, and at 3 she made her first public singing appearance when Paul Whiteman, in whose band her father used to play, stood her on a piano while she sang ''I Never Knew I Could Love Anybody'' at the Palais Royale in Times Square. ''And from that minute, I guess,'' she later said, ''singing was what I wanted to do more than anything else.''
        At 15, already a veteran of a West Coast band led by Orville Knapp, she was heard performing in a school play and asked to audition for an off-screen role singing ''Ten Cents a Dance'' in Barbara Stanwyck's film of the same name. She beat out more than 300 competitors.
        She soon landed work as a professional dubber. Traveling from John Marshall High School in Los Angeles to Hollywood studios almost every day after school, she would sing for leading ladies whose voices were not considered quite up to par.
        Disillusioned, Ms. Verrill left Hollywood in 1935 for the ''Socony Sketchbook'' on CBS radio and recorded with the Isham Jones Orchestra.
        The tables seemed to turn in 1937, when she was seen on screen in ''Walter Wanger's Vogues of 1938,'' starring Warner Baxter and Joan Bennett. Ms. Verrill sang ''That Old Feeling,'' which became a hit.
        The same year she was cast as the female lead in ''The Goldwyn Follies'' and taken under the wing of Samuel Goldwyn.
        With newly dyed and styled hair, high heels and lifts in her shoes, Ms. Verrill was presented as ''the second Myrna Loy,'' and stardom seemed almost a certainty.
        But the Goldwyn Company decided that the similarities between the two actresses were too strong. Ms. Verrill, who had already recorded the film's soundtrack, suddenly found herself ousted by the actress of the moment, Andrea Leeds, who had become an overnight success that year in ''Stage Door.''
        Ms. Verrill abandoned Hollywood in the spring of 1938 for a career in radio and retired in 1942.
        She is survived by her husband, Dr. Louis Duddleston, and a son, James Breyley Jr., both of Raleigh; a daughter, Diana Caldwell of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      