
        Vivian Hallinan, the striking matriarch of one of San Francisco's best-known and most colorful political families, died on Tuesday at a granddaughter's home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 88.
        Mrs. Hallinan, the widow of Vincent Hallinan, a fiery socialist lawyer who died in 1995, made a multi-million-dollar fortune by buying apartment buildings during the Great Depression.
        ''She didn't trust the stock market, so she didn't get wiped out, and had money to buy buildings real cheap,'' said Shane Hallinan, the granddaughter at whose home Mrs. Hallinan died.
        Her profits financed her political causes, which included leftist movements like the Sandinistas in Nicaragua. ''She was aware of the contradiction,'' Shane Hallinan said. ''But she believed she was able to do something to better the world with the money she made.''
        A native San Franciscan, Mrs. Hallinan was born Oct. 21, 1910, to Ed Moore and Katherine Lagomarsino Moore. After her parents' brief marriage ended, she was reared by her mother, whose maiden name she adopted, and by a series of immigrant Italian relatives. She attended the University of California at Berkeley.
        After her marriage in 1932 to Mr. Hallinan Mrs. Hallinan reared six sons. She wrote about the experience in ''My Wild Irish Rogues'' (Doubleday & Company, 1952).
        Politics was her passion as much as parenting, however. She helped her husband with his campaign in 1952 as the Presidential candidate of the Progressive Party. She also held the family together when he spent six months in jail in the 1950's for contempt of court, in connection with his support of the labor organizer Harry Bridges, who was accused of being a Communist Party member.
        Mrs. Hallinan, elegant and chestnut-haired, served 30 days for participating in the 1964 civil rights demonstrations in San Francisco. She was also tear-gassed once, in Chile in the early 1980's.
        ''She found the experience in jail heartening,'' Shane Hallinan said. ''She was used to being judged by her movie-star looks or her money, and here she was with just all these other women. The other stuff didn't matter, and she liked that.''
        With her during that civil rights demonstration were all of her sons, including Terence Hallinan, now the district attorney for San Francisco.  ''Everyone was there except my father, who stayed outside with the bail money,'' said Patrick Hallinan of Kentfield, Calif.
        Besides Terence and Patrick, Mrs. Hallinan is survived by three other sons: Matthew, Daniel and Conn, all of Berkeley, and 16 grandchildren.
      