
        Elizabeth Huckaby, who as a vice principal shepherded nine black students through the tumultuous integration of Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died on March 18 in Little Rock.
        Mrs. Huckaby, whose memoir, ''Crisis at Central High,'' inspired a 1981 television movie recounting the landmark civil rights confrontation, was 93.
        In September 1957, Mrs. Huckaby was about to enter her 28th year at Central High. A native of Hamburg, Ark., the daughter of a Presbyterian minister and a graduate of the University of Arkansas, she was accustomed to the ways of the South. As she remembered it, ''I had never known any black well, except those in household employ.''
        Soon, she would be trying to shield the first black students at Central High from intimidation by white students.
        As an outgrowth of the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation decision, the Little Rock school board admitted nine blacks to Central High for the 1957-58 school year. But Gov. Orval E. Faubus called out the National Guard to prevent their entry. President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent the 101st Airborne Division to Little Rock and placed the Arkansas guardsmen under Federal control to insure the black students' admission in the face of mob action.
        On one occasion, 50 boys gathered atop the stairs at the school's entrance when no troops were in sight and shouted racial epithets at the blacks as they approached.
        Melba Pattillo Beals, in her memoir, ''Warriors Don't Cry'' (Pocket Books, 1994), recalled what happened as she and other black students were about to retreat:
        ''Vice Principal Huckaby made her presence known at the bottom of the stairs. Tiny, erect, and determined, she stood there all alone between us and our attackers, demanding they leave us alone. One by one she challenged the leaders, calling them by name, telling them to get to class or there would be hell to pay. Whether or not she favored integration, she had a heck of a lot of guts.''
        The best-remembered image of the Little Rock events is a photograph showing a white girl, her face contorted in rage, screaming at Elizabeth Eckford, a black girl entering the school.
        Mrs. Huckaby, the vice principal for girls and an English teacher, took the white student to her office.
        ''I told her, hatred destroys the people who hate,'' Mrs. Huckaby recalled. ''She shrugged. Well, that was the way she felt, she said. Wasted breath.''
        Mrs. Huckaby later persuaded Miss Eckford to remain in school after she came to her office in tears over continuing harassment.
        The tensions took their toll on Mrs. Huckaby, who testified at a June 1958 court hearing: ''I would lie awake at night wondering what I could do. I had no social life at all because on weekends I was too tired. I would go out to the country and just sit.''
        Eight of the nine black students remained through the school year, and at commencement ceremonies on May 27, 1958, Ernest Green became the first black graduate of Central High. Mrs. Huckaby stayed at the school until retiring in 1969. ''Crisis at Central High'' (Louisiana State University Press, 1980), based on journals she had kept during the confrontation, was made into a CBS movie that brought Joanne Woodward an Emmy nomination for her portrayal of Mrs. Huckaby.
        Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.''
        She supported school integration, believing, she said, that ''no public school system segregated by law on the basis of race is consistent with democracy.''
      