
        Dr. Hildegard Elizabeth Peplau, a nursing educator who played a major role in developing the theory and practice of psychiatric and mental health nursing, died on March 17 at her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. She was 89.
        Dr. Peplau wrote a seminal text, ''Interpersonal Relations in Nursing: A Conceptual Frame of Reference for Psychodynamic Nursing,''  which was completed in 1948 and published in 1952. It was translated into several languages and left an impact in much of the world.
        She introduced the concept of nurse-patient relationship, an interpersonal approach that has since been integrated into nursing education and practice. With this, she was considered a force in elevating nursing to a profession.
        Colleagues regarded Dr. Peplau as the ''mother of psychiatric nursing,'' said Dr. Grayce M. Sills, professor emeritus at the Ohio State University College of Nursing and a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing.
        Referring to the general acceptance of Dr. Peplau's interpersonal process, Dr. Sills added, ''It has been argued that Dr. Peplau's life and work produced the greatest changes in nursing practice since Florence Nightingale.''
        Dr. Peplau's book was also deemed highly unusual at the time because it had been written by a nurse, without a physician as a co-author. Its English version remains in print with a 1991 edition from Springer.
        Dr. Peplau was born in Reading, Pa., and witnessed the deadly influenza epidemic of 1918, which defined her understanding of the impact of illness and death on families.
        She graduated from Pottstown Hospital School of Nursing in 1931 and from Bennington College in 1942. She served in the Army Nurse Corps as a first lieutenant in World War II and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in education in 1953.
        She studied psychology for a certificate from the William Alanson White Institute (1953), and that study inspired her to adapt the interpersonal approach for the nursing profession.
        Dr. Peplau directed the graduate program of psychiatric nursing at Columbia Teachers College from 1948 to 1953 and its counterpart at Rutgers University after that. She retired from Rutgers as a professor emeritus in 1974.
        She lectured worldwide and wrote articles for many publications. She was also executive director and president of the American Nurses Association, which inducted her into its Hall of Fame last year, and was a board member of the International Council of Nurses, which honored her with its highest award, the Christiane Reimann Prize, in 1997.
        Dr. Peplau is survived by a sister, Bertha Reppert, of Mechanicsburg, Pa., and a foster brother, John D. Forster, of Reading.
      