
        Lucienne Bloch, an acclaimed muralist whose most significant contribution to art may have been a series of surreptitious photographs she took in 1933, died on March 13 at her home in Gualala, Calif. She was 90.
        She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines on May, 8, 1933, are the sole visual record of the great Diego Rivera's ill-fated Rockefeller Center fresco with its doomed depiction of Lenin.
        At a time of economic distress, when capitalism itself seemed vulnerable to competing currents of social change, if anybody was going to pin Lenin on a capitalist wall it was Diego Rivera, the fiery Mexican muralist whose artistic acclaim was matched only by his reputation as a fiercely committed, if renegade, Communist.
        If anybody was going to stop him it was John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s son, Nelson A. Rockefeller, who had commissioned Rivera to paint a 1,000-square-foot fresco, ''Man at the Crossroads,'' in the great hall of the new RCA Building, the soaring Rockefeller Center capstone now known as the G.E. Building and at the time an especially potent symbol of capitalism.
        Sure enough, when it became apparent that Rivera was intent on portraying Lenin as a charismatic leader, Rockefeller asked him to substitute an anonymous figure, and Rivera refused.
        Realizing his work was doomed, Rivera hired a photographer to take pictures of the mural, but Rockefeller, determined that there be no record of what the family regarded as desecration of their property, had guards at the building thwart the effort.
        Aware that the mural would be sealed off the next day, the Rockefellers could be complacent, but only because they had not reckoned on  Miss Bloch, an unpaid Rivera assistant who seemed an unlikely foot soldier in his anti-capitalist cause.
        A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
        There, Miss Bloch studied sculpture at the Ecole des Beaux Arts and made a yearlong side trip to the Netherlands, studying at the Leerdam glass works and turning out such impressive glass sculptures that she had a one-woman show in New York in 1931 and was invited by Frank Lloyd Wright to teach at his Wisconsin school.
        By then, however, she had become fascinated by another art. Shortly after her arrival in New York in 1931, she was invited to a banquet honoring Rivera in connection with his famous one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art. Largely because Rivera spoke little English and no one else spoke Spanish, the 22-year-old Miss Bloch, who spoke French, a language Rivera also knew, was seated next to the great man.
        During their animated conversation, a dark-haired woman came up behind Miss Bloch and said, ''I hate you,'' a comment of such disarming candor that Miss Bloch burst out laughing. The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.
        As the the daughter of a womanizing father, Miss Bloch made clear, she had no designs on Kahlo's womanizing husband, a pledge that laid the groundwork for a remarkable friendship.
        Over the next few years, Miss Bloch worked on Rivera's controversial mural at the Detroit Institute of Art and on the Rockefeller Center project, along the way falling in love with the artist's chief plasterer, Stephen P. Dimitroff, a young Bulgarian immigrant, and immortalizing their romance in lyrical passages in her diary, which a granddaughter, Lucienne Allen, plans to use as the basis for a book.
        The couple, who eventually married, became an artistic team, he handling the plaster and she the painting for frescoes all over the country, including her most acclaimed work, ''The Evolution of Music,'' at George Washington High School in upper Manhattan.
        They lived for a time in Flint, Mich., where he became a union organizer and she photographed strikes for Life and other publications, before eventually moving to Mill Valley, Calif., where Mr. Dimitroff, who died in 1996, operated a frame shop until the couple retired to Gualala in 1965.
        After a lifetime devoted to art, including wide-ranging sculptures in glass, wood and terra cotta and a famous series of photographs of Kahlo, Miss Bloch is nevertheless largely recalled for her association with another artist's work, but, then, the artist was Rivera, widely regarded as a 20th century giant, and her photographs are all that remain of his most famous work.
        For that, Miss Bloch, who is survived by two sons, George Ernst Dimitroff of Tumwater, Wash., and Pancho Dimitroff of Aurora, Colo; a daughter, Sita Milchev, of Gualala; a sister, Suzanne Bloch Smith of New York; 8 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, had only herself to blame.
        It was she, after all, on the night after Rivera's hired photographer had been thwarted, who slipped a camera under her blouse and walked boldly into the RCA building with Mr. Dimitroff and Kahlo, who distracted the guards while Miss Bloch climbed up on the scaffold and proceeded to photograph the mural.
        The next day, in what has been likened to a military operation, the mural was shrouded from public view.
        Nine months later, after the resulting furor had subsided, it was scraped into oblivion -- almost.
        Rivera did a copy in Mexico City, complete with Lenin, but it is only Miss Bloch's photographs that show it as it was -- on a Rockefeller wall.
        Correction:  April 6, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary of the muralist Lucienne Bloch on March 28 misspelled the given name of her father. He was Ernest Bloch, not Ernst.
      