
        Sarah (Sadie) Delany, the last of the storied Delany sisters, died peacefully in her sleep at age 109 yesterday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y., spokesmen for her family said.
        She was the oldest survivor of one of America's most remarkable families, the daughter of a man who had been born a slave, and the first colored woman -- the term she preferred -- ever permitted to teach home economics in white New York City schools.
        Miss Delany and her younger sister, Dr. A. Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, were always celebrated in Harlem, where they lived and flourished from 1916 to 1957, after leaving their native Raleigh, N.C.
        Dr. Delany, who received her doctorate in dental surgery from Columbia in 1923, was the second black woman licensed to practice dentistry in New York State. She had an office in Harlem and was known to thousands of people only as ''Dr. Bessie.'' She charged $2 for a cleaning and $5 for a silver filling and never raised her rates in 27 years of practice.
        The sisters gained widespread fame after the publication in 1993 of a memoir they called ''Having Our Say; The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years.'' They wrote it with Amy Hill Hearth as an oral history from their early days in the Jim Crow South to their arrival in New York City during the Harlem Renaissance to their life in a white suburb.
        The book, now part of curriculums at hundreds of colleges and high schools, was on the New York Times hardcover best-seller list for 28 weeks and on the paperback list for 77 weeks. They followed it in 1995  with ''The Delany Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom.''
        In 1995, ''Having Our Say'' was adapted by Emily Mann into a Broadway play that was nominated for three Tony awards. The play followed the sisters in virtually nonstop conversation while they prepared an annual meal celebrating their father's birthday in the home they owned on a dead-end street in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        The sisters lived in that house from 1957 to 1995, and Miss Delany  remained there after Dr. Delany died in 1995 at 104. ''She is my right arm,'' Miss Delany had told an interviewer shortly before her sister's death. ''If she were to die first, I'm not sure I would want to go on living because the reason I am living is to keep her living.''
        But Sadie, as her friends called her, kept going, just as the Delany sisters always had. Her last book, with Ms. Hearth, ''On My Own at 107: Reflections on a Life Without Bessie,'' appeared in May 1997.
        The sisters liked to say that Dr. Bessie was the acerbic one, who was convinced it was her duty to tell people the truth, whether it concerned race relations or their molars. Sadie would say to her, ''Bessie, don't you realize that people don't want to hear the truth?''
        If Dr. Bessie was the vinegar, then Miss Sadie was the molasses, with an uncommon talent for getting along  and for being as sweet as the candy she used to make for extra money as a young teacher.
        The Delanys were a mix of hard-working African, white and American Indian stock, a family that was rich in everything but money, reserved, aristocratic and irrepressible even as they suffered through segregation.
        Sadie Delany always thought of herself as a ''colored woman'' or, if one insisted on labels, a Negro. She never saw herself as black -- that did not describe her color, she used to say -- nor did she care for the term African-American.
        Henry Beard Delany, their gentle, scholarly father, was born into slavery in 1858. The Delanys were house slaves of a St. Marys, Ga., family named Mock, who taught them to read and write. Henry Delany later attended St. Augustine's School in Raleigh and became the first Negro bishop of the Episcopal Church. He met his future wife, Nanny James Logan, at St. Augustine's. Sarah Louise Delany, their second child, was  born Sept. 19, 1889, at an aunt's home in Lynch's Station, Va. She grew up with two sisters and six brothers on  the campus of St. Augustine's, where their father was vice principal.
        Happy though they might have been, the South around them was not. The former Confederate states were still reacting to the loss of the war nearly 50 years before. The sisters took different approaches to the Jim Crow laws passed across the south around 1914. In ''Having Our Say,'' Sadie Delany wrote:
        ''I'll tell you how I handled white people. There was a shoe store in Raleigh called Heller's. The owner was a Jewish man, very nice. If you were colored, you had to go in the back to try on shoes, and white people sat in front. It wasn't Mr. Heller's fault; this was the Jim Crow law. I would go in there and say, 'Good morning, Mr. Heller, I would like to try on those shoes in the window.' And I would say, 'Where, Mr. Heller?' And he would gesture to the back and say, 'Back there.' And I would say, 'Back where?' Well, I'd just worry that man to death. Finally, he'd say, 'Just sit anywhere, Miss Delany!' And so I would sit myself down in the white section, and smile.
        ''Now Bessie thinks that I shouldn't play dumb like that,'' she recalled. ''But I don't care. I got to sit in the white section.''
        Sadie Delany liked to say that  when she got her master's degree in education from Columbia in 1925, a white teacher there observed, ''That Sarah Delany. You tell her to do something, she smiles at you, and then she just turns around and does what she wants anyway.''
        In this, Miss Delany said, she was ''just like Papa.''
        She graduated from St. Augustine's in 1910. Her first job was working for the black school system in Wake County, N.C., teaching subjects like sanitation, how to can food and how to care for newborn infants.
        Years later, she remembered her students: ''They looked up to me and I showed them it was possible to live a better life, despite what white people were trying to do to us.'' She proudly recalled driving Booker T. Washington around when he visited.
        The Delany sisters first saw New York City in 1915, on a visit with their mother. Their father agreed to let them move to New York to attend college. Sadie Delany moved first, in  1916, and Bessie came along a year later. It was one of the rare times when the sisters were separated. Eventually, 9 of the 10 Delany children moved to New York, and all received college educations. Only Lemuel, the oldest, stayed in the South. The sisters are survived by 13 nieces and nephews.
        At one point, Sadie, Bessie, Julia, Hubert and Lucius Delany lived together at 2505 Seventh Avenue and West 145th Street in Harlem, each paying a $9 share of the monthly rent. Their neighbors complained.
        ''They thought we were running a fast house!'' the two sisters recalled.  ''We don't know why it didn't occur to them that we were brothers and sisters, except that they must have had unclear minds. So we had a little talk with the super and straightened out the whole mess.'' The Delanys had quite a few such talks over the years with people who did not understand them, and they always straightened out the mess.
        While she was teaching at Public School 119, Sadie Delany found she could not support herself on the salary, so she started baking cakes and selling them for a nickel a slice to other teachers. She also made lemon and cinnamon lollipops, which she sold for a penny a piece.
        People liked her cakes and candies so much that she rented a loft on 121st Street in the late 1920's and made homemade chocolate fondant, a soft, creamy affair. Called ''Delany's Delights,'' it was soon sold all over New York, including Abraham & Straus, at $2 a pound. She closed her business down after the 1929 stock market crash. ''People had no money for chocolate fondant, that's for sure,'' she said.
        After years of teaching at predominantly black grade schools, Miss Delany wanted to teach high-school level domestic science, as home economics was then called. She had a master's from Columbia, after all. No Negro had ever done that before. She applied for a job, and received a letter from the Board of Education asking to meet her.
        She knew that if the board members saw her, they would not hire her. So she skipped the appointment, sent a polite letter explaining there had been a ''mixup,'' and just showed up at the all-white Theodore Roosevelt High School on the first day of class.
        ''They just about died when they saw me,'' she recalled. ''A colored woman!''
        She kept the job and spent the rest of her career teaching at excellent high schools before retiring in 1960. Among them were Girls' High School in Brooklyn, Evander Childs High School in the Bronx and Washington Irving High School in Manhattan, where she taught adults at night.
        It was lonely, she said. Some of her  fellow teachers, who were all white,  were friendly, she said, ''but you couldn't count on any of them being your real friend.''
        She told Ms. Hearth: ''New York was no piece of cake for a colored person, but it was an improvement over the South, child. But don't go thinking I don't love the South. I was born there, and I expect to be buried there, right next to my Mama and Papa. Raleigh will always be home.''
        ''Sadie is molasses without even trying,'' her sister once said. ''She can sweet-talk the world, or play dumb, or whatever it takes to get by without a fuss.'' ''
        But sometimes the molasses could boil. The Board of Education once sent her what she called a ''nasty'' letter. She had lived for so long that the bean counters had become convinced that she must have died and that somebody else was cashing all those pension checks. She was furious, but as usual straightened it all out.
        Toward the end of her life, Sadie Delany did not want anybody to think that she and her sister were just a couple of old women letting life slip by as they sat in their rocking chairs. ''Why, we don't even own a rocking chair,'' she said.
        She said she woke up every morning at 6:30, smiled and said, ''Thank you, Lord, for another day.'' Then she would wake up Bessie, a late sleeper, who would open her eyes and say, ''Oh Lord, another day?''
        Then they would prepare their food, consuming as many as seven different vegetables a day and lots of fresh fruit. They took vitamin supplements, boiled their water despite assurances that people could drink Mount Vernon water and live. They took up Yoga. They ate milk shakes for dinner, watched the nightly news on public television, said their prayers (extra ones for the people Bessie didn't like) and went to bed.
        They believed that their simple lives and good food contributed to their longevity. Bessie said another reason was they ''never had husbands to worry us to death.''
        But Sadie Delany said, ''Life is short, and it's up to you to make it sweet.''
      