
        Ann Corio, the auburn-haired, green-eyed queen of burlesque whose long-running show, ''This Was Burlesque,'' kept alive the art of strippers and the comedy of baggy-pants clowns in the age of the X-rated film, died on March 1 at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. Ms. Corio, a resident of Cliffside Park, N.J., kept her age a closely guarded secret, but was believed to be in her 80's.
        A survivor of a shapely sisterhood that included Gypsy Rose Lee, Maggie Hart and Georgia Sothern, Ms. Corio lasted long enough to reach the iconic status that enabled her to present the striptease as a put-on.
        ''We emphasize comedy,'' she said one day in 1976 as she discussed her show, which began Off Broadway in 1962 and continued for at least two decades in various productions, tours and revivals with Ms. Corio as author, director, star and interlocutor. ''There is no total nudity. The girls are lovely and artistic, and they're terribly, terribly pretty.
        ''What is called burlesque today isn't that at all. Those girls aren't artists. They just take clothes off, and they don't even do that very well. Burlesque is exactly what it says it is. It's from the Italian word burlare, to satirize, to laugh. That's what we do, and we are not offensive.''
        Those old enough to remember when strippers in burlesque houses were regarded as hot stuff could recall Ms. Corio as a reigning beauty of the East Coast wheel of burlesque houses that extended from Boston to Washington, with many a whistle-stop in between.
        Her fame won her roles in jungle films like ''Swamp Woman'' (1941) and touring stage productions like ''White Cargo,'' in which she sashayed onstage one night in Boston, playing a native girl under a light layer of brown powder and not much more. When she declaimed, ''I am Tondelayo,'' a Harvard undergraduate leaped from his seat and shouted, ''What an actress!''
        Legend had it that it was said in Boston, ''You can't graduate from Harvard until you've seen Ann Corio.''
        The play had the honor of being banned in Boston, Chicago and Hoboken, N.J.
        Of her movies, Ms. Corio said, ''Those pictures always made money, and I made a lot of money. I asked for $10,000 a week and a percentage and got it, but I didn't know they were going to shoot the movie in six days. They didn't want the movie good. They wanted it Tuesday. I was the Queen of the Quickies. Those pictures weren't released, they escaped.''
        As burlesque faded away, Ms. Corio toured in shows like ''Rain,'' ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' and ''Once More With Feeling'' until she conceived the idea of ''This Was Burlesque.''
        ''We're naughty and bawdy, but never vulgar,'' she said. ''More than half our audience are women. They love it. Even the kids respond to it. To go to a movie these days, you need a computer to figure out the ratings. The whole family can see my show.''
        ''Nudity,'' she added, ''is an invasion of privacy on both sides of the footlights.''
        Ms. Corio was one of 12 children of Italian immigrants from Naples who settled in Hartford, where, she said, she was once a Sunday school teacher. Her father died when she was  young, and at 16, after working as a dancer, she discovered she could earn more on the burlesque circuit.
        In addition to her husband, Michael P. Iannucci, she is survived by two sisters, Helen LaRue of West Hartford, Conn., and Lillian Denote of Bristol, Conn.
        ''This Was Burlesque,'' billed as a musical satire based on Ms. Corio's recollections, opened at the Casino East Theater on Second Avenue and 12th Street in Manhattan and ran for 1,509 performances before it moved to the Hudson Theater on Broadway and ran for 124 more. Over the ensuing years, numerous productions played across the country from Miami to Las Vegas to San Juan. The last performance was in St. Petersburg, Fla., in 1991.
        In a 1981 review of a revival at the Princess Theater on West 48th Street, Richard F. Shepard of The New York Times wrote: ''Miss Corio, who looks radiant, does it all by the book and, whether you like the book or not, it is to her credit that she catches the flavor of the old burlesque with little attempt to ennoble or elevate it. This is close to the real thing.''
        Ms. Corio and her third husband, Mr. Iannucci, a former linebacker for the Pittsburgh Steelers, made millions from the show. Eventually, they leased the Playhouse on the Mall in Paramus, N.J., where, for many years, they presented legitimate productions and where ''This Was Burlesque'' was eventually filmed as an HBO cable attraction.
        Ms. Corio, who retired about eight years ago, recalled that shortly after the show first opened on Second Avenue, the police showed up. ''One night we thought we were being raided, but it was only the cops arriving to escort Mike to the bank. We never had trouble with the police. And I was invited to Gracie Mansion. Mayor Wagner insisted I sit next to him for the photographers.''
        As a result of charges that burlesque had become lewd and unsavory, it was banned in New York in 1937. Five years later, it was permitted to return, but without the use of the label and in a restricted format. A court finally lifted the ban in 1955.
        Nevertheless, Ms. Corio's efforts to present her show at the 1964-65 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens, were rebuffed by Robert Moses, the pillar of municipal rectitude who presided over the corporation that ran the event.
        ''You know, we're really quite mild compared to what children are exposed to on television -- topless bathing suits and all,'' Ms. Corio said.
        But the show did not go on.
        ''There's nothing really new,'' she said. ''It's comedy, pretty girls, bubble gum, stepping on toes, the kind of stuff you can leave your brains home for. It's burlesque.''
        As she once put it, ''We do nothing you wouldn't write home about to your aunt in East Cupcake, Ohio.''
        Correction:  March 10, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the burlesque performer Ann Corio yesterday misstated the given name of another prominent performer in her field. She was Margie Hart, not Maggie.
      