
        Vera Tolstoy, a Russian refugee who became a teen-age bride in Czechoslovakia, worked as a hairdresser in Prague, sang Gypsy songs in Paris, sold perfume in New York and spent 25 years with the Voice of America in Washington, died on Monday at her retirement home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. She was 96 and the last living link to her grandfather Leo Tolstoy.
        To the world of the early 1900's, Leo Tolstoy was a literary giant who had become the ''hermit of Yasnaya Polyana,'' the luxurious family estate 150 miles south of Moscow where he lived for 48 years and wrote  ''Anna Karenina'' and ''War and Peace.''
        To his granddaughter, who grew up on a nearby estate with her mother, Sophia, and father, Ilya, the author's second son, he was simply her beloved bushy-faced dedushka, the jolly man in a peasant shirt who bounced her on his knee and tickled her cheek with his whiskers.
        A small, lively woman who could affect a magisterial air, Miss Tolstoy dropped her hereditary title, Countess, after she came to the United States in 1949, but as an aristocratic exercise of noblesse oblige saw no reason to correct friends who continued to address her that way.
        Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
        As a second-generation descendant of a man who had 13 children (and now has some 200 living descendants) Miss Tolstoy, the youngest of seven surviving siblings, liked to call herself Tolstoy's last granddaughter and never mind that a cousin from the Swedish branch of the family might still be alive.
        As she made clear to relatives, the Swedish branch, descended from  Tolstoy's son Leo didn't count since they didn't speak Russian.
        For Miss Tolstoy, who was 7 when her grandfather died in 1910 and 10 when the outbreak of World War I gave her father an excuse to desert his family (he eventually settled in the United States and remarried), the aristocratic life was short-lived.
        After the Russian Revolution she and her mother made a harrowing escape, eventually landing in Czechoslovakia, where Miss Tolstoy got a job as translator for a wealthy lumber merchant, Odo Bakovsky, and then married him in an Islamic ceremony, giving birth to a son, Serge, in 1922.
        Five years later, after her husband had lost his money and, she said, become unfaithful and quarrelsome, she sought to have the marriage declared illegal, explaining that she would rather have an annulment than a divorce because as a prospective single mother she preferred to have an illegitimate Tolstoy than a legitimate Bakovsky.
        Miss Tolstoy, whose son had been kidnapped by his father then rekidnapped by her, had to settle for a divorce, but her son, her only immediate survivor, who now lives in Washington, is known as Serge Tolstoy.
        After supporting her mother and son by working as a hairdresser in Prague, Miss Tolstoy moved to Paris after her mother's death in the 1930's and worked as a nightclub singer.
        It was her aunt Alexandra Tolstoy,  founder of the Tolstoy Foundation in Valley Cottage, N.Y., who sponsored her immigration to the United States in 1949. After a brief stay at the foundation's farm and a stint selling perfume for Elizabeth Arden in New York, she moved to Washington in 1954 and Florida in 1979.
        In 1991 she went back to Russia for a family reunion that drew dozens of Tolstoys, including many who had remained in the Soviet Union, to Yasnaya Polyana, a museum that is virtually a shrine.
        Finding the house much as she remembered it, including the formal dining room table with its elegant china and fine silver covered by a glass dome and her grandfather's signature wide-brim hat and peasant shirt hanging next to his washstand, Miss Tolstoy was in her element, spotting a photograph taken with her grandfather when she was 3, but not finding every detail to her liking.
        When she saw an alabaster monument to Lenin, a distinct incongruity in a museum devoted to a member of the Russian nobility, Miss Tolstoy responded first by using an American barnyard epithet, then reverted to aristocratic type.
        ''That statue,'' she said, poking her walking stick at the offensive item, and using her most imperious voice, ''should be taken away.''
      