
        Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin. She was 83.
        Ms. Anderson, whose last name was originally Handelsman, had returned to Berlin on April 7 after two weeks in New York to promote her new book, ''Love in Exile,'' published in March by Steerforth Press of South Royalton, Vt.
        The product of decades of reminiscences, journalism and correspondence, the book traces Ms. Anderson's odyssey from a conservative Jewish upbringing in the Bronx, to a stint at the Communist newspaper Daily Worker, to encounters with Richard Wright, Simone de Beauvoir, Anna Seghers, Stefan Heym and other literati. She also wrote of her consuming romance with Max Schroeder, a surrealist poet, editor and antifascist whom she married and followed from his wartime exile in New York back to Soviet-controlled East Germany in 1947.
        ''Love in Exile'' has been hailed by Grace Paley, Doris Lessing and Vivian Gornick, among other writers, as a sharp and gripping portrait of an ideological and human landscape as foreign to today's Americans as the dark side of the moon. A review in The New York Times Book Review  found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
        In an early section, she described how she landed her job at The Daily Worker in 1942, when she was 26.
        ''Hastening down Broadway to my Marxist analyst who charged only $5 a session because I was unemployed (he too was still young) I bumped into a former college crony named Milton. He hailed me joyously. 'You're just the person I need!' He told me he was cultural editor of The Daily Worker but had just been drafted into the Army and must find a replacement by the weekend.''
        She was overwhelmed. She would scrub floors at The Daily Worker. But she had no newspaper experience. She wrote:
        '' 'I'll break you in,' he said.
        '' 'In three days?
        '' 'Less.' ''
        She asked herself how she had the nerve to pass herself off as cultural editor. ''My analyst brushed these scruples aside. He was delighted that I had a real challenge to bite into; life, as Marx said, was a struggle and I was no more a fraud than anyone else.''
        Still, she was soon dismissed and ended up as one of the women on train crews hired to replace men called to war. Shortly afterward, she met Mr. Schroeder, a craggy and mesmerizing onetime bohemian 17 years her senior. He had escaped from Nazi captivity in Vichy, France, and was editing an anti-fascist publication in New York.
        After he returned to Germany in 1946, she followed the next year, via Paris, after almost joining the American Army in a desperate effort to enter restricted Berlin at a time when almost everyone there would have given anything to get out. She was to remain, with only intermittent visits home, for the next 52 years, although her husband died in 1958. They had a daughter, Cordelia, who still lives in Berlin.
        In ''Love in Exile,'' Ms. Anderson said that as a widow she considered returning to the United States with her daughter but was deterred by the imagined voice of Max: ''What right have you to deprive her of the Socialism for which so many people died or went into exile? It may be imperfect but something can be made of it.'' The book ends in 1962.
        Although clearly enamored of Marxism since youth, Ms. Anderson was not overtly political, said her childhood friend, the writer Helen Yglesias, a classmate at James Monroe High School in the Bronx. ''She was highly sympathetic to Max's idealism and his hope that a just society could be built,'' she said.
        But she was a sharp and often corrosive chronicler of the death throes of the German Democratic Republic as Communism collapsed and the Berlin Wall fell in 1989: ''a kaleidoscope rolling downhill,'' as she described it.
        In an account of the final days, later included in an anthology, ''Without Force or Lies'' (1990), she wrote of traveling through East Germany in a train compartment with her grandson and watching a young man and woman, strangers, suddenly shed their inhibitions and take up the taboo subject of politics.
        The man, agitated, ripped off his tie, warning that East Germans  ''had just about had it,'' she wrote.
        '' 'I give it one more year before something busts,' he said.
        '' 'Six months,' she replied.''
        Her grandson grew alarmed and Ms. Anderson sought to calm him. ''But I felt my own scalp creep, as if some law of nature had had broken, a sheep instead of baaing shouted in a human voice, 'Enough!'
        ''The young woman had hit it right on the nose: six months. The unthinkable happened here.''
        At the same time, Ms. Anderson also wrote acidly of the former West Germans ''tramping around'' the prostrate east, flooding it with inferior ''Western goods.''
        Edith Handelsman grew up on Hoe Avenue in the Bronx and graduated in 1937 from New College, a division of Teachers College at Columbia University. In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a brother, John Bernard Handelsman of Hampton Bays, N.Y., a cartoonist at The New Yorker, and a grandson.
        Besides her memoir, Ms. Anderson also wrote ''Gelbes Licht'' (''Yellow Light'') in 1956 about her railroad work, and short stories, children's books and radio plays. A play, ''Wo Ist Katalin? (''Where Is Katalin?''), was produced in Weimar in 1977. From 1960 to 1977 she was the Berlin correspondent for The New York National Guardian.
        Mr. Handelsman said that on her recent book-promotion visit to New York, his sister seemed confused and forgetful, possibly presaging her fatal stroke.
        But Ms. Anderson's literary agent, Malaga Baldi of Manhattan, said any infirmities disappeared at a reading the author gave at the New School for Social Research on March 25.
        ''She started to read an excerpt,'' Ms. Baldi said, ''but the people would not let her stop.''
      