
        Baroness Batsheva de Rothschild, a patron of Martha Graham and of modern dance in Israel, died on Tuesday at her home in Tel Aviv. She was 84.
        The granddaughter of Baron James de Rothschild, the founder of the French branch of the Rothschild banking family, Baroness de Rothschild became a supporter of Graham after seeing performances by her and her company in New York in the early 1940's. She bought the house on East 63d Street in Manhattan that was the company's headquarters for many years and supported the Graham school and its activities.
        Baroness de Rothschild began her professional life as a research biologist at a laboratory in Paris. She came to the United States at the start of World War II, studied chemistry and biology at Columbia University and worked in an industrial laboratory.
        During the war she worked for the Free French movement in New York and London. She enlisted in the French Army and landed in Normandy after the Allied invasion. She was a liaison between the French and United States forces in Paris, returning to New York at the end of the war.
        In her quiet way, Baroness de Rothschild intrigued the Graham dancers, who knew her as Bethsabee, the French version of her first name.
        ''For all I know, the tour being my first, wardrobe mistresses are always baronesses,'' Paul Taylor wrote in his autobiography, ''Private Domain.'' ''Bethsabee supervises the laundering and packing of our costumes with quiet efficiency, almost as if born to it, and by looking at her own outfits, you can't tell she's an heiress -- that is, if you don't know that expensive dresses are sometimes the dumpiest.''
        Besides supervising the wardrobe, Baroness de Rothschild was involved in a wide range of company activities, including taking a few dance classes with Graham and buying the dancers jewelry one Christmas at a lavish party she gave for the troupe.
        Baroness de Rothschild founded the Batsheva de Rothschild Foundation for Arts and Sciences in the early 1950's in New York. The foundation's first project, in 1953, was to sponsor a two-week festival of American modern dance on Broadway. In addition to underwriting Graham tours, the foundation also helped establish the Juilliard Dance Theater, directed by Doris Humphrey, and sponsored a second three-week festival of modern dance on Broadway.
        One of the Baroness's greatest contributions to modern dance was the founding of the Graham-based Batsheva Dance Company in 1964 in Tel Aviv. Baroness de Rothschild, who had moved to Israel two years earlier, believed the country needed a professional modern dance company with full-scale sets and costumes and thorough training. She sent several dancers to New York to work with Graham, who agreed to be Batsheva's artistic adviser, and Graham sent dancers to Israel to work with the new company.
        Internationally known choreographers like Jerome Robbins and Jose Limon went to work with Batsheva, and the troupe toured extensively in the United States, Europe and Asia. Baroness de Rothschild went on to form a second, more balletically based group, the Bat-Dor Dance Company, in 1967. She withdrew her support from Batsheva in 1974 after the company refused to hire as its director Jeannette Ordman, her protegee and the head of Bat-Dor.
        Though she never became an Israeli citizen, she remained immensely loyal to the nation, working as a driver after her car was mobilized during the 1973 war. She supported many Israeli causes through her foundation, giving money to hundreds of emigre scientists and providing housing for new arrivals and loans to the poor in Tel Aviv.
        She supported the establishment of the Center for Dance Medicine, the Chamber Music Association, the Chamber Ensemble and the Batsheva Crafts Corporation. She also established the Batsheva Foundation for the Advancement of Science in Israel, an endowed fund of the Israel Academy for Science and Humanities. She was the author of a French book on modern dance, ''La Danse Artistique aux U.S.A.''
        Baroness de Rothschild is survived by a brother, Guy, of Paris, and a sister, Jacqueline Piatigorsky of Los Angeles.
        She received the Israel Prize in 1989 and was honored in 1997 at a celebration of the 30th anniversary of the Bat-Dor Dance Company at the new Tel Aviv House. Those paying tribute included Roni Milo, the Mayor of Tel Aviv, and the choreographers Merce Cunningham and Paul Taylor.
        Throughout her life the Baroness fascinated people with her innocent grandeur. Graham long remembered an exchange she had with the baroness after they visited the august Rothschild Bank in Paris.
        ''It was unlike any bank I had ever seen,'' Graham wrote in her autobiography ''Blood Memory.'' ''No real tellers, no depositors that I could see.
        '' 'Bethsabee, where are the depositors?'
        '' 'Depositors?'
        ''Bethsabee had evidently never been asked that question before.
        '' 'We don't really encourage depositors, but yes, we do have one now . . . the Pope.' ''
        Correction:  April 23, 1999, Friday  An obituary of Baroness Batsheva de Rothschild yesterday misstated her relationship to Baron James de Rothschild. She was his great-granddaughter, not his granddaughter.
      