
        Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, who transformed it from a tired magazine into a viable voice in fashion while she battled ovarian cancer and raised awareness of the disease, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 51 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.
        Ms. Tilberis was highly respected for her ability as an editor, her warmth and her good humor in the face of debilitating treatments to halt the spread of the cancer that ultimately took her life. While hospitalized in December 1993 and again in the summer of 1995, she oversaw each issue of the monthly magazine, which she had taken over in February 1992. Until just a few days before her death, she was working on the June issue.
        When Hearst Magazines, which publishes the 132-year-old Harper's Bazaar, hired Ms. Tilberis away from her job as editor in chief of British Vogue, it created a sensation in fashion magazine circles. She became the third reigning British editor of an important New York magazine, following Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, and Tina Brown, who was then the editor in chief of Vanity Fair and later became the editor of The New Yorker and is now developing Talk magazine.
        The fashion world was abuzz with gossip on two topics: speculation that Hearst was paying Ms. Tilberis an annual salary of $1.25 million (never confirmed or denied) and anticipation of a rivalry between Ms. Tilberis and Ms. Wintour, her predecessor at British Vogue, who had recommended Ms. Tilberis as her replacement there. (No outward signs of either hostility or warmth were seen in the years they competed in New York.)
        Ms. Tilberis's aim when she took over Harper's Bazaar, she said, was to make it ''the most beautiful fashion magazine in the world.'' She hired talented stylists and famous photographers and brought in Fabien Baron to redesign the look of the magazine. Under his art direction, it developed a strong graphics style,  which was widely copied.
        The first issue under Ms. Tilberis's direction, September 1992, had a stunning cover shot by Patrick Demarchelier of the model Linda Evangelista in a stark black dress against a white background with no other headline on the cover than ''Enter the Era of Elegance.'' It was a startling contrast to the usual fashion magazine cover with multiple headlines in different colors. Subsequent issues added text lines and color and eventually looked more like other fashion publications. An exception was this year's February cover of Madonna, also photographed by Mr. Demarchelier, in striking black and red.
        Industry reaction to the first change in the magazine was mixed. Some saw it as coolly elegant. Others thought it boring and lifeless. But it won awards, including two National Magazine Awards in 1993.
        In 1994, Ms. Tilberis was named editor of the year by Advertising Age and received an award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which was presented to her by Diana, the Princess of Wales. The two women became friends in London, where the Princess of Wales often dropped by the offices of British Vogue and also appeared on its cover twice while Ms. Tilberis was editor. The Princess was also twice on the cover of Harper's Bazaar under Ms. Tilberis's editorship, once during her lifetime and once posthumously.
        The September 1994 issue of Harper's Bazaar contained an informative article by Aimee Lee Ball, ''Ovarian Cancer: One Woman's Fight,'' in which Ms. Tilberis linked her use of fertility drugs in the late 1970's to the ovarian cancer that was diagnosed in December 1993. The fertility treatments were unsuccessful. The article described the disease and its treatment, which included nine weeks of chemotherapy, which caused Ms. Tilberis to lose 30 pounds.
        In another article in the magazine, in May 1996, Ms. Tilberis described in diary form a bone-marrow transplant she underwent the previous summer to eradicate vestiges of the cancer. In both articles, she chose to find something positive to say about her illness: she had gone from a size 14 to a fashionable size 6 and was pleased that her silver hair was as flattering in its new short length as it had been as a chin-length bob.
        She also discussed her battle with the disease in ''No Time to Die,'' a memoir written with Ms. Ball and published last year by Little, Brown. In 1997, Ms. Tilberis became president of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund.
        Elizabeth Kelly Tilberis was born Sept. 7, 1947 in Alderley Edge, a village outside of Manchester, England, to Jane and Thomas Stuart-Black Kelly. Her father was an eye surgeon, who was a pioneer in laser retinal detachment surgery and in developing soft contact lenses in the 1960's.
        She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in fashion design from Leicester Polytechnic, a British school comparable to New York's Fashion Institute of Technology. It was there that she met her future husband, Andrew Tilberis, an artist, who was her tutor. She and her husband later adopted two children, Robert, now 17, and Christopher, 14.
        In addition to her husband and sons, she is survived by her relatives in England: her mother, of Bath; her sister, Lois Stuart-Black of London, and her brother, Dr. Grant Kelly of West Sussex. Following her graduation in 1970, Ms. Tilberis went to British Vogue as a fashion assistant and worked her way to the top, becoming editor in chief in 1987.
        Ms. Tilberis was active on the New York charity social scene, serving as chairwoman of benefits for causes like pediatric AIDS, the New York City Ballet and the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        She was scheduled to receive a Humanitarian Award in June from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which will now be given posthumously, said Fern Mallis, the council's executive director. ''We are pleased that the award was announced earlier and not something added after her death,'' Ms. Mallis said yesterday.
        Despite Ms. Tilberis's personal popularity and the publicity her tenure brought to the magazine, Harper's Bazaar never ousted Vogue from its pinnacle as the fashion publication with the largest circulation and the most advertising pages. As time went by under her editorship, the magazine lost some of its specialness and began to look more like other fashion publications. It also lost some high-profile editors and photographers to other magazines.
        Unfazed, Ms. Tilberis pronounced herself pleased with the magazine in an interview in 1995. ''I think we made the niche we wanted to make, and I think we are the elegant fashion magazine I wanted to create,'' she said.
        In an interview published last year in The Times, Ms. Tilberis discussed the stark contrast between her glamorous job and her illness: ''You can live in the fashion world and go to fashion shows and have your picture taken, et cetera, et cetera. But there's an important balance with what really goes on in life, which is sickness and suffering and people dying. Prior to having cancer, I didn't realize there was this whole different world. It's a great wake-up call.''
      