
        Patricia Bowman, a founding member of American Ballet Theater, a ballerina of the Radio City Music Hall and the first American ballerina to win critical acclaim and wide popularity as a classical and a musical-theater dancer, died on March 18 in Las Vegas, Nev., her home since 1977. She was believed to be in her early to mid 90's.
        A link between two eras of dance, Ms. Bowman began her career when there were no major American ballet companies. She performed on Broadway and in the elaborate live shows offered at motion-picture palaces of the 1920's and 30's. Her sparkling stage personality won her many fans. Yet when American ballet companies began to flourish, she gave authoritative performances in some of the great classics.
        A native of Washington, Ms. Bowman studied with various teachers there and in New York and Europe. She became a protegee of Michel Fokine, the Russian ballet choreographer of ''Les Sylphides,'' ''Petrouchka'' and other works, who settled in New York in 1923. Fokine choreographed solos for her, among them ''Tennis,'' a witty sketch she offered in vaudeville shows and as a guest artist with ballet troupes.
        Ms. Bowman made her New York debut in the 1920 edition of the revue ''George White's Scandals.'' For many years, she went back and forth between dance forms, touring with the Fokine Ballet, forming a ballroom dance team with Tony de Marco, appearing in pioneering television productions in 1931 and 1939 and serving as ballerina of the Roxy Theater. When Radio City Music Hall opened in 1932, she was appointed its prima ballerina and she continued to perform there occasionally until the early 1950's. She also appeared in the ''Ziegfeld Follies'' of 1934 and with the Mordkin Ballet in 1938.
        During the first season of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) in 1940, she starred in ''Swan Lake,'' ''Giselle,'' ''Les Sylphides'' and other works. Reviewing Ms. Bowman in ''Giselle,'' John Martin wrote in The New York Times that ''besides dancing with complete authority she achieves a dramatic credibility in the difficult first act that very few Giselles can match.'' She returned as guest artist during Ballet Theater's 15th-anniversary season in 1955 and was partnered by Erik Bruhn in ''Les Sylphides.''
        After leaving Ballet Theater in 1941, she appeared on Broadway in ''Rhapsody'' in 1944, performed nationwide with opera companies and was a guest dancer at orchestral concerts. She was hostess for the ''Patricia Bowman Show,'' a 13-week CBS television series in 1951. Ms. Bowman directed a ballet school in New York from 1957 until 1977, when she married Albert Kaye and moved to Las Vegas, where she served as a consultant to local dance groups.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      