
        Dr. Rose Payne, whose research into tissue compatibility at Stanford University over more than three decades helped advance the field of organ transplants, died on April 18 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 89 and had been living in Cupertino, Calif.
        Dr. Payne, an expert in tissue-typing, was credited with helping identify proteins that play an important role in how well patients accept a graft of tissue, or a blood transfusion, from another person. The proteins, part of the human leukocyte antigen system, may also lend insights into why some people are more susceptible than others to a range of autoimmune diseases, including diabetes and arthritis.
        Before the work of Dr. Payne and other scientists who studied the proteins, doctors who transplanted organs had to base their determination of compatibility only on whether the donor and recipient had the same blood type.
        Rose Payne was born on Aug. 5, 1909, in Lake Bay, Wash. She attended the University of Washington, where in 1937 she earned a doctorate in bacteriology.
        She was hired by Stanford as a research assistant after World War II, one of the few women there at the time. A new career began when Dr. Payne, in her mid-40's, was encouraged by a new administration to pursue her own studies.
        She began focusing on leukocytes, trying to establish what caused incompatibility problems.
        In 1972, Stanford named Dr. Payne a professor of medicine. Three years later, her status changed again, to professor emerita.
        In 1984, the American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics named an award in her honor.
        In an interview posted on the society's Web site, Dr. Payne recalled what led up to her appointment as professor.
        ''I had never asked for anything,'' she said. ''Then, one day, I decided I was old enough and established enough. So I marched right in and asked.''
        Dr. Payne, who is survived by a sister, Violet Russell of Seattle, and a nephew, said that, in the end, the appointment did not change her life. ''I already had an international reputation and had done what I wanted to do.''
      