
        Lois Borwick Herman Rivkin, the founder and president of an organization linking business organizations and cultural institutions to New York City public schools, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 69.
        Mrs. Rivkin had lymphoma for the last six and a half years, her husband, Donald H. Rivkin, said. Though she had undergone eight courses of painful chemotherapy, she continued her work for the organization, Friends of the Public Schools, until early this year.
        Rudy Crew, the New York City Schools Chancellor, noted that during her illness, she displayed the same energy she had shown in 1988 when she founded the organization that sought to introduce public school students to the city's cultural and business communities and vice versa. ''After each hospitalization, she would reappear regularly in my office and in so many classrooms that indeed, she seemed to be everywhere,'' said Dr. Crew. ''Children were Lois Rivkin's reason to live.''
        The idea for Friends of the Public Schools grew out of volunteer work Mrs. Rivkin did in promoting the city's lesser-known cultural attractions during the Statue of Liberty centennial in 1986. At that time she organized a group called the View From the Torch, which produced maps and treasure hunts to spotlight hundreds of museums, libraries, parks and cultural sites in all five boroughs.
        Though she was born in Denver and attended Goucher College in Baltimore, she arrived in New York in 1952 to work for the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and very quickly became what her husband described as ''the most passionate of New Yorkers.'' Her involvement with the View From the Torch project convinced her that there was very little interaction between business and arts communities and the public schools. She committed herself to establishing such ties, certain that they would enrich the entire city.
        Among its initiatives, Friends of the Public Schools has organized an annual display of art by public school students at Sotheby's. It has arranged to have student chefs cater corporate conferences and civic observances and for students to present choral and instrumental concerts throughout the city.
        Mrs. Rivkin was also a founder of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and in 1976 she served as the coordinator of volunteers at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
        In addition to her husband of 45 years, she is survived by two sons, David of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Daniel of Paris; a daughter, Judith Davison of New York; a brother, Harry H. Herman of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
        She had received a number of honors including citations from the city and the Board of Education. On Feb. 16, the Citizens Committee for New York City presented her with a special New Yorker for New York Award. Some 1,200 people turned out that night, and one of the attendees  noted how vital Mrs. Rivkin appeared despite her illness. ''She even danced,'' he said.
      