
        Melba Liston, a trombonist and arranger who worked with some of the best bands in jazz, died on Friday after a series of strokes, said a friend, the pianist Randy Weston. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Liston is best known for her collaborations with Mr. Weston, including the ambitious African-influenced works ''High Life'' and ''Uhuru Afrika'' from the early 1960's. On those albums she created dense harmonies to place over the percussion that Mr. Weston was using. She made his pieces, often harmonically simple, thick with dissonances and meaning.
        Ms. Liston stopped playing in 1985 after a stroke left her partially paralyzed, but she continued to arrange music with Mr. Weston. Their collaboration continued into the 1990's, and included work on Mr. Weston's ''Spirits of Our Ancestors'' (1992) and ''Volcano Blues'' (1993).
        Ms. Liston came to prominence in jazz in 1943, when she joined the arranger and composer Gerald Wilson's band in Los Angeles. She recorded with the tenor saxophonist Dexter Gordon in 1947 (he dedicated the tune ''Mischievous Lady'' to her) and a year later she began working with Dizzy Gillespie and his orchestra. In 1957 she took what might be her most famous improvisation on record, on Gillespie's ''Cool Breeze,'' from ''Dizzy Gillespie at Newport.''
        A few years earlier she had dropped out of music, working in clerical jobs and as a film extra. She had small parts in ''The Prodigal''and ''The 10 Commandments.''
        When she returned to music she worked with Gillespie and with Quincy Jones, who was the music director of the television show ''Free and Easy.'' In the 1960's she worked with Mr. Weston, and during the 1970's she taught in Jamaica at the University of the West Indies and the Jamaica Institute of Music. She returned to the United States in the early 1980's.
        Her later work for Mr. Weston is as dramatic as her early pieces, and on ''Volcano Blues'' she produces some shocking orchestral colors. At one of Mr. Weston's concerts at the Brooklyn Academy of Music last year, her presence brought the audience to its feet.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      