
        Lucille Lortel, whose pioneering efforts to bring innovative theater and adventurous new playwrights and actors to the American stage earned her the title Queen of Off Broadway, died on Sunday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 98 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport, Conn.
        Among the legacies of Miss Lortel's cutting-edge career, which spanned more than 70 years, is the theater that bears her name in Greenwich Village; the still thriving White Barn Theater that she started in Westport in 1947; the Lucille Lortel Room at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center, and the funds and fellowships she established to aid the arts. She also leaves a veritable Who's Who of people in international theater -- playwrights, actors, directors, composers and designers -- whose careers were advanced by her daring and her confidence in young talent.
        ''If you love the theater you must be innovative,'' she once said. ''You must try new ideas and new faces. That's the only way theater can develop. You can't do it on Broadway because it costs too much. The costs are lower Off Broadway, so you can afford to take a chance, and you must take a chance.''
        Forsaking the Footlights For a Backstage Role
        Miss Lortel gave up a career as an actress in 1939 in deference to her wealthy husband's wishes and in 1947 began an experimental summer theater for American and foreign plays and playwrights in the barn of the couple's summer estate in Westport. From the start she wanted White Barn, as she called it, to be a sanctuary from commercial pressures, a place where writers could take a chance with their plays and where actors could stretch their talents. It was there that Miss Lortel staged readings, mothered performers like Eva Marie Saint, Geoffrey Holder and Zero Mostel and presented plays by Samuel Beckett, Edward Albee, Eugene Ionesco and Sean O'Casey.
        In 1955 her husband, Louis Schweitzer, gave her a Manhattan theater, now known as the Lucille Lortel Theater, as a 24th wedding anniversary gift. The first production in the house, at 121 Christopher Street, then called the Theater de Lys, was Marc Blitzstein's adaptation of Bertolt Brecht's and Kurt Weill's ''Threepenny Opera. '' It caused such a sensation that the production ran for seven years and put Off Broadway on the map.
        As Stuart W. Little observed in his 1972 book ''Off Broadway: The Prophetic Theater'': ''For thousands of theatergoers, a visit to the de Lys was the authentic Off Broadway experience. Off Broadway meant the discovery of new talent and fresh theatrical experiences in unfamiliar parts of the city. . . .The de Lys at the far end of Christopher Street, near the Hudson River docks, was situated in a borderline neighborhood between the known residential part of the city and the open seaport. The unknown world beyond, in imagination, merged with the pulsing underworld life of 'The Threepenny Opera' and became sinister, exotic, menacing.''
        Miss Lortel was frustrated by the success of ''Threepenny Opera'' because she wanted to bring more plays into her theater, so she  persuaded the American National Theater and Academy to support a matinee series as a ''laboratory for innovation.'' The series ran for 20 years and became a legend. A verse adaptation of Alan Paton's novel ''Cry the Beloved Country'' became the first venture of the series in 1956, followed that  season by such groundbreaking productions as Anna Sokolow's Kafkaesque dance-drama ''Metamorphosis'' and May O'Donnell's modern-dance interpretation of Maeterlinck's play ''Pelleas and Melisandre.''
        Over the years the series offered ''Shakespeare in Harlem,'' a dramatization of Langston Hughes poems with Godfrey Cambridge; adaptations of poetic works by Robert Frost, Archibald MacLeish, W. H. Auden and Conrad Aiken; performances of rarely seen plays by O'Casey, Ionesco, Tennessee Williams, Albee and William Inge, and presented actors like Richard Burton in ''An Afternoon of Poetry,'' Siobhan McKenna as Hamlet, Helen Hayes in an anthology of Shakespeare and Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis Casson in a joint dramatic reading. Terrence McNally and Adrienne Kennedy were among the new writers whose works were presented.
        She brought Jean Genet to the attention of American audiences with a production of ''The Balcony,'' which she co-produced at Circle in the Square in 1960. She also oversaw the first American production of a play by Athol Fugard, the South African playwright; it was ''Blood Knot,'' starring James Earl Jones and J. D. Cannon, and it ignited audiences at the Cricket Theater on Second Avenue in 1964. She introduced many plays by Beckett, including ''Rockaby,'' on Theater Row on West 42d Street.
        Creating a Setting For Cutting-Edge Work
        At the Theater de Lys, she provided a home for such plays as David Mamet's ''A Life in the Theater,'' Sam Shepard's ''Buried Child'' and ''Getting Out,'' early work by Marsha Norman, Caryl Churchill's ''Cloud Nine'' and Wendy Wasserstein's ''Isn't It Romantic.'' The house was renamed the Lucille Lortel Theater in 1981, and has been the setting for Larry Kramer's ''The Destiny of Me,'' for ''Groucho'' and for ''Gertrude Stein and a Companion,'' the recipient of the National Education Film and Video Award for historical biographies.
        The 38th volume of John Willis's ''Theater World'' (1981-82) is dedicated ''To Lucille Lortel, whose vibrant spirit and untiring efforts have made immeasurable contributions to all components of the theater by discovering and encouraging new talent, and whose devotion to Off Broadway provided the impetus for its proliferation.''
        In 1960 Miss Lortel began sponsoring dramatic productions and seminars at the Library of Congress. The presentations included O'Casey's ''Time to Go,'' Mark Van Doren's ''Last Days of Lincoln'' and Albee's ''Fam and Yam.''
        Miss Lortel produced or co-produced some 500 plays, 5 of which were nominated for Tony Awards -- ''As Is'' by William M. Hoffman, ''Angels Fall'' by Lanford Wilson, ''Blood Knot'' by Mr. Fugard, ''Sarafina!,'' an import from South Africa, and ''A Walk in the Woods'' by Lee Blessing. Several were produced in Broadway theaters and the others moved to Broadway.
        The theater on Christopher Street was only one of many unusual gifts that Mr. Schweitzer lavished on Miss Lortel before his death in 1971. A chemical engineer who made his fortune manufacturing cigarette papers, he also owned the FM radio station WBAI.
        In 1957, when his wife told him it was sometimes difficult to find a cab after the theater, he bought a gray Mercedes-Benz. He had been told there was a cab driver named Louis Schweitzer in town and he arranged to get a taxi medallion for the car and for his namesake to act as its part-time driver. When the driver wasn't transporting  Miss Lortel, he was free to use the car as a taxi and split the earnings with the boss.
        In 1956, Mr. Schweitzer was the first foreigner in more than 400 years allowed to buy a gondola in Venice. Although traditionally gondolas were identified only by numbers, he was given permission to name his purchase ''Lucille.'' The gondola continued to carry passengers and the gondolier was told that if American visitors used Mr. Schweitzer's name to book a ride, they were to be charged double. ''My friends can afford it,'' he explained.
        For some years, the Schweitzers spent part of each winter on a houseboat in Florida. The two-story villa on a raft, anchored off Miami Beach, had two bedrooms, a kitchen, living room, servants' quarters and a bar sheltered by a thatched roof.
        Lucille Lortel was born in Manhattan on Dec. 16, 1900, the daughter of Harry and Anna Wadler. Lucille was her given name, Lortel an alliterative concoction for the stage. Her father was a manufacturer of women's clothes and frequently traveled to Europe to buy designs that he would copy. For some years, Miss Lortel was tutored at home and although she said, ''I think I went to public school after that,'' she did remember that she never graduated. She attended Adelphi College briefly and studied at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. A 1921 review in ''The Musical Leader'' of her  graduating class's production of D'Annunzio's ''Honeysuckle'' described her as ''an exquisite little creature who seemed to be inspired.'' Later, she studied briefly with Max Reinhardt in Berlin.
        Miss Lortel made her Broadway debut in 1925 in the Theater Guild production of George Bernard Shaw's ''Caesar and Cleopatra'' with Helen Hayes as Cleopatra and Lionel Atwill as Caesar. She had a small role, which she said had been added by the director, playing what she described as a whore. She never forgot her unwhorelike lines: ''No no, no, I'll have nothing to do with you,'' addressed to the line of men following her.
        She met Mr. Schweitzer in 1930. ''I wasn't interested in getting married,'' she recalled. ''I was involved in the theater.'' Mr. Schweitzer pursued her. During a business trip to France he telephoned and told her he was sending a ticket and that they would get married in Paris. Friends persuaded her to accept -- ''You can always get a divorce,'' they said.
        When she arrived in March 1931, the couple discovered that official proclamations of their intended marriage had to be posted for several weeks before the marriage could take place. They sailed back to the United States on the Leviathan and were married by the captain. ''I wouldn't have anything to do with my husband until we came back to New York,'' she said, and even then she waited for two more ceremonies,  one at City Hall and a religious service in Manhattan performed by the Jewish chaplain at West Point.
        The year after her marriage, Miss Lortel appeared on stage with Jean Arthur and Claude Rains in ''The Man Who Reclaimed His Head,'' but her husband objected to her absence in the evenings. His unhappiness led to a new activity that continued until 1939 -- acting in movie shorts filmed in Brooklyn in the afternoons. This was followed by a temporary retirement.
        ''My husband's mother disapproved of acting, and he was very possessive,'' Miss Lortel said in a 1996 interview. ''After a while, I was getting bored. I thought I'd go nuts so I started readings at Westport, moving the tractors and Ping-Pong table from the barn.''
        From a White Barn To Off Broadway
        In 1947 Miss Lortel was approached by the actor Canada Lee and Philip Huston, a playwright, who needed a place and a distinguished audience for a staged reading of a new play called ''The Painted Wagon.'' Miss Lortel provided both. This was followed by a request from the agent Audrey Wood, who wanted a showcase for a musical, ''No Casting Today.'' Thus the White Barn was opened with Miss Lortel as its sole backer and hostess, providing room and board for the actors.
        She had a permanent stage built, brought in new and innovative troupes like the Dublin Players Company, the Oxford University Players and Mr. Holder and his Trinidad Dance Troupe, established an apprentice school, introduced seminars in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, and offered playwrights, actors, designers, composers and directors a chance to spread their wings.
        ''When the White Barn began, it was to summer theater what Off Broadway is to the commercial theater,'' the actress and producer Eva Le Gallienneonce said. ''An avowed pioneer, it proved that summer productions could be stimulating, avant-garde and enthusiastically received.''
        Nurturing Newcomers And Seasoned Actors
        Among the newcomers who got a chance at the White Barn were Peter Falk, Vincent Gardenia, Sada Thompson, George Peppard and Sidney Lumet. Working with them were more established actors seeking challenges  -- Mildred Dunnock, Mr. Mostel, Kim Hunter, James Coco and Peggy Wood.
        Mr. Schweitzer initially enjoyed his wife's new enthusiasm and the idea of having actors around the estate in the summer. Later, his enthusiasm waned and although he continued to support her endeavors, it wasn't until his later years that his interest revived.
        Miss Lortel was showered with virtually every theatrical award and honor except a Tony, which is given for achievement on Broadway. She received the first Margo Jones Award (1962) and the Lee Strasberg Lifetime Achievement Award (1985), as well as induction into the Theater Hall of Fame (1990) and recognition from the School of the Arts at Columbia University (1996). The first theater chair to be named for a woman bears her name, the Lucille Lortel Distinguished Professorial Chair in Theater at the City University of New York. A permanent tribute to her career is on display at the archives of the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. The Lucille Lortel Theater Collection, an archive of theatrical history and memorabilia, is on permanent exhibition at the Westport Public Library.
        In 1986, the Lucille Lortel Awards were established by the League of Off Broadway Theaters and Producers to honor outstanding achievements in the Off Broadway theater. Recipients have included the playwright A. R. Gurney, for ''The Cocktail Hour''; John Tillinger, the director; Playwrights Horizons, and Lincoln Center Theater for ''Woza Afrika!''
        Miss Lortel, who leaves no immediate survivors, was a generous donor in other theatrical areas. She established the Lucille Lortel Fund for New Drama at Yale University to support the production of new plays at the Yale Repertory Theater (the fund's premiere production was August Wilson's ''Fences''). The Lucille Lortel Fellowship in Playwriting was started at Brown University in Providence, R.I., in 1996. She also donated money for the annual Drama Circle awards and made sizable financial contributions to dance and music groups.
        ''Honey, I've got a one-track mind and it's theater, theater, theater,'' she once said. ''I have no time for anything else.''
        One of Miss Lortel's favorite possessions in her memento-filled midtown apartment at the Sherry-Netherland Hotel, where she lived after her husband's death, was a box covered with notices of plays she had produced. The lid opened to the sound of applause and a voice calling out ''More! More!''
        Circulating in a milieu where youth often takes the starring role, she frequently sidestepped the matter of age by saying ''age is a number and mine is unlisted.'' When a gossip column last year reported that Miss Lortel would soon celebrate her 98th birthday, Blanche Marvin, a friend, reported that she was furious.
        ''This will kill my love life,'' she said.
      