
        Mary Jane Rathbun, who became known as the grandmotherly Brownie Mary who handed out brownies laced with high-grade marijuana to sick people to relieve their pain and nausea, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 77 and lived in San Francisco.
        Ms. Rathbun campaigned on the local, state and national level to legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes. She baked the brownies in the small kitchen of her home in a housing project for the elderly in the largely gay Castro neighborhood of San Francisco. She called them ''original recipe brownies'' and ''magically delicious.'' In one raid on her home in 1981, the police confiscated 54 dozen of them, along with more than 18 pounds of the marijuana, donated by growers.
        Ms. Rathbun was arrested three times and was ordered to perform hundreds of hours of community service, which she spent with AIDS patients. Her base of operations in the early years of the AIDS epidemic was San Francisco General Hospital. Working as a volunteer for some 10 years, she devoted untold hours to help care for ''her kids,'' as the patients came to be known.
        Her role as a baker was but a small part of her activities. She became a San Francisco fixture for whom the city fathers proclaimed an official Brownie Mary Day in 1992 to honor her work with dying patients in the AIDS ward.
        With Dennis Peron, a longtime comrade and prominent marijuana advocate, she published ''Brownie Mary's Marijuana Cookbook and Dennis Peron's Recipe for Social Change,'' which did not include the brownie recipe. They also founded the San Francisco Cannabis Buyers Club, which is now defunct.
        Her first arrest on marijuana charges and a judge's order to perform community service prompted Ms. Rathbun to join the Shanti project, one of the first AIDS support groups. The court action led to ''Free Brownie Mary'' groups, but two more arrests for marijuana possession went unprosecuted.
        Mary Jane Rathbun was born in Minnesota and grew up in Chicago.  She settled in San Francisco in World War II, briefly married and had a daughter who died in a car accident. There are no immediate survivors.
        By the mid-1990's, Ms. Rathbun could no longer bake because of arthritis and other ailments that kept her in constant pain. She had two artificial knees and, she said, only her own sweet medicine enabled her to walk at all.
        Her campaigns and arrests helped build support for the 1996 California State initiative that made the use of marijuana conditionally legal. The measure allowed use with a doctor's consent for patients suffering from AIDS, cancer and certain other serious conditions whose symptoms are said to be alleviated by the drug.
        But the law has led to numerous skirmishes between advocates of marijuana and local and the Federal authorities who say that a voter initiative cannot override a Federal ban on marijuana.
      