
        Estelle Sapir, a Holocaust survivor who won a rare recovery of the family funds she had sought for half a century from a Swiss bank, died on Tuesday at her home in Far Rockaway, Queens. She was 73.
        Miss Sapir, who had been in poor health for some time, died of cardiac arrest, her niece Jeannette Bernstein said.
        In 1996, Miss Sapir became the lead plaintiff in a class-action lawsuit involving thousands of Holocaust survivors who sought to recover deposits made by their families in Swiss banks.
        Testifying before a Senate committee, Miss Sapir became a symbol of the movement to recover these deposits.
        After years of denying Miss Sapir's claims that Credit Suisse, a major Swiss bank, was holding a fortune deposited by her father shortly before he died in a concentration camp, last year the bank joined Miss Sapir in announcing that her case had been settled.
        Under the terms of a confidentiality agreement, neither party would say how much money was involved, but Swiss news organizations reported the figure to be $500,000.
        Credit Suisse said the case set no precedents, but it appears to be the first instance in which a Swiss bank has not insisted that a claimant provide the death certificate of a Holocaust victim who made deposits. Such a requirement, the claimants have long argued, is impossible to satisfy, because the Nazis kept very few records of those who died in concentration camps.
        The Sapir family fortune, the precise amount of which has never been determined, was deposited in several banks before the war by Miss Sapir's father, Jozef Sapir, a Jewish businessman from Poland.
        Shortly before Mr. Sapir was sent to the Nazi concentration camp at Majdanek, Poland, Miss Sapir said, she was able to speak with him through barbed wire in a detention camp in Southern France.
        ''You have to survive,'' she said he told her. ''You'll be O.K., because there's money in the bank.''
        He then drilled her repeatedly on the names of the banks where he had spread out assets accumulated from several businesses.
        After the war, during which Miss Sapir worked for the French underground, she visited a number of banks in England and France where her father had told her he had left part of his money. The bank accounts were turned over to her without question, she said.
        But the Geneva branch of Credit Suisse, saw things differently.
        When Miss Sapir asked to collect the money in 1946, the bank manager demanded that she provide her father's death certificate and records of his deposits.
        Miss Sapir said that her father's financial records had been lost in the chaos of the war and that there was no death certificate. Credit Suisse  persisted in its demands for documentation.
        Miss Sapir never gave up.
        ''I felt that my father was always behind me and with me,'' she said after her lawsuit was settled last year. ''When I die and go to heaven, I will see him and say, 'I accomplished it.' ''
        Recently, Credit Suisse found a record of a depositor named J. Sapir, which seemed to confirm that Miss Sapir's father had held an account at the bank.
        At that point, the bank entered into serious negotiations with Miss Sapir, and she agreed to accept a payment in exchange for withdrawing from the class-action suit against the three major Swiss commercial banks -- Credit Suisse, Union Bank of Switzerland and the Swiss Bank Corporation.
        In announcing the agreement, Credit Suisse suggested that it had settled the case in the absence of direct evidence of how much money Jozef Sapir might have deposited.
        ''We found a sufficient basis in the facts, combined with our concern with Miss Sapir, to arrive at today's settlement,'' said Bob O'Brien, the managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston.
        Miss Sapir, who was born in Poland, moved to the United States about 30 years ago, her niece said.
        In addition to Ms. Bernstein, Miss Sapir is survived by two other nieces, a nephew and several great-nieces and great-nephews. She never married.
      