
        Maria Stader, a soprano who was best known for the elegance of her Mozart performances, died on Tuesday in Zurich, The Associated Press reported. She was 87 and lived in Zurich.
        Ms. Stader made several operatic appearances, most notably as the Queen of the Night in a Covent Garden staging of Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' a work she also recorded with Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Ernst Haefliger. She also made a highly praised recording of Gluck's ''Orfeo ed Euridice.'' But she generally preferred the concert repertory.
        Mozart's florid ''Exsultate, Jubilate'' was a particular specialty, and she performed it frequently in New York. It was the vehicle for her New York debut in 1954, as a soloist with the Little Orchestra Society, and she sang it with the New York Philharmonic (under George Szell) in 1964 and at the first Mostly Mozart Festival in 1966. Her performances of Mozart concert arias and her solos in the composer's Masses were also highly regarded. In addition to Mozart, Ms. Stader's repertory included works of Alessandro Scarlatti, Gluck, Bruckner and Mahler.
        Ms. Stader was born in Budapest in 1911, but was reared in Switzerland by adoptive parents after she was orphaned during World War I. She began her musical studies in Zurich, and continued them with Hans Keller in Karlsruhe, Germany, and with teachers in Milan and New York. When she won the Geneva International Competition in 1939, the prize was to have included performances in Europe. The tour was canceled after the outbreak of World War II. Ms. Stader remained in Switzerland and finally began her international career in the late 1940's. In 1950 and 1965 she was awarded the Lilli Lehmann Medal for outstanding artistic achievement by the Salzburg Mozarteum.
        When she retired from the concert stage in 1969 -- her farewell performance was as a soloist in the Mozart Requiem in New York -- she was still in superb vocal form, but told interviewers that she preferred to leave the stage before she began reading that her voice was not what it was. She was by then married to Hans Erismann, with whom she had two sons.
        After she stopped singing, Ms. Stader devoted herself to teaching, principally in Zurich. She wrote a book on Bach arias and an autobiography, ''Nehmt Meinen Dank'' (''Accept My Thanks'').
      