
        Alice Adams, widely admired for her deft, elegantly observed novels and short stories, died yesterday at her home in San Francisco. She was 72.
        She had been treated for heart problems earlier in the week and seemed to have died in her sleep, said her editor, Victoria Wilson.
        In 10 novels and five collections of short stories, Ms. Adams created richly textured, artfully constructed novels about women's lives that sometimes mirrored and sometimes anticipated changes in the society as a whole. Admirers particularly praised her ability to capture place and voice and the deceptively artful craft of her writing.
        Ms. Adams was born Aug. 14, 1926, in Fredericksburg, Va., grew up in Chapel Hill, N.C., was educated at Harvard, and spent most of her adult life in San Francisco, and her writing in many ways fused the seductive intimacy of the South, the intellectual sophistication of New England and the sense of adventure and openness to new experiences of the West.
        ''She was just so deft and had such a wonderful touch,'' said Ms. Wilson, her editor for 25 years at Knopf, where she published all of her short-story collections and all but one of her novels. Another novel, ''After the War,'' has been completed and will be published next year. ''She was a master at condensing so much, with so much resonance, into a short form,'' Ms. Wilson added.
        Alice Adams lived a life full of enough energy, contradiction and nuance that it would have made an apt subject for her own fiction. She was the only child of Agatha Erskine (Boyd) Adams and Nicholson Barney Adams. Her father was a Spanish professor at the University of North Carolina, her mother a frustrated writer full of unfulfilled literary aspirations. Ms. Adams described her family as ''three difficult, isolated people.''
        She graduated from high school at 15, at which point, she once said, she ''ran into trouble because of that Southern thing that women are supposed to be stupid.''
        She went to Radcliffe College, where she graduated at the age of 19 and soon married a fellow Harvard student, Mark Linenthal. The couple spent their first year together in Paris, where she soon realized the marriage was a mistake. ''I loved Paris,'' she said later, ''except I disliked him so much.''
        The couple moved to San Francisco in 1948, where she found little time to pursue her writing. Eventually the couple divorced in 1958. Struggling to raise their only son, Peter, who survives her, she began writing seriously soon after while holding a variety of bookkeeping and clerical jobs. She published her first novel, ''Careless Love,'' to mixed reviews and after years of struggling to establish herself published her first short story for The New Yorker in 1969. She became one of the magazine's most distinctive fictional voices, eventually publishing more than 25 short stories there.
        She soon established herself as a skillful, widely admired short-story writer and her second novel, ''Families and Survivors,'' the odyssey of a woman who moves from the South to San Francisco and from relationship to relationship, was published by Knopf in 1975. Reviewers either loved it or hated it, but it established her as a serious literary presence. That novel was followed by ''Listening to Billie'' in 1978 and the short-story collection ''Beautiful Girl'' in 1979. The Washington Post Book World compared the book to the work of F. Scott Fitzgerald ''in both style and subject matter.'' She had her greatest success with ''Superior Women'' in 1984, which became a best seller and traced the lives of five Radcliffe women from 1943 to 1983. Admirers saw it as fusing the sensibilities of Jane Austen and Mary McCarthy.
        Not everyone was so enamored. Some critics found her work mannered and humorless. But she became a consistent seller, who was widely admired and sometimes imitated by other writers.
        ''No one wrote better about the tangled relations of men and women or about the enduring romance of friendship,'' said Fran Kiernan, a former New Yorker editor, who edited Ms. Adams's New Yorker stories for 10 years, beginning with ''Beautiful Girl'' in 1977. ''She was a great romantic, with the highest expectations of life. As a writer, she was unfailingly wise.''
        Ms. Adams's stories have appeared in 22 O'Henry Awards collections and in several volumes of ''Best American Short Stories.'' She received an Academy and Institute Award in Literature from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Tall and striking looking, with short blond hair, turning gray, Ms. Adams was known for her sense of style as well as for her liberal politics and her wry view of life.
        Describing the difficulty of writing as one ages, she said, ''Some smart person once said that what happens is your critical standards rise, and your talent does not necessarily increase in a commensurate way.''
      