
        Sara Holmes Boutelle, an architectural historian who rediscovered Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects to achieve major success, died on Wednesday at the Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. She was 90.
        Until Ms. Boutelle published ''Julia Morgan, Architect'' (1988), little was known about Morgan (1872-1957) beyond the fact that she had designed William Randolph Hearst's spectacular California castle, San Simeon.
        Ms. Boutelle's biography, which traced Morgan's career from the turn of the century to the late 1950's, revealed that she designed nearly 800 buildings, a legacy rivaling that of Frank Lloyd Wright, her contemporary. Her accomplishment was remarkable also at a time when women were rarely able to enter the profession.
        Helen Searing, a professor of art at Smith College who knew Ms. Boutelle, said her revelations about Julia Morgan were ''indispensable because before that she was virtually unknown to all but a handful of architectural historians.''
        ''Sara Boutelle was not a feminist by today's standards and not strident at all,'' said Professor Searing, ''but she put the spotlight on women in architecture, especially on Julia Morgan.''
        Ms. Boutelle, who taught art and architecture at the Brearley School in New York, became fascinated with Morgan when she visited San Simeon in 1972 and learned that its architect was a woman she had never heard of. When Ms. Boutelle retired from Brearley the next year, she moved to Northern California and began to study the building.
        Ms. Boutelle discovered that Morgan had worked alone and destroyed most of her blueprints shortly before her death. She began reconstructing Morgan's designs from the scattered records of former clients. In 1988 Ms. Boutelle finally published her 271-page biography, an oversize book with photographs and drawings.
        Among the buildings designed by Morgan that Ms. Boutelle was able to document were the Hearst estate, Wyntoon, in Northern California; the Asilomar Y.W.C.A. conference center in Monterey, Calif., and, in Berkeley, Calif., the Women's City Club, St. John's Presbyterian Church and the Hearst Memorial Gymnasium.
        Ms. Boutelle found that Morgan also designed schools, theaters, churches, stores, hospitals, houses, apartments, a bowling alley, billard rooms, a zoo, a pet cemetery and a hay barn. She said Morgan had ''a special knack'' for swimming pools, using color, light and shape to create ''sumptuous designs that flaunted a hedonism startling for so modest an architect.''
        Reviews were favorable. Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Paul Goldberger said the book covered Morgan's career ''with sympathy and intelligence.'' Diana Ketcham, writing for The Nation, called it ''an exemplary work.''
        Publication of the Morgan biography, which won the California Book Award Silver Medal in 1989, led Ms. Boutelle to embark on a new career as a lecturer and preservationist of historic architecture. For these activities, she was made an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects in 1991, the highest award the organization gives to someone who is not an architect.
        Ms. Boutelle was educated at Mount Holyoke College, the Sorbonne and Hamburg University.
        Ms. Boutelle is survived by three sons, Christopher, of Los Angeles, William, of West Chesterfield, Mass., and Jonathan of Santa Cruz; a sister, Mary Holmes of Santa Cruz, and six grandchildren.
      