
        Margaret Wentworth Owings, a California artist and conservationist who fought for the survival of sea otters, sea lions, mountain lions and other wild creatures, died on Jan. 21 at Wild Bird, her clifftop home above the Pacific in Big Sur, Calif. She was 85.
        The cause was heart failure, reported the Monterey Bay Aquarium, which recently published a paean by her to Mother Nature.
        Mrs. Owings, a former member of the California Parks Commission, led campaigns to protect the world's forests and oceans. The National Audubon Society honored her with a medal in 1983 and last year listed her among 100 individuals who had done the most to shape the environmental movement, along with Barry Commoner, Jacques-Yves Cousteau, William O. Douglas, Lady Bird Johnson, Stewart Udall and Morris K. Udall.
        A native of Berkeley, Calif., she graduated from Mills College in 1934 and completed graduate studies in art the next year at the Fogg Museum at Harvard University. She had one-woman exhibitions of her stitchery at galleries and folk-art museums but largely set aside her art to work for conservation.
        She and her second husband, Nathaniel Alexander Owings, a founding partner of the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, fought to keep the developers away from the wild beauty of Big Sur.
        Seasonal residents of Santa Fe, N.M., they also assembled a collection of the art and Pueblo culture of the Southwest, now part of the collection of the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco.
        Mrs. Owings was the founder and first president of Friends of the Sea Otter and won a battle to end the bounty-hunting of mountain lions in her state. As a member of the Point Lobos League she was instrumental in saving the beaches between the Carmel River and Point Lobos State Preserve, near Monterey.
        She sat on the council of the Save-the-Redwoods League and the Big Sur Land Trust. She was a past trustee of Defenders of Wildlife, the African Wildlife Leadership Foundation and the Environmental Defense Fund, and a founder of the Rachel Carson Council.
        She wrote about her experiences and spent the last months of her life compiling her writings and artwork. The resulting book, ''Voice From the Sea: Reflections on Wildlife and Wilderness'' was published weeks before her death.
        Nathaniel Owings, who designed their home, Wild Bird, died in 1984.
        Mrs. Owings is survived by a daughter, Wendy M. Benjamin, of Durango, Colo., from her previous marriage to Malcolm Millard, a resident of Carmel, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Natalie O. Prael and Jennifer O. Dewey, both of Santa Fe., and Emily O. Kapozi, of Novato, Calif.; a brother, William Wentworth, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 2, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Margaret Wentworth Owings, a California conservationist, omitted the name of a surviving stepson. He is Nathaniel O. Owings of Santa Fe, N.M.
      