
        Kathleen Kellogg Meserve, an amateur horticulturist from Long Island who produced a series of hardy holly hybrids that have become standard in nurseries and gardens in the United States and Europe, died last Sunday at her home in Vero Beach, Fla. She was 93.
        Mrs. Meserve's interest in holly began shortly after World War II when she and her family moved to a 10-acre estate in St. James on Long Island and she chanced to attend a local garden-club lecture about the holly, the evergreen whose glossy, pointed leaves and clusters of red berries decorate gardens and deck the halls at Christmas.
        At that time, the hollies used for Christmas foliage were the fragile English variety, Ilex aquifolium, which were grown in the Pacific Northwest and shipped as cut greenery to the East. Mrs. Meserve decided to create a English-style holly that could withstand the harsh winters of the Northeast.
        The breakthrough came when Mrs. Meserve cross-bred Ilex rugosa, a low-growing native holly of northern Japan, with the handsome Ilex aquifolium. The results were  blue hollies, hybrids with exceptionally dark blue-green, spine-tipped foliage and excellent hardiness.
        ''I didn't foresee my success,'' she later recalled. ''I just wanted to create something that was going to give pleasure and be beautiful.''
        Blue Girl, Blue Boy, Blue Prince, Blue Princess and Blue Angel were followed by China Boy and China Girl, each with subtly different characteristics. As recently as 1997, she produced a new hybrid she called Centennial Girl.
        The profits from the sale of Mrs. Meserve's holly patents helped to  maintain her estate, which came to be called Holly-by-Golly, and her plants are sold by commercial growers throughout the world.
        When honored by the United States Patent Office in 1980 for her contributions to horticulture on the 50th anniversary of the Plant Patent Law, Mrs. Meserve said she held more plant patents than any other person in the country.
        The former Kathleen Kellogg was born in Manhattan and graduated from Miss Chandor's School. She took pleasure in telling visitors that her cultivars -- the name for varieties developed and maintained in cultivation -- had been created in a kitchen by an amateur gardener whose formal study of botany ended in the fifth grade.
        ''A professor from a leading university with a strong graduate horticulture program visited me once,'' she told an interviewer in 1978 with obvious delight. ''He told me that he was amazed at how his school spent thousands of dollars in research hoping to come up with a new strain, but that here I did it on $15.
        ''Not knowing what I was doing was an advantage,'' she said. ''Especially, at the beginning. I didn't know what could be done and what couldn't. So I just did it.''
        She once observed, ''Horticulture is the only field in which an amateur can be on the same level as an expert.''
        In 1975 the American Horticultural Society honored Mrs. Meserve for her ''outstanding contributions to amateur horticulture'' and six years later she received the Eloise Payne Luquer Medal of the Garden Club of America for her work in hybridizing  hollies and greatly extending their temperature range.
        And in 1992 the land of Christmas holly recognized her contributions when the Royal Horticultural Society of Great Britain gave her the Reginald Cory Memorial Cup.
        Her husband, F. Leighton Meserve, died in 1968. She is survived by a son, Frederick L. Meserve Jr. of Kennett Square, Pa; two daughters, Anne Davis of Winnetka, Ill., and Marcia Poutiatine of Vero Beach;  seven grandchildren and a great grandchild.
      