
        Virginia Wise Marx, an educator and psychologist who dedicated herself to the care of children and their families, died last Sunday at White Plains Hospital. She was 93 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Since the early 1930's, Mrs. Marx had been involved in community affairs and a wide array of agencies. She set up remedial programs in five school districts and helped establish Westchester County's first full-time child guidance clinic.
        More recently she devoted herself to the creation and expansion of a day care center at Westchester Community College. Now known as the Virginia Marx Children's Center, it serves nearly 100 children.
        Many of their parents are single mothers on public assistance who attend the college. She created another center at Teachers College, Columbia University, for training educators in child care.
        She and her husband, a New York developer, endowed the Virginia and Leonard Marx Professorship in Child and Parent Development and Education at Teachers College in 1993, as well the Marx Lecture Series at Teachers College. That program allows the college to give a platform to top researchers in child development. She also served on the advisory board of the Center for Infants and Parents.
        Born in St. Louis, she graduated with a degree in psychology from  Washington University, then received a master's in social work. She  earned a master's in child psychology at Teachers College and spent a fellowship year in clinical psychology at what was then its Child Guidance Institute.
        Before her marriage in 1930, she  designed children's toys for Macy's and was a contributing editor for Parents magazine. Her quarterly articles advised readers about child development.
        Among Mrs. Marx's beneficiaries were the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, where she was a trustee for over 40 years and a longtime member of its Child Development Center committee. She supported its training branch, the Selig Educational Institute, and the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, a joint undertaking with Columbia.
        Other charities included UJA-Federation of New York, White Plains Hospital Center, Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling Service, and Camp Rainbow, a UJA affiliate serving handicapped children. Her interest in American antique furniture fueled her support of the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Friends of American Art at Yale University, and the Art Museum of Sarah Lawrence College.
        Mrs. Marx is survived by her husband; their son, Leonard Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.; two daughters, Mary Lynn Bianco of Los Angeles, and Jennifer Gruenberg of Scarsdale; two sisters, Muriel Ducibella of Orange, Conn., and Jane Smith of St. Louis; a brother, Rudolph Wise Jr. of Baldwin, Mo.; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      