
        Meg Greenfield, the editor of The Washington Post's editorial page, who brought a combination of sharp-eyed analysis and wry wit to bear on a generation of the nation's policy makers and politicians, died yesterday morning at her home in Washington. She was 68.
        She died of cancer, said The Post's publisher, Donald E. Graham. The cancer had been diagnosed three years before, but not until the last six weeks did the disease sap her strength enough to silence her tart editorial voice. Her last column appeared in The Post on March 15.
        Fred Hiatt, an editorial-page colleague, said yesterday, ''When it was time for her column, no matter how her body was conspiring against her, she would summon this incredible force of will and turn out a column that the rest of us would envy.''
        In four decades as a reporter, editorialist and quietly influential opinion maker in the nation's capital, Miss Greenfield provided a stream of informed commentary that had an impact on the public perception of six Presidential administrations and scores of policy debates, ranging from affirmative action and abortion rights to the Panama Canal treaties and the Persian Gulf war. In 1978, when she was The Post's deputy editorial page editor, she was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for commentary.
        In her role as the newspaper's editorial-page editor for the last 20 years and as a columnist for Newsweek magazine for 25 years, Miss Greenfield pored over the details of policy with the passion of a political scientist and wrote of the complex architecture of democracy with reverence. She also perfected a tone of sly mockery and an eye for the absurd, both of which informed the best of her work.
        ''Meg has had a big influence,'' said Jodie Allen, who was lured into journalism by Miss Greenfield and is now a senior writer at U.S. News & World Report. ''She set the tone of debate early, before it became conventional wisdom. It's hard to see, because so many things she pioneered, like neoliberalism, are now in the water supply.''
        Though capable of a passion for social justice, she sometimes irritated the city's progressive circles with her skepticism about any government's abilities to keep fallible citizens up to some moral mark. She also arched an editorial eyebrow at what she considered blunderbuss attacks on the conservative policies of the Reagan Administration.
        A hands-on manager of both the editorial and op-ed pages of The Post, Miss Greenfield also spotted and showcased intellectual talent. Washington writers and commentators, including George Will, Michael Kinsley, Roger W. Wilkins and Charles Kraut hammer credit Miss Greenfield with starting or fast-forwarding their careers.
        Her friends and confidants were legion, including Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Alice M. Rivlin, the vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Board. Miss Greenfield's diminutive figure was a fixture in the elite dining rooms of Georgetown, where she lived near the home of her employer, who was also among her closest friends, Katharine Graham, the chairwoman of the executive committee of the Washington Post Company, which owns both The Post and Newsweek. She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
        ''Meg was unique in her mind, character, and affinity for hard work,'' Mrs. Graham said in a statement yesterday. ''She was both brilliant and funny, a writer and an editor of amazing ability. She will be missed by all those affected by her original, independent thinking, by her family, her colleagues, and her close friends.''
        As an editorialist, she was both a judge and a connoisseur of the foibles of the city's political and intellectual elites. ''Her mark was her obliqueness,'' Mr. Will said. ''Most columnists are Hemingway. She's Henry James, using understatement, nuance, indirection. It lasts better.''
        Though missing in action from the televised punditry that began to dominate the nation's political discussion in the 1980's and 1990's, Miss Greenfield wielded her influence in many other venues, from the dinner parties of the powerful to the Columbia University offices where, from 1986 to 1995, she sat in judgment on her colleagues' work as a member of the Pulitzer Prize Board.
        She also had a keen sensibility for literature, history, fact and hypocrisy, and what dose of each goes into a person's reputation. That sensibility shone through one of her last columns, ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' in which she discussed the attitude of President Clinton's supporters toward Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia.
        ''Senator Byrd was seen for a time as just another starchy, retrograde legislator, all hung up on the archaic lore of the Senate, ceaselessly spouting citations and precedents from the Constitution,'' she wrote. ''To be rude about it, as they were, they dismissed him as a bore.
        ''But when it became apparent that his inclination and his own studies were leading him not to a love of Clinton or even to a degree of political solidarity with him, let alone any sympathy for what he did, but rather to conclusions about the Constitution that would be advantageous to Clinton, all that quickly changed. Byrd became in the Clinton supporters' depiction a great Roman statesman, a man beyond reproach -- a living, walking, breathing toga.''
        Mary Ellen Greenfield -- she derived Meg from her initials -- was born on Dec. 27, 1930, in Seattle, where her father, Lewis Greenfield, ran an antiques business. She graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1952, with a major in English literature, then spent a year as a Fulbright Scholar at Cambridge University in England, specializing in William Blake's works.
        After considering an academic career, Miss Greenfield decided on journalism instead, joining The Reporter, a magazine of analysis and commentary, in 1957 as a researcher in its Washington bureau.
        After three years of largely anonymous work, she published, in the heat of the 1960 Presidential campaign between Richard M. Nixon and John F. Kennedy, a scathing intellectual profile of Mr. Nixon.
        ''Refusal to answer a question by setting up a straw man to attack instead is a not uncommon device of debating,'' she wrote. ''But in Nixon's prose the straw man emerges as more than a debating device: it is an innate feature of his thinking. Nixon apparently finds it almost impossible to make a statement that is not, in some manner, an argument. Ideas never quite exist for him until they have been pitted against something else -- an extreme danger, a radically different point of view, or a potential attack from some sinister quarter.''
        Miss Greenfield was promoted to staff writer at the magazine in 1961 and in 1965 became its Washington editor. When The Reporter shut down in 1968, Miss Greenfield became the first person hired by Philip Geyelin, the newly appointed editorial page editor of The Washington Post. One of Mr. Geyelin's early goals was to turn The Post away from the hawkish stance on the Vietnam War favored by its departing editorial page editor, J. Russell Wiggins.
        As Mr. Geyelin and Mrs. Graham recount it, Miss Greenfield paid a courtesy call on Mr. Wiggins. Afterward, the unreconstructed cold warrior said to his dovish successor: ''My boy, you're making the mistake of your life. She's on my side.''
        Few others would try to pigeonhole Miss Greenfield in the years that followed.
        A year after she arrived at The Post, Mr. Geyelin made Miss Greenfield his deputy. A decade later, she replaced him. Even though she rose to the top of her profession during the years that saw the rise of the feminist movement, Miss Greenfield kept a studied distance from it.
        Still, Miss Greenfield gleefully skewered some of the racism and sexism of the city's journalistic culture. In 1970, she solicited an op-ed article from Mr. Wilkins, a prominent black intellectual and policy analyst, about the Gridiron Dinner.
        The piece focused on the raw humor featured at the dinner, which is an annual off-the-record event that brings the city's journalistic and political elites together for assorted high jinks. ''It was a piece that really kind of blew the town apart because people were not supposed to write about the Gridiron and I wrote about how racist that particular dinner was,'' Mr. Wilkins said.
        Miss Greenfield and Mrs. Graham toured another Gridiron from the outside, trying to get a feel for the women's protests while ducking behind the dashboard of a car to avoid being seen. After the barriers fell, Miss Greenfield was a frequent guest at Gridiron dinners, attending the most recent one earlier this year.
        An avid reader of literature, Miss Greenfield studied Latin in the 1970's so she could read more classic works. She was also a perennial on the college commencement circuit, receiving honorary degrees from Smith, Georgetown University, Wesleyan University, Williams College and Princeton University.
        When she first became ill with lung cancer, Miss Greenfield returned to the region where she grew up and bought a home in the Puget Sound area. The property also allowed her more time to see her nephews and nieces. Her late brother's five children are her only remaining relatives.
        In 1980, she wrote a mock lament to the knee-jerk excesses of her chosen profession. The piece was inspired by an embarrassing mistake at The Boston Globe that let a joke headline, ''More Mush From the Wimp,'' sneak into the newspaper over an editorial about a speech by President Jimmy Carter. After 100,000 copies were on the street, it was replaced with the headline ''All Must Share the Burden.''
        ''That's the part that got us,'' Miss Greenfield wrote. ''All Must Share the Burden.'' She continued: ''Just put us in the presence of that headline and, we can't help ourselves, we start automatically and compulsively writing the editorial that goes with it. It's all about how men of good will should cease the bootless acrimony as there can be no winners in this tragic dispute and the biggest losers of all will be -- are you ready? -- well, of course, the nation's children.''
        She added: ''When the end of the world finally comes about and editorial writers are all called to judgment, it won't be the headline pranks run amok, that sort of thing, that will get us. No, it will be all those other miles of editorial prose that fit so nicely under the headline ''All Must Share the Burden'' for which we will, collectively, fry.''
      