
        Anna Sosenko, the songwriter who wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' the manager of Hildegarde -- the legendary cabaret personality who made the song famous -- and the impresario of stage specials that featured such performers as Mary Martin and Ethel Merman, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90.
        Ms. Sosenko lived, traveled and collected art with Hildegarde for 23 years, and when their partnership splintered in 1956, Ms. Sosenko went on to produce star-studded theatrical events for the benefit of the Friends of Theater and Music Collection of the Museum of the City of New York. She was the force behind tributes celebrating Joshua Logan, George Abbott, Dorothy Fields and Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II.
        ''I do this because it means that once a year I get to work with champions,'' she told The New York Times in 1979. ''I know more about stars than anyone. When I produced 'The Raleigh Room' on radio, everybody worked for me. Alan Lerner was my chief writer. I got Tallulah to sing. Do you know what the great stars were? They were mysteries. They didn't spill their guts every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. They had romance and allure. I wish we had more of that today.''
        Ms. Sosenko began collecting letters and manuscripts of theatrical and literary personalities early in her career. As the friend and colleague of many international celebrities, she was also the recipient of many such communications and eventually became a leading dealer in the field. She gave up her small shop near Lincoln Center some time before her death but continued to deal privately from her apartment.
        Ms. Sosenko donated a good part of her letter and manuscript collection  to the Library of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the theater archives of Georgia State University and Rutgers University. Her extensive archive of the business transactions of George and Ira Gershwin was acquired by the Music Division of the Library of Congress.
        Ms. Sosenko was born in Camden, N.J., on June 13, 1909, the daughter of Rebecca and Simon Sosenko. Ms. Sosenko's mother ran a restaurant, and occasionally rented rooms, and that was how the Hildegarde-Sosenko relationship began. Hildegarde was then Hildegarde Sell, the daughter of German immigrants who had left her native Milwaukee and was working as an accompanist to singers of varying luster. She rented a room from Ms. Sosenko's mother, and soon the young women became fast friends.
        Eventually, the pair made their respective ways to New York -- Hildegarde plugging some of Ms. Sosenko's songs (and not so incidentally some written by Irving Berlin). Over the course of her career, Ms. Sosenko wrote the music and lyrics for more than 15 songs, among them ''I'll Be Yours,'' ''Ask Your Heart'' and ''Why Don't They Leave Us Alone?'' and the English lyrics for ''J'attendrai.'' The idea for her most famous  song, ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' popped into her head one day, she said, when she and Hildegarde were cycling in France and got their French and English mixed up when they stopped to ask for directions.
        Ms. Sosenko created, packaged, promoted and managed Hildegarde, who became one of the most celebrated cabaret stars of 1930's and 40's. Usually billed as The Incomparable Hildegarde, an orchid bestowed on her by Walter Winchell, she was booked by Ms. Sosenko into  plush hotel cabaret rooms and supper clubs at least 45 weeks a year. At one engagement in 1946, she was paid $17,500 a week and 50 percent of the gross over $80,000. She was on the cover of Life magazine in 1939, had a Top 10 radio show and traveled with her own orchestra and several dozen pieces of luggage. Her recordings of such songs as ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' ''The Last Time I Saw Paris'' and ''Lili Marlene'' became worldwide hits. Revlon introduced a Hildegarde shade of lipstick and nail polish, a nursery named a rose for her and a linen company, picking up on the way she signed her autograph, introduced a ''Bless You'' handkerchief.
        Hildegarde's admirers ranged from enlisted men and officers during World War II to King Gustaf of Sweden and the Prince of Wales, later the Duke of Windsor.
        Ms. Sosenko and Hildegarde were equal partners. They lived in a 10-room apartment in the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan and toured Europe and America together. The two acquired an impressive art collection, selected by Ms. Sosenko. She bought works by such artists as Renoir, Manet, Mary Cassatt and Fernand Leger, and a black and white charcoal study by Grant Wood done for his ''Daughters of the American Revolution.'' The collection was sold in the mid-1950's at what was then The Parke-Bernet Galleries.
        Ms. Sosenko was also a theater archivist and historian who in 1976 mounted an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York of 75 years of the great stars who appeared on Broadway for the Shuberts -- Lillian Russell, the Barrymores, Al Jolson, Josephine Baker, the Marx Brothers.
        An intense, gregarious and outspoken woman, Ms. Sosenko was known for her business acumen and did not suffer fools, gladly or otherwise. She never hesitated to correct or contradict, and such was the force of her personality that she was rarely challenged even when, on occasion, she was wrong. She was once described as having a voice, when angry, ''that could bring back Judge Crater.''
        Ms. Sosenko, who is survived by a brother, Jay Jerome, and a sister, Ruth Goodman, both of Cherry Hill, N.J., had no false modesty.
        ''I've probably had the biggest people in show business work for me,'' Ms. Sosenko once said, referring to her benefits and the galaxy of stars she enticed to participate, among them Julie Andrews, Rex Harrison, Liza Minnelli, Sid Caesar, Natalia Makarova and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ''They know when I do a show, it's going to be a great show because I only do great things,'' she said. ''If they're not great, I'm not interested.''
        But she did have a sense of humor of sorts. No one knows why she and Hildegarde parted in the mid-1950's, but they eventually made up. Two days after she turned 85, Hildegarde was performing at the Russian Tea Room in 1991 and, of course, offered a rendition of her 1934 signature song, ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup.'' She observed that it was a song she never grew tired of singing. Ms. Sosenko, who had composed it and was one of many friends and well-wishers in the audience, brought down the house when she countered, ''But I'm tired of it.''
      