
        Elsie Widdowson, a nutritionist who used the discipline of wartime rationing to prescribe the healthiest diet in British history, died in Cambridge on June 14. She was 93.
        The diet was an experimental plan for the goverment to promote for the citizens of Britain once its imports were impeded. Dr. Widdowson wrote it with her research partner of 60 years, Dr. R. A. McCance. It was based on bread, cabbage and potatoes, all of which were in relatively plentiful supply. Though aging British people, traditionally habitues of roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, are most apt to remember the numbing taste of questionable delicacies like dried eggs, nutritionists say the lean, mean diet was the most nutritious the English ever forced down.
        But that was only a small part of the legacy of the team known as ''Mac and Elsie.'' They profoundly affected how the world assessed nutritional values, how it investigated dietary deficiencies and how mammalian development was perceived. The two researchers would from time to time starve or overfeed volunteers of different age groups to study their metabolism. Their findings in the late 1930's on the body's need for salt became a key part of care for patients in diabetic comas and those with other ailments.
        Along the way, they found time to do varied projects like studying the nutritional needs of concentration camp survivors and writing a medical journal article titled ''Food Lore From Nursery Rhymes.''
        Working on her own at age 80, Dr. Widdowson chased seals on the Labrador ice floes to study their eating habits. A decade later, she published a paper on the physiology of the newborn bear.
        Known for the twinkle in her eye, she kept generations of cats on her little farm, raised tomatoes, apples and bees, and ate lots of butter and eggs, which she considered good for people. Her sense of humor is suggested by her final advice after many an academic lecture: ''Take it with a grain of salt.''
        She even gave the lie to the British maxim ''as different as chalk and cheese.'' To deal with the lack of calcium in people's diets because of a cheese shortage during World War II, she and Dr. McCance successfully pressed the government to add chalk to bread.
        ''There is no branch of nutrition science, past or present, that has not been influenced in some way by the results of her pioneering work,'' a statement by the British Nutrition Foundation said, ''and because of the inspiration and encouragement she gave to nutrition scientists of all ages in the United Kingdom and overseas.''
        Elsie May Widdowson was born and raised in Dulwich in Southeast London. She is survived by a younger sister, Eva Crane, who also became a noted scientist and for more than 30 years was director of the International Bee Research Association.
        Their parents nourished the innate talent of the girls, who attended Sydenham County Secondary School. Elsie was one of the first women to graduate from Imperial College in London, where she studied chemistry. She also obtained her doctorate from Imperial, studying the chemistry of the compounds produced in ripening and stored fruit. She went to King's College in London to do postgraduate work on the subject.
        She found herself spending time in hospital kitchens. She met a young doctor, Dr. McCance, who was studying the chemical consequences of cooking food. She realized his analyses of the carbohydrates in fruit were incorrect and told him so. He was delighted, and arranged a grant so she could work with him. Their collaboration continued until his death in 1993.
        The initial step was combining her research on fruits and vegetables and his on meat, then collecting information on foods generally. The result was their 1940 book ''The Chemical Composition of Foods,'' which is known as the dietitian's bible and is now about to be published in its sixth edition.
        With the onset of rationing, the two made guinea pigs of themselves and other scientists, living on questionable treats like Woolton Pie; it consisted of vegetables and bread crumbs and was named for Lord Woolton, the wartime Minister of Food, who fiercely promoted their very lean cuisine.
        To prove the diet's effectiveness, the scientists decamped to the Lake District for vigorous exercise. In one day, they walked 36 miles and climbed 7,000 feet, burning 4,700 calories. They were none the worse for it. The only serious worry was a lack of calcium, a problem handled by adding ground chalk to bread flour.
        After the war, Dr. Widdowson was asked to study how to treat the gross starvation suffered by survivors of Nazi concentration camps. She was then asked to study children in two German orphanages. She was amazed to find that children who had been given extra bread, jam and orange juice did worse in terms of development and growth than those who had not.
        The difference, Dr. Widdowson surmised, could be explained only by the personality of the director at the orphanage where extra nutrition was provided. She was ''stern and forbidding, ruling the home with a rod of iron,'' Dr. Widdowson wrote. ''Children and staff lived in constant fear of her reprimands and criticisms, which were often quite unreasonable.''
        It turned out that love was the healthiest food of all.
      