
        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from ovarian cancer and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Arthur.
        Mrs. Stoliar's talents were in demand for books requiring special treatment for their illustrations or instructional materials. She also supplied the graphic designs for trade books by Richard Bach, James Clavell, Johnny Carson and the harpsichordist Wanda Landowska, among others.
        For Mr. Bach she designed his best sellers ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull'' (Macmillan, 1970), ''Illusions'' (Delacorte, 1977) and ''The Bridge Across Forever'' (Morrow, 1984). ''Illusions'' was the first book design to be copyrighted in its entirety.
        At the behest of the mayor's office she created a commemorative volume in 1989 to mark the 200th anniversary of George Washington's inauguration. Later, she designed New York City's souvenir parade program for troops returning from the Persian Gulf war.
        In her angler's incarnation, Mrs. Stoliar was a board member of the Manhattan-based Theodore Gordon Flyfishers and the founding director of their Trout in the Classroom program. It helps to outfit and maintain artifical tanks in a number of public schools in which children raise hatchling brown trout.
        The students then release the fish in the streams of the city's upstate watersheds. The program was created to help make the children aware of the clear brooks and rivers in the Catskills and Hudson Valley.
        Mrs. Stoliar also inspired the club's Project Access, a volunteer effort to build trails and access ramps at two trout streams in the Catskills. She enlisted the Department of Environmental Conservation and other interested parties to make selected fishing holes accessible to the disabled and elderly.
        Born Joan Kramer in Brooklyn, Mrs. Stoliar graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh in 1950 and worked as an art director at various publications before turning freelance. She frequently lectured on book design at publishers' seminars.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Stoliar is survived by a daughter, Lee Stoliar Dufresne of Charlotteville, N.J.; a son, Evan, of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Virginia Stein of Somerville, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
      