
        Diane Divers Blair, who taught and practiced politics in Arkansas for 30 years, becoming fast friends with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, died on Monday at her home in Fayetteville, Ark. She was 61.
        The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
        At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
        Mrs. Blair befriended the Clintons in the mid-1970's. She worked as a researcher for Mr. Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992, and as an adviser in his 1996 re-election effort. In 1993, Mr. Clinton appointed her to the board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
        The friendship drew scrutiny in Mr. Clinton's first term after it was revealed that Mrs. Blair's husband, James B. Blair, the chief counsel to Tyson Foods, had helped Mrs. Clinton make nearly $100,000 in profits from trading in commodity futures.
        Professor Blair was a regular guest at the White House, and the Clintons reciprocated, visiting her in Fayetteville three times in recent months during her illness.
        The Clintons are expected to attend a memorial service for her next month.
        Professor Blair was born in Washington. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Cornell University in 1959 and received an M.A. in political science at the University of Arkansas in 1967.
        In between she worked as an analyst for the President's Committee on Government Contracts, a researcher for the Senate Special Committee on Unemployment and legislative secretary to Senator Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri.
        After moving to Arkansas, she served Governors Dale L. Bumpers and David H. Pryor on various state commissions.
        In 1980, Governor Clinton appointed her a commissioner of the Arkansas Educational Television Network, and she served until 1993. The board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting elected her chairman in 1997 for a two-year term.
        In addition to writing many articles and book chapters, she was the author of ''Arkansas Government and Politics: Do the People Rule?'' (University of Nebraska Press, 1988).
        In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      