
        Natalie Davis Spingarn, a medical writer who endured multiple bouts of cancer and became a prominent spokeswoman for cancer survivors, died on June 6 in Washington. She was 78.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, her son Jonathan said.
        Mrs. Spingarn's latest book, ''The New Cancer Survivors: Living with Grace, Fighting with Spirit,'' was published this year. Her personal story ''Hanging in There: Living Well on Borrowed Time,'' was published in 1982.
        She created the ''Cancer Survivor's Bill of Rights'' for the 75th anniversary of the American Cancer Society, said Joann Schellenbach, a spokeswoman for the organization. The document, written in 1988, was widely distributed among those with cancer, and Mrs. Spingarn became an important figure in the patients' rights movement, Ms. Schellenbach said.
        Mrs. Spingarn's paper demanded that patients have a say in their medical treatment, that former cancer patients be freed of any social stigma and that employers and insurance companies not discriminate against them.
        Cancer pervaded Mrs. Spingarn's life and the lives of many around her.  She had a mastectomy in 1974. But the cancer spread, first to her spine, for which she had radiation therapy in 1977, then to her hip, for which she had chemotherapy in 1979. She had a second mastectomy in 1981. Mrs. Spingarn's grandmother died of cancer. Her two sisters had breast cancer, and one died of pancreatic cancer. One of her two sons is a lymphoma survivor.
        Natalie Davis was born May 26, 1922, in New York City, and reared in  New Rochelle. She graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from Vassar College in 1943, and became a journalist, then wrote on health and social policy for the federal government. In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
        Mrs. Spingarn is survived by her husband, Jerome Spingarn; two sons, Jonathan of Atlanta and Jeremy of Norwood, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      