
        Nancy Marchand, the distinguished character actress who excelled at playing wise and imperious authority figures -- newspaper publishers, queens, grande dames and a madam -- and who achieved perhaps her greatest fame as the domineering mother of a mob boss in the television series ''The Sopranos,''  died on Sunday at her home in Stratford, Conn., one day short of her 72nd birthday. She also had a home in Manhattan.
        Her daughter Katie Sparer Bowe said that no specific cause of death was given, but for several years the actress had been suffering from cancer and chronic pulmonary disease.
        A wide diversity of playwrights -- among them Chekhov, Shaw and  Shakespeare as well as Jean Genet, Paul Osborn and A. R. Gurney -- was within Ms. Marchand's range. She once described her physical presence as ''a strange combination of being very imposing and down-to-earth,'' an accurate assessment of the seemingly contradictory image she projected.
        That description could be applied to the overburdened wife she played in the 1980 Broadway revival of Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven,'' the patrician publisher on the long-running ''Lou Grant'' television series and her portrayal of Livia Soprano, the monster mother of them all, a woman bred into the Mafia who without a blink of hesitation sets up her son Tony to be assassinated because he has moved her to a nursing home.
        Except for her indomitability, Livia was in direct contrast to all the ''tasteful ladies'' Ms. Marchand  played in her busy career. At 70, after more than 50 years of acting, she discovered a new popularity, and it was for playing a wildly unsympathetic character. Livia Soprano was a role that she compared to that of Caligula's great-grandmother in ''I, Claudius,'' a woman who also happened to be named Livia.
        Throughout her career, Ms. Marchand gave her roles an unexpected edge. Even when her characters were at their most officious, they retained a measure of charm, and her more affectionate characters could also be sardonic. She was an expert at both light and more serious comedy, moving effortlessly from the outrageous antics in the movie spoof ''The Naked Gun,'' to Lady Bracknell in ''The Importance of Being Earnest.''
        In plays like ''Morning's at Seven,'' she warmed an audience's collective heart, but she never wore her own heart on her sleeve, avoiding the cul de sac of sentimentality. Instead she was wily in performance, turning in an instant from comedy to poignance.
        Often she acted onstage with her husband, Paul Sparer -- in everything from ''A Phoenix Too Frequent'' by Christopher Fry to Edward Albee's ''Delicate Balance'' to Mr. Gurney's ''Love Letters.'' Mr. Sparer also had his own rewarding career in plays that included Elie Wiesel's ''Zalmen, or the Madness of God'' and ''The Burnt Flowerbed'' by Ugo Betti. Individually and together they were ultimate theatrical professionals.
        Mr. Sparer died in November. In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
        Offstage, Ms. Marchand was the reverse of so many of her strong-willed characters, a woman with a natural sense of insecurity, someone who felt uneasy in social situations. ''I'm always very uncomfortable with people.'' she once explained in an interview in The New York Times. ''It's something that I get upset with myself for, but that's the way I am. But I love people. And  when I'm on the stage, I can embrace people and still feel safe. There are a lot of different facets to my personality that I don't use all the time in my house, or in everyday life, that I can experience and share when I'm on a stage.''
        Her roles, she said, were more a question of chance than choice. But whatever she was called on to do, even if it meant being as malevolent as Livia Soprano, she did it with enthusiasm. As always, she was captivated by her profession. Looking back on her career, she said, ''Acting was something I had to do.''
        Nancy Marchand was born in Buffalo on June 19, 1928. After studying theater at Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, she made her first professional appearance onstage in 1946 in ''The Late George Apley'' in Ogunquit, Me. It was while acting in Shakespeare and Shaw at the Brattle Theater in Cambridge, Mass., that she met -- and then married -- Mr. Sparer. When they moved to New York, she appeared on live television, playing Jo in a dramatization of ''Little Women,'' and then playing the female lead opposite Rod Steiger in the original television version of Paddy Chayefsky's ''Marty.''
        In 1957 she made her Broadway debut in ''Miss Isobel,'' and two years later won an Obie award for her role as Madame Irma in the Off Broadway premiere of ''The Balcony'' by Genet. For several years she played leading Shakespearean roles with the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn. As an original member of the A.P.A. theater company (formally the Association of Producing Artists), she was Lady Sneerwell in ''The School for Scandal,'' Arkadina in ''The Seagull,'' Dona Ana in ''Man and Superman'' and other classic characters.
        Continuing her devotion to repertory theater, she joined the theater at Lincoln Center to act in plays by Schiller (Queen Elizabeth in ''Mary Stuart''), Gorky and Sean O'Casey (''The Plough and the Stars'' with Jack MacGowran).
        Ms. Marchand worked with equal ease on Broadway, off Broadway and in regional theater, as well as in movies and on television. In the 1980's she played the title role in Christopher Durang's ''Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You,'' Bessie Berger in Clifford Odets's ''Awake and Sing'' at Circle in the Square, Klytemnestra in Ezra Pound's ''Elektra'' and the august mother in ''The Cocktail Hour'' by Mr. Gurney.
        In the following decade, she moved on to Jon Robin Baitz's ''End of the Day'' at Playwrights Horizons, and, in 1993, acted in a double header of Peter Shaffer plays, ''Black Comedy'' and ''White Liars,'' at the Roundabout Theater Company. That same year she also played the wicked stepmother in a revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Cinderella'' at the New York City Opera.
        Her movie appearances included ''The Hospital''; two films with the team of Merchant Ivory, ''The Bostonians'' and ''Jefferson in Paris'';  and the remake of ''Sabrina,'' in which she played Harrison Ford's mother. When she played Mrs. Pynchon, the publisher of The Los Angeles Tribune on ''Lou Grant,'' the role became a keystone of her career; for it she won four Emmy awards. Some years later on television's ''Spearfield's Daughter,'' she switched cities and became the publisher of The New York Courier.
        When Ms. Marchand played Livia Soprano on ''The Sopranos,'' television viewers wondered how her son Tony, played by James Gandolfini, and his wife (Edie Falco) could put up with her malice and her prejudices. The answer, of course, was that there was nothing much they could do against this self-dramatizing force of nature.
        At the end of the show's first season, Tony was about to smother his mother with a pillow, but a stroke got there first and she was left gasping for breath in a hospital bed. David Chase, the creator of the Home Box Office series, said yesterday that he always planned to bring Livia back for a second year. He added that he was impressed by Ms. Marchand's  courage as she continued to perform despite her illness.
        When that season ended, Ms. Marchand said she was looking forward to the second round: ''Who knows what lurks in the mind of Livia?'' Viewers soon found out: more of the same.
        During the last show of the second season, there was a sudden twist in the narrative. Tony gave his mother airline tickets so that she and his aunt could fly to Arizona. Before she could get on the plane, Livia was stopped by men from airport security. The tickets were stolen property. Frantically, she telephoned her son.
        Because filming on the third season of ''Sopranos'' was not scheduled to begin until Aug. 1, that scene represents Ms. Marchand's final performance: about to be arrested and furious at Tony for putting her in that predicament. Mr. Chase would not discuss forthcoming events in the series, but if the actress had lived, undoubtedly the mother and son battle would have continued and Livia Soprano would have had the last word.
        Correction:  June 21, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Nancy Marchand yesterday misidentified Livia, a Roman historical figure, in some copies. Livia, to whom Ms. Marchand compared her television role as Livia in ''The Sopranos,'' was the great-grandmother of the Emperor Caligula, not his mother.
        A page one reference to the obituary misstated the character's name as Lydia in some copies.
        Correction:  June 22, 2000, Thursday  An obituary of the actress Nancy Marchand on Tuesday misstated the title of a Peter Shaffer play in which she appeared with the Roundabout Theater Company in 1993. It is ''White Lies,'' not ''White Liars.''
      