
        Elizabeth Dooley, who watched more than 4,000 consecutive Boston Red Sox home games over 55 seasons from her front-row box seat, died Monday in Boston, hours before her beloved Red Sox suffered a 22-1 beating from the Yankees. She was 87, a year younger than Fenway Park, the home of the Red Sox.
        In 1996, Ted Williams, the greatest Red Sox player of them all, said of Ms. Dooley: ''Forever, she's the greatest Red Sox fan there'll ever be. Every time I get a chance to get around here I like to do it, because she's really a big league gal.''
        Ms. Dooley shrugged off that accolade.
        ''I do not consider myself a fan,'' she said. ''I am a friend of the Red Sox.''
        Lib Dooley was a faithful friend. She called Williams Theodore and telephoned him on his every birthday. When Bobby Doerr retired, she started sending him clippings from Boston newspapers.
        Dom DiMaggio was another of her Red Sox favorites. Upon learning of her death, he told The Boston Globe: ''She was a perfect lady. I remember so well when she presented us with our American League championship rings after we won in 1946. She was so thrilled. The Red Sox were practically her whole life, from what I could gather.''
        They were indeed. From 1944 until 1998, she did not miss a home game and sometimes made road trips. Illness forced her to miss some games in 1998 and 1999. This year, she made only opening day and last month's Red Sox Hall of Fame dinner.
        She would sit in Box 36-A in the front row behind the Red Sox on-deck circle, delivering Oreos and Starbursts to the players and then watching the game intently. Despite her close seat, she said only one foul ball came her way, by Carroll Hardy in the early 1960's. She caught it and broke two fingers.
        She never married. She attended Boston College at night, and then, for 39 years, was a gym and health teacher in the Boston public school system. In 1956, she moved to an apartment in Kenmore Square. It was seven minutes from Fenway Park, she said, a little longer as age made walking more difficult.
        She came by baseball naturally. In 1901, her father, John Stephen Dooley, helped the new Red Sox team get a home at the Huntington Avenue Grounds. According to her family, the father attended every season opener from 1894 until 1970, when he died at 97. ''I despise bridge and I hate gossip,'' Lib Dooley said. ''I wanted something where I could go by myself without anyone ruining it by saying, 'I can't do it this week.' Baseball gets you out in the fresh air and keeps you from talking about your neighbors.''
        Her friendship with players did not alter her perspective.
        ''The fans are really baseball, not the players,'' she said. ''You can always get someone to play ball. It doesn't have to be someone who gets $4 million to work two hours a day.''
        David Leary, her 24-year-old grandnephew, sat in her seat at Monday night's game. Afterward, he got a game ball to place in her coffin.
        Her survivors include four sisters, Winifred A. Dooley, Katherine M. Dooley and Anna Martin, all of Milton, Mass., and Mary Jane Boyd of Texas.
      