
        Mary Benson, an author, journalist and political campaigner who wrote passionately about the struggle for racial equality in her native South Africa,  died at home in London on Monday, her literary agent, Felicity Bryan, said. She was 80.
        Miss Benson's books included a novel, ''At the Still Point,'' and biographies of Nelson Mandela and Winnie Mandela, his wife at the time, written while Mr. Mandela was still serving his long prison term and decades before he would become president of South Africa. In her memoir, ''A Far Cry: The Making of a South African,'' Miss Benson told how her early racial prejudice gave way to a wholehearted repudiation of white minority rule in South Africa.
        Along the way, she grew close to many of the leading figures in the anti-apartheid movement, and her tiny apartment in St. John's Wood became an unofficial refuge for South Africans working for the cause in London.
        It was Miss Benson whom Mr. Mandela sought out one evening in 1962 when, after slipping illegally out of South Africa to raise support in West and East Africa, he made a quick side trip to London. She had been expecting Oliver Tambo of the African National Congress; when she opened the door, Mr. Mandela was standing beside him.
        ''I can't think what I gave them to eat, because I am a very indifferent cook, but it was quite an extraordinary evening,'' Miss Benson recalled in 1996, describing how Mr. Mandela paced up and down her apartment, brimming with ideas. ''He talked so excitedly and with such enthusiasm. It was unforgettable.''
        Mary Benson was born into the privileged world of country clubs and servants in white South Africa in 1919. Passionate about films and bored by life at home, she traveled to Hollywood on a cargo ship as a teenager, using a mix of charm and determination to win interviews with Jimmy Stewart and other movie stars, about whom she then wrote.
        Restless and daring, Miss Benson served as an aide to various British generals in the Middle East, North Africa and Europe. She worked as a volunteer with displaced persons after the war, before becoming secretary to the director David Lean.
        It was not until 1948, when she read Alan Paton's ''Cry, the Beloved Country'' that Miss Benson saw her country with new eyes and discovered the cause that was to be her life's passion. She began a correspondence with Mr. Paton (she was also to develop intense correspondences and lifelong friendships with Athol Fugard, among others) and campaigned in London for the rights of black Africans. She helped found the Africa Bureau with the Rev. Michael Scott, an Anglican priest who championed Namibian independence and with whom she fell in love.
        Miss Benson returned to South Africa in 1957, becoming secretary of the defense fund for the 156 people, Mr. Mandela among them, who had been charged with treason for opposing the country's apartheid laws. Compelled to leave the post when she became ill with a debilitating form of arthritis that was to dog her throughout her life, Miss Benson turned her attention to writing. When the African National Congress was banned, she continued to support its leaders, visiting Mr. Mandela when he was forced underground and at least once accompanying him in a car in which he posed as her chauffeur.
        Among Miss Benson's first books was a history of the outlawed African National Congress, published in the United States as ''South Africa: The Struggle for a Birthright.'' In 1964, after reporting on the political trials that resulted in long prison terms for the A.N.C.'s members, Miss Benson was placed under house arrest and her passport was confiscated. She left the country in 1966, returning only once in the next 24 years -- for a month in 1968, to be at her father's deathbed -- but continued to write about South Africa through the late 1990's. She never married.
        Among other projects, Miss Benson also edited Athol Fugard's ''Notebooks'' and wrote a number of radio plays for the BBC. She was also the author of ''Athol Fugard and Barney Smith: Bare Stage, a Few Props, Great Theater.''
        On the occasion of Miss Benson's 80th birthday in December, Mr. Mandela sent a message from South Africa. ''It reminds me of all the great help you gave to me and my family while I was in prison,'' he wrote. ''I send you all my thanks and appreciation of your generous friendship over half a lifetime.''
        Correction:  June 23, 2000, Friday  An obituary yesterday about the South African writer Mary Benson misstated the title of one of her books. It is ''Athol Fugard and Barney Simon: Bare Stage, a Few Props, Great Theater,'' not ''Athol Fugard and Barney Smith.''
      