
        Barbara T. Christian, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California at Berkeley and a pioneer of contemporary American literary feminism, died on June 25 at her home in Berkeley. She was 56.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Patricia McBroom, a university spokeswoman.
        The author and editor of several books and 100 articles and reviews, Ms. Christian was best known for her landmark study ''Black Women Novelists: The Development of a Tradition.'' It appeared in 1980 amid a general rediscovery of the work of such writers as Zora Neale Hurston and Nella Larsen and the rise to prominence of several younger authors, including Toni Morrison and Alice Walker.
        Ms. Christian was a leading critical presence in the growing debates over the relationship among race, class and gender. Her widely cited article ''The Race for Theory'' challenged the increasing domination of African-American literary study by those who were primarily interested in theory rather than in writers and their work.
        Born in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, Ms. Christian entered Marquette University in Wisconsin at the age of 15. After she graduated cum laude in 1963, her family urged her to study medicine, but she instead chose graduate study at Columbia University, from which she received a doctorate in contemporary British and American literature in 1970. During her graduate studies, she also taught at the City College of the City University of New York.
        In 1971, she was appointed assistant professor at Berkeley. A year later, she was instrumental in the establishment of the department of African-American studies, where she taught until her death. She was chairwoman of the department from 1978 until 1983. She led Berkeley's new doctoral program in ethnic studies from 1986 to 1989.
        In 1978, she became the first African-American woman to be granted tenure at Berkeley. In 1986, she became the first to be promoted to full professor. In 1991, she won the university's Distinguished Teaching Award, the first African-American to do so. This year, she received the Berkeley Citation ''for distinguished achievement and for notable service to the university.''
        In a letter supporting her nomination, Henry Louis Gates Jr. of Harvard University wrote that Ms. Christian ''has emerged as the senior figure among African-American feminists.'' Arnold Rampersad of Stanford University called her ''a major shaper and guide in the general area where the subjects of literature, race and feminism meet.''
        Ms. Christian's marriage to David Henderson, a poet and a biographer of Jimi Hendrix, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a daughter, Najuma Ide Christian of Berkeley; her parents, Judge Alphonso A. and Ruth Christian of St. Thomas; three sisters, Dr. Cora Christian of St. Croix, Reubina Gomez of St. Thomas and Alicia Wells of Philadelphia; two brothers, Alphonso Christian of Washington and Delano Christian of San Francisco; and a stepson, Imetai Malik Henderson of New York.
      