
        Neuma Goncalves da Silva, a central figure in the slums that served as the testing ground for the composers, seamstresses and fiercely talented layabouts who catapulted samba into an art form, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. She was 78.
        A poor woman all her life, Ms. Goncalves da Silva rose to national prominence because of her role in the samba school of Mangueira, a sprawling favela in Rio de Janeiro. Her home became a meeting place for the creators of samba, the frenetic, drum-heavy music that accompanies the hip-gyrating dance of the same name.
        She founded the women's wing, or ''feminine department,'' of the Mangueira samba school and was its president for several terms. She often sought out the carpenters and sculptors who built the floats, and the seamstresses and designers who created the costumes for the annual Carnival celebration. The school's official colors, pink and green, often show up among the victors in samba competitions.
        Ms. Goncalves da Silva was a behind-the-scenes force in electing the male-dominated leadership of the school. Candidacies like that of the acting Mangueira president, Elmo Jose dos Santos, were often said to have been hatched from her modest home on Visconde de Niteroi street.
        Ms. Goncalves da Silva also entertained celebrities like the composer Heitor Villa-Lobos and the musician Noel Rosa, as well as many politicians.
        One governor recognized Ms. Goncalves da Silva's social role by giving her a telephone, the first in the favela.
        The eldest daughter in her poor family, Ms. Goncalves da Silva was born in 1922 in Madureira, another Rio neighborhood, and moved to Mangueira as a child. At the time, samba was emerging as a type of lingua franca among the variants of African-inspired music and dance practiced in Rio.
        In 1928, her father, Saturnino Goncalves, was a founder of the Mangueira Samba School and Recreational Society, together with Jose Gomes da Costa, also known as Ze Espinguela, a master of organization who arranged the first competitions among Rio's samba schools. Other founders were the legendary composers Angenor da Silva, or Cartola, and Carlos Moreira de Castro, better known as Carlos Cachaca.
        Immersed as she was in music as a child, Ms. Goncalves da Silva, not surprisingly, made samba central to her life, which was always one of economic hardship. To make ends meet, according to one account, she took to washing clothes by hand after being denied a factory job because she was black.
        ''Samba never leaves us sad,'' Ms. Goncalves da Silva, affectionately known as Dona Neuma, told one interviewer. ''It never leaves us with that disease which is nostalgia.''
        When Maria Tereza Goulart, the wife of Brazil's former president, Joao Goulart, visited Ms. Goncalves da Silva to see the Mangueira school for herself, she was reported to have danced until the wee hours. A headline in a local newspaper read, ''The first lady of the country is received by the first lady of samba.''
        Ms. Goncalves da Silva is survived by four children, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        As samba evolved over the years into a commercialized, multimillion-dollar industry, Ms. Goncalves da Silva wondered whether the musical form could still capture with frivolity the ferocity of existence, as it did when the Mangueira samba school was starting out.
        ''These days samba is manufactured instead of delivered from within us,'' she said. ''But I think samba is on a slow voyage to victory.''
        After Ms. Goncalves da Silva's burial on Tuesday, her friends and family members gathered to dance until 3 in the morning to some of the legendary sambas with which she was associated.
      