
        Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84.
        Dr. Martin, who lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, had long battled an autoimmune disorder, her family said.
        She became known as the unofficial doctor to the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, or more personally, ''the little lady doctor from up North.'' She had gone to Mississippi to work with children under a precursor of the Head Start program and diagnosed their bloated stomachs as resulting from acute malnutrition. She soon found herself holding the hands of civil rights workers as they experienced daily intimidation and humiliation.
        ''She was just something we had never seen before,'' said Unita Blackwell, one of the leaders in the fight to register black voters in Mississippi in the 1960's, and now the mayor of Mayersville, Miss. ''She was a white woman who was caring and loving.''
        As Molotov cocktails exploded on Ms. Blackwell's lawn in the Freedom Summer of 1964, Dr. Martin sent Ms. Blackwell's traumatized 7-year-old son to Vermont to attend summer camp. An abandoned New York City child she took under her wing when he was 4 is now a lawyer who will help direct a foundation to be set up in her honor.
        Josephine Diaz was born in Tampa, Fla., on Dec. 31, 1915. Her father was born in Spain, became a cigar-maker, then immigrated to Tampa. When Josephine was very young, her family moved to New York City, where she attended elementary and high school.
        She contracted tuberculosis as a teenager and spent two years in a sanitarium. At 19, she married a  fellow patient, a social worker named Earl Martin. They worked together organizing people who had had tuberculosis to fight for better treatment.
        Meanwhile, she attended several colleges. At the State University of New York in Buffalo, she was offered a scholarship to medical school, but the couple moved because of Mr. Martin's job. She eventually graduated from Hunter College.
        She then worked at jobs in medical research and marine biology. Eventually, in her 30's, she entered medical school at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, borrowing and working to pay tuition.
        After divorcing Mr. Martin, she married Cedric H. Belfrage, one of the founders of the leftist National Guardian. He was forced to leave the United States because of his political views, said Dr. Martin's third and last husband, Robert J. Schwartz. (Mr. Belfrage is deceased, as is Mr. Martin.)
        Dr. Martin went with Mr. Belfrage to London, where she qualified to work for the National Health System; while there, she treated W.E.B. Du Bois, the sociologist and black protest leader, for a heart ailment.
        Increasingly, she felt she needed to know more about patients' personal histories and living conditions. Psychiatry seemed a way to bridge the gap.
        Back in New York, she entered a psychiatric residency at Bellevue Hospital and stayed on as a full-time psychiatrist working with children and adolescents. She started a day program for mentally ill youths, and, because public schools often refused to accept them, she also set up an educational program for them at Bellevue.
        In 1967, after her divorce from Mr. Belfrage, she married Mr. Schwartz, a banker who had helped her with financial matters. Mr. Schwartz was also an economist who organized members of his profession to push for arms reductions. He became a leading advocate of investing in socially responsible enterprises.
        ''All my husbands were wonderful men, each appropriate for his time,'' Dr. Martin liked to say.
        On July 4, 1963, she and Mr. Schwartz went to Baltimore to participate in a demonstration against an amusement park that refused to admit blacks. They spent the night in jail. On July 8, the Baltimore City Council passed an emergency resolution to set up a human rights commission to mediate the park's racial problems.
        ''What better way to spend the Fourth of July than to go to jail in the war for independence for millions of Americans whose freedom from tyranny did not come with the Declaration of Independence of 1776?'' she wrote in the National Guardian at the time.
        In 1964, Dr. Martin took an extended vacation from Bellevue to go south, where she worked in the Mississippi Child Development Center, the forerunner of Head Start. Her interest in the South dated to 1950, when she became friends with Claude Williams, a white preacher working to integrate his church in Fungo Hollow, Ala.
        She quickly became involved in the civil rights movement as tensions were escalating. She contributed her medical knowledge in teaching sessions and her psychiatric skills in individual sessions with frayed and frightened campaigners.
        ''Some, more disturbed, under constant stress, decompensated or engaged in provocative behavior, putting themselves and others at risk,'' Dr. Martin wrote in an autobiographical essay. ''On occasion, hospitalization became necessary.''
        She sent the troubled civil rights workers to Manhattan, to Gracie Square Hospital, where she had contacts, for fear of what might happen to them in Southern hospitals.
        In his 1972 book, ''The Making of a Black Revolutionary,'' James Forman wrote a personal inscription in the copy he gave Dr. Martin. It said that she ''helped me to unravel many of the conflicting tendencies caused by a very active life, enabling me to bring focus and greater clarity to this head.''
        Mr. Schwartz said that several times Mr. Forman, a leader in the Southern struggle, would arrive at their Manhattan apartment saying it was impossible to return to Mississippi. He would consult with Dr. Martin, and ''10 days later he was back again,'' Mr. Schwartz said.
        Likening the situation to a M.A.S.H. unit, Ms. Blackwell said, ''She was the doctor who was on the battleground.''
        Dr. Martin soon found other battlegrounds back home. Working for St. Luke's-Roosevelt, she set up an innovative home care psychiatric program for residents of welfare hotels. At the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, she worked with troubled adolescents, homeless families and others who needed help.
        At the same time, she socialized in Mr. Schwartz's world of Wall Street financiers. During a pause in the conversation, she would say, ''How about giving some clothing to the poor kids at Bellevue?''
        Boxes would soon arrive at the hospital's door.
        Dr. Martin said her life added up to simply doing the next right thing. ''I had never had the notion that my role was to 'do good' or 'empower' anybody,'' she said, ''but to be able to offer my skills as needed, to live my life as seemed right to me.''
      