
        Thea Porter, one of the earliest  among British fashion designers who rode hippie chic to high visibility, if not always to enduring commercial success, died on Monday in London. She was 72.
        Well before globalization became a fashion cliche, Ms. Porter was deploying the concept in her own canny rendition of it. Beginning in 1967, from a series of shops located in unlikely quarters of London and Paris, and later at I. Magnin in San Francisco and Giorgio of Beverly Hills, she made and sold clothes whose inspiration was drawn from her far-ranging travels and a childhood spent as the half-French, half-English daughter of a missionary posted to the Middle East.
        Ms. Porter dressed Elizabeth Taylor for the souk, put the socialite Dalitha Getty in caftans and created Symbolist-inspired costumes for a perpetual party centered on the Rolling Stones and their newly made friends from the British aristocracy.
        Her specialty was in finding exceptional fabrics -- Swiss chiffons, Indian handprints, 1930's French voiles uncovered in warehouses -- and deploying them voluminously for a clientele undaunted by the extravagance of both her silhouettes and her fees. A gypsy costume Ms. Porter made for Begum Aga Khan to wear to a fancy dress ball given by Baron Alexis de Rede was lavish enough that her fellow Briton, the designer Hardy Amies, described it as ''pre-guillotine.''
        Born in Jerusalem on Dec. 24, 1927, Dorothea Noelle Naomi Porter was raised in Damascus, Syria, and briefly attended the Royal Holloway College in London, until she was expelled because, she once explained, ''I wanted to study art.'' Although her art studies were equally short-lived, a job as a librarian in Beirut eventually resulted in her marriage, in 1953, to Robert Porter, an economist attached to the British Embassy in Lebanon. As a diplomat's wife in the early 60's, Ms. Porter traveled to Iran and Jordan, spent holidays in Italy and France and, as she once said, ''went to nightclubs every night and had millions of clothes.''
        The marriage dissolved in 1964, and Ms. Porter began a fashion career with textiles collected during her travels. By good fortune, the prevailing style of the moment was High Ethnic. Clients at her Moroccan-inspired shop on Greek Street in London included not only rock stars but also members of a nascent jet set whose style reflected their newfound nomadism. She attired both Jayne Wrightsman, the wife of the oil industrialist Charles Wrightsman, and the actress Jane Fonda as if for a visit to a caravanserai in Kabul.
        ''Her real contribution was introducing ethnic clothes for that late 60's, rich hippie period,'' said the fashion designer Zandra Rhodes. It was a period, Ms. Rhodes said, ''of shawls and prints and unusual textiles that you might have seen on the Beatles or the Mamas and Papas,'' or the titled people who indulged their escapist fantasies with what one critic referred to as Ms. Porter's ''peacockerie.''
        In 1971 Michael Butler, the producer of ''Hair'' on Broadway, financed a shop for Ms. Porter in New York. When the enterprise failed, Ms. Porter returned to England and turned her hand to decoration. Her store, Thea Porter Decorations, eventually went into receivership; she later formed a brief partnership in a smaller store with Princess Dina of Jordan. ''Sadly, one didn't hear of her after that,'' said Ms. Rhodes.
        After a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in 1994, Ms. Porter moved from her Mayfair apartment to a nursing home in Kensington, where she died.
        She is survived by a daughter, Venetia.
      