
        Laurel Fox Vlock, who was instrumental in the videotaping and archiving of many survivors' accounts of the sufferings caused by the Holocaust, died on Saturday in New Haven, Conn. She was 74 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        She died of injuries suffered in a car accident on Friday, said Kathy Landau, a friend.
        She also worked in television as a producer and in other capacities.
        A native of New Haven, Ms. Vlock first learned about the Holocaust in her youth, when her parents, John J. and Rose Greenberg Fox, were aiding its victims during World War II.
        Later she was profoundly moved when she heard an Auschwitz survivor tell of his experiences. She was a local filmmaker in 1979 when she and  Dr. Dori Laub, a psychiatrist and Holocaust survivor, founded the New Haven-based Holocaust Survivors Film Project to compile videotaped interviews with survivors.
        Soon after the project began, Ms. Vlock said in an interview in The New York Times, ''Everybody talks about the unspeakable, but it is speakable, and when it is spoken, it has a force that isn't found anywhere else.''
        Ms. Vlock was a co-founder of what came to be called the Fortunoff Archive of Holocaust Testimonies, at Yale University. At the archive's formal opening in 1982, when it already contained 250 taped interviews, she observed that, with 40 years having passed since the Holocaust, the time left for collecting first-hand accounts was ''indeed running out.''
        By 1985 the archive had more than 700 videotaped testimonies. Roughly half were recorded in the New Haven area. Others were donated by similar projects in California, Illinois, Long Island and Israel. By 1995 there were 3,200 taped testimonies.
        Ms. Vlock was an adviser to the archive for almost two decades. People who viewed the tapes ''have an epiphany,'' she said in a 1985 interview. ''They understand for the first time why people don't forget 40 years later.''
        In 1981 she won an Emmy Award for a television documentary about survivors, ''Forever Yesterday,'' filmed for WNEW-TV in New York. Some of the survivors who were interviewed wept as they described the murder of loved ones long ago.
        Ms. Vlock received a bachelor's degree from Cornell University and a master's degree from Queens College.
        Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      