
        Sally Kovalchick, editor in chief of Workman Publishing Company, who supervised the publication of some notable best-selling books, died on Saturday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 61.
        The cause apparently was a heart attack, a company statement said.
        Ms. Kovalchick spent 26 years at Workman, was a senior editor and then became editor in chief several years ago. She oversaw the publication of about 15 books that became best sellers by the company's count, including ''The Official Preppy Handbook.''
        ''She quietly gave birth to enormous best sellers that achieved cult status,'' said Peter Workman, the company's chief executive. ''She had a great publishing gut'' -- an instinct for what books would be successful, he said. ''Her particular talent was to make books better, to get the most out of authors and their subjects.''
        Ms. Kovalchick specialized in humorous books. In a 1990 interview she said: ''Parodies are always good. We look for a subject, and for the joke. Our authors usually submit complete manuscripts. Once in a while we have a funny idea but can't figure out what to do with it. The hard part is that everyone copies us.''
        Mr. Workman said it was Ms. Kovalchick who nurtured ''The Official Preppy Handbook,'' a 224-page work of humor, into being. Published in 1980, the book was the joint handiwork of four preppies in their mid-20's who were all Ivy League college graduates: Jonathan Roberts, Lisa Birnbach, Carol McD. Wallace and Mason Wiley. A tongue-in-cheek guidebook to ''living the elite and proper life of Prep,'' the book was true enough and funny enough to reach the top of what was then called The New York Times's trade paperback best-seller list of Jan. 4, 1981, for the second successive week and remain on the list for 65 weeks all told.
        Ms. Kovalchick also oversaw the publication of ''Cat'' (1975), a best-selling collection of cartoons of cats by B. Kliban. One ''Cat'' cartoon  pictured a guitar-playing feline singing: ''Love to eat them mousies. Mousies what I love to eat. Bite they little heads off . . . nibble on they tiny feet.'' Within a few years, the Kliban cats began appearing on calendars, greeting cards and other products, becoming a $50 million industry in the mid-1980's. Workman published most of the 10 Kliban books.
        Another best-selling book ushered into print by Ms. Kovalchick was ''The Dieter's Guide to Weight Loss During Sex'' (1978), by Richard Smith.
        The publishing projects she supervised in her later years included ''1001 Ways to Reward Employees'' (1994) by Bob Nelson. Workman says more than a million copies of it have been sold.
        Another later project of hers was the Brain Quest series of question-and-answer games in card deck form for children through seventh grade.
        Ms. Kovalchick was born in Indiana, Pa., and graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, Mass.
        She is survived by two sisters, Becky Rankin of Monroeville, Pa. and Millie Glinsky of Indiana, Pa.;  and a brother, Joseph, also of Indiana.
      