
        Thea Dispeker, a molder of operatic talent from Lauritz Melchior to Richard Leech and boss of her own classical music artists agency for more than 50 years, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 97.
        Laurence Wasserman, her successor at the New York-based management agency that still bears her name, said that she had relinquished control (she called retirement a dirty word) only reluctantly in late 1998, shortly after her 96th birthday. Until then, Ms. Dispeker, erudite, opinionated, acerbic, often presided at auditions in her penthouse apartment on East 79th Street after full days at the offices of Thea Dispeker Inc., (pronounced TAY-uh DIS-peck-uh) at 59 East 54th Street.
        ''She was much more interested in developing talent than taking over the great names,'' said Mr. Wasserman, who had contracted with Ms. Dispeker in 1977, when she was almost 75, to succeed her as the company's president.
        Yet her career was bound up with some of the 20th century's greatest musical names: Richard Tucker, Martina Arroyo, Judith Blegen, Roberta Peters, Jan Peerce, Hermann Prey, Pablo Casals and Wieland Wagner among many others. Indeed, as some associates saw it, Ms. Dispeker was the century.
        Born Dorothea Schlesinger in Munich in 1902, she studied piano and was tutored by her father, a lawyer, author and violinist who had married the daughter of a wealthy banker. At 12, she briefly ran off with a passing circus before going on to study musicology at the University of Munich. After a visit to Tutankhamen's tomb in Egypt in 1924 she contracted polio. But she recovered and worked in Munich with the renowned musicologist Alfred Einstein, marrying and soon divorcing a man named Dispeker and finally fleeing Nazi Germany for the United States in 1938. Still she remained an ardent Germanophile all her life.
        In New York, she gave piano lessons. She started a classical music section of the W. Colston Leigh speakers bureau, where she represented Melchior and other opera stars. When she went into business for herself in 1947, she won Tucker as a client, and later James King, Arlene Saunders, Maria Stader, Benita Valente, and other singers and instrumentalists.
        In 1947 she helped found the Little Orchestra Society for children's concerts. In 1950, she organized the first Pablo Casals festival in the tiny village of Prades, France, where Casals was living in exile from Spain.
        In 1950, she married a fellow refugee from Germany, Lawrence Grieg, known as Lolo. He died in 1986. They had no children.
        Oblivious to advancing age, Ms. Dispeker sought out young singers and musicians to promote; she emerged with a portfolio of rising stars, including Mr. Leech, the tenor, and the Swedish baritone, Hakan Hagegard. ''She had a nose for talent,'' said Mr. Wasserman.
        ''Thea has always been open to hearing anybody who calls the office for an audition,'' said Mr. Leech, who signed with the agency during his first season with the New York City Opera in 1984. ''She's been a beacon for opportunity for young singers.''
        In 1997 the International Society for the Performing Arts Foundation gave her an award of merit timed to the 50th anniversary of her agency.
        But she was almost as famous for her prickly interpersonal relations with staff and other associates, and her sparring with Mr. Wasserman was an open secret in the music management business. Although she continued until several years ago to drive, employees came to dread her friendly invitations for a lift home, finding the rides often terrifying.
        ''I was always a very secure person,'' Ms. Dispeker told an interviewer three years ago, when she was 94. ''I always instinctively knew what was right and wrong and what was good and what was bad. That's mainly what people miss today.''
      