
        Frances Messersmith Miner, who for 43 years nurtured tulips, radishes and children at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Monday in Utica, N.Y., her brother said. She was 94 and lived in a nursing home in nearby Clinton.
        Miss Miner learned of the Brooklyn children's garden, the first to be included within a scientific botanic garden, as a freshman at Smith College when her botany professor mentioned it. She made a note that that was ''something I'd like to do.''
        Seven years later, in 1930, she began working at the children's garden under the tutelage of its founder, Ellen Eddy Shaw, who began it in 1914 on a single acre of the 52-acre Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
        Miss Miner, tall, slender and less frail than she seemed, looked as if she belonged in a garden: she favored straw hats and print dresses.
        She relished getting down on her hands and knees to weed at a time when not many women did. Her title was curator of instruction, but she was called ''the botanic lady'' by generations of youngsters, some of whom were inspired to become influential gardeners as adults.
        ''To me, she seemed to know everything,'' said Helen Mattin, who almost seven decades ago began crossing Washington Avenue as an 8-year-old to take classes and is now a major benefactor to the garden. ''It was great to be with someone who just poured out love to me.''
        Scott Appell, who started gardening at 9 in 1963 and is now educational director at the Horticultural Society of New York, emphasized that Miss Miner provided much more than engaging baby-sitting. There were written tests, badges and medals for high achievement. Well-kept children's plots were marked with signs with a white star on a green background; those needing work got a sign with a blue question mark.
        ''When we went to class on Saturday, it was just like being in school,'' he said. ''It was not informal at all. It was very hard. We were taught a sense of responsibility.''
        A tangible example of the responsibility Miss Miner demanded was the care of gardening tools. Hoes, rakes and trowels dating back more than 80 years can be seen gleaming on the racks of the Children's Garden House, which last year was refurbished and named for Miss Miner.
        Once, when tomato stakes needed painting, she bought green paint and asked the children to do it. Naturally, everybody went home green, but ''she knew that if the children painted the stakes, they would take better care of them,'' said Daphne Welch Day, a longtime colleague.
        Miss Miner summed up her approach in a publication for the Brooklyn garden. ''I believe that students, especially beginners in this adventure, should be participants rather than spectators,'' she wrote. ''A feeling of ownership and a sense of responsibility for the care of a plant 'pet' elicit an entirely different kind of response than viewing displays of plants, no matter how spectacular.''
        Miss Miner was born in Plainfield, N.J., and grew up in Oriskany Falls, N.Y. After graduating from Smith, she worked briefly with the Girl Scouts in Elmira, N.Y., then accepted a post at the Brooklyn garden as an educational assistant.
        Friends quickly came to appreciate her sometimes quirky approach. She liked to be known by her initials, FMM. Each day she would jot notes on the subway to and from her home on 110th Street in Manhattan. They would be daily distributed to ''DW,'' ''AB,'' and her other colleagues.
        She is survived by her brother Charles of Oriskany Falls.
        In addition to writing about botanical topics for publications like the Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society in England, she wrote a 95-page children's book called ''The Adventure Book of Growing Plants.''
        Her joy was seeing a child learn a  lesson about plants. She wrote of a boy named Johnny who despaired because his plants were thriving and healthy but lacked tomatoes. It turned out that Johnny was meticulously picking off the blossoms, which he called ''old yellow flowers.''
        ''Johnny learned the hard way that a blossom is necessary to fruit production and that fruits lead to seed which in turn lead to new plants and more flowers,'' she wrote. ''Johnny took home more than tomatoes.''
      