
        Pat Hearn, one of the leading art dealers of the last two decades, a founder of the Gramercy International Art Fair and a pioneer of the art scene in the East Village, SoHo and Chelsea, died on Friday at her vacation home in Provincetown, Mass. She was 45 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Colin de Land.
        In her 17 years as a dealer, Ms. Hearn was widely respected as unusually empathetic to artists, open to new art and willing to share artists and ideas with other dealers. When her cancer was first diagnosed and it seemed that her insurance company would not cover her treatment (although it eventually paid for some of it), her friends organized a benefit to which hundreds of artists and dealers donated work and money.
        Her gallery was in some ways a continually evolving artwork in which everything, from the 1950's-ish cursive letterhead to the furniture and design of her different spaces, expressed a distinct personality and sensibility. Yet none of this competed with the art on view, which reflected an eclectic mix of artistic generations and media -- painting, Conceptual Art and video art -- and a viewpoint that evolved from somewhat kitschy neo-pop to neo-geo to an ecumenical feminism.
        The artists to whom Ms. Hearn gave first shows, or first New York shows, included the painters Philip Taffee, Milan Kunc, Peter Schuyff, Jutta Koether, Monique Prieto and, most recently, Jeff Elrod, and the Conceptualists Susan Hiller, Renee Green, Lincoln Tobier and Simon Leung. She showed artists she knew from her school days in Boston, including the painter George Condo, the installation artist Jack Pierson and the photographer Mark Morrisroe, and fostered the careers of such older artists as the painter Mary Heilmann, the video artist Joan Jonas and the Conceptualist Lutz Bacher. She was especially proud that she was able to mount posthumous shows of the work of Eva Hesse and Ana Mendieta.
        Behind all this was a very complex woman, at once sophisticated and wholesome, stringent in her taste, yet extremely generous. Slim, dark-haired and usually dressed in a stylish mixture of designer and vintage clothes, Ms. Hearn resembled a bohemian Holly Golightly. In the early years she was usually trailed around her gallery by a nervous, adoring Chihuahua named Chi-Chi. She liked to give Easter Sunday parties and in the late 90's she held an annual Christmas party, complete with decorated tree, in her Chelsea gallery.
        Ms. Hearn was born in Providence, R.I.. She studied painting and video at the Boston Museum School, sang with a band called Wild and Wonderful, and had a brief encounter with performance art before becoming an art dealer. She spent a year in Paris on a travel grant from the museum school in 1981, and while working at an alternative space called Usine Pali Kao began to realize that she was more interested in other artists' work than in her own. She returned to Boston, and while living on unemployment insurance, started a performance space in her home -- a ground-floor room in the Hemenway Hotel -- that she and her friends called the Poly Cow. A few months later she left for New York and a few months after that, in November of 1983, she opened her first gallery.
        In terms of location, Ms. Hearn tended to be the first art dealer on the block. When most East village galleries were situated between First Avenue and Avenue A, she opened on Avenue B and Sixth Street and then expanded to a big SoHo-style space with polished wood floors on Ninth Street near Avenue D. In 1988 she moved to the relatively gallery-free southwest corner of SoHo, on Wooster Street near Grand, which soon teemed with new, experimental galleries. And in 1995, hers was one of three galleries to open on a deserted stretch of West 22nd Street in the wilds of west Chelsea on the same snowy February night. The other two were the Matthew Mark Gallery and the Morris-Healy Gallery, and the joint opening signaled a radical reshuffling of the downtown art scene that would eventually bring nearly 150 new galleries to Chelsea.
        The year before, Ms. Hearn, Mr. Marks and Paul Morris of Morris-Healy had begun to explore the idea of a New York art fair for younger dealers. The result was the Gramercy International, a lively, live-in fair that took place at the Gramercy Hotel on Lexington Avenue and 21st Street for five years before graduating to larger spaces. The 2001 Gramercy International will be held on Pier 90 and will include 160 participants, nearly double the number of last year's fair at the Javits Center.
        Ms. Hearn's first marriage ended in divorce. She and Mr. de Land, whose SoHo gallery, American Fine Arts, is as much an art piece as her own, were married last year after almost 10 years together.
        In addition to Mr. de Land, Ms. Hearn is survived by her mother, Alice Darcy Hearn of Cranston, R.I.; two sisters, Marie, of Providence, and Marion, of Warren, R.I.; and two brothers, John, of Providence, and William J., of Cranston.
      