
        Helene Ritzerfeld, an internationally known executive of a major German publishing house, Suhrkamp Verlag, died on July 22 at her office desk in Frankfurt. She was 86 and lived in Frankfurt.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a colleague, Dr. Petra Christina Hardt.
        At her death, Frau Ritzerfeld, as she was known, was the longtime head of the Suhrkamp department handling what are called, in American publishing, subsidiary rights. She was best known for her work in foreign rights -- that is, the selling to non-German publishers of the rights to publish books that had been published by Suhrkamp.
        Drenka Willen, a senior editor at Harcourt Brace, said Frau Ritzerfeld was influential in her field because ''for one thing, Suhrkamp publishes high-quality books, so she sold the rights to books of great consequence.''
        ''She was a hard bargainer,'' she said. ''She was tough but fair.''
        Lindsay Waters, the Harvard University Press's executive editor for the humanities, said of Frau Ritzerfeld's passing, ''This is the end of an era, as anyone who ever attended the Frankfurt Book Fair will be more than happy to testify.'' The fair is an international publishing event.
        ''The great Walter Benjamin project we have going at the Harvard University Press -- some 3,000 pages -- was made possible by her,'' he said. ''She helped me through so many complicated matters.''
        Benjamin (1892-1940) was a versatile German man of letters known for his literary criticism and his surrealist nonfiction prose. Since the late 1980's, the Harvard University Press has been publishing English translations of Benjamin's works.
        Helene Ritzerfeld was born in Cologne, Germany, and graduated from a secondary school there, the Kaiserin-Augusta-Schule, where she specialized in Latin and mathematics.
        During World War II, she lived in Norway and Berlin. After the war, she worked for a time in the spa city of Wiesbaden, Germany, for the United States occupation government. Her survivors include a number of nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews.
        Ms. Willen said Frau Ritzerfeld was on excellent terms with all of Suhrkamp's major writers, including Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist, and Uwe Johnson, the German author and editor.
        She worked for Suhrkamp for half a century. The publishing house's head, Dr. Siegfried Unseld, wrote after her death, ''Her commitment to spreading German literature in other languages is legendary.'' She was also at home in other literary cultures and translated works by George Bernard Shaw, T.S. Eliot and Soren Kierkegaard.
        A noted German author from a later generation, Martin Walser, recalled, in a remembrance that he wrote for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung: ''Outside Germany one heard that she was a harsh negotiating partner. That was just her commitment on behalf of her authors.''
        ''To enter her room was to come to an ally,'' he added, ''and what does an author need other than allies?''
      