
        Ginetta Sagan, a leader of the American branch of Amnesty International who as a girl fought World War II's injustices in Europe and suffered for it, died last Friday at her home in Atherton, Calif., between San Francisco and San Jose. She was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said the American organization, which named her honorary chairwoman in 1994, the year she also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.
        Mrs. Sagan, a native of Milan, was active in Italy's anti-Fascist Resistance in World War II and survived torture and imprisonment. Denied dignity and freedom then, she championed prisoners of conscience for the rest of her life.
        She came to Washington in the 1960's and helped establish the American division of Amnesty International. The worldwide group had been  founded in London in 1961 to speak for the victims of oppressive regimes. Today Amnesty International has 1.1 million members, 290,000 in the United States.
        When she moved to California, Mrs. Sagan formed the group's first outposts in the western United States.  She served two terms on the national board, and Amnesty International U.S.A. now gives an annual Ginetta Sagan Award for outstanding work on behalf of oppressed women and children.
        Mrs. Sagan was born Ginetta Moroni, the daughter of doctors who would both work for the Italian Resistance. By the time she was 17, she was taking clothing and food coupons to beleaguered Jews.
        Her parents were arrested in 1943, and she never saw them again. That year she became a courier for a clandestine party in northern Italy and helped print and distribute pamphlets. She was betrayed, and arrested by the Fascist authorities, who subjected her to 45 days of interrogation and torture.
        But there were instances of unexpected kindness, too. A jailer once threw a loaf of bread into her cell, and inside she found a matchbox and a slip of paper with a single word: ''coraggio'' -- courage.
        And when members of the Resistance engineered her escape from prison in the Alpine town of Sondrio, near Lake Como, on April 23, 1945, they were helped by two German officers.
        She then lived in Paris with her godfather, an American banker, and attended the Sorbonne. By 1951, she was studying child development at the University of Illinois's Chicago campus, where she met and married Leonard Sagan, a medical student. Their work and travels took them to Washington, Boston, Japan and finally the San Francisco Bay Area.
        In addition to forming new Amnesty chapters, Mrs. Sagan established the Aurora Foundation, which documents civil rights abuses in countries with authoritarian governments.
        Dr. Leonard Sagan, a physician, died in 1997. Mrs. Sagan is survived by three sons: Loring, of San Francisco; Duncan, of Newark, Calif.; and Pico, of London, as well as six grandchildren.
      