
        Helen Quinn, who for more than 30 years presided firmly over the Metropolitan Opera patrons who lined up every Saturday morning to buy standing-room tickets for the next  week's performances, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76.
        The cause was food poisoning, said  Josephine Rowe, a friend.
        Often called the Queen of Standees by the hundreds of people who compliantly allowed her to take charge of the ticket queue, Ms. Quinn was a herself a veteran of standing-room lines at the Met. In 1943, having just finished high school in Manhattan, she attended a performance of Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' at the Met and was instantly hooked on opera. Soon she was attending five or six performances a week, almost always as a standee.
        In 1966, on her own initiative, she more or less imposed a system on the standee process that the throng of regulars was apparently happy to abide by. Standing-room tickets for the week go on sale at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Under Ms. Quinn's system, as opera buffs arrived, many as early as 4 or 5 a.m., they wrote their names on a numbered list on her clipboard, then went home or to a coffee shop across the street, leaving Ms. Quinn to wait in their place.
        Around 9 a.m., the expectant standing-room ticket buyers would return, and Ms. Quinn began barking commands with a vocal power that many a hefty dramatic soprano would covet. Happy that someone was in charge, the opera buffs complied. Ms. Quinn tolerated no dissent, even from the Luciano Pavarotti fans, who tended, she said in a 1994 interview in The New York Times, to be the most pushy.
        ''The Pavarotti people can be a little ferocious,'' she said. ''If I had to live with a group of people the rest of my life, I would pick the Wagnerites. They're the most patient. Domingo people are a close second. The Pavarotti people are at the bottom of the list. I don't mix with them personally. They're loud in their deportment, they talk among themselves and they want extra places for their friends.''
        Cutting ahead in the line was absolutely verboten, as Wotan would put it. ''When I see someone crashing the line,'' Ms. Quinn was quoted as saying, ''I pounce.'' Her tactic was to expose the intruder to the orderly faithful. ''Believe me, it works,'' she said. ''It's the most humiliating experience for anyone.''
        Ms. Quinn, who was born in New Jersey on April 15, 1924, was rather circumspect about her private life. At 14 her family moved to New York City. After graduating from high school, she took her first job as a key-punch operator for Columbia Pictures. In the early 1960's, when she heard that a new Metropolitan Opera House would be built, she moved to  an apartment on West 57th Street to be close. She lived there until her death. She is survived by a sister, Jean Magrow of Oceanside, N.J.
        After Ms. Quinn had for some time been running the standing-room line,  a procedure to which the Met gave tacit approval, some regular standees urged her to begin collecting tips for her efforts. She decided to do so.
        ''I figured that running the line was my contribution to the Met,'' she said. ''But people kept saying to me:  'Helen, wise up. You're performing a public service.'' ' Most patrons offered her a dollar as they turned in their slips, but those who did not  received the same consideration.
        Ms. Rowe, who has been Ms. Quinn's partner in running the standing-room line since 1995, said she planned to continue the work alone.
      