
        Miki Denhof, one of the first women to be the art director of a magazine, and a noted mentor of fashion photographers, died on Wednesday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 88.
        In 1945, when Ms. Denhof joined Conde Nast, its fashion and lifestyle magazines were widely influential for their use of elegant typography and conceptual photography, approaches in which she, too, excelled. The executive art director, Alexander Liberman, installed Ms. Denhof as promotion art director of Vogue. There, ''she was a creative force and arbiter of quality,'' said a friend and colleague, Estelle Ellis.
        ''She also developed a keen ability to edit pictures into narrative sequences and was deft with type,'' Ms. Ellis continued. ''She transcended the conventions of advertising design at that time.''
        Later named the editorial art director for House and Garden and Glamour magazines, Ms. Denhof collaborated with Mr. Liberman, refining the typographic and photographic styles that characterized those publications.
        But she was not simply a stylist. ''Miki always had a sense of the big picture,'' said Don Wise, who was art director of the Glamour promotion art department in the 1950's. ''She designed in an intellectual way, using words as integral parts of her pictures. Now designers routinely integrate type and image, but she did it before most others.''
        In the 60's, at Glamour, she nurtured and mentored many American and European-emigre photographers, including David Bailey, Frank Horvat, Jeanloup Sieff, Louis Faurer and Saul Leiter.
        ''She was the only art director I wouldn't question,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''She could put 22 pictures on a spread and I wouldn't worry. She'd always do it right.''
        Ms. Denhof was born in 1912 in Trieste, Italy, raised in Austria and educated in Vienna and Berlin. She left Germany for New York with her family in 1938.
        One of her earliest design jobs was as an assistant to the Modernist designer Paul Rand at Esquire and Apparel Arts magazines. She was also art director of Conde Nast Books, responsible for such titles as ''Vanity Fair: Photographs of an Age 1914-1936'' with Diane Edkins, and ''The Successful Face'' with Amy Green.
        After leaving Conde Nast in 1977 she designed exhibitions, catalogs and a documentary book for the Guild Hall in East Hampton, which also mounted an exhibition of her editorial layouts.
        She spent the last few years archiving the photo albums and diaries of her father, Bernhard Bardach, a doctor in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I. Recently she donated 900 of the photographs to the Leo Baeck Institute in New York. Some were used in the 1999 exhibition ''Fighting for the Fatherland: The Patriotism of Jews in World War I.''
        Ms. Denhof was divorced from Hans Denhof, who is deceased. She has no immediate survivors.
      