
        Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce. She was 85.
        ''Armed only with her faith, she taught gangs in New York City to solve their differences without violence,'' President Clinton said in a statement last week. ''In Puerto Rico, her community service centers, the Centros Isolina Ferre, transformed ravaged neighborhoods by operating clinics and helping residents to empower themselves.''
        Sister Isolina won the Medal of Freedom, the highest honor the government can give a civilian, for establishing charitable centers in New York City and Appalachia, in addition to Puerto Rico.
        A friend and fellow nun in Sister Isolina's order, the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity, said that Sister Isolina successfully mediated a conflict between warring Puerto Rican youth gangs in Brooklyn in the 1950's and 60's while she was the director of a Catholic charitable center there.
        The friend said Sister Isolina's success as a peacemaker was the result of her interpersonal skills, her training in sociology at Fordham and the insights provided by her Puerto Rican heritage.
        She also worked with Portuguese immigrants in New England and black youths in Brooklyn.
        She won a Rockefeller Public Service Award in 1980 for her work in revitalizing communities and neighborhoods and organizing local groups to serve the unemployed, underskilled, delinquent, sick and handicapped.
        Sister Isolina was born into a Puerto Rican family that owns two leading newspapers. Her brother, Luis, was a governor of Puerto Rico, and established the ruling New Progressive Party. She employed her family's influence in establishing charitable organizations.
        In 1935, while on a trip to Havana, she decided to join the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity.  She studied at St. Joseph College for Women and at Fordham University. Her work in Puerto Rico included founding a vocational school in Ponce.
        She is survived by her brother.
      