
        Angele Albrecht, a widely known ballerina who won acclaim with Maurice Bejart's Brussels-based ballet company, died on Aug. 1 in a hospital in Munich. She was 57 and had lived in Munich since 1986.
        Officials there declined to disclose the cause of her death, The Associated Press reported.
        The German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung, which reported her death on Monday, recalled that when Ms. Albrecht performed solo on a tabletop in Bejart's version of Ravel's ballet ''Bolero,'' ''a graceful sphinx was enticing.''
        When she danced in that ''Bolero'' at the Uris Theater in New York in 1977, one critic, Hubert Saal, wrote in a review in Newsweek: ''To Ravel's subtly inflected score, for 15 nonstop, spellbinding minutes, a wood nymph named Angele Albrecht, on a platform surrounded by 40 staring men, embodies female sexuality in a dance made up in equal parts of spring rites, Hindu mysteries and the hootchy-kootchy. Working in a confined area only intensifies the excitement and the promise.''
        Ms. Albrecht was born in Germany and studied in London at the Royal Ballet School.
        In 1977, after she was, with Daniel Lommel, one of the two featured dancers in a performance of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' at the Uris Theater, Don McDonagh wrote in a review in The New York Times that Stravinsky's ''wistful and brutal'' ballet ''has become a rite de passage for choreographers attracted to its rhythmic intricacies.''
        ''Mr. Bejart, democratically, has included both a man and a woman as the community's ritual offering,'' Mr. McDonagh added, and ''created a dance about survival,'' with ''Miss Albrecht, all shyness and fright,'' showing tremendous energy ''as the surging score whipped the groups of men and women into their frenzy.''
        She was also in demand as one of George Balanchine's ballerinas when he worked in Hamburg, but when he left Europe and became a founder of the New York City Ballet, she joined Bejart's Ballet of the 20th Century in Brussels.
        When she ended her dancing career, she founded a ballet school in Brussels and a dance theater for children, which gave performances around Europe.
        She is survived by a son, Tigran.
        Correction:  August 18, 2000, Friday  An obituary of the ballerina Angele Albrecht on Sunday referred imprecisely to the founding of the New York City Ballet by Lincoln Kirstein and by George Balanchine, for whom Ms. Albrecht danced in Hamburg in the 1950's. The company was founded in 1948, before Ms. Albrecht began her professional career, not after she danced for Balanchine.
      