
        Dawn Langley Simmons, an author whose tumultuous life included a sex change operation and an interracial marriage that scandalized her adopted hometown, Charleston, S.C., died on Sept. 18 at her daughter's home there. She was 77.
        Mrs. Simmons, who was the adopted child of the English actress Margaret Rutherford, had Parkinson's disease, said her daughter, Natasha.
        Mrs. Simmons was the author of more than 20 books, including novels, biographies, and books for her children. Several of her books understandably touched on her life experiences, given a journey that started on an English estate, touched down on an Indian reservation and stirred deep turmoil in civil-rights-era Charleston.
        Jack Hitt, a journalist who grew up in Charleston across the street from Mrs. Simmons and wrote about her for GQ magazine, remembered her as a figure with a piercing stare, a pillbox hat and ''a Dippity-Do hairstyle -- a dowdy doppelganger of Jackie Kennedy.''
        Mrs. Simmons was a person around whom legends swirled, Mr. Hitt said. She lived in a grand house filled with antiques and with a hidden garden. She was said to have had a coming-out party for two of her dogs, who were displayed on velvet cushions in the living room, dressed in chenille, long gloves and pearls.
        Mrs. Simmons was named Gordon Langley Hall when she was born, at Sissinghurst, the estate of the writer Vita Sackville-West, in Heathfield, Sussex, England. Gordon was the illegitimate child of Jack Copper, Sackville-West's chauffeur (a grandfather was Rudyard Kipling's gardener) and Marjorie Hall Ticehurst, who came, Mrs. Simmons always said, from a high social class.
        Mrs. Simmons said she was born with an adrenal abnormality that causes the female genitalia to resemble a man's and was thus raised as a boy. She always maintained that she was -- unequivocally -- female.
        As a boy, young Gordon played with Sackville-West's son, Nigel Nicolson. Mr. Nicolson remembered Gordon in a telephone conversation from England last Friday. ''We called him 'Dinky,' and I always think of him that way,'' he said, adding that young Gordon always looked like a boy.
        At Sissinghurst, the young Gordon met Virginia Woolf, Ms. Sackville-West's lover and the author of ''Orlando,'' a novel about a boy who changes into a beautiful woman. ''Had she lived a little longer, Vita would have been intrigued to know that the child 'Dinky,' as she called me, would become a real-life Orlando,'' Mrs. Simmons wrote in her memoir, ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend,''(1995, Wyrick & Company).
        In his late teens, Mr. Hall emigrated to Ontario, where he worked as a missionary, teacher and midwife among the Ojibwa Indians, according to his book about his experiences, ''Me Papoose Sitter'' (Crowell, 1955). He became an editor for The Winnipeg Free Press, and from 1953 to 1956 was society editor of The Nevada Daily Mail in Missouri. Mr. Nicolson said he was ''a very good journalist.''
        He also wrote books about Princess Margaret, Jacqueline Kennedy and American Evangelism. According to the reference work ''Contemporary Authors,'' a critic named W. H. Archer praised Mr. Hall's ''Rose for Mrs. Lincoln: A Biography of Mary Todd Lincoln'' (Beacon Press, 1970), calling it ''scrupulously researched'' and written in ''a charmingly premeditated style.''
        In New York in his 20's, Mr. Hall met Margaret Rutherford, who became enchanted with him and, with her husband, Stringer Davis, adopted him.
        In that period Mr. Hall also befriended the painter Isabel Whitney, who left him $2 million at her death in 1962, he said. Around that time, he moved to Charleston, settling into a faded 1840 house on Society Street in the Ansonborough section, which had a large gay population. He became friendly with Charleston's grandes dames, restored his house and filled it with Chippendale furniture, mirrors said to belong to George Washington, and bed steps said to have been owned by Robert E. Lee.
        In 1968 he underwent a sex change operation at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, and became Dawn Pepita Langley Hall.
        The following year Dawn Hall married her 22-year-old black butler, John-Paul Simmons. The publisher of ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend'' was quoted as calling it the first documented interracial marriage in Charleston's history. A bomb threat forced the couple to move the wedding from a Baptist church to the bride's home, and the gifts were destroyed by a firebomb.
        In England, Miss Rutherford was reported to have said, ''I am delighted that Gordon has become a woman, and I am delighted that Dawn is to marry a man of another race, and I am delighted that Dawn is to marry a man of a lower station, but I understand the man is a Baptist!''
        Soon, Mrs. Simmons appeared to be pregnant. Then in 1972, she began strolling with a baby carriage bearing a little girl whom she called Natasha.
        That was the final straw for many people in Charleston. Mrs. Simmons claimed that a white man broke into her house wearing a ski mask and beat her, breaking her nose and foot and necessitating hospitalization.
        She also said that her husband beat her. In 1974, after a period of turbulence in which she accused her husband of selling her belongings to buy whisky, the family moved to Catskill, N.Y. Some time later, Mr. Simmons was confined to a mental institution near Albany. His daughter says he is now an outpatient.
        Mrs. Simmons spent most of her later years in Hudson, N.Y., where she was an active member of a local Episcopal church and a leader of its youth group. She continued to support her husband and daughter on her meager earnings as a writer.
        Her daughter said she would prefer not to discuss her mother's past. ''I would like her to be remembered as the grandmother that she was, as a family woman,'' Ms. Simmons said. ''She was devoted to my children.''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Simmons is survived by three grandchildren.
        After she published ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend'' in 1995, her childhood friend, Mr. Nicolson, reminisced about her in The Spectator. ''I have maligned her in the past, mocked her strange fate and refused to meet her,'' he wrote.
        ''She had asked me for help in arranging an English marriage,'' he wrote, ''and when she called on me, I hid.'' On a trip to Charleston, he avoided meeting her, but saw her on television. ''I saw on the wall behind her photographs of my mother,'' he continued. ''For the first time I was touched.''
        But ''there is not a word of reproach for me in her book,'' Mr. Nicolson marveled. ''Like everything else about Dinky, it is gallant, resilient and unfailingly generous.''
      