
        Tatiana Riabouchinska, an international ballet star who was the model for the dancing hippopotamus in the 1940 film ''Fantasia'' and the oldest of the three ''baby ballerinas'' who brought fame to the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in the 1930's, died on Aug. 24 in Los Angeles. She was 83 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Riabouchinska began her ballet career at 14 and continued performing into the early 1950's, dancing most notably with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo from 1932 to 1942 in works by George Balanchine, Leonide Massine and David Lichine, whom she married in 1943. She was celebrated for the joyousness and warmth of her dancing and for her musicality and lightness. Her jumps were high and soft, her footwork quick and her arms exceptionally beautiful.
        ''Because the impetus is exactly right, she strikes you as dancing her whole number on an impulse, spontaneously for the joy of it,'' the critic Edwin Denby wrote of her.
        Born in Moscow, Ms. Riabouchinska was put under house arrest early in the Russian Revolution along with her father, who was a banker for the czar, and her mother and three siblings. But their servants helped the mother and four children escape and they fled to France, eventually settling in Paris. There Ms. Riabouchinska studied with Russian teachers, including Mathilde Kschessinska, who had been a prima ballerina at the Mariinsky Ballet and the mistress of the czar.
        Ms. Riabouchinska was spotted by Balanchine while dancing in a Schiaparelli costume in the Chauve Souris, a fashionable Paris revue. He signed her to the Ballet Russe, which she joined at 15, becoming the oldest of the three dancers who were known as the baby ballerinas. The others, Tamara Toumanova and Irina Baronova, were 13.
        At the Ballet Russe, Ms. Riabouchinska created roles in dances including ''Jeux d'Enfants'' and ''Les Presages,'' both by Massine; in ''La Concurrence'' and ''Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme,'' by Balanchine; and in Lichine's charming ''Graduation Ball,'' in which she played a student identified as the Romantic Girl. Coached by the choreographer Michel Fokine, Ms. Riabouchinska was also known for her performances in two Fokine classics, ''Le Spectre de la Rose'' and ''Les Sylphides.''
        Ms. Riabouchinska went on to dance with companies including Ballet Theater, Les Ballets des Champs-Elysees and the London Festival Ballet. Disney animators sketching rehearsals used her for the hippopotamus ballerina in Disney's 1940 movie ''Fantasia,'' with her husband the model for the alligator. The two were also seen dancing in silhouette in the 1946 cartoon ''Make Mine Music.''
        The Lichines retired in Los Angeles in 1950, opening a school in Beverly Hills and forming the Ballet de la Ville des Anges and several other companies that failed to receive enough financial support to last long. After Lichine's death in 1972, Ms. Riabouchinska ran the school until 1998. She continued to teach ballet at another school up to her death.
        She is survived by a daughter, Tania Lichine Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
        Ms. Riabouchinska, a trouper from an early age, was known for her equanimity. In comparing dancers of her day with those of today, she said,  ''We had fun, but they just have hard work.''
      