
        Penelope Russianoff, a psychotherapist, writer and lecturer who advised women on how to assert themselves, died on Aug. 28 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 82 and also had a home and practice in Sherman, Conn.
        Dr. Russianoff maintained that women must unlearn the helplessness they learned at an early age. Helplessness, she held, can lead to serious problems like depression, overeating, battering, alcoholism, drugs and sexual dysfunction.
        Marriage and male companionship are fine, she asserted, but a woman must be able to do without them. It is good for a woman to have a man's attention, she said, but self-esteem must not depend on it. She tried to show her clients how to communicate with themselves and others.
        Her practice always included some celebrity clientele. It grew after the director Claudia Weill suggested to Paul Mazursky that he cast her as a therapist in his 1978 film ''An Unmarried Woman.''
        Its main character, played by Jill Clayburgh, falls apart when her husband suddenly deserts her for a new life. Dr. Russianoff acted the oh-so-sincere therapist who makes her feel better about herself, using truisms that can comfort the deeply distressed.
        Her appearance in the movie, filmed in her Manhattan penthouse office, drew much criticism from colleagues. It also increased her practice and earned her a book contract.
        ''Why Do I Think I Am Nothing Without a Man?'' became a national best seller in 1982. A second book, ''When Am I Going to Be Happy?'' (1989) was reissued by Bantam in 1997 and remains in print.
        Dr. Russianoff, whose maiden name was Pearl, was born in Baltimore. She graduated from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor in 1939 with honors in psychology and philosophy, and received a master's degree in clinical psychology in 1941. She received a doctorate in that discipline at Northwestern University in 1951.
        She was a member of the faculty of the New School for Social Research from 1960 until the late 1990's.
        Her husband, Leon Russianoff, a noted clarinetist and teacher, died in 1990. She is survived by a daughter, Sylvia Linguiti of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
        Dr. Russianoff ran workshops on performers' phobias and treated many sufferers of stage fright. After her debut on camera, she was much in demand on talk shows and as a speaker at forums on women's problems.
        Of the movie, she said, ''It was great fun, especially because I could change the lines.''
        The lines in the original script by Mr. Mazursky, she said, ''were not things therapists would say.''
      