
        Lucy A. Wicks, a psychologist who worked with people infected with H.I.V. and the founder of the Manhattan School for Children, one of the most innovative and sought-after alternative public schools in Manhattan, died Saturday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center. She was 49.
        The cause of death was breast cancer, said her husband, Daniel N. Arshack.
        Dr. Wicks was the organizer and chief proponent of the school, which grew out of playground chatter with other neighborhood mothers and now enrolls about 500 children in kindergarten through eighth grade on West 93rd Street.
        While there has been a long history of alternative public schools in Manhattan, and to a lesser extent in other parts of the city, most were founded by groups of teachers, administrators or civic groups. The Manhattan School is one of a tiny group of schools founded by parents, and Dr.  Wicks was widely recognized as zealous, canny and willing to pull strings to make the school possible.
        The school, founded in 1992, was born in part out of frustration. As Dr.  Wicks's children approached school age, she visited her neighborhood school, at the time suffering from low test scores, demoralized teachers and leaky walls. The principal told her that as a parent, she should not expect to play a role in improving the school, her husband recalled. ''To Lucy, that simply wasn't acceptable,'' Mr. Arshack said.
        The school Dr. Wicks conceived was small and intimate, with only two classes per grade. It now attracts dozens of applicants for each vacancy. Unlike many other public and private schools, it invites parents to share in every aspect of the school day, from leading reading groups to cleaning up after lunch to  simply sitting and watching.
        In 1996, Dr. Wicks won a seat on the local school board. She was director of the H.I.V. Mental Health Clinic of Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital.
        Ms. Wicks was born in Manhattan and grew up in Franklin Lakes, N.J. She graduated from Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio. She worked as an artist, making tapestries, quilts and oil paintings, before earning her doctorate in clinical psychology at the New School in Manhattan. She was a student of the Sufi branch of Islam.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by her children, Adam, 12, and Eliza, 10; her father, Zeno W. Wicks of Louisville, Ky.; three brothers, Zeno Wicks of Brookings, S.D., David Wicks of Louisville and Douglas Wicks of Pittsburgh; and two sisters, Kayo Wicks of Louisville and Robin Wicks of Mogadore, Ohio.
      