
        Elizabeth Gordon, the influential editor of House Beautiful magazine for more than 20 years, a missionary of taste to the American homemaker and an indefatigable supporter of Frank Lloyd Wright, died on Sept. 3 in Adamstown, Md., where she lived. She was 94.
        When she took over as editor of House Beautiful in 1939, Ms. Gordon was determined to educate the American public about appropriate design and new American architecture. She devoted entire issues to topics like climate control and the emerging ranch house in California.
        Her ''pace setter'' issues in the late 1940's tracked and explained important trends in design to an audience just learning how to consume. In a 1953 essay, ''The Threat to the Next America,'' she railed against cultural dictatorship and the evils of ''a self-chosen elite who are trying to tell us what we should like and how we should live,'' by which she meant the followers of International-style architecture, the curators at the Museum of Modern Art and European architects like Mies van der Rohe and Le Corbusier.
        The article attracted the appreciative attention of Frank Lloyd Wright, who became a mentor and close friend.
        Another influential essay in 1960, ''We Invite You to Enter a New Dimension: Shibui,'' extolled the principles of understated resonance and serenity in design and is credited with introducing traditional Japanese design ideas to the American public.
        ''She was an amazingly influential editor, crusading for the softer side of contemporary design,'' said Louis Oliver Gropp, the recently retired editor in chief of House Beautiful. ''When she covered a topic she did it in staggering depth.''
        Ms. Gordon was born in Logansport, Ind., attended the University of Chicago and briefly taught high school in Wisconsin. In the 1930's she moved to New York to work as a promotional copywriter for several newspapers. She used that job as a springboard to a syndicated column on home maintenance for The New York Herald Tribune, then an editorship at Good Housekeeping, where she remained for eight years.
        During the Depression, she wrote a popular how-to book, ''More House for Your Money'' (Morrow).
        Ms. Gordon, who always used her maiden name professionally, married Carl Hafey Norcross, a writer and expert on aviation and planned communities, and became a pilot herself. Mr. Norcross died in 1988; Ms. Gordon is survived by a sister-in-law, Gertrude Norcross of San Diego.
        At House Beautiful, Ms. Gordon, who was as famous for her large hats as for her imperious taste and insatiable curiosity, once called the magazine ''a propaganda and teaching tool.'' It took her five years of research and seven trips to Japan to prepare for the special issue on shibui. In 1988, she deposited all the materials in an archive at the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington. Some of her other collections were donated to the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York.
        But it was her diatribe against the International style that proved a turning point in her career. It virtually equated the style with communism, or at least a foreign architectural invasion, and warned people not to be sure that ''it can't happen here.'' Soon after it was published, she received a mysterious telegram: ''Didn't think you had it in you. Am at your service from here on.'' It was signed only ''Godfather,'' but it came from Wright.
        For the rest of the 1950's, the master architect and the determined editor worked closely together. When Wright designed one of his famous Usonian houses for a retrospective exhibition, the editors of House Beautiful furnished it. She called her office ''an extension of Taliesin,'' and allowed Wright to install an apprentice architect from Taliesin as the magazine's architecture editor.
        Ms. Gordon devoted two special issues to Wright, keeping the aging architect in the public eye when the eyes of critics had turned elsewhere. He always referred to himself as her Godfather, and designed a bed with built-in cabinets and a jungle motif for her and her husband.
        In 1964, Ms. Gordon left the magazine world, angry with the growing intimacy between editorial content and advertising demands.
        In the 1970's, she and her husband retired to Maryland and a house filled with Japanese textiles and an Otto Natzler pottery collection. From there she continued to consult and lecture widely on design matters close to her heart.
        In 1972, a special issue on Scandinavian design that she had published with an accompanying exhibition that traveled the country won her the insignia of a knight, first class, in the Finnish Order of the Lion. In 1987, she was made an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects. As her goddaughter Brooke Shearer Talbot said, Ms. Gordon ''wore those big pieces of metal at every opportunity.''
        ''She was not afraid to stand out.''
      