
        Mary Shepard, the modest illustrator whose line drawings of Mary Poppins brought to life the ultimate British nanny in a series of seven books by P. L. Travers published from 1933 to 1988, died in London on Sept. 4. She was 90.
        Her father was E. H. Shepard, the illustrator of ''Winnie-the-Pooh'' and ''The Wind in the Willows.'' When ''Mary Poppins'' was being readied for publication, Pamela Travers wanted him to do the pictures.
        He was too busy, but, as Miss Travers wrote almost a half-century later, on a friend's mantle she saw a Christmas card that had ''a happy imperfection, a sense of wonder.'' It was done by Mary Shepard, then 23 and just out of the Slade School of Art.
        Travers's editor, Peter Llewelyn Davis (in the tight British literary world he was one of the Lost Boys befriended by J. M. Barrie, and Mr. and Mrs. Banks, the parents in ''Mary Poppins,'' bore more than a passing resemblance to the Darlings of ''Peter Pan''), worried about Miss Shepard's inexperience, but their collaboration had begun.
        And it was a collaboration. In an attic, Travers said, she found a wooden peg Dutch doll with painted coal-black hair, a turned-up nose and small, bright blue eyes that became the model.
        That doll was later sent to the Donnell Library in Manhattan. But Miss Shepard bought a similar one to use as she drew. She wanted the nanny to stand in the fifth ballet position, with feet turned out and nearly parallel, but Travers insisted on the more comfortable fourth position, with the feet at right angles. Travers died in 1996 at the age of 96.
        In the 1964 Walt Disney movie starring Julie Andrews, the time period and decor were pushed back from the 1930's of the book illustrations to a plush Edwardian era, but Ms. Andrews's costume and bearing stayed true to Miss Shepard's drawings (with her feet back to the fifth position), and Miss Shepard received a payment from the filmmakers.
        Mary Eleanor Jessie Shepard was born on Christmas Day 1909. She had an idyllic Edwardian childhood and an artistic education.
        In 1937 she married E. V. Knox, a friend and colleague of her father's, and outside publishing was known as Mary Knox. Her husband, who had been a widower, was the editor of Punch, the humor magazine. She was only seven years older than Knox's daughter, Penelope, who as Penelope Fitzgerald began publishing novels in her late 50's and died last spring at the age of 83. Knox died in 1971.
        As they grew older, the two women became more like sisters. They lived near each other, talked every day and took care of each other, especially after Knox's death.
        Miss Shepard was Auntie Mary to Fitzgerald's three children and had only one other relative, Minette Hunt, the daughter of her brother, who was killed in World War II. Her last drawings were made for a Fitzgerald grandchild, shortly after she entered the nursing home where she spent her last years. She did not know that Penelope had died.
        A family memorial service was held at the Hampstead Parish Church on Sept. 14, where Miss Shepard worshiped daily as long as she was able. She was so modest that she said she did not wish to be buried with her husband in the pretty Hampstead cemetery because her name would add clutter to his stone.
        Instead, the Fitzgerald children, Maria Fitzgerald, Tina Dooley and Balphy Fitzgerald, have arranged that twin stones be placed next to Knox's. They will be side by side above the cremated remains of Penelope and Mary, one showing a hand with a pen, the other, a hand with a paintbrush.
      