
        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later was editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday. She was 73.
        Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alaska. She was regarded as a pioneer in journalism, especially because she worked at a time when few women held positions of power in the industry.
        Under her ownership, the Daily News fought its way to a circulation of 50,000 from 12,000, becoming Alaska's largest newspaper. Along the way, it won a Pulitzer Prize for public service for a 15-part series on the powerful Teamsters union in Alaska.
        The newspaper also took liberal stands on gun control, environmental issues and the land rights of Alaskan natives, earning it the enmity of the business establishment.
        Nothing in Ms. Fanning's childhood and early married life hinted that she would, at nearly 40, reinvent herself as a risk-taking journalist.
        She was born on Oct. 18, 1927, in Joliet, Ill. The only child of a bank president, she went to private schools, made her debut at a tea dance in 1945 and graduated from Smith College in 1949. That year, she met Marshall Field IV, a multimillionaire whose family owned a department store chain and published The Chicago Sun-Times.
        She once credited that marriage as her introduction to and informal education in journalism, but never considered working in the field until much later. While her husband ran the business, she volunteered with  charities. Society columnists called her ''the Grace Kelly of Chicago.''
        But in 1963, Ms. Fanning and her husband divorced because of what she later called her discontent with the high-society lifestyle. She joined the Christian Science church. Then in 1965, she piled her three children into a Buick station wagon and drove north on the Alaska Highway.
        ''After the divorce, my life was on a downhill slide,'' she told a writer for Town & Country in 1986. ''I needed to grab onto something solid and permanent.''
        She found that in the rugged land of Alaska.
        At the end of their road trip, the family settled in Anchorage. The Daily News, an eight-page tabloid that was then overshadowed by The Anchorage Times, hired Ms. Fanning to organize its library for $2 an hour. She quickly moved up through the ranks to become a reporter whose byline appeared frequently on the front page.
        In 1966, she married Larry Fanning, who had been editor of The Chicago Sun-Times. He had gone to Alaska to help Ms. Fanning sell her house but became enamored with the state. The two bought the Daily News in 1967. The newspaper began running investigative stories that riled the corporate establishment. Many businesses refused to advertise in the newspaper.
        Mr. Fanning died at his desk of a heart attack in 1971. His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and kept up the newspaper's crusading efforts. Under her tenure, and with large infusions of money from Ted Field, the Hollywood financier who is Ms. Fanning's son from her first marriage, the newspaper continued to thrive. It received the Pulitzer Prize for public service in 1976 for its series on the Teamsters.
        In 1983, Ms. Fanning moved to Boston to become editor of The Christian Science Monitor. She married Amos Mathews around the same time. During her five years at The Monitor, she was credited with building up its news coverage. But in 1988, she and two other top editors resigned over budget cuts imposed by the church.
        After she left The Monitor, Ms. Fanning spent a year at the Institute of Politics at Harvard. She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
        While living in Boston, Ms. Fanning also held influential positions at several news organizations. She became the first woman president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and she joined the board of directors of The Boston Globe Newspaper Company in 1992. From 1988 to 1989, she sat on the board of directors of The Associated Press.
        Ms. Fanning is survived by her husband and three children: Mr. Field of Los Angeles, Katherine Stephen of Washington, D.C., and Barbara Field of Boston.
      