
        Sybil H. Milton, a leading scholar of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and a senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died on Oct. 16 in the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. She was 59.
        Dr. Milton, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Henry Friedlander, a professor of history at the City University of New York and president of the German Studies Association.
        She taught German history at Stanford University and elsewhere before becoming director of archives at the Leo Baeck Institute in New York from 1974 to 1984. Afterward, she was a consultant to the Holocaust Memorial Council.
        At the time of her death, Dr. Milton was vice president of the Swiss-appointed Independent Commission of Experts, which was investigating Swiss policies toward Jews and Nazis during the Holocaust.
        Last December, the commission issued a report condemning Switzerland's restrictive policies toward Jewish immigration during the war years when European Jews were seeking refuge from Nazi genocide.
        Dr. Milton, who represented the United States on the commission, studied Swiss banks and the Nazi handling of Jewish-owned assets, precious metals and works of art.
        Menachem Z. Rosensaft, a member of the executive committee of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, which oversees the Washington museum, and who knew of Dr. Milton through her work there, said she was a pioneer in studying the memorials and archives of the Nazi death camps throughout Europe.
        During a long hospitalization, Dr. Milton continued work on her latest book, ''The Camera as Weapon and Voyeur: Photography of the Holocaust as Memorial Evidence,'' which Dr. Friedlander said he plans to complete.
        Sybil Halpern was born on Oct. 6, 1941, in New York City to Jewish parents who had fled Austria when the Nazis came to power.
        After graduating from the High School of Music and Art, she received a bachelor's degree from Barnard College in 1962, a master's the next year and a doctorate from Stanford University in modern German history in 1971.
        Dr. Milton's marriage to Daniel Milton ended in divorce. She is survived by Professor Friedlander.
      