
        Dr. Miriam M. Salpeter, a neurobiologist whose research contributed to the understanding and treatment of neuromuscular disorders like myasthenia gravis, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. A resident of Ithaca, she was 71.
        The cause was thyroid cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Salpeter was chairwoman of the department of neurobiology and behavior at Cornell University from 1982 to 1988. At her death, she was a professor in the department, a position she had held since 1973.
        Dr. Salpeter specialized in electron microscopy and the study of regeneration and synapses, the minute space between nerve or muscle cells through which nerve impulses are transmitted. She wrote about 150 scientific papers and edited several books on the subject, including ''The Vertebrate Neuromuscular Junction.''
        An expert in cell biology, she teamed with Dr. Lewis Bachmann, an Austrian scientist, and Dr. Edwin E. Salpeter, her husband, to invent a technique that lets scientists see individual signaling molecules and to determine their position and quantity in cells, crucial measurements.
        She later applied the discovery of the technique, quantitative electron microscopic radiography, to biological questions related to synapses.  The technique shed new light on the function of the neuromuscular synapse and the disorders associated with it. One such disorder, myasthenia gravis, stems from faulty nerve conduction. It often causes serious chronic muscle weakness in the face and neck, resulting in drooping eyelids, slurred speech and double vision.
        Known as Mika, she was born Mirle Mark in Riga, Latvia. Her family moved to Canada and, in 1945, on to New York, where she graduated Phi Beta Kappa in psychology from Hunter College in 1950.
        She received a Ph.D. in psychobiology and neuroanatomy at Cornell in 1953 and did postgraduate work in neuroanatomy and cell biology at Cornell and Case Western Reserve University.
        Besides her husband, a Cornell professor emeritus, she is survived by two daughters, Judy Salpeter of Berkeley, Calif., and Dr. Shelley Salpeter of Woodside, Calif.; a sister, Naomi Lasher of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      