
        Anne Hebert, a poet and novelist who brought the violent passions of her native rural Quebec to wider audiences in France and the United States, died on Jan. 23 at a hospital in Montreal. She was 83 and lived in Quebec City.
        Part of a post-World War II generation of Quebecois intellectuals who breathed new life into fading language and cultural links with France, Ms. Hebert spent most of the last half century in Paris, explaining once: ''Montreal is too American, Quebec City is too small, and Paris is very, very beautiful.''
        Despite the distractions of Paris, Ms. Hebert set seven of her eight novels in the rural Quebec she had known as a child. Reflecting on her trans-Atlantic vision, she once told an interviewer: ''You need distance. It helps you to better reflect on the issues and places you are writing about.''
        Born in 1916 in a village outside of Quebec City, she spent her teenage years battling a series of life-threatening illnesses -- appendicitis, pleurisy and scarlet fever. Often isolated in quarantine, she voraciously read books and poetry, with many of the volumes supplied by a favorite cousin, a poet. In 1939 she published her first poems. In 1999 she published her last work, ''Un Habit de Lumiere,'' a novel.
        Writing ''poetry is not the relaxation of the seventh day,'' she once said. ''It is thirst and hunger, bread and wine.'' Reflecting this serious, lifelong commitment to the writer's craft, she won Canada's most prestigious literary award, the Governor General's Award, at regular intervals: in 1960, in 1975 and in 1992.
        The tortured isolation of her adolescence resurfaced in poems and novels that revolved around violent themes, rape and murder, in rural Quebec.
        ''She stripped bare the lives of bourgeois families who hid their little hells,'' said Denise Boucher, a poet who is president of the Union of Quebec Writers. ''It was writing that rebelled against conformism.''
        In 1970 Ms. Hebert won wide acclaim for her novel ''Kamouraska,'' a tale of adultery and murder set in a small northern Quebec village of her ancestors. In 1973 Claude Jutra turned the novel into a critically acclaimed movie, casting the French-Canadian actress Genevieve Bujold in the lead. Yves Simoneau based a movie on another of her novels, ''Les Fous de Bassan,'' translated into English as ''In the Shadow of the Wind.''
        In 1982 France awarded the Prix Femina to this book, a dark tale about the disappearance of two teenage girls from an isolated English-speaking community in Quebec's Gaspe peninsula in the 1930's.
        ''She used words like jewels, like gemstones that were sharp, clear and fine,'' said Sheila Fischman, who translated Ms. Hebert's last seven novels into English. The most recent translation was published last year under the title ''Am I Disturbing You?''
        Ms. Hebert, who never married, often said she would have liked to have had children but could not reconcile the demands of writing with the demands of motherhood.
      