
        Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 61.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter Naima Hazelton.
        Because Ms. Lee performed in two radically different styles, her singing was difficult to categorize. One of her voices was dry, slow and breathy,  influenced by Billie Holiday and Dinah Washington.
        In 1961 she and a classmate from Bard College, the pianist Ran Blake, performed as a duo at the Apollo Theater's Amateur Night contest. They won, and the album they later recorded, ''The Newest Sound Around'' (later reissued on CD as ''The Legendary Duets''), has remained a cult favorite.
        In jazz standards and Thelonious Monk tunes on the album, Ms. Lee and Mr. Blake subtracted swing, but added intellectual coolness, abstruse piano harmonies and vocal influences from Holiday and Washington; the record is a series of minimalist dreams. (In 1989 she and Mr. Blake  recorded a duet album in the same style, ''You Stepped Out of a Cloud.'')
        In her other vocal style, Ms. Lee approached words as sounds; this voice was harsh and booming, and she used her teeth, lips and tongue to wring drama out of each syllable, presaging singers like Diamanda Galas. In the mid-1960's she was a multidisciplinary artist, writing music with members of the Fluxus school like Alison Knowles and Dick Higgins, and gradually becoming more aligned with the rest of the late-1960's avant-garde in jazz.
        When she met and fell in love with the vibraphonist and composer Gunter Hampel in 1967, she began 20 years of collaborations with him in different jazz-related forms.
        While at Bard, Ms. Lee had studied child psychology and in 1970 was awarded a Martin Luther King Fellowship for Urban Studies by New York University to develop a curriculum for elementary school students that combined music and dance with academic subjects.
        She shuttled between New York and Europe until the late 1980's, living and working with Mr. Hampel, performing in duets, small groups and big bands, as well as conducting clinics and workshops; the couple made some 25 albums together, many of them for Mr. Hampel's own label, Birth.
        Ms. Lee also recorded with Marion Brown, Andrew Cyrille, Carla Bley, Peter Kowald and Reggie Workman, among others. She was active as a composer, combining vocal jazz with music and dance, working often with the choreographer Mickey Davidson.
        She lived in New York from 1994 to 1996 and for the last five years  taught music and movement at conservatories in Antwerp, Belgium,  and in The Hague.
        In addition to Ms. Hazelton of Los Angeles, she is survived by another daughter, Cavana Lee-Hampel of Berlin; a son, Ruomi Lee-Hampel of New York; and a grandson.
      