
        Sonja Bullaty, a photographer noted for lyrical composition and startling use of color and light in a vast body of work created during a five-decade collaboration with her husband, Angelo Lomeo, died on Oct. 5 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 76, and had homes in Manhattan and Bellmont, Vt.
        The cause was cancer, Mr. Lomeo said.
        Born in Prague into a Jewish banking family, Ms. Bullaty received her first camera at 14, a consolation gift from her father for having to abandon school and normal teenage activities as their world darkened with the approach of war.
        ''I have loved the camera ever since, because it gave me joy and it gave me a life,'' she said. ''In the following difficult years I had no camera but often saw things indelibly etched on my mind. Perhaps to this day I search for some of those missing images.''
        She was deported to Poland on her 18th birthday and spent the next four years in captivity, first in the Lodz Ghetto, then in the Auschwitz and Gross-Rosen concentration camps. Toward the end of the war, she escaped a death march near Dresden, which was then in flames, by hiding with a girlfriend in a haystack in the barn where the prisoners had been held for the night. Although Nazi soldiers, armed with pitchforks, were sent back to roust the women, they remained undetected, and Ms. Bullaty managed by stay alive until liberation allowed her to return to Prague.
        There, she discovered that none of her family had survived.
        Eventually, she sought out the well-known Czech photographer Josef Sudek and over time became what he called his ''apprentice-martyr,'' mixing chemicals for the darkroom, filing negatives and absorbing the unwritten rules of composition as she watched him print his dark, moody, almost abstract works. Master and pupil, they shared an affinity for the simplicity of windows and the mystery of reflections, and a fondness for patriotic kitsch and the seemingly banal. Ms. Bullaty wrote about her mentor in a 1978 book, ''Sudek.''
        In 1947, she arrived in New York, her boat fare paid by distant relatives who found her name on a survivors' list and invited her to stay with them.
        That same year, she met Mr. Lomeo when she inquired over an intercom about a darkroom in the building he managed and he went in search of the woman behind a voice he called ''the most beautiful I had ever heard.'' He offered her a gift of apples, and they became almost immediately inseparable. They married in 1951, and for five decades lived and worked together while managing to retain their individual visual perspectives. He is her only survivor.
        During the next decade, the couple built a reputation photographing paintings and sculptures in museums and galleries.
        They began shooting in black and white and were well into their joint career when they turned, in the early 1970's, to the vivid, saturated color now associated with them.
        Critics often remarked on the painterly aspects of their compositions, on the evocations of Hopper and Magritte, of van Gogh, Monet, Cezanne and the Venetian colorists.
        Together they made six books, ''Provence,'' ''Tuscany,'' ''Venice and the Veneto,'' ''Circle of Seasons: Central Park Celebrated,'' ''Vermont in All Weathers,'' and ''America America,'' published this year by Abbeville Press. Their photographs appeared in Life, Time and Audubon magazines and have been exhibited in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the International Center of Photography and George Eastman House in Rochester.
        ''I want to express with it what I see, experience and feel, a world real or surreal, sad or funny, but a world uniquely my own,'' Ms. Bullaty said of the guiding force behind her work. ''Perhaps to live I needed to know there is beauty.''
      