
        Mireille Johnston, an author and television figure widely known for her cookbooks on French regional cuisines, died Oct. 5 at her home in Paris. She was 65.
        Her death was unexpected, and the cause was not immediately clear, her family said.
        Mrs. Johnston was born in France, received degrees from French and American universities, married an American in 1959 and lived for years in the United States before returning to France in 1977. She was bilingual and better known to Americans and Britons than to the French.
        Her first cookbook, ''The Cuisine of the Sun'' (Biscuit Books, 1976), was applauded by the food critic Mimi Sheraton in The New York Times Book Review.
        The book ''stays within the boundaries of Provence, concentrating on the author's native city, Nice,'' Ms. Sheraton wrote. ''There are wonderfully clear, complete and authentic recipes,'' she added. ''Appetizers, soups, fish and vegetable dishes are strong points in this collection, all so appetizing it was hard to read through without dashing into the kitchen to try some.''
        In working on that book, Mrs. Johnston recalled last year, ''I wrote a sort of cookbook about my experiences, and I realized food was the key to so much -- a way of observing pleasures and economic trends in society.''
        Her next cookbook, ''The Cuisine of the Rose'' (1982), was about classical Burgundian and Lyonnais cooking. The work was praised by other food connoisseurs, especially for its recipe for chicken with crawfish or shrimp.
        Mrs. Johnston's book ''The French Family Feast'' (1988) was about home cooking and family dining traditions.
        She also commented on French cuisine for American television. And she chatted with cooks and producers of food in various parts of France on two series of BBC television programs, titled ''A Cook's Tour of France,'' which were broadcast and rebroadcast in the 1990's.
        She wrote two volumes, based on the series and bearing its title, about French regional cuisines and cultures. The volumes were published in the 90's -- first separately, then as a single book.
        Her parents were Jean-Philippe and Marguerite Sigard Busticaccia.
        From 1961 to 1968, she was an instructor in French literature, successively, at Yale, Barnard and Sarah Lawrence.
        She is survived by her husband, Thomas M. C. Johnston, who is a former aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and two daughters, Margaret-Brooke Johnston-Clarke and Elizabeth Johnston, both of Paris.
      