
        Gwen Verdon, whose high-kicking artistry, flaming red hair and head-turning figure made her an unforgettable presence in musicals like ''Can-Can,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''Chicago,'' died yesterday in Woodstock, Vt. She was 75 and had homes in Bronxville, N.Y., and Quogue, N.Y.
        She died at the home of her daughter, Nicole Fosse.
        Widely regarded as the best dancer ever to brighten the Broadway stage, Ms. Verdon was also a performer who brought more than physical excitement to her roles. A highly capable actress as well as an exceptional dancer, she was adept at enriching the characters she played. Whether oozing seductive come-ons as the Devil's sexy troubleshooter in ''Damn Yankees'' or brooding over a whiskey as a disillusioned prostitute in a waterfront dive in ''New Girl in Town,'' a musical adaptation of  O'Neill's ''Anna Christie,'' she always reached for, and found, her character's heart.
        The League of American Theaters and Producers said yesterday that the lights of Broadway's marquees would be dimmed in her memory at 8 p.m. last night.
        Ms. Verdon's first Broadway success was explosive. In 1953 she auditioned for the Cole Porter musical ''Can-Can,'' and won a part as a featured dancer in the show, which was written and directed by Abe Burrows and had choreography by Michael Kidd. The show's star was the temperamental French actress and singer Lilo, who was not amused by the way audiences were applauding this redheaded newcomer during out-of-town tryouts and who saw to it that Ms. Verdon's part was cut back. Ms. Verdon, in turn, was disgusted enough to announce that she was quitting the show, and maybe even giving up dancing.
        But on opening night on Broadway,  she delivered a fiery Apache dance that brought the audience to its feet -- and kept them there. She was already back in her dressing room for a costume change when one of the producers came pounding in to tell her that the audience was chanting her name and cheering and that she had to come back for a curtain call so that the show could continue. She took her bows, wearing a bathrobe, and knew she had arrived. Brooks Atkinson, in his review in The New York Times, cheered the ''impudence, recklessness and humor'' of her dancing and called her ''the practical star of the show.'' It was a late arrival for a dancer -- she was 28 and had been performing since the age of 3 -- but it was unforgettable.
        ''Can-Can'' made Ms. Verdon a marquee name and brought her her first Tony Award. Nevertheless, she left the show before it ended its run and returned to working with the Hollywood choreographer Jack Cole, whose assistant she had been in the early 1950's. She was working on a film with Cole when she was approached by the producers of a new Broadway musical to be called ''Damn Yankees.'' Written by George Abbott and Douglass Wallop, the story centered on a Faustian deal made by a passionate baseball fan who agrees to sell his soul to the Devil for the chance to help his beloved Washington Senators beat the New York Yankees.
        A Life and Career Linked to Fosse
        The show had music and lyrics by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross and was to be directed by Abbott. Ms. Verdon was offered the part of Lola, the Devil's No. 1 helper. She wasn't eager to return to Broadway despite her success in ''Can-Can,'' but finally signed on. It would be her first experience with an up-and-coming choreographer named Bob Fosse, fresh from his first Broadway success with ''The Pajama Game.''
        From that point on, Ms. Verdon's life and career were inextricably linked to Fosse. She was to become the living embodiment of his work on Broadway, and he in turn became her mentor, her lover and eventually her husband. Fosse soon found that working with Ms. Verdon was more of a collaboration than a tutorial. ''The happiest times I ever had with Gwen were when we were working together'' he said in an interview in 1971. ''They stimulated all sorts of things.''
        For Ms. Verdon, working with Fosse provided ''direction like I've never had in my life.'' Years later, looking back on that experience, she recalled how ''Bob choreographs down to the second joint of your little finger.''
        ''Damn Yankees'' opened to bravos in May 1955. Ms. Verdon's co-stars were Ray Walston as the Devil and Stephen Douglass as the hapless fan who is transformed into the home-run-hitting Joe Hardy. As Lola, Ms. Verdon brought the house down with her slinky rendition of ''Whatever Lola Wants,'' a locker-room seduction scene in which her sultry yet playful striptease for Shoeless Joe was hot enough to tempt the Devil himself. ''Damn Yankees'' racked up over a thousand performances and brought Ms. Verdon her second Tony. It was an impressive showing for a performer who spent her early childhood years laced into orthopedic boots to correct legs that had been weakened and deformed by a series of illnesses.
        Gwyneth Evelyn Verdon was born on Jan. 16, 1925, in Culver City, Calif. Her parents were British expatriates. Her mother, Gertrude, had been a member of Denishawn, the influential modern dance troupe.Her father, Joseph, was an electrician at MGM. Show business was part of the household, and baby Gwyneth was pointed toward the stage from the time she could walk. When she wasn't wearing those knee-high corrective boots, she was being taught basic ballet, ballroom dancing and learning how to tap and do the old soft-shoe. At age 6, she was already performing in theaters where she was billed as ''the fastest little tapper in the world.'' By the time she graduated from high school, her career seemed well on its way.
        But then, at 17, she eloped with a writer for The Hollywood Reporter, James Henaghan. The marriage lasted five years, until Mr. Henaghan's freewheeling lifestyle brought it to an end. The couple had a son, Jimmy, and after the divorce Ms. Verdon left him in the care of her parents and resumed her career.
        She auditioned for Cole and was hired by the talented, ferociously  abrasive dance director. She became a member of Cole's troupe for five years and made her Broadway debut in his 1950 flop, ''Alive and Kicking.'' Cole's connections with Hollywood studios brought her work as a ''specialty dancer'' in several films, including ''On the Riviera.'' She also coached stars like Jane Russell in the art of moving sexily on screen.
        When Mr. Kidd made his offer of a part in ''Can-Can,'' she was weary of anonymity, weary of Cole -- a perfectionist given to tantrums -- and ready to leave Hollywood for a second chance at success on Broadway. She wouldn't be seen on screen again until 1958, when she got star billing opposite Tab Hunter in the film adaptation of ''Damn Yankees.''
        Ms. Verdon's fourth Broadway show was ''New Girl in Town,'' based on O'Neill's bleak tale about a waterfront prostitute's redemption through love. Directed by Abbott, with music and lyrics by Bob Merrill and choreography by Bob Fosse, ''New Girl in Town'' opened in May 1957 with Ms. Verdon in the title role. Brooks Atkinson called her performance ''sobering and admirable'' but found the show an uneasy blend of the antic and tragic. Nevertheless, Ms. Verdon came away with Tony No. 3, which she shared with her co-star, Thelma Ritter.
        The musical that became the perfect showcase for Ms. Verdon's gifts as both dancer and actress was also the first of her shows to be both choreographed and directed by Fosse. The 1959 ''Redhead,'' which had music by Albert Hague and lyrics by Dorothy Fields had been written for the British music hall star Beatrice Lillie. But Ms. Lillie turned out to be otherwise engaged and Ms. Verdon agreed to star on the condition that Fosse be the director.
        Ms. Verdon was cast as Essie Whimple, a shy worker in a London waxworks museum. It was a role in which she had ample opportunity to display her acting talent. And in the dances created for her by Fosse, she did everything from a tango to a ragtime strut, from Chaplinesque comedy to a brassy music-hall routine.She won another Tony Award, her fourth.
        The following year, when ''Redhead'' was on tour in Chicago, Miss Verdon and Fosse were married, and by the time the tour reached Los Angeles she had decided to retire from show business with the intention of concentrating on family life. In 1963 their daughter, Nicole, was born. She is also survived by her son, Jimmy Henaghan of Los Angeles; four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        Dance-Hall Hostess With Heart
        It wasn't until 1966 that Ms. Verdon returned to the stage, in ''Sweet Charity.'' The musical had its unlikely roots in Fellini's film classic ''Nights of Cabiria.'' Once again, Fosse was director and choreographer. Ms. Verdon played the role immortalized by Giulietta Masina although the character had been changed from a Roman prostitute to a New York dance-hall hostess.
        Even though the critics were less than ecstatic about ''Sweet Charity,'' Ms. Verdon was given numbers like ''Hey, Big Spender'' that added to her legend as a peerless performer on Broadway. The musical ran for more than 600 performances and became something of a cult favorite long after it closed. But increasing fatigue led Ms. Verdon to surrender the lead to Helen Gallagher before the show's run ended. When the 1968 Hollywood film version was being cast, Ms. Verdon lost out to the younger Shirley MacLaine.
        Meanwhile, Fosse's open infidelities were disrupting their marriage, and by 1971 the couple were legally separated although they continued to work together on occasion and were never divorced.
        A Chance To Play Roxie
        In 1972, with her career as a dancer clearly drawing to a close, Ms. Verdon tried her hand at a thriller called ''Children! Children!'' which quickly flopped. But there was one more Broadway musical waiting in the wings and it would reunite Ms. Verdon and Fosse once again, onstage if not in marriage.
        ''Chicago,'' which began life as a stage play in the 20's and then became a vehicle for Ginger Rogers in the 1942 film ''Roxie Hart,'' was a show Ms. Verdon had wanted to do for years. When Fosse decided to take it on as a musical, and John Kander and Fred Ebb signed on to write the score, Ms. Verdon at last got her chance to play Roxie, a woman jailed, tried and acquitted for shooting her lover.
        When it opened in 1975, ''Chicago'' won applause for its three leads, Ms. Verdon, Chita Rivera and Jerry Orbach. Clive Barnes in The Times saluted ''three superlative, knock-em-in-the-aisles performances by three stars who glitter like gold dust all evening,'' but most of the critics found it too determinedly seedy and cynical for its own good. It proved to be Ms. Verdon's farewell to Broadway. Her successor in the role was Ann Reinking, Fosse's companion, who also restaged Fosse's choreography for the show's highly successful revival in 1996.
        At Fosse's request, Ms. Verdon served as superviser of his 1978 musical, ''Dancin,' '' and also worked with him on his 1979 autobiographical film, ''All That Jazz.''
        In 1983 Ms. Verdon appeared in a made-for-television movie, ''Legs,'' as the choreographer of the Rockettes. Her television appearances included ABC's daytime serial ''All My Children.''
        The urge to perform also drew her back to Hollywood in the 1980's. She had a small role ''The Cotton Club'' (1984), and was part of a lauded acting ensemble in ''Cocoon'' (1985).
        In 1999 she made an offstage return to Broadway as the artistic adviser for the musical ''Fosse,'' a compilation of highlights from his career. Ms. Verdon was with Fosse in 1987 when he died of a heart attack at age 60 on a Washington sidewalk, minutes after the opening of the revival of ''Sweet Charity,'' which she had helped him reconstruct. She attended to his funeral and, despite their many marital difficulties and years of separation, wholeheartedly assumed the duties of devoted widow, nourishing and helping to preserve his dance legacy, in which she had played such a vital role.
        Their collaboration was relatively brief, but remarkably productive and intensely shared. Reflecting on their years together in an interview before Fosse's death, she said: ''I was a great dancer when he got hold of me, but he developed me, he created me.'' She made the most of it.
        Correction:  October 24, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary of the Broadway dancer Gwen Verdon on Thursday misstated the title of a song in the 1966 musical ''Sweet Charity'' and misattributed the performance. The title was ''Big Spender,'' not ''Hey, Big Spender,'' and the performance was by a group of dancers, not by Ms. Verdon.
      