
        Julie London, whose understated voice and striking honey-blond appearance made her one of the top female vocalists of the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 74.
        Miss London, who lived in the San Fernando Valley, suffered a stroke five years ago and was in poor health, a spokesman for Encino-Tarzana Regional Medical Center told The Associated Press.
        She was also an actress in scores of movies and television shows, including the popular role of Nurse Dixie McCall in ''Emergency!'' in the 1970's.
        Miss London went from playing bit parts in the early 1940's to starring roles and pin-up status among World War II servicemen. Then, in 1947, she married the actor Jack Webb, later famous on ''Dragnet,'' and stopped working to be a full-time wife and mother. After they divorced five years later, she became a serious singer under the tutelage of Bobby Troupe, a jazz musician and songwriter.
        Her first 45 single, released in 1955, was ''Cry Me a River,'' and it was included on her first album, ''Julie Is Her Name.'' More than three million copies of the album and single were sold. She made more than 30 albums.
        She was voted one of the top female vocalists of 1955, 1956 and 1957. On New Year's Eve 1959, she married Mr. Troupe, who died last year.
        Adjectives such as sexy, intimate, breathy, husky and suggestive were applied to her singing. The singer herself told Life magazine in 1957: ''It's only a thimbleful of a voice, and I have to use it close to the microphone. But it is a kind of oversmoked voice and it automatically sounds intimate.''
        Her sound and her looks were closely intertwined. Most of her albums were graced by sultry, yet sophisticated pictures of her.
        Miss London was born as Julie Peck in Santa Rosa, Calif., on Sept. 26, 1926. Her parents, Jack and Josephine Peck formed a song and dance team in vaudeville and radio. In 1929, they moved to San Bernardino, where her parents had a radio show on which Julie sometimes appeared. In 1941, they moved to Los Angeles and she graduated from Hollywood Professional High School.
        She then took a job as an elevator operator in a department store where she was discovered by talent agent Sue Carol, the wife of the actor Alan Ladd. She appeared in her first film, ''Nabonga,'' in 1944, and began singing with the Matty Malnech Orchestra. She met Mr. Webb who was then in the Marine Corps. They married in 1947, and she gave up her budding movie career to become a full-time wife and mother.
        They had two daughters, Stacy and Lisa. They divorced in 1953. After meeting Mr. Troupe she began singing again, recovering some of what she called sagging confidence.
        Her movie career also revived. She starred as an alcoholic singer in the 1956 film ''The Great Man.'' She then starred or co-starred in ''Man of the West,'' ''Voice in the Mirror,'' ''The George Raft Story'' and ''The Third Voice.'' She composed the title song for ''Voice in the Mirror.''
        In 1972, she began her role in ''Emergency!'' After the show ended in 1977, she did one last film before retiring from show business.
        She is survived by a daughter from her marriage to Mr. Webb, Lisa Breen of Manhattan Beach, Calif. She also left three children from her 39-year marriage to Mr. Troupe: a daughter, Kelly Ronick, and twin sons, Jody and Reese, all of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  October 23, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the singer and actress Julie London on Thursday misspelled the surname of her second husband, who died last year. He was Bobby Troup, not Troupe.
      