
        Lyn Austin, an innovative theatrical producer who, as the founder and head of the Music-Theater Group, discovered, nurtured and produced the work of Martha Clarke, Julie Taymor, Richard Foreman and other major experimental theater artists, died on Sunday in New York after being struck by a taxi. She was 78.
        The accident happened as Ms. Austin was crossing Eighth Avenue to return to her Chelsea apartment. She apparently died instantly, said Diane Wondisford, the general director of the Music-Theater Group. According to the police report, the accident was not hit-and-run, and no summons was issued to the driver.
        In a theatrical world in which many producers simply presented plays, Ms. Austin sought out new directors, playwrights and composers and inspired them to challenge themselves and to do their most adventurous work.
        Unassuming but secure in her judgments, a worker in the fields rather than an entrepreneur, she was indefatigable in her devotion to her artists and to theater as an art. She credited her associates with fearlessness in undertaking risky projects and embodied the same fearlessness in her life.
        ''Her approach to the theater was one of the utmost purity,'' said Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater. ''She had a direct, uncluttered pipeline from her heart and her mind to her artists.''
        In 1971 Ms. Austin gave up her successful career as a Broadway producer to develop bold new works in musical theater, or, more accurately, music-theater, a category she created to indicate a cross-pollination of the arts. Within this context, theater pieces combined aspects of dance and the visual arts.
        In its 30 years, the Music-Theater Group (based both in New York City and in the Berkshire area of Massachusetts) produced more than 100 shows and provided a continuing home for adventuresome talent. Along with Joseph Papp and Ellen Stewart, Ms. Austin was a prime progenitor of new theater.
        Ms. Taymor and Elliot Goldenthal made their theatrical breakthrough with ''Juan Darien'' for Ms. Austin's company. It was at Ms. Austin's suggestion that Ms. Clarke moved from choreography (with the Pilobolus Company) to directing. She began with ''Portraits'' and ''A Metamorphosis in Miniature,'' and then created her pivotal works, ''The Garden of Earthly Delights'' and ''Vienna: Lusthaus.''
        ''She didn't care what things cost or how long they took to create,'' Ms. Clarke said. ''For me, she had the spirit of Diaghilev.'' To pay for ''Vienna: Lusthaus,'' she recalled, Ms. Austin took out a second mortgage on one of her homes.
        Among the other artists whose work Ms. Austin produced were Stanley Silverman, Anne Bogart, David Del Tredici, Eve Ensler, John Kelly, Elizabeth Swados, Richard Peaslee, Bill Irwin and the team of Cornelius Eady and Deidre Murray, the authors of the musical ''Running Man,'' one of her recent projects.
        Explaining her shift into experimental theater, Ms. Austin said: ''I started out on Broadway. And I would see writers get absolutely crazed with anxiety because they'd have to write a scene overnight, and the next morning we'd have to rehearse it, and I thought: 'This is an inhuman system. We should figure out a better system.' ''
        As the producing director of the Music-Theater Group, she said, ''If something isn't quite right the first time around, we have time to fix it.''
        In many cases, the shows went on to wide success, like ''Juan Darien,'' which began Off Off Broadway and eventually reopened at Lincoln Center and led to Ms. Taymor's being asked to direct ''The Lion King'' on Broadway.
        At the same time, as a producer, Ms. Austin invested herself in the artists. If they had a project that seemed too daring for commercial theater, they knew that Ms. Austin would give it space and time to develop. As Ms. Taymor once said, Ms. Austin was interested in ''breaking boundaries.''
        Ms. Austin was born Evelyn Austin in Glen Ridge, N.J. She graduated from Vassar College and received a master's degree from Columbia University. After teaching English, she entered the theater, joining Thomas Noyes as a producer of Louis Peterson's ''Take a Giant Step'' on Broadway in 1953, followed by ''Copper and Brass,'' a musical comedy starring Nancy Walker; ''Joyce Grenfell Requests the Pleasure . . .''; and Nathaniel Benchley's ''Frogs of Springs.''
        For many years she was an associate of Roger L. Stevens on productions that included ''Mary, Mary,'' ''The Best Man,'' ''The Chinese Prime Minister,'' ''A Far Country,'' ''In the Summer House'' and ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad . . . .'' Through that association, she earned a reputation as a perceptive producer of Broadway plays. With Oliver Smith, she also produced Arthur Kopit's ''Indians'' and ''Adaptation/Next'' by Terrence McNally and Elaine May. In 1967 she turned her sights to Off Off Broadway and established the Loft Theater.
        In 1970 she became the executive director of the Berkshire Theater Festival. She resigned the following year and founded the Lenox Arts Center and the Music-Theater Group. When she began this organization, ''Nobody had any idea what I was talking about,'' she said. Soon  Music-Theater entered the stage lexicon, and more and more people became aware of the inventiveness of the artists who belonged to the group. From the beginning, she said, the atmosphere was ''relaxed but also rigorous.''
        With Ms. Austin's encouragement, Andre Gregory staged his imaginative version of ''Alice in Wonderland''; Mr. Foreman and Mr. Silverman crossed swords with Dada with ''Dr. Selavy's Magic Theater''; and Mr. Silverman staged ''The Mother of Us All'' by Gertrude Stein and Virgil Thomson. Mr. Irwin clowned in ''The Courtroom.'' Through the years, people in the Music-Theater Group reaped awards (four MacArthur ''genius'' grants and more than 20 Obies, including one for the company for sustained achievement).
        While other theaters disbanded, the Music-Theater Group remained a continuous and consistent producer of new work. As the 30th season began, Ms. Austin was busy with ''Swimming With Watermelons,'' a new piece by the creators of ''The Donkey Show''; another collaboration of Mr. Eady and Ms. Murray's; and a music-theater production from the hip-hop group The Roots. And she was planning a tour for Ms. Clarke's ''Vienna: Lusthaus.''
        Ms. Austin had homes in Stockbridge, Mass., and Pound Ridge, N.Y., as well as Manhattan. She is survived by a brother, John P. Austin of Palo Alto, Calif., and by Ms. Wondisford of the Music-Theater Group, her companion.
        She had a fervent interest in the outdoors and when she was not preoccupied with theater, she and Ms. Wondisford often went fly-fishing and took wilderness trips.
        Several years ago, when Ms. Austin was asked about the difficulties of creating experimental theater, she underscored the fact that she trusted  her artists and encouraged them to explore their ''storage tank'' of ideas and images.
        She said that while watching a work in process, she didn't know how it would turn out. Ms. Austin added, with characteristic idealism, ''I just sit tight, and look at the sunset.''
      