
        Jane B. Davies, an independent architectural historian whose devotion took her from reference librarian at Columbia University to pre-eminent authority on the 19th-century American architect Alexander J. Davis, died on Feb. 9. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        Although she never received a degree in art or architectural history, Ms. Davies was a constant presence  at universities, libraries and museums that harbored information on  her chosen subjects, A. J. Davis and the romantic movement in American 19th-century architecture.
        With no more than her interest and a librarian's salary, she also became an important collector of Davis's prints, drawings and Gothic-style furniture. Some of the pieces are now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; the rest of her collection will go to the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University.
        ''She was the person who published the most articles on A. J. Davis,'' said Amelia Peck, an associated curator in the department of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''If anyone wanted to know about any facet of Davis's career, Jane was the authority to call.''
        Ms. Davies was born in 1913 in Amboy, Ill. The daughter of a small-town banker, Ms. Davies told her niece that she had ''always felt a hankering to go to New York.''
        After receiving her B.A. at Wellesley College in 1935 and teaching for several years at girls' preparatory schools in Illinois and Colorado, she earned degrees in German history and library science at Columbia University in 1942 and 1944. Ms. Davies became a reference librarian and rare books cataloguer at Columbia.
        In 1942 she married a musician, Lyn Davies, against her father's wishes. Her brother, Warren H. Badger, a lawyer, gave the couple money that they quickly spent on acquiring an architectural print by Piranesi. Mr. Davies became an organist and choirmaster and in his free time a composer. He died in 1994.
        Ms. Davies's interest in Davis began in the late 1950's. At the time, nobody else was studying Davis, a  prolific contributor to Victorian picturesque architecture and the designer of landmarks including the Wadsworth Atheneum (with Ithiel Town) in Hartford; Lyndhurst in Tarrytown, N.Y., and the United States Customs House in Manhattan (with Town and others).
        Ms. Davies, who friends described as a tiny woman with a quiet but commanding presence, was soon a familiar figure poring over Davis documents at Avery Library, the New-York Historical Society, the New York Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum.
        When financial problems led the the New-York Historical Society to sell some Davis drawings, Ms. Davies bought several and donated them to Avery Library. She wrote frequently about Davis for scholarly journals and exhibition catalogs and contributed the article on Davis to the Macmillan Encyclopedia of Architects.
        Her introduction to the 1980 reprint of Davis's Rural Residences, the first American pattern book of architectural house plans, was hailed by the Journal of Architectural Historians as ''a herculean task'' prepared by ''a scholar known to every historian of American architecture.''
        The greatest recognition of her achievement came with the 1992-93 exhibition ''Alexander Jackson Davis, American Architect,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for which she was the consulting curator.
        She is survived by her brother, of Dixon, Ill.
        For more than 30 years, Ms. Davies worked on a critical biography of the architect, which she may not have completed; other architectural historians did not produce such a biography, leaving the field to her.
        ''We were all rooting for her to get her book, the definitive study on Davis, done,'' said Richard Jenrette, the financier and collector of 19th-century American houses. ''I wouldn't be surprised if she had it hidden away somewhere.''
      