
        Eugenia Rawls, a theater actress who portrayed Tallulah Bankhead and others in one-woman shows, died on Nov. 8 in Denver. She was 87.
        A native of Macon, Ga., Miss Rawls first took the stage at age 4 in a local production of ''Madame Butterfly,'' encouraged by her grandmother and two aunts, with whom she lived during most of her early life. After attending Wesleyan College in Macon she made her Broadway debut in 1934 in Lillian Hellman's ''Children's Hour.''
        As an understudy for the actress playing Bankhead's daughter in Hellman's ''Little Foxes'' in 1939, Miss Rawls met the woman who would become her mentor and lifelong friend. ''Who are you?'' Bankhead reportedly demanded. ''You look enough like me to be my own child.'' Weeks later, Miss Rawls was playing Alexandra to Bankhead's Regina Giddens on Broadway, after which they toured 104 American cities.
        Bankhead was matron of honor at Miss Rawls's 1941 wedding to Donald Seawell, a lawyer and the founder and chairman of the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, and she later became godmother to the couple's two children.
        Miss Rawls performed in Lillian Smith's ''Strange Fruit''; with Jose Ferrer in ''The Shrike''; with Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne in ''The Great Sebastians''; in Noel Coward's ''Private Lives''; and in Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie.''
        In 1971, three years after Bankhead's death, Miss Rawls developed ''Tallulah, a Memory.'' She performed the one-woman work at Lincoln Center, which commissioned it, at the Kennedy Center and the ANTA Playhouse in Los Angeles before turning it into a book in 1979.
        In 1972, Miss Rawls became the first American actress to perform at the Abbey Theater in Dublin. She also developed two other solo shows in the 1970's: ''Affectionately Yours, Fanny Kemble'' and ''Women of the West,'' and published a volume of poetry, ''A Moment Ago,'' in 1984.
        In her later years, she turned to television, appearing on ''As the World Turns'' and ''The Guiding Light.'' She read the signature work of Lillian Smith in the PBS production of ''Memory of a Large Christmas,'' first broadcast in 1996.
        A new theater is to be named for her at the Auraria Higher Education Center, home to the University of Colorado at Denver, Metropolitan State College and Denver Community College.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Brook Ashley of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Brockman Seawell of New York; two brothers, Hubert F. Rawls Jr. of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Richard Russell Rawls of Fernandina Beach, Fla.; a sister, Dorothy Louise Rawls Tuttle of California; a granddaughter; and two great-grandchildren.
      