
        Andy Logan, the reporter whose witty, elegant and gently sarcastic voice dissected the goings-on at New York's City Hall for The New Yorker magazine for 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80 years old and had been ill with pancreatic cancer.
        For two decades, Ms. Logan was the dean of the City Hall press corps, a diminutive figure in black with an encyclopedic knowledge of the city's social and political history. She was a mentor to dozens of younger reporters and most days carried cookies to the press room, known as Room 9, for the harried reporters she referred to as kids. She covered five mayors, from John V. Lindsay to Rudolph W. Giuliani, and was fond of using their own words to expose hypocrisies and explode myths.
        ''The world I cover is so full of vaudeville,'' she told a reporter in 1992. ''The worst thing you can do to politicians is to quote them verbatim. Such naked foolishness.''
        Ms. Logan was born in Cleveland on Feb. 6, 1920, and grew up in Ohio and North Carolina. She attended Swarthmore College, where she wrote fiction and started a life of letters. She won an O. Henry Award in 1941 for her first published short story, ''The Visit.''
        It was at college that Ms. Logan changed her name from Isabel Ann to Andy. She detested the nickname Izzy and chose Andy in honor of the New Yorker essayist E.B. White, who was also known as Andy.
        The New Yorker hired her as soon as she graduated, in 1942, and she became one of the first women to write for ''The Talk of the Town.''  During a half century with the magazine, she wrote more than 260 articles, along with three short stories and four poems. Her subjects ranged from the Nuremberg trials, to 19th century New York scandals, to the yearly review of toys at Christmastime.
        In 1943, she married Charles S. Lyon, who was a deputy chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials and later became a United States assistant attorney general. They had seven children. He died in 1989 at the age of 72. She is survived by two sons:  Brooks, of Canandaigua, N.Y., and Jonathan, of New York City; a daughter, Emily Lyon, of Cambridge, Mass.; and one granddaughter, Corinna Lyon.
        ''There was nothing to be compared with coming home after school and sitting down with my parents,'' Ms. Logan's daughter said. ''They would talk about everything, and make it so clear.''
        Ms. Logan was also the author of two historical books: In ''Against the Evidence'' (McCall, 1970), she chronicled the 1912 trial of a police lieutenant, Charles Becker, who was convicted, wrongly she maintained, of shooting a smalltime gambler. She also published ''The Man Who Robbed the Robber Barons'' (W.W. Norton & Company, 1965), an account of the career of Col. William d'Alton Mann.
        But it was at City Hall that she would become a local literary legend. Her first About City Hall column appeared in 1969, though her expert knowledge of city politics stretched back to the La Guardia administration.
        ''I can scare the hell out of the kids by telling them that the mayor when I first came down here was La Guardia,'' she said in 1992. ''They help me in and out of the room for at least an hour after that.''
        In her City Hall reporting, she earned a reputation for saving every scrap of news about the political figures she covered and forgetting nothing they had said. Her columns often pointed out the comic side of politics, exposing where noble words hide selfish designs.
        ''She wrote about the city and City Hall as if it were a passing parade, with a great sense of irony and wit,'' said David Remnick, the editor of the New Yorker. ''To me, she was like Murray Kempton, an essential voice and treasure of New York.''
        Her columns often did not endear her to mayors. Mayor Edward I. Koch once said he detested her and ''disinvited'' her to the annual Christmas party for reporters at Gracie Mansion, an insult she wore like a badge of honor.
        ''She believed in flaying, and most people don't like to be skinned,'' Mr. Koch said yesterday. But in the same breath, he praised her reporting. ''She was a repository of City Hall history,'' he said. ''She had covered so many mayors and kept minute records of everything they said.''
        Her unpopularity with some politicians may have reflected her unwillingness to buy their favorite mantras. Ms. Logan's writing often pierced political rhetoric. Writing about Mayor David N. Dinkins in 1992, for instance, she said:
        ''The theme of the speech was a message that the mayor delivers daily, and sometimes more often, at City Hall: that the Reagan-Bush administrations abandoned the nation's cities, and particularly this one, and that the federal government should resume its old, generous (Democratic) ways -- that is, 'Send money.' Back in the years when Nelson Rockefeller was New York's governor, he had a habit of working the phrase 'Brotherhood of Man in the Fatherhood of God' so regularly into speeches that Albany reporters would simply write down 'bomfog'  and turn their attention elsewhere. At the Dinkins City Hall, when the mayor brings up the abandonment of cities, often at considerable length, reporters can write down 'ban-cit' and take five.''
        To her colleagues in Room 9, Ms. Logan was a teacher and inspiration. George Arzt, who covered city government for The New York Post for 18 years, recalled his first day on the job, when he was asked to cover the Board of Estimate, which he had never heard of before, and to untangle a complicated question pending before the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
        ''Andy Logan, who I had never met before, took me by the arm and said, 'Why do you have that wild look in your eyes,' and I said, 'I don't know what I'm doing,' '' he recalled. ''And she sat me down, told me what was going on and practically dictated the story to me.''
        Ms. Logan kept her office at The New Yorker until the end of her life.
        ''She was sort of the institutional memory of the place,'' said John Bennet, an editor at the magazine. Well into her seventies, colleagues said, she could still be found at her desk late into the evening or on Saturday mornings.
        Correction:  November 23, 2000, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Andy Logan, the longtime New York City Hall reporter for The New Yorker, referred imprecisely to her tenure. While her column, About City Hall, appeared from 1969 to 1994 and she was the acknowledged dean of the City Hall press corps for the last 20 years of that time, she wrote about municipal affairs both before and after the life of the column.
      