
        Ruth Belcher Dyk, one of the last surviving participants in the women's suffrage movement, died in her apartment in Rochester on Nov. 18. She was 99.
        In a life that included working with delinquent girls, writing three books on psychology and producing anthropological studies of Navajo Indians with her husband, she never lost her fierce commitment to equality.
        Only the protests of family members prevented her from going door to door in her wheelchair to canvass for Hillary Rodham Clinton's senatorial campaign in New York this fall. ''If I have learned one thing, New York needs a woman's touch,'' she said at rally for Mrs. Clinton on Aug. 22.
        ''My mother was a suffragette,'' she said in the opening line of the Ken Burns documentary on the suffragists, ''Not for Ourselves Alone: The Story of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony,'' which was shown last year on the Public Broadcasting System. Her choice of word was surprising, said her daughter, Penelope Carter, of Rochester.
        ''The word suffragette reminded her of the Rockettes,'' Ms. Carter said. ''She was a suffragist.''
        Mrs. Dyk's deepest inspiration was her mother, Annie Manson Belcher. She was one of the first women admitted to Tufts Medical School in the late 19th century, but school officials made her drop out when she married, Ms. Carter said. The free spirit of Mrs. Belcher, who by then was married to Arthur Fuller Belcher, a lawyer, is suggested by a family story of borrowing a minister's house for a Maine vacation. When a a house of ill repute next door burned down, Mrs. Belcher graciously invited the prostitutes to stay in the minister's house, engendering a local scandal.
        Mrs. Dyk and her mother walked side by side down Beacon Avenue in Boston to demand the vote. Both were overjoyed when the 19th Amendment became part of the Constitution on Aug. 26, 1920.
        ''We had worked so long,'' Mrs. Dyk said in the documentary. ''If you had worked years to do it, if you believed in it, if you thought great things were going to come out of it -- great in terms of the position of women in our culture, position of women in jobs, position of women everywhere -- and this was going to improve that . . . I mean lives would be changed.''
        Later in the documentary, she said she feared that women's lives ''haven't changed as much as we hoped for.'' She told friends and family members that if women had voted as a bloc, they could have effected more change. ''I don't know if we did enough with it,'' she said.
        Mrs. Clinton, however, lauded her contributions in a statement after her death. ''Her devotion to her family, her profession and her work in both the local and global community is an example for women everywhere,'' the first lady said.
        Mrs. Dyk was born in Portland, Me., on March 25, 1901. She was proud to say that her pedigree included several families from the Mayflower, including Myles Standish. She grew up in Newton Center, Mass., and, like her mother, attended Wellesley College in Wellesley, Mass. She earned a master's degree in economics from Simmons College in Boston, and did further graduate work at the University of Wisconsin and the University of California at Berkeley.
        She worked as a psychiatric social worker with delinquent girls in upstate New York, where, among other things, she taught her clients to play pool. She worked as a researcher at what was then called the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York in Brooklyn, and was co-author of three books: ''Anxiety in Pregnancy and Childbirth'' (Hoeber, 1950); ''Psychological Differentiation'' (Wiley, 1962); and ''Left Handed'' (Columbia University Press, 1980).
        She completed the last volume with her husband, Walter Dyk, an anthropologist who studied Navajo Indians. His principal work, called ''a revelation of the real life of the tribe'' by The New Yorker, was in the form of an autobiography of one man, ''Son of Old Man Hat,'' (Harcourt Brace, 1938).
        After his death in 1972, Mrs. Dyk took transcripts of taped conversations and other research and wrote ''Left Handed,'' a continuation of the first book.
        Ms. Carter said her mother's strong will was evident when Mr. Dyk was suffering from Parkinson's disease and cancer and she was juggling two jobs and raising two children in the 1950's and 1960's. ''What choice did I have? I did what I had to do,'' she said.
        But when she had choices, she took an unconventional approach. ''One of my earliest memories was her looking me in the eye and saying with just a bit of venom, 'Don't be so good,' '' Ms. Carter said. ''She meant you've to have some spirit, go against the grain.''
        Mrs. Dyk emphasized to her daughter that it was not necessary to marry, and that it was important to get the education that would allow her to live independently. When Ms. Carter began smoking, Mrs. Dyk said it was fine with her. With nothing to rebel against, the girl quit the next day.
        In addition to Ms. Carter, Mrs. Dyk is survived by her son, Timothy, of Washington, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Dyk smoked into her 80's, drove into her 90's and voted in the recent election. She recalled how she felt when she was among the first women to vote.
        ''I was terribly frightened that I would push the wrong lever,'' she said. ''I still go into that booth with the same feeling -- what if I voted Republican?''
      