
        Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as ''my finest soldier,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 101.
        Throughout their 27-year marriage, the couple, who met when she was 36 and he was nearly 20 years older than her and was the survivor of an earlier unhappy marriage, maintained an old-fashioned formality. Mrs. MacArthur addressed her husband in the presence of others as ''the general.'' He called her ''ma'am'' and in his later years, confided that she was his ''constant friend, sweetheart and devoted support.''
        Mrs. MacArthur, whom William Manchester, the MacArthur biographer, described as ''a poem of womanhood,'' married General MacArthur in New York in 1937. They had met two years previously when he was a fellow passenger on the S.S. President Hoover, en route to the Philippines to assume his duties as military adviser to the government there. Later, he became the supreme allied commander in the Southwest Pacific, waged the campaign against Japan and accepted the surrender of Japanese forces in 1945 in Tokyo Bay aboard the U.S.S. Missouri.
        When the war ended, he oversaw the occupation of Japan as supreme commander of allied forces in Japan. After North Korean forces invaded South Korea, he also became supreme commander of the United Nations forces in Korea until April 1951, when, in a dispute over the prosecution of the war, he was relieved of both commands by President Harry S. Truman. He returned to America and a hero's welcome and became chairman of Remington Rand and then of the Sperry Rand Corporation. He died in 1964.
        Mrs. MacArthur displayed an indomitable spirit and determination in the face of wartime trials.
        After the Japanese invaded the Philippines, it was decided to abandon Manila in 1942 and move the government to the island of Corregidor. Mrs. MacArthur packed a few necessities and, as she was leaving the apartment, she passed a cabinet containing the decorations awarded to her husband. She removed the medals from their cases, wrapped them in a towel and made room for them in her suitcase by discarding some of her own clothes.
        Later, when the military situation on Corregidor rapidly deteriorated, the general informed her that President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines had offered her and their young son, Arthur, passage to Australia. ''We have drunk from the same cup; we three shall stay together,'' she replied. The MacArthurs and their 4-year-old son lived in an underground bunker during months of bombardment before agreeing to evacuation on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's orders.
        Mrs. MacArthur, the former Jean Marie Faircloth, was born in Nashville on Dec. 28, 1898. Her father, Edward C. Faircloth, was a banker and businessman. She was 8 when her parents divorced and her mother, a native of Murfreesboro, Tenn., took her young daughter and her two sons, Cameron and Frederick, back to her birthplace.
        The head of the Murfreesboro household was her grandfather, Capt. Richard Beard, a Confederate veteran, and Mrs. MacArthur was raised in a home where a Confederate uniform was a badge of honor.
        Fellow members of the Daughters of the American Revolution recalled that ''every time Jean Faircloth heard a Fourth of July firecracker go off, she jumped to attention and saluted.'' Young men were advised that ''if you want to win Jean Marie, you better get a uniform.''
        Mrs. Faircloth married again in 1907 and there were two children of that marriage to Frederick Smith -- Harvard Smith and Donna Angeline Smith.
        Mrs. MacArthur was educated at Ward-Belmont College in Nashville and at Soule College in Murfreesboro, from which she graduated.
        As a young girl, she had not been close to her father, but as he grew older and wealthier, he frequently took her on trips and cruises with him. When he died, he left her a substantial fortune, and she used it to travel extensively, visiting friends in Manila, cruising in Europe and taking her half-sister on a South American cruise and her half-brother on a three-month round-the-world cruise.
        A vivacious woman with meticulous manners, Mrs. MacArthur took seriously the social duties connected with her husband's position, both in the military and later in private life. After his death, she refused to bask in reflected fame, leading a quiet social life within a select circle of well-known New Yorkers. She pursued her interests in fashion, theater and opera.
        Friends recalled that on one occasion at the Metropolitan Opera, she paused as she walked down the aisle to make sure that the plaque bearing her name was still attached to an orchestra seat. ''I paid $1,000 for it,'' she said.
        She also worked on behalf of several civic and philanthropic activities, and was honorary chairman of the board of the Gen. Douglas MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk, Va. In 1990, at age 91, with her friend Barbara Bush at her side, she cut the ribbon opening the research center of the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk, where her husband is buried.
        Mrs. MacArthur received the distinguished public service award from the Department of Defense in 1984, and in 1988, President Ronald Reagan presented her with the Medal of Freedom, the highest award given a civilian in peacetime, for her patriotic service to the nation. The government of the Philippines honored her in 1993 with its Legion of Merit medal. She was one of the few private citizens to receive a visit from the Emperor and Empress of Japan during their trip to the United States in 1994.
        One of her favorite stories when she reached the last decade of her life was about her conversation with the driver as she was bouncing around in a New York City taxi. ''I'm 90 years old,'' she said. ''Can you go a bit slower please?''
        ''I'm sorry, Mrs. MacArthur,'' the driver said. ''I remember you from the Philippines and how you bounced around in the jeeps there and it didn't bother you.''
        Her intimate friends also recalled that although she would order a martini ''to be social'' when dining out, she had earlier briefed the waiters and bartenders in her favorite restaurants on what that really meant. A martini glass filled with water and decorated with a lemon twist would be brought to her, and she would smile appreciatively as she sipped.
        She is survived by her son, Arthur, of New York City, and her half-sister, Angie McCarthy, of Murfreesboro, said Col. William J. Davis, executive director of the MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk.
        Mrs. MacArthur will be buried beside her husband at the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk after a private service for her on Wednesday, Colonel Davis said.
      