
        Amalia Hernandez, the founder of the internationally successful Ballet Folklorico de Mexico, died on Saturday in Mexico City. She was 83.
        Ms. Hernandez, a specialist in Mexican folk dance, created programs that resembled fiestas, notable for eye-catching choreography and colorful costumes. Her work included ensembles based on regional dances, hypothetical reconstructions of Aztec and Mayan ceremonies, scenes from Mexican history and evocations of village festivals.
        In a review in The New York Times in 1965, Allen Hughes said: ''The company's performances are splendidly polished. Everything, including much estimable and intricate dancing, is done with a smoothness that belies the complexity of the show as a whole.''
        One of her most famous works is  ''Deer Dance of the Yaqui Indians,'' based on a dance associated with this Mexican tribe. In Ms. Hernandez's version, a man wearing a headdress of antlers represents a deer pursued by hunters. The choreography is demanding and poignant. Commenting in The Times in 1976, Anna Kisselgoff called the dance ''a deeply moving testimony to the empathy of the hunters for the hunted.''
        ''This is the way of the world,'' she continued. ''Man must kill his prey, but he respects that prey and endows it with noble qualities.''
        Ballet Folklorico began as a company of eight in 1952. It gained national prominence in Mexico after being featured on weekly television programs in the 1950's.
        The company eventually had more than 300 members and a school of its own. It often sent groups on tour while other dancers continued to perform at the Palacio de Bellas Artes, the Mexico City opera house. Ballet Folklorico offered the first of many New York seasons in 1962 and was  popular at European dance festivals.
        Born into a wealthy ranching family, Ms. Hernandez had lessons in classical ballet as a young woman. Later, she studied with La Argentinita, a specialist in Spanish dance, and with the American-born choreographer who called herself Waldeen and helped introduce modern dance to Mexico. But Ms. Hernandez chose to specialize in native dances, reworking local traditions to make them effective for the stage.
        Discussing her approach in an interview in The Times in 1983, Ms. Hernandez observed: ''The authentic folklore was created either for a religious purpose or for fun, and dancing was basically something to do and not to watch. Folklore has to be theatricalized, adapted to the need of the theater and the audience.''
        She is survived by two daughters, Viviana Basantes and Norma Lopez Hernandez (Ms. Lopez helped Ms. Hernandez direct the company in recent years); a son, Jose Luis Martinez; and a grandson, Salvador Lopez, also with the company.
      