
        Baroness Ryder of Warsaw, whose deep sense of obligation to others and passion for charity work led her to build an international network of homes and treatment centers for the sick and disabled, died on Thursday at West Suffolk Hospital in Bury St. Edmunds, England. She was 77.
        A small woman of indomitable energy who ate sparingly and often got out of bed at 4:30 a.m. and who liked to supervise her dozens of projects herself and delegate as little as possible, Lady Ryder was gripped by the notion that she had a moral mission to help the less advantaged -- the poor, the sick, the displaced.
        She had a religious view of suffering and grace, once telling an interviewer, ''I believe that to be with people who are suffering, whoever they are, makes one humble.''
        Her name was familiar to the British public through the 500 or so Sue Ryder charity shops in cities and towns across the country. Sales from the stores, which volunteers run and sell both new and used goods, are used to raise money for the Sue Ryder Foundation, the group that runs the Sue Ryder centers. Lady Ryder bought her own clothes from the stores.
        She first got an inkling of what would be her life's work as a girl in Leeds, when her mother took her on mercy missions to the poor in the woeful slums there. Born Margaret Susan Ryder in 1923 into a prosperous farming family outside Leeds, Sue, as she was called, was the youngest of her mother's five surviving children.
        As the Depression ground on in the mid-1930's, the family fell on hard times and left the family home and moved to what had been a summer cottage in Thurlow, Suffolk.
        Sue Ryder, who once thought that she would become a nun, married a young naval officer at 18. He was killed in the war several weeks later.
        Lying about her age, she volunteered as a nurse and was soon sent to work at the Polish section of the Special Operations Executive, which ran spies and helped resistance organizations in enemy territory. Her work there gave her a lifelong sympathy for refugees and for prisoners and other casualties of war.
        It also left her with an abiding admiration for Poland. She took the name of the country's capital as part of her title when she was elevated to the House of Lords as a life peer in 1979.
        After the war, she worked in camps for displaced persons and, among other activities, organized trips to British vacation houses for survivors of concentration camp. She also did relief work in France, meeting the practical problems she encountered with a typically stubborn belief in her abilities. Once, a truck that she was driving laden with stoves and drugs to combat tuberculosis and typhus broke down in midjourney. She pushed it to the side of the road with the help of passers-by and proceeded to clean the carburetor and replace the spark plugs herself before setting off again.
        In 1953, she used a small inheritance and some borrowed money to found the Sue Ryder Foundation, whose symbol is rosemary, a sign of remembrance. The foundation was dedicated to the memory of those who had been killed in the two world wars.
        Soon after, she opened the first Sue Ryder Home, for disabled people. By 1965, she had established 30 homes, where those bearing the scars of the war lived in comfort and without restriction, in England, Germany, Greece, Poland and Yugoslavia.
        As Europe rebuilt itself after the war, Sue Ryder became a champion for the dispossessed. She traveled 50,000 miles a year, often driving, carrying supplies across the Continent, supervising the homebuilding and visiting refugees.
        Through the years, Lady Ryder's organization continued to expand. There are now 20 homes in Britain and 80 centers in 20 countries around the world. In Britain, the organization has 2,500 employees.
        There are residential centers and day-care centers that provide help for those with long-term illnesses and for those who need palliative care, and centers for people with neurological and degenerative diseases. Each year in Britain, 3,000 people are cared for at the residential centers, 12,000 visits are made to the day centers, and more than 37,000 home visits are made by the nursing staff.
        In 1998, Lady Ryder retired as a trustee of the organization that she founded as a dispute about its future raged. She founded a new group, the Bouverie Foundation. The Sue Ryder Foundation has been renamed Sue Ryder Care, and it is being reorganized and modernized.
        In 1959, Sue Ryder married Group Capt. Leonard Cheshire, a war hero and holder of the Victoria Cross. It was a true meeting of interests. Captain Cheshire, it happened, had his own charitable foundation, and he first met his future wife when she visited one of his homes for the disabled. Her husband. was elevated to the House of Lords as a life peer in 1991. He died the next year. The couple had two children, Jeremy and Elizabeth, who survive.
        In 1979, the Queen Mother opened the Sue Ryder Foundation Museum in Cavendish, with exhibitions that included Lady Ryder's war uniforms and a reconstruction of her mother's room. But Lady Ryder insisted that her work was about the people whom she helped rather than herself.
        The museum, she said, was a tribute ''to all those who suffered and who continue to suffer.''
        ''It is intended,'' she added, ''to show the misery in the world and the needs which exist more vividly than the written word could do. It is not dedicated to me.''
      