
        Ruth Mitchell, one of Broadway's best-known backstage bosses who parlayed her professional prowess and personal flair into a successful producing career, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 81.
        Ms. Mitchell hailed from the tough streets of Newark, and it showed in her decision to work as a stage manager, a thankless profession whose duties include everything from making sure that the actors' coffee is hot to untangling chorus girls involved in a dressing room brawl. In her own words, the only things Ms. Mitchell didn't have to worry about were ''singing the hit song or selling orange drink in the lobby.'' Everything else was in her bailiwick.
        By all accounts, she was up to the job, acting as both strict taskmaster for her producers and an advocate for the actors in her shows, which included landmark American musicals like ''West Side Story,'' ''Gypsy,'' ''The King and I'' and ''Bells Are Ringing.''
        Later, working with her longtime mentor, the director and producer Hal Prince, Ms. Mitchell also helped  produce ''Cabaret,'' ''Company'' and ''A Little Night Music,'' each of which won the Tony Award for best musical.
        A theater fan from early childhood, Ms. Mitchell attended dance classes and subsequently spent several summers hoofing on the summer theater circuit. Her stage managing career began in 1943 while she was a chorus girl in a Shubert musical entitled ''Cocktails at 5.'' But the show was ''lousy,'' she said in a 1958 interview, so she took refuge as the second assistant stage manager.
        Stage management quickly became her primary profession, and she soon found herself in charge of  shows with stars like Tallulah Bankhead, who once said that Ms. Mitchell would have been ''the most perfect person in the world if she could only play bridge.''
        Although no longer a professional actress, Ms. Mitchell never lost her flair for the dramatic. A small brunette, she had a fondness for capes and mink and often wore them on her opening nights.
        In 1949, she even took over a small role in the play ''Mister Roberts,'' with Henry Fonda, for a week when the actress playing the part went on vacation. And while Mr. Prince called her ''the chic-est stage manager on Broadway,'' Ms. Mitchell was also known to be able to out-curse the coarsest of stagehands.
        Her dedication and care for detail quickly became legendary on Broadway. She kept, for example, a complete list of the best doctors in every major city on the East Coast in case actors got sick on the road, as well as a list of popular bars and restaurants.
        On the opening night of ''She Loves Me'' in 1963, the curtain got stuck while rising during the overture. Ms. Mitchell, who was sitting in the audience in formal wear, climbed onstage to unhitch the curtain. She did, and the show, as they say, went on.
        She is survived by her companion, Florence Klotz, and a sister, Juliette Fleischer, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      