
        Mary Hunter Wolf, one of the first female directors on Broadway, died Nov. 3 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95.
        Born in Bakersfield, Calif., and orphaned as a teenager, Ms. Hunter (who took the name Wolf after marrying Herman Wolf in 1955) discovered her love of the theater while a student at the Hollywood School for Girls. There she formed a lifelong friendship with the choreographer Agnes de Mille, a classmate.
        She spent the summer after graduation working as a script girl for de Mille's father, William, at Laske Studios before heading to Wellesley College. During her third year at Wellesley, she visited her aunt, the writer Mary Austin, in Santa Fe, N.M., where she was introduced into the circle of D. H. Lawrence, Lynn Riggs, Sinclair Lewis and Willa Cather, whom she chauffeured around while Cather wrote ''Death Comes for the Archbishop.''
        She soon abandoned her studies to forge a directing career, beginning with a staging of a 17th-century Spanish verse play, ''Los Morros y los Cristianos,'' performed on horseback. In 1928, she moved to Chicago, where she enrolled at the University of Chicago and started working with the Cube Theater, the first interracial company in Chicago. Once again, she dropped out of college to take over the theater, directing such plays as ''The Dreamy Kid,'' ''The Man Who Died at 12:00'' and ''Plumes,'' in which Katherine Dunham made her dramatic debut.
        In 1931, she won the part of Marge on the WGN radio comedy ''Easy Aces.'' Two years later, she moved with the show to New York, where it was broadcast on CBS until 1945, and resumed her college studies, earning a degree in anthropology from Columbia University.
        In 1938, Ms. Hunter and a Stanislavsky student, Andrius Jilinsky, founded the American Actors Company, an early Off Broadway ensemble whose members included de Mille, Jerome Robbins, Mildred Dunnock, Horton Foote, Joseph Anthony, Perry Wilson and Jean Stapleton.
        ''Mary was largely instrumental in getting me interested in playwriting and was kind of my mentor,'' Mr. Foote said Friday.
        ''I was doing some improvisation about Texas, and she asked me if I had ever thought about writing, which I hadn't,'' he recalled. ''And so, at her urging, I put some things down on paper, and it sort of went from there.''
        Ms. Hunter made her Broadway debut directing the 1944 production of Mr. Foote's ''Only the Heart.'' The next year, she directed ''Carib Song,'' the first black Broadway musical, starring Dunham. She went on to direct Riggs's ''Out of Dust,'' John LaTouche and Jerome Moross's ''Ballet Ballads'' and a successful run of Jean-Paul Sartre's ''Respectful Prostitute,'' both on Broadway and on tour. Alongside her close friend Robbins, she was associate director of ''Peter Pan,'' starring Mary Martin.
        In 1947, Ms. Hunter was hired to direct a new Broadway musical, ''High Button Shoes,'' but the show's producers dismissed her before rehearsals began, replacing her with George Abbott. She sued, arguing that her contract had been canceled because she was a woman. Two years later the New York Supreme Court decided in her favor.
        At the close of World War II, Ms. Hunter established the Professional Training Program of the American Theater Wing, under which 1,700 students studied under the G.I. Bill of Rights. In 1952 she helped Lawrence Langner found the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., serving first as executive director and later as associate producer.
        She and Mr. Wolf were divorced in 1965. He survives her, as do two stepsons, David Wolf of Ridgefield, Wash., and Bill Wolf of New Castle, Va.; a stepdaughter, Louise Chandler of Sweet Springs, W.Va.; six grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      