
        Teresa Sterne, a pioneering producer of classical recordings, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73.
        She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
        As the director of Nonesuch Records from 1965 through 1979, Ms. Sterne turned a small budget label into one of the most adventurous companies in the recording business.  When she was invited to take charge of Nonesuch, the label was a subsidiary of the pop-oriented and profitable Elektra Records. Nonesuch's business had consisted mostly of acquiring the rights to existing recordings of Baroque music by European ensembles and reissuing them at budget prices in the United States.
        Ms. Sterne, called Tracey by her friends and colleagues, brought a vision to the job born of her long experience in music. She had been a piano prodigy, and though she gave up public performance as an adult, she maintained close ties with the composers and performers of her day.
        At Nonesuch she brought attention to areas of music neglected by the major labels, particularly contemporary music and American vernacular music. She championed American composers like George Crumb, Elliott Carter, Morton Subotnick, Charles Wuorinen and Donald Martino, not just recording their works but commissioning them, an unusual move for the leader of a record company. She also issued important recordings of lesser-known works by Schoenberg, Busoni, Stravinsky and other major figures.
        She nurtured relationships with several excellent performers not widely known at the time, like the pianist Paul Jacobs, the mezzo-soprano Jan DeGaetani and the pianist Gilbert Kalish. Many of the artists she discovered were first recognized  for their work in contemporary music. Ms. Sterne encouraged them to  record past works that interested them as well, like Jacobs's critically hailed recording of the Debussy etudes and Mr. Kalish's engaging survey of the Haydn piano sonatas.
        The mezzo-soprano Joan Morris and her husband and professional partner, the composer and pianist William Bolcom, made some popular Nonesuch recordings of vernacular American songs from the late 19th and early 20th centuries. And Ms. Sterne sparked a nationwide craze for ragtime with a series of Scott Joplin piano works played by Joshua Rifkin.
        She was also in the forefront of the early instrument movement in Baroque and Renaissance repertory. And under her leadership, Nonesuch's Explorer series introduced music from Bali, India, Peru and other countries to a wider audience. Ms. Sterne believed that every record she produced should have a purpose, and she involved herself with everything, from the packaging to the liner notes.
        But in late 1979 she was dismissed from Nonesuch. Early in her tenure the record label had been acquired by Warner Communications, and by the mid-1970's, it was grouped under a parent company, Elektra/Asylum/ Nonesuch, headed by Joe Smith. Warner officials asserted that Nonesuch was losing money. In an interview with The Boston Globe at the time, Mr. Smith said: ''Nonesuch is in business, and it is losing its credibility in its marketplace. We can't make records that sell only outside the Russian Tea Room.''
        Ms. Sterne argued that the losses were mostly caused by the parent company's poor marketing and distribution. A letter condemning her dismissal, written by 10 Pulitzer Prize-winning composers, including Mr. Carter and Aaron Copland, was sent to the vice president of Warner Communications and widely circulated in the press, to no avail.
        Ms. Sterne never anticipated becoming a record producer. She was born in Brooklyn on March 29, 1927, to a cultured family with a toehold on the middle class. Her mother was a cellist who gave up her career to nurture her musical daughter. Ms. Sterne's father, a violinist, deserted the family when she was 14. Her paternal uncle, Robert Sterne, a professional violinist, became an important mentor.
        From the age of 10, she was educated at home by private tutors, living with her mother and a beloved aunt in ''a kind of aristocratic poverty,'' as she once told a friend. In 1939, when she was 12, she made her professional debut as a pianist playing Grieg's Piano Concerto with the NBC Symphony Orchestra at Madison Square Garden. The next year she played Tchaikovsky's Piano Concerto with the New York Philharmonic at Lewisohn Stadium, winning cheers from the audience and glowing reviews from critics. Her career as a prodigy flourished.
        But after such a rarefied and isolated upbringing, Ms. Sterne felt that she lacked the pragmatism and confidence to pursue a professional career. Wanting experience in the real world, she became a secretary, soon winding up in the offices of the powerful manager Sol Hurok, where she nurtured the careers of other young artists. A series of administrative jobs, including assistant to the director at Vanguard Records, led to her  hiring by Nonesuch.
        Ms. Sterne, who never married, leaves no immediate survivors. After her dismissal from Nonesuch, the company went through many changes. Earlier this year, Robert Hurwitz, its director since 1984 and a great admirer of Ms. Sterne, issued a two-disc recording in tribute to her, containing highlights from favorite albums she had produced and live recordings of performances she gave in her early years as a piano prodigy.
      