
        Ruth Martin, a writer whose English translations of both popular and obscure operas were widely used in American opera houses, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86.
        Mrs. Martin was born Ruth Berenice Kelley in Jersey City in April 1914. During her student years she was a violinist in the orchestra and in chamber ensembles at Smith College, where she studied music, languages and literature. She completed her undergraduate work at Smith in 1936 and continued her studies there, at the University of Munich and at the Salzburg Mozarteum. She also studied the violin privately in Vienna and Budapest.
        When she was in Europe in the late 1930's she contributed several reports on European musical events to The New York Times. Among them was a chilling account of the Salzburg Festival in 1938: ''Swastikas and pictures of Hitler smothered the renowned Baroque buildings, and native restaurateurs, whose cheerful 'Gruss Gott' used to lessen the blow of a large bill, now shouted morosely, 'Heil Hitler,' as their patrons left without leaving a tip,'' she wrote.
        ''The town has been purged of foreign influences,'' she concluded wisfully. ''From the point of view of the world in general, Salzburg must be considered a thing of the past.''
        Miss Kelley married Thomas Martin, a conductor who was born in Vienna and later conducted at the New York City Opera and worked with several other music theater ensembles. In 1941 the Martins began collaborating on libretto translations. Their first, Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' was performed at the Metropolitan Opera, as were several of their subsequent translations. All told, they translated some 50 librettos, including Mozart's ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' ''Don Giovanni'' and ''The Marriage of Figaro,'' Puccini's ''Boheme,'' Rossini's ''Italian Girl in Algiers'' and ''The Barber of Seville'' and Bizet's ''Carmen.''
        In addition to setting many standard works, the Martins were frequently commissioned to translate operatic rarities. It is in their translations that many American operagoers first heard Offenbach's ''Grand Duchess of Gerolstein,'' Dvorak's ''Rusalka'' and two operas by Korngold, ''Die Tote Stadt'' and ''The Ring of Polycrates.'' Mr. Martin died in 1984.
        The hallmarks of the Martins' translations, and the qualities that made them so durable, were clarity and singability. Although titling systems have largely replaced translations in many large houses in recent years, one still frequently encounters the librettos that the Martins rendered in English during their 40-year collaboration.
        ''The translator,'' Mrs. Martin wrote in The Times in 1948, ''derives a great degree of satisfaction from helping to present an opera to American audiences in the way both the composer and his librettist intended, namely, as a drama set to music, which may be enjoyed without reference to the libretto in intermissions.''
        Mrs. Martin also wrote articles on opera for Opera News, Aria and Theater Arts. She was on the boards of the New York Federation of Music Clubs, the Liederkranz Foundation and the National Opera Foundation. Among the honors she received for her work was a lifetime achievement award from the National Opera Association in 1998.
        She is survived by three daughters: Mary-Anne Martin, Susanna Martin and Colette Wilde, and a son, Charles.
      