
        Alice Recknagel Ireys, one of the most prominent landscape architects of the second half of the 20th century, with more than 1,000 public and private projects to her name, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
        A bridge between the 19th-century tradition of gracious landscaping for grand estates and elegant modern design for postwar suburban homes, she also created many major public garden spaces. Important projects can be seen in both the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.
        One of her famous designs was for the Fragrance Garden at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, which became a prototype internationally for gardens used by people with disabilities.
        Born in Brooklyn on April 24, 1911, as Alice Recknagel, Mrs. Ireys lived all her life in the Brooklyn Heights town house occupied since 1835 by five generations of her family.
        Her serious gardening began in a youth program at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, which was founded in 1910, a year before her birth.
        ''The Burpee company provided the seeds, and after we planted them and followed their growth, we were allowed to take the plants home,'' she recalled in an interview not long before her death.
        In 1935, she completed her formal training as a landscape architect at the Cambridge School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture in Massachusetts when it was affiliated with Smith College.
        Before setting up her own practice in 1947 in her home, she worked in Manhattan with other landscape architects, mostly women, on public housing projects, public playgrounds, college campuses and lakeside plantings at the 1939 New York World's Fair.
        Mrs. Ireys traveled to England and France and worked in 17 states, but it was her native Brooklyn, with its famous botanic garden, that commanded her attention and affection over a lifetime.
        She was one of the remaining links to a golden age of landscape architecture as a profession for women, beginning around the end of the 19th century. Her principles formed a critical transition in American garden history between the great estate era and the explosion of suburban and town gardens that followed World War II.
        By scaling down and reconfiguring broad terraces, flower walks and parterres, she conferred on modest properties the same sense of privilege and gracious outdoor living that had once been reserved for country estates. She made a great virtue of the serpentine line to give the illusion of length and breadth.
        She emphasized the simple pleasures of walking around flower beds, sitting under the dappled shade of a tree or dining with friends on a terrace. Achieving this, however, required underlying construction and a sophisticated selection of plants and trees compatible with the climate and the care that could be supplied.
        ''To produce a living functional picture as well as a beautiful one'' was how Mrs. Ireys defined garden design in the first of her four books, ''How to Plan and Plant Your Own Property'' (1967). Her books, with their accessible prose, site plans and photographs, have served as basic training for many in the next generation of professional landscape architects and for amateurs as well.
        She also wrote ''Small Gardens for City and Country'' (1978) and two books published in 1991 for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, ''Designs for American Gardens'' and ''Garden Designs,'' which included her popular planting plans, originally published in Burpee catalogs.
        Mrs. Ireys considered it a challenge to design a garden of any size. ''Once,'' she reminisced, ''I met a woman who wanted a garden but could not afford one, so we made a deal. I designed and planted her garden, and she delivered two loaves of homemade bread to us once a week for two years. My children were thrilled.''
        Galen Williams, a landscape designer in East Hampton, N.Y, who assisted her, recalled: ''Her eye was so finely tuned that once after appraising a mock-up for a front and side fence, Mrs. Ireys requested that one section be lowered by an inch and the other by a half-inch. The next time it was perfect.''
        After a major planting of evergreens was completed by Mrs. Ireys, Ms. Williams recalled, ''the trees instantly looked as if they had been there for 50 years.''
        The way her gardens settled into the landscape gave them a sense of timelessness, even though they had to be carefully monitored.
        ''If you do well in people's gardens, they keep coming back,'' was Mrs. Ireys's summation of her long career. But she could also bluntly tell one client to remove a row of azaleas because ''it looks like motel planting.''
        In later years, she inspected large gardens from the vantage of a golf cart, using her cane as a pointer.
        In Manhattan, Mrs. Ireys's public work can be seen in the colonial-style garden behind the Mount Vernon Hotel Museum and Garden, the former Abigail Adams Smith Museum on East 61st Street, a 1799 carriage house that became a popular hotel on the East River.
        In 1988, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, she designed two gardens, the Mae L. Wien Cutting Garden and Helen's Garden of Fragrant Plants, a memorial to Helen Goodhart Altschul, who was blind for the last 20 years of her life. Both demonstrate an array of visual tricks that make small plots appear larger.
        In 1978, Mrs. Ireys was elected a fellow in the American Society of Landscape Architects. In 1991, she received the Liberty Hyde Bailey Award from the American Horticultural Society. Recently, she gave her professional papers to Smith College. A documentary film about her life and work, ''The Living Landscapes of Alice Recknagel Ireys,'' by Malcolm MacDougall, was released this year.
        Mrs. Ireys is survived by a sister, Catherine Ropes of Hartsdale, N.Y.; two daughters, Catherine Gandel of Los Angeles and Dr. Anne Lennon of Green Harbor, Mass.; a son, Dr. Henry T. Ireys of Baltimore; and five grandsons. Her husband, Henry T. Ireys, whom she married in 1943, died in 1963.
        Next June, Mrs. Ireys was to receive the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Better Earth Award, recognizing people who are engaged in important environmental work in the community that benefits the planet. As a lecturer and designer at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden for more than 50 years, Mrs. Ireys considered the garden her true home and did her most important community project for it.
        The Fragrance Garden she designed there was completed in 1955 and later extensively restored. It is accessible to the blind and to visitors who use wheelchairs. An oval garden with raised perimeter beds that can be easily touched and smelled, the Fragrance Garden is divided into four sections with Braille labels: fragrant flowers, plants for touch, plants with scented leaves and kitchen herbs. The flagstone walk around the central lawn makes it easy to move around the edges.
        ''At night when I can't sleep,'' Mrs. Ireys said, ''I think about my different jobs and what fun they all were.''
      