
        Christabel Leighton-Porter, who became the sweetheart of British troops in World War II as the model for a comic strip heroine who was forever shedding her clothes, died Dec. 6 in Horsham, England. She was 87.
        While American troops ogled pinups of Betty Grable and the Varga girls of Esquire magazine, British soldiers, sailors and airmen went to war inspired by The Daily Mirror's comic strip ''Jane.''
        Six days a week, Jane, a curvaceous blonde secret agent -- Mrs. Leighton-Porter as drawn by Norman Pett -- found herself in madcap escapades. Jane tangled with Nazi spies, tumbled down cliffs and became caught in tree branches in episodes that invariably concluded with her stripped down to her underclothes.
        When she was not posing as Jane, Mrs. Leighton-Porter traveled around England in a chorus-girl show, ''Jane in The Mirror,'' entertaining servicemen and bucking up home front morale.
        ''Suddenly I became a sweetheart all over the world,'' she recalled. ''One admiral told me that there wasn't anybody on the ships, from the lowest rating to the highest in the fleet, who didn't have a drawing of Jane in his pocket or on his bunk.''
        Christabel Jane Drewry was born on April 11, 1913, in Eastleigh, England; her father worked at the town carriage works. In her late teens, she became an artist's model, and in 1939 she was acclaimed Britain's Perfect Girl in a beauty pageant at the London Palladium.
        She was discovered by Mr. Pett while modeling at an art school in Birmingham, where she also worked as a telephone operator. Mr. Pett had been drawing for The Daily Mirror since 1932, when he created ''Jane's Journal: The Diary of a Bright Young Thing,'' using his wife, Mary, as a model. But Mrs. Pett grew interested in golf as the years passed and the newspaper became interested in a Jane who revealed some flesh.
        When Britain went to war in 1939, Mrs. Leighton-Porter's Jane began to lose her garments and the comic strip began to gain a huge audience on the fighting fronts. Bomber crews painted Jane on Lancaster fuselages, submarines went to war with weeks of her advance comic panels stored away, and tank crews plastered Jane's undraped likeness on their turrets. Churchill is said to have cited Jane's morale-boosting as Britain's secret weapon.
        Jane finally shed every stitch of her clothing in a September 1944 episode. The Daily Mirror reported that a British infantry division was so inspired that it advanced six miles in France the very next day.
        Notwithstanding her achievements in the war effort, Mrs. Leighton-Porter had to negotiate with the lord chamberlain, the court official responsible for censoring stage shows, when she made her stage appearances in scanty outfits. ''They were never offensive,'' she said of those shows. ''I was very modest.''
        Jane received numerous marriage proposals, but the smitten soldiers  did not know that the real Jane was married, something Mrs. Leighton-Porter kept secret so as not to disappoint her fans. Her husband, Arthur, was a Royal Air Force pilot.
        Mrs. Leighton-Porter continued modeling for ''Jane'' after the war, and when Mr. Pett left The Daily Mirror in 1948, the drawings were taken over by his assistant, Michael Hubbard. The next year, Mrs. Leighton-Porter appeared in the British movie ''The Adventures of Jane.''
        The comic strip continued until 1959, when Jane sailed into the sunset with her boyfriend, Georgie Porgie. Mrs. Leighton-Porter settled into family life in Bermuda and in England, turning to more staid endeavors like sponsoring teas for a cricket team in Horsham.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Simon.
        Neither Jane nor Mrs. Leighton-Porter was forgotten. The BBC developed a television show based on the ''Jane'' comic strip in the early 1980's, and Mrs. Leighton-Porter appeared at servicemen's reunions. In 1993, the Imperial War Museum displayed her 1940's frilly knickers in its exhibition ''Forces Sweethearts,'' the story of wartime romance from World War I to the gulf war. In June 1994, Mrs. Leighton-Porter attended ceremonies observing the 50th anniversary of the D-Day invasion.
        When she reflected on the comic strip's popularity, Mrs. Leighton-Porter chose not to dwell on the risque. ''I think it was because Jane was a bit girl-next-doorish, a bit of England for the boys,'' she said. ''Jane became a cult thing really, and I think wives and girlfriends were glad that their boys had something to get a kick out of.''
      