
        Peggy McMartin Buckey, a principal defendant in the Virginia McMartin Pre-School child-molestation case, who went free after a costly seven-year ordeal when prosecutors gave up, died on Friday in Torrance, Calif. She was 74 and lived in Torrance.
        The local authorities said Mrs. Buckey was found unconscious in her home and was pronounced dead at a hospital.
        Mrs. Buckey was the main administrator of the school that her family operated in Manhattan Beach, a Los Angeles suburb. The case turned into a legal and emotional crucible for her, her son and daughter, her mother and three teachers, as well as the accusing parents.
        It started in August 1983 when a mother called the police to say that her 2 1/2-year-old son had been molested at the school.
        In a case that many found reminiscent of the witchcraft trials of yore, the ensuing investigation soon received lurid reports of children being raped and sodomized, of dead rabbits, satanic rites and drinking blood. Eventually the case went through two trials, the last ending with a hung jury. The prosecution cost Los Angeles County at least $15 million.
        On the basis of testimony from children and doctors but little corroborating evidence, a grand jury in March 1984 indicted Mrs. Buckey; her son, Raymond; her daughter, Peggy Ann Buckey; her mother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the school; and three teachers. After a lengthy preliminary hearing, the trial judge in January 1986 ordered all seven to stand trial on a total of 135 counts of molesting 14 children.
        Days later, even the prosecution termed the evidence against all but Mrs. Buckey and her son ''incredibly weak.'' The charges against the five other defendants were dropped.
        Mrs. Buckey and Raymond Buckey first went to trial in April 1987. Two years later the county jury voted acquittals on some charges and deadlocked on others. A second trial of Mr. Buckey alone ended in a hung jury, after which prosecutors chose to drop the matter.
        ''I've gone through hell,'' Mrs. Buckey said at the time, ''and now we've lost everything.'' By then she had spent two years behind bars before raising bail and her son had spent five.
        The case came to symbolize the hazards in abuse investigations.
        Experts in the field held that children's accounts of abuse tended to have a basis of truth because they had no reason to invent such events.
        But in the McMartin case and others like it, critics contended, zealous prosecutors and poorly trained social workers, faced with anxious parents, may unknowingly coach children to tell stories of abuse or embroider on them.
        Mrs. Buckey's survivors include her husband, Charles, and her son and daughter. Her mother, Virginia McMartin, died in 1995.
      