
        Lily Carlson Schulte, one of the first models hired by the Ford agency and a favorite subject of photographers like Irving Penn and Richard Avedon, died on Dec. 14 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 85.
        ''It's hard to explain to you what a star she was,'' said Eileen Ford, the agency's co-founder. ''Every great photographer wanted to work with her. In this business, there certainly has never been a bigger star. ''
        Lily Carlson, as she was known professionally, stood 5 feet 11 inches tall. She stood out in a crowd, even of other models. She is the woman in the center of Irving Penn's famous photograph of the 12 most photographed women of the 1940's. She wears a white gown with a billowing skirt and gazes slightly upward.
        Her face was more famous than her name, perhaps, but she was always famous to her photographers. George Hurrell, a distinguished fashion photographer, called her one of the three most beautiful women he ever photographed. The others were Joan Crawford and his wife, Phyllis Bounds, also a model. He called Miss Carlson ''perhaps the best fashion model in the entire country.''
        In an interview in Cover Girl magazine, Mr. Hurrell said that some models are wooden and tend to simper, but that Miss Carlson was alive and vital. ''Equally good in sports clothes or evening gowns,'' he said.
        She came along just as the whole business of modeling changed, Mrs. Ford said. In the immediate post-war years, models became the elegant emblems of a newly booming haute couture fashion business, perhaps epitomized by Christian Dior's romantic New Look of 1947. There was an explosion of photography, and models like Lisa Fonssagrives, famously photographed at the Eiffel Tower with her skirts billowing, elevated the model's role far beyond that of simple clothes hangers.
        ''It was like a land rush,'' said Mrs. Ford, who with her husband, Jerry, opened Ford Models in 1946. They had hired only a couple of lesser-known models when Miss Carlson agreed to sign on. ''She was our seal of approval, the first really, really great star,'' said Mrs. Ford. (Her agency agreed this month to be bought by Magnum Sports Entertainment.)
        Lily Viola Carlson was born in Sheridan, Iowa, on April 4, 1915, Easter Sunday. ''It was Bunny or Lily,'' said her daughter Christina Fleur, ''and they called her Lily. Thank goodness.''
        Her father was a Lutheran minister who frequently conducted services in Swedish. Her son, William Dowell, said she hated both the plains and the plainness of the Midwest, greedily devouring The New Yorker magazine as if it were ''an escape manual.''
        She attended the Art Institute of Chicago, specializing in watercolors and photography. She followed a fellow student, Julian C. Dowell, to New York and married him. Their honeymoon consisted of a nickel ride on the Fifth Avenue bus. They and their friends would hold spaghetti parties to which each person would bring a can of pasta to throw into the kettle.
        With Mr. Dowell unemployed at the depths of the Depression, his wife looked in the mirror and saw what just might be a bankable asset. She flipped through a directory of fashion photographers and under the B's, spotted one named Erwin Blumenfeld. He shot some test pictures and sent them to Vogue, and Miss Carlson went to work.
        ''It was so amazing,'' she later told Cover Girl. ''The first 28 days, I made $1,500,'' the equivalent of about $13,500 in today's money.
        Mr. Blumenfeld said this was not all good news. He told her the pressures of the stratospheric career she could easily have might damage her marriage. Mr. Dowell, who envisioned her as a movie star, said she must do it, their son, William, said.
        Soon they were living in different worlds. She was a regular at the Stork Club in a veiled hat and white gloves, while he found work as an art director. He moved to the suburbs, she stayed in Manhattan, and they were divorced.
        She had not started modeling until her late 20's, but she quickly became a regular in both the fashion and general press. A picture in Life showed her striding down Park Avenue carrying a hatbox, then ''the symbol of the model's trade,'' as the caption read. An Avedon photograph in Vogue showed her ''wrapped in a cloud of red fox against black.''
        She sometimes veered beyond fashion, once escorting a sheep around the country for a wool dealers' group. She was the Drene Girl, showing off her voluminous hair for Drene shampoo.
        To enliven her expression, she always conversed with an imaginary friend as she was photographed. ''That way I just naturally warm up,'' she said.
        Cover Girl reported, ''Photographers with whom Lily works tease her about this. 'Well, Lily,' they say, 'who will it be today . . . Julian, Joe or John?' '' Mrs. Ford said this is wrong. It was always John. She has no idea why.
        In 1955, Miss Carlson married David A. Schulte, a financier who advised presidents on employment policy and still serves on the New York City Board of Corrections. Her new affluence allowed her to leave modeling and spend more time taking pictures herself. Her work appeared in Life, Look and other magazines.
        The two would have been jet-setters had they not preferred the staterooms of luxury ocean liners. They spent almost half their lives in Europe, always staying at the Cipriani in Venice, the Ritz in Paris. At the Ritz several years ago, Mrs. Schulte spotted Richard Avedon and shyly approached to ask if he remembered her. He did.
        But her son described a woman who furnished her elegant apartment with things she bought at flea markets.
        In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
        At her funeral on Monday, there were mountains of white roses and white lilies. Ms. Fleur told of the time at age 8 or 9 that she was caught with her mother in a downpour. Yellow cabs were whizzing by, but you would have had a better chance of catching a snowball somewhere very hot. Suddenly, a cab screeched to a stop directly in front of Miss Carlson.
        ''I saw you standing there,'' the driver said.
      