
        Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City. She was 92.
        Ms. Lamarque gained renown after leaving Argentina for Mexico in 1946, following an incident on the Buenos Aires set of the 1944 movie ''The Circus Procession.'' She was said to have quarreled with a young actress named Eva Duarte.
        The next year Duarte married Col. Juan Domingo Peron, and in 1946, Peron became president of Argentina. Exercising her power as first lady, Eva Duarte Peron effectively prevented any studio in Argentina from hiring Ms. Lamarque.
        After she moved to Mexico City in the 1940's, during the Golden Age of Mexican cinema, Ms. Lamarque's career blossomed. She acted in the first film that the Spanish director Luis Bunuel made in Mexico, ''The Great Casino,'' and appeared in some 60 other films.
        ''Strangely, even with a strong Argentine accent that never quite went away, she became the darling of Mexican cinema,'' said Carl Mora, an expert on Latin American film at the University of New Mexico. ''Her magnetic presence made for quite a life trajectory.''
        It was in Rosario, the provincial Argentine city where Ms. Lamarque was born, that she began her artistic career. Her father was Gaudencio Lamarque, a Uruguayan descendant of French immigrants and a militant anarchist. Because he was imprisoned at the time of her birth, his daughter was named Libertad, or Liberty. Together with six half-brothers and -sisters, she began acting as a child in plays inspired by anarchist ideas.
        In 1926, when Ms. Lamarque turned 18, her family moved to Buenos Aires. She soon found work singing in comedy shows. Then a music studio hired her to record tango songs, and she began to attract attention. Ms. Lamarque also started acting, making her debut in the 1929 silent film ''Adios, Argentina,'' which was made by the Italian director Mario Parpagnoli in a single day. In 1932 she starred in ''Tango,'' Argentina's first sound film.
        Ms. Lamarque's first marriage, to Emilio Romero, who worked as a prompter in the theater, turned sour shortly after they exchanged vows in 1928. Still, because divorce was illegal at the time in Argentina, it took Ms. Lamarque 12 years to become legally separated from him.
        In 1935 she was reported to have attempted suicide while on tour in Chile. That same year her husband took their daughter, Mirtha, with him to live in neighboring Uruguay. After an effort involving a lawyer and several friends, including Hector Artola, her new romantic partner and future husband, Ms. Lamarque succeeded in gaining custody of her daughter.
        While in Argentina, Ms. Lamarque acted in more than 20 movies, including ''Honeysuckle,'' ''When I Return to Your Side'' and ''In This Gray Afternoon.'' But it was in Mexico that she took her place as a leading figure in Latin American cinema, and later in the melodramatic world of daily telenovelas, or soap operas. In later years she divided her time between Mexico City and Miami, but refused to retire.
        Earlier this year the Mexican Academy of Cinema Arts and Sciences awarded her a lifetime achievement award. At the time of her death she was playing a Mother Superior in ''Angelface,'' a popular telenovela.
        Ms. Lamarque is survived by her daughter, Mirtha Romero Lamarque, of Argentina.
      