
        Esther Bradford Aresty, a collector of rare books on etiquette and the culinary arts, subjects to which she added her own work as a noted author, died Saturday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. A former resident of Trenton and Princeton, she was 92.
        Mrs. Aresty's shelf-lined home was the repository of a fabled trove of books and unpublished manuscripts of recipes, advice on etiquette and household hints. Spanning five centuries, they now fill the Esther B. Aresty Collection on the Culinary Arts at the University of Pennsylvania.
        In a 1960 profile of Mrs. Aresty in The New York Times, Craig Claiborne acclaimed the trove as ''one of the finest collections of rare books ever assembled.'' Among its jewels is a Venetian manuscript from 1475, which, Mr. Claiborne wrote, ''is believed to be the first cookbook ever printed.''
        There is a work by Platina, who established the Vatican Library. There is also an Elizabethan manuscript that Mrs. Aresty said ''belonged to a butcher in Cheapside.''
        One of her proudest possessions held no recipes but instead contained an encomium in rhyme by Frederick the Great of Prussia, imprinted in 1772. Dedicated to his cook, it was so rare that even his bibliographers had missed it.
        Mrs. Aresty began her collection after World War II when she frequently traveled overseas with her husband, Julian Aresty, a prosperous retail executive who shared her enthusiasm for history.
        An accomplished cook herself, she began to write her own recipes. Some of them were modern adaptations of offerings from two volumes by J. Bedingfield of 1730 and 1744.
        From cookery, it was just a short turn to table manners and etiquette in general. A former freelance writer, she wrote three books on food and etiquette.
        ''The Delectable Past'' (1964) was a history of kitchens, recipes and culinary tastes starting with the Roman Empire. ''The Best Behavior'' (1970) traced what were deemed good manners from the ancient Egyptians to Emily Post. (The New York Post serialized it that year.) ''The Exquisite Table'' (1980) examined French cuisine.
        She was born Esther Bradford, the daughter of Lithuanian immigrants, in Syracuse and grew up in Iowa. She dropped out of Purdue University while still in her teens and wrote advertising and radio copy in Chicago and radio scripts for ''The Elsa Maxwell Show'' in New York.
        She also contributed articles to children's magazines and cookbooks and wrote a novel for young adults, ''The Great Venture'' (1963).
        Mrs. Aresty is survived by a son, Robert, and a daughter, Jane Silverman, both of Princeton; and three grandchildren. Julian Aresty, known as Jules, died last year.
        Her cookbook manuscript by Chr. Maddison, dated June 24, 1675, cautioned the user: ''Eschue lewd lust if thou be wise, hot spice and wines forebeare.''
        ''Something happens to my nostrils in open-stack libraries,'' she confided in a 1970 interview. ''Book dust sets them quivering and sends me flipping.''
        In fact, she once got a check from her husband to buy herself a mink jacket and returned home in triumph with a precious Elizabethan book.
      