
        Mildred Root Mottahedeh, a collector of Chinese export porcelains and co-founder of a company that produced porcelain reproductions for several United States presidents and institutions including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last Thursday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 91 and lived in Manhattan.
        Born in Seabright, N.J., Mildred Root began collecting Japanese prints at 13 after moving to New York. She met Rafi Y. Mottahedeh, an Iranian-born importer, in New York, and the union of ''two collecting nuts'' came to be, she told The New York Times in 1989.
        Married in 1929, the Mottahedehs began acquiring Oriental porcelains, ivories, jades and bronzes, amassing one of the world's finest private collections with some 2,000 pieces. In his foreword to ''China for the West,'' an authoritative publication on the Mottahedeh collection, Nelson A. Rockefeller, a friend and fellow collector of Chinese export porcelain, described the collection as ''utterly fabulous, an artistic and cultural treasure without comparison in its field.''
        In 1929, the couple founded Mottahedeh & Company in Manhattan, which rose to prominence as one of the most prestigious firms in the reproduction of porcelain, producing some 1,500 different items for more than 3,000 stores, from Tiffany's to small gift boutiques. The company also reproduced pieces in the collections of museums like the Metropolitan and the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Musee des Arts Decoratifs in Paris for sale in their shops. Mottahedeh reproductions have graced the White House as well as the reception rooms of the State Department in Washington.
        With an eye for good design and a mind for practicality, Mrs. Mottahedeh refused to reproduce a piece simply for its historical significance but demanded instead that the object ''have character and usability.'' Among those works meeting her criteria were a monteith, or punch bowl, incorporating the presidential seal, which President Ronald Reagan presented to heads of state, and a dinner service designed by Pierre L'Enfant for George Washington.
        When her husband died in 1978, Mrs. Mottahedeh succeeded him as president and remained active in the company, even after it was sold, until her retirement in 1998.
        A member of the Bahai faith since 1929, Mrs. Mottahedeh served for many years as the first Bahai representative to the United Nations. With her husband, she founded a series of primary and secondary schools in Uganda, and maintained four village development projects in Maharashtra state in India that served as training facilities in agricultural techniques, public health services and the development of local handicrafts.
        In 1958 the couple created a foundation, Mottahedeh Development Services Inc., to help with social and economic development projects in the third world.
        She is survived by a daughter, Peri Yusef of London; a son, Roy P., of Brookline, Mass.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      