
        Emily Wilkens, an award-winning fashion designer who rejected the idea that young girls should be dressed as if they were their mothers in miniature, died in the Bronx on Saturday. She was 83.
        Beginning in the early 1940's and drawing on references as diverse as Russian peasant dresses, mid-19th-century pinafores and the paintings of Thomas Gainsborough, Ms. Wilkens designed clothes for preteen and teenage girls that belied the formality and fussiness apparel makers had tended to force upon them.
        ''She was the first to really recognize that this was a growth area,'' the fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert said.
        Ms. Wilkens's sensibility ran toward the unconstricted; even her party dresses were made of washable cottons. With developing adolescent figures in mind, her dresses featured adjustable waistlines; her full skirts allowed for widening hips.
        In a 1944 collection produced for Bonwit Teller, she surprised her audience by using black in dresses for teenage girls. But, as The New York Times wrote at the time, ''Black that no mother could object to, for it was made with snug bodice and as full a dirndl as the law permits.''
        The fashion historian Richard Martin once wrote, ''Long before rock 'n' roll and James Dean movies, Emily Wilkens invented the American teenager, pegging her sensibility to young, playful, energetic women.''
        Ms. Wilkens came to the world of children's wear rather by accident. While vacationing in Hollywood in the early 1940's, Ms. Wilkens, then an illustrator, was erroneously introduced at a party as a children's fashion designer. Soon after, she was asked to design a wardrobe for Ann Todd, a child star, who needed to be outfitted for a new movie. As a result, Ms. Wilkens began designing clothes for the progeny of celebrities like Jack Benny and Gracie Allen.
        Born in Hartford in 1917, Ms. Wilkens studied fashion illustration at Pratt Institute. After graduating in 1938, she began sketching dresses for department store newspaper advertisements. She married Judge Irving L. Levey in 1947.
        By 1948, Ms. Wilkens had started a concomitant career as a writer with the book ''Here's Looking at You: The Modern Slant on Smartness for the Junior Miss.'' She wrote four more books on beauty and grooming and served as a trustee of the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York from 1966 to 1976.
        After receiving a diagnosis of dementia nine years ago, Ms. Wilkens was moved to the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale in 1991, where she died. She is survived by a daughter, Jane Wilkens Michael, a son, Hugh Levey, and five grandchildren.
      