
        Pat Kauffman, whose blindness inspired her to help thousands of other blind people attend theatrical performances at no cost and with no fuss, died on Nov. 24 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 76.
        Ms. Kauffman's sense of mission began with an embarrassing experience at the theater, her daughter Dorothy Kauffman said.
        Ms. Kauffman told her daughter that she was walking into a Broadway theater in the early 60's with a group of blind people when one of the group's leaders called out for ''all the blind people to put their hands on the shoulder of the blind person in front of them'' as they moved to their seats. That occasion was the first time Ms. Kauffman had visited the theater since becoming permanently blind four or five years earlier.
        The request made Ms. Kauffman  feel like a member of a chain gang, she recalled. ''I died a thousand deaths that night,'' she told Dorothy many times over the years, always in the exactly the same words. She thought it was wrong to even acknowledge someone's blindness, much less call attention to it.
        Her first reaction to becoming irreversibly blind in her mid-30's had been to stop attending cultural events altogether. But her daughter said the unpleasant incident did not plunge her into further despair, but rather made her angry. The next day, she began her mission of creating a way for blind people to attend cultural events with greater dignity.
        Eventually, she developed a way for them to go to a range of cultural events, from City Center Theater, the opera and ballet center that preceded Lincoln Center, to Carnegie Hall to small Off Broadway theaters.
        The core of her program was to allow each blind person to invite a sighted companion free of charge, either someone of his choice or a volunteer from a list, so thatdescriptions could be shared discreetly.
        Her organization, Entertainment for the Blind, began arranging tickets to cultural events in the early 1960's. It usually had several hundred members and a long waiting list, and depended on donations of tickets and money, as well as volunteer help in raising money and assisting blind people at shows.
        Ms. Kauffman worked the phone relentlessly from her apartment in High Bridge, the Bronx, often sitting in a rocking chair for 12 hours. She memorized thousands of telephone numbers, developing a network of box offices, ticket agencies and theatrical agencies, always looking for tickets in groups of at least two.
        She learned early to spot opportunities. If a show was in previews, had received poor notices or had been running for a while, she would offer to fill some seats. She also developed a side business of arranging tickets for corporations, then asking them for cash donationsto her organization or for products that she could give to box-office personnel as gifts.She also built up relationships with Broadway ticket sellers by giving them movie tickets and popcorn coupons and discussing their personal problems with them in the soft, soothing voice that was her most effective tool.
        ''I felt like she was one of my closest friends,'' said Lynn Olcese, a treasurer in the Nederlander Organization, a prominent theater operator.''The weird part is that I don't even know what she looked like,'' said Ms. Olcese, who often spoke to Ms. Kauffman on the phone but never met her.
        A tall, dark-haired woman always seen in dark glasses, Ms. Kauffman strove to convey an impressive presence, her daughter said. She never referred to herself as blind or disabled and refused to learn Braille.
        She was born Pearl Frumkin in Manhattan on June 17, 1924. She never had a middle name and changed her first name to Pat, not Patricia, as a young woman.
        She recognized that her eyesight was deteriorating when she thought light bulbs needed to be changed when they didn't. By her early teens, she was reading with a magnifying glass, but still managed thick books like ''Gone With the Wind.''
        By her late 20's, cataracts and then detached retinas had taken all her sight. After her marriage to Alan Kauffman ended, she raised their three daughters by herself, putting bells on the slippers of the youngest, Dorothy, to keep track of her.
        In addition to Dorothy of Manhattan, Ms. Kauffman is survived by her other daughters, Debra Conigliaro of Rockingham, N.C., and Sherry Holladay of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
        From Ms. Kauffman's perspective, one of the most rewarding aspects of her service was that the blind were able to experience the theater without being identified as blind. Recipients of tickets from Entertainment for the Blind picked them up at the box office under the name Pat Kauffman, and their sighted companions would take them directly to their seats. No one knew.
        And no one knew about the energetic woman on the phone. Philip November, a lawyer who now does the organization's legal work, as his father also did, said some who attend Ms. Kauffman's memorial service on Monday at 6 p.m. at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan ''are going to be astonished Pat was blind.''
      