
        Ofra Haza, one of Israel's leading pop singers and songwriters, died yesterday at a hospital in Tel Aviv, where she was admitted 13 days ago. She was 41.
        She suffered massive organ failure, The Associated Press reported. A hospital staff member, Dr. Zeev Rortenstein, refused to say why she had been hospitalized or what had caused the organ failure, the report said.
        Ms. Haza crossed cultural boundaries with her voice, a tender mezzo-soprano that was equally at home with the finely turned ornaments of Middle Eastern music and the phrasing of Western-style pop. She had club hits in Europe, Asia and the United States, and sang the theme song for the movie ''Prince of Egypt.''
        Even as her audience became an international one, Ms. Haza proudly asserted her background as a Yemenite Jew, performing in elaborately beaded and brocaded traditional clothing. She sang in Hebrew, Arabic and English, with a repertory that spanned traditional songs, pop anthems and dance music.
        Ms. Haza was born in the poor Hatikva district of Tel Aviv, one of nine children. Her parents had left Yemen in 1949 to escape religious persecution. She learned old Yemenite songs from her parents, while also soaking up Israeli folk songs, the Beatles and Elvis Presley.
        Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, said she represented the Israeli success story. ''Ofra emerged from the Hatikva slums to reach the peak of Israeli culture,'' he said. ''She has left a mark on us all.''
        Ms. Haza began performing in a local theater company, Hatikva, when she was 13. As a teenager, she entered a national singing contest and won; she also appeared in television variety shows and in Israeli movies. She released her first album when she was 18.
        After two years in the army, she returned to singing, releasing pop albums that were best-sellers in Israel; in all, she had 16 gold and platinum albums there. One of her early hits, in 1979, was ''The Tart's Song,'' a defiant assertion of a young woman's prerogatives. She won the Israeli equivalent of the Grammy Award for best female singer in 1980, 1981 and 1986, and won second prize in the 1983 Eurovision Song Contest.
        But in 1985 she decided to change direction. She returned to songs she had learned from her parents, modernizing them for her album ''50 Gates of Wisdom: Yemenite Songs'' (Shanachie), based on poetry by a 17th-century rabbi. ''I wanted to do an album to make my parents happy,'' she said. Dance-music remixes of the songs ''Galbi'' and ''Im Nin'alu'' became international club hits.
        The album was a hit in Europe and Asia, and was released in the United States in 1987. Hip-hop producers discovered it; samples of her voice showed up in the remix of Eric B. and Rakim's ''Paid in Full'' and on Marrs's ''Pump Up the Volume.'' On Feb. 3, 1987, she survived an airplane crash on the Israel-Jordan border, and afterward celebrated the date as a second birthday.
        She toured the United States in 1988 as Sire Records released her album ''Shaday,'' which sold a million copies worldwide. Her 1990 album, ''Desert Wind,'' featured songs in English, and her 1992 album, ''Kirya,'' included a guest appearance from Lou Reed. ''Kirya'' was nominated for a Grammy Award in the World Beat category. In 1994 Ms. Haza sang at the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony for Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres and Yasser Arafat.
        She married Doron Askhenazi, who survives her, in 1997.
        Through the 1990's, Ms. Haza performed on recordings by British and American performers.
      