
        Bonnie Cashin, one of the first designers to create and popularize that uniquely American approach to dress called sportswear, died Thursday after open heart surgery at New York University Medical Center. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan.
        Ms. Cashin was one of a handful of women in the 1940's and 1950's who made an important contribution to American fashion, at a time when Parisian couturiers dominated the runways and supplied most of the original fashions for manufacturers to copy. The breakthroughs achieved by Ms. Cashin and designers like Claire McCardell, Vera Maxwell, Anne Klein and Anne Fogarty still influence the way women dress, and paved the way for the success of American designers like Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan and Calvin Klein.
        Renowned for her loose-fitting sportswear, Ms. Cashin described her unstudied, casual designs as ''articulating with the body.'' She was an early proponent of layering -- using several layers of light, fluid clothes, rather than one heavy garment. She pioneered the use of grommets in place of buttons and was the first important designer to make ponchos for women, introducing lightweight capes and ponchos that, she explained, ''didn't look like a horse should wear them.''
        As far back as 1943, she showed boots with tweed suits and included them in almost every subsequent collection. Her ''pocketbook'' pocket, with a snap closing, was another feature that long distinguished Cashin designs. She was ahead of her time when she introduced canvas raincoats in 1952, industrial zippers in 1955, jumpsuits in 1956 and suede Indian dresses with fringes in 1957.
        She opened her own business, Bonnie Cashin Designs, in 1952 and for the two ensuing decades also designed leather, jersey, canvas and tweed clothes for Philip Sills. In addition, she created handbags for Coach Leatherware, gloves for Crescendoe-Superb and rainwear for Modelia. In the early 1970's, she branched out into knitwear with styles knitted to shape, rather than cut and sewn, and with welt hems instead of traditional hems or ribbed cuffs. A popular innovation was a roomy turtleneck that did not require a zipper to get over the head.
        Although her themes were often adopted by other designers, Cashin clothes had a look of their own. Her tweed ponchos were bound in leather, and her coats had a special, supple swing. For several years, there were Cashin departments in chic Paris and London stores.
        ''Women buy Cashin clothes because they are cozy and comfortable, not because they bowl people over,'' the fashion writer Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times in 1968.
        Her gloves had many of the same features as her clothes. Grommets were arranged in the back of one style so that the glove could almost have served as a set of brass knuckles. Brass toggles not only were ornamental but also held a pair of gloves together or attached them to a belt. Some had drawstrings at the top that could be tightened to keep out the wind.
        Her classic designs for Coach in the early 1960's were the shoulder bag and what was called the Basic, a smaller clutch style with a removable shoulder strap. The first bag she designed, a leather carryall modeled after paper shopping bags, was later discontinued but has since become ubiquitous in the collections of numerous handbag companies.
        She was intolerant of anything ugly, in appearance or design. When she traveled, she draped lengths of Thai silk in her hotel rooms and ordered quantities of flowers. She was also generous on the road, dispensing items in her wardrobe to anyone who admired them. She usually returned with a different wardrobe from the one she had packed, not only because she had given away her clothing but also because she was interested in acquiring fashion ideas from other countries.
        ''Travel is my education,'' she said in a 1961 interview with Charlotte Curtis in The Times. ''Even if I don't use an idea right away, it's there.'' The idea of layering came from time she spent in Asia. ''The Japanese refer to cold weather as a nine-layer day,'' she explained in 1950. ''Hot is a one-layer day.''
        One of her best-known innovations was the ''dog leash'' skirt, which came about because she was constantly holding her skirt going up steps in her country home in Briarcliff, N.Y. The long wool skirt could be instantly shortened by latching a small brass ring sewn near the bottom to a small brass clasp at the waistline.
        Ms. Cashin was born on Sept. 28, 1915, in Oakland, Calif., the daughter of Carl Cashin, a photographer and inventor, and Eunice Cashin. The family lived in several towns in northern California during Ms. Cashin's early years, and in each her mother would open a custom dress shop. As a child she was given fabric scraps as playthings and soon began sewing and designing.
        Shortly before her graduation from high school, she showed some of her sketches to the director of a Los Angeles ballet company and was hired to make costumes for the next performance. After graduation, she joined the company as its designer and in 1934 accompanied the manager to New York when he took over the Roxy Theater. Not yet 20, she created three costume changes a week for each of the variety theater's 24 dancers.
        She often called her Roxy experience her ''formal schooling in design'' and credited it with her later ability to create clothes that looked good on figures in motion. The theater also propelled her into designing street clothes, initially a collection of sportswear for Adler & Adler, a manufacturing concern.
        After the United States entered World War II, she was appointed to a committee to design uniforms for women in the armed forces. But the war also imposed restrictions on the civilian use of fabrics and trim. She returned to costume design, which had more leeway with fabrics, and moved to Hollywood. There, she joined 20th Century Fox and created the clothes for some 60 films, including ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn,'' ''Laura'' and ''Anna and the King of Siam.''
        Ms. Cashin enjoyed the work in Hollywood, explaining: ''I wasn't designing for fashion, but for characteristics, which is the way I like to design clothes for daily wear. I like to design clothes for a woman who plays a particular role in life, not simply to design clothes that follow a certain trend, or that express some new silhouette.''
        She remained in Hollywood until 1949, when she returned to New York. Her casual, layered clothes struck a responsive chord in American women. Within three years, she had won the first of her Coty Awards and organized Bonnie Cashin Designs.
        Ms. Cashin was also chosen the first designer for Patterns of The Times, American Designer Series, a monthly feature in The New York Times during the 1950's that made designer patterns available for home sewing.
        She was inducted into the Coty American Fashion Critics Hall of Fame in 1972 after receiving her second Coty Award in 1968. Her designs are in more than a dozen museums and some 30 university collections.
        She was among the designers highlighted in the 1998 Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute exhibition ''American Ingenuity: Sportswear 1930's-1970's.'' A retrospective of her work is scheduled to open in September at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York.
        In 1979, she established the Innovative Design Fund awards, a nonprofit organization based in New York that gave up to $10,000 to designers with original ideas in home furnishings, textiles and fashion so they could transform their sketches into marketable products.
        During her early design years, she was married briefly to Robert Sterner, an art director. They were later divorced. She is survived by her longtime companion, Curtis Kellar.
        Bernadine Morris summed up Ms. Cashin's fashion philosophy and appeal in a 1968 article in The Times: ''In a day when most fashions seem stamped out by cookie cutters, hers look as if they had been touched with human hands.''
        ''They have an uncompromising integrity, freedom and joy,'' Mrs. Morris wrote.
        Her own career philosophy was summed up in a framed unsigned cartoon of trapeze performers she had hanging in her Manhattan apartment. One high-wire performer is advising the other, ''You've got to know when to let go.''
      