
        Anna Holbrook Clark, who transcended a secretarial job to become an influential policy adviser to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and worked at five levels of government, died on Jan. 28 in a Manhattan nursing home. She was 95.
        The era in which Ms. Clark served the dynamic mayor known as ''the Little Flower'' seems almost impossibly quaint: he had no telephone on his desk and wandered into her cubbyhole to take calls. But it was the Depression era, and as the country moved toward World War II she was at the center of events during a turbulent period at City Hall.
        ''I do not think that anyone who stops to consider it can deny that we are in the midst of a social revolution,'' Ms. Clark said in a paper on economic strategies written for Mayor La Guardia in 1940. She saw the mayor's office as ''one of the nerve centers of the world,'' according to an oral history she prepared in the 1980's.
        The pace of life -- eventually as secretary of the Board of Estimate, the panel of top elected officials that then ran city government -- was blistering: Mayor La Guardia resented staff members taking lunch, barely tolerated their vacations and routinely punished unproductive commissioners by making them wait five or six hours for appointments.
        Ms. Clark was one of dozens of women promoted by Mayor La Guardia to positions of influence as part of his reformist philosophy. She eventually held jobs at the city, county, state, federal and international levels. Her approach to her often-chaotic working environment was steady, soft-spoken and utterly attentive.
        ''You told her something once,'' said Susan Alt, former president of the Women's Civic Club, a policy analysis and advocacy organization of which Ms. Clark was a member throughout her adult life.
        Ms. Clark possessed a steely determination learned from her grandmother Kate, a suffragist and prohibitionist who frequently campaigned on street corners.
        Women won the right to vote when Ms. Clark was 16. Her mother took her along to the polling place even though she was too young to vote. Smiling broadly, the mother told officials that her daughter was 21 -- a bit of calculated revenge for centuries of female disenfranchisement.
        Anna Clark was born in the Manhattan neighborhood of Washington Heights in 1904. She was the oldest of five children. One sister contracted polio and another died of influenza in 1918, leaving a long shadow over the family, said a niece, Cheryl Chalmers.
        But spirited discussions of public affairs obscured the sadness. Talk often revolved around corruption cases that her father, John Kirkland Clark, investigated as a lawyer in the Manhattan district attorney's office.
        Ms. Clark attended the Barnard School for Girls, but she later regretted that the school taught her little science. She graduated from Smith College, majoring in government. Her first job was with a magazine published for social workers.
        She then received a one-year fellowship to Bryn Mawr College to study bias in the news. Her next job was as a writer for The American City, a technical journal for city government managers. She was laid off during the Depression.
        ''I remember saying to my family that I thought if I were a man I might try for a job in city government,'' she said in her oral history. Her father suggested speaking to his secretary, who just happened to be Mayor La Guardia's sister. ''I'm not averse to using contacts,'' Ms. Clark said.
        The result was an interview with the mayor at his temporary offices in the Empire State Building during a renovation of City Hall. In the middle of the session, an aide scurried in and whispered in the mayor's ear. The mayor jumped up. ''I have to go to a fire,'' he said. ''Come back on Monday.''
        She was not sure she wanted the job, which involved reorganizing extensive files, supervising three secretaries and much more. But when it was offered, at a salary of $2,600 a year, she grabbed it. Eight months later she received a raise of $280 a year, according to a one-paragraph report in The New York Times.
        She was meeting people like Robert Moses, the man behind the city and state's highways, bridges and parks. Introducing her, Mayor La Guardia said, ''She's a career woman.'' Mr. Moses looked at her and asked how long that would last.
        She never married, perhaps because her social life was circumscribed by the mountains of work she habitually brought home. She was tall and slender, and had ''a sweet manner of speaking,'' said Edith Spivack, 89, a lawyer who worked in the La Guardia administration. Her voice was authoritative, and she squinted a bit when making an important point, said Richard K. Lieberman, director of the La Guardia and Wagner Archives.
        Ms. Spivack said: ''She was neat and tidy. She was all the things a lady should be.''
        As the war deepened, the Board of Estimate did less and less. So Ms. Clark went to Washington to work in the Pentagon, the State Department and the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        After the war she used a recommendation from Mr. Moses to get a job working on transportation issues in Nassau County. She then worked for the United Nations, raising money for Unicef and helping refugees in Bremen, Germany.
        For years Ms. Clark continued to fight for civic improvements, as a member of her Upper East Side community board and in other forums. She led the successful fight to expand bus service on First Avenue to better serve the hospitals there. She lobbied to build four tracks rather than the planned two on the Second Avenue subway should that ill-starred line ever be built.
        She is survived by a sister, Margaret Vander Veer of Charlotte, N. C.
      