
        Sarah Caudwell, the British author whose modest but ecstatically received output of three erudite and maliciously witty mystery novels led at least one critic to compare her to Oscar Wilde, died on Jan. 28 at her home in London. She was 60.
        The cause was cancer, said Barney Karpfinger, her agent.
        Ms. Caudwell produced her first novel, ''Thus Was Adonis Murdered,'' in 1981, during an accomplished career as a Chancery barrister. The novel was set in Lincoln's Inn Fields, where the author had practiced law. It featured a sleuth, Hilary Tamar, who taught law at Oxford, as did Ms. Caudwell.
        Although the story revolved around the lusty antics of ''a decorative little group'' of junior barristers, it was the classical erudition and acerbic tongue of the narrator, whose sex is never stated, that set the droll tone of the series. ''I am an  historian'' was Tamar's explanation for the devious workings of his or her mind. ''My profession largely consists of speaking ill of the dead.''
        ''The Shortest Way to Hades''  (1985) and ''The Sirens Sang of Murder'' (1989) continued in the same elegantly mannered style, with stories bound up in arcane areas of British law and steeped in obscure allusions to classical literature. (A crucial clue in ''The Shortest Way to Hades'' is embedded in Book XI of ''The Odyssey.'') Her final novel, ''The Sybil in Her Grave,'' which deals with insider stock trading and corporate takeovers, will be published in June by Delacorte Press.
        The incisiveness of her legal points won her admirers among members of the profession, including Robert Bork (who was once quoted as saying, ''In my opinion, there can't be too many Sarah Caudwell novels''), while the gleeful savagery of her satiric style made her a darling of the critics. Newgate Callendar, in The New York Times Book Review, praised her for writing ''in a kind of English that has not been around since the days of Oscar Wilde.''
        Sarah Caudwell was born May 27, 1939, to the author and journalist Claud Cockburn and his wife, Jean Ross, the actress and writer who was Christopher Isherwood's model for Sally Bowles in his Berlin stories and the musical ''Cabaret.'' Ms. Caudwell chose the surname Caudwell because it was a family name. She is survived by her half-brothers, the political writers Alexander, Andrew and Patrick Cockburn.
        Her family ''recognized how much of Sarah there was in her characters,'' Andrew Cockburn said. ''There are certain aspects of Hilary Tamar, certain eccentricities, that are pure Sarah, although not Sarah's pipe-smoking. And, of course, that acuity of mind. Sarah had this incredibly sharp brain, which was evidenced by her success at both navigating and portraying what someone in Oliver Cromwell's Parliament once called 'the tortuous, ungodly jungle of English law.' ''
        She graduated from Aberdeen University and received her law degree at St. Ann's College, Oxford. When she arrived there, the Oxford Union, a prestigious debating society, was still closed to women, said Andrew Cockburn. She led the fight that changed that, and she made her point at one off-limits event that she attended dressed as a man. Her disguise was discovered and she was ejected, but ultimately won the war.
        She joined the Chancery bar in 1966 and worked in property and tax law. When she joined Lloyds Bank, she became a senior executive in the trust department.
        ''As a woman, she had to have had a first-class mind to join the Chancery bar, to have built up a successful practice and to have become a senior executive at Lloyds,'' said a friend and fellow barrister, John Tackebury. ''All these institutions were highly resistant to women at a senior level, and certainly to a woman who smoked a pipe.''
      