
        Doris Kenner-Jackson, a founding member of the Shirelles, one of the first and most emotionally affecting of pop's girl groups, died on Friday at a hospital in Sacramento, Calif. She was 58.
        The cause was breast cancer, said her niece, Lauren Nance.
        Ms. Kenner-Jackson was born Doris Coley in 1941 in Goldsboro, N.C., and moved with her family to Passaic, N.J., as a teenager. She soon began performing at parties and talent shows with her friends Shirley Owens (later Shirley Alston Reeves), Addie Harris and Beverly Lee.
        A classmate introduced the foursome to her mother, Florence Greenberg, the pioneering manager and a founder of Tiara Records, who soon signed the group to record for her label.
        The Shirelles co-wrote their first single, the precocious schoolyard round ''I Met Him on a Sunday,'' which earned so much radio play that Decca Records bought it and distributed it nationally. After that, the group recorded many hits and earned ardent fans including the Beatles, who covered the quartet's songs ''Baby It's You'' and ''Boys.''
        Ms. Kenner-Jackson usually sang harmonies during the Shirelles' heyday, but she did take the lead on the group's passionate version of the Five Royales' song, ''Dedicated to the One I Love.'' Her vocals captured the reckless yearning of the teenage heart.
        She also sang the lead on many lesser-known Shirelles songs, including ''Blue Holiday'' and ''I Saw a Tear.''
        The Shirelles stayed together until 1968, broke up and reunited, and finally splintered in the 1970's. Ms. Kenner-Jackson kept performing in one of three postbreakup versions of the group.
        She briefly worked for Federal Express in the 1970's, but mostly stayed active on the oldies-revival circuit. Despite her two-year fight with cancer, she was entertaining audiences until a few weeks before her death, said Ms. Nance, of Paterson, N.J.
        In 1994, when the Rhythm and Blues Foundation gave the Shirelles a Heritage Award, Ms. Kenner-Jackson sang with the group's other surviving members, Ms. Alston Reeves and Ms. Lee, for the first time in 19 years, Harris having died in 1982. The threesome met again when they were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996.
        Ms. Kenner-Jackson, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by four children, Antonio Kenner, Gary Kenner, Tracey Jackson, and Staci Jackson-Richardson, all of Sacramento; two sisters, Ernestine Francies of Passaic and Agnes Coley of Bloomfield, N.J.; a brother, Jeremiah Coley of Paterson, four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      