
        Mae Faggs Starr, an Olympic champion sprinter and the first renowned athlete of the Tigerbelle women's track teams at Tennessee State University, died Jan. 27 at her home in Woodlawn, Ohio. She was 67.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Eddie Starr.
        In the 1950's, when women's track and field began its emergence, the Tigerbelles became a national force. Tennessee State's most heralded sprinter would be Wilma Rudolph, who at the 1960 Games in Rome became the first American woman to capture three gold medals in a single Olympics. Faggs, known as ''the mother of the Tigerbelles,'' was the first American woman to compete in three Olympics and was a mentor to Rudolph.
        At the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki, Finland, she ran the first leg on the 4x100 relay that captured a gold medal in a world-record 45.9 seconds, teaming with Barbara Jones, who would go on to Tennessee State; Catherine Hardy; and Janet Moreau.
        At the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, Faggs ran on an all-Tennessee State 4x100 relay squad -- with Rudolph, Margaret Matthews and Isabelle Daniels -- that won a bronze medal.
        Faggs won 11 national Amateur Athletic Union titles and was inducted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in Indianapolis in 1976.
        Aeriwentha Mae Faggs was born in Mays Landing, N.J., but grew up in New York City. She was a student at Bayside High School in Queens when, at age 16, she competed in the 1948 Olympics in London, failing to qualify for the 200-meter finals.
        In the fall of 1952, she left for Tennessee State, a historically black school in Nashville. She had never been in the South and was warned by her father about the segregation she would face. But she thrived at Tennessee State, having been the first athlete recruited by Ed Temple, who would build a national reputation as the Tennessee State women's track coach and an Olympic coach.
        ''She had a lot of determination, a lot of drive,'' Temple recalled Tuesday from his home in Nashville. ''She didn't back off from anybody, and she was a good student.''
        Faggs was tested early on by her teammates.
        ''I was already a national outdoor champion, I was national indoor champion, I had been to the Olympics,'' she recalled in an interview with Runner's World magazine in 1993. ''My teammates, all they cared about in practice was running past Mae Faggs. You couldn't let your guard down at all because if one ran past you . . . hey. They turned around and gave you one of those looks that said, 'Uh-huh, I got you now.' ''
        With the Melbourne Games coming up, Faggs was trying for her third Olympic berth while Rudolph was a teenager hoping for her first. At the United States trials, Faggs set out to steady Rudolph's nerves with the finals of the 200 meters in sight even though they would compete against each other.
        ''I knew Wilma was nervous because she was only 16, and I knew how nervous I was at 16 trying to make the Olympic team,'' Faggs remembered. ''So I told her: 'You do everything I do.' And she says, 'O.K.'
        ''In the 200, Wilma was on the inside lane, I was in the second lane, and I couldn't see her coming out of the corner of my eye. So I turned my head and said, 'Come on.' And she said, 'I'm coming.' And she was coming. I mean, she was blowing down that straightaway. I had to reach back and get some of those horses I didn't think I had to beat her.''
        After graduating from Tennessee State, Faggs received a master's degree from the University of Cincinnati and then taught physical education at high schools in the Cincinnati area.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eddie Starr II, of Phoenix, and a daughter, Evelyn Starr, of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Melvin Faggs, of New York City, and Steve Murray, of Huntsville, Ala.; and two grandchildren.
      