
        Jacqueline Auriol, the glamorous French flier who set several speed records as one of the world's leading military test pilots in the 1950's and 60's, died Saturday at her Paris home. She was 82.
        Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and married the son of the man who would become president of France. However, she would eventually transcend her role as the official tea pourer of Elysee Palace to succeed in a field that had been almost entirely masculine, except for Hanna Reitsch of Germany, a test pilot for the Third Reich.
        Ms. Auriol's life was transformed when her face was crushed in a 1949 accident in a plane in which she was a passenger. She endured 33 plastic surgery operations over the next three years. (She did not see her two sons, Jean-Claude and Jean-Paul, until her face was as restored as possible. It seemed to work: a newspaper commented that her nose might now be American, but her smile remained unmistakably French.)  Rather than discouraging her, the experience turned her resolve to achieving greatness in the air.
        Though she had learned stunt flying before her accident, her goal became nothing less than breaking the sound barrier. She watched the Vampire fighter being built in 1951 and eagerly volunteered to be one of the first to fly it.
        ''That day I experienced a sense of completeness,'' she told Collier's magazine, ''an extraordinary sensation of power.''
        But she had to settle for being the second woman to break the sound barrier, in 1953. The first was Jacqueline Cochran, an American, earlier that year. The two Jacquelines were to become famous rivals, as each in turn would edge beyond the other in speed.
        Jacqueline Douet was born on Nov. 5, 1917, at Challans, a small town on the Bay of Biscay. Her father, Pierre Douet, was a wealthy shipbuilder. She spent most of her childhood at Nantes, then studied art in Paris at L'Ecole du Louvre. On weekends, she would ski in the French Alps.
        In 1936, she meet her future husband, Paul Auriol, through a friend who was a ski champion. His father, Vincent, was a prominent leader of the Socialist Party. Both families opposed an alliance between Socialists and wealthy industrialists, so they insisted they were too young to marry. She was sent to Sweden, while Paul toured Italy.
        However, two years after their original meeting, they married at a small mountain chapel. They divorced in 1967 and remarried in 1987. She was later widowed. Only her two sons survive her.
        When World War II broke out, she refused to leave France while her husband was in the resistance movement. She lived in hiding under a false identity. ''I began to realize that I loved danger,'' she told The Washington Post in 1970.
        After the war, her father-in-law became president and she, her husband and Jean-Paul, her older son, moved into Elysee Palace. She soon realized ''the parties and receptions were not enough to keep my interest.'' At dinner one night, she sat next to a flying ace and was so captivated by his stories that she asked if she and her husband could take flying lessons from him.
        ''It was very difficult politically for my father-in-law because so few women flew at this time,'' she said.  ''I was pretty and I knew I was pretty. There was publicity and I began to be heavily criticized for my flying.''
        The result was that her husband gave up flying, while she dropped out of the social and political life to devote herself to it. Then the accident happened. ''I was broken into a million pieces,'' she said. ''I had no face, no nose, nothing.'' She needed a new purpose in life. ''I had the chance of my life to really become a good pilot,'' she said. ''Now that my beauty was gone I would have to derive a reason for being from the plane which had taken it away.''
        As an aviatrix, as Current Biography listed her in its 1950's coverage of her achievements, she succeeded greatly, flying more than 100 types of aircraft. She received aviation awards from Presidents Truman and Eisenhower. She was decorated with France's Legion d'Honneur and wrote an autobiography called ''Vivre pour Voler,'' meaning living for flying. At her death, Jacques Chirac, President of France, called her ''the incarnation of courage and modernity for the French people.''
        Her conception of modernity did not include all of feminist philosophy. ''These very feminist women irritate me when they say, 'Men hold me back,' '' she said. ''It's not true.''
        But she never undervalued the effect of luck. She had a narrow brush with death in 1956, for example, when her Mystere IV plane went into spin and she managed to bring it back under control only a few dozen yards from the ground.
        It was all worth it. In the Colliers interview, she spoke of the rows of flowers on the grounds of Elysee Palace. ''Poor creatures,'' she said, ''guardians and ornaments of the Elysee. Once my life was like theirs.'' She then smiled broadly. ''Perhaps I should teach them to fly,'' she said.
      