
        Louisa Matthiasdottir, an exemplar of the strain of painterly representation that runs through the history of postwar American art, died Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y. She was 83 and lived in New York from 1942 until late 1999, when she moved to Delhi to live with her daughter, Temma Bell, who is also painter.
        Ms. Matthiasdottir, whose nickname was Ulla, was born in Reykjavik, Iceland, in 1917. She came to New York in 1942 and had her first solo show at the Jane Street Gallery, New York's first artists' cooperative, in 1948. A laconic, independent woman, she gave few interviews and did not teach painting or write about her work. ''As to painting, I just start painting and that's about it,'' she once said.
        Those few words summed up a style that was similarly cryptic and to the point, and that reduced the world to a series of simple, blocky shapes and angled planes of clear, ringing color, all dispatched with a crisp, unfettered directness that allowed no reworking.
        It was a style that was at once cool and celebratory, and Ms. Matthiasdottir deployed it evenhandedly. Her work included portraits and self-portraits, still lifes, interiors and distilled, light-filled paintings of the coastal landscape of Iceland, which she depicted as sparsely populated by houses, horses or sheep. She maintained close ties to Iceland, where she came to be viewed as something of a national treasure. She visited almost annually and retained her Icelandic citizenship.
        Although Ms. Matthiasdottir enjoyed both critical and financial success in New York, especially after 1970, official recognition proved elusive. She was, for example, included in only one Whitney Biennial, in 1973, and is not represented in any of the city's four major museums. She was one of several postwar artists who, despite Abstract Expressionism's unanimous success, persisted in the notion that abstraction and representation were not mutually exclusive states, that one could paint from reality in a way that gave form, color and paint a power all their own.
        The artists who acted on this belief in the late 1940's and early 50's included Robert de Niro Sr. and his wife, Catherine Admiral, Nicholas Carone, Fairfield Porter, Alex Katz and later Nell Blaine, as well as San Franciscans like David Park. Yet Ms. Matthiasdottir's style took root in Iceland before the war.
        She was born into a well-to-do family in Reykjavik, where her father was a prominent surgeon. Her parents encouraged her painting, she once said, because they never saw her do anything else. In 1934 she was sent to Copenhagen, where she enrolled in a three-year course at the School of Commercial Art, which encouraged her penchant for simplification and bright color. In 1938 her parents took her to Paris, where she studied with Marcel Gromaire and encountered the work of Matisse. She then returned to Reykjavik and worked for two years among the city's small, struggling avant-garde.
        Ms. Matthiasdottir developed a style that merged the post-Impressionism of Edvard Munch with the palette of Fauvism, as well as the influences of less well-known Scandinavian modernists. When she came to New York she intended to study at the Art Students League, but ended up attending classes taught by Hans Hofmann, whose emphasis on structure and strong color she found compatible. Within a year of her arrival she met Leland Bell, a tall, handsome painter who was as voluble as she was aloof. Their marriage in 1944 marked the beginning of a partnership that included side-by-side studios in their house on 16th Street, occasional double exhibitions and a shared gallery, the Robert Schoelkopf Gallery on Madison Avenue, where Ms. Matthiasdottir had 17 solo shows between 1964 and 1991.
        Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, the Indiana Art Museum in Bloomington and the National Gallery of Iceland in Reykjavik.
        Mr. Bell died in 1991. In addition to her daughter, Ms. Matthiasdottir is survived by four granddaughters.
        Correction:  March 4, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of the artist Louisa Matthiasdottir on Thursday misstated the given name of a postwar artist with whom she shared the belief that abstraction and representationalism were not mutually exclusive approaches to painting. The artist was Virginia Admiral, not Catherine.
      