
        Christi Finch, whose catering shop, Word of Mouth, was among the first to produce luxury takeout food on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, died on Tuesday. She was 54.
        Her death, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, came after a prolonged gastrointestinal illness, her family said.
        Ms. Finch's down-home charm made even the newest customers feel welcome when they shopped for  delicacies like brandied pate and a spiced pumpkin mousse or homespun offerings like meatloaf and giant chocolate chip cookies.
        Ms. Finch and her partner, Eileen Weinberg, opened the first Word of Mouth on East 72nd Street near Lexington Avenue in 1976, at a time when most takeout food consisted of mundane fare. The partners had met at  Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospital, where they both worked in administration. Discovering a shared love of food, the two self-taught cooks baked  cakes for doctors, some of whom became their backers.
        Together Ms. Finch and Ms. Weinberg turned out their interpretations of ethnic foods, with a strong emphasis on Mediterranean cuisines, including Moroccan specialties, then rare in New York City. They offered copious portions of dishes that were at once lusty, yet subtly stylish, and their high prices rarely deterred affluent neighborhood customers.
        Shortly after the shop moved to its present quarters at 1012 Lexington Avenue in 1979, Ms. Weinberg left to open a restaurant and her own takeout food shop, Good and Plenty to Go, in the Theater District.
        Ms. Finch also opened Cafe Word of Mouth and began to work on a cookbook. The restaurant and cafe are still open.
        Christi Kangas grew up in a food-oriented family in Cutler City, Ore.  Her father, George Kangas, was in the grocery business, and her mother, Janice, tested recipes at home for a local flour mill. Ms. Finch's lifelong appreciation of the freshest seasonal produce began in the vegetable garden of her grandmother.
        As a young woman, Ms. Finch settled in New York, where she married Thomas Finch in 1967; they were divorced a few years later.
        She is survived by her daughter, Pilar; her parents, of Lincoln City, Ore.; and her sisters, Kathryn Amrani, Sheila Coventry and Sharon Borgford, who all live in the Portland, Ore., area.
      