
        Margaret Rosezarian Harris, a musician and educator who was the first black woman to conduct the  symphony orchestras of Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Minnesota and 11 other American cities, died on March 7 in New York City. She was 56 and lived in Elmsford, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Sandra G. Owen, a friend.
        Ms. Harris was born in Chicago on Sept. 15, 1943, the only child of Dewey and Clara Townsend Harris. Before her fourth birthday, she played a public piano recital of 18 short pieces and three encores, all performed from memory. She was soon performing in halls as far from home as the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco, earning as much as $2,000 a performance.
        When she was 6, her parents ended the tours and placed her in school. At 10 she performed with the Chicago Symphony and won a scholarship to the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia.  Ms. Harris's mother moved with her to Philadelphia, working there as a dressmaker. Her father, a Pennsylvania Railroad mechanic, remained in Chicago, visiting his wife and daughter regularly until his death in 1967.
        Ms. Harris later earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the Juilliard School. Her graduate work was supported by a grant from the Leopold Schepp Foundation. Ms. Harris would later become a trustee of the foundation.
        Though piano was her first love and she played solo recitals in the United States and abroad, Ms. Harris gained the most prominence as a conductor. She worked on Broadway as well, notably as music director of the musical ''Hair,'' a position she took over in 1970. Her orchestra was made up of seven male musicians, all older than she.
        ''They don't give me a bit of trouble personally or professionally,'' Ms. Harris was quoted as saying in a New York Times article about this pioneering engagement for a black woman. She added, ''It's like having an unlimited charge account at Saks Fifth Avenue.''
        In 1995, she was invited by the United States Information Service of the United States Embassy in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, to serve as an American cultural specialist for a production there of ''Porgy and Bess.''
        Among her compositions are two ballets, an opera called ''King David'' and two piano concertos, the second of which was performed twice with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, conducted by Zubin Mehta.
        Last month Ms. Harris was appointed associate dean of the Pennsylvania Academy of Music in Lancaster, a position she was scheduled to assume in June.
        No immediate family members survive.
      