
        Jean Howard, who rode the comet of her extraordinary beauty, ethereal glamour and insouciant intelligence to become a Ziegfeld girl, a Hollywood starlet, a legendary hostess and the house photographer of the film colony, died at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Monday. She was 89.
        Ms. Howard's circle included Tyrone Power, Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Jennifer Jones, Merle Oberon, Gary Cooper, Marlene Dietrich, Greta Garbo, Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe -- impressive company for the daughter of a traveling salesman. She thrived in a seemingly ancient time when stars socialized for purposes other than publicity, including simply enjoying each other's company.
        They played croquet in matches that lasted years (with timeouts for rest, refreshment and the occasional movie), played on California beaches and hung out in Palm Beach, Palm Springs and the south of France. They also mingled at Ms. Howard's Spanish-style home on Coldwater Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills; she and her first husband, Charles K. Feldman, who used his success as the first super-agent to become a producer, bought it for $18,000 in 1942.
        Everywhere, Ms. Howard snapped pictures. One shows Gene Tierney, then a top star at 20th Century Fox, in pigtails, looking longingly into the handsome face of the mysterious millionaire Howard Hughes. Another shows a tipsy Richard Burton kissing everyone in sight, including a less-than-charmed Clifton Webb.
        Still another shows Dietrich almost touching heads with Ann Warner, wife of Jack, the studio head, as they intensely discussed never-to-be-known secrets over a smoky table at the Trocadero nightclub in Los Angeles. Linda Christian can be seen being fitted for her wedding gown to marry Tyrone Power.
        Many of these photographs were stored in shoe boxes. Meanwhile, Ms. Howard studied photography and began to get assignments taking pictures for magazines like Life and Vogue. Years later, the idea coalesced to combine her snapshots and professional work in a picture book.
        In 1989, Harry N. Abrams published ''Jean Howard's Hollywood: A Photo Memoir.'' James Watters wrote the text, which is delivered through Ms. Howard's first-person voice. The book evokes a lost world where stars lived lives that were breathtakingly glamorous, but still somehow life-sized.
        In the pictures, everyone, it seems, is smoking. Everyone is holding a drink, everyone is dressed in black tie or cocktail dress. People gather around the piano and sing. Conga lines end up in swimming pools.
        ''These photographs bring back memories of a time and a place that have long since faded,'' Ms. Howard wrote in the book's introduction. ''Hollywood has changed and things don't happen as they once did. Never mind. The people who crowd these pages are clear as snowcapped mountains on a bright sunny day.''
        Ms. Howard was born Ernestine Hill in Longview, Tex., and grew up in Dallas. She became acquainted with a local photographer, who had discovered several child stars, including Ginger Rogers, and believed she had a bright future. So she changed her last name to that of the photographer, Mahoney, even though her father continued to foot the bills for her fashion shows and beauty contests.
        Her father took her to Hollywood one summer in the late 1920's. ''I was his coverup while he was on a two-week toot with a girlfriend behind my stepmother's back,'' she said in the book.
        She soon returned to Hollywood and checked into the all-girl Studio Club, founded by Mary Pickford to help young hopefuls working toward movie careers. In 1930 she landed a contract with Metro Goldwyn Mayer, appearing first as a chorus girl in ''Whoopee,'' Eddie Cantor's Broadway musical hit.
        Florenz Ziegfeld, who had produced the Broadway show and was a partner in the film, asked her and three other showgirls to go to New York for his next musical, ''Smiles.'' Ziegfeld cast her under the name Jean Howard, which he deemed less cumbersome than Ernestine Mahoney. She got a part in the last ''Ziegfeld Follies,'' where one review cited her ''pulchritude, figure and charm.''
        As an MGM contract player she had small roles in a number of movies in the 1930's and 1940's, including ''Broadway to Hollywood'' and ''The Prizefighter and the Lady.'' The studio chief Louis B. Mayer, passionately attracted to her, proposed marriage and promised to divorce his wife. She said later that when she rejected him he got drunk and tried to throw himself out of a window.
        She became engaged to Feldman, a lawyer and film agent, who is credited with being the first to sell director, actors and other talent as a single package. According to The New York Times of Aug. 26, 1934, the two had attended a Friday night dinner party at the Colony restaurant in New York and decided to get married immediately.
        Mayer's jealous threat to torpedo Feldman's career did not materialize, and the agent went on to play an increasingly prominent role in Hollywood, eventually producing ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' in 1951, among other films.
        The couple had a famously tempestuous relationship, which resulted in a divorce in 1948. But they continued living in the same house, with its tortoise shell pedestals and Chinese porcelain lamps and a garden room where Judy Garland belted out songs on many occasions. They called it their ''can't live with you, can't live without you postmarital relationship.''
        In a 1989 interview with The San Diego Union-Tribune, Ms. Howard said she ''wanted to be the other woman in his life.''
        Ms. Howard traveled extensively, often with her friend Cole Porter. That resulted in another picture book, ''Travels With Cole Porter,'' published in 1991.
        In 1964, she felt seasick on a Mediterranean cruise and got off the yacht in Capri. She went to a nightclub called Number Two, where a band called the Shakers was playing. She asked a band member, Tony Santoro, if he would play a song she had written. He did, though not necessarily because of its quality.
        ''I was more interested in this beautiful woman than the music,'' he said in a telephone interview. They lived together for nine years, mainly in Capri and Rome, and were married in 1973. He is her only immediate survivor.
        Ms. Howard once said that ''glamour is flimsy.'' She knew the stars as people, including one of her favorite subjects, Marilyn Monroe. ''She didn't know who she was or who she belonged to,'' Ms. Howard told the San Diego paper. ''The marriages never gave her anything to go on. There was the ballplayer (Joe DiMaggio) and Arthur Miller.
        ''Miller was a very good writer and all of that, but I have never seen him in anybody's living room, and I have been in a few living rooms.''
        Then there was the party she gave for Senator John F. Kennedy during the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, at which he won his party's nomination. After everyone had left and she was cleaning up, she heard someone scratching at the window screen, according to a 1993 article in Town & Country.
        She looked out and saw Kennedy, who said, ''I'm starving and nothing's open at this hour.'' She led him to the kitchen and fed him scrambled eggs. She said the senator then pulled her to him and kissed her. She told the magazine that people would have to read her autobiography to find out what happened.
        But she never published one.
      