
        Vivian Fine, a composer who wrote ballet scores for Martha Graham and Jose Limon, as well as copious amounts of orchestral, chamber and vocal music, died on Monday at the Southern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington after an automobile accident. She was 86 and lived in Hoosick Falls, N.Y.
        Ms. Fine composed in a style that evolved gracefully over the years. Her early works, with their expressive dissonance, inventive counterpoint and sharp rhythmic edges, reflect both the influence of her teacher, Roger Sessions, and the practical demands of writing for modern dance groups. Later she developed a language in which technical demands and a slightly acerbic sensibility were balanced by wit and lyricism. By the late 1980's her shorter works were being included regularly in recital and chamber programs.
        Ms. Fine was born in Chicago on Sept. 28, 1913, and began her musical life as a piano prodigy. She won a scholarship to the Chicago Musical College when she was 5. She later studied with Djane Lavoie-Herz, a student of Scriabin. Her early composition teachers included Ruth Crawford Seeger and Adolf Weidig. She moved to New York in 1931, where she continued her piano studies with Abby Whiteside and studied composition with Sessions.
        In the mid-1930's Ms. Fine worked as a rehearsal pianist for several New York dance companies, and within a few years she was composing for them as well. Among her early ballet scores are ''The Race of Life'' (1937) for Doris Humphrey, ''Opus 51'' (1938) for Charles Weidman and ''Tragic Exodus'' and ''They Too Are Exiles'' (both 1939) for Hanya Holm. She later wrote ''Alcestis'' (1960) for Graham and ''My Son, My Enemy'' (1965) for Limon.
        Ms. Fine's symphonic works include ''Elegiac Song'' for muted strings (1937) and ''Meeting for Equal Rights 1866,'' for soprano, baritone, narrator and chorus (1976).
        As an active campaigner for American music, she helped found the American Composers Alliance in 1938 and was its vice president from 1961 to 1965. She was also concerned with feminist issues. One of her operas, ''The Women in the Garden'' (1978), includes among its scenes a colloquy between Virginia Woolf, Isadora Duncan, Gertrude Stein and Emily Dickinson, using quotations from their writings. Her last major work, ''The Memoirs of Uliana Rooney'' (1994), was a multimedia opera with a libretto by Sonya Friedman that followed a female composer through the decades of the 20th century. The work is partly autobiographical but alludes as well to Alma Mahler and Ruth Crawford Seeger.
        Still, Ms. Fine was uneasy with the idea of defining composers by their sex. ''I hope the term 'woman composer' will be dropped soon,'' she told an interviewer from The New York Times in 1989. ''I think we are in a better place than we were 20 years ago. Women are accepted in literature, painting and sculpture. We don't talk of 'poetesses' anymore. And woman performers as soloists -- singers, pianists, violinists -- have been accepted for a long time.''
        Ms. Fine taught composition at the Juilliard School, New York University, the State University of New York at Potsdam and Bennington College in Vermont.
        She is survived by a sister, Adelaide Fine of Shaftsbury, Vt., and two daughters, Peggy Karp of Berkeley, Calif., and Nina Karp of North Bennington, Vt.
        Correction:  March 28, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary of the composer Vivian Fine on Friday omitted a survivor. He is her husband, Benjamin Karp of Hoosick Falls, N.Y.
      