
        Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A. conspirator, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. She was 84.
        Ms. Grau, politically engaged since adolescence, spent four separate periods in exile in Miami because of her work. There, many admired her for her work in helping smuggle thousands of children out of Cuba in Operation Pedro Pan, a secret program run by the Catholic Church in the United States with the aid of the State Department.
        She came to Miami from her native Havana for the first time during her senior year in high school, graduating there from a local parochial school.
        She was a niece of Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin, a professor of physiology who served as Cuba's provisional president in 1933 and '34 and as president from 1944 to 1948. During his first term, Dr. Grau, a bachelor, made his niece, then known as Maria Leopoldina Grau, his official first lady at state events.
        Dr. Grau had been a central figure in the student rebellion against President Gerardo Machado (1925-33), a nationalist who grew increasingly autocratic. Ms. Grau was involved in the campus rebellion as a member of radical and liberal student groups.
        Born into a wealthy family, she at first also supported the movement that sent the dictator Fulgencio Batista into exile in 1959. But her enthusiasm for the ensuing Castro regime did not last when it instituted its program of nationalizing businesses.
        With her brother, Ramon Grau Alsina, she helped send some 14,000 children to Miami in the early 1960's. They were the offspring of parents who feared their Communist indoctrination or were involved in the anti-Castro resistance.
        Once in the United States, they were placed by the church in camps or foster homes; some of them were never reunited with their parents.
        Ms. Grau and her brother were arrested in 1965 and accused of plotting to overthrow Fidel Castro, who was then Cuba's prime minister. They were convicted for their role in Pedro Pan and of having had dealings with the Central Intelligence Agency, which denied the connection.
        Both got 30-year sentences, but Ms. Grau was freed in 1978 when Mr. Castro released a large number of political prisoners as part of a relaxation encouraged by President Jimmy Carter. Ramon Grau was freed in 1986 and followed her to Miami, where he died in 1998.
        Ms. Grau's survivors include a daughter, Hilda Aguero, six grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      