
        Vivian Harris, a comedian and chorus girl and the performer with the most recorded appearances -- 10,000 -- at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, died Feb. 18 in Englewood, N.J. She was 97.
        Ms. Harris, who died at the Nursing and Retirement Home of the Actors Fund of America, was one of the women hired by the manager of the Cotton Club for a new chorus line when Duke Ellington came to play for the white audience there. She was one of the first ever to dance the Charleston, in the 1923 Broadway  show ''Runnin' Wild.''
        She performed with the top black comics Pigmeat Markham, Spider Bruce and Ralph Cooper during the  Depression years, when comedy kept the Apollo afloat.
        Leonard Reed, a singer and dancer at the Apollo in 1935 and theater manager from 1950 to 1960, remembers her as ''one of the sweetest girls I ever met in my life.'' Indeed, the two were sweethearts from 1927 until 1929. Until the Apollo started using masters of ceremony in the mid-1950's, he said, it was her voice, clear and precise, that came from behind the curtain to announce the night's big attraction.
        ''She would say, 'The Apollo Theater takes great pleasure in presenting Duke Ellington' or Cab Calloway, or whoever,'' he said.
        William Miles, a filmmaker who made the 1981 documentary ''I Remember Harlem,'' said Ms. Harris was known as the Voice of the Apollo. In addition to her announcements, he said, she often sang ''I May Be Wrong, but I Think You're Wonderful.''
        Ms. Harris was born on Dec. 23, 1902, in Harlem. She was the second of five daughters; the others were Lottie, Margie, Lorraine and Edna Mae, who became a star of the black cinema. Her father, Sam, gained some fame as a boxer and then became a customs inspector. Her mother, Mary, worked as a maid for the Gay 90's pin-up Lillian Russell, among others.
        As blacks gradually moved uptown, the Harrises were among the first black families to migrate to Harlem. They wanted to be near the new home of their church. Their brownstone on 132nd Street was also near the Lafayette Theater, where stars like Ethel Waters, Maud Russell and Butterbeans and Susie would perform.
        Her sister Lottie was something of a groupie; she would invite the performers to the house for dinner and often to stay for the night. Mr. Harris said, ''I might as well open a rooming house,'' and did.
        This resulted in the stars' practicing routines in the house's big kitchen. They worked with the girls on their singing and dancing skills and  encouraged them to pursue show business careers. All but Margie did.
        After graduating from Julia Richmond High School, Vivian joined ''Shuffle Along,'' the Broadway production put together in 1921 by the ragtime pianist Eubie Blake and the singer and lyricist Noble Sissle. The show ushered in a series of successful black musicals on Broadway.
        Ms. Harris went on to be a chorus girl in ''Runnin' Wild,'' with music by James P. Johnson and lyrics by Cecil Mack, which added a new dance, the Charleston, to the national repertory. Mae Barnes introduced the dance in the first act, but Ms. Harris's spirited third-act version also drew enthusiastic attention.
        A review in The New York Times of Oct. 31, 1923, said that in addition to its funny comedy, the show ''excels in eccentric dancing -- some of the most exciting steps of the season (though steps is not always the right word, for knees are used more often than ankles) are now on view at the Colonial.''
        Ms. Harris performed in other productions on what came to be known as Black Broadway. She traveled to Paris, London and other European cities with Lew Leslie's ''Blackbirds,'' a theatrical revue. Working with Tim Moore, who became famous as Kingfish in the ''Amos 'n' Andy'' television series, she performed the burial scene from the play ''Porgy,'' the precursor to the same scene in Gershwin's opera ''Porgy and Bess.''
        When Duke Ellington started at the Cotton Club in 1927, the manager hired a new chorus line, which included Ms. Harris. ''They had nothing but light girls, they didn't have any real dark girls there at the time,'' Ms. Harris said in the Harlem documentary. ''Only the two girls at the ends of the line were dark.'' She was considered light.
        The women wore big, feathery costumes, and Ms. Harris's exotic tap dance caught the eye of one of Ellington's trumpet players, Louis Metcalf. The two were married, with cases of  Champagne to celebrate, despite Prohibition. Ms. Harris said the gangsters who controlled the Cotton Club were the benefactors.
        In 1935 Frank Schiffman, the manager of the Lafayette Theater, bought a burlesque house on 125th Street that Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia had ordered closed. It became the Apollo.
        Ms. Harris started there in 1935 as the voice behind the curtain, and over the years performed with almost all the popular black comedy acts. She played in the first rendition of Pigmeat Markham's ''Here comes  the judge'' skit, immortalized for a later generation by Flip Wilson.
        In Dusty Fletcher's ''Open the door, Richard'' skit, another classic of the black comedic stage, she played the woman in the window  Dusty vainly tried to reach.
        When Mr. Moore went out to California to play Kingfish on ''Amos 'n' Andy,'' he recommended Ms. Harris to play Kingfish's wife, Sapphire. She flunked the screen test.
        ''I came out looking too white,'' Ms. Harris said. ''I was rejected and it broke my heart.''
        But she stayed at the Apollo until 1970, working as cashier and in the wardrobe department when she was not onstage. Undoubtedly, some of her 10,000 appearances involved exchanging tickets for money in the box office.
        Her sister Edna Mae, who left home to star in films, including ''The Green Pastures'' in 1936 and ''The Notorious Elinor Lee'' in 1940, always lamented that her sister did not aim higher.
        ''She could have had a career like Ethel Waters or Alberta Hunter,'' Edna Mae said in the 1980's. ''I still don't know why she stayed.''
        Vivian's marriage was brief, and she never remarried. There are no immediate survivors. But when she visited Harlem, as she did almost every day until recent years, everybody greeted her.
        Mr. Reed, Ms. Harris's long-ago boyfriend, was known for his theme song, ''It's Over Because We're Through.'' But he says he cannot  remember why he and Ms. Harris broke up.
        ''There wasn't a hate bone in Vivian's body,'' he said.
      