
        Anna Sokolow, a modern-dance choreographer known for her social commitment and searing depictions of urban loneliness, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90.
        As a dancer and choreographer, beginning in the 1930's, Miss Sokolow was concerned with the toll that society exacts on the individual; her signature pieces were powerful studies in alienation. But she could also create lyrical dance poems that were terse and penetrating. Pain was rarely absent from her work, but her style was abstract, not literal, focused on the essence of deep feeling.
        She was equally at home with actors and dancers and often choreographed for the theater, including the Leonard Bernstein musical ''Candide.'' For many years, she taught courses in movement to actors at the HB Studio, directed by Herbert Berghof and the actress Uta Hagen. Miss Sokolow used movement ''as a human experience, not formally, not mechanistically,'' Miss Hagen said at a program at the Kaye Playhouse in honor of Miss Sokolow's 85th birthday.
        Jerome Robbins, whose ballets in the 1950's often also dealt with alienation, said at the same tribute, ''She has influenced us all.''
        Miss Sokolow consistently portrayed losers, underdogs, the disaffected and questioners of life's meaning. Her movement style was known for its passages of hopeless running in place, silent screams, accusatory stares and sudden falls. Sympathetic to youthful rebellion, she became famous for her images of young people glaring confrontationally at the audience.
        If her themes seemed deliberately restricted, the impact of her work was genuine. It surprised no one in the dance community that in 1966 she  was one of seven choreographers who were awarded the initial dance grants made by the recently established National Council on the Arts.
        Among her most famous pieces was ''Rooms'' (1955), in which chairs symbolize rooms in a cheap hotel, and the way dancers move on and around those chairs reveals the anxieties and obsessions of the hotel's residents. The work was used in a short film, also titled ''Rooms''  (1966), which featured, among others, Martha Clarke, a Sokolow student at the Juilliard School whose later choreography owed a debt to her mentor. Other Sokolow choreography was preserved by the director Shirley Clarke (Martha Clarke's aunt) in two 1957 films, ''Bullfight'' and ''A Moment in Love.''
        Miss Sokolow often choreographed to jazz, and she cast a keen eye on popular culture. Her ''Opus 65'' (1965) was called a ''beat ballet'' for the way she made young dancers in jeans act out scenes of youthful defiance. The work, danced to a jazz score by Teo Macero, a frequent Sokolow collaborator, was performed by the Joffrey Ballet and ended with the sullen young cast jumping into the orchestra pit.
        In 1967 Miss Sokolow was the first choreographer hired for the rock musical ''Hair,'' but she withdrew from the show before it opened. Two decades earlier, in 1947, she had choreographed ''Street Scene,'' Kurt Weill's somber musical set on the sidewalks of New York.
        Her penchant for pessimistic themes sometimes raised eyebrows. The dance critic Walter Terry said in The Saturday Review in 1967 that ''you can be assured, after seeing any of her dance works, that you'll want to go home and kill yourself.'' Yet Anna Kisselgoff said in The New York Times in 1976 that ''the secret of her success is the way she distills emotion into a few movements.''
        Analyzing her outlook, Miss Sokolow once said: ''I don't have a dim view of humanity. I'm not neurotic. But I don't have that happy philosophy, because what the hell is there to be happy about?''
        Anna Sokolow's early life was one of hardship. Her parents immigrated  from Russia, and she was born in Hartford in 1910; three years later the family moved to New York, where they struggled to survive. Her father developed Parkinson's disease, which steadily incapacitated him until he had to be hospitalized;  her mother worked as a sewing machine operator and was active in the Socialist Party.
        The family lived in poverty on the Lower East Side. But like many immigrants, the Sokolows prized culture and sent Anna as a child to study dancing at a settlement house. She continued her training at the Neighborhood Playhouse, where one of her teachers was Martha Graham. She joined the Graham company in 1930 and remained with it for eight years.
        Even while dancing with Graham, she had a little troupe of her own, the Dance Unit, and gained a reputation as a choreographer with a social conscience. She often collaborated with the composer Alex North, who later worked in Hollywood. The Dance Unit toured the Soviet Union in 1934. But despite her concern for suffering humanity, Miss Sokolow's productions mystified the ballet-loving Russians.
        She played a major role in developing modern dance in another country after 1939, when the Mexican painter Carlos Merida arranged for her to perform in Mexico City. Although a misinformed press agent billed her as a Russian ballerina, her success led her to stay on and found a modern-dance company, La Paloma Azul, in 1940. Financial problems forced it to disband, but its productions influenced many young Mexican choreographers.
        Miss Sokolow returned to Mexico City in 1953 to choreograph for a modern-dance festival. Her premiere was ''Lyric Suite,'' a melancholy mood piece to music by Alban Berg that has since been danced by Miss Sokolow's New York troupe, the Players' Project, and several ballet companies.
        Miss Sokolow also helped influence Israeli dance. She first went to Israel in 1954 as an artistic adviser to Inbal, a company that preserved Yemenite Jewish traditions and tried to present those source materials in a contemporary manner. Partly as a result of her guidance, Inbal was much acclaimed at its American debut in 1958. Miss Sokolow often returned to Israel as teacher and choreographer.
        In New York she taught at both dance and theater schools, among them the Juilliard School, the HB Studio, the American Theater Wing and the Actors Studio.
        Her works entered the repertories of such varied companies as the Joffrey Ballet, the Netherlands Dance Theater, Ballet Rambert, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Oakland Ballet, the Royal Winnipeg Ballet and the Repertory Dance Theater of Utah.
        Not all her dances were somber. ''Magritte, Magritte'' was based upon the Surrealist fantasies of the painter, ''Odes'' was filled with swirling movement patterns and ''Poem'' was lyrical. Nevertheless, ''Poem'' aroused controversy when it was presented in Mexico City in 1956 because an all-male episode  that could be interpreted as a depiction of homosexual love was denounced as pornographic by some theatergoers.
        A tiny woman who dressed austerely, usually in black, Miss Sokolow looked increasingly frail over the years. Yet she continued working, and in 1995 her ''September Sonnet'' was much praised when it received its premiere at the Players' Project. This duet for Jim May and Lorry May, who had often worked with her in the past, was a heartfelt yet never sentimental portrait of middle-aged lovers. Miss Sokolow's honors include the Dance Magazine Award and the Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award.
        Many of those who worked with her remembered her as a fierce disciplinarian. She once explained her pedagogical harshness by telling students: ''I don't dislike you; that's not why I'm hard on you. But I love dance more than I love you.''
        Correction:  April 3, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the choreographer Anna Sokolow on Thursday referred incorrectly to her departure from the 1967 rock musical ''Hair.'' She was dismissed before it opened; she did not withdraw.
      