
        Essie Green Edmiston, an art dealer who represented many 20th-century African-American artists through her Harlem gallery, died on Feb. 26. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was bladder cancer,  said Sylvia Hueston, a friend.
        Mrs. Edmiston began showing art in her Brooklyn apartment in the 1970's while running a full-time psychiatric social work practice. After meeting the painter Romare Bearden, she turned her attention toward art as a career. With a credit union loan she established the Park Plaza Gallery in Park Slope in 1979. This was followed by the Essie Green Galleries in Harlem in 1989.
        There she showed work by Bearden, Lois Mailou Jones and Jacob Lawrence, all of whom she knew as friends. She also showed the work of Allen Stringfellow, Norman Lewis, William S. Carter, William Ossawa Tanner, Charles Ethan Porter, Edwin Bannister and Charles Alston. At the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture she organized a Bearden show in 1991 and a Stringfellow show in 1998.
        Mrs. Edmiston was born in Miami in 1938 and grew up in Springfield,  Mass. She received a master's degree in social work from New York University and was preparing a dissertation in social policy at Columbia University at the time of her death. She continued to practice as a psychiatric social worker until the mid-1980's.
        She was a founding stockholder of  the Innercity Broadcasting Corporation, which is the owner of the radio stations WBLS-FM and WLIB-AM in New York City. She was also on its board. She was also a board member of the Nanette Bearden Contemporary Dance Theater. Since 1973 she  had been a member of the Soka Gakkai, a Buddhist organization.
        She is survived by her husband, Sherman K. Edmiston Jr.; two stepchildren, Sherman K. III and Lisa A.  of New York City; three grandchildren; her mother, Mary L. Green,  and two brothers, Reuben Jr. and Eli Green, all of Springfield, Mass.; and five sisters, Betty Davis of Oakdale, Conn., Katherine Mutcherson of Silver Springs, Md., Iraline G. Barnes of Washington, Phyllis Green of Atlanta, and Lorraine Green of Chicago.
      