
        Hsieh Ping-ying, a Chinese feminist author known for her autobiographical work, died on Jan. 5 in San Francisco. She was 93.
        Miss Hsieh moved to San Francisco in the mid-1970's from Taiwan, to which she had fled from mainland China in 1949.
        Miss Hsieh ''pioneered the literary construction of a soldier image for women -- as imaginative as it may have been -- and thereby influenced this kind of literature in China for decades,'' said Charles A. Laughlin,  professor of modern Chinese literature at Yale University.
        Her first book was ''War Diary,''  published in 1928 in Shanghai. Dr. Laughlin recalled that, in writing the book, Miss Hsieh accompanied soldiers of the Chinese Nationalist army in 1926 and 1927, when it was trying to bring warlords in the eastern half of China under control and while she was a ''girl soldier'' with propaganda training.
        ''At a time when Chinese women were trying to find new modes of identity in the 20th century after having shed the shackles of traditional Chinese feminine identity, there were many different, alternative identities available to them,'' Dr. Laughlin said, ''and I think she was the first to create this very military one.''
        A scholar's daughter, Miss Hsieh was born in a village in Hunan province. Before she was 20, she enrolled in the Wuchang Central Political and Military School. The academy trained young women to be uniformed propagandists attached to the regular military.
        After her relatively brief military service Miss Hsieh returned to her village and an arranged marriage. In 1940 her book ''Girl Rebel: The Autobiography of Hsieh Pingying'' was published in the United States.
        After her marriage ended, Ms. Hsieh was charged with being a Communist and radical and was imprisoned. After her release she studied Chinese literature and worked as a roving writer, editor and teacher. In 1937, when Japan invaded China, she again became a ''girl soldier,'' accompanying Chinese combat troops to the front. Diary entries about her experiences appeared in newspapers and in another book. After World War II she escaped to Taiwan, where she taught and wrote.
        Her second husband, Earl Chia,  died in 1988. The couple became American citizens after moving to San Francisco. She is survived by a daughter, Lily Chia Brissman of Nacogdoches, Tex.; two sons, Luke, of Palos Verdes, Calif., and Wen, of Ambler, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      