
        Sandra Schmirler, the star of the first women's curling team to win an Olympic gold medal and one of Canada's most popular athletes, died Thursday in Regina, Saskatchewan. She was 36.
        She died of cancer, the Canadian Curling Association said.
        Known as Schmirler the Curler, Schmirler starred in a sport that is one of Canada's passions, especially with families in the western provinces. One newspaper called her the public face of a Canadian sport.
        ''When you played her, you were in awe,'' Colleen Jones, a two-time Canadian champion, told The Globe and Mail of Toronto. ''You knew she was better. You knew she was going to beat you. It was like playing against Gretzky.''
        All curlers, men and women, recognized her focus and skill.
        ''She is one of the best players, probably the best player ever,'' said Russ Howard of New Brunswick. ''She raised the level of curling. It's unbelievable what she did.''
        Curlers slide round granite stones down a 146-foot-long, 15-foot-7 1/2-inch-wide sheet of ice into a 12-foot circle known as the house, while two sweepers with straw or synthetic brooms help steer the stone.
        Schmirler, who was born in Biggar, Saskatchewan, on June 11, 1963, was introduced to curling when she was 12. By high school, she had won provincial prep titles in curling while also starring in badminton and volleyball.
        After graduating from the University of Regina, Schmirler was asked to join a local team. Later, she joined forces with Jan Betker, Joan McCusker and Marcia Gudereit, forming a foursome of friends, working mothers and Olympic gold medalists.
        The Caledonian Curling Club, with Schmirler as the skip, or captain, won the provincial title its first season together, 1990-91. The women then won the Canadian and world titles in 1993, 1994 and 1997.
        Schmirler was six months pregnant when she won the world title in 1996 and was on maternity leave from her job with a recreation center when the team went to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.
        ''When you have success and you're having fun, it just snowballs and gets bigger and bigger,'' Schmirler said of the team's success.
        Schmirler's group won the 1998 gold medal by defeating Denmark in Nagano, the first Olympics to make curling an official medal sport. The first athletes from Regina to win an Olympic gold medal became national heroines.
        Carol Anne Letheren, chief executive officer of the Canadian Olympic Association, said Schmirler ''was a Canadian with whom other Canadians could identify.''
        Schmirler's team was voted the Canadian Press team of the year for 1998, and she was inducted into the Canadian Curling Hall of Fame last March.
        Shortly after Schmirler gave birth to her second child last summer, following a difficult pregnancy, doctors discovered a malignant tumor in her chest cavity. During surgery last September to remove blood clots, she nearly died on the operating table.
        Doctors were not able to pinpoint the source of the cancer as she underwent chemotherapy, radiation therapy and other forms of alternative treatment.
        All the while, the country rallied to support her and help pay for her medical expenses.
        ''I didn't think I was that good until I started reading all the cards and letters and faxes and e-mails,'' said Schmirler, who died in her sleep at the Pasqua Hospital's Palliative Care Unit.
        ''All Canadians have been touched by the untimely death of Sandra Schmirler,'' Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada said in a statement. ''Most of us came to know her through her exploits as a champion curler and as an exemplary sports ambassador for Canada. But what really set her apart was her bright, engaging personality and her incredible zest for life.''
        She is survived by her husband, Shannon England; their daughters, Sara and Jenna; her mother, Shirley; and two sisters, Carol and Beverley.
        Flags at all provincial office buildings in Saskatchewan were lowered to half-staff.
      