
        Janet Reed, whose comic gifts and sparkling technique made her one of American dance's most beloved ballerinas in the early years of American Ballet Theater and New York City Ballet, died in Seattle last Monday. She was 83 and lived in Seattle.
        She suffered a stroke one week earlier, said Maren Erskine, her daughter-in-law.
        A petite redhead whose vivacious energy delighted audiences in both story ballets and pure-dance works, Ms. Reed was San Francisco Ballet's leading ballerina from 1937 to 1941 before joining Ballet Theater in 1942 and City Ballet in 1949.
        She was a member of Eugene Loring's experimental chamber company, Dance Players, in 1942. In 1974 she helped found the Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle, remaining for two years as its first artistic director.
        A member of the original cast of Jerome Robbins's first ballet, ''Fancy Free,'' Ms. Reed became associated with a memorable role and the kind of all-American image that audiences identified with her dancing. When Robbins created ''Fancy Free'' for Ballet Theater in 1944 he cast her as the young woman who dances a romantic duet with a sailor in a bar during World War II and then wipes her lipstick off his face.
        By then Ms. Reed had also performed the ballerina roles in the 19th-century classics in San Francisco. These included Willam Christensen's 1940 staging of ''Swan Lake,'' the ballet's first full-length American production. As Lincoln Kirstein noted in his book ''Movement and Metaphor,'' Ms. Reed was an excellent comedian but also a classical dancer.
        Kirstein and George Balanchine founded City Ballet in 1948 and Balanchine invited Ms. Reed into the company a few months later. He quickly cast her in his signature Neo-Classical ballets, including ''Symphony in C'' and ''Serenade.''
        In 1949 he choreographed ''Bourree Fantasque,'' whose final exuberant section exploited the vitality and virtuosity that made up Ms. Reed's trademark style.
        In the 1940's and 50's City Ballet was a very different company than it is today. Balanchine continued to develop a plotless Neo-Classical genre, but the repertory was eclectic, drawing upon a variety of choreographers. Robbins, like Ms. Reed, had transferred from Ballet Theater and become associate artistic director in 1949. Ms. Reed had danced in the 1945 premiere of ''Interplay,'' Robbins's enduring mix of bravura and blues, and he continued to use her.
        Comic ballets, even by Balanchine, were not a rarity at City Ballet and in this realm Ms. Reed was queen. In Balanchine's ''A la Francaix,'' Ms. Reed was a belle who lost her swain, Andre Eglevsky, to a sylph, Maria Tallchief. In ''The Pied Piper,'' by Robbins, Ms. Reed led a jiving pack after a clarinetist onstage. She was the droopy Hortense, queen of the Waterlilies in Ruthanna Boris's ''Cakewalk,'' a comic gloss on minstrel shows.
        In City Ballet's 1953 revival of Lew Christensen's ''Filling Station,'' a bit of 1938 Americana, Ms. Reed danced opposite the young Jacques d'Amboise as a gas station attendant. She was in her element as a tipsy debutante. When Balanchine created ''Western Symphony'' Ms. Reed made his satire of a classical adagio a lesson in strong technique and projection.
        John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, devoted an article to Ms. Reed in 1954: ''Janet Reed is adorable, all right, and that unquestionably brings a great many customers to the box office; but she is also an artist of very high attainments, and a performer among performers.''
        Ms. Reed was born in Tolo, Ore., and studied ballet with Willam Christensen in Portland, Ore., and San Francisco.
        Although repeatedly praised for her comic timing and engaging characterization, Ms. Reed had an extensive dramatic range that she displayed in Antony Tudor's psychological ballets and Michael Kidd's ''On Stage!'' at Ballet Theater.
        After marrying Branson Erskine, an interior designer, she appeared in the Robbins musical ''Look Ma, I'm Dancing'' in 1947. She is survived by a son, Reed Erskine of New York, and a daughter, Jane Erskine of Seattle.
        Ms. Reed returned to Ballet Theater briefly before joining City Ballet, where she danced until 1958 and then was its ballet mistress until 1961. She taught in several colleges before moving to Seattle, where she also staged dances for the Seattle Opera. In 1983 she and Gene Kelly were the hosts of a gala celebrating the San Francisco Ballet's 50th anniversary.
      