
        Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, an author whose ability to recreate the sensibilities of a child informed many well-loved books she wrote for young readers, died on March 1 at her home in Washington. She was 86.
        Beni Montresor illustrated Mrs. de Regniers's ''May I Bring a Friend?'' (1972) and won the Caldecott Medal for the pictures that accompany the story of a boy who politely asks a king and queen for permission before bringing his animal friends along when he is asked to visit. Mrs. de Regniers's other books included ''A Little House of Your Own'' (1954), illustrated by Irene Haas, and ''Little Sister and the Month Brothers'' (1975), illustrated by Margot Tomes.
        ''What Can You Do With a Shoe?,'' an engaging conversation between two children, was illustrated by Maurice Sendak in 1955 using two colors. It was republished in 1997 with full-color illustrations by Mr. Sendak.
        Mrs. de Regniers was born in Lafayette, Ind., and raised in nearby Crawfordsville, a place where, she wrote, a child could ''gather violets, live in a tree, walk in the woods -- be.'' She earned degrees from the University of Chicago and the Winnetka Graduate Teachers College.
        She was a social worker and a dancer and during World War II a welfare officer with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. For 11 years she was director of educational materials for the American Heart Association before becoming the founding editor of Scholastic's Lucky Book Club in 1961. She retired from that position in 1981.
        In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.''
        Under the pseudonym Tamara Kitt (Tammy and Mara were her cats' names), Mrs. de Regniers also wrote a series of mass-market paperbacks, including ''Jake'' and ''Sam and the Impossible Thing.''
        She was married to Francis de Regniers, who worked as a manager  for Air France, and they lived in New York until his death in 1992. She later moved to Washington to be near her sister, Lillian Goldman of Washington, who survives her.
        When schoolchildren asked if she had children of her own, Mrs. de Regniers explained that she had vivid memories of her childhood. ''I remember 'way back,'' she would say, ''even before I was 2 years old,'' adding that ''almost everything I write relates in some way to these early years. What was important to me then is important to me now.
        ''That is why, even though I have no children of my own, I think it is O.K. for me to write books that children will read or have read to them.''
      