
        Gertrude Sanford Legendre, an unlikely debutante of the 1920's who forsook society to become a big-game hunter and then to work during World War II for the Office of Strategic Services, predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency, died on Wednesday at Medway, her historic lantation near Charleston, S.C. She was 97 and also had a home on Fishers Island, off Long Island.
        Gertrude Sanford was in her teens when she took a hunting trip to the Grand Tetons of Wyoming and shot her first elk. For years, she pursued big game in Africa, India, Iran and Indochina, and contributed rare specimens to museums.
        In her later years, she established the Medway Environmental Trust for educational purposes and to ensure that Medway would forever be managed as a nature preserve.
        Mrs. Legendre began her wartime career as a secretary with the O.S.S. in Washington. In 1944, the agency transferred her to Paris and gave her a WAC uniform and paperwork identifying her as a second lieutenant.
        She became the first American woman captured in France when, on a visit to the front northeast of Paris, she found herself pinned down by German sniper fire. Held as a prisoner of war for six months, she escaped and went by train to Switzerland. The train stopped short of the border; as she dashed to the frontier, a German guard ordered her to halt or be shot. She continued, and reached the border.
        After the war, Mrs. Legendre helped a German prison guard who had been kind to her emigrate to the United States. She established the Medway Plan to provide medical help to countries devastated by the war.
        Mrs. Legendre was born in 1902 in Aiken, S.C., the youngest of three children of John and Ethel Sanford. She, her brother, Stephen Sanford, an internationally recognized polo player known as Laddie, and her sister, Sara Jane Sanford, were said to have been the inspiration for Philip Barry's 1929 play ''Holiday,'' made into a classic movie starring Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant. She wrote two autobiographies, ''The Sands Ceased to Run'' (1947) and ''The Time of My Life'' (1987).
        Mrs. Legendre was reared in Amsterdam, N.Y., and in a Manhattan town house on East 72nd Street now occupied by the Lycee Francais. She was educated at the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va., and made her debut after her graduation in 1920.  She and Sidney J. Legendre married in 1929. He died in 1948.
        Mrs. Legendre is survived by two daughters, Bokara Legendre of Manhattan and Mill Valley, Calif., and Landine Manigault of Stonington, Conn.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Known as one of the grand dames of Charleston, Mrs. Legendre gave a New Year's Eve costume party that was a tradition for half a century. At one of the last of those parties, she offered a toast: ''I look ahead. I always have. I don't contemplate life, I live it. And I'm having the time of my life.''
      