
        Gisele Freund, the German-born photographer who was best known for her portraits of France's literary elite and was a founding member of Magnum Photo Agency, died today in Paris. She was 91.
        Ms. Freund was one of Europe's most prominent photographers and a pillar among French feminist intellectuals after fleeing Nazi Germany and settling in Paris in the 1930's.
        In the course of her long career, she went on about 80 photographic assignments around the world, mainly for Time and Life. But she is most noted for being in a lot of places with a lot of famous people.
        She captured a windblown Andre Malraux on a Paris rooftop, Boris Pasternak, Aldous Huxley and Andre Gide at a congress for the defense of culture; Walter  Benjamin sitting on a bench in the Bibliotheque Nationale; Vladimir Nabokov, Michel Leiris, Henri Michaux and Jean Paulhan in the editorial offices of the magazine Mesures and James Joyce playing the piano for his son, Giorgio.
        She specialized in conveying the attitude of her subjects. She focused on hands, body posture and clothing. Reviewing an exhibition of her life's work in 1979, Hilton Kramer wrote in The New York Times that she excelled in ''brilliant documentation rather than originality.''
        In a 1996 interview, Ms. Freund said she read her subjects' work and often spent hours discussing their books with them before taking a portrait.
        ''This was essential to gaining their confidence,'' she said of Sartre, de Beauvoir, Malraux and Breton. ''I tell many young photographers to do the same thing, but so often they don't want to read about their subjects, they just want to take pictures. For me, at least, studying my subjects first and knowing them personally was essential to taking a good picture.''
        Born in Berlin in 1908 to wealthy Jewish parents who collected art, Ms. Freund was given her first camera at the age of 12. As a university student studying sociology in Frankfurt, she became a political activist protesting the rise of Hitler's National Socialism. In 1933 she fled Germany, escaping just as the police were about to arrest her.
        She arrived in Paris carrying only a small suitcase, a camera and some film recording the early stages of Nazi violence. She pursued her doctoral studies at the Sorbonne, where her thesis on photography in France in the 19th century met with some skepticism because photography was not considered a serious study.
        She used her camera to make a living. But what began as economic necessity rapidly developed into a serious vocation. Although still living the life of a refugee who had become stateless, by 1936 she had scored a double triumph.
        Her dissertation was published as a book by Adrienne Monnier, the Paris bookseller who stood at the center of French literary life in the period between the two world wars. And the first of her picture stories was published by the new Life magazine.
        Ms. Monnier, whom Ms. Freund met while browsing in her Left Bank bookshop,  became her lifelong mentor and companion, introducing her to the Parisian intellectual set and encouraging her to pursue photography.
        Her use of color clashed with the prevailing style of retouched black-and-white studio portraits, but she persevered, saying that color was ''closer to life.''
        The Nazi invasion of France in 1940 interrupted her career and she fled again,  first to southern France and then to Argentina, where she worked until the war's end.  In later years Ms. Freund became well known in her adopted France, winning the National Grand Prize for Photography in 1980. She took the official photograph of  Francois Mitterrand, a Socialist, at his presidential inauguration in 1981.
        But she gave up photography in the mid-1980's, saying she wanted to spend her  time reading. Her modest Paris apartment did not have a single photograph on the walls, but there were piles of books.
        In a statement, President Jacques Chirac praised her today as ''one of the world's greatest photographers.''
        ''She was able, better than anyone, to reveal the essence of beings through their expressions,'' he said.
        Prime Minister Lionel Jospin hailed Ms. Freund as an ''unparalleled sociologist and reporter who traveled the world with a generous and lucid approach to places and events faraway.''
        Her agent, Nina Beskow, said that Ms. Freund had been briefly married ''for paper reasons.'' There were no immediate survivors.
        Ms. Freund's portrait of Malraux on the rooftop -- wrapped in a trench coat with a cigarette dangling from his mouth -- is among her most best-known photographs. But when the portrait was adapted for a French postage stamp, the cigarette was famously airbrushed out, in a nod to the times.
      