
        Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment. According to music reference sources she was 68.
        She died of natural causes, said Ellen Borakove, spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner.
        Ms. Dlugoszewski was a prominent contemporary composer in her own right but also created scores for many signature works by Hawkins, to whom she was married. She assumed direction of his modern-dance company in 1996, two years after his death.
        She made her formal debut as a choreographer last year in a program presented by the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Project, which is sponsoring a program of her choreography performed by the Hawkins company at the 91st Street Playhouse in Manhattan through Sunday afternoon. ''The company will live on, and Erick and Lucy will live on with us,'' Louis Kavouras, a dancer, rehearsal director and company archivist, said yesterday.
        Ms. Dlugoszewski was celebrated in New York dance for her unparalleled gift for inspiring intense affection, admiration and exasperation all at once as she exuberantly buttonholed countless company directors, choreographers, dancers and writers to involve them in her own and Hawkins's projects. Beneath that hectic, usually disheveled exterior, however, was a poetic, gutsy composer known for her experimentation with timbre or tonal quality and color, her invention of percussion instruments and the freshness of her musical structures, in works made for the timbre piano and traditional orchestra instruments. She created, Virgil Thomson once said, ''far-out music of great delicacy, originality and beauty of sound.''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Dlugoszewski studied physics at Wayne State University before moving in the late 1940's to New York City, where she studied piano with Grete Sultan, music analysis with Felix Salzer and composition with Varese. Around 1951 she developed the timbre piano, a conventional piano whose strings are struck with beaters and played with a variety of bows and plectra, or pieces of wood, metal and ivory. She later created percussion and friction instruments, constructed by the sculptor Ralph Dorazio, for musicians performing for Hawkins.
        Soon after her arrival in New York, she was taken up by painters and poets in the New York School, among them Robert Motherwell, John Ashbery and Ad Reinhardt. Her first concert in New York, in 1957, was sponsored by the artists David Smith and Herman Cherry. Her first reviewer was Frank O'Hara. Recognition from musicians came with the orchestral works she composed in the 1970's.
        Her music has been performed by the New York Philharmonic, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the Louisville Orchestra, the Seattle Symphony and the American Composers Orchestra.
        Ms. Dlugoszewski was the first woman to win the Koussevitzky International Recording Award, in 1977, and has also been honored by the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
        No immediate family members survive.
      