
        Sasha Von Scherler, an actress and comedian who appeared in more than 100 productions in New York City, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung disease, said her daughter, Ruth Mayer.
        Miss Von Scherler followed her mother, an actress trained by the playwright and producer David Belasco, into a life in the theater. Her father, a Prussian baron named Walram-Voystingus Albert Alexander Von Schoeler, did not approve.
        In a 1980 interview in The New York Times, Miss Von Scherler said her early life was marked by some radical peregrinations, from a convent school in Windsor, Ontario, to Tokyo, where she first set foot on stage in an amateur production.
        After attending the Yale School of Drama -- she was expelled for staging a personal sit-in to show her opposition to building stage scenery -- Miss Von Scherler made her professional debut at the Cherry Lane Theater in 1956, in George Bernard Shaw's ''Admirable Bashville.'' It was the first in a nearly unbroken string of plays over the next 20 years.
        Among her roles were Mrs. Brown in Eugene O'Neill's ''Great God Brown'' in 1959, Olivia in Joseph Papp's 1969 production of ''Twelfth Night'' in Central Park, and Avonia Bunn in three separate productions of ''Trelawney of the Wells.'' She helped support her acting habit by appearing in several soap operas.
        More often than not Miss Von Scherler, a woman with large, twinkling eyes and a merry laugh, played supporting roles, often stealing scenes. In a 1971 review of ''Trelawney,'' Walter Kerr of The Times wrote that ''Miss Von Scherler was rather like a fine painting propped in one corner; the rest of the room might be filled with attractive objects and engaging people, but your eye kept wandering back to her.''
        In the mid-1980's Miss Von Scherler earned a master's degree in social work and became a therapist and counselor; she worked for more than 10 years at an AIDS treatment center in Greenwich Village.
        In 1995 she appeared in ''Party Girl,'' a film written and directed by her daughter, Daisy Von Scherler Mayer.
        In addition to Daisy and Ruth Mayer, both of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Paul Avila Mayer, and another daughter, Rachael, of Glen Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      