
        Dorothy Hart, the editor of two highly praised books of song lyrics by her brother-in-law, Lorenz Hart, of Rodgers and Hart fame, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Ontario, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        Mrs. Hart was the widow of Lorenz Hart's brother, Theodore, a comedian. She and Robert Kimball edited ''The Complete Lyrics of Lorenz Hart'' (Knopf, 1986), containing some 670 of the songs Lorenz Hart wrote before his death in 1943.
        The book was lauded in a review by the cabaret singer Bobby Short in The New York Times Book Review. He said Mrs. Hart ''took on the herculean task of compiling Larry Hart's historic works a decade ago'' for her other book, ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty,'' which Mr. Short said was ''an admirable effort on its own, but, as it turns out, it was merely the tip of the iceberg.''
        Mr. Short wrote that Mrs. Hart and Mr. Kimball, an expert on the musical theater, ''left no stone unturned in their search for every lyric ascribed to Hart,'' and ''what has been achieved here is something monumental.''
        Mrs. Hart edited ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty'' (Da Capo, 1976) and wrote a memoir included in the book. One critic said that work was ''indispensable for anyone interested in Hart, which is to say anyone interested in Broadway musical comedy, and Mrs. Hart's words are honest, unpretentious and affecting.''
        Her son, also named Lorenz, said Friday that ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty'' had played a critical role in the growth of the popularity of Rodgers and Hart songs that he said had taken place since then. The best-known Rodgers and Hart songs include ''The Lady Is a Tramp,'' ''Manhattan'' and ''Blue Moon.''
        Mrs. Hart, the former Dorothy Lubow, was born in Brooklyn. She left school at 16 and became a dancer for a time. Then she spent years as a writer and columnist for show-business fan magazines. She married her husband in 1938. He died in 1971.
        Besides her son, of Arlington, Va., she is survived by a granddaughter.
      