
        Jean E. Karl, who established the publishing imprint Atheneum Books for Young Readers in 1961 and led it until she retired in 1985, died on Thursday at a hospice in Lancaster, Pa. She was 72.
        Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including nonfiction, fiction and science-fiction novels, mostly for children, under her own name, and other science fiction as R. W. Munson (her grandmother's name).
        She left no immediate survivors.
        The author E. L. Konigsburg has described Ms. Karl as her ''forever editor.'' As a young woman Ms. Konigsburg submitted two manuscripts to Ms. Karl, who published both in 1967. ''The Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler'' won the Newbery Medal the next year, while ''Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley, and Me, Elizabeth'' was named a Newbery Honor book. Thirty years and 15 books later, ''The View From Saturday'' also won a Newbery Medal for Ms. Konigsburg.
        Ms. Karl oversaw or edited Newbery Medal books by Robert C. O'Brien, Phyllis Reynolds Naylor, Cynthia Voigt and Maia Wojciechowska.
        She edited two Caldecott Medal books, ''May I Bring a Friend?,'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, illustrated by Beni Montresor, and ''A Story, a Story,'' by Gail E. Haley, as well as Ursula K. LeGuin's ''Farthest Shore,'' which won a National Book Award. Ms. Karl's books also won eight Edgar Awards. She was also the founder of Aladdin Paperbacks.
        Ms. Karl was born and brought up in Chicago. She graduated from Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio.
        She began working in the editorial department of Scott, Foresman in Chicago. In 1956 she moved to New York to be editor of children's books at Abingdon Press, the publishing house of the Methodist Church, and remained there until she was recruited by Alfred Knopf Jr. to start the children's department at Atheneum. Atheneum is now a children's imprint at Simon & Schuster.
        The story goes that when an Atheneum executive called her the ''juvenile editor,'' she addressed him as  ''senile editor,'' adding sharply that ''good children's books are never juvenile.''
      