
        Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived at the center, which is at 345 43rd Street in Sunset Park.
        The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Howse, a friend who headed the center's advisory board for the last 10 years.
        Sister Mary Geraldine, who was a Sister of the Good Shepherd, and Sister Mary Paul Janchill were the co-founders of the center in 1978.
        It provides comprehensive neighborhood services to children, young people and families in Sunset Park, a generally poor, largely immigrant neighborhood. Most of the people who live there are Hispanic, and part of the neighborhood has been mostly peopled by Chinese immigrants over the last seven or eight years.
        In an interview in 1993, Sister Mary Geraldine said, ''We are more like the old settlement house than we are anything else.''
        By that time the center's services, besides family counseling, had come to include child care, a food bank, job placement, a sports league, centers for teenagers, even a thrift shop.
        ''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
        Bishop Joseph M. Sullivan, auxiliary Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn for human services, said Sister Mary Geraldine ''was a woman of extraordinary energy and very upbeat mentality and believed in hands-on dealing with community problems and issues.''
        He added: ''''She believed most of the solutions should be fashioned within the communities where the kids lived. There was never a day that I recall, in observing her, where she was down. She always thought there was a solution to every problem, there was a way of dealing with reality that could really turn the thing around.''
        From the time of the center's founding until Sister Mary Geraldine's death, she and Sister Mary Paul were its co-directors, with equal authority in administering it.
        Sister Mary Geraldine was the center's project director, in charge of its afterschool and evening programs for children, in two elementary schools and a middle school in Sunset Park.
        Sister Mary Geraldine also supervised many of the center's other operations and its administrative and maintenance staffs.
        For her part, Sister Mary Paul has been the center's clinical director, overseeing clinical social workers in their work within the neighborhood.
        Despite Sister Mary Geraldine's death, the center's various operations are to be continued as they have been for 22 years. Its financing comes from government sources and from private charitable organizations like the Robin Hood Foundation.
        The honors she received include an Ecumenical Woman of the Year award in 1978 from the Brooklyn Division of the Council of Churches of the City of New York and a Robin Hood Foundation Heroes Award in 1991.
        Sister Mary Geraldine was born and raised in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1967 from Fordham, a master's degree in 1976 from the family and community relations department of Teachers College at Columbia, and a master's degree in 1985 from Columbia's School of Social Work.
        Surviving are her mother, Bridget Cappozzi Tobia of Newark, and numerous cousins.
      