
        Carmen Dillon, the first female art director in British film, whose set design for Laurence Olivier's ''Hamlet'' brought her an Academy Award in 1948, died on April 12, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. She was 91.
        Ms. Dillon regarded her role as interpretive rather than creative. ''It is no good trying to impose my own idea of taste on the set,'' she said of the job that required her to translate a director's two-dimensional concept into three-dimensional reality.
        By working closely with the writer, cameraman and costume designer, Ms. Dillon would draft 30 or 40 sketches to determine the movie's final set. In addition to overseeing a construction and props budget, she ensured that period details were correct, right down to the drab, cheap curtains she had specially printed for ''The Prince and the Showgirl,'' starring Olivier and Marilyn Monroe, and the tankards she thought appropriate for a wine shop during the Terror in ''A Tale of Two Cities.''
        Though influenced by the Continental designers of the time, she preferred to work on films with a decidedly British feel. None proved a better fit than Olivier's adaptations of Shakespeare, and the partnership between Olivier and Ms. Dillon flourished. They worked on several Shakespeare stage productions, as well as on Olivier's 1954 film of ''Richard III.''
        Ms. Dillon was educated at Newhall Convent in Essex. At 16 she won a scholarship to the Architectural Association, but was too young to accept it and instead attended North London Collegiate School for a year.
        After spending the next six years training as an architect, she worked briefly in Dublin and London before turning her talents, through a friend's offer, to the burgeoning movie-studio system in England, where she earned a place in the art department at Fox Studios.
        In 1938 she moved to the new Pinewood Studios, where she assisted Paul Sheriff in designing the sets and 750 costumes for ''The Mikado,'' the first film to be shot there in Technicolor. She later worked with Frank Wells on Anthony Asquith's ''French Without Tears'' (1939).
        Among the first films for which she was sole art director was Asquith's 1943 work, ''The Demi-Paradise,'' in which Olivier played a Russian engineer observing life in England. The next year she returned to Sheriff's studio to help design ''Henry V'' for Olivier.
        In the years after World War II, Ms. Dillon designed such films as Asquith's ''Way to the Stars'' (1945), ''The Browning Version'' (1951) and ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' (1952), Betty E. Box's ''Doctor in the House'' (1954), Joseph Losey's ''Accident'' (1967) and the 1976 horror film ''The Omen.''
        Among the art directors she trained were John Box, Terence Marsh and Roy Walker, all of whom won Academy Awards.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      