
        Evelyn Graham Irons, a war correspondent who had a romance with the Bloomsbury novelist and poet Vita Sackville-West, died April 3 at her home in Brewster, N.Y. She was two months short of her 100th birthday.
        Ms. Irons was a 30-year-old editor of the women's page of The Daily Mail in London when she met Sackville-West in 1931. She had gone to interview the 38-year-old writer at her home, Sissinghurst Castle, renowned for its famous gardens, which Sackville-West spent much of her life designing and tending.
        The romance was tangled. Sackville-West had already begun her enduring relationship with Violet Trefusis, the daughter of Alice Keppel, Edward VII's mistress. And Ms. Irons was romantically involved at the time with Olive Rinder, who soon also fell in love with Sackville-West.
        Victoria Glendenning wrote in her 1983 biography, ''Vita: The Life of Vita Sackville-West,'' that by January 1932, the three women were in a menage a trois that ended later that year when Ms. Irons met and fell in love with another woman, Joy McSweeney. Ms. McSweeney remained her companion until she died in the 1980's.
        The love poems dated 1931 in Vita Sackville-West's ''Collected Poems'' are addressed to Ms. Irons, although Ms. Glendenning notes that ''the more erotic ones'' were never published. Ms. Irons and Sackville-West remained close friends and corresponded warmly until Sackville-West's death in 1962.
        Evelyn Irons was born in Glasgow on June 17, 1900. After graduating from Somerville College, Oxford, she began working as a journalist for The Daily Mail, then The Evening Standard. At the outbreak of World War II, The Standard made her a war correspondent. Suspecting that British commanders would not welcome a woman at their headquarters, she accredited herself to the First French Army and crossed the Rhine with Charles de Gaulle and accompanied French troops through Germany and Austria.
        She is believed to be the first female war correspondent to reach Hitler's retreat at Berchtesgaden and was the first to win the Croix de Guerre.
        Ms. Irons moved to New York in 1952. In 1954, she rode into Guatemala on a mule during a revolution there, getting to the action and filing her dispatches well ahead of her colleagues. She became the New York bureau chief for The Sunday Times of London at the end of the 1950's.
        No immediate family members survive her.
      