
        Helen Martin, a character actress whose career embraced the Broadway stage as well as films and television, died on March 25 at her home in Monterey, Calif. She was 90.
        A founding member of the American Negro Theater in Harlem, Ms. Martin was among the first African-American actresses to take the Broadway stage, making her debut as the sister of Canada Lee in Orson Welles's 1941 production of ''Native Son.''
        She went on to appear in Elia Kazan's staging of ''Deep Are the Roots''; ''The Long Dream,'' directed by Lloyd Richards; ''The Amen Corner,'' written by James Baldwin;  and alongside her American Negro Theater colleagues Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis in Mr. Davis's play ''Purlie Victorious.''
        She also appeared off Broadway as an African queen in ''The Blacks,'' Jean Genet's historical drama.
        As a teenager in Nashville, Ms. Martin performed with local theater groups and led a 12-musician band. She attended Fisk University for two years before moving to Chicago and later New York, where she apprenticed with the W.P.A. Theater and the Rose McClendon Players.
        Beginning in the early 1970's Ms. Martin portrayed a variety of offbeat characters in television series about black families, beginning with ''That's My Mama,'' starring Clifton Davis, and including ''Benson,'' ''Good Times'' and ''Full House.'' She is perhaps best remembered as Pearl Shay, the loud next-door neighbor in the show ''227.''
        She also appeared in several television specials, including ''Roots,'' in which she portrayed the village elder, a role she called her favorite.
        Ms. Martin's film credits include ''Cotton Comes to Harlem,'' ''Repo Man,'' ''A Rage in Harlem,'' ''Doc Hollywood,'' ''House Party 2,'' ''Beverly Hills Cop III,'' ''Kiss the Girls'' and the Warren Beatty film ''Bulworth,'' in which she played the character known as Momma Doll.
        Ms. Martin was nominated for a N.A.A.C.P. Image Award for her role as the hero's grandmother in the 1987 film ''Hollywood Shuffle'' and in 1992 was inducted into the Black Filmmakers Hall of Fame in Oakland, Calif.
        She had recently completed the filming of ''Something to Sing About,'' to be released this spring.
      