
        Dina Abramowicz, the longtime librarian at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research whose firsthand and encyclopedic knowledge of the lost Yiddish world of Eastern Europe made her a treasured resource for hundreds of scholars and writers for more than half a century, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
        She was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        Ms. Abramowicz had a formidable memory, and not only for those who peopled her cherished birthplace, Vilna, Lithuania, the great center of Yiddish culture now known as Vilnius, where the YIVO collection originated.
        Her mind was a mental card catalog for hundreds of rare and obscure books and historical materials in the dusty YIVO stacks. And she hunted them down for scholars like Irving Howe and novelists like Leon Uris as well as for thousands of ordinary people trying to research their family histories.
        When George F. Kennan, the diplomat and historian, was looking for material one day on a 19th century convert to Christianity, she led him not only to the entry in the library's precious Russian-Jewish encyclopedia but also to a scarce book in Yiddish about Jewish apostates.
        ''This is the sort of book that Dina knew off the top of her head,'' said Zachary Baker, who succeeded Ms. Abramowicz as YIVO's head librarian and now is curator of Judaica at Stanford University's library.
        Her friend Esther Hautzig, a Manhattan book editor and writer who grew up in Vilna, said of her, ''No computer on earth can store the information she had in her brain because she lived through it.'' She remembers Ms. Abramowicz as the librarian who provided her with her first library card.
        Almost daily, Ms. Abramowicz received inquiries from journalists and writers who liked to season their prose with a word or two of Yiddish. They relied on Ms. Abramowicz as their authority for the transliterated spelling of words like bobe (grandmother) and yichus (pedigree).
        Though less than five feet tall and dainty in an Old World way, Ms. Abramowicz could be flintlike in her insistence upon historical and linguistic accuracy. When a letter to The New York Times stated that the word ''Holocaust'' was first used in the Dec. 24, 1942, daily bulletin of the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, she made sure to write a corrective letter. The agency's bulletin, she pointed out, used a term translatable as atrocities, not Holocaust, and the probable first use of Holocaust to refer to the mass slaughter of Jews was from the May 14, 1943, Polish daily Nowy Dzien, which used the Polish word for holocaust, calopalenie, to describe the liquidation of the Warsaw Ghetto.
        Her life, sorrowful as parts of it were, had a striking symmetry, from Vilna to the New York home of the archives rescued from Vilna.
        Vilna was fiercely loved by its Jewish inhabitants as the ''Jerusalem of Lithuania,'' a city of writers like Chaim Grade and Abraham Sutzkever. Ms. Abramowicz was the librarian first of Vilna's Jewish children's library and then, after the Nazis herded Jews into ghettos, of the ghetto library. When she came to New York in 1946, she soon went to work for the transplanted version of one of Vilna's most important institutions, the YIVO library, many of whose thousands of books and artifacts had been smuggled out by a ragtag band of slave laborers and partisans known as the paper brigade.
        She was YIVO's head librarian for 25 years, until 1987; then in her late 70's, she was eased off to work as research librarian, a position she held until her death.
        The daughter of teachers, Ms. Abramowicz was born in 1909, when Vilna was part of the czar's empire; it was to live under Polish, Lithuanian, German and Soviet Russian governments before she left. She grew up speaking Russian, but when the Germans occupied Vilna during World War I, they allowed Jews to start their own schools, as part of a divide-and-conquer strategy, and Dina's parents sent her to Yiddish-language elementary and high schools.
        After studying Polish literature in university, she went to work for her first library, the Kinderbibliotek. She also became a member of YIVO, the  acronym for the Yiddish name of the Yiddish Scientific Institute, an organization founded in 1925. It soon became a repository of manuscripts of Sholem Aleichem and Biaklik, records of Jewish communal governments and other historical documents as well as thousands of books.
        When the Germans invaded in World War II and crammed Vilna's 56,000 Jews into neighborhood ghettos, Herman Kruk, a librarian, tried to maintain an oasis of normality in the madness by setting up a library, and he asked Ms. Abramowicz to staff it.
        ''How can we think of a library under these conditions, and who will come to read books there?'' she remembered asking a fellow librarian.
        ''Since there was nothing one could do about this absurd situation, what was the use of talking and wondering?'' was the answer she remembered getting.
        In its first year, the library circulated 100,000 books to its starving, brutalized readers, mostly, it turned out, escapist fiction.
        In September 1943, the ghetto was liquidated. Ms. Abramowicz's mother was dispatched to Treblinka, where she was killed; Ms. Abramowicz to a labor camp. By a stroke of fortune, the door on the cattle train opened on the Vilna platform and she simply walked off. She wound up in a less rigorous camp, one for workers who processed fur for the German army's winter coats. She escaped into the woods and joined Jewish resistance fighters as a nurse's helper.
        After the war, she found her father in New York, where he had traveled just before the war broke out in September 1939. She soon met Max Weinreich, a surviving YIVO founder, and joined him in reconstituting the YIVO collection in New York.
        Beyond helping scholars who visited the Vanderbilt mansion that for years housed YIVO and its new home on West 16th Street, Ms. Abramowicz seemed to take on the search for roots as a personal compulsion.
        ''At certain periods of your life, you start to want to find out what happened to your parents,'' she said once. ''I think it is the survival instinct of a people trying to find out who they are.''
        Other than two nephews and a niece, Ms. Abramowicz left no survivors. But her name endures in dozens of acknowledgments by the authors whose research she shepherded. In his tribute in ''The World of Our Fathers,'' the classic work about the immigrant Jews of New York,  Mr. Howe thanked YIVO for making the book possible, ''especially its indefatigable and splendid librarian, Dina Abramowicz.''
      