
        Claire Trevor, an Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists -- reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops -- died Saturday at a hospital near her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 91 and had suffered from respiratory ailments in recent months, said Richard Elbaum, a spokesman for the family.
        A Brooklyn native who became enamored of stage acting and found her way into the movies during Hollywood's golden age, Miss Trevor appeared in nearly 70 films, working under legendary directors like John Huston and John Ford and playing alongside such famous leading men as John Wayne and Humphrey Bogart.
        She played the former girlfriend of a gangster (Humphrey Bogart) who becomes a burned-out streetwalker in ''Dead End'' (1937) and a freewheeling woman forced out of town by bluenoses in the classic version of ''Stagecoach'' (1939). She was the alcoholic mistress of a mobster played by Edward G. Robinson in ''Key Largo'' (1948) and a spunky jet passenger in ''The High and the Mighty'' (1954).
        She may be best remembered for ''Key Largo,'' for which she won the Oscar for best supporting actress playing the part of Gaye Dawn, a has-been cabaret singer who, in one emotionally charged scene, is forced by her sadistic lover to sing ''Moanin' Low'' in return for a drink. Feebly, she manages to sob through the song, but Mr. Robinson's character denies her because, he says, her singing was ''rotten.''
        Miss Trevor also received Academy Award nominations for ''The High and the Mighty'' and ''Dead End.''
        The blond, smoky-voiced Miss Trevor was a dedicated performer who repeatedly breathed fresh life into her films, many of which sorely needed her grace and gumption. Early on she became a ''queen of the B's,'' the low-budget action movies that rounded off double bills. But she got plenty of ''A'' roles, making the most of them.
        In other key roles, she was a faithless lover in ''The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse'' (1938), a conspiratorial killer in ''Murder, My Sweet'' (1945), a vitriolic Broadway actress in ''The Velvet Touch'' (1948), an overprotective mother in ''Marjorie Morningstar'' (1958) and a scornful shrew in two melodramas, ''Two Weeks in Another Town'' (1962) and ''How to Murder Your Wife'' (1965).
        The modest Miss Trevor was one of the few actresses whose seemingly effortless talent made most viewers take her for granted, while film buffs cherished her. Looking back, she concluded that she never became a top star because she lacked the drive that energizes them. ''I didn't know,'' she said, ''that to make a real career in Hollywood you have to become a 'personality,' have to cultivate publicity departments and become known as 'The Ear' or even 'The Toe.' ''
        On television, she won an Emmy award in an acclaimed 1956 revival of ''Dodsworth,'' with Fredric March in the title role. She artfully portrayed his vain wife, who consorts with shallow lovers in a futile battle against age. Miss Trevor said she enjoyed working for television because it provided her with a wider, more sympathetic range of roles. But she said she never wanted to sacrifice personal happiness for her career. ''As for a TV series, never,'' she said, ''Life's too short and, frankly, I'm not terribly ambitious.''
        Claire Trevor was born Claire Wemlinger on March 8, 1909, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the only child of Noel and Betty Wemlinger. (Mr. Elbaum said Miss Trevor's stepson, Donald Bren, said she was born in 1910; many reference works list her birth in 1909.) Her father was a Fifth Avenue merchant tailor who soon moved the family to Larchmont in Westchester County. After her graduation from high school, Miss Trevor took art courses for six months at Columbia University before studying for six more months at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. She began honing her craft in repertory theater in Michigan, St. Louis and Long Island and through shorts filmed in Brooklyn.
        These appearances led to starring roles in two Broadway plays, ''Whistling in the Dark,'' a hit, and ''The Party's Over,'' a flop. The Fox movie company had noticed her, however, and offered a five-year contract. Although she wanted to stay in the theater, she had no immediate stage prospects and accepted Fox's offer, arriving in Hollywood in 1933.
        She then made 14 Fox quickies over four years. Most were action-adventure pictures dominated by the leading men, but she won wide praise for playing several hard-bitten newspaper reporters. ''I worked like a demon, and I knew it was a job,'' she said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1995. ''Saturday night, you never could plan on going out to dinner because we'd break for dinner for one hour and work till 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 in the morning.''
        Spencer Tracy was the early co-star she admired most, and she said she quickly began imitating ''the clever way he throws away a line.'' Another favorite leading man was Mr. Robinson, with whom she appeared in ''Big Town,'' a popular radio series, from 1937 to 1940. He played Steve Wilson, editor of the mythical Illustrated Press, and she was Lorelei Kilbourne, his ace reporter and foil.
        Her longtime wish to return to Broadway materialized in 1947, when she and Philip Dorn co-starred in a comedy, ''The Big Two.'' The consensus of critics was that they gave the play much more artistry and vitality than it deserved. It closed after 21 performances.
        Her private life was far different from the lives of the sassy characters she played. She was married to Clark Andrews, director of her radio show, from 1938 to 1942, when they divorced. In 1943 she married Cylos Dunsmoore, a Navy lieutenant. The marriage produced a son, Charles, but ended in divorce in 1947.
        Her third marriage, to Milton Bren, a film producer, lasted from 1948 until his death in 1979 of a brain tumor. Mr. Bren had two sons from a previous marriage, later prompting Miss Trevor to recall fondly that they had ''an instant family.'' In 1978 Miss Trevor lost her son, Charles, in an airliner disaster.
        The losses of her son and husband in the span of a year left her devastated, and she moved to New York, settling into a Fifth Avenue apartment and embarking on a busy social schedule. She also occasionally returned to acting, in her last role playing an aging schoolteacher in the 1987 television movie ''Norman Rockwell's Breaking Home Ties.''
        Miss Trevor would later return to California, where she was also known as a generous philanthropist.
        She is survived by her stepsons, Donald Bren, chairman of the Irvine Company, a real estate investment firm in Newport Beach, and Peter Bren, president of Koll-Bren-Schreiber, a real estate investment firm in New York.
      