
        Victoria A. Fromkin, an internationally renowned linguist who gathered the flotsam of human discourse -- slips of the tongue, mishearings and other speech errors -- and used it to illuminate the way in which language is organized in the mind, died on Jan. 19 in Los Angeles. She was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Fromkin, an emeritus professor of linguistics, had taught since 1965.
        In addition to publishing many articles on psycholinguistics, Dr. Fromkin and Robert Rodman wrote ''An Introduction to Language'' (Harcourt Brace), now in its sixth edition and regarded as the seminal undergraduate textbook in the field.
        As Dr. Fromkin was gleefully aware, everyday speech contains many a slip 'twixt the brain and the lip. While earlier scholars had noted the theoretical usefulness of these errors, she was the first to gather them in quantity, colleagues said, building a collection of linguistic inadvertencies like spoonerisms (''speech production'' coming out as ''preach seduction''), semantic substitutions (''That's a horse of a different race'') and slips of the ear (''All of the members of the group grew up in Philadelphia'' heard as ''All of the members of the group threw up in Philadelphia'').
        To know Dr. Fromkin was to be accustomed to having every verbal lapse transcribed for scientific posterity in a notebook she carried.
        Dr. Fromkin used the collection, which grew to more than 10,000 examples, to offer evidence of the unconscious knowledge of language structure that people draw on whenever they speak.
        A person who means to say ''bridge of the nose'' but says ''bridge of the neck'' instead, she explained, was furnishing concrete, if unwitting, evidence that the words ''nose'' and ''neck'' are stored near each other in some sort of mental lexicon.
        Dr. Fromkin was born Victoria Alexandra Landish in Passaic, N.J., on May 16, 1923. She received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1944. She married Jack Fromkin in 1948. A son, Mark, died in an automobile accident at age 16.
        Returning to school in her late 30's to study linguistics, Dr. Fromkin received a master's degree from U.C.L.A. in 1963 and a Ph.D. from the same institution in 1965. She joined the faculty that year.
        From 1980 to 1989, she was vice chancellor of graduate programs at U.C.L.A., one of the first women in the University of California system to hold such a position.
        She was a past president of the Linguistic Society of America. Dr. Fromkin is survived by her husband.
        ''We all produce slips of the tongue,'' Dr. Fromkin wrote in 1980. ''And those of us trying to understand the nature of language and language use are grateful for this fact.''
      