
        Vicki Sue Robinson, the vivacious pop-gospel singer whose 1976 hit ''Turn the Beat Around'' became a signature anthem of the disco era, died on Thursday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 46.
        The cause was cancer, said Gina Andriolo, her publicist.
        A prolific jingle singer whose 1999 Off Broadway show, ''Vicki Sue Robinson: Behind the Beat,'' had a successful limited engagement at the Kaufman Theater, Ms. Robinson was a powerful, exuberant belter whose dance-oriented records were among the best sung and least gimmicky disco records of late 70's.
        In her autobiographical show, a gaudy theatrical extension of her popular, long-running cabaret act, she showed her range as an all-around entertainer. As both a singer and songwriter, Ms. Robinson, who described herself as a latchkey child with a bohemian upbringing, exemplified the New York musical melting pot in the late 1960's and 70's with its colliding echoes of pop, rock, gospel and Broadway.
        Ms. Robinson was born in Harlem to a black actor and a white radical  folk singer. She made her singing debut at the Philadelphia Folk Festival when she was 6. Her early influences were folk and blues legends like Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie and Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, all friends of her mother. But she was also influenced by jazz singers like Dinah Washington and Sarah Vaughan, and later by Laura Nyro. While still a teenager, she appeared on Broadway in the musicals ''Hair'' and ''Jesus Christ Superstar.''
        She is survived by her husband, Bill Good, and her mother, Marian Robinson.
        Signed by RCA Records in the mid-1970's, she made four albums and  was nominated for a Grammy for best pop female vocalist. More recently, a single, ''House of Joy,'' became a major dance hit in Britain.
        Her show ''Behind the Beat'' was an uninhibited, sometimes campy cabaret extravaganza that blended pop-soul oldies, personal confessions, inspirational ballads and audience singalongs, and included versions of some of her best-known jingles pitching everything from fabric softener to the New York Telephone Company  (''We're all connected'').
      