
        Verna Aardema Vugteveen, a late-blooming, prolific writer who regaled generations of American children with the folklore of faraway Africa, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88.
        Verna Aardema, the name on her books (of Dutch origin and pronounced AR-duh-ma), taught elementary school in Michigan from 1934 to 1973. She also contributed articles to The Muskegon Chronicle in Michigan and taught Sunday school as she developed into a full-time author and folklorist, retelling the lore of Mexico and, particularly, Africa for children ages 4 to 8.
        She chose Africa when she realized that the continent, its people and their traditions remained terra incognita to American children. Her books became popular because they carried a natural storyteller's rhythm that lent itself to being read aloud by parents, and they were attractively illustrated and appealing to listeners of all ages.
        Ms. Aardema had 33 books published, the first, ''Tales From the Story Hat,'' in 1960, and the latest, ''Koi and the Kola Nuts: A Tale From Liberia,'' last year. Her New York agent, Marilyn Marlowe, said that Ms. Aardema had several more  completed when she died.
        Among her best-known books were ''Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People's Ears: A West African Tale'' (1975), and ''Bringing the Rain to Kapiti Plain'' (1981), which James Earl Jones read to inaugurate the PBS weekly program ''Reading Rainbow'' in 1982. Another favorite, ''Who's in Rabbit's House?'' (1977), retold a Masai tale in which a rabbit marshals his animal friends to remove a monster that has taken up residence in his home.
        She was born Verna Norberg in New Era, Mich., and graduated from what is now Michigan State University in 1935. After she gave up teaching  to devote more time to writing, she maintained a presence in the schools as a guest story reader and lectured at colleges to help aspiring writers.
        Locally, many knew her as the Story Lady. A stroke in 1992 left her in a wheelchair.
        Her first husband, Albert Aardema, died in 1974. Her second husband, Joel Vugteveen, also died. She is survived by a son, Dr. Austin Aardema of Fort Myers; a daughter, Paula Dufford of Valrico, Fla.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      