
        Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said her  daughter, K. Ann McDonald.
        Judge McDonald, a graduate of Columbia's law school, was named the administrative judge for the five New York City Family Court complexes in 1986. She had the title of administrative judge of the Family Court of New York City and retired from the post in 1995.
        During her tenure, she tried to improve the courts despite an explosion in the number of cases, budget cuts and crumbling facilities. The courts faced other new problems in the 90's, as well. In 1995, with difficult custody decisions being complicated by AIDS, and by relatives who had taken in the children, grown to love them and become unwilling to give them up without a fight, Judge McDonald said: ''A lot of the custody cases in the last few years have been families fighting each other. It's an in-house thing. It's an awkward thing.''
        In 1987, she said that largely because of drug addiction, more and more of the Family Court cases involved abused or neglected children, who had flooded the court system and in turn had overburdened the foster care system.
        After receiving her law degree in 1963, she became a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's juvenile rights division and then attorney-in-charge of Legal Aid's Manhattan office. In 1976, she became a Family Court judge. She was briefly supervising judge of the Family Court in New York County before becoming the administrative judge.
        Before entering law school in 1960, she worked in personnel and labor relations for 20 years. But one afternoon, she and a friend watched proceedings in Family Court at time when poor children were not given assigned counsel. Recalling that experience in an interview in 1986, she said: ''The rich kids all had lawyers, and the poor kids had nobody. I decided that I wanted to become a lawyer and represent children.''
        While she was the administrative judge, she also headed the New York Judicial Committee on Women in the Courts, which was established after a two-year study had found that ''gender bias against women litigants, attorneys and court employees is a pervasive problem.''
        In that post she carried out recommendations intended to rid the state courts of sex bias.
        With her in charge, the committee reported in 1987 that sensitivity training for judges and other programs had helped reduce such bias.
        Kathryn Austin was born in Albany, grew up in Long Lake, N.Y., and received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from Cornell. She was married for six decades to Robert J. McDonald, who was a tax lawyer with the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell. He died last year.
        Besides her daughter, K. Ann McDonald of Manhattan, a litigation lawyer with the Manhattan law firm of Robinson Murphy & McDonald, Judge McDonald is survived by a brother, Malcolm Patrick Austin of Chicago.
      