
        Eva BobrowEva Bobrow, who earned the first of three associate's degrees from Queensborough Community College in Bayside, Queens, when she was 64 and went on to become the institution's most important private benefactor, died May 12 at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. She was 92 and lived in Bayside.
        Born in Montreal on Nov. 23, 1907, Ms. Bobrow moved to New York City in 1922 and worked as a legal secretary and later as an accountant.
        Determined to get an education but lacking financial resources, she earned her first associate's degree -- an associate in applied science in business -- from Queensborough in 1972, having completed her part-time studies while working full time.
        As a full-time student at the college, she went on to earn two more associate's degrees -- an associate in arts in the liberal arts program in 1974 and an associate in science in the business administration program in 1978.
        Ms. Bobrow then moved to Queens College and graduated summa cum laude in 1983 with a bachelor's degree in accounting from CUNY's four-year program.
        Her allegiance to Queensborough never diminished, however.
        She continued to support it by serving as a member of the board of directors of the QCC Fund Inc., the school's major fund-raising organization; the ceremonial occasions committee, and the Alumni Association cabinet. She also tutored accounting students.
        Never wealthy, according to Jennifer J. Dullahan, a spokeswoman for the school, Ms. Bobrow became a benefactor by drawing upon her income as a legal secretary, a small inheritance and modest investments. Her contributions led to the establishment of many scholarships in her name and to the creation of an accounting tutorial laboratory and a nursing tutorial program.
        Her contributions have also supported projects of the QCC Fund Inc., including the Holocaust Resource Center and Archives, and the Art Gallery.
        Last fall, her support enabled the college to open a new Instructional Support Services Center for students.
        Ms. Bobrow is survived by a brother.
      