
        Barbara Cartland, whose outpouring of more than 700 romance novels during seven decades made her the undisputed queen of a genre for hundreds of millions of readers the world over, died yesterday at her home near Hatfield in Hertfordshire, England. She was 98.
        Throughout her professional life, Dame Barbara possessed a most uncommon ability: she was able to turn out 50,000-word novels at the rate of two a month. During the 1980's, when she was hardly young, she routinely produced 23 titles a year. With all of it she still managed to live the good life in Camfield Place, her gracious 400-acre estate in Hertfordshire,  with Twi-Twi, her Pekingese, and with her white Rolls-Royce ever at the ready, a pink mohair rug neatly folded in the back seat, there to keep guests comfortable when they were driven to her home from the station.
        And although her name may not have been taken seriously by the more serious students of comparative literature or by the subscribers to literary supplements, about one billion copies of her 723 books were printed and sold in 36 languages.  Bantam and Jove Publications were among her several American publishers.
        She has appeared in The Guinness Book of Records as the world's best-selling author, breaking records for 18 years.
        In a century in which so many writers struggled against censorship laws for the right to describe a variety of sexual activities in explicit terms, Dame Barbara's prose remained dedicated to an unlikely celebration of the adventures of passionate virgins.
        ''People don't roll around naked in my books,'' she said in an interview in 1987. ''I do allow them to go to bed if they're married, but it's all very wonderful and the moon beams.''
        It was the way to sustain an approach to fiction writing that remained essentially unchanged from the early 1920's to the end of her days. She was totally convinced of its appropriateness. When it was suggested that she could be a tad more risque, she replied, ''You can't get more naked than naked, can you, and then where do you go from there?''
        Her virgin heroines were typically fresh as April's peach blossoms. They were always wide-eyed, idealistic and impecunious, as demure as they were determined to struggle against all manner of vicissitudes in their quest to find Mr. Right.
        He, in turn, was invariably a dark, square-jawed chap, perhaps with bulging biceps, incessantly given to splendid thoughts despite his worldliness. He was furthermore possessed of that indefinable magnetism that seems to surround men who have an enormous bankroll, a title and all the connections needed to keep good women out of harm's way forever.
        Dame Barbara never asked anything of her heroines that she didn't ask of herself. Although twice married and the mother of three, she did not really like being kissed or touched, wrote a biographer with whom she cooperated, Gwen Robyns. ''It was part of the strange complex which meant she was a virgin not only physically but also mentally and spiritually,'' Ms. Robyns wrote in 1985.
        The process by which a man and a woman found each other usually occurred in Regency, Victorian or Georgian times, and before they got to live happily ever after, her characters said things like, ''Oh, Miss, there is evil in this house,'' or, ''My son will never marry; I am his life.''
        Her narrative style provided ample cement for such dialogue.
        ''All she knew was that she was close against him and he was kissing her wildly, passionately, demandingly and the world stood still,'' she wrote in ''Fire in the Blood,'' published in 1983. ''He kissed her until he carried her as he had before up the peak of Olympus, and they were no longer human but one with the gods.'' Even with stuff as racy as this, readers came away thinking that her heroines remained as untouched as they had been in Chapter 1.
        ''My heroines are always virgins,'' the writer said in 1973. ''They never go to bed without a ring on their fingers; not until page 118 at least.'' She also asserted that her notion of a truly sexy man was one who was ''fully clothed and preferably in uniform.''
        People who watched Dame Barbara in action were not sure how she produced so much work. She wrote so quickly that even her fans were not always in agreement as to how many titles she had produced at any given time. Since mere typewriters could never keep up with her, she neatly avoided them and dictated her fiction to awestruck assistants who wrote furiously, backed up by tape recorders.
        She was frequently able to dictate 7,000 words in an afternoon session, which usually lasted a few hours. She held forth from a sofa, a hot water bottle at her feet, her dog cuddled next to her, asleep. Her secretaries were not permitted to sneeze or cough while she dictated.
        Perhaps in part because of her approach to dictating, her prose offers a prodigious number of one-sentence paragraphs, closer in its look to wire-service journalism than to the pages of Faulkner or Fitzgerald. In addition to her books she wrote some 30 plays. Asked why she wrote so much, she replied, ''I wanted the money.'' On other occasions, however, she denounced society's materialism, if not her own.
        Barbara Hamilton Cartland was born in Warwickshire County, England, on July 9, 1901, the daughter of Bertram Cartland and Nancy H. Scobell Cartland, who was better known as Polly. Mr. Cartland was handsome and charming and came from a prominent family. But he could never have been the prototype for the novels his daughter would write. He was not a very good provider, and when his father's fortune was lost, forcing the family members to sell their house, it was Polly Cartland who led them into a home far less commodious than the one they had lost. The new one she rented offered only six bedrooms, a tennis court, stables and a garden that nobody had tended lately.
        ''Poor I may be, but common I am not,'' Polly said, sounding not unlike the heroines her daughter would later create. The Cartlands made do, and young Barbara and her two brothers spent their formative years this way, learning to play tiddlywinks and other games. By the time she was 19, Dame Barbara said, she had rejected four proposals of marriage.
        After she completed finishing school, she turned to writing and produced her first novel, ''Jigsaw,'' in 1922 when she was 21. It did not get good reviews -- one critic called it a ''modern feverish novel of the amateur'' -- but it went into six editions and was translated into five languages.
        She married Alexander McCorquodale in 1927. He was a rich Scotsman widely known as an accomplished salmon fisherman. They were divorced five years later, and although she said she did not like the McCorquodale family much, she married Hugh McCorquodale, Alexander's cousin, in 1936. This marriage lasted until Hugh's death in 1963.
        In addition to her writing, Dame Barbara found time to support many charities, promote aviation and work to improve the plight of pensioners and the acceptance of Gypsies in England. She was also credited with popularizing a swimming pool on the roof of the Hotel Piccadilly in London. She tried her hand at designing wallpaper and lent her name to a perfume. The perfume venture was unsuccessful, she said, because the perfume was not expensive enough.
        In 1950 she moved into Camfield Place, a palace built in 1867, in which Beatrix Potter wrote ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' at the turn of the century. In 1991 she was made a Dame of the British Empire. She said she was sure the honor was not for her contributions to literature but for her efforts of behalf of charities and the Gypsies.
        Dame Barbara is survived by a daughter, Raine, Countess Spencer, who was the stepmother of Diana, Princess of Wales; and two sons, Ian and Hugh McCorquodale.
        Dame Barbara was steadfast in her belief in vitamins -- at one point she took 78 a day -- and in yoga, clairvoyance, fruit sugar, ginseng, garlic and honey. She wrote so convincingly that honey was an aphrodisiac in ''The Magic of Honey,'' published in 1970, that a temporary shortage was created in Britain.
        She had no use for smoking, white bread, white sugar and most forms of alcohol, but she drank brandy when she visited New York in 1981 because, she said, she could taste chlorine in the water.
      