
        Penelope Fitzgerald, who began a prize-winning literary career late in life with a series of understated novels written in lilting prose, died on Friday in Highgate, London. She was 83 and lived in London.
        Ms. Fitzgerald was the author of the 1995 novel ''The Blue Flower'' about the German poet Novalis and his hapless love for a 12-year-old girl. The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998, defeating works by authors Philip Roth and Don DeLillo.
        The writer A. S. Byatt once called Ms. Fitzgerald ''Jane Austen's nearest heir, for precision and invention.'' Ms. Fitzgerald published her first novel, a mystery, ''The Golden Child,'' in 1977, when she was 60. The book was written to entertain her dying husband, Desmond Fitzgerald. But despite her late start, Ms. Fitzgerald wrote 13 books, including biographies. They were leavened with a forgiving humor and gentle flashes of illumination. She won England's  Booker Prize for ''Offshore'' in 1979.
        Her books were short, usually around 200 pages, and comprised of brief, pointed scenes. For her early books, she drew on her own life. There was her experience working in a bookshop and living in an abandoned warehouse in Suffolk, recounted in ''The Bookshop'' in 1978. That novel was short-listed for the Booker Prize. Then came her story of trying to survive as a young mother on a houseboat on the Thames in ''Offshore.'' In ''Human Voices'' (1980) she used material from her job at the BBC during World War II. ''At Freddie's,'' 1982, was based on her job teaching child actors.
        Ms. Fitzgerald's characters were people fallen into difficult circumstances, struggling to cope. She once called them ''exterminatees,'' which she defined as ''likely to be stamped out with other things unlikely to succeed.'' Yet there was a deep sympathy, an underlying moral vision in her work. She did not write religious books, but she once described herself as religious.
        Everything in Ms. Fitzgerald's background ordained her for an intellectual career, and yet for much of her adult life she was beleaguered, coping with a husband who drank and had difficulty keeping a job, and raising three children. She was born in 1916. Both her grandfathers were Anglican bishops. Her father, Edmund Valpy Knox, was the editor of Punch. One uncle, Ronald, was a Catholic convert, a Monsignor and a  spokesman for the church. Another uncle, Dillwyn, was a Greek scholar and cryptographer who helped break German codes in World War I and II. A third uncle, Wilfred, became an Anglo-Catholic priest. It was a deeply competitive family, with Ms. Fitzgerald, her brother, Rawle, who became a foreign correspondent, and their uncles vying at the dinner table at literary games. She later wrote a biography of her father and his brothers, ''The Knox Brothers,'' published in 1977. Ms. Fitzgerald's mother, Christina, was one of the first female students at Somerville College, Oxford. Penelope was sent to boarding school at the age of 7, an experience that devastated her.  Then, when she was 18 and about to go to Somerville herself, her mother died.
        At Somerville, she studied with J. R. R. Tolkien and graduated with honors in 1938. She married Desmond Fitzgerald, a major in the Irish Guards. He had been trained as a barrister, but became a travel agent.  Ms. Fitzgerald once told an interviewer that her husband ''didn't have much luck in life.'' She supplemented the family income by working at various jobs, including in the Ministry of Food. With her husband, she was editor of ''The World Review,'' a small literary journal. The family moved often and ended up living on a dilapidated houseboat in London. In 1963 it sank for the second time. ''A lot of people would have gone down, too,'' Ms. Fitzgerald's daughter Maria told a writer for The New York Times magazine last year. ''My dad was drinking a lot then.  Somehow, my mum pulled herself together.'' The family moved to public housing and Ms. Fitzgerald became its main breadwinner. She is survived by Maria, of London; another daughter, Christina Dooley, of Cornwall; a son, Valpy Fitzgerald of Oxford, and nine grandchildren.
        Ms. Fitzgerald published her first book, a biography of the Victorian artist Edward Burne-Jones, in 1975. Yet despite the difficulties of her life as a young married woman, she refused to blame the delay in her writing career on her obligations as a wife and mother. ''In all that time, I could have written books and I didn't,'' she told The Times Magazine. ''I think you can write at any time of  your life.'' She was also reticent about her marriage.
        Indeed, there was a delicate, elusive quality about Ms. Fitzgerald.  She had an apologetic, modest manner that concealed an underlying strength. ''She's prepared to play the scatty old lady,'' A. S. Byatt told the Times. ''But there's a steely intelligence under that gentle scattiness.''
        In her later works, Ms. Fitzgerald departed somewhat from the autobiographical mode of her earlier fiction. She wrote ''The Beginning of Spring'' (1988), set in pre-Revolutionary Russia. ''The Gate of Angels,'' was about Cambridge in 1912 and based loosely on her uncles' lives. She loved the research involved in historical fiction, she said, but found writing incurably painful.  ''I hate writing, ,'' she told Publisher's Weekly. ''You just welcome any interruption that comes.''
        Her editor at HarperCollins in London, Stuart Proffitt, compared her recent books to Beethoven in his ''late period,'' he said, '''where everything is getting pared down but the content is more concentrated.''
        Ms. Fitzgerald's daughter Maria said that she worked until the week she died. Her final book, ''The Means of Escape,'' a story collection, is to be published next fall by Counterpoint.
        ''I have remained true to my deepest convictions,'' Ms. Fitzgerald said in 1998. ''I mean to the courage of those who are born to be defeated, the weaknesses of the strong, and the tragedy of misunderstandings and missed opportunities, which I have done my best to treat as comedy, for otherwise how can we manage to bear it?''
        Correction:  May 8, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the British novelist Penelope Fitzgerald on Wednesday misidentified the publisher of ''The Means of Escape,'' her story collection due this fall. It is Houghton Mifflin, not Counterpoint.
      