
        Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, her family said.
        In 1968, Lucille Ball and Henry Fonda starred in the film ''Yours, Mine and Ours,'' based on Mrs. Beardsley's 1964 book, ''Who Gets the Drumstick?'' (Random House), which recounted the logistical problems of raising 20 children in a modern middle-class American family.
        Mrs. Beardsley's first husband, Lt. Richard Dale North, a Navy pilot, died in a fighter-jet crash in 1960, when she was six months pregnant with their eighth child. The next year, she married another naval officer, Chief Warrant Officer Francis L. Beardsley, whose wife had recently died of diabetes, leaving him with their 10 children. The 18 children ranged in age from 6 months to 15 years. By 1964, the Beardsleys had two additional children of their own.
        ''I was the oldest of the North boys,'' said Nicholas North, who became a middle child. ''I had lost a father, but all of a sudden I had older brothers.''
        Teresa Wyble, the youngest of the North children, said that when the families joined, it was as if she had gained a twin. ''There is only six months between my sister Joan and I, and there are several of us like that,'' Mrs. Wyble said. She said the household had at least one birthday in every month but May.
        When the Beardleys were first married, they lived in a two-story, four-bedroom house in Carmel, Calif. Later, using proceeds from the book and movie, they added a floor, five bedrooms and five bathrooms.
        A bread company used the children in its commercials in the 1960's and delivered 50 loaves to the Beardsleys every two weeks. The Navy commissary listed the family as a restaurant so that the Beardsleys could buy food at wholesale prices.
        Helen Eileen Brandmeir was born April 5, 1930, in Seattle. She studied nursing at Seattle University. She was named Mother of the Year by the National Campfire Girls in 1963 and was a member of the California Advisory Commission on the Status of Women.
        When Mr. Beardsley retired from the Navy in 1968, the couple opened three bakeries in Monterey, Calif. In 1973, Mrs. Beardsley went to work for the Carmel Community Hospital. She later worked as a cardiovascular technologist at a hospital in Fresno, Calif. The couple retired to Santa Rosa in 1986.
        Mrs. Beardsley is survived by her husband; 20 children; 44 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
        Explaining once how she had managed to keep the house running smoothly, Mrs. Beardsley said, ''I think the military background helped.''
      