
        Teri Thornton, a jazz singer who had started to resurrect her career after winning the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in 1998 and being signed to a major record label for the first time in three decades, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey. She was 65 and lived at the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood.
        The cause was cancer of the bladder, said her manager, Suzi Reynolds.
        Ms. Thornton had a husky, keening voice with a muscly vibrato; she was a vibrant performer with a caustic sense of humor, and she was particularly gifted at coaxing harmonic complexity and emotion out of the blues.
        She was born in Detroit, where her parents, Robert Avery, a Pullman porter, and Burniece Crews Avery, a choir director and singer who was the host of a local radio show, encouraged her to study classical music.
        Ms. Thornton, whose original name was Shirley Enid Avery, took up jazz instead, learning to sing and play the piano. By the age of 19, she was a divorced mother of two and had not yet begun to sing professionally.
        But she found a spot at the Ebony Club in Cleveland and within a few years was living in Chicago and appearing with the saxophonists Johnny Griffin and Cannonball Adderley and finding work as the intermission pianist for strippers at the Red Garter nightclub.
        Her career took off in 1961, with the release of her album ''Devil May Care,'' in which she sang in the company of the pianist Wynton Kelly and the Count Basie sidemen Clark Terry and Freddie Green. Her biggest hit, ''Somewhere in the Night,'' came a year later; it had been the theme of the television series ''Naked City,'' and she found herself singing it on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and other variety programs.
        Ms. Thornton was signed by Columbia Records, and her exposure increased. She took part in a television program celebrating Duke Ellington's 40th anniversary in music, and Ella Fitzgerald told Down Beat magazine that Ms. Thornton was her favorite singer.
        But at that point, her career started to slide. She attributed her downfall not only to the rise of rock 'n' roll but also to bad management and her addiction to drugs and alcohol. She moved to Los Angeles in the late 1960's and throughout the next decade took what jobs were available, including driving a taxi.
        In 1979 she began her career again, playing and singing in piano bars. After moving to New York in the early 1980's she became a regular at small restaurant clubs like Zinno's and Cleopatra's Needle.
        She was performing at the Bern Jazz Festival in Switzerland in 1998 when she collapsed and underwent emergency surgery. Cancer was diagnosed and she underwent radiation and chemotherapy treatments, but she decided to compete in the Thelonious Monk competition in Washington.
        The strength of her performance was undeniable, Peter Watrous wrote in The New York Times. She won the $20,000 prize ''by singing well and digging into some of the best aspects of black entertainment culture, the parts that make audience members and performers join in the same experience.''
        Verve Records signed her, and she made an album called ''I'll Be Easy to Find.'' In January she filled a weeklong engagement at the Village Vanguard in Manhattan.
        Ms. Thornton is survived by two sons, Kenneth Thornton of Detroit and Kelly Glusovich of New York; a daughter, Rose McKinney-James of Las Vegas; and six grandchildren.
      