
        Elizabeth Wilcox, who took more than 100,000 sensitive photographs chronicling 35 years of medical care at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and then gave them to the center, died on May 6 at a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. She was 84 and had lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and in Redding, Conn.
        The cause was a stroke, said her son Herbert B. Wilcox III.
        Mrs. Wilcox, known as Libby, was a professional photographer known  for her medical photographs, but her work at the hospital, in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, was done as a volunteer; her husband, Dr. Herbert B. Wilcox Jr., was long affiliated with the center. She also worked as a freelance photographer for national magazines like Time and Newsweek.
        ''I take pictures like a writer writes,'' she once said. ''Each negative is a note in the manuscript. After all, what photography is, is to write with light.''
        In 1991 she and her husband, a  retired associate professor of medicine at Columbia University's medical school, gave the center her collection of more than 100,000 photographic images, almost all taken at the center.
        The collection also includes negatives, prints and pages from publications in which her photographs appeared with articles and sometimes in advertisements, particularly medical advertisements. The collection, which is named for her, is housed in the Augustus C. Long Library at the medical center and is not on display to the public.
        ''The collection chronicles the history of this medical center and looks in depth at every aspect of medical and nursing education and the delivery of health care,'' said Dr. Pat Moholt, associate dean for scholarly resources in Columbia University's health sciences division, which includes the medical center.
        She said Mrs. Wilcox ''was a very perceptive photographer and, through photography, drew out the essence of a situation or of a person.''  She added, ''Through her photographs you could grasp a whole story.''
        Mrs. Wilcox began her work at the center in 1957 with a day-to-day visual chronicle of clinical research relating to childhood nephrosis, a kidney disease.
        In 1962, she photographed former President Herbert Hoover as a patient there. After receiving pictures she had taken of him, he wrote her: ''They are on the flattering side. But I can stand some of that.''
        In the same year she went to Liberia with students from the medical school who spent two months at a leprosarium there.
        During the 1965 blackout, she rushed to the medical center and spent the long night taking pictures. Those who see her blackout photographs understand ''the complexity of the situation and the urgency of what these committed people were trying to accomplish,'' Dr. Moholt said.
        A picture she took at the medical center during the blackout is now on display at the Museum of the City of New York.
        After Peggy Jo Kienast gave birth to quintuplets in 1970, Mrs. Wilcox was the only photographer permitted to take official pictures of them at the medical center.
        She achieved early mastery of the computer as a tool to help her index the collection given to the medical center.
        A native of Baltimore, she was the daughter of Dr. Gordon Wilson, a physician, and Elizabeth Elliott Wilson, and she attended Bryn Mawr School in Baltimore.
        Her husband, whom she married in 1937, died in 1997.
        Besides her son Herbert, of North Hero, Vt., she is survived by two other sons, Gordon W. of Seattle and Thomas E. of Concord, Mass.; and five grandchildren.
      