
        Sybil Trent, a veteran of the golden age of radio and a star of the Saturday-morning children's radio show ''Let's Pretend,'' died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73.
        The cause was lymphoma, said her son Drew Nieporent, the restaurateur.
        Ms. Trent's voice was first heard on ''Let's Pretend'' in 1935, not long after she made her Broadway debut alongside Jimmy Durante, Gloria Grafton and Donald Novis, and atop an elephant, in Billy Rose's ''Jumbo,'' with songs by Rodgers and Hart,  at the Hippodrome Theater.
        Over two decades, until the final broadcast of ''Let's Pretend'' in 1954, she entertained young listeners with renditions of princesses and fairy godmothers and found fame in her startlingly realistic ''baby cry.''
        A precocious child, Ms. Trent began her career at the age of 3 1/2, when she performed in a short film with Fatty Arbuckle. Soon, she was singing and dancing her way through more than 25 shorts with stars like Ruth Etting and Jack Haley as a member of the Warner Brothers stock company.
        Feature films at RKO followed, including ''The People's Enemy'' (1935) with Melvyn Douglas and Lila Lee, and ''Keep 'Em Rolling'' (1934) with Walter Huston.
        By the age of 6, Ms. Trent was the host of her own radio show on WHN, ''Baby Sybil Elaine and Her Kiddie Revue,'' on which she would conjure  imitations of Joe Penner and the Block and Sully comedy team before closing with a sweetly sung ''Thank You for a Lovely Evening.''
        One of the 150 charter members of the American Federation of Radio Artists, Ms. Trent also took the lead on ''We Love and Learn,'' ''Stella Dallas,'' ''Aunt Jenny'' and ''David Harum,'' and performed on shows like ''The Martha Raye Show,'' ''The Ed Sullivan Show''and Joe Franklin's ''Memory Lane.''
        From 1973 to 1994, she was the casting director at the Young & Rubicam advertising agency in Manhattan.
        Ms. Trent continued to do vocal work on commercials and in her spare time took reservations at her son's Manhattan restaurants.
        ''The woman on the phone has the most delicious voice: low, slightly husky, completely inviting,'' Ruth Reichl wrote in 1994 in The New York Times of Ms. Trent's mellifluous tones. ''Just calling for a reservation makes you eager to eat at Montrachet.''
        In addition to her son Drew, she is survived by another son, Tracy, and four grandchildren, all of New Jersey.
      