
       Rosamond Lehmann, whose novels of love, betrayal and family rivalries were critically acclaimed, died in her home here on Monday, her family announced today. She was 89 years old.
        Rosamond Lehmann, whose novels of love, betrayal and family rivalries were critically acclaimed, died in her home here on Monday, her family announced today. She was 89 years old.
        Miss Lehmann's first novel, ''Dusty Answer,'' won immediate fame for the young author when it was published in 1927. The novel, about a girl's development from childhood to maturity, was praised for its candor, wit and psychological insight as well as for its lyrical, sensuous writing.
        She followed this with ''A Note of Music'' in 1930, ''Invitation to the Waltz'' in 1932, ''The Weather in the Streets'' in 1936, ''The Ballad and the Source'' in 1944 and ''The Gypsy's Baby,'' a collection of short stories, in 1946.
        Two Sisters, One Lover
        Her next book was ''The Echoing Grove,'' about the relationship between two sisters and the man who is the husband of one and the lover of the other.
        With shifts of time and approach, the same incidents in the book are seen through the eyes of different people.
        The book was written after the bitter breakup of Miss Lehmann's love affair with the poet Cecil Day Lewis, and critics said it carried clear traces of that time in her life.
        The soft-voiced author grew up in a large, comfortable home at Bourne End on the Thames near London. She was educated at Cambridge University.
        Married 2 Future Lords
        She met her first husband, Walter Runciman, who was later to become Lord Runciman, at Cambridge University. They married in 1923 and were divorced in 1928.
        Later in 1928, she married Wogan Philipps, the eldest son of the first Lord Milford, the shipping magnate. They had two children, Hugo and Sally. That marriage ended in divorce in 1944.
        Her grief over the death of her daughter from polio led her to spiritualism for a time. For many of her later years she was vice president of the privately financed College of Psychic Studies in London.
        Toward the end of Miss Lehmann's life, the Virago Press, which specializes in works by women, republished many of her novels, introducing her work to a new generation of readers.
        Queen Elizabeth II awarded Miss Lehmann the Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1982.
        She is survived by her son, Hugo.
      