
       Lilly Dache, the milliner who flourished in this country in the decades when women selected their new hats before they chose their new clothes, died Sunday at a nursing home in Louvecienne, France. She was 97 years old.
        Lilly Dache, the milliner who flourished in this country in the decades when women selected their new hats before they chose their new clothes, died Sunday at a nursing home in Louvecienne, France. She was 97 years old.
        She was best known for her turbans, which she made by draping the fabric right on her customers' heads.
        ''I would talk to the woman, ask her where she planned to wear the hat, what kind of dress she would wear it with,'' she told an interviewer at the end of her career. ''If she thought her nose was too long, I would make a hat with a brim and pull it down so you couldn't see the nose so much. I made everything with love, affection and excitement.''
        Customers Included Film Stars
        Her clients included Hollywood stars like Sonja Henie, Audrey Hepburn, Carole Lombard and Marlene Dietrich. Her last customer was Loretta Young, who arrived at her studio after Miss Dache decided to retire and bought her last 30 hats.
        That was in 1968. Miss Dache's husband, Jean Despres, an executive at Coty Inc., the fragrance and cosmetics house, was retiring and she decided to close her business. Until his death last year, she and her husband divided their time between Delray Beach, Fla., and Meudon, France.
        She had come to this country from France at the age of 16 and lived with an uncle in Atlantic City at first. But she soon went to New York, saw a sign in a window on a shop on Broadway saying ''Milliner Wanted'' and got the job.
        She and another woman working there eventually bought the shop from the owner. She remembered the first hat she made as her own boss: a turban in four shades of blue, made from scraps lying in the shop.
        A Leader in Fashion World
        She was part of a group of milliners who were better known at the time than dress designers. They included John-Fredericks, Walter Florell, Laddie Northridge and Sally Victor.
        In the 1930's depression era, women with limited funds tended to buy new hats instead of new clothes. In the 1940's clothing fabric was in restricted supply because of World War II, and hats continued in demand because they were showy.
        But Miss Dache saw that millinery might not continue in fashion indefinitely, so she developed snoods with flowers, veils and bows as alternatives.
        At the end of the 1950's she hired a young assistant from Chicago, Halston Frowick, who went on to become known for his own line of clothes. She also hired Kenneth Battell to take charge of her hair salon. By the 1960's elaborate coiffures by Kenneth, as he was known, swept hats off the fashion map.
        Miss Dache did not mourn the end of the millinery era. After her retirement, she rarely wore a hat; she preferred wigs.
        She is survived by her daughter, Suzanne Dache-Gould, who also became a milliner, and two grandsons. A funeral service will be held in Meudon on Thursday.
      