
       Leslee Reis, a restaurateur credited with bringing cosmopolitan dining to the Middle West, died of a heart attack on Sunday while on vacation in New Orleans. She was 47 years old and lived in Evanston, Ill.
        Leslee Reis, a restaurateur credited with bringing cosmopolitan dining to the Middle West, died of a heart attack on Sunday while on vacation in New Orleans. She was 47 years old and lived in Evanston, Ill.
        She suffered from diabetes and had recently developed kidney disease.
        Ms. Reis was born in Chicago, grew up in Cincinnati and graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in 1964 with a degree in biochemistry. While doing graduate work at Harvard University, she fell into what would be her lifelong passion: imaginative, lusty French cooking. She apprenticed herself to Julia Child and washed dishes for Mrs. Child's cooking classes in the Boston area. Eventually, Ms. Reis studied cooking at the Cordon Bleu in Paris.
        In 1966 she and her husband, Andrew Reis, moved to Evanston, where Ms. Reis began a catering business. Eleven years later she opened Cafe Provencale, a country-style French restaurant with a partner, Lizann Bradshaw. Ms. Reis's cooking, her vast knowledge and flamboyant way with fine food and wine, her independent spirit and her table-side comedienne appearances earned Cafe Provencale a devoted following in the Chicago suburb.
        ''She was a jolly, lively, good person and a wonderful chef,'' Mrs. Child said yesterday. ''She showed the world that you didn't have to be a man to be a great cook, and she was so generous in advancing women in the restaurant business.''
        Ms. Reis earned 11 Critics' Choice Awards from Chicago magazine. She was a founding member of both the American Institute of Wine and Food and the Chicago branch of Les Dames d'Escoffier, a culinary group. In 1987 she was included in the Who's Who of Cooking in America, compiled by Cook's Magazine. The following year Cafe Provencale was named the fifth best dining spot in America by the Zagat Survey.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Winthrop, of Novato, Calif., and Elliot, of Evanston, and her mother, Shirley Tauber of Bellbrook, Ohio.
      