
       Barbara Baer Capitman, whose vision and persistence helped to turn a rundown area of Miami Beach into a vibrant Art Deco historic district, died of congestive heart failure on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. She was 69 years old and suffered from diabetes and heart tremors.
        Barbara Baer Capitman, whose vision and persistence helped to turn a rundown area of Miami Beach into a vibrant Art Deco historic district, died of congestive heart failure on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. She was 69 years old and suffered from diabetes and heart tremors.
        Ms. Capitman, who had lived in Miami since 1973, applied her talents to arouse renewed interest in 1920's and 1930's buildings throughout the country. Radio City Music Hall and the Chrysler Building are among the best examples of Art Deco.
        ''My whole life had been Art Deco,'' she once said. ''I was born at the beginning of the period and grew up during the height of it. It's a thing of fate.''
        Headed a Preservation League
        In 1976 she helped to found the Miami Design Preservation League, which in 1979 won Federal historic designation for the South Beach district of Miami Beach. Her outspoken, unorthodox manner later led to her ouster from the group.
        ''She would push and agitate and cause trouble until people wouldn't speak to her,'' said Michael Kinerk, chairman of the Art Deco Weekend festival. ''She was interested in results, not social sensitivities.''
        The South Beach district is now on the National Register of Historic Places, the only 20th-century district on the register. That status brought Federal tax relief to what had been a depressed area. It is now enjoying an economic and cultural rebirth.
        Chapters in Other Towns
        Mrs. Capitman, president of the Art Deco Society of America, helped found chapters of the society in several cities, including New York, Washington, Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles. She was the author of ''Deco Delights'' (1989; E. P. Dutton).
        She was born in Chicago and attended New York University. She later wrote advertising copy and was a reporter for The Atlantic City Daily World, which has ceased publication.
        Her husband, William Capitman, died in 1975. He was a market researcher and economist and in later years a teacher at Florida International University.
        Mrs. Capitman leaves two sons, Andrew W., who lives in London, and John A., who lives in Cambridge, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      