
       Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. She was 86 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. She was 86 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        Humor, natural history, the supernatural and witchcraft were the subjects of many of Ms. Hoke's books. She also specialized in anthologies of ghost stories, one of which she wrote with her grandson, Franklin Hoke.
        Among her other books for young readers were ''The Horse That Took the Milk Around,'' ''Too Many Kittens,'' ''Factory Kitty'' and ''Grocery Kitty.''
        In the late 1930's, Ms. Hoke inaugurated and managed children's book departments at several publishing houses, including Henry Holt, Reynal & Hitchcock and Julian Messer. In the 1940's, Ms. Hoke, whose first marriage, to John Hoke, had ended in divorce, married Franklin Watts, founder the New York publishing company that bears his name. She became the company's vice president and director of international projects.
        She and her husband established Franklin Watts Ltd. in London in the 1960's, and Ms. Hoke worked there into the 1970's before returning to the United States. Ms. Hoke also organized Helen Hoke Associates, which represented authors, and oversaw publication of books from inception to marketing. Her son, John Hoke, said she was ''awfully good at finding new authors.''
        In the 1970's she began naming her books with what she called ''Terrific Triple Titles.'' Among these books were, ''Witches, Witches, Witches,'' ''Jokes, Jokes, Jokes'' and ''Nurses, Nurses, Nurses,'' an anthology of short stories, poems and excerpts from biographies and novels.
        Jean Vestal of Franklin Watts said one of Ms. Hoke's contributions to children's book publishing was her early support of the Bologna International Children's Book Fair in Italy, which has become an important element in the industry.
        Ms. Hoke and her son, a photographer and writer, wrote ''Music Boxes: Their Lore and Lure'' in 1957. It was her 32d book and her first nonfiction work.
        Ms. Hoke was also executive director of the Julia Ellsworth Ford Foundation, which conducted annual children's book competitions.
        Surviving are her son, who lives in Bethesda, and four grandchildren.
      