
       Lola L. Szladits, the renowned curator of the New York Public Library's Berg Collection of English and American Literature, who expanded the collection to include original manuscripts that ranged from W. B. Yeats to S. J. Perelman and Saul Bellow, died of cancer Friday night at her home in Manhattan.
        Lola L. Szladits, the renowned curator of the New York Public Library's Berg Collection of English and American Literature, who expanded the collection to include original manuscripts that ranged from W. B. Yeats to S. J. Perelman and Saul Bellow, died of cancer Friday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 67 years old.
        During her 20 years as curator, Dr. Szladits scoured England to bargain for diaries and first editions; in this country, she cajoled American authors to think of the Berg first when parting with their papers. In the faintly discernible accent of her native Hungary, she was fond of joking, though without affectation, ''Whatever Lola wants, Lola gets.''
        Everyone from the president of the library to her assistants called Dr. Szladits by her first name. She, in turn, was on a first-name basis with her precious manuscripts. When she spoke of ''Tom,'' she meant T. S. Eliot, of ''Wystan,'' W. H. Auden, and of ''Virginia,'' her greatly admired diarist and novelist, Virginia Woolf.
        Sitting in her cramped office off the Berg's reading and exhibition rooms on the third floor of the library on Fifth Avenue at 42d Street, Dr. Szladits liked to reach for the exact quotation from one of the tens of thousands of documents in the collection.
        'We Protect the Written Word'
        Last year, when she mounted a show on diarists, it included 50 of her famous authors, including James Boswell, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Herman Melville and, of course, Virginia Woolf, whose manuscripts in 33 volumes are one of the prizes in the Berg. She liked to quote ''Virginia,'' who said, ''Fortunately, intellect has no gender.''
        Dr. Szladits considered the Berg not a musty repository of the past but a working collection that was used by biographers from all over the world.
        ''We protect the written word at the Berg,'' she told Whitney Balliett, who wrote a profile about her in The New Yorker on Dec. 31, 1984 - the first such article about a librarian in the magazine's history. ''It is a research collection, not a museum. It has to be used. It is alive. My role at the Berg is to stand still and allow the collection to grow. In fact, I try to make time itself stand still here. I try to create quiet and the timelessness that allows for the pursuit of truth.''
        Auden's Handwritten Notebooks
        Born in Budapest, she immigrated to the United States in 1950 and became a naturalized citizen in 1956. After receiving her doctorate in Hungary, she did postgraduate work at the Sorbonne in Paris, University College in London and Columbia University. She joined the New York Public Library in 1955 and was appointed curator of the Berg Collection in 1969.
        Among her most significant acquisitions were Auden's handwritten notebooks. She also established or expanded files on Conrad Aiken, H. G. Wells, Muriel Rukeyser, Evelyn Waugh, Samuel Beckett, William Faulkner, May Sarton, Washington Irving, Walt Whitman and Oliver Wendell Holmes.
        ''I am buying in eternity,'' Dr. Szladits once remarked.
        Paul Fasana, the library's Andrew W. Mellon Director of Research Libraries, said yesterday: ''Lola was an original. Her standards, for herself and others, were high and at times unattainable. Her dedication to the ideal of literary scholarship was fierce. But she was also loving and human.''
        Dr. Szladits was married to Charles Szladits, a professor of law at Columbia University, who died in 1986.
        A memorial service will be held on May 5 in the Celeste Bartos Forum of the library, and a book fund in her name will be established for the Berg Collection.
      