
       Sister Thea Bowman, a nationally active black educator who with song, prayer and persistent exhortation urged the Roman Catholic Church to embrace the culture of African Americans, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Canton, Miss. She was 52 years old.
        Sister Thea Bowman, a nationally active black educator who with song, prayer and persistent exhortation urged the Roman Catholic Church to embrace the culture of African Americans, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Canton, Miss. She was 52 years old.
        Eight months ago, at a semiannual meeting of the nation's Catholic bishops in South Orange, N.J., Sister Thea, suffering from breast and bone cancer, brought the assembly to its feet with an address depicting the black experience in America. She then asked the prelates to cross arms, clasp hands and sing ''We Shall Overcome.''
        ''You've got to move together to do that,'' she told them.
        But the work of Sister Thea, a Canton native who was the granddaughter of a slave, was far more than symbolic.
        She was director of the Office of Intercultural Affairs for the Diocese of Jackson, Miss., and served on the faculty of the Institute of Black Catholic Studies at Xavier University in New Orleans. Last year, Mary Lou Jennings of Stowe, Vt., and the Rev. Thomas F. X. Hoar of Winooski, Vt., established the Sister Thea Bowman Black Catholic Educational Foundation to provide financial support for black students at all educational levels.
        ''She was an outstanding woman,'' said Bishop Joseph Houck of the Diocese of Jackson. ''She was proud of her heritage and totally dedicated to the vision of Jesus Christ for love and growth of all people.''
        Sister Thea was to receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics, at the University of Notre Dame's commencement exercises on May 20. The award will be posthumously presented, the university said Friday.
        Working and Praying Together
        Much of the work of Sister Thea, the only black member of the Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration, was done through music.
        ''When I came into the Catholic Church in the 1940's,'' she said in an interview in 1987, ''we had to leave behind us the music that was an expression of the spirituality of our home, community and upbringing. People were teaching us uniformity.''
        The uniformity began to break down in the early 1960's, she said, when the Second Vatican Council encouraged expressions of ethnic heritage. She recorded an album of 15 spirituals, ''Sister Thea: Songs of My People,'' in 1988.
        ''There's a black church that transcends denominations,'' Sister Thea said in the 1987 interview. ''If we work together, play together, stand together, pray together, then we can create a new heaven.''
        She is survived by three cousins, Barbara Barber, Anita Scott and Johnie Middleton, all of Jackson.
      