
       Helene Pons, a leading costume designer for almost four decades until her retirement in 1965, died of kidney problems yesterday at a private clinic in Rome. She was within two weeks of her 92d birthday.
        Helene Pons, a leading costume designer for almost four decades until her retirement in 1965, died of kidney problems yesterday at a private clinic in Rome. She was within two weeks of her 92d birthday.
        Mrs. Pons designed and executed the costumes for such shows as ''Our Town,'' ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' ''Babes in Arms'' and ''The Time of the Cuckoo.'' She also executed the designs for scores of other shows, including ''My Fair Lady,'' ''Camelot,'' ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Pal Joey'' and for many productions of the Metropolitan Opera Company, American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet.
        She once noted that one of her most troublesome stage designs was the slip worn by Barbara Bel Geddes in the original 1955 production of ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' The slip was remade several times because ''she had to be decent,'' Mrs. Pons said. ''Yet it had to look just like any ordinary slip you buy in a store,'' she added.
        Known for her fractured pronunciation - speaking French with a Russian accent and English with a French accent - she was also, at times, impatient and explosive. She was said to have once screamed at an assistant, in one breath, ''You go to hell and be sure to get back here by 4:30!''
        Running a Studio
        Mrs. Pons, the former Helene Wermicheff, was born on April 30, 1898, in Tiflis in the Caucasus of Russia. She was educated in Switzerland and in 1920 went to Paris to study art. There she met and married George Pons, technical director of the Chauve Souris, a theater company organized by Soviet emigres.
        The company traveled to England and, in 1922, to New York City, where Mrs. Pons and her husband established a studio for the design and execution of stage costumes in 1923. Mrs. Pons was in charge of the designs and Mr. Pons, who died in 1959, took care of the business side of the firm.
        ''She has an intuition,'' Mr. Pons once said. ''I have accuracy, but she is an artist.''
        Mrs. Pons, who spent the years after her retirement living in New York, California and Rome, entered the Rome clinic in August.
        She is survived by a daughter, Giselle Marziale, three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, all of whom live in Rome. Burial is to take place tomorrow at the Marzione family tomb in Verano Cemetery in Rome.
        Correction:  April 24, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Friday about the costume designer Helene Pons misidentified the designer of the slip worn by Barbara Bel Geddes in the original 1955 production of ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' It was Lucinda Ballard, not Mrs. Pons.
      