
       Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to mass produce Melba toast in 1932 and was honorary chairman of the Devonsheer Melba Corporation when she retired in 1975, died in her sleep on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old.
        Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to mass produce Melba toast in 1932 and was honorary chairman of the Devonsheer Melba Corporation when she retired in 1975, died in her sleep on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old.
        Family members said Mrs. Weil's method could be traced from a night out at a restaurant. Mrs. Weil and her husband, Bert, had just bought the Devon Bakery in the Starrett-Lehigh Building on 11th Avenue at 26th Street and celebrated at Delmonico's. There, Mr. Weil admired the delicate curls of Melba toast, created at the turn of the century in London by Auguste Escoffier to honor Nellie Melba, the Australian soprano, who would eat pate only on extremely thin bread.
        Mrs. Weil, aware that the bakery business was perilous in the Depression, sought a way to put Melba toast on the family table. In her kitchen she sliced a loaf bread very thin, put it in the oven and placed a clothes iron on the slices. The toast stayed flat and was firm and crisp, capable of being wrapped, boxed and shipped to stores and restaurants. Her method led Mr. Weil to develop ovens to mass produce the slices.
        In 1938 the Weils changed the company name to Devonsheer Melba, to suggest an English origin. The business grew, with Melba toast's remaining the bellwether.
        After Mr. Weil died in 1965, his wife became honorary chairman. Their son-in-law, Richard Kaufmann, became chairman. The business was sold to Arnold Bakeries in 1985. It is now a part of the Best Foods Baking Group of CPC International Inc.
        Mrs. Weil was the daughter of Leopold Cohn, founder of the America Sumatra Tobacco Company, and Sarah Liebman, whose family owned the New York brewery that produced Michelob beer. She attended Smith College.
        Surviving are two daughters, Nancy Gilbert of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Peggy Kaufmann of Sun City, Ariz., and Fort Lee, N.J.; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      