
       Evelyn K. Hill, who operated souvenir and food concessions at the Statue of Liberty for more than half a century, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. She was 88 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Evelyn K. Hill, who operated souvenir and food concessions at the Statue of Liberty for more than half a century, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. She was 88 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Mrs. Hill was born in Warsaw and came to New York as a teen-ager. There, she met and married Aaron G. Hill, a soldier who shortly after the end of World War I was stationed at Fort Wood, an Army post at the foot of the Statue of Liberty on what was then called Bedloes Island in New York Harbor.
        When her husband was discharged, the couple obtained a concession to sell trinkets to visitors. They lived in one of several dozen brick and clapboard Army houses clustered on the island, and sent their children to school on Governors Island by boat.
        In 1934, when the Department of the Interior took over what is now called Liberty Island, the several dozen houses were demolished and the Hill family moved to the Bronx.
        Tourists From Around the World
        Mrs. Hill's daughter, Charlotte Libauer, recalled yesterday that her parents commuted seven days a week by subway and boat to operate their souvenir and food stands. Mrs. Hill became conversant in several languages as she dealt with tourists from around the world.
        Her husband died in 1943, but Mrs. Hill continued to operate the concessions and similar ones at Sagamore Hill, the Theodore Roosevelt estate in Oyster Bay, L.I., and Fort McKinley in Baltimore, which, like the Statue of Liberty, are administered by the National Park Service.
        Until her final illness, Mrs. Hill was driven twice a week to Liberty Island to visit her concessions.
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in Baltimore, Mrs. Hill is survived by a son, James, of Manhasset, L.I.; two brothers, Jack and Ralph, both of Baltimore; four grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      