
       India Edwards, former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who worked to advance the role of women in politics, died Sunday at Fircrest Convalescent Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. She was 94 years old and lived in Greenbrea, Calif.
        India Edwards, former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who worked to advance the role of women in politics, died Sunday at Fircrest Convalescent Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. She was 94 years old and lived in Greenbrea, Calif.
        Mrs. Edwards was unanimously elected to the national committee in 1950. She was first associated with the committee as a volunteer in the 1944 Presidential campaign. From 1945 to 1947 she was executive secretary of the women's division, which she served as associate director before becoming the committee's vice chairwoman.
        Mrs. Edwards remained active in the Democratic Party for more than 30 years, through several generations of Democratic politicians, including Presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.
        For 22 years before she became active in politics she was on the staff of The Chicago Tribune, where she was society editor and woman's editor. She left the paper to marry her third husband, Herbert T. Edwards, a State Department official, and moved to Washington in 1942. Mr. Edwards died in the late 1970's.
        Campaigning With Truman
        Mrs. Edwards accompanied Mr. Truman, her political hero, on his 1948 campaign tour, where she repeatedly expressed her confidence in his victory at the polls.
        At one point the President turned to her and sighed. ''India,'' he said, ''sometimes I think there are only two people who believe I will win. You and me.'' ''That's enough,'' she replied. Largely because of Mrs. Edwards's influence, Mr. Truman appointed more women to top jobs than any preceding President. Among them were Eugenia Anderson as Ambassador to Denmark, Perle Mesta as Minister to Luxembourg, Ruth Bryan Rohde as an alternate delegate to the United Nations and Georgia Neese Clark as Treasurer of the United States.
        Explaining how she worked to increase the number of women in Federal jobs, Mrs. Edwards recalled: ''Sometimes I felt like a ghoul. I'd read the obits, and as soon as a man had died, I'd rush over to the White House and suggest a woman to replace him.''
        Mrs. Edwards, who was named for her mother and her grandmother, was born in Chicago and grew up in Nashville. Her memoirs, ''Pulling No Punches,'' were published by G. P. Putnam's in 1977.
        Mrs. Edward's daughter, India Moffett Williams, died in 1979, and her son, John Holbrook Moffett, died in World War II. She is survived by five grandchildren.
      