
       Nina Hyde, the fashion editor of The Washington Post and a pacesetter in the fields of style and fashion, died Friday night after a long bout with breast cancer at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She was 57 years old and lived in Washington.
        Nina Hyde, the fashion editor of The Washington Post and a pacesetter in the fields of style and fashion, died Friday night after a long bout with breast cancer at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She was 57 years old and lived in Washington.
        Since Mrs. Hyde was found to have cancer five years ago, she worked ardently to call attention to the disease, raising nearly $2 million for Georgetown University Medical Center, which established the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research last year.
        In March she organized a benefit at the new Chanel boutique at the Willard Hotel in Washington for which 350 people paid $350 a ticket. The evening raised more than $50,000 for the Nina Hyde Center and an equal amount for Look Good . . . Feel Better, a separate counseling program that helps women after chemotherapy and radiation treatments.
        As a reporter, Mrs. Hyde was known for covering fashion as intently as if she were covering a war, searching for the sociological significance of such trends as the development of the punk style in London.
        Style of Protest Movement
        Her article on that phenomenon helped draw attention at the end of the 1970's to the protest movement among the young. It also helped alert retailers to the London street scene.
        She traveled through Europe and the Far East for exhaustive studies of the history of silk and of wool, with her analysis appearing in National Geographic. She was also noted for her ''Ins and Outs'' column on New Year's Day, which covered political and social trends as well as fashion.
        She also conducted a lecture series at the Smithsonian Institution, with guests like the designers Issey Miyake, Norma Kamali and Sonia Rykiel.
        But she was not averse to offering mundane, sensible advice to women on how to dress. Short skirts look younger than long ones, she believed. Classic shapes are good investments, she said. She advised her readers to buy clothes on sale and at discount. She herself usually wore black dresses and very little makeup.
        The daughter of Dr. Harry A. Solomon, an internist, and his wife, Ruth, she was born in Manhattan and graduated from Smith College. One of two women accepted at the time for New York University's Law School, she dropped out to work for McCann-Erickson, the advertising agency, and the Maidenform Brassiere Company. Later she joined Women's Wear Daily as the corset and brassiere editor. In 1961, after marrying Lloyd Hyde, a real estate developer, she moved to Washington where she wrote a column, ''Hyde & Chic,'' for The Washington Daily News. After that newspaper's demise she joined The Washington Post, in 1972.
        Celebrities Honor Writer
        In 1986, when the Fashion Group decided to honor her at a formal dinner raising money for the group's' scholarship fund, she insisted that some proceeds go toward AIDS research. More than 800 people paid $150 to attend, including fashion designers like Bill Blass, Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren from New York, Carla Fendi and Rosita Missoni from Italy and Jacqueline de Ribes and Thierry Mugler from Paris.
        Fashion designers have been major contributors to the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research. Mr. Lauren was host at a cocktail party two years ago and donated $100,000 to get the fund started. Other supporters include Oscar de la Renta, Calvin Klein, Donna Karan, Issey Miyake, Christian Lacroix and Yves Saint Laurent and the Chanel company.
        Mrs. Hyde received the Eugenia Sheppard Award for outstanding fashion reporting by the Council of Fashion Designers of America in 1988 and she was made a Chevalier des Artes et Lettres in Paris last October.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Washington, and Andrea, of San Francisco; her mother, Ruth Solomon of New York; a brother, Howard Solomon of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Marquise Sue de Brantes, of St. Armand Lepypre, France.
        The funeral will be held at 11 A.M. Monday at the Washington Hebrew Congregation at Macomb Street and Massachusetts Avenue.
      