
       Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.
        Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.
        In 1979, when she was 83 and was being honored in an exhibition of 10 outstanding 20th-century female photographers, she told an interviewer: ''If it had come 20 years ago, I might have been able to appreciate it. Now it's a strain. I have too much else to do.''
        Mrs. Jacobi made her portraits in Germany and the United States over six decades. Her subjects included Albert Einstein, Eleanor Roosevelt, the Soviet director Konstantin Stanislavsky, the theologian and philosopher Martin Buber, the actor and singer Paul Robeson, the poets Marianne Moore, W. H. Auden and Robert Frost, the cellist Pablo Casals, and the writers W. E. B. DuBois and Thomas Mann.
        Miss Jacobi's portrait of the writer Theodore Dreiser is currently on exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, which has several Jacobi portraits in its collection, as do other museums including the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Fourth Generation in the Art
        Though best known for her portraits, between 1946 and 1955 she made a notable series of photo abstractions called ''Photogenics,'' experiments with light and shadow. She also photographed street scenes in New York, nature scenes in New Hampshire, and people and landscapes in the Soviet Union, Central Asia and her native Germany.
        Miss Jacobi was born in Thorn, West Prussia. Her great-grandfather, Samuel Jacobi, learned photography from Louis Daguerre, who gave his name to an early picture-making process. Her grandfather and father took up the camera in turn, and as a beginner she was encouraged to start out by making her own camera.
        In Berlin she eventually specialized, photographing personalities in the arts, theater and dance. She moved to New York in 1935 and opened a studio with her sister, Ruth. She moved to Deering in 1955 and continued working actively through the 1970's. In 1981 she donated her archives, consisting of 47,000 negatives, to the University of New Hampshire.
        She is survived by her sister, Ruth, who lives in a nursing home in Mission Viejo, Calif.
      