
       Pauline Frederick, a longtime radio and television news analyst of world affairs, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Lake Forest (Ill.) Hospital while visiting relatives. She was 84 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla.
        Pauline Frederick, a longtime radio and television news analyst of world affairs, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Lake Forest (Ill.) Hospital while visiting relatives. She was 84 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla.
        Miss Frederick achieved eminence when her field was virtually closed to women. She was NBC's correspondent at the United Nations for 21 years, and earlier covered it for ABC. After retiring from NBC in 1974, she commented on foreign affairs for National Public Radio.
        At all three networks, Miss Frederick had her own news programs, and she reported on political conventions, the United Nations and world affairs.
        She covered the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war criminals, conferences of the Big Four foreign ministers in New York and Paris, and China's entrance into the United Nations. She also reported on the Korean War, wars in the Middle East, efforts by the United Nations to restore peace in the Congo and on the Cuban missile affair.
        'I Think News Is News'
        Early in her career, Miss Frederick was assigned to cover what were regarded as women's stories.
        ''I never believed there was such a thing as 'women's news,' '' she said in 1956. ''I think news is news; that's all. One of my first assignments was covering a forum for women on the topic 'How to Get a Husband.' I don't think I learned anything from it, and I don't think the audience did either.''
        Soon afterward, though, came a turning point. In an emergency, she was asked to broadcast a meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in New York, and afterward specialized in international affairs and politics. In 1951, ABC's biography of Miss Frederick noted that she ''holds the unique distinction of being the only woman network news analyst and diplomatic correspondent in American radio.''
        Miss Frederick was born in Gallitzin, Pa., and grew up in Harrisburg, where she reported for several newspapers while still in high school. She considered law as a career before deciding to pursue journalism.
        She majored in political science at American Unversity in Washington, where she received a master's degree in international law.
        Despite her opinions on so-called women's news, she hit upon an effective way, given the times, to break into journalism: interviewing the wives of diplomats in Washington. She sold the articles to The Washington Star.
        Writing and Radio Interviews
        Miss Frederick wrote for the United States Daily, a predecessor of U.S. News and World Report, covering the State, War and Navy Departments. Then she wrote for the North American Newspaper Alliance, also doing occasional radio interviews for NBC before becoming a war correspondent for the newspaper alliance in 1945.
        Miss Frederick made her first network broadcast from Washington in 1939, her first overseas broadcast from China in 1945, and her first network television broadcast from the national political conventions in Philadelphia in 1948.
        In 1976, she became the first woman to moderate a Presidential debate, between Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter.
        She was also the first woman to be elected president of the United Nations Correspondents Association. Her many honors included a Paul White Award from the Radio-Television News Directors' Association in 1980 and a George Foster Peabody Award in 1954. In 1975, she was named to the Hall of Fame of Sigma Delta Chi, the journalists' society. She received honorary doctorate degrees in journalism, law and the humanities from 23 colleges and universities.
        Miss Frederick was married to Charles Robbins, a former reporter and managing editor at The Wall Street Journal, who died in August. There are no immediate survivors.
      