
       Jill Ireland, the British-born movie actress who chronicled her long battle against breast cancer in a best-selling book, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Malibu, Calif. She was 54 years old.
        Jill Ireland, the British-born movie actress who chronicled her long battle against breast cancer in a best-selling book, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Malibu, Calif. She was 54 years old.
        Ms. Ireland, the wife of the actor Charles Bronson, told the story of her diagnosis, mastectomy, chemotherapy and self-discovery in her 1987 book, ''Life Wish.'' In The New York Times Book Review, Alison Friesinger praised the book for its ''wonderfully human details'' and said that it was ''constantly enlivened by Ms. Ireland's grace and fortitude.''
        Ms. Ireland became a spokeswoman for the American Cancer Society, urging women with breast cancer to have self-respect and optimism. She also testified in 1988 about medical costs before a Congressional committee, and received the Medal of Courage from President Ronald Reagan.
        An Early Career Start
        Ms. Ireland began her film career at the age of 16, appearing in ''Oh Rosalinda,'' the first of 16 movies she made for the Rank Organization, a British production company. She also appeared in such films as ''Robbery Under Arms'' with her first husband, the actor David McCallum.
        After moving to Hollywood in 1962, Ms. Ireland appeared in many television series, including ''Ben Casey,'' ''Daniel Boone,'' ''Mannix,'' ''Star Trek,'' ''The Man From U.N.C.L.E.'' and ''Shane.'' She and Mr. McCallum were divorced in 1967 and a year later she married Charles Bronson. They starred together in many action-adventure movies, including ''Love and Bullets,'' ''Noon Till Three'' and ''Death Wish II.''
        Coping With Adversity
        Ms. Ireland also wrote of coping with adversity in her 1989 book, ''Life Lines.'' In it, she discussed her father's debilitating aphasia and the drug abuse of her adopted son, Jason, who subsequently died of a lethal drug combination. At the time of her death she was writing a third book, called ''Life Times.''
        Ms. Ireland is survived by her husband; her parents, Jack and Dorothy Ireland, of Sussex, England; her brother, John Ireland, of Toronto, Ontario, and six children: Paul and Valentine McCallum; Suzanne, Tony and Zulieka Bronson, and Katrina Holden, all of Los Angeles.
      