
       Lucy Boston, a leading writer of children's fiction, died on Friday at her home, the Manor, a 12th-century Norman house at Hemingford Grey in Huntingdonshire, England, which provided the inspiration and setting for her influential ''Green Knowe'' books. She was 97 years old.
        Lucy Boston, a leading writer of children's fiction, died on Friday at her home, the Manor, a 12th-century Norman house at Hemingford Grey in Huntingdonshire, England, which provided the inspiration and setting for her influential ''Green Knowe'' books. She was 97 years old.
        The nearly 20 works by Mrs. Boston, who began writing in her 60's, were noted for delicacy and imagination and for extolling nature's virtues. Most were books for juveniles. Her first book, ''The Children of Green Knowe,'' was praised in The New Yorker in 1955 as ''an uncommon tale with a gratifying blend of the eerie, the sinister and the familiar.''
        Mrs. Boston, an energetic woman who wrote during the cold months and gardened in the summers on her four-acre estate, suffered two strokes in March, according to her son, Peter, an architect in nearby Cambridge, who illustrated most of her books.
        Translated and Televised
        The works were widely used in schools, translated into many languages and televised by the BBC. ''The Children of Green Knowe'' received a Lewis Carroll Shelf Award in 1969, and ''A Stranger at Green Knowe'' earned the Carnegie Medal in Britain in 1962.
        The ''stranger'' of the title was an escaped gorilla befriended and hidden by an orphaned Chinese boy. ''The book encapsulates the best qualities of her work,'' said The Times of London, which went on to list ''a crystal-clear style of storytelling, a respect for the innocence and intelligence of the young reader, a serious treatment of supernatural phenomena, a regard for all natural life and a belief that a man-centered conception of the world is false and crippling.''
        In 1970, Mrs. Boston described her professional objectives thus: ''To remind adults of joy, now considered obsolete - and to encourage children to use and trust their senses for themselves at first hand - their ears, eyes and noses, their fingers and the soles of their feet, their skins and their breathing, their muscular joy and rhythms and heartbeats, their instinctive loves and pity and their awe of the unknown.''
        An Early Foe of Pollution
        The former Lucy Maria Wood was born on Dec. 10, 1892, in Southport, Lancashire, into a devout Methodist family. Her father was an engineer. She attended Somerville College at Oxford for a year and left to serve as a nurse in France in World War I. She married Harold Boston, then an officer in the Royal Flying Corps. They settled in Cheshire, where she became an early campaigner against industrial pollution.
        The couple were divorced in 1935, and Mrs. Boston studied painting on the Continent until she returned home in early 1939, on the eve of World War II. It was then that she bought the crumbling 12th-century manor, which she soon transformed into one of the oldest habitable homes in England.
        Surviving, besides her son, are two granddaughters and two stepgrandsons.
      