
       Rose Kushner, a vigorous and tenacious advocate for women with breast cancer, died Sunday of the disease. She was 60 years old and lived in Kensington, Md.
        Rose Kushner, a vigorous and tenacious advocate for women with breast cancer, died Sunday of the disease. She was 60 years old and lived in Kensington, Md.
        Ms. Kushner gained national recognition in 1975, when she wrote about her battle with breast cancer in a book, ''Why Me? What Every Woman Should Know About Breast Cancer to Save Her Life,'' published by W. B. Saunders Company in Philadelphia. She became an influential voice questioning standard medical procedures and was a leader in the movement to change the way the disease is treated.
        Many of the steps she advocated, especially less radical surgery, were at first rejected by leading breast cancer experts but are now common practice.
        As the founder and director of the Breast Cancer Advisory Center in Kensington, Ms. Kushner provided women with crucial information about their options when facing breast cancer.
        'Poetic Justice' in Award
        She was a member of the National Breast Cancer Advisory Board from 1980 to 1986 and was appointed last year to the American Cancer Society's Breast Cancer Task Force.
        This year, Ms. Kushner will be awarded the Society of Surgical Oncology's James Ewing Award for outstanding contributions by a lay person to the fight against cancer. This is ''poetic justice,'' said her husband, Harvey D. Kushner, because the society's members had ''booed her off their stage in 1975,'' after she had challenged their standard treatments.
        ''A lot of people heard about her and trusted her,'' said Dr. Bruce A. Chabner, director of the division of cancer treatment at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md.
        At the time of her death, Ms. Kushner was lobbying to encourage the Federal Government to require that health insurance companies cover mammograms.
        A psychologist and medical writer, Ms. Kushner turned single-mindedly to her breast cancer crusade in 1974, when she found a lump in her breast but refused to submit to the then routine ''one step'' procedure.
        In the mid-1970's, women would be anesthetized, the lump would be removed for biopsy on the spot and, if it was malignant, the breast would be removed. The patient would learn only upon awakening whether she had lost a breast. Ms. Kushner believed that women needed time after a cancer diagnosis to find the best surgeon to remove the breast.
        She railed against the one-step procedure and, after 18 telephone calls, finally found a general surgeon to remove just her lump. She later found a breast cancer specialist to remove her breast when the lump proved cancerous.
        Role in Changing Practice
        Now, the one-step procedure that Ms. Kushner abhorred is no longer done.
        ''She is probably the single most important person in leading to this major change in breast surgery,'' Dr. Chabner said. Although there was medical evidence that the one-step procedure was not advisable, Dr. Chabner added, ''I don't think the public would have accepted it or even known about it if she had not been so persistent in her efforts.''
        Later, Ms. Kushner became an advocate for increased use of lumpectomy, in which the malignant lump is removed but the rest of the breast is left.
        Ms. Kushner was born in Baltimore and graduated from the University of Maryland in 1972.
        She is survived by her husband, Harvey; her sons, Gantt of Silver Spring, Md., and Todd of Rockville, Md.; a daughter, Lesley Kushner of San Francisco, and her brothers, Isaac and Meyer Rehert of Baltimore and Paul Rehert of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      