
       Candy Jones, a 1940's cover girl whose career later encompassed teaching, broadcasting and writing, died of cancer yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Candy Jones, a 1940's cover girl whose career later encompassed teaching, broadcasting and writing, died of cancer yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Jones instructed young women in charm, beauty and fitness as the owner-operator of the Candy Jones Career Girls School for more than 20 years. Later she and her husband, Long John Nebel, were co-hosts in Manhattan on a late-night talk and interview show, first on Radio Station WOR and then on WMCA. When Mr. Nebel died in 1978, she continued the all-night show until last year.
        Candy Jones was born Jessica Arline Wilcox in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and educated in Atlantic City, where she won a beauty pageant at the age of 16. A trip to Manhattan followed, as did a modeling career and small roles in such 1940's Broadway musicals as ''Mexican Hayride'' and ''Polonaise.'' In World War II she headed a U.S.O. troupe called Cover Girls Abroad that entertained troops in the South Pacific.
        Author of a Dozen Books
        Tall, blond and with blue eyes, she gave beauty advice to women in more than a dozen books, including ''Make Your Name in Modeling and Television,'' ''Finishing Touches,'' ''Look Your Best,'' ''Between Us Girls'' and ''Candy Jones' Complete Book of Beauty and Fashion.'' Graduates of her school included Julia Meade and Sandra Dee.
        In radio and television, Miss Jones was the hostess of several daytime talk and interview programs and took part in commercials as a performer, teacher and consultant. She also judged and advised beauty pageants and fashion shows around the country and lectured at colleges.
        Before her marriage to Mr. Nebel, Miss Jones was married to Harry S. Conover, a model agency chief. The marriage ended in divorce.
        Surviving are two sons, Harry Conover of Sudbury, Mass., and Carey Conover of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      