
       Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago. She was 63 years old and had homes in New York, Southampton, L.I., and Boca Raton,
        Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago. She was 63 years old and had homes in New York, Southampton, L.I., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        Since it was formed in 1976, the Producer Circle - founded by Mrs. Richards with her husband, Martin Richards, Robert Fryer and James Cresson - won 22 Tony Awards. It produced such Broadway shows as ''On the Twentieth Century,'' ''Sweeney Todd,'' ''La Cage aux Folles,'' ''Crimes of the Heart,'' which won a Pulitzer Prize, and ''Grand Hotel.'' Its Off Broadway productions included ''March of the Falsettos'' and ''Mayor.'' Among the company's films were ''The Boys From Brazil,'' ''The Shining'' and ''Fort Apache, the Bronx.''
        Mrs. Richards was born on Aug. 20, 1926, in New Brunswick, N.J. She was the oldest daughter of J. Seward Johnson, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical fortune, and his first wife, Ruth Dill Johnson. She was a graduate of the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and the New York Academy of Dramatic Arts.
        Murder Plot Charged
        Mrs. Richards's first marriage, to William Ryan, a farmer and a newspaper editor, ended in divorce. She made headlines in 1976 when she charged that her second husband, Dr. Victor D'Arc, a New York psychiatrist, had hired men to have her murdered. The Bronx District Attorney's office opened an investigation in the case, but no charges were ever brought. The couple was divorced in 1978.
        Five years later, after the death of her father, Mrs. Richards and her brothers and sisters went to Surrogates Court in Manhattan to challenge his last will, which disinherited five of his six children and left the vast bulk of his $350 million estate to his third wife, Barbara Piasecka Johnson of Princeton. N.J. The case, the largest inheritance contest in the history of New York, went through 14 weeks of trial in 1986 before it was settled out of court, with the children dividing up about 12 percent of the total.
        In addition to her husband, Martin Richards of New York, Mrs. Richards is survived by two brothers, J. Seward Johnson Jr. of Princeton, and James L. Johnson of Pottersville, N.J.; three sisters, Diana Firestone of Waterford, Va., Elaine Wold of Boca Raton and Jennifer Duke of Jacksonville, Fla.; five sons, Eric Ryan of New York; Seward, Hillary and Quentin Ryan of Hilton Head, S.C., and Roderick Ryan, of Andover, N.J.; one daughter, Alice Ryan Marriott, also of Hilton Head; and 10 grandchildren.
      