
       Dovima, the model whom Richard Avedon called ''the most remarkable and unconventional beauty of her time,'' died of cancer on Thursday at her home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 63 years old.
        Dovima, the model whom Richard Avedon called ''the most remarkable and unconventional beauty of her time,'' died of cancer on Thursday at her home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 63 years old.
        Born Dorothy Virginia Margaret Juba in Jackson Heights, Queens, she constructed the name by which she was known from the initials of her given names. It was the name of an imaginary companion she invented as a child when she was bedridden with rheumatic fever.
        Along with Lisa Fonssagrives, Sonny Harnett, Dorean Leigh, Suzy Parker and Jean Patchett, Dovima personified the haughty, regal look of the 1950's. She left modeling in 1962, at the age of 35, saying, ''I didn't want to wait until the camera turned cruel.'' She had several small roles in television plays before retiring in 1975.
        ''She was the last of the great elegant, aristocratic beauties,'' said Mr. Avedon, who photographed them all. His picture of Dovima with elephants that appeared in Harper's Bazaar in 1955 is one of the most widely anthologized of all fashion photographs.
        Like Mona Lisa
        ''I never thought of myself as a beautiful woman,'' she told an interviewer four years ago. ''As a child, I was a gangly, skinny thing and I had this ugly front tooth that I broke when I was playing dress-up in my mother's clothes.''
        She was walking out of an Automat in 1949 with her first husband, Jack Golden, when a woman asked her if she had ever been a fashion model. The woman said she worked for Vogue magazine and invited her to have some test photographs made. The next day she was photographed by Irving Penn. She kept her mouth closed because of her bad tooth and the photo had a mysterious look that reminded those who saw it of the Mona Lisa. Within a year she was one of the most popular models at the Ford Model Agency, where she made $30 an hour when the other leading models made $25.
        ''I think she went up to $60,'' recalled Jerry Ford, who runs the agency with his wife, Eileen. ''She was the super-sophisticated model in a sophisticated time, definitely not the girl next door. After her came the young junior look from London with Jean Shrimpton, Twiggy and Penelope Tree, and fashion was off on another tack.''
        She was married three times and had a daughter, Allison, with her second husband, Alan Murray. Her last husband, West Hollingsworth, a bartender, died in 1985.
        In 1974 she moved to Fort Lauderdale to be near her parents, who had retired there. Her father, Stanley, had been a police officer in Manhattan. She worked at odd jobs, like selling cosmetics and serving as a hostess at the Two Guys Pizzeria in Fort Lauderdale.
        ''They're nice people,'' she said of her employers there. ''They treat me well. I'm the mascot on their softball team.''
        She is survived by her mother, Peggy Juba, and a brother, Stanley Juba, both of Fort Lauderdale.
      