
       Dr. Ora M. Rosen, a research scientist who was a leading investigator of the ways hormones and other factors control the development of cells, died of breast cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 55 years old.
        Dr. Ora M. Rosen, a research scientist who was a leading investigator of the ways hormones and other factors control the development of cells, died of breast cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 55 years old.
        Dr. Rosen held the Abby Rockefeller Mauze Chair of Experimental Therapeutics at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and, as an American Cancer Society research professor, headed the center's laboratory of developmental and membrane biology.
        In 1985 Dr. Rosen and colleagues at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, in collaboration with scientists at Genentech Inc., achieved a breakthrough in cell biology by cloning the gene for the human insulin receptor, the cell surface molecule to which insulin binds.
        By accomplishing the cloning they opened the way for detailed investigation of how the insulin receptor transmits signals from the surface of the cell to the interior. More recently Dr. Rosen and her associates had been applying a wide range of biochemical and genetic techniques to determine how the receptor molecule gets its message to the cell's metabolic machinery.
        Broader Look Into Insulin's Role
        Their work also led to a broader inquiry into the role of insulin in normal cell function and in diabetes and other disorders.
        Dr. Rosen, who was born in Manhattan, received an M.D. degree from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. After studying cell biology and biochemistry at New York University and at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, she joined the faculty at Einstein in 1966 and became chairwoman of the molecular pharmacology department. She joined the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering in 1984.
        Last year Dr. Rosen was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerard Hurwitz, also an American Cancer Society research professor at Sloan-Kettering; two sons, Isaac, of Manhattan, and Gideon, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and a brother, Ezra Mendelsohn of Jerusalem.
      