
       Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the image of American fashion, died at her home in Manhattan on Friday night.
        Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the image of American fashion, died at her home in Manhattan on Friday night.
        She died of breast cancer after a five-year battle with the disease, her business partner, Paul Cavaco, said. She was 48 years old.
        She was a founder and the president of Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising company. The agency was recognized for its award-winning campaigns for Bergdorf Goodman, the specialty store, and in recent years the company helped bring several American fashion designers to prominence, including Stephen Sprouse, Bill Robinson, Charlotte Neuville and Gordon Henderson.
        The agency now represents such designers as Gianni Versace, Ronaldus Shanask, Robert Lee Morris and Gordon Henderson. The agency will continue to operate under the direction of its remaining partners.
        Youngest Vogue Editor
        Ms. Keeble attended the Spence School and the Westover School and Briarcliff College. She began her career at Conde Nast publications in 1963 as a dress, suit and coat editor at Glamour magazine. When she went to work at Vogue under editor Diana Vreeland in 1966 at the age of 24, she was one of the youngest editors ever at the magazine.
        She was later fashion editor at Esquire from 1976 to 1977.
        In the early 1970's, after starting a successful jewelry company, she began work as a freelance fashion-photography stylist, helping to create the look and mood of photographs and television commercials. In 1976 she married Mr. Cavaco and formed a partnership, Keeble Cavaco Inc.
        Ms. Keeble's early association with photographers like Bruce Weber and Steven Meisel resulted in innovative advertising campaigns for such clients as Christian Dior, Geoffrey Beene and Calvin Klein. Mr. Klein's controversial jeans commercials with Brooke Shields were among the campaigns.
        After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka. Mr. Duka died in 1989.
        Fast-talking and irrepressibly enthusiastic, Ms. Keeble had reached the level in her business where she had become that rare public-relations executive who did not return journalists' phone calls.
        Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
        A memorial service is to be announced this week.
      