
       Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
        Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
        A spokesman for Johnson & Johnson said Mrs. Merrill's death resulted from injuries suffered in a fall earlier this year.
        She was born in 1897 in New Brunswick, N.J., to Robert Wood Johnson and Evangeline Brewster Armstrong. Her brothers were Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, who built the family-owned business into a large, diversified health care company, and J. Seward Johnson, whose will was the subject of prolonged litigation in Manhattan.
        After her graduation from Miss Spence's School in Manhattan in 1916, she became an instructor in first aid and then a lieutenant in the city's Red Cross Ambulance Corps. She was decorated by President Woodrow Wilson for her services in the Red Cross in World War I.
        A One-Woman War
        In the early 1920's she waged a one-woman war against the city government in Palm Beach, Fla., which refused to allow the wearing of new abbreviated women's bathing suits in public. She had a large number of handbills printed in protest and flew over the beach tossing them from the cockpit of a plane she had recently learned to fly.
        Her first husband was the conductor Leopold Stokowski, from whom she was divorced in 1938. She later married Prince Zalstem-Zalessky, a nobleman of Russian descent who died in 1965.
        In 1975 she married Charles Merrill. Before moving to North Carolina, the couple lived in Dublin, where they produced a quarterly magazine, The Arts in Ireland.
        In 1943, she was made a Fellow in Perpetuity of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. She was a patron of several museums, including the Peabody Museum of Yale University. She was a chairwoman of the speakers' bureau of the League of Nations.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Merrill is survived by two daughters, Lyuba Rhodes of Geneva and Dr. Sadja Greenwood of San Francisco, and five grandchildren.
      