
       Barbra Walz, a fashion photographer known as much for her informal pictures of designers as for their clothes, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 39 years old. The cause of death was breast cancer, her husband, Kevin, said.
        Barbra Walz, a fashion photographer known as much for her informal pictures of designers as for their clothes, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 39 years old. The cause of death was breast cancer, her husband, Kevin, said.
        ''She first came to see me at the beach about 15 years ago when my kids were little,'' Ralph Lauren recalled. ''She was a very sparkly girl, and her pictures were great. The ones she did of my family are hanging in my office today.''
        When she was starting as a photographer, after studying at Pratt Institute, Mrs. Walz heard Jill Krementz in a lecture at New York University tell how she had decided to concentrate on photographing authors.
        ''She then decided to specialize in fashion,'' Miss Krementz said. ''I guess I was her mentor. She turned out to be not only a superb technician, but a woman of wit and wisdom, a photographer with a warm generous heart.''
        The Entertaining Insight
        In the introduction to her first book, ''The Fashion Makers,'' published in 1978, when designers were achieving the star status of athletes and entertainers, Mrs. Walz described her approach. ''I always tried to bring out some part of their personality for the public to see,'' she wrote. ''I found a magic in the designers I photographed. I also became aware that the public was reaching to them on a new level and they had become celebrities.''
        She photographed her subjects in bathtubs, gymnasiums, dental offices and beauty parlors to capture the entertaining insight into their personalities. For a study of Elsa Peretti, Mrs. Waltz went to Spain and photographed the designer in her pool. Despite having lost a leg to cancer when she was 15, Mrs. Walz climbed a 12-foot ladder to find the right angle.
        Not all of her subjects were in the fashion field. ''Starring Mothers,'' about well-known mothers and their children, was published in 1987, after her own two daughters had been born. Mrs. Walz's subjects included Diane Feinstein, Patti Labelle, Sally Quinn and Carly Simon. It was considered one of the best photographic books of the year and was included in a group show by the International Center of Photography.
        Her subjects for 15 cover stories for The New York Times Magazine included E. L. Doctorow, Joseph Papp and Stephen Sondheim. Her photographs also appeared in GQ, Metropolitan Home, Parade, Rolling Stone and Town & Country.
        Surviving are her husband, a furniture and interior designer, their children, Jersey, and Addison, and her parents, Stanley and Pauline Turner, of Toms River, N.J.
      