
       Ina Balin, a film and stage actress whose adoption of three Vietnamese orphans was dramatized in a 1980 television movie in which she played herself, died yesterday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 52 years old and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Ina Balin, a film and stage actress whose adoption of three Vietnamese orphans was dramatized in a 1980 television movie in which she played herself, died yesterday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 52 years old and lived in Westport, Conn.
        A spokesman for the hospital said Ms. Balin died of complications of chronic lung disease.
        Ms. Balin became associated with a Saigon orphanage, An Lac, in 1970, when she visited it while touring with a U.S.O. show.
        Five years later, in the final days of the Vietnam War, she and an another American, Betty Tisdale, helped evacuate children from the orphanage to the United States, and Ms. Balin, who was unmarried, adopted three girls. Two were infants; the other was a 16-year-old who was hidden aboard an evacuation plane, the actress said, because she was half black and so faced a dismal future in South Vietnam.
        ''Adopting those children was the best thing I've ever done in my whole life,'' the Brooklyn-born actress told an interviewer shortly before her story was told on CBS in ''The Children of An Lac.'' ''It gives you a whole other perspective on life. It gets you involved with someone other than yourself, because children truly need you.''
        Praised in Broadway Debut
        Ms. Balin won critical praise for her Broadway debut in 1957 in ''Compulsion''; Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times said her portrayal of a convict's friend was ''tenderly moving.'' In 1959, she appeared in ''A Majority of One'' as the daughter of a housewife played by Gertrude Berg.
        That year Ms. Balin also made her screen debut as Anthony Quinn's daughter in ''The Black Orchid.'' Her other films included ''From the Terrace'' (1960), ''The Young Doctors'' (1961), ''The Comancheros'' (1961), ''The Patsy'' (1964), ''The Greatest Story Every Told'' (1965), ''Charro!'' (1969) and ''The Projectionist'' (1971).
        Ms. Balin, who traveled widely, was also a published photographer and was the co-owner of the Balin-Traube Art Gallery in New York, which operated on East 74th Street for three years in the early 1960's.
        She is survived by her father, Sam Rosenberg of Hallandale, Fla; her daughters, Ba-Nhi Mai and Kim Thuy, both of Westport, and Nguyet Baty of Berlin; a brother, Richard Balin of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow at 11 A.M. at the Spear Funeral Home, 39 South Benson Road, Fairfield, Conn.
      