
       June Christy, whose wistful, foggy alto epitomized ''cool'' jazz singing in the 1940's and 50's, died Thursday at the age of 64 at her home in Los Angeles.
        June Christy, whose wistful, foggy alto epitomized ''cool'' jazz singing in the 1940's and 50's, died Thursday at the age of 64 at her home in Los Angeles.
        The cause of death was complications from kidney failure, said her husband, Bob Cooper, whom she met when he was a saxophonist for the Stan Kenton Orchestra, the band with which Miss Christy first gained great popularity in 1945.
        Miss Christy, named Shirley Luster at her birth in Springfield, Ill., grew up in nearby Decatur and at the age of 13 began singing with a local band led by Bill Oetyel. After graduating from high school, she moved to Chicago, where she sang with society bands. Finding that her tastes leaned to jazz, she joined a band led by Boyd Raeburn and then one led by Benny Strong.
        Named Top Vocalist Four Times
        Anita O'Day, then the lead singer for the Kenton band, later recalled hearing Miss Christy at a Chicago club called the Three Deuces and recommending her to Mr. Kenton as Miss O'Day's replacement.
        Among the band's three most famous lead singers, who also included Chris Connor, Miss Christy worked with the band the longest, six years. Four times from 1946 to 1950 she was chosen ''best female vocalist with a big band'' in Down Beat's annual poll.
        Miss Christy's first recording with the Kenton band, ''Tampico,'' was released in May 1945 and sold a million copies. Several other hit records with the band followed, including ''It's Been a Long, Long Time'' (1945), ''Shoo-Fly Pie and Apple Pan Dowdy'' (1946) and ''Lonely Woman'' (1948).
        Miss Christy lasted with the band through several complete changes of lineup, finally leaving in 1951, although she and the band reunited on occasion afterward. As a solo artist for Capitol Records, she recorded 18 post-Kenton albums. The records, many of them arranged by Pete Rugolo, continued to focus on Mr. Kenton's modernist jazz band sound.
        A Wistful 'Something Cool'
        Her signature song as a soloist was Bill Barnes's extended, moody soliloquy, ''Something Cool,'' in which her wistful, slightly husky voice, with its very faint vibrato, delivered the dramatic monologue of a boozy, self-deluded barfly. She first recorded it in 1953, and two years later it became the title track of an album, arranged and conducted by Mr. Rugolo, that is widely regarded as a pop-jazz classic. In the early 1960's, Miss Christy and Mr. Rugolo re-created the album, note for note, in stereophonic sound. The singer called the record ''the only thing I've recorded that I'm not unhappy with.''
        ''Something Cool'' is the only Christy solo album that remains in print.
        In the late 1950's, Miss Christy toured with Ted Heath and with the Kenton band. In the late 1960's, she went into semi-retirement and in 1972 reunited once more with the Kenton band at the Newport Jazz Festival in New York City.
        In addition to Mr. Cooper, her husband, she is survived by their daughter, Shay Cooper of Long Beach, Calif., and a brother, Jack Luster of Edwardsville, Ill.
      