
       Dorothy W. Weeks, a physicist whose professional career spanned nearly six decades, died of a stroke on Monday at Newton Wellesley Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 97 years old and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        Dorothy W. Weeks, a physicist whose professional career spanned nearly six decades, died of a stroke on Monday at Newton Wellesley Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 97 years old and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        From 1930 to 1956, except for two years in World War II, Dr. Weeks was a professor and head of the physics department at Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa. For six years after her retirement from Wilson she coordinated a program at the United States Army's arsenal at Watertown, Mass., that developed radiological shielding materials for use against nuclear weapons, neutrons and gamma rays.
        Leaving the Army's Materials Research Agency in 1964, she became a spectroscopist, studying solar satellites at the Harvard College Observatory. She retired in 1976 at the age of 83.
        Dr. Weeks, a native of Philadelphia and a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Wellesley College, went to work in 1917 as an assistant examiner for the United States Patent Office and, concurrently, an assistant at the National Bureau of Standards. From 1920 to 1924, while studying and teaching physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she earned her master's degree.
        In 1924 she began a new, if short-lived, career in retailing. Obtaining a second master's degree, from the Prince School of Business at Simmons College, she became an employment supervisor for Jordan Marsh, the Boston department store.
        In 1928 she returned to academic life, teaching physics at Wellesley while earning her Ph.D. in mathematics at M.I.T. in 1930. She was the first woman to earn a mathematics Ph.D. at the university.
        From 1943 to 1945, on leave from Wilson College, she was a technical aide at the Federal Government's Office of Scientific Research and Development. In 1949 and 1950, back at Wilson, she was a Guggenheim Fellow.
        Dr. Weeks is survived by a sister, Ruth Davis of Washington.
      