
       Eleanor Clark French, a writer, editor and former vice chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, died on Monday in Paoli, Pa. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Eleanor Clark French, a writer, editor and former vice chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, died on Monday in Paoli, Pa. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Her stepson, John French Jr., said she had suffered a stroke while visiting relatives in the Philadelphia area.
        Mrs. French was born into Philadelphia's Main Line society but spent most of her adult life in New York, where she was active in political causes and civic affairs. Although she had not held party office in the last decade, she remained influential in Democratic affairs until her death.
        Last year Mrs. French devoted much of her energy to securing revision of the New York City Charter. As chairwoman of the charter committee of the Women's City Club, she lobbied for the changes that were adopted by the voters last November.
        Helped Nazi Victims
        Earlier this year the Unitarian Universalist Services Committee honored Mrs. French for her work in the aftermath of World War II, when she directed two rest homes in France operated by the church organization for survivors of Nazi concentration camps.
        Mrs. French was most prominently in the public eye in 1964 when she tried unsuccessfully to wrest a seat in the House of Representatives from John V. Lindsay. As the Democratic-Liberal candidate in the ''Silk Stocking'' district on Manhattan's East Side, she waged a vigorous campaign but lost, receiving less than 25 percent of the vote.
        Two years earlier she had been appointed New York City's first Commissioner to the United Nations, a post she held until her race for Congress.
        Mrs. French was a delegate to five Democratic National Conventions, from 1964 through 1980, and was vice chairwoman of the state party from 1957 to 1960.
        She attended the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., which she found progressive. But at 14, as the president of her class, she complained to the headmistress that because the school was all white she was not being prepared for the world in which she was going to live. She quoted the reply: ''My dear Ellie, we're not giving you the opportunity to make friends with Democrats either.''
        A Stint as a Teacher
        Mrs. French, who later became a member of the New York City Commission on Intergroup Relations, now the Commission on Human Rights, studied at the Sorbonne and at Harvard and Columbia.
        In 1932, after her father, Herbert Lincoln Clark, a stockbroker, lost a fortune in the Depression, she returned to Shipley as a teacher and later became a supervisor at the Episcopal School in Overbrook, Pa.
        In World War II she served in the Office of Inter-American Affairs in Washington. In 1949, after returning from France, she joined the staff of The New York Times and was named women's news editor. She resigned in 1955 to become more active in politics, and the following year she ran for the State Senate but lost. In 1957 she was appointed vice chairwoman of the Democratic State Committee to fill a vacancy, and in 1958 she won election to the post.
        But two years later, in a split with the party's top leadership, she was out, charging that she and other women had not been given a real voice in Democratic affairs in the state.
        Family members said yesterday that last Thursday Mrs. French had been pleased to stand in line for two hours for the chance to meet Nelson Mandela during his New York visit.
        Mrs. French's husband, John, whom she married in 1950, died in 1984. Surviving are two stepsons, John Jr., of Manhattan, and Roberts, of Amherst, Mass., and a stepdaughter, Mary Moore of Cheyenne, Wyo.
        A funeral service will be held on Monday at 11 A.M. at All Souls Unitarian Church, Lexington Aveue at 80th Street.
      