
       Brenda Lansdown, a retired professor of education who introduced new teaching methods in China, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. She was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause of death was pneumonia, said Harriet Harvey, a friend.
        Brenda Lansdown, a retired professor of education who introduced new teaching methods in China, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. She was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause of death was pneumonia, said Harriet Harvey, a friend.
        In the 1940's Ms. Lansdown taught at the Dalton School and the City and Country School in Manhattan, where she developed a ''hands-on'' method of teaching science to elementary and high school students, known as the investigative colloquium method. She later became a professor of education at Brooklyn College and also taught at Hunter College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
        In 1974, at the age of 70, she began the study of Mandarin, and in 1979 was invited to Peking Normal University to introduce her teaching method to China. The method differs sharply from traditionial Chinese pedagogy, in which rote memorization is emphasized over creative thinking and problem solving.
        Translated Into Chinese
        Her book, ''Teaching Elementary Science Through Investigation and Colloquium,'' first published in 1971, was translated into Chinese, and more than 30,000 copies have been distributed to educators in China. Videotapes of her demonstration classes have been beamed by satellite to schools in the provinces.
        In the last six years Ms. Lansdown raised funds in the United States for an experimental work-study cooperative school in a remote area of China that uses hands-on principles to teach Chinese farmers animal husbandry, agriculture and forestry.
        Ms. Lansdown, a native of London, attended St. Paul's School there and graduated from Lausanne University in Switzerland.
        She is survived by a brother, Merton, of Dorset, England.
      