
       Lois Moran Young, a star of Hollywood's silent films and Broadway musicals who began charming audiences as a dancer at the Paris Opera at the age of 13, died Friday at the Kachina Point Health Center, a nursing home in Sedona, Ariz., near Flagstaff. She was 81 years old and lived in Sedona.
        Lois Moran Young, a star of Hollywood's silent films and Broadway musicals who began charming audiences as a dancer at the Paris Opera at the age of 13, died Friday at the Kachina Point Health Center, a nursing home in Sedona, Ariz., near Flagstaff. She was 81 years old and lived in Sedona.
        She had been suffering from cancer, said her son, Timothy.
        Known as Lois Moran throughout her career, she made her first film, in France, at the age of 14 and gained fame the next year when she starred with Ronald Colman in Samuel Goldwyn's ''Stella Dallas.''
        In her film career of more than two dozen movies, Miss Moran combined an artist's versatility with romantic appeal. F. Scott Fitzgerald was said to have based the character Rosemary on her when he wrote ''Tender Is the Night.''
        By the age of 20, she had already made four movies for Fox Studios, where she was under long-term contract. But she played leading roles for other studios as well, among them parts in ''Padlocked,'' ''Reckless Lady,'' ''The Road to Mandalay,'' ''Don't Marry,'' ''Mammy'' and ''The Men in Her Life.''
        In the early 1930's, after studying singing, she moved to musicals, making her Broadway debut in ''This Is New York.'' She was the leading woman in George Kaufman's satire ''Of Thee I Sing'' and also starred for four years in ''Let 'Em Eat Cake.''
        But in 1935, after marrying Col. Clarence M. Young, an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Miss Moran slowed the pace of her career. She retired permanently in 1954 after co-starring with Robert Preston in the television series ''Waterfront.''
        Miss Moran was born in Pittsburgh but, while still an infant, moved to Paris with her mother, a physician's widow. There she joined the Paris Opera Corps de Ballet, where she was spotted by a director who cast her in a movie.
        She returned to the United States and starred as Belle Bennett's daughter in ''Stella Dallas.'' After that film's success, the offers poured in. She did one or two films at each of the major studios before signing her long-term contract with Fox.
        For some time after her retirement, she and her husband lived and traveled throughout the country. But when Mr. Young retired as a vice president of Pan American World Airways more than 20 years ago, the couple moved permanently to Sedona.
        Miss Moran's only immediate survivor is her son, who lives in Sedona.
      