
       Marion Rice Hart, a sportswoman and author who sailed a ketch around the world and in her later years made seven solo flights across the Atlantic, the last at 83 years old, died on Monday. She was 98 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif. She previously lived in Washington and Manhattan.
        Marion Rice Hart, a sportswoman and author who sailed a ketch around the world and in her later years made seven solo flights across the Atlantic, the last at 83 years old, died on Monday. She was 98 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif. She previously lived in Washington and Manhattan.
        She died of pneumonia at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, said her niece, Dorothy Rice.
        Mrs. Hart was 54 years old when she learned to fly and was 70 when in 1962 she flew a single-engine Beechcraft Bonanza nonstop across the Atlantic, from Newfoundland to Ireland.
        A little fatigued from the 2,500-mile flight, which she made with a navigator, she was reported to have walked into the airport lounge upon her arrival, downed a large glass of whisky and said, ''Now I feel better.''
        Flew Alone Until 87
        Mrs. Hart subsequently made seven solo flights across the Atlantic and flew all over the United States, Europe, Asia, Africa and South America. She flew alone until she was 87, having logged more than 5,000 hours in her three decades as an aviator. In 1976 she received the highly prized annual Harmon International Trophy ''for her consistently outstanding performance as a private pilot operating small aircraft on a global scale.''
        Before her flying career, Mrs. Hart had captained a 72-foot ketch around the world, most of the way alone. After the three-year voyage, which ended in 1939, she became a ham radio operator and served in the Army Signal Corps throughout World War II.
        She wrote many magazine articles for sports publications, and was the author of three books: ''I Fly As I Please'' (Vanguard, 1953), a humorous account of her adventures in the air; ''How to Navigate Today'' (Cornell Maritime Press, 1940), a celestial guide to navigation now in its sixth edition, and ''Who Called That Lady a Skipper?'' (Vanguard Press, 1938), an account of her navigations around the world.
        Mrs. Hart was born in London, the daughter of a corporation lawyer. In 1913 she became the first woman to graduate in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She later received a master's degree in geology from Columbia University.
        Her marriage to Arthur Hart, a mining engineer, ended in divorce.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      