
       Margaret Lockwood, an actress who became one of the most popular figures in British films of the late 1940's, died on Sunday. She was 73 years old.
        Margaret Lockwood, an actress who became one of the most popular figures in British films of the late 1940's, died on Sunday. She was 73 years old.
        Miss Lockwood's family would not disclose the cause of death.
        She was born in Karachi, Pakistan, on Sept. 15, 1916, and sent to England to be educated. When she was 12 years old, she had her first stage role, as a fairy in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.''
        She was trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, and made her first film, ''The Amateur Gentleman,'' when she was 19.
        Of Fright and Espionage
        Miss Lockwood first came to prominence as the frightened heroine in Alfred Hitchcock's 1938 film ''The Lady Vanishes,'' in which she played a young woman who becomes embroiled in a sinister conspiracy involving an abduction.
        Her other notable films include the 1940 ''Night Train,'' directed by Carol Reed, in which she co-starred with Rex Harrison in a tale of World War II espionage; ''The Stars Look Down'' (1941), another Reed film, about a catastrophe in an English mining town; ''The Man in Gray'' (1943), a Regency period melodrama, and the 1945 hit ''The Wicked Lady,'' another period piece in which she played an aristocrat who joins a highwayman (James Mason) in his life of crime.
        In 2 TV Series
        By 1957, she had acted in more than 40 films. Her last film appearance was in 1976, in a cameo role in ''The Slipper and the Rose.''
        She was featured in the popular 1960's British television series ''The Flying Swan,'' co-starring her daughter, Julia Lockwood, and in a series called ''Justice'' in the 1970's.
        Her father, a railway clerk in the British colonial service in India, had little contact with her. Her mother disapproved of her first love, Rupert Leon, a London commodities clerk, and they married in secret. They were divorced during World War II.
        She is survived by her daughter.
      