
       Laura Perls, a founder of the Gestalt school of psychotherapy, died Friday in Pforzheim, West Germany. She was 84 years old.
        Laura Perls, a founder of the Gestalt school of psychotherapy, died Friday in Pforzheim, West Germany. She was 84 years old.
        She died of complications from a thyroid condition, said Daniel Rosenblatt, a Gestalt therapist in Manhattan who was a close friend.
        In the late 1940's and 1950's, Mrs. Perls collaborated with her husband, Fritz Perls, to develop the theory and technique of Gestalt therapy. The therapy is an eclectic blend borrowing from such sources as the work of Freud and Wilhelm Reich, psychodrama, existentialism and a German theory of perception of the 1930's called gestalt.
        Fritz Perls, a psychiatrist, was the better-known and more flamboyant of the pair, acting as teacher in residence at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif., during the 1960's heyday of the human potential movement it expounded, and traveling the world to train therapists. He died in 1970.
        A Turn to the Present
        But among many Gestalt therapists, Laura Perls was seen as the mainstay of the movement, heading the major Gestalt training institute in New York City for almost 40 years, and an unacknowledged contributor to the early books by her husband that formulated the approach.
        Gestalt therapy was one of the first psychotherapies to break with the traditional methods of psychoanalysis, which focused on the traumas of early life, and turn the focus on a person's emotions and perceptions at the present.
        While the method met with intense opposition and criticism from analysts in its early days, Gestalt therapy is now recognized as a major approach to treating emotional problems, and its methods are widely employed even among therapists of other schools.
        Some techniques that Gestalt therapists use derive from theater and movement. For instance, the therapy holds that each element in a patient's dream symbolizes an aspect of the self. In one technique, someone who dreamed about talking to a cigar-smoking conductor on a train might enact being, in turn, the cigar, the conductor and even the train.
        Laura Perls, whose given name was Lore Posner, was born in 1905, the daughter of a prosperous merchant, in Pforzheim. She had returned to her birthplace earlier this year to be near her daughter, Renate Perls.
        Studied With Theologians
        As a student in Germany, Mrs. Perls took courses with the theologians Paul Tillich and Martin Buber and studied the work of the psychologists who had formed a new gestalt school, though not a method of treatment. These psychologists included Kurt Goldstein. A student of movement and dance as well as an accomplished pianist, Mrs. Perls became a psychoanalyst in Germany.
        But she shared with her husband a dissatisfaction with Freudian orthodoxy that led them to the innovations that developed into Gestalt therapy. Many of the early developments have been attributed to her, including having the patient sit up and face the therapist rather than lying down as is traditional in psychoanalysis.
        Laura and Fritz Perls met as students in Frankfurt and were married in 1930. They left Germany for South Africa in 1933 to escape the rise of fascism. Coming to America in 1948, they settled in New York City, where they founded the New York Institute for Gestalt Therapy in 1952. Mrs. Perls headed the institute until recent years.
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      