
       Peggy Mann Houlton, the author of more than 35 books and many magazine articles, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Peggy Mann Houlton, the author of more than 35 books and many magazine articles, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Houlton died of breast cancer, her family said.
        At a Congressional reception in 1985, Mrs. Houlton, who wrote under her maiden name, Peggy Mann, was honored as one of the nation's foremost authors of books and articles about preventing drug abuse. Her ''Marijuana Alert'' (1985), about drug-abuse prevention for adults, was based on an article she wrote for the Reader's Digest in 1979.
        Many of Mrs. Houlton's books were for teen-agers and younger children. These include ''Arrive Alive: How to Keep Drunk and Drugged Drivers Off the Road'' and ''Twelve Is Too Old,'' a novel about tobacco and marijuana.
        Mrs. Houlton was born in Manhattan, and was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin. Her first novel for adults, ''A Room in Paris,'' which was published in 1955, is about the lives and loves of a young American art student in France.
        A TV Special
        Some of her other books include ''Golda,'' a biography of Golda Meir, the former Prime Minister of Israel; ''The Last Escape,'' about a woman's mission to smuggle Jews out of Nazi-occupied Europe into Palestine; ''My Dad Lives in a Downtown Hotel,'' and ''The Street of the Flower Boxes.'' ''The Street of the Flower Boxes'' inspired an NBC television special in the 1970's that won a Peabody Award and that inspired a movement for neighborhood beautification.
        The National Federation of Parents for Drug-Free Youth recently established the Peggy Mann Scholarship Award for Outstanding Youth Involved in Substance-Use Prevention. Beginning next year, annual $1,000 college scholarships are to be given to students from each of the 50 states, Guam and Puerto Rico who have made distinguished contributions to their community and school-based drug-prevention programs.
        She is survived by her husband, William, and two daughters, Jenny and Betsy Houlton, all of New York City and Fair Harbor, L.I.; a brother, John Mann of Conesus, N.Y., and her mother, Edna Mann of New York City.
        Funeral services are to be held today at 10:30 A.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street.
      