
       Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
        Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
        She died of pancreatic cancer, her father said, adding that she had been under treatment for a year at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
        Ms. McCarthy, who was born in Washington, graduated from Radcliffe College, attended the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism and received her law degree from New York University. She began to teach at Yale in 1982 as a supervising attorney and lecturer in clinical studies after a brief period as a public defender in Washington.
        A Legal Clinic
        As co-director of the legal clinic, training students in the practice of law, she specialized in public-interest disputes, individual rights and immigration cases.
        Ms. McCarthy was a product of the 1960's civil-rights and antiwar campaigns. Opposed to violence, she turned to politics when the marches on the Pentagon and elsewhere deteriorated into street clashes.
        She skipped a semester in her sophomore year at Radcliffe in 1968 to enlist in the Presidential campaign of Mr. McCarthy. With her mother, Abigail, and other family members, she scoured campuses and the country for votes for the former Minnesota Democratic Senator.
        Because of her academic record, she was nevertheless permitted to graduate with her class in 1969. She later did advanced legal studies at Georgetown Law School.
        Beside her parents, Ms. McCarthy is survived by two sisters, Ellen, of Washington, and Margaret, of Boston, and a brother, Michael, of Seattle.
      