
       Sara Seegar, an actress who appeared on and off Broadway, in films and on television, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old and lived at Stone Meadows, Newtown, Pa., with her husband, the actor Ezra Stone, who said she died of a cerebral hemorrhage.
        Sara Seegar, an actress who appeared on and off Broadway, in films and on television, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old and lived at Stone Meadows, Newtown, Pa., with her husband, the actor Ezra Stone, who said she died of a cerebral hemorrhage.
        Miss Seegar made her Broadway debut in 1940 in ''Horse Fever,'' a farce that starred Mr. Stone and folded after three weeks. ''The show was a terrible flop,'' Mr. Stone said later. ''We looked good to each other by comparison.'' Miss Seegar said, ''Misery loves company.'' They were married two years later.
        Her career began in London, where she appeared in 1935 in ''Three Men on a Horse.'' She also had roles in four British films including ''Dead Men Tell No Tales.'' All her British film roles were of American women; the British labor office at the time prohibited a foreigner playing a role that could be filled by a British citizen.
        From the 1940's through the 1960's Miss Seegar appeared in American plays including ''At War With the Army'' with Gary Merrill, directed by Mr. Stone on Broadway in 1949, and Sheridan's ''School for Scandal'' with Patricia Neal in 1953 and ''Ernest in Love,'' a musical based on Oscar Wilde's ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' in 1960, both off Broadway.
        Mrs. Wilson on Television
        On radio Miss Seegar played several roles over six years in her husband's popular serial, ''The Aldrich Family.'' On television she played Mrs. Wilson in ''Dennis the Menace,'' the cookie-baking wife of the curmudgeon next door.
        For nearly 25 years Miss Seegar toured under the auspices of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the American College Theater Festival and the United States Army. In 1983 she and Mr. Stone produced and staged ''Sweet Land,'' a pageant celebrating the 300th anniversary of their Bucks County community that enlisted the talents of 300 of their neighbors.
        Miss Seegar was born in Greentown, Ind., attended school in London and Paris, went to Hollywood High and graduated with honors in drama from Los Angeles Community College.
        In addition to Mr. Stone, she is survived by their son Joseph, of Newtown; a daughter, Francine, of Wallingford, England; two sisters, Dorothy Hatch of Washington and Miriam Whelan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      