
       Mary Shaw Shorb, a microbiologist whose research led to the discovery of vitamin B12 in 1947, died Saturday at Greater Laurel-Beltsville Hospital in Maryland.
        Mary Shaw Shorb, a microbiologist whose research led to the discovery of vitamin B12 in 1947, died Saturday at Greater Laurel-Beltsville Hospital in Maryland.
        She was 83 years old and lived in Beltsville. The hospital said she died of a kidney ailment.
        Dr. Shorb, a research professor emerita of poultry husbandry at the University of Maryland, was working at the Maryland Agricultural Experimental Station in the mid-1940's in search of a microorganism that would be useful in treating pernicious anemia, a disease that was fatal until the 1920's, when a liver extract was developed to treat it.
        Bacterium Discovered
        Since the extract had to be injected in a costly and painful process, scientists sought an alternative. Dr. Shorb found a bacterium, Lactobacillus lactis Dorner, that was present in tomato juice and liver extract, making possible the creation of the vitamin.
        Securing an unpaid research position at the University of Maryland, she worked with scientists of Merck & Company to develop the substance that was marketed as vitamin B12.
        In 1949 she was made a research professor at the university, a post she held until she retired in 1972.
        Dr. Shorb, a native of Wahpeton, N.D., held a bachelor's degree from the College of Idaho and a doctorate in immunology from Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, where she was a researcher from 1929 to 1932.
        After taking time off to raise a family, she returned to research in 1942 with the Agriculture Department's Bureau of Human Nutrition and later with the Dairy Industry Bureau. In 1946 she was given the research position at the University of Maryland.
        Dr. Shorb is survived by her husband, Doyf; a son, Alan, who lives in Japan; two daughters, Carole Shorb and Barbara Breeden, both of Beltsville; a sister, Margaret Brownfield of Boise, Idaho; seven grandchldren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      