
       Pearl Bailey was remembered at her funeral today as an extraordinary entertainer and a woman who loved life and everyone she met.
        Pearl Bailey was remembered at her funeral today as an extraordinary entertainer and a woman who loved life and everyone she met.
        ''Pearl was love, pure and simple love,'' Cab Calloway said. ''I mean it from my heart and soul, that Pearl Bailey was something you'll never see again.'' Mr. Calloway, who was a pallbearer, co-starred with Miss Bailey in the all-black production of ''Hello, Dolly!,'' which brought her a Tony Award.
        About 2,000 people filled the Deliverance Evangelistic Church while scores waited outside in cool, overcast weather. The singer was dressed in blue and adorned with a string of pearls. She had a red rose in her hand.
        Flowers from Lena Horne and Ella Fitzgerald were among those displayed in the church, but for the most part the mourners were friends, family and ordinary people.
        Miss Bailey, who spent much of her childhood in Philadelphia, died here las Friday at the age of 72, apparently of a heart attack.
        The funeral service consisted of hymns, poetry and fond recollections.
        'Plain and Simple'
        ''If you knew Miss Bailey, she would like it to be plain and simple, not a lot of fanfare,'' the Rev. Timothy Jones, assistant pastor at the church, told the gathering.
        ''She loved everybody,'' said her husband of 38 years, jazz drummer Louis Bellson Jr. ''I have a feeling if she knew we were making all this fuss, she'd say, 'Louie, What are you doing?'
        ''They will remember her as a great entertaineer. She was a person of love. She believed 'show business' was 'show love.' ''
        Rabbi Harold S. White, a lecturer at Georgetown University where Miss Bailey earned a degree in theology, said she ''craved privacy with her beloved Louie.''
        ''She said of herself, 'What you see is what you get,' '' he continued. ''She chided name-droppers.''
        After the service, Miss Bailey was buried at Rolling Green Memorial Park in nearby West Chester, where her mother and brother are buried.
        Miss Bailey, who lived in Lake Havasu City, Ariz., collapsed in her hotel room, where she was recovering from knee surgery. Doctors said the surgery apparently was not a factor.
      