
       Lucy Goldschmidt Moses, a philanthropist, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103 years old.
        Lucy Goldschmidt Moses, a philanthropist, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103 years old.
        Mrs. Moses's philanthropic interests largely reflected the activities of her husband, Henry L. Moses, whom she married in 1914. A lawyer and financier, he was president of Montefiore Hospital for many years. After his death in 1961 she established the Henry L. Moses Research Institute at the hospital.
        Mrs. Moses was born in New York. As a child she was accompanied by a governess when she went skating in Central Park or took walks. Later, as a young woman beginning a 40-year career as a volunteer in settlement-house work, she cared for the children of poor families.
        Center at Mt. Sinai
        Beginning in the 20's, she also worked as a volunteer at Montefiore, first in the wards and later in the epilepsy clinic.
        She donated tens of millions of dollars to philanthropy, a major part going to the medical field. In addition to gifts to Montefiore, she established the Lucy G. Moses Cardiothoracic Center, an advanced research and training institution, at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, She also contributed to health programs in Burma, Israel and South Korea. After her husband's death, she became president of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, which the couple established in 1942 to support education, music and the arts.
        Mrs. Moses contributed for projects like the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and providing a wheelchair lift and other equipment for the handicapped at Carnegie Hall. She donated to New York University for studies in Egyptian art. Columbia University also received gifts for its housing program and a study hall in the Law School.
        Mrs. Moses was a leading supporter of the opera and Lincoln Center. In 1983 she received the first Frederick Law Olmstead award for helping to restore the Bow Bridge over the Central Park Lake. ''They called me the Florence Nightingale of the trees,'' Mrs. Moses said at the time. ''I've also been called Mother of the Park. I've had such fun.''
        Surviving are a daughter, Nancy Osserman of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
        A service will be held on Monday at 2 P.M. at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street.
      