
       Marya Mannes, an author, journalist and critic, died Thursday at Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. She was 85 years old.
        Marya Mannes, an author, journalist and critic, died Thursday at Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. She was 85 years old.
        Her son, David R. J. Blow, said she had died after suffering a series of strokes this week at the hospital, a geriatric facility that she entered in March. She had lived in various residences for the elderly, mainly in California, since 1983, after residing most of her earlier life in Manhattan.
        The versatile Ms. Mannes was a social critic and a critic of radio, television and theater. She worked as a staff writer for the magazine The Reporter from 1952 to 1963. Her writing there included articles, essays and reviews. She even wrote satirical verse, under the pen name ''Sec.''
        She did much writing over the years for The New Yorker and for other publications ranging from McCalls to The New York Times, and was the author of several books.
        More Than Outspoken
        Ms. Mannes's 1958 collection of essays - largely from The Reporter -was contentiously titled ''More in Anger: Some Opinions, Uncensored and Unteleprompted.'' William du Bois, reviewing it in The New York Times, said that ''to call these pages outspoken is putting things mildly.'' The book, he continued, ''is guaranteed to shock you into awareness of its author as an original thinker.''
        ''Whether she is writing of the Rheingold girls or the boys in Washington,'' he observed, ''of social-minded mothers and their child victims, of the world of Miltown or the think-room at the United Nations, of the 'half-people' of our automotive age or the heirs of Senator McCarthy, she hews to the line and lets the quips fall where they may.''
        For some years, Ms. Mannes was seen often on television, but she was a champion of the written word. In a speech to a gathering of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, she once said, ''No picture on a screen can ever be an adequate substitute for the reporting of a trained observer and an honest writer.''
        Marya Mannes was born on Nov. 14, 1904, on the West Side of Manhattan. Her parents were David Mannes and the former Clara Damrosch - founders of the Mannes College of Music.
        She grew up in Manhattan, graduating in 1923 from Miss Veltin's School for Girls. Instead of going to college, she went to Europe for two years and studied sculpture, mainly in England.
        She went on to do varied writing - including a play, ''Cafe,'' that failed on Broadway in 1930. From 1933 to 1936, she worked for Vogue magazine, as an associate editor and later as feature editor.
        Wartime Analyst
        During part of World War II, she was an intelligence analyst with the Office of Strategic Services. After the war, she did much free-lance writing in addition to her work on The Reporter. Over the decades, 329 articles with her byline were published - 275 of them in The Reporter.
        In later years she appeared on various televison programs. The Times television critic Jack Gould wrote in 1961 that ''her sustained acerbity is one of the attractive adornments of contemporary criticism.'' She also lectured across the country.
        Her books include ''Out of My Time'' (1971), an autobiography; ''Message From a Stranger'' (1948) and ''They'' (1968) - both novels - and ''Subverse: Rhymes for Our Times'' (1959), a volume of satiric verse.
        She was also a co-author of ''Uncoupling: The Art of Coming Apart'' (1972), a book about divorce. ''The Best of Marya Mannes,'' an anthology of her writing edited by Robert Mottley, was published in 1986.
        In 1958 she won the George Polk Memorial Award, one of many honors given for her writing.
        Her three marriages - to the set designer Jo Melziener, to Richard A. Blow, an artist, and to Christopher Clarkson, a representative of British companies - ended in divorce.
        She is survived by her son, who lives in San Francisco.
      