
       Irene Dunne had a ladylike gentility that made her naughty antics in sophisticated comedies all the more hilarious. In classic farces like ''The Awful Truth,'' in which she portrayed a worldly divorcee briefly inpersonating a gauche chorine, she delighted audiences and reviewers with her wit and elan.
        Critics agreed that her artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance. Miss Dunne was nominated five times for Academy Awards, but despite her virtuosity and longtime popularity, an Oscar eluded her.
        Colleagues regarded her as diligent and cooperative. Douglas Fairbanks Jr., once a co-star, wrote that she was ''one of the most professional women I've ever known.''
        Studied Music
        Of Irish descent, Irene Dunne was born in Louisville, Ky., on Dec 20. The year was 1904, according to most sources. Her father was a supervisory steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, an accomplished pianist, was her first music teacher.
        She attended a convent school, studied voice and piano with private teachers, sang in a church choir, attended a music conservatory in Indianapolis and, after winning an arduous contest, was given a scholarship at the Chicago Musical College, from which she graduated with high honors.
        After auditioning at the Metropolitan Opera Company in New York, she was rejected for being, Miss Dunne recalled, ''too young, too inexperienced, too slight, too everything.''
        Had Lead in 'Show Boat'
        Shifting to musical comedy, the 5-foot 5-inch performer with brown hair and hazel eyes played the title role in a five-month tour of ''Irene'' and had roles in a number of minor Broadway musicals. In 1929, a milestone year, she was cast in the leading role of Magnolia for what became a hugely successful 72-week tour of Florenz Ziegfeld's production of ''Show Boat.''
        RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after a minor picture called ''Leathernecking'' and six months of drama lessons, she won the leading role of Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Edna Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.''
        Miss Dunne was cast for several years in such tragic and lachrymose roles as a hanidcapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a hugely popular tearjerker; a troubled wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she challenged a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.''
        Kern Cycle in the 30's
        By the mid-30's, her rich, warm soprano was heard in a Kern cycle - the nostalgic ''Sweet Adeline,'' the sparkling ''Roberta,'' ''Show Boat,'' and ''High, Wide and Handsome.''
        Miss Dunne chose her vehicles with great care and won even greater popularity in effervescent and urbane madcap comedies. In ''Theodora Goes Wild,'' she played a prim New Englander who writes a daring book and tries to live up to it.In several other farces, including ''The Awful Truth'' and ''My Favorite Wife,'' she and Cary Grant chased each other around with lively wit and dizzying backtalk.
        She also excelled in romantic dramas like ''Penny Serenade'' and ''Love Affair,'' her personal favorite of her 41 films.
        The actress later received accolades for two major wartime dramas, ''A Guy Named Joe,'' with Spencer Tracy and Van Johnson, and ''The White Cliffs of Dover.'' She was the indestructible Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's King in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian-American family in early 20th-century San Francisco in ''I Remember Mama.''
        Active in Philanthropies
        Miss Dunne was miscast in her last major film, ''The Mudlark,'' in 1950, for which her chiseled features were obliterated by the makeup she wore to play a frumpy elderly Queen Victoria. Her final film was ''It Grows on Trees,'' in 1952. In the 50's, she made occasional television appearances.
        As her acting career became less demanding, Miss Dunne found other pursuits, away from the film industry. An active Republican, she was named an alternate delegate to the 1957-58 United Nations General Assembly by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. She was a chairman of many philanthropies.
        Miss Dunne was married for 37 years to Dr. Francis D. Griffin, a dentist and later a businessman; he died in 1965. In 1938, they adopted their daughter, Mary Frances.
      