
       Irene Dunne, the patrician star of madcap comedies, sentimental dramas and Jerome Kern musical films of the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at her home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles. She was 91 years old.
        Besides enlivening many popular comedies, she proved her versatility in epics like ''Cimarron,'' her second film, which won her stardom; dramas like ''Back Street''; musicals; romances like ''Love Affair,'' and period films, including ''I Remember Mama.''
        A regal beauty with a classic face, a trim figure, well-modulated speech and a pleasing soprano voice, she was a dedicated artist. To millions of moviegoers, she was a genteel charmer.
        Oscar Eluded Her
        Reviewers agreed that Miss Dunne's artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance. She was nominated five times for Academy Awards, but despite her virtuosity and popularity, an Oscar eluded her, as was the case with many stars of her era. But she was among six distinguished Americans awarded the Kennedy Center Honors in the performing arts in 1985.
        Colleagues said they regarded Miss Dunne as diligent and cooperative. Douglas Fairbanks Jr., a co-star, hailed her as ''one of the most professional women I've ever known.''
        A private person, she separated herself from the movie world when she left the set. She was married for 37 years to Dr. Francis D. Griffin, a dentist and later a businessman; he died in 1965. In 1938, they adopted their daughter from the New York Foundling Hospital.
        Studied Music
        Miss Dunne, who was of Irish descent, was born in Louisville, Ky., on Dec. 20, 1898. (Some references put the year at 1901.) Her father was a steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, a pianist, was her first music teacher.
        She attended Loretta Academy, a Louisville convent school, and studied voice and piano with private teachers. She attended a music conservatory in Indianapolis and won a contest and scholarship at the Chicago Musical College. After auditioning at the Metropolitan Opera Company in New York, she was rejected, she recalled, for being ''too young, too inexperienced, too slight, too everything.'' Yet she later sang Gilbert and Sullivan operettas with the company one season, when, she remarked, the Met ''sent their youngest and thinnest singers on tour.''
        Had Lead in 'Show Boat'
        Shifting to musical comedy, the 5-foot 5-inch performer with brown hair and hazel eyes played the title role in a five-month tour of ''Irene'' and had roles in several minor Broadway musicals. In 1929, she won the lead ingenue role of Magnolia for a 72-week national tour of ''Show Boat,'' the now-classic musical by Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein 2d musical based on Edna Ferber's novel about Mississippi River show folk.
        RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after six months of acting lessons, she won a leading role as Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Miss Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.'' Her superb portrayal of Sabra Cravat, a sturdy pioneer in the Oklahoma land rush who later becomes a member of Congress - aging half a century - brought her fame.
        She was then cast in tragic roles like a handicapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a harried wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she battled a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.''
        Kern Cycle in the 1930's
        By the mid-1930's, her warm soprano was heard in a Kern cycle - the nostalgic ''Sweet Adeline''; the urbane ''Roberta,'' co-starring Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers; ''Show Boat,'' with Helen Morgan, Allan Jones and Paul Robeson, and ''High, Wide and Handsome,'' an exuberant saga of the Pennsylvania oil rush.
        Miss Dunne won her greatest popularity in comedies. In ''Theodora Goes Wild,'' she played a prim New Englander who writes a suggestive book and struggles to live up - or down - to it.
        In other farces, including ''The Awful Truth'' and ''My Favorite Wife,'' she and Cary Grant chased each other around with lively wit and dizzying back talk and what Bosley Crowther, then film critic of The New York Times, termed ''pure poetry of motion.''
        A Mother and a Queen
        She also excelled in romantic dramas like ''Penny Serenade'' and ''Love Affair,'' her favorite of her 41 films, and received accolades for two wartime dramas, ''A Guy Named Joe,'' with Spencer Tracy, and ''The White Cliffs of Dover.'' She was an indomitable Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's monarch in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian immigrant family in ''I Remember Mama.''
        In her last major film, ''The Mudlark,'' in 1950, for which her chiseled features were obliterated by makeup, she played a frumpy, elderly Queen Victoria. In the 1950's, she made only occasional television appearances.
        As she did less acting, she turned to other pursuits. She was named an alternate delegate to the 1957-58 United Nations General Assembly by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. She was a chairwoman of many philanthropies, and she received several honorary doctorates and many other honors.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
        MAGNOLIA, MAMA AND MRS. ANNA
        These are among the more than 40 films made by Irene Dunne during her 22-year film career:
        Cimarron (1931)
        Ann Vickers (1933)
        Roberta (1935)
        Magnificent Obsession (1935)
        Show Boat (1936)
        Theodora Goes Wild (1936)
        The Awful Truth (1937)
        Love Affair (1939)
        My Favorite Wife (1940)
        A Guy Named Joe (1943)
        The White Cliffs of Dover (1944)
        Anna and the King of Siam (1946)
        Life With Father (1947)
        I Remember Mama (1948)
        The Mudlark (1950)
      