
       Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best-known political families, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 51 years old.
        Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best-known political families, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 51 years old.
        Mrs. Sigmund first learned that she had cancer in 1982, when a melanoma was found behind her left eye. The eye was removed and she continued with her political career.
        But last year, after Mrs. Sigmund unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for governor of New Jersey, doctors found that the cancer had spread. Mrs. Sigmund had finished second in the primary to Representative Jim Florio, who went on to win the general election.
        Born in New Orleans
        Politics and public service were a way of life for Barbara Boggs Sigmund. She was born on May 27, 1939, in New Orleans about the time that her father, Hale Boggs, was beginning his first term as a Democratic Congressman.
        In 1972, the plane carrying her father, then the House majority leader, was lost over Alaska, and her mother, Corinne Lindy Claiborne Boggs, succeeded him in Congress.
        Mrs. Sigmund's mother's family, the Claibornes, traced its roots to colonial Jamestown in Virginia and is said to have included more members of Congress than any other American family.
        Politics 'All Around Us'
        ''Nobody speechified about it,'' Mrs. Sigmund once said about the family's deep interest in politics. ''It was all around us.''
        Her brother, Thomas Hale Boggs, is a prominent lawyer in Washington, and her sister, Cokie Roberts of Bethesda, Md., is a correspondent for National Public Radio and for ABC News on television and radio.
        Mrs. Sigmund was a graduate of Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. She married Paul E. Sigmund, a professor of political science at Princeton, in 1964. She became a Latin teacher at the Stuart Country Day School of the Sacred Heart in Princeton. After the birth of the couple's three sons, she returned to the school to teach religion and government.
        In 1974, she left Stuart to join the staff of the Center for the American Woman and Politics at the Eagleton Institute at Rutgers University.
        After serving as a member of the Princeton Borough Council, she was elected in 1976 to the Mercer County Board of Freeholders. She was president of the board in 1979 and 1980.
        In 1982, she decided to run for Congress, hoping she could join her mother on Capitol Hill. But at the last minute she changed her mind and ran instead for the Democratic nomination for the United States Senate, finishing fourth in a field of 10 candidates. It was during the 1982 campaign that she lost her eye to cancer and surprised everyone by showing up at a fund-raising event hours after checking out of the hospital. She was wearing an eye patch covered with the words ''Vote Sigmund.''
        'Subject to the Fates'
        After her defeat in the Senate primary, she was elected mayor of Princeton in 1983. ''There's no way to plan a political life,'' she said at the time. ''It's all subject to the fates. I enjoy practicing the craft of government and I think it can be done from the local level up, as well as the other way.''
        She brought a ready wit and seemingly boundless energy to the job of Mayor and attacked the problems of providing affordable housing and managing development. She loved to point out that Princeton's image as a wealthy town was misleading. ''It has been a town of mixed-income groups and races for centuries,'' she said.
        Once, she complained wryly that most of the town's newer residents were executives in the high-tech industries that were moving to Princeton and surrounding areas. ''We want a certain amount,'' she said, ''but not so much as to destroy the town.''
        Writing Poetry
        After Mrs. Sigmund was found to have a recurrence of cancer last year, she began chemotherapy treatments but continued to devote as much energy as she could to the duties of her office and her favorite hobby, writing poetry.
        Her mother announced in July that she would not run for re-election to Congress. She did not say so at the time, but close associates said she wanted more time to spend with her daughter.
        Besides her husband, her mother, her brother and her sister, Mrs. Sigmund is survived by three sons, Paul Jr., of Ann Arbor, Mich., David, of Detroit, and Stephen, of New Orleans.
        A funeral service will be held on Saturday at 5:30 P.M. in the Princeton University Chapel.
      