
       Corinna Reiman Marsh, an editor and a writer of verse and children's books, died on Monday at New York Hospital. She was 98 years and old and had lived in an apartment at Le Marquis Hotel on East 31st Street for more than 40 years before moving earlier this year to the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home.
        Corinna Reiman Marsh, an editor and a writer of verse and children's books, died on Monday at New York Hospital. She was 98 years and old and had lived in an apartment at Le Marquis Hotel on East 31st Street for more than 40 years before moving earlier this year to the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home.
        She died of pneumonia, a family spokeswoman, Jane Furth, said.
        Throughout a long literary career Mrs. Marsh was an inveterate writer of letters to editors, authors, political figures and government agencies. She carried on extensive correspondence with figures like Eleanor Roosevelt and Adlai Stevenson. Her letters to editors were frequently published in The New York Times and other journals on a wide variety of subjects that caught her fancy.
        She was a sharp critic of political polls (''fortune telling''), she opposed Sunday parades on Fifth Avenue (she lived a few steps off the avenue), and she was ever alert to catch misuse of the English language in print (she had taught English in her youth).
        Crossing Words With Buckley
        A decade ago Mrs. Marsh told an interviewer that she wrote to editors because ''it's important to let people know what you're thinking.'' One of the most frequent recipients of her letters was William F. Buckley Jr., whose conservatism rankled Mrs. Marsh's liberal bent.
        She recalled that when the two finally met after she had been writing barb-encrusted letters to him for more than 10 years, he took her aside and said, ''I hope now you'll tell your friends I don't bite.'' To which she replied, ''And I hope you'll tell your friends that I do.''
        Mrs. Marsh was born in Manhattan on Dec. 12, 1891. She was class poet at Barnard when she graduated in 1914. After teaching for several years she wrote advertising copy and children's books and for many years contributed light verse to newspapers and magazines.
        For four decades she was editor in chief of the University Society, publisher of educational materials. In the last 15 years her verse and her letters to editors have been concerned mainly with debunking sentimental attitudes toward old age.
        Eight years ago, when a 63-year-old man wrote The New York Times to urge his contemporaries to face the fact that ''old is old is old,'' Mrs. Marsh took pen to reply:
        ''Old at 63? People of that age 'senile, incompetent, deteriorated'? Maybe. But because of their age? ''I am 91 years of age and am fortunate enough still to have a goodly number of contemporaneous pals. Some of us may not see or hear or walk as well as we used to but, by golly, we are alert, interested, amused and amusing, as well as busy.''
        Among her books are ''Flippy's Flashlight'' a children's book published by Dutton in 1958.
        Mrs. Marsh is survived by a grandson, a great-grandson and several cousins.
      