
       Eleanor Steber, a leading soprano at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's who was particularly noted for her Mozart and Strauss roles, died yesterday morning at the Attleboro Nursing Home in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old. She died of congestive heart failure, said her representative, Martha Moore
        Eleanor Steber, a leading soprano at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's who was particularly noted for her Mozart and Strauss roles, died yesterday morning at the Attleboro Nursing Home in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old. She died of congestive heart failure, said her representative, Martha Moore Smith.
        Miss Steber had a silvery soprano of considerable size with a pungent vibrato and impressive control of ornamentation. Her Met debut role in 1940 was Sophie in Strauss's ''Rosenkavalier,'' and she sang Strauss roles throughout her career.
        She was especially admired for her Mozart heroines, moving from the lyrical (Pamina in ''Die Zauberflote'') through the more dramatic and ornamented (Constanze in ''Die Entfuhrung aus dem Serail'' in that opera's Met premiere in 1946, Fiordiligi in ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' the Countess in ''Le Nozze di Figaro'' and Donna Elvira in ''Don Giovanni'') to the highly dramatic (Donna Anna in ''Don Giovanni'').
        At the Bayreuth Festival
        Although she sang a wide range of German, Italian and French parts, she gradually assumed heavier roles in the 1950's, including the ''Rosenkavalier'' Marschallin and Elsa in Wagner's ''Lohengrin,'' which she also sang and recorded at the Bayreuth Festival in West Germany.
        Miss Steber was born in Wheeling, W. Va., on July 17, 1914, two years earlier than the date published in most standard reference works, Miss Smith said. She studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and privately in New York, and won the 1940 Metropolitan Opera radio auditions, which led to her company debut.
        Her Met career included 404 performances of 33 roles from 1940 to 1966. She sang the title roles in the world premiere of Samuel Barber's ''Vanessa'' in 1958 and in the American premiere of Strauss's ''Arabella'' in 1955. She also sang Marie in the Met's first performance of Berg's ''Wozzeck'' in 1959. In addition to Bayreuth, she appeared at many other European festivals, including those in Edinburgh, Vienna and Florence, and with several American companies.
        As part of an active concert and recording career, she made more than 100 albums and commissioned and first performed Barber's concert aria, ''Knoxville: Summer of 1915.'' She also appeared on radio, television and, in the 1960's, in musicals.
        'I Was Knocked for a Loop'
        In 1962, Rudolf Bing, then general manager of the Met, declined to rehire the singer.
        ''He told me I wouldn't miss the Met at all,'' Miss Steber recalled in 1973. ''I tell you, I was knocked for a loop.'' She did make one final appearance at the Met in 1966, replacing Dorothy Kirsten.
        Miss Steber continued to sing into the 1970's, often appearing in duo recitals with Blanche Thebom and presenting three solo recitals in 1973 at Alice Tully Hall. That same year she also sang Miss Wingrave in the American premiere of Britten's ''Owen Wingrave'' with the Santa Fe Opera.
        Her later years were primarily devoted to teaching. She was head of the voice department at the Cleveland Institute from 1963 to 1972, and taught at the Juilliard School in the 1970's and at Brooklyn College in the 1980's. In 1975, she established the Eleanor Steber Foundation to help young singers.
        She is survived by a sister, Lucille Leslie of Newtown, Pa.; a brother, William C. Steber of State College, Pa., two stepdaughters and one stepson.
      