
       Ruth Wittenberg, who led fights to preserve historic buildings in Greenwich Village, including the Jefferson Market Courthouse, died in her sleep on Monday at her home on West 10th Street, where she had lived for 65 years. She was 91 years old.
        Ruth Wittenberg, who led fights to preserve historic buildings in Greenwich Village, including the Jefferson Market Courthouse, died in her sleep on Monday at her home on West 10th Street, where she had lived for 65 years. She was 91 years old.
        Mrs. Wittenberg was a familiar figure at City Hall and in other forums where she pleaded the case for preservation and against what she and her neighbors considered invasive development. She was a major force in gaining designation of the Greenwich Village Historic District two decades ago.
        ''I'm kind of a landmark myself,'' Mrs. Wittenberg said in 1977 when, at the age of 79, she was honored for her many civic campaigns. She served on what is now Community Board 2 for almost four decades, having been appointed in 1951 to its predecessor, the Community Council for the Greenwich Village area, by the Manhattan Borough President, Robert F. Wagner. For many years she was chairwoman of the board's landmarks committee.
        Board Meetings in Hospital
        She was active in board affairs until shortly before her death. A small, energetic woman, she broke a hip in 1975 in a fall while walking on the Avenue of the Americas. Board 2's landmark committee meetings were held in her hospital room until she recovered, and in the years after that, she attended Board of Estimate and Planning Commission sessions in a wheelchair.
        Born into a politically active family, she said one of her earliest memories was sitting on the knee of Eugene V. Debs, the Socialist leader.
        Mrs. Wittenberg was born in Brooklyn and attended Hunter College and Barnard before quitting to help support her family by working as a demographer for the Bell Telephone Company, predicting population trends for expansion of telephone service.
        Jailed as a Suffragist
        As a suffragist before women won the right to vote, she was twice jailed. She marched in 1965 in Selma, Ala., in a civil rights demonstration with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr..
        Not all her battles were victories. She led Village residents in an unsuccessful fight against New York University's plan to construct the 12-story-high Elmer A. Bobst Library on Washington Square South, which residents regarded as too bulky for the site.
        Her most conspicuous victory was for demolition of the Women's House of Detention on Greenwich Avenue at Christopher Street and conversion of the site into a community garden, together with preservation of the adjacent Jefferson Market Courthouse, now a branch public library.
        Mrs. Wittenberg's husband, Philip, to whom she was married in 1919, died three years ago. She is survived by a daughter, Susanna Berger of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a son, Jonathan, of Tuckahoe, N.Y., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      