
       Beatrice Behrman, an innovative doll maker who founded the Alexander Doll Company in Manhattan and owned it for 65 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 95 years old.  She died in her sleep, a spokesman for the company said.
        Beatrice Behrman, an innovative doll maker who founded the Alexander Doll Company in Manhattan and owned it for 65 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 95 years old.  She died in her sleep, a spokesman for the company said.
        Mrs. Behrman, who was known as Madame Alexander, began designing dolls for her father, a Russian emigre, during World War I, when she began making ''Red Cross Nurse'' rag dolls. In 1923 she founded the Alexander Doll Company, in which she produced rag dolls with innovative three-dimensional facial features that she hand-painted. In the 1930's she began making dolls with lifelike details like eyes with lashes that closed and fingers with knuckles.
        With the advent of plastic after World War II, she made dolls with vinyl heads and elaborate hair that could be styled. She also created designer clothing for the dolls and received international attention. In 1953, a collection of her dolls featuring, in authentic detail, Queen Elizabeth I and 35 principals at her coronation was presented to the Brooklyn Children's Museum.
        In 1965, she was honored by the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, Arthur Goldberg, for her collection of international dolls that featured the native dress of every country represented at the U.N.
        She also created dolls that portrayed characters in books and movies like Alice in Wonderland, Orphan Annie, Nancy Drew, the four sisters in ''Little Women'' and characters from Charles Dickens's books. Her ''Madame'' doll, based on the American Revolution, and her ''Scarlett O'Hara'' doll, portraying the Civil War era in ''Gone with the Wind,'' were included in the Smithsonian Institution in 1968.
        She also designed children's clothing and won four Fashion Academy gold medals. Her company, which was sold two years ago to two New York businessmen, has created more than 5,000 different dolls at its factory in on West 131st Street in Harlem, where it has about 600 employees and is one of the area's largest employers. Many of the dolls have become collectors' items and sell for about $5,000.
        She is survived by a daughter, Mildren Birnbaum of Purchase, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fla.; a grandson, and a great-granddaughter.
      