
        Lisa Kirk, a cabaret performer who won Broadway acclaim in the late 1940's singing "The Gentleman Is a Dope" in the musical "Allegro" and "Always True to You (In My Fashion)" in "Kiss Me, Kate," died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 62 years old and had homes in New York City and Malibu, Calif.
        Miss Kirk died of lung cancer, said her husband, the lyricist and producer Robert Wells. He said she had known of her illness for only two weeks, after seeing doctors because of a slight cough and mild fatigue. "She had never been ill in her life," he said. "She didn't drink, and she didn't smoke. It's unbelievable."
        In the late 1960's, Miss Kirk was injured in an autombile accident that threatened to end her career. But she started "training like a fighter," she recalled later. When she appeared in 1972 at the St. Regis Sheraton Hotel in New York City, John S. Wilson of The New York Times wrote that "she is dancing and singing as though nothing had ever happened." Inspired by Cole Porter
        Miss Kirk said at the time: "I kept thinking of Cole Porter, who had both legs crushed in a riding accident 10 years before he wrote 'Kiss Me, Kate.' It was seeing his determination to get better that made me work so hard."
        When Miss Kirk performed at Rainbow and Stars last year, Mr. Wilson praised her "warm, easy projection" and said, "Her long career has given her polish, presence and a solid foundation of songs by Rodgers and Hammerstein, Cole Porter and Jerry Herman with which she is associated."
        Brought up in Roscoe, Pa., Miss Kirk studied at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. She appeared in New York nightclubs and on Broadway in "Good Night Ladies." But it was Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Allegro" that brought her fame in 1947. Cole Porter's "Kiss Me, Kate" the following year cemented her reputation.
        Brooks Atkinson of The Times wrote, "Having startled the town last season by singing 'The Gentleman Is a Dope' as though she meant it, Miss Kirk is captivating it this year as a fully accredited hoyden with a sense of humor."
        "Given a sardonic song like 'Always True to You (In My Fashion),' " he wrote, "she can translate it into pert and gleaming buffoonery."
        Miss Kirk told an interviewer in 1956 that she had not realized at first that she had comic gifts. "I had the vague idea of becoming a new Helen Morgan," she recalled. "With that in mind, I practiced a song before a mirror and framed it in what I considered appropriate gestures. When I did it for a director and some backers of a show, those men fell off their seats laughing. I could see that the laugh wasn't ridicule. They were amused."
        In 1964 she returned to Broadway, stepping into Meredith Willson's musical "Here's Love." In 1974 she appeared in "Mack and Mabel," a Broadway show with music and lyrics by Jerry Herman. She was in a 1984 revival of Noel Coward's "Design for Living" at the Circle in the Square theater and appeared in London last summer in Cole Porter's "Nymph Errant."
        She is survived by her husband.
        A funeral service is planned for Friday at 11:15 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, Madison Avenue and 81st Street.
      