
        Anya Seton, the author of several popular historical and biographical novels, two of which were made into successful films, died on Thursday at her home in Old Greenwich, Conn. She was 86 years old.
        She had been ill for several years and died of heart failure, a daughter, Pamela Cottier Forcey, said.
        Miss Seton developed a devoted following from the 1940's to the 1970's for her carefully researched and evocative works, two of which, "Dragonwyck" and "Foxfire," were made into successful films. She won critical praise for her attention to the language and life style of the periods she wrote about, but she was frequently faulted for reworking familiar ground.  A First Book at 37
        The daughter of a celebrated English author, artist and naturalist, Ernest Thompson Seton, and an American writer of travel books, Grace Gallatin, Miss Seton did not produce her first successful book until she was 37 years old. She had married the first of her two husbands when she was 18 and raised three children before turning seriously to writing.
        She began selling short stories to newspapers -- her first brought her a check for $5 -- and in the late 1930's became interested in the story of Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, a celebrated beauty of her time who died mysteriously.
        Miss Seton decided to apply a fictional treatment to the woman's life and the result was "My Theodosia," published in 1941 and well received by critics and the public.
        "Dragonwyck," her second published novel, gained international recognition. A Gothic tale set along the Hudson River in the 1840's, it was serialized by the Ladies' Home Journal, selected by the Dollar Book Club, translated into nine languages and made into a film starring Vincent Price as a feudal overlord who tyrannizes his tenant farmers, kills his wife and takes up with a distant relative, played by Gene Tierney. Role for Vincent Price
        The film, released in 1946, was adapted by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and was his first directorial effort; it established him as a major force in movies and set a villainous style for Mr. Price that he was to repeat many times.
        That year Miss Seton followed with "The Turquoise," a novel of the American Southwest in the 1890's, inspired by visits to her father's ranch in New Mexico. Two years later came "The Hearth and the Eagle," set in Marblehead on the Massachusetts coast.
        For each of her books, Miss Seton spent a good deal of time getting to know the locale about which she was writing.
        "It is impossible for me to describe or 'feel' any place to which I have not been," she once said. "I am inspired by places." "Dragonwyck," "The Turquoise," "The Hearth and the Eagle" and "Foxfire," the latter set in an Arizona ghost town and made into a 1955 film starring Jane Russell and Jeff Chandler, all resulted from visits to places which, Miss Seton said, "suddenly became meaningful." Dark Romances
        But her favorite books were her biographical novels. Besides "My Theodosia" these included "Katherine" (1954), the story of the mistress of John of Gaunt; "The Winthrop Woman" (1958), about the niece and daughter-in-law of John Winthrop, Governor of Massachusetts, and "Devil Water" (1962), "Avalon" (1965) and "Green Darkness" (1973), all of which take place in England and tell of dark romances.
        Miss Seton was born in Manhattan and raised in Cos Cob, Conn., where her family had an estate. She was christened Ann, but a family friend, a Sioux chief, gave her the Indian name Anutika, which her family adapted to Anya. She traveled extensively with her parents; by the time she was 13 she had crossed the Atlantic eight times. She had private tutors much of the time but graduated from the Spence School.
        Miss Seton was twice married and divorced. Her son, Seton Cottier, died in 1979. She is survived by Mrs. Forcey, who lives in Manhattan, and another daughter, Clemency Chase Coggins of Auburndale, Mass.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      