
        Vijay Lakshmi Pandit, an Indian independence fighter, diplomat and politician, and the first woman to serve as President of the United Nations General Assembly, died today in the northern town of Dehra Dun. She was 90 years old.
        Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
        President Ramaswami Venkataraman described Mrs. Pandit today as a "luminous strand in the tapestry of India's freedom struggle." "Distinctive in her elegance, courage and dedication, Mrs. Pandit was an asset to the national movement," he continued.
        Frail with age and ailing for some time, Mrs. Pandit had not been poltically active for several years. She moved from New Delhi to Dehra Dun in 1970. But in 1977, outraged by the authoritarian state of emergency imposed from 1975 to 1977 by Indira Gandhi, she campaigned actively against her niece. A popular revolt led to electoral defeat for Mrs. Gandhi, who reportedly never forgave her aunt for her outspoken role.  Ambassador to Moscow
        Mrs. Gandhi and Mrs. Pandit were also cool to each other because of what Mrs. Gandhi viewed as her aunt's condescension toward her mother. Kamala Nehru, Mrs. Gandhi's mother, came from a middle-class Kashmiri Brahmin family and married into the rich, aristocratic Nehru family. Accounts of the time say that she never quite adjusted to the change in lifestyle and was often lonely.
        Mrs. Pandit, whose husband died in the 1940's, took part in the Indian freedom movement and was arrested several times by the British colonial authorities.
        Her brother appointed her as Ambassador to Moscow when India became independent in 1947. She then held a succession of high positions, including ambassadorships to the United States and Britain and, in 1953, presidency of the United Nations General Assembly. She also led the Indian mission to the United Nations.
        At home, she was elected a lawmaker two times and served as Governor of the western state of Maharashtra. She retired from public life in 1970 but later served as the Indian representative to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
        She is survived by three daughters, including the novelist Nayantara Sehgal.
      