
        Hortense W. Gabel, a former New York State Supreme Court justice who was a longtime advocate for housing and civil rights and whose career was shattered when she was accused in the Bess Myerson case, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old.
        She died of heart failure, her daughter, Sukhreet, said.
        Mrs. Gabel served on the Civil Court and State Supreme Court for 17 years. In December 1988 she was acquitted of charges that she had abused her powers by improperly reducing the alimony payments of Ms. Myerson's companion, Carl A. Capasso, in exchange for a job for her daughter in the city's Department of Cultural Affairs, which Ms. Myerson headed.
        Mrs. Gabel had a long and distinguished career in government before assuming the Civil Court bench in 1970. That career began after Mrs. Gabel, already active as a reform Democrat, attended a dinner party in 1948 given by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, the founder of the American Jewish Congress; discussion at the party centered on the formation of a group that would champion the cause of blacks discriminated against in housing.  Enforced Rent Laws
        By the mid-1950's, as a director of the Committee on Discrimination in Housing, she was involved in trying to expose abuses in the urban renewal program in New York City and helped draft a report that was highly critical of Robert Moses, the builder who reshaped much of the city.
        As head of New York City's Rent and Rehabilitation Administration, she dreamed of a slumless New York, and her enforcement of the rent-control laws uncovered overcharges and conspiracies, saving tenants millions of dollars. She also developed rehabilitation programs for sections of Harlem, the Lower East Side and Brooklyn.
        Later, as a consultant to and vice president of the Center for Community Change, Mrs. Gabel helped develop housing programs in cities and states across the country.
        In her several decades of public service, she served as an assistant New York City corporation counsel, general counsel and first deputy administrator of the New York State Temporary Housing Rent Commission and assistant to the mayor for housing and New York City Rent and Rehabilitation Commissioner, a position she held from 1962 to 1965. Mrs. Gabel was also a consultant to the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency and to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        She served as an acting justice of the State Supreme Court in 1973 and as an acting Family Court judge in 1974. She was appointed to fill a vacancy on the State Supreme Court by Gov. Hugh L. Carey in 1975. She was known as a compassionate judge who supported civil rights and women's causes. In 1986, she was named judge of the year by the National Association of Women Judges, an organization she helped found in 1979.
        The organization's president, Justice Christine Durham of the Utah Supreme Court, said in a 1987 interview that Justice Gabel was revered as "one of the grand dames of the New York legal community, who has been a mentor and supporter of women in the profession for decades."
        Justice Gabel resigned in 1987 under the cloud of criminal and misconduct investigations that led to the Myerson indictments.
        A jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan found Mrs. Gabel, Ms. Myerson and Mr. Capasso not guilty of charges of conspiracy, fraud and bribery. The central issue in the case was whether Mrs. Gabel, who was the judge handling preliminary motions in Mr. Capasso's divorce case in 1983, had received a bribe from Ms. Myerson, then New York City's Cultural Affairs Commissioner, in the form of a job for Sukhreet Gabel as a special assistant to Ms. Myerson.
        The hiring, the prosecution said, was an inducement to reduce Mr. Capasso's weekly support payments to his wife to $500 from $1,500. Mrs. Gabel had been seeking a job for her daughter. Family Drama
        The case was full of bizarre twists and personal dramas. The two-month trial was dominated by the nine days of testimony against her mother by Sukhreet Gabel, the prosecution's star witness, who also taped two telephone conversations with her mother without her knowledge and provided prosecutors with some of her mother's documents.
        Mrs. Gabel and her husband, Dr. Milton Gabel, were portrayed during the trial as the protective parents of a troubled woman, and seemed torn between wanting to support her in her moment in the spotlight and hoping that her testimony would not sway the jury.
        After the verdict, an exuberant Mrs. Gabel held hands with her daughter outside the courthouse and shouted, "Hooray, we won!"
        "This is the best judicial experience I have ever had," she said.
        Hortense Wittstein Gabel, known as Horty to her friends, was born Dec. 16, 1912, in the Bronx. She attended public schools in the city and graduated from Hunter College in 1934. Three years later she graduated from Columbia University Law School and worked in her father's law firm. She left in 1944 to marry Dr. Gabel, then an army dentist, and in the war years was a reporter at Fort Hood, Tex., before returning to New York.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Sybil Phillips. They both live in Manhattan. Dr. Gabel died in July.
      