
        Alice Marble, a Californian who grudgingly gave up baseball and grew into America's No. 1 female tennis player by winning the United States women's amateur singles title four times between 1936 and 1940, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. Miss Marble, a longtime resident of Palm Desert, Calif., was 77 years old.
        Miss Marble, who suffered from pernicious anemia, according to her sister-in-law, Bernice Marble of San Francisco, was admitted to the hospital on Saturday and died at 1:35 A.M. yesterday. A hospital spokesman, Randy Bevilacqua, gave no cause of death.
        To achieve her stature as the golden-haired queen of women's tennis, Miss Marble had to overcome obstacles. Born on Sept. 13, 1913, in the lumber town of Beckwith in the Sierra Nevadas, she left with her parents and three brothers at the age of 5 to grow up in San Francisco, a chubby girl athlete, adept at boxing, baseball and basketball. Turned to Tennis at 15
        Her athletic skills were not turned to tennis until the age of 15. The former Little Queen of Swat learned the game quickly in Golden Gate Park. After winning many junior tournaments in California, her progress was slowed in 1933 by a case of sunstroke after she played 108 games of tennis in one day at East Hampton, L.I.
        Then, in 1934, she suffered a complete collapse during a French-American series of matches at Roland Garros Stadium in Paris, which led to a diagnosis of pleurisy. She required a year of rest in a sanitarium, causing her to miss most of the 1934 and 1935 seasons.
        When she applied to play in the national amateur championship at Forest Hills in 1936, the tournament committee refused to accept her entry, saying she was unfit to play and might permanently jeopardize her health. But after practicing a week, Miss Marble persuaded the committee to accept her entry and she went on to win her first national championship. Ranked No. 1 in 1936-1940
        As the No. 1-ranked woman from 1936 to 1940, she dominated the game. She won the United States singles title again in 1938, 1939 and 1940 and the women's singles at Wimbledon in 1939.
        With Sarah Palfrey Fabyan she won the United States women's doubles championships from 1937 through 1940 and the mixed-doubles title with Gene Mako in 1936, with Donald Budge in 1938, with Harry Hopman in 1939 and with Bobby Riggs in 1940. At Wimbledon, she also won the women's doubles in 1938 and 1939 with Mrs. Fabyan and the mixed doubles with Budge in 1937 and 1938 and with Riggs in 1939.
        In 1939, she had won the singles, women's doubles and mixed doubles at both Forest Hills and Wimbledon and in 1940 she was undefeated. As a member of four winning Wightman Cup teams in matches against Britain during the 1930's she lost only one match in singles and one in doubles. Aided by a Coach
        After her illness, Miss Marble was aided by the coaching of Eleanor Tennant, who made changes in her strokes. Miss Marble played an all-out athletic game complete with strong volleys and smashes. She was also adept at the twist serve and possessed a strong backhand. She was unusually quick on her feet and used her speed to good advantage while attacking the net.
        Jack Kramer, a member of the Tennis Hall of Fame, said yesterday of Miss Marble: "She was the lady who most changed the style of play for women. She introduced the aggressive and athletic style that has led down to the female stars of today like Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova and Steffi Graf."
        "Alice Marble was a picture of unrestrained athleticism," said Billie Jean King. "She is remembered as one of the greatest women to play the game because of her pioneering style in power tennis. I also admired her tremendously because she always helped others." Became a Pro After 1940
        After her conquests of 1939 and 1940, Miss Marble renounced her amateur standing and turned professional. Since there were no professional tournaments for women, she played a series of exhibitions until the outbreak of World War II, when she enlisted in the Hale America movement to assist in improving the physical condition of women and youngsters.
        She also played exhibition tennis matches to entertain servicemen and to promote the sales of war bonds. She was inducted into the Lawn Tennis Hall of Fame at Newport, R.I., in 1964 with Donald Budge, her former mixed-doubles partner.
        In 1946 she published a book "The Road to Wimbledon." She said she wrote it "because of so many requests from friends and fans who asked me to tell them the secret of success." Autobiography to Be Published
        After the war, she continued to play exhibition matches and give tennis clinics in the United States and abroad. She also designed sportswear and traveled as a lecturer.
        Her autobiogrpahy, "Courting Danger," written with Dale Leatherman, is scheduled for publication in June 1991, by St. Martin's Press.
        In it, according to Miss Leatherman, Miss Marble writes of her marriage to Joe Crowley, an Army pilot who was shot down and killed over Germany during World War II. She also told of accepting an assignment as a spy for Army Intelligence in 1945 to gather information in Switzerland about German financial accounts. During the operation, she was shot in the back, but was rescued by her military intelligence contact and recovered. She was told not to mention the operation to anyone after the war.
        Asked at a news conference in 1984 if she had any regrets about her tennis career, Miss Marble said, "I did not get to see myself on television and I did not get to play the tie breaker."
      