
        Eugenia Delarova Doll, a ballerina with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and a dance and music patron, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. She was 79 years old.
        Mrs. Doll died of complications following surgery for a brain tumor, said Robert Fizdale, the pianist, who was a longtime friend.
        Mrs. Doll, born in St. Petersburg, left the Soviet Union in 1926. The next year she performed in Paris with the Folies-Bergere, where she met Leonide Massine, the choreographer and dancer, at the stage door and soon after became his second wife. The Massines moved to New York City in 1928 and danced at the Roxy Theater until 1931.
        Mrs. Doll joined the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1933, dancing as Eugenia Delarova. She originated character roles in several ballets choreographed by Massine, then ballet master and a choreographer and dancer with the company. Among the roles were the Flower Girl in "Gaite Parisienne."  Opened a Flower Shop
        The couple were divorced in 1938. Mrs. Doll opened a flower shop on Madison Avenue and appeared on Broadway as a dancer and actress in shows like "Simple Simon" and "The Lady Comes Across." She married Henri G. Doll, an industrialist, inventor and director of research and development at Schlumberger Ltd. Their house on East 78th Street became a second home for musicians and dancers from all over the world, particularly Russian emigres, who were befriended and helped by the Dolls.
        Mrs. Doll was an enthusiastic balletgoer, who recommended to Massine that he hire "a fantastic dancer" named Jerome Robbins "to do all his parts," as she later put it. Mr. and Mrs. Doll later commissioned Mr. Robbins's "Other Dances."
        This year, Mrs. Doll gave a total of $3 million to American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet, the School of American Ballet and the American Friends of the Paris Opera and Ballet. Mrs. Doll also contributed to the Dance Theater of Harlem, the Joffrey Ballet and the companies of Paul Taylor and Alvin Ailey, as well as the American Symphony Orchestra, Carnegie Hall, the Brooklyn Academy of Music and the French Institute/Alliance Francaise. In 1986 she was named an Officier de L'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Government for her support of the Paris Opera Ballet.
        Mrs. Doll is survived by her husband.
      