
        Janet Chusmir, executive editor of The Miami Herald and a leading proponent of women's advancement to the top levels of management in American journalism, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Miami. She was 60 years old.
        The Herald said Ms. Chusmir suffered a brain aneurysm on Friday night, aboutan hour after returning to her home in Miami Beach after the paper's evening news conference at her office.
        We have lost a great friend and a great editor," said The Herald's publisher, David Lawrence. "What a zest she had for good newspapers; what energy she had for caring, for worrying about what was right and fair for everyone."
        In Ms. Chusmir's three-year tenure as executive editor, The Herald won two Pulitzer Prizes. And in November 1988, less than a year after she was appointed to the paper's top news post, The Herald introduced an enlarged and revamped Spanish-language newspaper, with a separate staff, called El Nuevo Herald. A month ago she was named Editor of the Year by the National Press Foundation, which cited her for "transforming The Herald to serve the unique multicultural population of greater Miami."
        When Ms. Chusmir was named The Herald's executive editor in December 1987, about 85 percent of the newsroom executives in the country were men, according to a survey by the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Of the society's 1,000 members -- the top editors of the nation's dailies -- about 80 were women. Opposed Special Position
        The dearth of women in high positions was the subject of a seminar at the society's convention in 1988. And when an editor suggested that it was desirable for newspapers to create a "woman's seat" among their top editors, Ms. Chusmir denounced the idea. "The seat becomes devalued," she said, "and the function becomes devalued."
        Ms. Chusmir was a feminist who understood the potency of understatement. She recently told a group of Hispanic women: "Pick your battles. It's not good to be fighting over each little thing and male chauvinistic action. Instead, fight for the important things: equal pay and equal respect. Fight smart."
        At the same time, she was fond of telling female executives not to forsake their ability to nurture. "I always remind myself that I can't hug a newspaper," she said.
        Janet Zoll was born in Boston and earned a journalism degree from Boston University in 1949. A week after graduation she married the editor of her college newspaper, Leonard Chusmir, and soon became a mother and homemaker.
        It was not until after moving to Miami Beach with her two school-age children in 1963 that Ms. Chusmir took a job at the Miami Beach Daily Sun, which no longer operates, writing articles at a flat rate of $2.50 each. She was soon given a full-time position. Five Years in Colorado
        In 1968, The Herald hired her as a general assignment reporter, and, soon afterward, she was writing a column and receiving awards for her feature writing. In the early 1970's, Ms. Chusmir was named editor of The Herald section News For and About Women, which in her tenure was renamed Living Today. By 1977, she had been promoted to assistant managing editor for features.
        Then, in 1982, Knight-Ridder Newspapers, the Herald's corporate parent, appointed her president and publisher of The Daily Camera in Boulder, Colo., making her the first female chief executive of one of the organization's newspapers. Five years later, she returned to The Herald as executive editor.
        Last year, in an occasional column she wrote, "View From the Newsroom," Ms. Chusmir offered readers a personal glance at herself. She said her favorite avocations were "baking, reading, swimming, dieting." Her favorite place was "my balcony at sunset." And of journalism, she said, "It's a sacred trust."
        Besides her husband, Ms. Chusmir is survived by a son, Steven, of Fort Lauderdale; a daughter, Marsha Chusmir-Shapiro of Daytona Beach, and a grandson.
      