
       Evelyn Ames, a poet and prose writer whose works on wildlife and the environment were praised by reviewers as graceful and intense, but not sentimental, died on Thursday at St. Johnland Nursing Home in Kings Park, L.I. She was 81 years old and had homes in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and Martha's Vineyard.
        Evelyn Ames, a poet and prose writer whose works on wildlife and the environment were praised by reviewers as graceful and intense, but not sentimental, died on Thursday at St. Johnland Nursing Home in Kings Park, L.I. She was 81 years old and had homes in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and Martha's Vineyard.
        ''A Glimpse of Eden,'' recounting a safari in East Africa, joined ''a poet's urge to describe her experience in beautiful and even fanciful terms, and a thinker's urge to generalize about it,'' wrote Orville Prescott in a 1967 review in The New York Times.
        ''She strikes just the right note when she remarks on the bond of sympathy she felt for lions,'' the critic wrote, concluding, ''It takes a poet like Evelyn Ames to see the 'tender affection' of lions.'' John C. Devlin of The Times termed the work ''sharp-eyed and lyrical.''
        Other volumes included ''In Time Like Glass: Reflections on a Journey in Asia'' (1974); ''Only the Loving,'' a 1952 novel; and two books of poetry: ''The Hawk From Heaven'' (1957) and ''Dust on a Precipice'' (1981).
        Daughter of a Professor
        The writer, whose given name was Evelyn Perkins, was born to a physics professor and an actress in Hamden, Conn., grew up in Hartford, and was educated at Milton Academy and Vassar College. Among her former posts were those of vice president of The Women Poets, director of the African Wildlife Foundation and trustee of the Environmental Defense Fund and Milton Academy.
        Surviving are her husband, Amyas Ames, the chairman emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the New York Philharmonic; two sons, Oakes and Edward, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Olivia Ames Hoblitzelle and Joan Ames Woodcock, both of Cambridge, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held on March 5 at 11 A.M. in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.
      