
       Maria Gambarelli Fenton, who was prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and headed the bills that opened the Capital and Roxy theaters and Radio City Music Hall, died after a cerebral hemorrhage on Sunday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I. She was 89 years old.
        Maria Gambarelli Fenton, who was prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and headed the bills that opened the Capital and Roxy theaters and Radio City Music Hall, died after a cerebral hemorrhage on Sunday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I. She was 89 years old.
        The Italian-born Miss Gambarelli came to New York with her family and began her training at the age of 7 at Metropolitan Opera's ballet school. She had previously auditioned for the prima ballerina Anna Pavlova, who told the child that she had no technique but sufficient grace to become a great dancer.
        Miss Gambarelli made her stage debut as an Ethiopian slave child in ''Aida'' at the Metropolitan, where, at age 13, she became the understudy to prima ballerina Rosina Galli. ''My goal was to be the youngest prima ballerina in America,'' she said in a 1988 interview in The New York Times. ''To set that record, I'd have to do it before I was 14. But Galli was mean. She never let me go on for her.''
        She left the Metropolitan the following year, when she was invited by Samuel (Roxy) Rothafel, the theatrical impresario, to dance at the Capitol Theater in shows that accompanied films. Her name shortened to ''Gamby'' by Mr. Rothafel, she also starred in ''Roxy's Gang,'' a hit radio show in the 1920's, on which she sang and became known nationally for the ''Gamby giggle.'' Miss Gambarelli also directed ''Gamby's Girls,'' a troupe of 16 precision ballet dancers who she said were the genesis of the Roxyettes, later the Rockettes.
        Miss Gambarelli then went to Hollywood to perform in ballets and in three films: ''Here's to Romance,'' ''Hooray for Love'' and ''Santa Barbara Fiesta.'' There she married Edward Fenton, a screenwriter.
        Miss Gambarelli was prima ballerina of the Metropolitan from 1939 to 1941. She was known for her gift for pantomime, her expressive arms and hands, and her blond movie-star looks. She also choreographed and directed a dance company that made extensive tours of the United States and Canada, and she appeared in occasional television commercials into her 80's.
        ''During my time, even if I danced in movie theaters, I made people, the everyday American public, love the dance,'' Miss Gambarelli said in 1988. ''We taught them about the ballet.'' She is survived by her husband.
      