
       Carolyn Haywood, a popular author and illustrator of children's books who is best known for her ''Betsy'' and ''Eddie'' series for 7-to-10-year-olds, died of a stroke yesterday at her home in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia. She was 92 years old.
        Carolyn Haywood, a popular author and illustrator of children's books who is best known for her ''Betsy'' and ''Eddie'' series for 7-to-10-year-olds, died of a stroke yesterday at her home in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia. She was 92 years old.
        Miss Haywood's writing career began in 1939 with '' 'B' is for Betsy,'' published by Harcourt Brace. After eight books with that company, she moved to William Morrow & Company, where she published 39 more books, most recently, ''Hello, Star'' in 1987. Her last manuscript, ''Eddie's Friend, Boddles,'' was delivered to Morrow just before Christmas and is to be published next year.
        Her picture books and novels used humor in dealing with day-to-day school and family matters. ''There are no great problems solved here, nor great adventures,'' a New York Times reviewer, Phyllis Fenner, wrote about ''Snowbound With Betsy'' (1962). ''Yet Carolyn Haywood makes the everyday doings of children exciting and funny, entering into them from a child's level. That is sheer genius and can't be done by calculation.''
        Miss Haywood, who was known early on for her portraits of children, illustrated her own books until the 1970's, using as models children who lived in her neighborhood.
        She was born in Philadelphia and studied to be a teacher before turning to art and to writing. She taught for a year in the Friends Central School in Philadelphia, then attended the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, where she studied portrait painting and won a scholarship for European travel.
        She also studied privately. Miss Haywood did several mural decorations for Philadelphia banks and a public school, and did hand lettering and illumination as well as children's portraiture.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      