
       Kate Simon, a writer of popular, literate and vivid travel guides and two memoirs that were hailed by reviewers as lucid, lively and humorous, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old.
        Kate Simon, a writer of popular, literate and vivid travel guides and two memoirs that were hailed by reviewers as lucid, lively and humorous, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 years old.
        Miss Simon's 10 travel works included the landmark - and best-selling - ''New York Places and Pleasures: An Uncommon Guidebook,'' which has undergone four revisions since 1959, and parallel studies of Mexico City, Paris, London and Rome. Among other guidebooks are ''Italy: The Places in Between'' (1970 and 1984), ''England's Green and Pleasant Land'' (1974), ''Fifth Avenue: A Very Social History'' (1978) and ''A Renaissance Tapestry: The Gonzaga of Mantua'' (1988).
        Telling Her Own Story
        Autobiographies by the soft-spoken, cosmopolitan writer are ''Bronx Primitive: Portraits in a Childhood'' (1982) and ''A Wider World: Portraits in an Adolescence'' (1986). Her brother, Michael Grobsmith, said yesterday that Miss Simon recently completed and sent to Harper & Row the manuscript of a third volume, tentatively titled ''Etchings on an Hour Glass,'' ranging from her college years through two marriages and career to her latest travels.
        Sybil S. Steinberg described Miss Simon's travel books in ''Publishers Weekly'' as being ''in a class by themselves, distinctly personal guides of rare good taste and discernment.'' J. H. Plumb, in The New York Times Book Review, called her work ''incomparable'' in making ''one of the dullest forms of literature a brilliant work of art.''
        Kate Simon, whose given name was Kaila Grobsmith, was born in a Warsaw ghetto on Dec. 5, 1912, came to this country with her family by steerage at the age of 4 and grew up in the Tremont section of the Bronx. In ''Bronx Primitive,'' she recalled vividly and unsentimentally her early years, her father, a tyrannical shoemaker, and her mother, who believed deeply in learning and in earning her own living before she married.
        Exploring Her Adolescence
        In ''A Wider World,'' Miss Simon recounted her rebellious adolescence, which helped get her into the challenging James Monroe High School, where she excelled; becoming a live-in baby sitter for an eccentric, radical family, and tentative, humorous and grim aspects of youthful sexuality. Robert Pinskey, in The New York Times Book Review, lauded her ''clean and unpretentious prose style, her aristocratic disdain for cant and her frank worldiness.''
        She earned a bachelor's degree at Hunter College, held various editorial posts, mostly rewriting, and reviewed books for The New Republic and The Nation until she began writing travel guides. She won awards from the National Book Critics Circle, the English Speaking Union and Hunter College, where, her brother said, she was to begin teaching a writing course today.
        Asked in 1986 by ''Contemporary Authors'' to advise travelers on how best to enjoy a trip, she replied: ''Go slow. If you have the time for eight countries, take five. If you're rushed to take five, take three.'' She also suggested regular eavesdropping on conversations in cafes, buses and trains and emphasized, ''Walk slowly, look, listen, smell.''
        She had been married to Dr. Stanley Goldman, who died in 1942. They had a daughter, Alexandra, who died in 1954. Miss Simon was also married to Robert Simon, a publisher, until their divorce in 1960.
        Survivors, besides her brother, who is a public health officer for the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic, include nieces and a nephew.
        A memorial service is to be scheduled soon in Manhattan.
      