
       The Rev. Dr. Margaret Ruth Eddy, a Congregationalist minister, an educator and a community leader in East Harlem for 40 years, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63 years old. In 1948, as a seminary student, Dr. Eddy was a member of the group ministry that founded the East Harlem Protestant Parish, and she remained involved there until 1972.
        The Rev. Dr. Margaret Ruth Eddy, a Congregationalist minister, an educator and a community leader in East Harlem for 40 years, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63 years old. In 1948, as a seminary student, Dr. Eddy was a member of the group ministry that founded the East Harlem Protestant Parish, and she remained involved there until 1972. She then served as pastor of the Church of the Resurrection for two years and later was dean of the East Harlem School of Faith, a leader of the East Harlem Healing Community and a member of the board of the East Harlem Churches and Community Urban Center.
        In addition, she has served on the board of East Harlem Interfaith, as well as on a public school board that encompasses East Harlem. Most recently, she was a founder and coordinator of the National Network of Biblical Storytellers. She was also a trustee of New York Theological Seminary, a member of the International Association of Women Ministers and a former visiting professor at Princeton Theological Seminary.
        Dr. Eddy was born in Cincinnati and graduated from Smith College in 1948 and earned a master of divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1951. She later attended New York Theological Seminary and earned a master's degree in sacred theology and a Doctor of Ministry degree. In 1951 she was ordained a minister in the Congregational Church, now part of the United Church of Christ.
        She is survived by her husband, the Rev. Norman C. Eddy; two daughters, Rebecca Feuerstein of Manhattan and Martha Eddy of Springfield, Mass.; a son, Timothy, of Manhattan; two brothers, Dean Ruth of Washington, and Robert Ruth of Lodi, N.Y.; a sister, Elizabeth Edwards of Cocoa Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      