
       Alan Harrison Temple, a leading private economist and banker who retired as vice chairman of the First National City Bank of New York in 1961, died last Thursday at the King Street Home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 90 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Alan Harrison Temple, a leading private economist and banker who retired as vice chairman of the First National City Bank of New York in 1961, died last Thursday at the King Street Home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 90 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        As vice chairman of the board of trustees of Columbia University, he also was deeply involved in meeting the challenge posed by the campus unrest of 1968. He headed a special trustee committee whose recommendations resulted in the first revision of the university's charter since 1810.
        For most of his tenure at the bank, now known as Citibank, Mr. Temple was the guiding light of its Monthly Letter on Business and Economic Conditions. Started in 1904 as a modest throwaway for customers interested in Treasury securities, it grew after World War II into an influential authority on the American economy. Honored by Journalism Alumni
        By 1955 the letter reached nearly 250,000 people, many important decision-makers, in 116 countries. The following year the alumni association of Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism honored him with an award for distinguished service. A 1917 graduate of from Columbia College, he had majored in journalism.
        Mr. Temple, a native of Templeville, Md., joined what was then the then National City Bank of New York in 1931 as assistant statistician after managing and editing the publication Commerce & Finance for 12 years. He was promoted to the post of bank statistician a year later.
        He became a vice president in 1941 and, as the bank's economist, rose to executive vice president in 1952. His position made him the bank's senior officer in charge of the economics department and the monthly newsletter.
        He retired after five years as a director and three years as vice chairman but continued in several other corporate directorships with the bank. In 1963, the bank recalled him to serve on its board of trustees and investment policy committee. Influential Role at Columbia
        Mr. Temple was a past chairman of the National Economic Conference Board. He was elected a trustee at Columbia in 1959 and became a trustee, as well as secretary and treasurer, at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1961.
        The Columbia campus, like some other campuses on both sides of the Atlantic, erupted in unrest the spring of 1968, culminating in a long sit-in. Mr. Temple had planned to retire as a trustee that year, but amid the campus disorder, the board asked him, as vice chairman, to form a special study panel on restructuring the university.
        Mr. Temple is survived by a son, Alan H. Jr. of Pittsford, N.Y.; two daughters, Anne Temple Crumm of Cambridge, Mass., and Nancy Temple Hammond of Fairfield, Conn.; 11 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      