
       Dr. Vincent Ellis McKelvey, an earth scientist who spent 46 years with the United States Geological Survey, seven of them as its director, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal paralysis, Friday at his home in St. Cloud, Fla. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. Vincent Ellis McKelvey, an earth scientist who spent 46 years with the United States Geological Survey, seven of them as its director, died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, spinal paralysis, Friday at his home in St. Cloud, Fla. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. McKelvey was recognized as an international authority on deep-sea mineral deposits. From 1968 to 1982, he served as scientific adviser and senior deputy to the Unites States delegation to the Law of the Sea Conference of the United Nations, where fellow delegates often depended on his ability to render complex scientific issues into plain English.
        Trained as a geologist at Syracuse University, he joined the Geological Survey, a branch of the Department of the Interior, in 1941. He was placed in charge of its explorations for uranium after World War II, was assistant chief geologist for economic and foreign geology by 1962 and was named senior research geologist three years later.
        Dr. McKelvey was named chief geologist of the Geological Survey in 1971 shortly before he became its ninth director, a post he held through 1977. Continued to Work for Agency
        From 1978 until his death, Dr. McKelvey continued to work as senior research geologist for the Geological Survey and also taught at the Florida Institute of Technology during the early 1980's.
        Established in 1879, the Geological Survey oversees the country's natural resources, including coal, ores, oil and natural gas, particularly on Federal lands and on the continental shelf offshore.
        For most of its existence, the Geological Survey worked out of the public eye, but it lost some of its anonymity in Dr. McKelvey's years as director as public interest in energy sources and the environment grew.
        With the arrival of the Carter Administration in 1977 came a fresh team of Interior Department officials, whose priorities lay in the environmental problems posed by strip mining and offshore oil drilling. Toward the end of that year, Dr. McKelvey resigned his position, saying he had been pushed out against his will and that he was never told the reason. Mountain Named After Him
        Dr. McKelvey was the recipient of many honors and a 6,680-foot-high peak in the Thiel Mountains of Antarctica was named for him in 1978 by the Interior Department's Board on Geographic names. Also, the Geological Survey set up an annual scientific symposium in his honor, the V.E. McKelvey Forum on Mineral and Energy Resources, in Denver, Colo., the third of which is scheduled for March 11 and 12.
        Dr. McKelvey was a native of Huntingdon, Pa.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Genevieve Bowman, and a son, Gregory, of Spokane, Wash.
        DR. VINCENT E. MCKELVEY, 70
      