
       John H. Alexander, a longtime law partner of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon and a specialist in Federal tax law, died of a heart attack Wednesday while at a business lunch. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John H. Alexander, a longtime law partner of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon and a specialist in Federal tax law, died of a heart attack Wednesday while at a business lunch. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Alexander, who retired in 1984, had been associated with Mudge Rose and its predecessor firms since 1928, the year he graduated from law school. One of Mr. Alexander's former partners in the firm, which today numbers about 70 partners and 180 associates, was Richard M. Nixon, from 1963 to 1968.
        After Mr. Nixon was elected President in 1968, he called on Mr. Alexander's expertise in Federal income, estate and gift taxation law by naming him chairman of the President's Task Force on Business Taxation. Mr. Alexander headed the commission in 1969 and 1970.
        At the time of his retirement, Mr. Alexander was a senior partner and head of the firm's taxation department. He had been a partner for about half a century and head of the tax department for four decades.
        Among his business clients were El Paso Natural Gas, Pepsico, Union Camp Corporation, Stone & Webster and Booz, Allen & Hamilton Inc.
        Mr. Alexander continued to serve the firm as a counsel on tax matters until his death.
        John Heald Alexander was born in Denver on Nov. 15, 1904. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale University in 1926, and his law degree, cum laude, from the Yale Law School in 1928, where he was an editor of the law journal.
        He is survived by his wife, Edna; a son, John Jr. of Millis, Mass.; a daughter, Judith St. George of Essex Fells, N.J., and nine grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held at 9:30 A.M. tomorrow at the Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue and 92d Street. The burial will be private.
        JOHN ALEXANDER, 82
      