
       David Katz, who founded the Queens Symphony Orchestra in 1953 and oversaw its growth from an amateur civic group to a fully professional, 80-member ensemble, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 62 years old, and had conducted his last concert with the orchestra on April 26.
        David Katz, who founded the Queens Symphony Orchestra in 1953 and oversaw its growth from an amateur civic group to a fully professional, 80-member ensemble, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 62 years old, and had conducted his last concert with the orchestra on April 26.
        ''David Katz contributed greatly to the cultural life and vitality of the borough,'' Borough President Claire Shulman of Queens said. ''We will miss him dearly.''
        Born in Mishawaka, Ind., Mr. Katz studied conducting and clarinet on a fellowship at the Juilliard School of Music, from which he received a master's degree in 1948. After graduation, he became conductor of the Brooklyn Community Symphony Orchestra. He founded the Queens Symphony five years later with his wife, Jeanne, who served as executive director of the ensemble until her death in 1969.
        Mr. Katz became associate conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra under Leopold Stokowski in 1961 and stayed in that post until 1967. After a 1965 concert at Carnegie Hall, a reviewer for The New York Times praised Mr. Katz's conducting for its ''warmth and naturalness.'' Mr. Katz was involved in such notable Stokowski projects as the 1965 premiere of the Ives Fourth Symphony, during which he conducted the percussion section. Founded an Arts Camp
        Mr. Katz was a guest conductor with various orchestras, among them the Pittsburgh Symphony and Tokyo Symphony. In 1969, he founded the Long Lake Performing and Creative Arts Camp in Long Lake, N.Y.
        The Queens Symphony occupied most of Mr. Katz's time, however. It became fully professional in 1977 and made its Carnegie Hall debut, under his direction, in 1980. Today, its budget of $800,000 allows the ensemble to give 47 performances each season. In recognition of his work with the orchestra, Mr. Katz received the Mayor's Award of Honor for Arts and Culture from Mayor Koch in 1982.
        Mr. Katz is survived by his three sons, Michael, Matthew and Marc, all of Manhattan, and a daughter, Melinda, of Forest Hills.
        DAVID KATZ, 62, A CONDUCTOR
      