
       Wesley T. Hanson Jr., a retired vice president of the Eastman Kodak Company who helped usher in the modern era of amateur color photography, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Wednesday at Genesee Hospital in Rochester. He was 74 years old and lived in the Rochester suburb of Brighton.
        Wesley T. Hanson Jr., a retired vice president of the Eastman Kodak Company who helped usher in the modern era of amateur color photography, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Wednesday at Genesee Hospital in Rochester. He was 74 years old and lived in the Rochester suburb of Brighton.
        Dr. Hanson, who joined Kodak as a research chemist in 1934, was the inventor of a process in 1943 that greatly improved the quality of the color in photographic prints.
        Kodacolor film had been introduced by the company the year before, but the Hanson process, known as the color coupler masking system, overcame deficiencies in the product. The system was incorporated into Kodacolor film in 1945.
        The process also helped improve the quality of color motion picture film.
        In an interview last July for a Kodak oral history, Dr. Hanson recalled getting the idea while lying in bed one February night. The next morning he jotted it down and brought it to the lab. 'We Were Off!'
        ''That first day we ran an experiment and it gave some indicatiion of working,'' he said. ''We were off!''
        According to Kodak, all worldwide manufacturers of color film now use the same basic masking system to provide purity in the reproduction of colors.
        Shortly after inventing the system, Dr. Hanson was transferred to the United States' Manhattan Project in Oak Ridge, Tenn., where he did research for two years on uranium for the first atomic bomb. He returned to Kodak in 1945.
        When he retired from Kodak in 1977, Dr. Hanson was, in addition to being a vice president, director of Kodak's research laboratories, then employing about 2,000 people and spending more than $300 million a year to develop new products. 'He Never Sought Credit'
        In a statement yesterday, Colby H. Chandler, Kodak's chairman and chief executive officer, said that Dr. Hanson was ''the embodiment of virtually every personal trait many of us try to instill in ourselves and admire in others. He was extremely warm, personable, considerate and helpful. He never sought credit for his accomplishments for the company or for the community.''
        Dr. Hanson was chairman of the board of trustees of the International Museum of Photography at the George Eastman House in Rochester at the time of his death.
        Wesley Turnell Hanson Jr. was born in Carrollton, Ga., on May 28, 1912. He spent most of his boyhood on his parents' farm in Smyrna, Ga., near Atlanta, and graduated from high school at age 14. He had to wait a year before entering the University of Georgia, from which he received his bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry. He was 21 when he received his Ph.D. at the University of California at Berkeley. He joined Kodak the same year. When he returned to the company after Oak Ridge in 1945, Dr. Hanson continued research in color process development and, in 1949, was appointed to the first of several management posts. He became assistant director of research in 1961 and director in 1972.
        He was the author of ''Principles of Color Photography,'' published in 1953, and numerous scientific papers. Among other awards, he received the Herbert T. Kalmus Medal from the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers in 1956 and the society's Progress Medal award in 1966.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie; two sons, Wesley 3d of Saratoga, Calif. and Thomas of Chester, N.J.; two daughters, Eleonore Balbach of Minneapolis and Dr. Renee Newton of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Hiram of Madison, Ga., and 10 grandchildren.
        WESLEY HANSON JR., 74, DIES
      