
       Douglas Sirk, the director whose Hollywood melodramas included ''Magnificent Obsession'' and ''Written on the Wind,'' died Wednesday in Lugano at age 86.
        Douglas Sirk, the director whose Hollywood melodramas included ''Magnificent Obsession'' and ''Written on the Wind,'' died Wednesday in Lugano at age 86.
        Mr. Sirk was born Detlef Sierck on April 26, 1900, to Danish parents in Hamburg.
        Mr. Sirk began as a journalist, then became an actor and went on to direct productions in Hamburg and other German cities. He acquired a leftist, avant-garde reputation with Bertolt Brecht plays and switched to the prominent U.F.A. film company in 1934 to escape Nazi theater censorship. His first two major movies made a star of actress Zarah Leander.
        The director fled Germany in 1937 with his Jewish wife, Hilde Jary, and rejected an appeal by Josef Goebbels to return.
        They reached the United States via Spain and France, and he changed his name. His American directing debut was the 1942 film ''Hitler's Madman'' about Reinhard Heydrich, the Nazi official whose assassination brought a reprisal massacre at Lidice, Czechoslovakia.
        Mr. Sirk's Hollywood breakthrough in the 1950's followed several independent productions and a brief but unsatisfying return to Germany soon after World War II. Made Rock Hudson a Star
        The director made Rock Hudson a star with ''Magnificent Obsession'' and worked with Barbara Stanwyck, Jane Wyman and many other stars. His other films included ''All I Desire'' (1953), ''There's Always Tomorrow'' (1955) and ''Written On the Wind'' (1956). After ''Imitation of Life'' in 1959, he left films and returned to the theater in Europe.
        He became ill in the early 1960's and came to this village near Lake Lugano in southernmost Switzerland.
        After years of obscurity, his works have enjoyed a recent revival in Europe, with prominent fans including the French film maker Jean-Luc Godard and the late West German director Rainer Werner Fassbinder.
        Mr. Fassbinder once wrote: ''I have seen six films by Douglas Sirk. The most beautiful in the world were among them.''
        Miss Stanwyck said today in Los Angeles: ''He was not only an excellent director but a fine gentleman and I am very, very sorry to hear of his death.''
        The producer Ross Hunter, who made 11 movies with Mr. Sirk, said in Los Angeles: ''I can't begin to tell you what kind of man he was. We did one of the greatest tongue-ind-cheek movies of all time, 'Son of Cochise,' which we did so Sirk could get to know Rock Hudson and Barbara Rush, who were going to star in 'Magnificent Obsession'.
        ''There's a whole cult of Sirk aficionados.''
      