
       Raymond C. Harwood, a retired president and chairman of the board of Harper & Row, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 81 years old and had lived in Asheville.
        Raymond C. Harwood, a retired president and chairman of the board of Harper & Row, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 81 years old and had lived in Asheville.
        In robust health, he had suffered a coronary on June 12 while working out at a local YMCA.
        Mr. Harwood joined what was then Harper & Brothers in 1930 as assistant treasurer and served the publishing company in top executive posts through much of the tenure of its legendary leader, Cass Canfield. Mr. Harwood became president in 1955, a period of swift growth for the company.
        Harper branched into textbook publishing when it merged in 1961 with Row, Petersen & Company and became Harper & Row. Mr. Canfield took the post of senior editor in 1967, at which point Mr. Harwood became chairman. He retired at the end of 1968. Active in Civic Affairs
        He was executive vice-president in 1954 when the board of Princeton University Press elected him a trustee, the first person not a Princeton graduate to be so honored. He served as president of the board from 1968 to 1971.
        After moving from Long Island to his wife's native North Carolina, Mr. Harwood became active in civic affairs in Asheville. Among other things, he was on the board of the Asheville Arts Museum and, as a member of the American Arbitration Association, acted as an arbitrator for the Better Business Bureau.
        Mr. Harwood was born in Brooklyn and graduated from New York University in 1926. He started out as a certified public accountant with a New York company before moving to Harper, where he became corporate treasurer in 1943, general manager in 1945 and executive vice president five years later.
        He was a past chairman of the Franklin Book Programs and a director of the Book-of-the-Month Club.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan Underwood Harwood; two daughters, Ann Skoglund of Asheville, and Joan Hazelton of London, and Wilmington, Del.; and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M. Tuesday at the Trinity Episcopal Church in Asheville.
      