
       Abram Chasins, a composer and pianist and the former music director of radio station WQXR, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and had a second home in Los Angeles.
        Abram Chasins, a composer and pianist and the former music director of radio station WQXR, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and had a second home in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Chasins, who was associated with WQXR from 1941 to 1965, became the music director in 1946, two years after the station's acquisition by The New York Times. With his help, it became one of the country's most celebrated and emulated AM-FM music stations. His appearances as host on major programs and his initiation of educational projects in conjunction with the New York public high school system earned numerous commendations, a large audience and a Peabody Award for excellence in broadcasting.
        Mr. Chasins composed more than 100 piano pieces. His ''Three Chinese Pieces'' were particularly popular; Josef Lhevinne, Josef Hoffmann and other famous pianists included them in their repertory. An orchestral version of the work became the first American work to be conducted by Arturo Toscanini with the New York Philharmonic, on April 8, 1931. His 24 Preludes for Piano (1928) have long been used as teaching pieces.
        Following a 1972 lecture tour to promote his book ''Music at the Crossroads,'' which took colleges and universities to task for not adequately preparing music students for the professional world, he joined the University of Southern California as musician-in-residence.
        Recognizing the need for a non-commercial arts and information station on the West Coast, Mr. Chasins reorganized the student-run radio station KUSC into a channel for classical and modern music, and in less than five years, it became a nationally known broadcasting entity. He retired in 1977, a year after he had received the award of the National Federation of Music Clubs for ''outstanding service to American music during the Bicentennial year.'' Studied at Juilliard and Curtis
        Mr. Chasins was born in Manhattan. He was a graduate of the Ethical Culture schools and took special courses at Columbia University Extension School. He also studied piano with Ernest Hutcheson and composition with Rubin Goldmark at the Juilliard School of Music in Manhattan and at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, where he taught piano from 1926 to 1935. In the summer of 1931 he took a course in musical analysis wth Donald Tovey in London. His career as a pianist lasted from 1927 until 1947, when he retired from the concert stage.
        A protege of Josef Hofmann, Mr. Chasins was the soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra for his first piano concerto in January 1929, and for his second concerto in March 1933 under the direction of Leopold Stokowski.
        In 1960 he spent a month in Israel at the invitation of the government as special advisor on music festivals and education.
        Mr. Chasins was the author of a number of books on music and musicians, including ''Speaking of Pianists'' (1958), ''The Van Cliburn Legend'' (1959), ''The Appreciation of Music'' (1966), ''Music at the Crossroads'' (1972), and a biography of Leopold Stokowski entitled ''Stoki, the Incredible Apollo'' (1978).
        He is survived by his wife, Constance Keene, a concert pianist.
      