
       Georges Frederic Doriot, a professor at the Harvard Business School for four decades who was widely credited with inspiring and training more leaders of American corporations than any other person, died of lung cancer in Boston yesterday. He was 87 years old and lived in Boston.
        Georges Frederic Doriot, a professor at the Harvard Business School for four decades who was widely credited with inspiring and training more leaders of American corporations than any other person, died of lung cancer in Boston yesterday. He was 87 years old and lived in Boston.
        Mr. Doriot was a founder and the first president of the American Research and Development Corporation, formed in 1946 as the first venture capital concern in the United States that was not family-owned.
        Under his guidance, American Research and Development made its most successful investment in 1960, when it gave $70,000 to a young researcher who used it to start the Digital Equipment Corporation. Only 12 years later, the computer manufacturer had grown from three employees to 7,000.
        Mr. Doriot remained president of American Research and Development until 1972, when it was merged with Textron. An All-Encompassing Course
        As a professor at the Harvard Business School from 1926 to 1966, Mr. Doriot (pronounced DORE-ee-oh) was the instructor of a popular second-year course, with the misleading title ''Manufacturing,'' that was taken by more than 7,000 candidates for master's degrees in business administration.
        The course was his own creation, with which he attempted to imbue his students with his own high ideals of how a businesman should behave. It included an all-encompassing philosophy of business life, covering everything from how to select an investment banker to how to select a wife. It stressed hard work, self-improvement, leadership, creativity and other common sense virtues.
        To his students and to managers of companies in which American Research and Development invested, he poured out a steady stream of aphorisms. ''Always remember that someone, somewhere, is making a product that will make your product obsolete,'' he would say. Or, ''Be friendly but not chummy with your lawyers.'' Like a Father With His Children
        In his role as a venture capitalist, Mr. Doriot thought of himself as someone who nurtured others' dreams. Comparing his role to that of a father with his children, he refused to give up on a business that was going through hard times. ''A history of profits is much more important in the long run than a profit in any one year,'' he said.
        Born in France on Sept. 24, 1899, he graduated from the University of Paris in 1920, came to the United States in 1921 and enrolled in the Harvard Business School. In 1926, he became an assistant dean and associate professor of industrial management at Harvard. He was appointed a full professor in 1929 and was named professor emeritus on his retirement in 1966.
        When the United States entered World War II in 1941, he became a naturalized citizen and was called to active duty as an Army officer. He was assigned to the War Department, where he became deputy director of research and development for the general staff. He was promoted to brigadier general in 1945 and then, after the war, resumed teaching at Harvard.
        Mr. Doriot also served for many years as president of the French Library in Boston, an interest he shared with his wife, Edna, who was president from 1966 until her death in 1978.
        GEORGE F. DORIOT DIES AT 87
      