
       F. Donald Nixon, a younger brother of former President Richard M. Nixon, whose fortunes also became tangled in the web of the Watergate scandal, died Saturday at Hoag Memorial Hospital in Whittier, Calif. He was 72 years old.
        F. Donald Nixon, a younger brother of former President Richard M. Nixon, whose fortunes also became tangled in the web of the Watergate scandal, died Saturday at Hoag Memorial Hospital in Whittier, Calif. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Nixon's death was disclosed by spokesmen for the White-Emerson Mortuary in Whittier. Jon Swedberg, one of the spokesmen, said Mr. Nixon had been undergoing hospital treatment for pneumonia.
        Mr. Nixon testified at the 1974 conspiracy trial of former Attorney General John M. Mitchell and former Commerce Secretary Maurice Stans regarding campaign financing. Both were acquitted.
        Shortly before he testified Mr. Nixon took early retirement in the spring of 1974 from his position as a vice president of the Marriott Corporation, the hotel and restaurant chain. 'Harassment' by Investigators
        Months later, he reported that ''harassment'' by Senate investigators had deprived him of his livelihood and left him in poor health and heavily in debt.
        Over the years, Mr. Nixon tried his hand at various business ventures and investments, not all of which proved successful. But in 1970, J. Willard Marriott, a friend and supporter of President Nixon, hired him as vice president for community and industry relations.
        Donald Nixon first came to national attention in 1960 during his brother's unsuccessful Presidential campaign. It became known that in 1954 Howard Hughes, the billionaire, had lent him $205,000 in a futile effort to rescue a chain of inexpensive restaurants that Mr. Nixon was operating in Southern California under the name Nixon's Inc.
        The disclosure of the transaction was widely believed to have contibuted heavily to Richard Nixon's narrow loss to John F. Kennedy in 1960. Donald Nixon filed for bankruptcy the following year.
        The loan was again an issue in Richard Nixon's unsuccessful campaign in 1962 to become Governor of California.
        In his book ''Six Crises,'' Richard Nixon wrote that his brother came to him the day after his defeat by Mr. Kennedy and ''said with his voice breaking: 'I hope I haven't been responsible for losing the election.' '' Richard Nixon added that he had assured his that it was not his fault.
        In the Watergate episode, it was reported that in his first term, President Nixon directed the Secret Service to put a wiretap on his brother's telephone in an apparent effort to prevent embarrassing business deals that might have spoiled his 1972 re-election bid from being disclosed. Watergate investigators were also told that the Secret Service was ordered to keep him under physical surveillance President Nixon said he had ordered the wiretap to monitor ''others who were trying to get him, perhaps, to use improper influence'' with the Nixon Administration.
        In addition to the former President, Mr. Nixon, who was born in Whittier, is survived by their youngest brother, Edward; his wife, Clara Jane Nixon; a daughter, Lawerene Anfinson; two sons, Donald and Rick Nixon, and five grandchildren.
        It was uncertain last night whether the former President, who is recuperating from prostate surgery, would be able to attend the funeral service planned for today in Whittier.
      