
       Sam Wagstaff, a former museum curator who became a leading collector of photography, died of pneumonia Wednesday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old.
        Sam Wagstaff, a former museum curator who became a leading collector of photography, died of pneumonia Wednesday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old.
        In 1984 Mr. Wagstaff's photography holdings - comprising at least 2,500 masterworks - went to the J. Paul Getty Museum for a price said to be in the neighborhood of $5 million. Saying he needed the challenge of building another collection, he turned to 19th-century American silver. A show of more than 100 examples from his silver collection will open March 20 at the New-York Historical Society.
        Known in the art world for his keen and adventurous eye, Mr. Wagstaff acquired for several institutions the work of many now well-known artists at early stages of their careers. As curator of contemporary art at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, for instance, he gave the sculptor Tony Smith his first museum exposure.
        Mr. Wagstaff overcame an early disregard for photography and, under the tutelage of the photographer Robert Mapplethorpe, became an avid collector in 1973. He soon developed a reputation for his daring taste and his willingness to depart from established names. His idea, he said in an interview two years ago, was to ''outfox the other guy by finding new 'masterpieces.' '' And he noted that the special photograph he looked for as a collector was the one that took a subject beyond ''just being a picture of something and let it float as an invention.'' Sophistication and Freshness
        Yesterday, John Szarkowski, director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, praised Mr. Wagstaff's ''salutary influence on the field.'' And he added, ''He came to photography with great sophistication but a very fresh viewpoint. He knew what was important about it and where its vitality lay.''
        A fund in Mr. Wagstaff's name for the purchase of photographs has been started at the Metropolitan Museum of Art by the dealer Daniel Wolf.
        Born on Nov. 4, 1921, in New York City, Samuel J. Wagstaff Jr. was the son of a lawyer from an old New York family and Olga Piorkowska, a fashion artist. He graduated from Yale University and served as an ensign in the Navy during World War II, taking part in the D-day landing at Omaha Beach. After the war, he studied Renaissance art at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts. He was curator of contemporary art at the Wadsworth Atheneum from 1961 to 1968 and then at the Detroit Institute of Arts from 1968 to 1971.
        He is survived by a sister, Judith W. Jefferson of New York, two nephews, a niece and a grandniece.
      