
       Peter Coe, a British director who reached a career peak in 1961 when he had three hits running simultaneously in London's West End - ''The Miracle Worker,'' ''The World of Suzie Wong'' and ''Oliver!'' - was killed in an automobile accident in England on May 25, his family disclosed. He was 59 years old.
        Peter Coe, a British director who reached a career peak in 1961 when he had three hits running simultaneously in London's West End - ''The Miracle Worker,'' ''The World of Suzie Wong'' and ''Oliver!'' - was killed in an automobile accident in England on May 25, his family disclosed. He was 59 years old.
        In a long career, Mr. Coe staged musicals and dramas around the world. On Broadway, he directed ''Mister Lincoln'' in 1980, received a Tony nomination for best director in 1981 for ''A Life,'' and won the Tony Award for best revival in 1982 for ''Othello'' (although Zoe Caldwell was called in as director of the play, which starred James Earl Jones and Christopher Plummer, during the later stages of its pre-Broadway tour).
        Mr. Coe was best known to New York audiences for his direction of ''Oliver!'' The Lionel Bart musical, adapted from Charles Dickens's ''Oliver Twist,'' first opened here in 1963, played 775 performances at the Imperial and Shubert Theaters, then went on a national tour. The musical reopened in 1965 at the Martin Beck Theater and was revived at the Mark Hellinger Theater in 1984, again under Mr. Coe's direction.
        In addition to staging ''Oliver!'' in Australia, Mr. Coe directed ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' in Switzerland, ''Twelfth Night'' in India and Sri Lanka, ''Julius Caesar'' at the Habimah Theater in Israel and ''Macbeth'' at Stratford in Canada. Began as an Actor
        In 1980, Mr. Coe served as artistic director of the Citadel Theater in Edmonton, Alberta, producing works by Canadian, British and American playwrights. The following year he was appointed artistic director of the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., where he staged ''Henry V,'' with Christopher Plummer in the title role.
        In 1982, Mr. Coe directed Christopher Walken as ''Hamlet'' in Connecticut, a production that was poorly received. Reviewing the play in The New York Times, Mel Gussow called it a ''travesty'' and wrote that ''it is Mr. Coe as director - and as adapter - who is the evening's chief culprit.''
        Mr. Coe began his career as an actor in the 1950's after studying at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. But after a few years, he began to direct plays in small theaters, including the Queens Theater in Hornchurch.
        He went to London in 1959 to open the new Mermaid Theater with a musical version of Henry Fielding's 18th-century play ''Lock Up Your Daughters'' in a unused warehouse. It ran for nearly a year and established Mr. Coe as a director.
        This year, Mr. Coe served as artistic director of the Churchill Theater in Bromley, south of London.
        He was married four times and had one son and two daughters.
        PETER COE, THEATER DIRECTOR
      