
       Arthur Drexler, for 35 years the highly influential curator and director of the Department of Architecture and Design at the Museum of Modern Art, died of pancreatic cancer in New York yesterday. He was 61 years old.
        Arthur Drexler, for 35 years the highly influential curator and director of the Department of Architecture and Design at the Museum of Modern Art, died of pancreatic cancer in New York yesterday. He was 61 years old.
        From 1951 through 1985, Mr. Drexler interpreted modern architecture and design through dozens of important exhibitions, working first as curator of the department and from 1956 as its director. ''His medium of communication - exhibitions - has been encyclopedic,'' stated the New York Chapter of the American Instute of Architects in a citation on the occasion of his Award of Merit, in 1982.
        The shows themselves, ranging from textiles to automobiles to historic preservation to the work of great modern architects, occupied an important and sometimes historic place in 20th-century design history. Some proved instrumental in establishing international reputations for architects and designers. As director of the department, Mr. Drexler also was responsible for acquiring the industrial design objects and architectural drawings that would enter the museum's collection. The museum is one of the few in the world with an established architecture and design department and a regular program of exhibitions and publications.
        Through his exhibitions, Mr. Drexler interpreted design broadly, starting in 1951 with ''Eight Automobiles,'' which was followed two years later by ''Ten Automobiles.'' (Cars were an abiding interest; he would produce two more automobile shows.) In 1956 he organized ''Textiles USA'' and in 1964, ''Twentieth Century Engineering,'' which documented great engineering feats, such as dams and bridges, remarkable for their beauty, function and overwhelming size. Presented the Unexpected
        Mr. Drexler exhibited the work of such modern masters as Le Corbusier, Louis I. Kahn and Richard Neutra, but sometimes the exhibitions were, in a museum of modern art, unexpected -such as his 1958 show on the mystic turn-of-the-century Spanish architect Antonio Gaudi. In 1959, he showed revolutionary structures designed by R. Buckminster Fuller, and placed a geodesic dome, a high-tech mast and a space frame in the museum's serene garden, in the company of bronze figures by Lachaise and Maillol. It was a display of showmanship that succeeded in drawing thousands to what was essentially a show of structural engineering.
        In recent years, Mr. Drexler's programs were criticized for being cautious and conservative, but he did produce exhibitions that were highly polemic in the field and radical for the museum. In 1975, at a time when the architectural profession was starting to reassess the tenets of modernism, he mounted the watershed show ''Architecture of the Ecole des Beaux Arts,'' with a display of commanding Beaux Arts renderings, most never exhibited before. The exhibition helped reintroduce subjects long banished from architectural practice and helped reinstate drawing itself, in a more elaborate form, as a tool of investigation for architects.
        It was a show that catalyzed the profession, and was followed a decade later, after post-modernism had become an established household word, by another of Mr. Drexler's challenges to the status quo - the recent Mies van der Rohe Centennial Exhibition. Long an admirer of Mies, Mr. Drexler had negotiated for the museum the gift of the Mies van der Rohe archives - one of the most important holdings of material on a 20th-century master architect. Designed Furniture
        Mr. Drexler, who was born in New York City in 1925, attended the High School of Music and Art and completed a year at Cooper Union before entering the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1942. After the war, he worked as an architectural draftsman in New York, and in 1947 joined the office of the architect and designer George Nelson, where he designed furniture and started writing on design and architecture for various publications.
        From 1948 to 1950 he served as architecture editor of Interiors magazine. One of his assignments was a story on tne architect Philip Johnson's glass house; Mr. Johnson later invited Mr. Drexler to join the museum's architecture and design department, which he then headed. Mr. Drexler's numerous publications include catalogues of company exhibitions and books published independently. In 1977 he was awarded the American Institute of Architects Medal, one of many awards for his work at the museum.
        Mr. Drexler was one of the major in-house shapers of the museum's recent expansion, and he oversaw the growth of his own department's space, which was more than doubled in the new facility. It remains one of the few departments within American museums devoted to the permanent display of architectural drawings and industrial design objects.
        In December of 1985, Mr. Drexler resigned his position for reasons of health.
        He is survived by his sister, Carol Drexler, of Pasadena, Calif.
      