
       Sammy Kaye, the leader of one of the most popular ''sweet bands'' of the swing era, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 77 years old. A bandleader for some 50 years, Mr. Kaye had more than 100 hit records, and his slogan, ''Swing and Sway With Sammy Kaye,'' became known throughout the country after he introduced it in the mid-1930's.
        Sammy Kaye, the leader of one of the most popular ''sweet bands'' of the swing era, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 77 years old. A bandleader for some 50 years, Mr. Kaye had more than 100 hit records, and his slogan, ''Swing and Sway With Sammy Kaye,'' became known throughout the country after he introduced it in the mid-1930's. The signature of the band's biggest hits, such as ''The Old Lamp-Lighter'' and ''Harbor Lights,'' was a soothing reedy ensemble sound, stylistically descended from Guy Lombardo, that had more sway than swing.
        During World War II, millions of people danced cheek to cheek to such hits as ''(There'll Be Bluebirds Over) The White Cliffs of Dover,'' ''My Buddy,'' ''There Goes That Song Again'' and ''Harbor Lights,'' which Mr. Kaye and his band performed live on his long-running NBC network show, ''Sunday Serenade,'' and also recorded for Victor Records. On Dec. 7, 1941, Mr. Kaye was conducting on the program when the announcer Ben Grauer broke in to announce that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor. After the program, Mr. Kaye went home and wrote the song ''Remember Pearl Harbor,'' which became an immediate hit. Singers Were the Soloists
        The sandy-haired blue-eyed maestro played the clarinet and the alto saxophone, but since he was not an instrumental virtuoso such as Benny Goodman or Artie Shaw, he did not feature himself on the instruments. The soloists were almost invariably vocalists. Among the best-known of the many singers to work with the band were Charlie Wilson, Tommy Ryan, Jimmy Brown, Clyde Burke, Arthur Wright, Allan Foster, Don Cornell, Billy Williams, Nancy Norman and Tony Alamo. At one point in 1941, the band featured six singers. Its most famous vocal alumnus was Mr. Cornell, who sang such hits as ''Careless Hands,'' ''Room Full of Roses'' and ''It Isn't Fair.'' Hal Linden, who later became well known as a stage and television actor, also played saxophone in the band briefly during the 1950's.
        Sammy Kaye's band was well-known for stage gimmicks and routines in which the band members interacted with the audience. In his most famous routine, ''So You Want to Lead a Band,'' members of the audience were invited to conduct and compete for Sammy Kaye batons and champagne. He Started in Engineering
        The conductor was born in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood and attended Ohio University on a track scholarship. Though his goal was a degree in civil engineering, he soon became involved in extracurricular musical activities, and after graduation he opened a campus place called the Varsity Inn. Of Czechoslovak descent, he took elocution lessons and prided himself on his smooth all-American accent. Years later, when Lawrence Welk became popular, Mr. Kaye good-humoredly chastised himself for having worked so hard to disguise his foreign ancestry. The band won attention in 1935 when it broadcast coast to coast on the NBC network from the Cleveland Country Club. By the time it made its New York debut in 1938 at the Commodore Hotel, it was already nationally known.
        ''Kaye always kept his ear attuned to the times and to the dancers,'' wrote George T. Simon, a swing historian was a writer-producer for Mr. Kaye's television series in the late 50's. ''He was adept at setting ideal tempos for dancing, at mixing his selections to get the most out of his sets, at pacing each set so that there would never be a lull between numbers, at fronting his band with grace and charm and at supplying satisfying sounds for those unable to appreciate and/or comprehend what the more musical bands were playing.'' #16 Years of Hits The Sammy Kaye Orchestra's first major hit, in 1937, was a version of the title song from the movie ''Rosalie.'' A steady stream of hit records continued for the next 16 years, including ''Love Walked In,'' ''All Ashore,'' ''Hurry Home,'' ''Penny Serenade,'' ''Dream Valley,'' ''Daddy,'' ''Remember Pearl Harbor,'' ''I Left My Heart at the Stage Door Canteen,'' ''Chickery Chick,'' ''I'm a Big Girl Now,'' ''The Gypsy,'' ''That's My Desire,'' ''Serenade of the Bells,'' ''Careless Hands,'' ''Room Full of Roses,'' ''The Four Winds and the Seven Seas,'' ''It Isn't Fair,'' ''Harbor Lights'' and ''Walkin' to Missouri.''
        Mr. Kaye was a friend of President Nixon and performed at the inaugurations of both Presidents Nixon and Reagan. A successful businessman and longtime New York City resident, he became wealthy through investments in publishing, bowling alleys and other ventures.
        Mr. Kaye's marriage ended in divorce. There are no immediate survivors. A funeral service will be held at 10 A.M. tomorrow at St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street.
      