
       Earl Wilson, who chronicled New York's night life for four decades in a chatty syndicated column that originated in The New York Post, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. He was 79 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        Earl Wilson, who chronicled New York's night life for four decades in a chatty syndicated column that originated in The New York Post, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Yonkers. He was 79 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        Mr. Wilson, who had suffered from Parkinson's disease for several years, was admitted to the medical center on Dec. 14 with pneumonia and subsequently suffered a stroke, according to Jodi Horton, a spokesman for the hospital. The former columnist died at 4:30 P.M., she said. She added that the hospital's policy was to not release the cause of death.
        Billed as the newspaper's ''Saloon Editor,'' he prowled the city's cabarets, bars and other Broadway spots in search of tidbits for his column, which was titled ''It Happened Last Night'' for most of its run. His readers came to expect, and were usually rewarded by finding, the results of the columnist's copious research into the physical endowments of stage and film starlets.
        But in the years between 1942, when he started his six-times-a-week column, and 1983, when he retired, he also captured the pulse of show business and was able to sustain a gossip column when many of his rivals found their audiences dwindling. In the late 1960's his column was carried by 175 newspapers across the country. Accompanied by 'B.W.'
        Mr. Wilson worked an 18-hour day -much of it in the after-dark hours. Typically, he rose in late morning at his West End Avenue apartment, telephoned news sources and took reports from several assistants. About 8 P.M. his work pace intensified when he set out for dinner at Toots Shor's or a similar theater-district restaurant, invariably accompanied by his wife, Rosemary, known to his readers as ''B.W.'' (for Beautiful Wife). The couple then made the rounds of night spots until 2 A.M. or 3 A.M., when it was time to return home to the typewriter.
        Harvey Earl Wilson was born into a farm family in Rockford, Ohio, and got a $15-a-week job as sports editor of The Piqua Daily Call by writing stories free while in high school. He later earned a journalism degree from Ohio State University and worked for newspapers in Columbus and Akron and for the International News Service before moving to The Washington Post.
        In 1935, Mr. Wilson made it to New York with the help of Ruth McKenney, who had been a colleague of his on The Ohio State Lantern, and went on to work for The New York Post and later gained fame as the author of ''My Sister Eileen.''
        Ms. McKenney found Mr. Wilson quarters in a rooming house off Washington Square and it was there that he met Rosemary Lyons, a secretary from East St. Louis, Ill.
        Mr. Wilson was the author of several books, most of them drawn from his columns. For several years Mr. Wilson hosted talk shows on local radio stations and in 1957 was the host of a segment of the ''Tonight Show'' on NBC-TV.
        Mrs. Wilson died last February. Surviving is a son, Earl Jr. of Manhattan.
        EARL WILSON DIES AT AGE 79
      