
       Leo D. Hochstetter, a public relations consultant and journalist, died yesterday at his home in Bethesda, Md., after a long illness. He was 76 years old.
        Leo D. Hochstetter, a public relations consultant and journalist, died yesterday at his home in Bethesda, Md., after a long illness. He was 76 years old.
        Mr. Hochstetter was an American member of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration's mission to Yugoslavia after World War II.
        In 1946, Mr. Hochstetter was removed from his post and ordered to Washington after what he said was a disagreement over efforts by the Russian chief of the mission to censor press releases.
        Mr. Hochstetter, who was born in Chicago, graduated with highest honors from the University of Chicago. He earned a law degree from George Washington University and attended the London School of Economics.
        In the late 1930's he was a reporter for The Washington Times-Herald and edited The Federal Record-C.I.O., a union newspaper. Service in World War II
        He joined the Office of War Information in World War II as chief news editor and was assigned to the Ninth Air Force with the rank of Colonel. He was wounded and received a Purple Heart.
        After the war, Mr. Hochstetter moved to Turkey, where he was a free-lance correspondent for CBS News, Time and the North American Newspaper Aliance. He was named director of information in Turkey for the European Recovery Plan, later known as the Marshall Plan. He later served in the same capacity in Indochina.
        Mr. Hochstetter moved to Washington in 1950 and worked in the Marshall Plan's East-West trade division under W. Averell Harriman.
        He joined the Motion Picture Export Association of America in 1953. Later he was named a vice president of the association and its Washington lobbyist. Consultant to Ad Group
        In the mid-1970's, he became a vice president in the Washington office of the Interpublic Group of Companies, a holding company for advertising agencies, including McCann-Erickson Worldwide.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Hochstetter was a consultant to Interpublic and other companies, an English-language correspondent for Gunaydin, a newspaper in Istanbul, and a columnist for The Frederick (Md.) News-Post.
        He is survived by his wife, Genevieve; two sons, Leo D. Jr., of Hong Kong, and Frederick, of Bethesda; a daughter, Karen, of Bethesda; a sister, Rose Plotkin, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      