
       Federico Mompou, whose miniature, atmospheric songs and piano pieces were championed by such notable performers as Arthur Rubinstein and Montserrat Caballe, died early yesterday morning at his home in Barcelona, Spain, his wife reported. He was 94 years old.
        Federico Mompou, whose miniature, atmospheric songs and piano pieces were championed by such notable performers as Arthur Rubinstein and Montserrat Caballe, died early yesterday morning at his home in Barcelona, Spain, his wife reported. He was 94 years old.
        Mr. Mompou's music was colored by the two major influences in his life -his Catalan folk heritage and the influence of the French modernists of his youth, principally Debussy and Satie. A shy man, he never aggressively propagated his music or sought ambitiously to write in the grand, large-scale forms that invite worldly success. He also worked in a highly personalized, simple, folklike idiom that ran counter to the main trends of rationalist modernism. But there were those, performers and audiences alike, who loved his music, and kept it alive.
        After a concert in Alice Tully Hall in February 1983 in honor of his 90th birthday, Allen Hughes, writing in The New York Times, called him ''one of Spain's most cherished musical figures.''
        Born in Barcelona on April 16, 1893, Mr. Mompou studied piano at the Conservatorio del Liceo and gave his first public recital at the age of 15. Inspired to study in France after hearing Marguerite Long play the music of Faure, he arrived in Paris in 1911 armed with a letter of recommendation from Granados. Neo-Primitive Style
        His shyness discouraged him from a performing career, however, and pointed him toward composition. Satie's music in particular encouraged him to develop a deliberately simple, neo-primitive style. An early Minimalist, he sought to achieve deep emotional effects through the sparest of musical means. That meant not just a predilection for folk and popular sources and for repetitive ostinato effects, but a disinclination to modulate or otherwise develop his musical materials.
        Mr. Mompou returned to his native Barcelona when World War I broke out in 1914, but went back to Paris in 1921; in 1941 he moved back to Barcelona for good. In subsequent years he was honored by both Spain and France, but he remained a retiring man, mostly playing his compositions in private for friends.
        Nearly all of Mr. Mompou's more than 200 works are moody piano pieces or songs in a slow tempo. But despite their lack of trendiness, his scores won warm admirers, who found in them an evocativeness and a religious intensity missing in much other 20th-century music. Some of those admirers took it upon themselves to orchestrate selected pieces and employ them for ballets and other public spectacles of a sort he rarely addressed himself - as with ''House of Birds'' for the Royal Ballet and ''Don Perlimplin'' for the Cuevas Ballet.
        His survivors include his wife, Carmen Bravo Mompou.
      