
       Richard Egan, known for his roles as a tough leading man in action films and westerns, died of prostate cancer Monday at St. John's Cancer Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Richard Egan, known for his roles as a tough leading man in action films and westerns, died of prostate cancer Monday at St. John's Cancer Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Although Mr. Egan never attained full stardom in major films, he had many feature roles in them, and starred in a succession of minor films.
        He was the young husband of Joan Crawford in ''The Damned Don't Cry,'' a 1950 gangster melodrama, and a gladiator in ''Demetrius and the Gladiators,'' a 1954 sequel to ''The Robe.''
        In 1955, he appeared opposite Tyrone Power and Susan Hayward in ''The Untamed,'' playing a Boer farmer in strife-torn South Africa. The same year, he was an alcoholic mine owner in ''Violent Saturday,'' a melodrama about a bank robbery, and also appeared in ''The View from Pompey's Head,'' a film about Southern intrigue.
        He was a young lawyer in ''Slaughter on 10th Avenue'' (1957), the father of Sandra Dee in ''A Summer Place'' (1959) and a doctor in ''Pollyanna'' (1960).
        Noting that his kind of hero was well on the way to going out of style, Mr. Egan remarked in a 1966 interview: ''It's much easier to be cynical than make a positive statement, to set up a man only to knock him down, than to show convincingly a man who successfully sticks by his beliefs. We desperately need something to give strength and fortitude to the lost.''
        Mr. Egan starred as a rancher in two short-lived television series, ''Empire'' (1962) and ''Redigo'' (1964), and later appeared in the soap opera ''Capitol.''
        He also toured in such stage productions as Neil Simon's ''I Ought to Be in Pictures,'' ''Hanky Panky'' and ''Strike a Match,'' with Pat O'Brien and Eva Gabor.
        After graduating from the University of San Franciso, Mr. Egan joined the Army in 1942, and served for four years, instructing troops in judo and spending a year of duty in the Philippines.
        He then attended Stanford University, earning a master's degree in theater history and dramatic literature.
        Mr. Egan is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Hardy; four daughters and a son.
      