
       John J. Guerin, the director of advertising sales operations for The New York Times, died Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while playing tennis in Freeport, L.I. He was 56 years old and lived in Bellmore, L.I.
        John J. Guerin, the director of advertising sales operations for The New York Times, died Saturday after he suffered a heart attack while playing tennis in Freeport, L.I. He was 56 years old and lived in Bellmore, L.I.
        Mr. Guerin was named to the sales operations post last month. He headed a department of 50 employees who are responsible for positioning the 7 million to 8 million display and classified advertisements that appear in The Times each year.
        He was also responsible for developing projects to insure growth of the newspaper's advertising.
        He assumed the sales operations post after two years as national advertising director. In that position, he oversaw advertising for travel, packaged goods, amusements and books, as well as special projects and advertising agency relations. Joined Times in 1955
        Mr. Guerin joined The Times as a classified advertising salesman in May 1955, after working in the accounting department of the Aramco Oil Company and as a sales representative for the Underwood Corporation.
        Mr. Guerin was a retail advertising salesman at The Times from 1959 to 1970, when he was appointed assistant retail advertising manager.
        In 1972, he rejoined the classified department as director and supervised the increasing use of computers to place classified ads in the newspaper.
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Guerin served as president of the Association of Newspaper Classified Advertising Managers, an industry group.
        Mr. Guerin was born Oct. 8, 1930, in Manhattan. He earned a bachelor of science degree in marketing in 1960 from New York University, where he also did graduate work.
        Mr. Guerin was a member of the Knights of Columbus in Bellmore and a past president of the Holy Name Society at St. Barnabas Apostle Church, also in Bellmore.
        Surviving are his wife, Joan; four daughters, Joanne Rende of Brightwaters, L.I., Elizabeth and Patricia, both of Bellmore, and Terry, a student at Mount St. Mary's College in Emmetsburg, Md., and a son, John Jr., of Rowayton, Conn.
      