
       Ewald B. Nyquist, a former New York State Education Commissioner who played a key role in desegregating the state's schools, suffered a heart attack and died yesterday morning while driving with his wife near their home in Grafton, N.Y. He was 72.
        Ewald B. Nyquist, a former New York State Education Commissioner who played a key role in desegregating the state's schools, suffered a heart attack and died yesterday morning while driving with his wife near their home in Grafton, N.Y. He was 72.
        The Rensselaer County Sherrif's office said that Mr. Nyquist slumped over the wheel of his car at 2:30 A.M. while driving in the town of Grafton in Rensselaer County. The car ran off the roadway into a wooded area, where it struck several trees and stopped. Mr. Nyquist's wife, Janet, 73, was not injured.
        Mr. Nyquist, who was retired, was best known for his energetic tenure as State Education Commissioner from 1970 to 1977 - a period that included some of the fiercest educational controversies in New York's history.
        An avowed liberal, Mr. Nyquist vigorously supported racial desegregation in state schools at a time when much of the nation was embroiled in anti-busing lawsuits and protests. Initially, he called on local school districts to devise plans for desegregating their schools. When they did not respond, he developed his own plans and proposed to impose them on the districts, provoking widespread controversy and even death threats. Advocate of Students' Rights
        ''The more successful we are, the more good we do, the more students we educate, the more criticism we receive and the more unloving our critics become,'' Mr. Nyquist observed in 1975.
        Mr. Nyquist, who was an advocate of students' rights, ruled against dress codes and headed off efforts to force students to cut long hair. He also ordered the state's school districts to find better ways to pay for the education of handicapped students.
        ''His whole philosophy was summed up by one phrase he used, that 'education should be humane,' '' said Arnold Bloom, a spokesman for the State Department of Education. ''It typified his concern that the educational system should be responsive to students.''
        Mr. Nyquist was also recognized for taking strong steps to improve student performance, instituting a broad program of competency testing that was used to measure the performance of high-school students in fundamental areas such as reading, writing and mathematics. The testing program, which has since been expanded and made even tougher, is now known as the Regents Competency Tests. Conflict With the Governor
        Another of Mr. Nyquist's proposals, to award adults credit toward college degrees for knowledge they have acquired outside academic life, also gained widespread acceptance. Now known in New York as the Regents External Degree Program, the proposal became a major force in nontraditional education throughout the country.
        ''Commissioner Nyquist had a directness, an irrepressible sense of humor and a zest for life that were legendary,'' the State Board of Regents said in a unanimous resolution adopted after Mr. Nyquist's death was announced yesterday. ''Everything he did in his long and illustrious career in education was based on a strong ethical sense and a belief that the educational system must serve all the people without regard to their race, gender, or economic status.''
        Mr. Nyquist's controversial stands, together with a confident, and sometimes brusque, personal manner, ultimately brought him into conflict with other state officials, including Governor Hugh L. Carey. In 1976, speaking with what was assumed to be the Governor's encouragement, the State Commerce Commissioner, John S. Dyson, called Mr. Nyquist ''a king'' presiding over ''the last kingdom in America.''
        Later that year, after what one school official later called a ''power struggle,'' the Board of Regents voted, 8 to 7, to dismiss Mr. Nyquist, who refused to step down.
        ''You all know I've said I won't quit unless I'm ahead,'' he told reporters shortly before the Regents voted. ''I will not resign.'' A Major in Psychology
        Mr. Nyquist was replaced six months later by his executive deputy, Gordon M. Ambach, who served as Education Commissioner until June 30 of this year.
        Born to Swedish immigrant parents in Rockford, Ill., on Nov. 1, 1914, Mr. Nyquist attended local public schools and the University of Chicago, where he majored in psychology. It was there that he was first exposed to the independent kind of learning that later characterized his approach to education.
        After serving as an ensign in the Naval Reserve in World War II, he worked in the admissions department of Columbia University, becoming admissions director by 1948.
        Mr. Nyquist moved to the State Education Department in 1951, to become assistant commissioner for higher education, and rose to the post of deputy commissioner for higher education by 1957. When the State Education Commissioner, James Allen, was called to Washington in 1969 as Commissioner of Education under President Richard M. Nixon, Mr. Nyquist was chosen to replace him.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Nyquist is survived by two sons, Carl G. of South Bethlehem, N.Y., and Edwin B. of Hinsdale, Ill.; a daughter, Janet S. Wilcke of Jarrettsville, Md., and 11 grandchildren.
      