
       Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who died today in a rodeo accident in California, was a man of deeply contrasting shades who gained prominence in the Reagan Administration for his leadership on trade issues.
        Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, who died today in a rodeo accident in California, was a man of deeply contrasting shades who gained prominence in the Reagan Administration for his leadership on trade issues.
        He was perhaps one of the few members of the Council on Foreign Relations who was also a member of the Rodeo Cowboys Association. He graduated from Yale University in 1944 with a thesis devoted to Chaucer and then spent two years as an iron worker, pouring molten iron into molds for the Cleveland plant of the Eastern Malleable Iron Company.
        Thirteen years later, he became the company's president. And in 1962 he was selected to head Scovill Inc., a diversified manufacturer based in Waterbury, Conn., which he led to sales of more than $1 billion by 1980.
        A member of President Reagan's original Cabinet, Mr. Baldrige presided over one of the lesser known departments of the Federal Government. But as the Administration worked to develop a more comprehensive and aggressive trade policy, he gained international attention as a pragmatic defender of American trade interests. Sanctions Against Japan
        Mr. Baldrige, who insisted he was a free-trade advocate, was the driving force behind the Cabinet's decision last April favoring the imposition of sanctions against Japanese electronics companies in a dispute over computer chips. As a result, stiff tariffs were placed on Japanese color television sets and other consumer goods. These levies were partly lifted last month at the economic summit meeting in Venice of seven leading Western industrial countries.
        Mr. Baldrige was a longtime friend of Vice President Bush and served as the chairman of his 1980 Presidential primary campaign in Connecticut. After the 1980 election, Mr. Bush was regarded as instrumental in helping Mr. Baldrige secure the appointment to the Commerce Department post.
        Born in Omaha, Mr. Baldrige was known for his droll wit and frequently pithy manner of expression. His hobby of steer roping set him apart from more sedentary members of the Reagan Cabinet and he was proficient enough at the sport to occasionally win prize money. He was elected to the Cowboy Hall of Fame in 1984. With his somber pin-stripe suits, he often wore a hand-tooled Western belt. Father Served in Congress
        Mr. Baldrige and Mr. Reagan were also close. Mr. Reagan is said to have appreciated Mr. Baldrige's independent spirit and down-to-earth nature. ''Mac and I shared an affinity for the West and I will greatly miss his friendship,'' Mr. Reagan said in a statement tonight.
        Mr. Baldrige had said he hoped to be the longest sitting Commerce Secretary, but with his death he failed to surpass the longevity record set by Herbert Hoover, who held the job for seven years and five months before he ran for the Presidency in 1928.
        Mr. Baldrige was not the first of his family to enter government service. His sister Letitia was the social secretary at the White House when John F. Kennedy was President. His father, H. Malcolm Baldrige, who practiced law in Omaha, served one term in Congress.
        Mr. Baldrige married Margaret Trowbridge Murrary in 1951. In addition to Mrs. Baldrige, he is survived by a brother and sister, two daughters and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Baldrige was a former infantry veteran with combat experience against the Japanese on Okinawa in World War II. After Japan surrendered he was assigned to the occupation forces in a small farming town in northwest Honshu.
        Mr. Baldrige who was to later to confront the Japanese in a fierce industrial struggle between the two nations, said he bore his former enemies no malice. ''The only former soldiers I've met that nourished a grudge against the Japanese were those who had never been within 20 miles of the front line'' he said in a recent interview.
        Mr. Baldrige's sensitivity to American business interests sometimes placed him in conflict with some of the Reagan Administration's more outspoken free-market adherents.
        David A. Stockman, the former budget director, wrote in a book published last year that Mr. Baldrige ''had little understanding of free-market doctrine and little willingness to hear about it.''
        Asked about Mr. Stockman's remarks, Mr. Baldrige replied that although Mr. Stockman was a friend, ''I would say he is overeducated and underexperienced.''
      