
       Max Fortunoff, founder and chairman of the New York specialty stores that bear his name, died yesterday at his home in Old Westbury, L.I., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.
        Max Fortunoff, founder and chairman of the New York specialty stores that bear his name, died yesterday at his home in Old Westbury, L.I., after a long illness. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Fortunoff and his wife, Clara, went into retailing in 1922 in a store in the East New York section of Brooklyn that had been described as the first discount store in the New York metropolitan area.
        That outlet, ''under the El'' on Livonia Avenue, grew into a complex of six stores within a two-block radius and for four decades was a big draw on Sundays for customers from Brooklyn, Queens and Long Island.
        Since the stores were closed on Saturdays they were legally allowed to be open on Sundays, as were other stores in Brooklyn, and the scene was usually one of crowds and traffic. Trading and Grading Up
        Starting in the 1960's the business was expanded geographically, first to Westbury then to Fifth Avenue in Manhattan and to Paramus and Wayne, N.J. Around the mid-1960's the Brooklyn stores were closed.
        Mr. Fortunoff said years later that the move out of Brooklyn was more than geographical and marked ''a trading up and grading up'' of merchandise that the younger members of the Fortunoff family had wanted.
        Fortunoff's became one of the largest specialty home furnishings stores in the region, selling jewelry, silverware, china and crystal, as well as rugs, outdoor furniture and small appliances.
        Mr. Fortunoff was born in Russia and emigrated to the United States with his family in 1907. Shortly after World War I he left school to join his father's wholesale housewares business.
        He, his wife, and their three children lived in an apartment behind the Livonia Avenue store and from the beginning his children were involved in the business.
        When they became adults they and their spouses assumed top management posts.
        ''We have no expensive hierarchy in our business, only the family,'' Mr. Fortunoff said in a 1969 interview, ''and we make decisions fast and on the spot.''
        Mr. Fortunoff was a benefactor of Brookdale Hospital and Dowling College. He founded the Max and Clara Fortunoff Foundation to support local educational and charitable causes.
        He is survived by a son, Alan of Old Westbury; 13 grandchildren, and two great grandchldren.
      