
       Charles Stark Draper, a pioneer in advanced guidance technology for aircraft and missiles and developer of the navigation system that steered Americans to the moon and back, died Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85 years old.
        Charles Stark Draper, a pioneer in advanced guidance technology for aircraft and missiles and developer of the navigation system that steered Americans to the moon and back, died Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85 years old.
        Described by his peers as one of the foremost engineers of our time, Dr. Draper was a longtime professor of aeronautics and astronautics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He founded M.I.T.'s Instrumentation Laboratory to develop his inventions applying gyroscopic principles for World War II gunsights and for the guidance systems that made possible intercontinental ballistic missiles.
        Howard W. Johnson, a former chairman of the M.I.T. Corporation, said, ''His research created a whole new industry in intertial instruments and systems for airplanes, ships, submarines, missiles, satellites and space vehicles.'' 'In the Category of Genius'
        Inertial guidance is based on the familiar principle that keeps a child's gyroscopic top from falling: a rapidly spinning wheel will resist forces working to twist it from the plane in which it is revolving. For his guidance systems Dr. Draper used three spinning gyros, each responsive to only one direction of motion - up and down, right and left and rolling. These gyros formed a basis for a self-contained system that remembers an object's course of flight and can measure changes in that course.
        The system devised by Dr. Draper for the moonbound Apollo spacecraft included telescopes, a sextant and a computerized inertial guidance device that told the astronauts where they were in space, where they were headed and how fast. Such data were used to direct all the spacecraft's propulsion systems.
        James Killian Jr., a former M.I.T. president, described Dr. Draper as a ''great teacher as well as an engineer whose technological achievements clearly placed him in the category of genius.''
        Doc Draper, as he was usually called, became a legend on the M.I.T. campus almost from the day he arrived there as a student in 1922. A stocky man with a fighter's broken nose and a scrappy temperament to match, he was the kind of student who took professors on terrifying airplane rides to prove some point of aerodynamics. As a professor himself, he was a compulsive and creative tinkerer. Gunsight for the Navy
        He was born Oct. 2, 1901, in the small town of Windsor, Mo. After two years at the University of Missouri, he transferred to Stanford University and earned a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1922, intending to become a physician. But on a trip East he visited the M.I.T. campus in Cambridge, became fascinated with work in aeronautical engineering and decided to enroll. He learned to fly an open-cockpit biplane, earned another bachelor's degree and then a doctorate in physics in 1938.
        The following year, Dr. Draper became a full professor at M.I.T. and founded the Instrumentation Laboratory. The group's first major achievement was the Mark 14 gyroscopic gunsight for the Navy, which made it possible for antiaircraft guns to take deadly accurate aim on attacking aircraft even while a ship was rolling and tossing.
        Out of this research came the guidance systems for jet fighter planes and the Polaris, Poseidon and Trident submarines and missiles as well as key components for the Atlas and Titan rockets. Dr. Draper's laboratory was chosen in 1961 to develop the Apollo guidance and navigation system.
        As Dr. Draper recalled in an interview several months before the first moon landing in 1969, James E. Webb, the space agency administrator, told him: '' 'Stark, this is going to be a hell of a job. Can it be done?' I said yes. We used to give lunar navigation problems as thesis work for our students, and I knew it could be done. 'It'll be ready before you need it,' I told Webb - and, I might add, it is.'' Caught in Campus Protests
        A few months after the moon landing, Dr. Draper was forced to step down as director of the Instrumentation Laboratory. He was caught in the middle of widespread protests against military work being done on university campuses. He insisted that any organization has an obligation to society to provide ''services which fall within its special competence,'' adding: ''That includes defense work. If defense is neglected, all is lost.''
        In 1973, the laboratory became independent of M.I.T. and was renamed the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory.
        Dr. Draper was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1965. He was an honorary fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. He was also inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame and the International Space Hall of Fame.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Ivy Hurd Willard; three sons, James and Michael of Newton, Mass., and John of Hampton Falls, N.H.; a daughter, Martha Draper Ditmeyer of Fairway, Kan., and six grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be private.
        CHARLES S. DRAPER, ENGINEER
      