
       Hugh Wheeler, a playwright, novelist and screen writer who won Tony Awards for the books for the hit musicals ''A Little Night Music,'' ''Sweeney Todd'' and ''Candide,'' died of lung and heart failure yesterday. He was 75 years old and lived in Monterey, Mass.
        Hugh Wheeler, a playwright, novelist and screen writer who won Tony Awards for the books for the hit musicals ''A Little Night Music,'' ''Sweeney Todd'' and ''Candide,'' died of lung and heart failure yesterday. He was 75 years old and lived in Monterey, Mass.
        Mr. Wheeler had been ill for a short time and had been hospitalized with pneumonia. At the time of his death, according to a spokesman for his agent, Mr. Wheeler had just completed work on the book for a musical adaptation of ''Meet Me in St. Louis.''
        From his early years as part of a mystery-writing team to his later work with Stephen Sondheim, Harold Prince and Leonard Bernstein, Mr. Wheeler was known as a craftsman for whom collaboration came easy.
        Mr. Wheeler, who was born in England and attended London University, came to the United States a short time later and began writing mysteries under the pseudonyms of Patrick Quentin and Q. Patrick, first in collaboration and then on his own. Mysteries to Plays
        After 20 years as a successful mystery novelist, in which he wrote or co-wrote 30 books and saw four of them turned into motion pictures, Mr. Wheeler wrote his first play, ''Big Fish, Little Fish,'' and from then on he mostly devoted his energies to writing for the theater.
        ''Big Fish, Little Fish'' starred Jason Robards and Hume Cronyn and was directed by Sir John Gielgud. That comedy, in which George Grizzard, Elizabeth Wilson, Ruth White and Martin Gabel also appeared, received good notices when it first opened in 1961, and was revived Off Broadway in 1974.
        Mr. Wheeler followed ''Big Fish, Little Fish'' with his second play, ''Look: We've Come Through,'' later that year. It closed shortly after it opened, but was also revived, in 1973, at the Equity Library Theater. Shortly after his second play, Mr. Wheeler turned to the musical theater and wrote his first book for a musical for Harold Arlen's ''Softly.''
        But it was Mr. Wheeler's fascination with the 1957 Ingmar Bergman film ''Smiles of a Summer Night'' that proved to be a major turning point for him. Award for 'Night Music'
        As Mr. Sondheim once recalled, the composer was discussing the possibility of a romantic musical with Mr. Prince in 1971. ''He called Hugh Wheeler and we got together,'' Mr. Sondheim said. ''In the course of talk, Bergman's movie came up.''
        The result was ''A Little Night Music.'' The 1973 musical won six Tony Awards - for Mr. Sondheim, Mr. Prince, the actresses Glynis Johns and Patricia Elliott, the costumer Florence Klotz, and for Mr. Wheeler.
        Mr. Wheeler's second Tony Award came a year later. Leonard Bernstein asked the writer to provide a new book for his musical ''Candide,'' which had been a huge success on record, but had been a disappointment in a staged version.
        Along with some new lyrics by Mr. Sondheim, Mr. Wheeler's book helped turn Mr. Bernstein's ''Candide'' into one of the most popular musicals of the decade.
        The collaboration with Mr. Sondheim was revived again five years later for the 1979 production of ''Sweeney Todd.'' The musical, for which Mr. Wheeler again wrote the book, gained eight Tony Awards, including another for both the composer and the writer.
        The same year Mr. Wheeler wrote a new book for Mozart's ''Impresario,'' which was presented at the inaugural summer opera season at the Kennedy Center in Washington. Films Based on Books
        In 1981, Mr. Wheeler wrote a book for a musical based on ''The Little Prince,'' the novel by Antoine de Saint-Exupery, and two years later wrote another musical titled ''Bodo,'' about a goatherd in 12th-century France who falls in love with the beekeeper's daughter. ''Bodo'' was produced in workshop and a spokesman for his agent said he had been working on revisions of it at the time of his death.
        His other credits included the book for the musical ''Truckloads'' (1975), and a revision of the book for ''Silverlake'' (1980), as well as the stage adaptation of Shirley Jackson's ''We Have Always Lived in the Castle.''
        Among the mysteries written under the Patrick Quentin pseudonym that were produced as motion pictures were ''Black Widow,'' which starred Van Heflin, Ginger Rogers and George Raft, ''Man in the Net,'' ''The Man With Two Wives'' and ''The Green-Eyed Monster.''
        Mr. Wheeler was single and left no immediate survivors.
      