
       Jim Bishop, a reporter and columnist who wrote his way onto the best-seller lists with his hour-by-hour formula and you-are-there style, died Sunday of respiratory failure at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old.
        Jim Bishop, a reporter and columnist who wrote his way onto the best-seller lists with his hour-by-hour formula and you-are-there style, died Sunday of respiratory failure at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Bishop, whose 21 books included ''The Day Lincoln Was Shot,'' and ''The Day Kennedy Was Shot,'' spoke and wrote in terse sentences that sounded as if he had read Hemingway before writing, which he did. In his years on the rewrite desk of The New York Mirror, he kept a copy of ''The Sun Also Rises'' in a desk drawer.
        He said he liked to read a page or two before writing, ''hoping some of the Hemingway magic would rub off on me.''
        Although he wrote 80 pages about the day Jesus was born, 335 pages about the day He died and 304 on the day Lincoln was assassinated, Mr. Bishop never said he was a Biblical scholar, historian or political analyst. And once he pounded out a sentence, he never changed it, saying his newspaper days had taught him to do his best work the first time. ''When you write a story the first time,'' he said, ''the inspirational flush is on you.'' Helped With Broadway Column
        Mr. Bishop was a $52-a-week milkman, driving a horse-drawn delivery wagon in Jersey City, when he quit to become a $12-a-week copy boy at The New York Daily News. He once said he spent most of his time there ''going out for sauerkraut juice for reporters with hangovers.''
        By the time he was 21, he had moved to The Daily Mirror, where he remained until 1943. He learned his rewrite skills as Mark Hellinger's assistant on a daily Broadway column.
        In 1952, Mr. Bishop wrote a biography of his mentor. But by then, Mr. Bishop's career seemed to be faltering. He was $3,000 in debt when he started to write the book that put him on the best-seller list.
        It took Mr. Bishop six months to write about the last 24 hours and 22 minutes of Lincoln's life. He said he had started researching the Lincoln book years before, in his free moments on the rewrite desk. Before the book was published in 1955, he traveled around the United States, retracing the steps of Lincoln and his assassin, John Wilkes Booth. Biography on Gleason
        Soon after ''The Day Lincoln Was Shot,'' was published, in 1955, Jackie Gleason invited Mr. Bishop to write his biography. ''I told Jackie to get someone else to write his book,'' Mr. Bishop said in 1958. ''I reminded him that if I wrote the book it would be the truth as I saw it. He insisted I write the book.''
        The book, ''The Golden Ham,'' won a Benjamin Franklin Magazine Award from the University of Illinois. Excerpts were published in Life magazine. But Mr. Bishop's candid portrait of the entertainer was said to have caused a split between author and subject.
        Even so, Mr. Bishop named his boat ''Away We Go II,'' after Mr. Gleason's signature phrase.
        In 1957, Mr. Bishop signed a contract to write three columns a week for the King Features Syndicate. The column ran for for 26 years in as many as 200 newspapers. He once said the average time he spent writing a column was 35 minutes.
        He made the best-seller list again by writing one of the top 10 books of 1964.
        It was ''A Day in the Life of President Kennedy,'' which Mr. Bishop completed on Nov. 12, 1963, 10 days before the assassination. The President had approved it without revisions. Jacqueline Kennedy asked for 60 small changes, which Mr. Bishop made. Inspired by Father
        James Alonzo Bishop was born Nov. 21, 1907, in Jersey City, the oldest son of a police lieutenant. He said he decided to become a writer while watching his father fill out his police reports. ''I'd be doing my homework and Dad would be sitting across the kitchen table making out his report,'' Mr. Bishop said. ''He'd start at the beginning where he'd spotted the suspect, Bostwick and Jackson Avenues, 9:40 A.M., and tell his story so neatly and concisely that he made it sing for me.''
        Mr. Bishop's formal education ended at the eighth grade, although he attended a secretarial school in Jersey City in 1923, mastering shorthand and typing. He was awarded honorary degrees from St. Bonaventure University in 1958, Belmont Abbey College in 1968 and St. Peter's College in 1978.
        After leaving The Daily Mirror, he was associate editor of Collier's magazine, executive editor of Liberty magazine, director of the literary department of the Music Corporation of America, founding editor of Gold Medal Books, executive editor of Catholic Digest and founding editor of the Catholic Book Club. He wrote his last column for the King Syndicate in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Kelly; four daughters, Virginia Lee Frechette of Holmdel, N.J., Gayle M. Bishop of Miramar, Fla., Karen Bishop-Lavrich of St. Petersburg, Fla., Kathleen Bishop-Curtler, of St. Petersburg; 11 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
      