
       John Grimes, publisher of The Irish Echo, a newspaper that serves Irish-Americans, died Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.
        John Grimes, publisher of The Irish Echo, a newspaper that serves Irish-Americans, died Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.
        Mr. Grimes suffered a heart attack at his home and was pronounced dead on arrival at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, according to John J. Thornton, the editor of the weekly paper.
        The Irish Echo was founded in 1928 by Charles Connolly. It was bought in 1955 by Mr. Grimes's father, Patrick J. Grimes, an Irish immigrant, champion hurler, leader in Irish-American sports and community affairs and the founder of the Grimes Travel Agency.
        The elder Mr. Grimes died in 1978 at 88 years old and John Grimes succeeded him as publisher. Began Boston Edition
        According to the 1986 Editor and Publisher yearbook, the weekly, published on Wednesdays, sold 32,000 copies. Mr. Thornton said the paper circulates in and around New York City, mails copies across the country and publishes a Boston edition, which Mr. Grimes started in 1981.
        Mr. Thornton said New York furnished the Boston edition with materials such as news from Ireland and sports, while Boston editors provided the local news.
        Mr. Grimes was born in the Bronx and attended Manhattan Prep and the New York School of Music. He was graduated from Manhattan College in 1953 and commissioned into the Navy, serving as a pilot on the Coral Sea until 1957.
        In private life, he was an accomplished piano player and history buff.
        Mr. Thornton said Mr. Grimes would be succeeded as publisher by his wife, Claire O'Gara Grimes.
        Also surviving are two daughters, Jennifer and Katherine of Pound Ridge; a brother, Patrick H. Grimes of Yonkers, who now operates the Grimes Travel Agency, and a sister, Mary Farrell of Irvington, N.Y.
        A wake will be held today from 3 to 5 P.M. and 7 to 9 P.M. at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son funeral home, 2900 Summer Street in Stamford, Conn., with a funeral mass to be said at 11 A.M. tomorrow at St. Patrick's Church in Bedford Village, N.Y.
      