
       Travis Jackson, the gritty, crowd-pleasing Hall of Fame shortstop who played 15 years for the New York Giants in the 1920's and 1930's, died Monday night at his home in Waldo, Ark. He was 83 years old and had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
        Travis Jackson, the gritty, crowd-pleasing Hall of Fame shortstop who played 15 years for the New York Giants in the 1920's and 1930's, died Monday night at his home in Waldo, Ark. He was 83 years old and had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
        Although he was widely regarded as the best shortstop in the National League for most of his career, Jackson, who joined the Giants in 1922 and played through the 1936 season, much of his time as the team captain, was passed over for the Hall of Fame during his initial period of eligibility. It wasn't until 1982 that the Hall's Veterans Committee gave formal recognition to what Giant fans had known all along - that the man they called Stonewall or Stoney, for short, was a very special player.
        From the time the Giants' manager, John J. McGraw, acquired him from the Little Rock Travelers at the end of the 1922 season, Jackson was a fan favorite - a sure-fielding, strong-throwing shortstop who also pulled his weight at the plate. He hit over .300 six times, including a career-high .339 in 1930, and ended his career with a .291 average and 135 home runs, a number of them dramatic game-winning blasts. He also played in four World Series. Played Despite Injuries Jackson, who was born in Waldo and starred on the Ouachita College team before turning professional, endeared himself to New York fans for his courage in the face of a painful series of knee injuries. He originally hurt the knee in college, and although a reinjury in 1925 kept him out of the lineup for a number of games that season and the next, he often played with injuries. A further injury in 1932 foreshadowed the end of his career.
        After he retired at the end of the 1936 season, he managed the Giants' Jersey City farm club until 1938, then became a Giants coach. Ill with tuberculosis, he was sidelined for five years, but he returned as a Giants coach before shifting to the Braves' organization, where he remained until 1960.
        At the time of his Hall of Fame induction in 1982, Jackson recalled that McGraw, who had earned his pick of the Little Rock squad by lending the Travelers a player for the 1922 season, had taken quite a chance in selecting Jackson, who had committed 73 errors during the Southern Association season. 'World Record for Errors'
        ''I guess I set a world record for errors,'' Jackson said. ''I had a pretty good arm, see, but I didn't have much control. A lot of those were double errors - two on the same play, a boot and then a wild throw. The people in the first-base and right-field bleachers knew me. When the ball was hit to me they scattered. 'Watch out! He's got it again.' ''
        McGraw's selection was vindicated when Jackson got his arm under control in the majors and led the National League shortstops in fielding, with a .970 percentage, in 1931.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; two children, Dorothy Fincher and William Travis Jackson, six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      