
       Sandor Lorand, a psychiatrist and prominent disciple of Freud, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 95 years old.
        Sandor Lorand, a psychiatrist and prominent disciple of Freud, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 95 years old.
        Born in Hungary, Dr. Lorand received his medical degree from the Royal Hungarian University in 1918. He started his career as a gynecologist and soon received notice after he published a paper on the use of hypnosis to relieve the pain of delivery.
        ''Hypnosis was a kind of bridge for him to psychoanalysis, in that it has to do with the psychology of the unconscious,'' said Dr. Lorand's wife, Rhoda, who is a clinical psychologist.
        ''He was analyzed and began studying with Sandor Ferenczi, a famous pupil of Freud,'' Mrs. Lorand added. ''A tenet of the psychoanalytic movement is that anyone who wants to be an analyst must himself be thoroughly analyzed.'' Articles in Professional Journals
        Dr. Lorand immigrated to the United States in 1925 and went into private practice. He soon began writing articles for numerous professional journals. Within a decade, he was being regularly quoted in magazines and newspapers on such topics as anxiety, nudism, the effect of fairy tales on children and mental states of the religiously devout.
        Dr. Lorand, described in a 1975 article in The Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association as ''a distinguished pioneer of the psychoanalytic movement,'' wrote four books: ''The Morbid Personality,'' ''Technique of Psychoanalytic Therapy,'' ''Clinical Studies in Psychoanalysis'' and ''Lectures in Dynamic Psychiatry.'' He also edited several books, including ''Psychoanalysis Today,'' ''Adolescence: A Psychoanalytic Approach to Problems and Therapy'' and ''Therapy of Perversions.''
        In 1929, while attending a congress of the International Psychoanalytic Society at Oxford, England, Dr. Lorand took home movies of many of the most celebrated psychoanalysts of the time, including Anna Freud and Karen Horney. The film is now in the archives of the Library of Congress.
        Dr. Lorand was a past president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and served as chairman of the medical board of Hillside Hospital, which is now a part of the Long Island Jewish-Hillside Medical Center. He also was on the psychiatric staff of Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        In the late 1940's, Dr. Lorand was invited to create a training program for psychoanalysts at the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York, where he later taught.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Lorand leaves no survivors. Services are scheduled for 11:45 A.M. tomorrow at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, L.I.
      