
       John F. Malone, head of the regional F.B.I. office in New York from 1962 to 1975, died of a stroke last Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Carbondale, Pa. He was 76 years old and had lived in Carbondale since his retirement in 1975.
        John F. Malone, head of the regional F.B.I. office in New York from 1962 to 1975, died of a stroke last Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Carbondale, Pa. He was 76 years old and had lived in Carbondale since his retirement in 1975.
        Mr. Malone headed the largest regional Federal Bureau of Investigation office, overseeing agents in New York City, the six counties north of the city and on Long Island. He was particularly active in investigations of organized-crime figures and supervised the inquiry that led to the indictment of a Lindsay administration official, James L. Marcus, convicted of taking kickbacks on a city contract.
        Mr. Malone joined the F.B.I. in 1942, after teaching school and investigating suspected frauds for the Pennsylvania Department of Public Assistance.
        ''I always liked investigative work,'' he said years later, adding that it was ''the leadership of J. Edgar Hoover'' that attracted him to what he and all other law-enforcement officals refer to simply as ''the bureau.'' In Charge of Internal Unit
        In the early 50's, he was the special agent in charge of offices in San Diego, Louisville, Chicago and Los Angeles. By 1957, as one of 10 assistant directors, he was in charge of the bureau training school in Quantico, Va. Two years later, he was named assistant director in charge of the inspection division, the internal inspection office.
        In 1962, he became assistant director in charge of the New York office, the sole office headed by an assistant director; each of the other 58 offices is commanded by a special agent in charge.
        It was Mr. Malone's second tour in New York. His first assignment as an agent was in Buffalo. After three months, he was reassigned to New York and a year later, married Margaret Gilhool, whom he had met in Carbondale.
        Affable and gregarious, Mr. Malone was a well-known figure in New York. He knew journalists and judges, show-business personalities and church leaders. Francis Cardinal Spellman, Judge Irving R. Kaufman, Walter Winchell and the bandleader Lawrence Welk all considered themselves friends of the F.B.I. official. Inquiry on Break-Ins
        A year after he retired, Mr. Malone figured in a Justice Department investigation into a nationwide series of burglaries by F.B.I. agents against leftist organizations and people. In July 1976, an agent assigned to Minneapolis told investigators that while working for Mr. Malone in New York, he had made a number of ''surreptitious entries'' into the office of the Socialist Workers Party in New York.
        The agent, George Baxtrum, said he later received a commendation from Mr. Malone for information he had obtained from the break-ins. It was later determined that the break-ins had been ordered by higher F.B.I. officials; Mr. Malone was never charged with any offense.
        Mr. Malone was born in Carbondale. He graduated from St. Thomas's College, now the University of Scranton.
        Besides his wife, two nephews and a niece survive.
        JOHN F. MALONE, 76, IS DEAD
      