
       James S. Lay Jr., a retired Central Intelligence Agency official and former executive secretary of the National Security Council, died of Alzheimer's Disease Sunday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Perry Point, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        James S. Lay Jr., a retired Central Intelligence Agency official and former executive secretary of the National Security Council, died of Alzheimer's Disease Sunday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Perry Point, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        Mr. Lay joined the National Security Council when it was established in 1947, and was named executive secretary in 1950, when Rear Adm. Sidney W. Souers retired.
        He held that job until 1961, when he transferred to the Central Intelligence Agency as deputy assistant to Allen W. Dulles, the Director of Central Intelligence. Later he was named executive secretary to he United States Intelligence Board.
        ''Jimmie Lay was a master at bringing about organizational change,'' said Paul Bores, a long-time associate in the C.I.A. who also spoke of his ''ability to size up a situation and bring about change without making anyone mad.''' Born in Washington
        Mr. Lay, who was born in Washington on Aug. 24, 1911, graduated second in his class from the Virginia Military Institute in 1933 after majoring in electrical engineering. He received a master's degree from the Harvard Business School in 1935.
        Until World War II, Mr. Lay worked for several utility companies, starting with the Virginia Electric & Power Company in Richmond, where for seven months he was a commercial and industrial power sales engineer.
        Mr. Lay was an officer in the Field Artillery Reserve after college, and was called into active service in May 1941. After training with the 353d Field Artillery Regiment at Camp Livingston, La., he was assigned to the British Empire Branch of the Military Intelligence Service of the War Department in Washington. Served in London
        After several months in London in the office of the United States military attache, he returned to Washington as secretary to the Joint Intelligence Committee of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        After the war, he joined the State Department as a management analyst for the special assistant in charge of research and intelligence.
        Two months later, when the National Intelligence Authority was established, he was chosen as its secretary. When the National Security Council superseded the National Intelligence Authority in 1947, Mr. Lay became assistant executive secretary to the new body.
        Mr. Lay retired in 1971, but worked as a consultant to the President's Advisory Board until 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Emily, of Falls Church; three daughters, Carolyn Dowd of Gaithersburg, Md.; Emily O'Connell, of Seattle, and Patricia Dorsey of Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich., and four grandchildren.
      