
       Prof. Bengt Georg Daniel Stromgren, an internationally renowned astronomer and former director of the University of Chicago's Yerkes Observatory, died of heart failure Saturday at Hvidovre Hospital in Copenhagen. He was 79 years old and had been living and teaching in the Danish capital for the past 20 years.
        Prof. Bengt Georg Daniel Stromgren, an internationally renowned astronomer and former director of the University of Chicago's Yerkes Observatory, died of heart failure Saturday at Hvidovre Hospital in Copenhagen. He was 79 years old and had been living and teaching in the Danish capital for the past 20 years.
        Born in Sweden and raised in Denmark, Professor Stromgren received his Ph.D. from the University of Copenhagen in 1929. He became a lecturer there and joined the faculty as a professor while also starting his association with the University of Chicago and Yerkes Observatory as an assistant professor in 1936.
        Four years later, Professor Stromgren succeeded his father, Elis Stromgren, as director of the Royal Copenhagen Observatory. He was back in Chicago after World War II and in 1951 became director of Yerkes Observatory on Lake Geneva at Williams Bay, Wis. Gained World Recognition
        Concurrently, he served as director of McDonald Observatory, which the University of Chicago and the University of Texas operated at Fort Davis, Tex. He left those posts and his professorship in Chicago in 1957 to become a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        Professor Stromgren worked in astrophysics, both as an observer and a theorist, ranging over several disparate fields in that discipline. He gained world recognition for his research and theories on what stars are made of and what occupies the space between them.
        While associated with the observatories here and in Denmark, he helped to design equipment for more precise observations. At the Institute for Advanced Study he developed a new method for fixing the ages and distances of stars.
        A native of Goteborg, Sweden, he was brought to Copenhagen as an infant by his astronomer father and became a Danish citizen. Upon his return to Denmark in 1967, he resumed his professorship of astronomy at the University of Copenhagen and until his death kept an office to write his papers at NORDITA, the Scandinavian physics institute.
        Professor Stromgren is survived by his wife, the former Sigrid Caja Hartz; two daughters, Karin Elisabeth Campbell of Pewaukee, Wis., and Prof. Nina Stromgren Allen of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Woods Hole, Mass.; a son, Ole Edvard Lidforss Stromgren; a brother, Prof. Erik Stromgren of Aarhus, Denmark; 12 grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
        BENGT STROMGREN
      