
       Maj. Gen. Almerin C. O'Hara, a former commander of New York State's organized militia and former State Commissioner of General Services, died of prostate cancer Sunday at the Norway Nursing Home in Norway, Me. He was 76 years old and had lived for many years in Boynton Beach, Fla.
        Maj. Gen. Almerin C. O'Hara, a former commander of New York State's organized militia and former State Commissioner of General Services, died of prostate cancer Sunday at the Norway Nursing Home in Norway, Me. He was 76 years old and had lived for many years in Boynton Beach, Fla.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1959 appointed General O'Hara as his chief of staff and the commanding general of the New York Army National Guard and the State Division of Military and Naval Affairs.
        As chief of staff, he was responsible for 35,000 troops of the state's military -Army National Guard, Air National Guard, Naval Militia and New York Guard - and played a key role during state emergencies. In 1964, he supervised the mobilization of the forces in Rochester after racial disturbances in that city.
        Governor Rockefeller in 1971 named him Commissioner of General Services, the agency that supervised construction of the Empire State Mall in Albany. Directed Fuel Conservation
        Two years later, the Governor assigned General O'Hara to be the coordinator of a new state program for dealing with illicit drugs through tougher prison terms and enlarged treatment units. The next year, during a national gasoline shortage, Gov. Malcolm Wilson made him director of the State's Emergency Fuel Office, which oversaw state efforts to cope with the crisis.
        He retired as the Commissioner of General Services in 1975, and later moved to Florida.
        General O'Hara was born and raised in Hudson, N.Y. He graduated from the United States Army War College and the Command and General Staff College. Before Mr. Rockefeller named him chief of staff he was a sales executive with the Universal Match Corporation.
        The general began his military career in March 1934 as a private in the New York National Guard. During World War II he was an infantry battalion commander in the Pacific and was awarded the Silver Star for gallantry on Saipan. On his return he rejoined the State National Guard and was commander of its 27th Infantry Division in 1959 when Governor Rockefeller named him his chief of staff.
        General O'Hara's wife, Marjorie, died last year. He is survived by a son, Almerin Jr. of Hopewell Junction, N.Y.; a stepson, Edmund R. Dawson of Atlanta; a brother, Malcolm, of Short Hills, N.J.; a sister, Elizabeth Darwe of Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
        GEN. ALMERIN C. O'HARA DIES
      