
       Howard M. Teichmann, for many years a witty presence on Broadway as a playwright, biographer and raconteur, and the author with George S. Kaufman of the 1953 comedy hit ''The Solid Gold Cadillac,'' died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) Tuesday. He was 71 years old and lived in
        Howard M. Teichmann, for many years a witty presence on Broadway as a playwright, biographer and raconteur, and the author with George S. Kaufman of the 1953 comedy hit ''The Solid Gold Cadillac,'' died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) Tuesday. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Teichmann, a slender man with a commanding voice and courtly manner, was a stylish storyteller who drew on a rich fount of anecdotes about the many people he came to know in the theater, journalism and publishing.
        That love of anecdote was apparent in his best-selling biographies of Mr. Kaufman (''George S. Kaufman: An Intimate Portrait,'' 1972), the critic Alexander Woollcott (''Smart Aleck: The Wit, World and Life of Alexander Woollcott,'' 1976) and Alice Roosevelt Longworth, the daughter of Theodore Roosevelt (''Alice: The Life and Times of Alice Roosevelt Longworth,'' 1979). He also wrote the biography ''Fonda: My Life'' in collaboration with Henry Fonda. It was published in 1981.
        In reviewing the Longworth book for The New York Times, Richard F. Shepard said: ''Mr. Teichmann writes in easy, gossipy fashion that makes yesteryear's barbs at figures long gone seem as fresh as the latest three-dot report of a political soiree.'' A Delicate Labor
        The biography of Mr. Kaufman, the author of such theater classics as ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' and ''You Can't Take It With You,'' was an intimate, delicate labor for Mr. Teichmann, since the two had collaborated on ''The Solid Gold Cadillac.''
        The comedy, which starred Josephine Hull on the stage and Judy Holliday in the 1956 film, spoofed big business by focusing on a pesky stockholder who asks embarrassing questions, leads a stockholders' revolt and eventually becomes the company's vice president, winning its chairman's heart to boot.
        Mr. Teichmann poked fun at party politics in ''The Girls in 509'' (1958), which starred Imogene Coca and Peggy Wood and opened to mixed reviews, and trade unionism in ''A Rainy Day in Newark,'' which had a short run in 1963. ''The basis of satire,'' he told an interviewer, ''is that you can't do it to something or somebody small.''
        He turned to a more serious play in 1957, when he adapted Nathanael West's ''Miss Lonelyhearts,'' a novel about an advice columnist who is overcome by the pain of the letters he must read. It was later made into a film. Worked for Orson Welles
        Howard Miles Teichmann, known as Tyke to friends, was born Jan. 22, 1916, in Chicago. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1938 and began his career as stage manager for Orson Welles's Mercury Theater of the Air, writing scripts and producing shows.
        During World War II, he was a senior editor for the Office of War Information and a consultant on radio. Returning to radio in civilian life, he wrote for the ''Campbell Playhouse,'' ''Helen Hayes Theater,'' ''Texaco Star Theater,'' ''CBS Workshop,'' ''Cavalcade of America'' and the ''Gertrude Lawrence Revue.''
        For the fledgling television industry, he wrote ''A Day in the Life of a Chorus Girl,'' collaborated on the script for ''The American Road'' - the 50th-anniversary show of the Ford Motor Company - and wrote scripts for such anthology programs as ''Theater U.S.A.''
        His first efforts for the theater, a play about two 19th-century buccaneer lawyers and one that took place in a district attorney's office, never made it to opening night. But ''Solid Gold Cadillac'' was a smash hit, running from Nov. 5, 1953, through Feb. 12, 1955. Adapted Biography
        Mr. Teichmann also wrote and directed a one-character adaptation of the Woollcott biography that was presented at the American Place Theater in 1979.
        From 1962 until 1972, he was executive vice president of the Shubert theater organization, advising the company on plays to produce.
        Through all the twists of his career, one constant was his job as a professor in Barnard College's English department, where for more than 40 years he taught the craft of writing for stage, screen, television and radio. He was also a frequent contributor to The New York Times Book Review and other publications.
        Mr. Teichmann is survived by his wife, Evelyn; a daughter, Judith Teichmann Steckler of New York, and two grandchildren, David and Lynn.
        No funeral services are planned.
      