
       George R. Vila, a former chairman and president of Uniroyal, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 78 years old and also lived in Sharon, Conn.
        George R. Vila, a former chairman and president of Uniroyal, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 78 years old and also lived in Sharon, Conn.
        Mr. Vila was trained as a chemical engineer and contributed to the rubber industry's growth through his role in helping develop synthetic rubber during World War II. He was named president of the United States Rubber Company, later renamed Uniroyal Inc., in 1960, its chief executive officer in 1962, and chairman of the board and chairman of the executive committee in 1965.
        Mr. Vila was born in Philadelphia. He received his bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University in 1932 and a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1933. 'Jobs Were Scarce'
        Although he preferred the chemical business to rubber, his first job was as a $100-a-month production and development engineer with the Boston Woven Hose and Rubber Company. ''I didn't choose the rubber industry,'' he said in a 1962 interview. ''There was no choice in those days. Jobs were scarce, and you were fortunate to get one at all.''
        In 1936, he joined Naugatuck Chemical, a division of United States Rubber, as a technical salesman. He was transferred to Naugatuck's research and development department in 1942 and was promoted to research and development manager for synthetic rubber the following year.
        During World War II, he was a member of the technical industrial intelligence committee of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He was sent to Germany in 1945 to study the rubber industry there. Information he obtained on cold polymerization helped him initiate research that led to a new type of synthetic rubber.
        He became general manager of Naugatuck Chemical in 1953 and a vice president of United States Rubber in 1957. He retired in 1975.
        Mr. Vila is survived by his wife, Jeanine; two sons from a previous marriage, John D., of Manhattan, and Richard M., of Block Island, R.I.; a sister, Lillian Davies of Medford Lakes, N.J.; two brothers, Harry S., of Blue Bell, Pa., and Joseph S., of Milwaukee, and a grandson.
        GEORGE VILA DIES
      