
       Dr. Benjamin G. Levich, an internationally prominent physical chemist who won a six-year effort to emigrate from the Soviet Union, died of cardiac arrest Monday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J.
        Dr. Benjamin G. Levich, an internationally prominent physical chemist who won a six-year effort to emigrate from the Soviet Union, died of cardiac arrest Monday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J.
        Dr. Levich was the founder of physicochemical hydrodynamics, a field of science that brings together several disciplines. He was regarded as the most prominent Jewish scientist to be permitted to leave the Soviet Union when he and his late wife, Tanya, received exit visas in 1978, six years after applying for them. In 1974, the couple's sons, Evgeny and Alexander, were told they could leave, and they did so in 1975.
        Dr. Levich was a professor at Moscow University when he applied in March 1972 to leave for Israel. He was told he could not go because he had been privy to nuclear secrets. He was dismissed from his teaching post and removed as head of the Hydrodynamics Institute.
        He was allowed to leave after an outcry from the international scientific community. In July 1977, more than 100 Western scientists held a three-day conference in Oxford, England, to draw attention to Dr. Levich's plight. Release From Soviet Granted
        His release was finally secured after a visit to the Soviet Union in September 1978 by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, who was told that authorities were reviewing the Levich case.
        Dr. Levich was the only member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences ever allowed to emigrate, but in 1979 he was dismissed from the academy because he had given up his citizenship as part of emigration.
        When Dr. Levich and his wife left the Soviet Union in December 1978, they went to Israel, but Dr. Levich had invitations to teach at universities in Britain, the United States and other countries.
        In March 1979, Dr. Levich accepted an invitation to become Albert Einstein Professor of Science at City College of the City University of New York, a post he held at his death. He was also director of the Institute of Applied Chemical Physics at City College and Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering and Physics. At his death, he was also professor of engineering at Tel Aviv University in Israel.
        Dr. Levich is survived by his sons, Evgeny, of Edgewater, N.J., who is a physics professor at City College, and Alexander, who lives in London, and is with the British Broadcasting Corporation, and three grandchildren. His wife died in 1983 in Switzerland. There are no members of the Levich family living in the Soviet Union, Evgeny Levich said yesterday. He said his father would be buried in Israel on Thursday, and that a memorial service would be held in February at City College.
        DR. BENJAMIN G. LEVICH DIES
      