
       Leslie H. Arps, a founding member of a leading corporate law firm who assisted three New York State investigative commissions, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at New Milford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Leslie H. Arps, a founding member of a leading corporate law firm who assisted three New York State investigative commissions, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at New Milford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Arps was a founder of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, a firm that specializes in corporate mergers and acquisitions. With more than 700 lawyers, it is one of the nation's largest law firms. Mr. Arps continued to work at the firm five days a week until last month.
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Arps earned his bachelor's degree from Stanford University in 1928 and his law degree from Harvard University in 1931. Military Service
        Early in his career, Mr. Arps was an assistant to John M. Harlan, who later became an associate justice of the United States Supreme Court. In 1942, Mr. Harlan recruited Mr. Arps to serve in England as his assistant in the Army Air Force Operations Analysis Section, which analyzed the accuracy of bombing and air gunnery. He achieved the rank of major.
        Mr. Arps helped form the law firm in 1948. Soon after, he began his career in public service. From 1951 to 1953, he was assistant chief counsel to the New York State Crime Commission during its investigation of mob control of the waterfront.
        From 1953 to 1954, he was associate counsel to a state commission investigating the relationship between state agencies and the harness racing industry. And, from 1963 to 1964, he was a consultant to the Moreland Commission, which investigated the administration of the state's alcoholic beverage control law.
        Mr. Arps is survived by his wife, Ruth, of Manhattan, and a sister, Margaret Manning of Wilmington, Del. A memorial service is scheduled for 2 P.M. tomorrow at All Souls Unitarian Church at Lexington Avenue and 80th Street in Manhattan.
      