
       Sidney H. Scheuer, former chairman of the board of the Scheuer Management Corporation and chairman of the National Committee for an Effective Congress, died last night at Roosevelt Hospital of injuries he suffered during a burglary in his Manhattan apartment last week. He was 94 years old.
        Sidney H. Scheuer, former chairman of the board of the Scheuer Management Corporation and chairman of the National Committee for an Effective Congress, died last night at Roosevelt Hospital of injuries he suffered during a burglary in his Manhattan apartment last week. He was 94 years old.
        Mr. Scheuer went into a coma during the burglary July 7 in his apartment at 91 Central Park West. A maid found him with a pillow over his head and he never regained consciousness, a family spokesman said.
        The police said last night that a suspect in the burglary, Tyrone Hardy, 18, of 2050 Eighth Avenue in Manhattan, had surrendered on July 11th and was being held at the city prison on Rikers Island on charges of robbery and assault.
        The charges will be upgraded to homicide, according to Sgt. Raymond O'Donnell, a police spokesman. He said ''numerous witnesses had seen the suspect coming and going from the building.''
        Mr. Scheuer, who was born in Manhattan, was founder of the Scheuer Management Corporation, the parent of numerous worldwide subsidiaries that produce textile fabrics, yarns and chemicals related to the textile industry.
        In World War II, he served as executive director of the Foreign Economics Administration, as well as executive vice president of the United States Commercial Company.
        He was a founding member and chairman of the National Committee for an Effective Congress, a nonpartisan organization that works for the election of liberal, internationally minded Congressional candidates.
        He is survived by three sons, Robert Scheuer and Thomas Scheuer, both of Greenwich, Conn., and Dr. James Scheuer of Manhattan, eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      