
       Charles J. Tobin Jr., who as director of the New York State Catholic Conference for 25 years represented the state's bishops on issues such as divorce and abortion, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Albany. He was 71 years old.
        Charles J. Tobin Jr., who as director of the New York State Catholic Conference for 25 years represented the state's bishops on issues such as divorce and abortion, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Albany. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Tobin began serving as director of the Catholic Conference in 1954, and succeeded his father, who had held the post for more than 30 years. The conference represents the bishops on legal and public policy matters. From 1979 until he retired last year, Mr. Tobin, a partner in the Albany law firm of Tobin and Dempf, served as secretary and general counsel for the conference.
        ''He had great insight into how public morality and public issues intersect,'' said the current director of the Catholic Conference, J. Alan Davitt. ''That perception was derived from his sense of religious values. He was a strong, traditional churchman.''
        Mr. Tobin brought a considerate and reasonable demeanor to countless hearings held by public commissions and legislative committees. He served on President Eisenhower's Advisory Committee on Public Assistance, set up in 1959 to analyze Federal policy toward welfare. Involved in Statewide Issues
        From 1978 until his death, he served on the New York State Commission on the Real Property Tax. He also was a member of the New York State Task Force on Life and Law, established by Governor Cuomo to advise him on right-to-die legislation.
        Mr. Tobin also was a past president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities and, from 1959 until 1964, a member of the executive committee of the New York State Bar Association.
        In 1976, he was proclaimed a Papal Chamberlain, an honor which distinguishes laymen as members of the Pope's household.
        Mr. Tobin was born in Albany and graduated from Yale University in 1937. He received a law degree from Yale three years later. Served in World War II
        During World War II, Mr. Tobin served in the Navy, seeing action in both the Atlantic and the Pacific, and achieving the rank of lieutenant commander.
        Mr. Tobin is survived by his wife, Catharine; four sons, Charles, of Delmar, N.Y., Thomas, of Grand Rapids, Mich., Gerald, of Montclair, N.J., and Gregory, of Boston; two sisters, Alice O'Brien of Albany and Maribeth Tobin of Washington; a brother, Edmund, of East Greenbush, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
        A funeral mass is scheduled for 11 A.M. Friday at St. Catherine of Siena Church in Albany. Burial will be in St. Agnes Cemetery in Menands, N.Y.
        CHARLES J. TOBIN JR. DIES AT 71
      