
       Charles H. Weston, a retired lawyer in the antitrust division of the Justice Department who was influential in the development of antitrust law, has died of natural causes at his home in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        Charles H. Weston, a retired lawyer in the antitrust division of the Justice Department who was influential in the development of antitrust law, has died of natural causes at his home in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        Mr. Weston, who died Aug. 2, joined the antitrust division in 1918 but resigned two years later in opposition to the policies of Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer, who arrested thousands of aliens considered to be subversive in what came to be known as ''Palmer raids.''
        In 1929, after several years in private practice, primarily in Manhattan, Mr. Weston returned to Washington and the antitrust division. From 1943 until he retired in 1961, he was chief of the division's appellate section.
        Mr. Weston's tenure coincided with the Government's most active efforts to bar practices that restrained trade. Its primary weapon was the Clayton Act, passed under the Wilson Administration, which had toughened regulatory legislation. He wrote more than 100 briefs for argument in the Supreme Court. Tested A.M.A. and Segregation
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Weston successfully challenged the American Medical Association after it conspired to prevent physicians and hospitals from serving the members of one of the country's earliest group prepayment plans, Washington's Group Health Association.
        In 1949, he persuaded the Justice Department to enter a case against the Interstate Commerce Commission. The commission argued that blacks traveling on trains in the South could be served meals behind a curtained partition. Mr. Weston contended that this ''separate but equal'' doctrine was unconstitutional.
        Born in Merion Station, Pa., Mr. Weston graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College and the Harvard Law School. His wife, Virginia, died in 1983.  He is survived by a sister, Esther Weston King, of Philadelphia; two daughters, Amy Firfer, of Bethesda, Md., and Virginia Slaughter, of Tappahannock, Va.; a son, Charles H. Jr., of Macomb, Ill., five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      