
       Fernando Ramos da Silva, who played the title role of a young street assailant in the highly acclaimed 1981 Brazilian movie ''Pixote,'' was killed late Tuesday by the police in Sao Paulo. He was reported to have been resisting arrest following an assault.
        Fernando Ramos da Silva, who played the title role of a young street assailant in the highly acclaimed 1981 Brazilian movie ''Pixote,'' was killed late Tuesday by the police in Sao Paulo. He was reported to have been resisting arrest following an assault.
        Mr. Silva, who was 19 years old, had twice been arrested for minor offenses, and had asserted that he was being constantly harassed by the police because they could not distinguish him from the role he played in the film.
        ''I just want people to forget my image as Pixote,'' he told a reporter after his second arrest, in 1985. ''I want a chance to live as a man, without being persecuted. They created a Pixote, but they did not know how to prepare him for life.''
        The police statement that he was killed in a shootout after participation in a mugging was challenged by Mr. Silva's sister, Maria Aparecida Luz. She said he was playing cards at a friend's house when he learned that the police were raiding the area and became fearful that he would be arrested. He fled unarmed, she said, and was chased by the police into another house where he was shot. Had Lived in Slum
        When Mr. Silva was picked from 1,300 young applicants for ''Pixote'' by the director, Hector Babenco, he was living in a Sao Paulo slum with his widowed mother and eight brothers and sisters. While his opportunities in life were limited, he was not living the abandoned street life of a Pixote. He had even played a small part in a local play, at the age of 8.
        The movie's success when he was only 12 years old tossed him from his underprivileged background into the glittery world of show business. He was hired for one year by the television company TV Globo to play a small part in a soap opera, and he appeared briefly as an errand boy in ''Gabriela,'' a Bruno Barreto movie. But acquaintances from the movie world said he never settled down. When he was sent to acting school, he reportedly dropped out after two days.
        After Mr. Silva was arrested on robbery charges in 1984 in the Sao Paulo suburb of Diadema, where he grew up, the Mayor of Duque de Caxias, outside Rio de Janeiro, gave him a house in the neighborhood. His mother and some other family members moved in with him briefly, but they reportedly missed Diadema and all returned there a few months later. 'He Had Two Personalities'
        According to family members, Mr. Silva continued to feel persecuted by his image as Pixote, and wanted to play romantic rather than criminal roles.
        Two years ago, he married Maria Aparecida Venancia da Silva, and friends said that his life became more ordered after the birth of their daughter, Jacqueline.
        ''When I met Fernando,'' his wife said in an interview last year, ''he had two personalities. One was Pixote: aggressive, self-sufficient and dangerous; the other was the real Fernando: emotional, romantic and sensitive.''
        Mr. Silva's sister said he had just returned to Sao Paulo from the northeast, where he had been acting in a play. It was called ''Atalipa My Love,'' she said, and in it he played a hired assassin.
      