
       William S. Moorhead, who represented a Pittsburgh district in Congress for 22 years and sponsored legislation to rescue New York City from its fiscal crisis of the late 1970's, died today of lung cancer at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 64 years old.
        William S. Moorhead, who represented a Pittsburgh district in Congress for 22 years and sponsored legislation to rescue New York City from its fiscal crisis of the late 1970's, died today of lung cancer at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 64 years old.
        In his long House career, Mr. Moorhead was active on a wide range of legislative fronts. At various times, he was a prominent critic of Pentagon cost overruns, a leader in establishing the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, floor manager of freedom-of-information legislation that opened Government documents to the public, and chief sponsor of the bill that established a synthetic fuels corporation. Retired After 11 Terms
        Mr. Moorhead retired from the House in 1980 rather than seek a 12th term, having served as a House Democrat since 1958. For the last seven years, he practiced law in the Washington firm of Coan, Couture, Lyons & Moorhead.
        A graduate of Phillips Andover Academy, Yale and the Harvard Law School, Mr. Moorhead was an early political protege of Mayor David Lawrence of Pittsburgh, who later became Governor of Pennsylvania and was for many years the Democratic leader of the state.
        He served as an assistant city solicitor in Pittsburgh before winning election to Congress. In the House, he was a member of the Banking and Government Operations committees and the Joint Economic Committee. Took on Unpopular Cause
        It was as chairman of the economic stabilization subcommittee of the Banking Committee that the Pennsylvanian presided in 1978 over hearings on Federal loan assistance to hard-pressed New York City. It was not a popular cause with many lawmakers, but Mr. Moorhead, with his politically secure constituency, was willing to take it on. He was later active in support of legislation that helped save the Chrysler Corporation from bankruptcy.
        Before attending law school, Mr. Moorhead served as a Navy officer aboard a destroyer in the Pacific. In 1981 after his retirement, a 23-story Federal office building in Pittsburgh was named in his honor.
        He is survived by his widow, the former Lucy Galpin, of The Plains, Va.; a daughter, Perrin Moorhead Grayson of Baltimore; and three sons, William S. Moorhead 3d of Washington, Stephen G. Moorhead of Boston and James B. Moorhead of Columbia, Md.
      