
       Lee Marvin, who rebelled against a sheltered childhood to build an image as the consummate ''tough guy'' in the movies and in real life, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona. He was 63 years old.
        Lee Marvin, who rebelled against a sheltered childhood to build an image as the consummate ''tough guy'' in the movies and in real life, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Marvin won an Academy Award in 1966 for his role in ''Cat Ballou,'' and he played an unwanted part in a landmark ''palimony'' suit that set a precedent for legal cases involving property rights for unmarried couples.
        Tom Reavis, a spokesman for the hospital, told The Associated Press that Mr. Marvin died about noon, with his wife, Pamela, at his side. He had been hospitalized since Aug. 13 with what Mr. Reavis described as a run-down condition related to the flu.
        Last December, Mr. Marvin underwent intestinal surgery after suffering abdominal pains while at his ranch outside of Tucson. Doctors said then there was an inflammation of the colon, but that no malignancy was found.
        Mr. Marvin was born into a well-to-do New York City family in 1924. At the age of 4, he ran away from home and was not found for two days. ''I wasn't having any too much discipline even then,'' Mr. Marvin said in a 1966 interview.
        He was sent to a succession of exclusive Eastern boarding schools, and was expelled from many of them for such infractions as throwing a roommate from a second-floor window and for smoking cigarettes.
        In 1942, with permission from his father, who was an advertising executive, Mr. Marvin dropped out of a prep school in Florida to join the Marines. ''After a sheltered life I went the other way,'' Mr. Marvin said. ''I wanted to prove how tough I was.''
        Mr. Marvin made 21 landings on Pacific islands as a scout sniper before a Japanese bullet severed a nerve just below the spine and left him hospitalized and in rehabilitation for 13 months.
        When he recovered, Mr. Marvin drifted aimlessly through a score of menial jobs until his work as a plumber's apprentice - digging septic tanks near his family's home in Woodstock, N.Y. - took him to a local summer-stock playhouse. As a lark, he asked for and won an acting job.
        After a series of small roles, he earned a part in a Broadway production of ''Billy Budd.'' That was followed in the early 1950's by more than 200 featured roles in television dramas. And those roles led to a part as an extra in the movie ''You're in the Navy Now,'' which prompted Mr. Marvin to move to the West Coast.
        Soon after arriving in Hollywood, he played the widely acclaimed part of a psychopathic multiple murderer in an early episode of ''Dragnet.'' That role, perhaps more than any, led him to be typecast as a ''bad guy.''
        The movie critic Bosley Crowther said of Mr. Marvin, ''He is rapidly becoming the No. 1 sadist of the screen.''
        From 1957 to 1960, Mr. Marvin was able to break out of the bad-guy mold to play a tough but sympathetic police lieutenant in the popular television series ''M Squad.''
        His first starring role in a motion picture came in 1965 in ''Cat Ballou'' in which he played a dual role - as a drunken gunfighter and his more professional gunslinging brother - opposite Jane Fonda. The role won him the Academy Award.
        To receive his award, Mr. Marvin had to take five days off from filming of what would become another of his signature roles, that of the quick-fisted, hard-driving commander of a platoon of condemned Army convicts who are offered one last chance to redeem themselves in ''The Dirty Dozen.'' Respondent in 'Palimony' Suit
        His other well-known movie roles include ''The Caine Mutiny'' (1954); ''The Iceman Cometh'' (1973); ''The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance'' (1962); ''Raintree County'' (1957); ''Paint Your Wagon'' (1969); ''Bad Day at Black Rock'' (1955); ''Donovan's Reef'' (1963); ''The Wild One'' (1954)' ''The Glory Brigade'' (1953); ''Ship of Fools'' (1965), and ''Eight Iron Men'' (1952). His most recent movie role was in 1985 in ''Gorky Park.'' In all, Mr. Marvin acted in 56 movies.
        In 1979, Mr. Marvin was the respondent in a landmark case that constituted the first legal test of ''palimony,'' or the reciprocal property rights of unmarried couples.
        He was sued by Michele Triola Marvin, a former singer with whom he had lived for six years. Ms. Marvin, who on her own had legally changed her last name from Triola, contended in her suit that she and Mr. Marvin had an agreement to share the property acquired during the relationship. She sought half of the $3.6 million that he had earned while they lived together, and $100,000 for the loss of her career.
        In April 1979, after a sensational 11-week trial in which a number of Hollywood celebrities testified in support of Mr. Marvin, Judge Arthur K. Marshall of California Superior Court rejected the claims of Ms. Marvin. The judge said he found no legal basis for her contention that she had either an expressed or implicit contract with Mr. Marvin to share his assets.
        The judge did, however, award her $104,000, the equivalent of $1,000 a week for two years, which was equal to the highest amount she had earned during her career. The award was made, the judge said, so ''she may have the economic means to re-educate herself and to learn new employable skills.'' In 1981, a California State Court of Appeal reversed Judge Marshall's award of the $104,000.
      