
       Jesse M. Unruh, a flamboyant Democratic politician who for a time wielded national influence from his base in California government, died of cancer Tuesday night at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 64 years old.
        Jesse M. Unruh, a flamboyant Democratic politician who for a time wielded national influence from his base in California government, died of cancer Tuesday night at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 64 years old.
        From an impoverished childhood in West Texas, Mr. Unruh rose to prominence in the California Assembly, of which he was Speaker from 1961 to 1968. A blunt-speaking virtuoso of backroom politics, Mr. Unruh earned a reputation as the one of the most influential state legislators in the land.
        In his heyday he was second only to the Governor in power in the state. He was credited with molding the State Legislature into a well-staffed, full-time body that some poliical scientists described as a model.
        ''Legislatures,'' he said, ''must be aggressive and compete in the marketplace of ideas with both the state executive and the Federal Government.'' A Dependable Political Ally
        From his base in Sacramento, Mr. Unruh, who had a distaste for travel, also cultivated an impressive list of national allies, who learned they could depend on him for political help.
        A strong and early supporter of John F. Kennedy for President, Mr. Unruh led Kennedy's California delegates to the 1960 Democratic National Convention. As the California campaign manager of Senator Robert F. Kennedy's Presidential bid, Mr. Unruh was at the Senator's side when he was fatally wounded in Los Angeles on June 5, 1968.
        Mr. Unruh's critics accused him of exploiting his office and upgrading the Legislature as a way to build his own political machine at the expense of Edmund G. Brown Sr., who was then the Governor. The feud became public, causing a schism in the state Democratic Party. And when Ronald Reagan was elected Governor in 1966, Mr. Brown called Mr. Unruh ''the architect of my defeat.''
        Yesterday, President Reagan said: ''Jesse Unruh brought a deep and abiding dedication to the causes in which he believed. We knew each other for many years, and I always respected his devotion to the State of California, and to the people he served.''
        Even his critics conceded that Mr. Unruh was responsible for the passage of much liberal legislation, including civil rights statutes, a mental health program and educational changes. The Split With the Governor
        Mr. Unruh sponsored a range of consumer legislation, including the Credit Reporting Act of 1959, which protected those who buy on installment contracts. He also generated momentum for revision of California's Constitution, helped assure passage of a $150 million bond issue for state beaches and parks, and established an agency to try to save Lake Tahoe from commercial blight.
        After losing his Speaker's post in 1968 and suffering a series of political setbacks, Mr. Unruh was elected State Treasurer in 1974, an obscure post whose duties had long emphasized bookkeeping. In characteristic fashion, he soon transformed the job into a source of financial and political power that reached from California to Wall Street.
        ''Money,'' he was quoted as saying, ''is the mother's milk of politics.''
        As Treasurer, Mr. Unruh gained membership on boards and commissions responsible for overseeing the raising and expenditure of virtually all the state's money and consolidated his influence over billions of dollars in public investments and pension funds.
        ''True, Jesse Unruh may have benefited slightly,'' he said in 1985, defending the concentration of power that resulted. ''But hell, there's been a lot more benefits for California.'' 'Only the Toughest' Survived
        Jesse Marvin Unruh was born on Sept. 30, 1922, in Newton, Kan., and was reared in the chaparral country of West Texas. He was the youngest of five children.
        ''The central reality of our youth,'' he once said, ''was economic - the Depression.'' Then, he said, ''only the toughest, the most ruthless would survive and succeed.''
        A scholarship student at Wayland Baptist College in Plainview, Tex., Mr. Unruh went on to serve in the Navy in World War II. He then settled in California, where he completed his studies at the University of Southern California in 1948. Even before graduation, he was active in Democratic politics, running for the State Assembly in 1948. In 1954, after a second unsuccessful attempt, he won election to the State Assembly.
        As one veteran of the Legislature in Sacramento put it, ''Unruh said nothing and learned everything'' in his first session at the capitol, and he quickly scaled the ladder of government. From 1957 to 1959 he served as chairman of a committee on finance, and in 1959 became chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. On his 39th birthday he was elected Speaker.
        Mr. Unruh married Virginia June Lemon in 1943 and was divorced in 1977. They had a daughter and four sons: Linda, Bruce, Bradley, Robert and Randall. In 1986 he married his second wife, the former Chris Edwards.
      