
       Myles J. Lane, a former United States Attorney in Manhattan and a retired State Supreme Court justice, died of Alzheimer's disease at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 84 years old.
        Myles J. Lane, a former United States Attorney in Manhattan and a retired State Supreme Court justice, died of Alzheimer's disease at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Lane, who was an all-America football player and a professional hockey player, spent four decades in the criminal justice system hunting down criminals, investigating corruption and exposing the evils of the day.
        As chairman of the State Investigation Commission, he helped expose racketeering and Mafia influence at Kennedy International Airport in the late 1960's.
        As a Supreme Court justice he ruled on matters serious and sublime, from violations of election laws by New York City officials to a tenant's right to a dog, despite restrictions in her lease, because of ''rampant crime.'' Active Prosecutor
        And as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York in the early 1950's, he prosecuted 13 secondary Communist leaders, who were convicted of criminal conspiracy, and brought charges of tax evasion against the late Frank Costello, the notorious crime boss.
        As an assistant in that office he also helped prosecute Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were later executed after having been convicted of conspiracy to violate the espionage laws.
        Mr. Lane, a 6-foot, 200-pounder, brought to courtrooms and hearing rooms the air of determination that he had displayed in sports as a young man.
        He was born in Melrose, Mass., and won all-America recognition as a halfback at Dartmouth College, where he led the nation in scoring. He was also a hockey and football star at the college.
        After graduating in 1928, he entered professional hockey, joining the New York Rangers who three months later sold his contract to the Boston Bruins. He was with the Bruins when they won the Stanley Cup in 1929. Football Coach
        From 1932 to 1933 he was varsity head football coach at Boston University and in 1934 was a backfield coach at Harvard. His earnings helped finance his studies at Boston College Law School, where he graduated in 1934.
        He came to New York and joined the firm of O'Connor & Farber. Three years later he was appointed an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District.
        He spent four years in the Navy in World War II, leaving as a commander. After the war he rejoined the United States Attorney's office, becoming chief assistant. In September 1951 he was appointed United States Attorney, a position he held until April 1953, when he returned to private law practice.
        He was chairman of a committee to study narcotics problems when he was appointed by former Gov. W. Averell Harriman in 1958 to the State Investigation Commission.
        A Democrat, he served at first on a rotating basis with other Investigation Commission members but later held the chairmanship on a permanant basis. Many Investigations
        During his years with the commission, until his election to the Supreme Court in Manhattasn in 1968, the agency looked into issues such as school building flaws, hospital abuses, underworld activities and bid-rigging on New York City purchases of rock salt.
        One of the consequences of the 1960 rock salt investigation was the suspension by former Mayor Robert F. Wagner of his Purchase Commissioner, Joseph V. Spagna, for refusing to answer the commission's questions. Mr. Spagna subsequently resigned.
        In the dog case in 1970 in State Supreme Court, Judge Lane ruled in a case that had caught the fancy of landlords and tenants. He held that ''the present circumnstances of rampant crime'' allowed a woman on Grand Street to keep her schnauzer despite a lease forbidding dogs. He was subsequently overruled by an appeals court.
        Judge Lane was himself appointed in 1974 to the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, First Department, a position from which he retired in 1979.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a brother, Francis, and a sister, Eileen Sullivan, both of Melrose, Mass.
      