
       Camille Nimer Chamoun, former President of Lebanon, a prominent Christian leader who survived four attempts to kill him in a political career over five decades, died in a hospital today of a heart attack. He was 87 years old.
        Camille Nimer Chamoun, former President of Lebanon, a prominent Christian leader who survived four attempts to kill him in a political career over five decades, died in a hospital today of a heart attack. He was 87 years old.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Chamoun was Minister of Finance in Lebanon's caretaker Cabinet. On Wednesday, he had become embroiled in a heated public dispute with Prime Minister Selim al-Hoss over ways to ease Lebanon's deteriorating economic situation. The split broke into the open after five fruitless rounds of talks.
        ''The nation is heading toward total bankruptcy and famine,'' Mr. Chamoun said. It was last statement.
        Mr. Chamoun, an outspoken critic of Syria, the Palestine Liberation Organization and pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem militia factions, died in Christian East Beirut, where he was rushed Thursday night after suffering what his doctors described as a cardiac seizure. Known as 'the Tiger'
        Mr. Chamoun, an urbane figure who could have passed for a matinee idol in his younger days, was long known to his followers as ''the Tiger'' - the Arabic translation of his middle name, as well as the basis of his militia's name.
        A lawyer by education, Mr. Chamoun was chosen President by Parliament in 1952 and served a six-year term. But he had been a force in Lebanese politics from the time the country gained independence from France 43 years ago.
        Mr. Chamoun, who was head of the principal Christian alliance, the Lebanese Front, remained a leading Christian spokesman to the end of his life.
        He was first elected to Parliament in 1929, when the country was under French mandate. In 1943, he was named Interior Minister in Lebanon's first post-independence Cabinet. Formed National Liberal Party
        After he left the presidency in 1958, Mr. Chamoun created the National Liberal Party, which he headed until last year when he stepped down and turned it over to his youngest son, Dany, 37.
        His eldest son, Dory, 55, shunned politics for business.
        Five years ago, when Mr. Chamoun was 82, the National Liberal Party nominated him to run for the presidency against Amin Gemayel, a son of his archrival, Pierre Gemayel, long the country's dominant Christian figure. Mr. Amin had become the Phalangist candidate after the assassination of his older brother, Bashir, who two years before had crushed Mr. Chamoun's militia in a drive for control of all Christian forces.
        Mr. Chamoun's candidacy for another term as President had the support of many Moslem politicians. But a few days before the vote in September 1982, he withdrew for the sake of national unity, thus insuring Mr. Gemayel's election. Massacre of Refugees a Shock
        There were reports that a major factor in Mr. Chamoun's decision was the shock of the news, several days before, that Israeli-backed Lebanese Christian militiamen had killed scores of Palestinian civilians in two refugee camps on the southern outskirts of Beirut.
        While President, Mr. Chamoun made many enemies, especially after he endorsed the Middle East policies of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's Administration. It was Mr. Chamoun, in fact, who was a key player in the first American military intervention in Lebanon.
        In July 1958, he asked President Eisenhower for help to quell an uprising by Moslem nationalists and leftists. The United States dispatched 5,000 marines and soldiers, who encircled Beirut and occupied parts of it for nearly four months.
        Mr. Chamoun, explaining his decision to turn against the leftist, pan-Arab policies of Egypt and Syria, said Lebanon had to align itself with the anti-Communist policies of the United States if it was to survive. Neutralism, he said, was not an option.
        ''We must be either with the East or the West,'' he was quoted as having said in a 1957 speech. Presidency Goes to Christians
        The American forces were withdrawn in October 1958 after a settlement was devised in which another Christian, Gen. Fuad Shebab, succeeded Mr. Chamoun, and one of the Moslem insurgent leaders, Rashid Karami, became Prime Minister. By tradition in the mixed society, Lebanon's Presidents have been Maronite Christians and its Prime Ministers Sunni Moslems.
        Mr. Chamoun also took credit for initiating the relationship with Israel that led the Israelis to send aid to the Christians when the struggle between Lebanese and Palestinians erupted in 1975.
        Mr. Chamoun, who when he was chief delegate to the United Nations in 1948 often described himself as defender of the Palestinian cause, publicly renounced it 10 years ago after P.L.O. guerrillas and their Lebanese leftist allies stormed and destroyed his seaside villa south of Beirut.
        As President, Mr. Chamoun, who was fluent in English as well as in French and Arabic, was credited with measures that made Lebanon the business and banking center of the Middle East. He instituted banking secrecy, which encouraged investors from Arab oil states to deposit enormous sums in Lebanon's 72 private banks.
        The civil war that shattered Lebanon's prosperity also drove Mr. Chamoun and his family out of their hometown of Deir al-Qamar, in the Druse-controlled Shuf Mountains southeast of Beirut, where Mr. Chamoun was born in 1900. His exact birthdate is unknown.
        He is survived by his two sons. His wife, Zelpha, died of cancer in 1971.
      