
       Myron Stout, the searching, reclusive painter whose simple, concentrated geometric drawings and paintings made him one of the most respected abstract artists of the last 25 years, died of lung cancer Sunday in Chatham, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Provincetown.
        Myron Stout, the searching, reclusive painter whose simple, concentrated geometric drawings and paintings made him one of the most respected abstract artists of the last 25 years, died of lung cancer Sunday in Chatham, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Provincetown.
        Mr. Stout's mature work is a bridge between Abstract Expressionism and Minimalism. He took the simplifications of Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko and went one step further by eliminating color. But into his minimal black and white compositions he built a feeling for matter and light that links him to Newman, Rothko and other artists of his Abstract Expressionist generation.
        Stout's shapes could hardly seem more basic. They can be circles or ovals. They can resemble chairs, boomerangs or limbs. Sometimes they are white and set in a black ground; sometimes the figure is black and the ground is white.
        Drawing was the basis of Mr. Stout's art. The process of thinking and seeing mattered as much to him as completion, if not more. At a time when speed and production became increasingly prominent in the art world, Mr. Stout worked on individual drawings and paintings for more than 10 years. Like Brancusi and Mondrian, he knew that the simpler the vocabulary, the more the slightest variation in edge and tone would alter meaning. 'Metaphysical Photographs'
        In the catalogue to his retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1980, B. F. Friedman wrote that Mr. Stout ''has made from his deepest feelings what amount to ritual objects - objects so physical, so full of the grain and texture of life that they suggest metaphysical photographs taken somehow simultaneously at the dazzling speed of light and at the slow, grinding pace of eternity.''
        Mr. Stout was born in Denton, Tex., in 1908. He decided to be a painter while a senior at North Texas State University. He played the piano and was well read. He admired Georges Seurat, with his combination of density and discretion, and the ''purer'' developments of abstraction in Europe.
        In 1948 he went to study with Hans Hofmann. In the catalogue to the Whitney retrospective, Sanford Schwartz, who organized the show, wrote that Hofmann ''had a special, immediate potency for Stout because his formulations and analogies - about how colors and shapes must be made to wrestle with, and eventually find peace with, each other - have a musical logic to them.''
        In the late 1940's and early 50's, Mr. Stout's paintings were distinguished by strong, yet resolutely concise movement. Around that time, he arrived at the small easel format he would be most comfortable with. Inspired by the Greek tragedies of Sophocles and Aeschylus, he began working in black and white.
        He showed with the Stable Gallery and the Hansa Gallery in New York. He was awarded a Guggenheim in 1969. In 1977 he had a retrospective at the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston. His work is in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Carnegie Institute Museum of Art and institutions around the world.
        There will be a memorial service in Provincetown on Sept. 20.
        Correction:  August 12, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      