
       Former Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, who was once accused by the United States of being a war criminal and later fought for the treaty that governs American-Japanese security relations, died today in a Tokyo hospital after months of illness. He was 90 years old.
        Former Prime Minister Nobusuke Kishi, who was once accused by the United States of being a war criminal and later fought for the treaty that governs American-Japanese security relations, died today in a Tokyo hospital after months of illness. He was 90 years old.
        Despite his advanced age, Mr. Kishi remained until recently a strong behind-the-scenes influence in Japan's long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party.
        An ardent nationalist who opposed the war-renouncing Constitution imposed on Japan by the United States in 1947, he was a dominant force in creating the party in 1955 from a coalition of two conservative groups. Rarely far from power, he was the brother of another Prime Minister, Eisaku Sato, and the father-in-law of a politician who hopes to become the country's next leader, Shintaro Abe. Ousted Over Treaty With U.S.  But to most Americans, Mr. Kishi will probably be best remembered as the Prime Minister who was forced from office in 1960 because of huge street protests by snake-dancing demonstrators opposed to a new security treaty between the United States and Japan. The disturbances, although short-lived and free of violence, threw Japan into its most serious postwar political crisis.
        Anti-Government forces attacked the new treaty as being tilted against Japan, even though it was far more favorable in most respects than the earlier treaty, which had been signed in 1951.
        Under the 1960 agreement, the United States committed itself to defend Japan in case of attack, and in effect gave the Japanese veto power over the use of nuclear weapons in their country. There was no requirement that Japan come to the assistance of the United States in the event of war.
        The critics noted that the first treaty was forced upon Japan by the American occupation. To them, the new agreement was worse because it was being voluntarily accepted by a now-sovereign Japan. Forced Through Parliament
        Mr. Kishi ignited the crisis by forcing the treaty through the Japanese Parliament in May 1960.
        He viewed the accord as a symbol of independent Japanese diplomacy and as a way to solidify close relations with Washington. Moreover, he wanted the treaty passed before a visit to Tokyo, scheduled for mid-June, by President Dwight D. Eisenhower; that required legislative action no later than May.
        And so, on May 20, while the opposition boycotted the Parliament and was unaware of what was going on, the ruling party passed the treaty on its own. Mr. Kishi was widely denounced as high-handed and undemocratic.
        As protests swelled, Mr. Eisenhower was forced to cancel his trip, and in July, after more than three years in office, Mr. Kishi was compelled to step down.
        The treaty, however, remains in effect. Turned Against Tojo in 1944
        That Mr. Kishi had risen to his country's highest office in 1957, only 12 years after the end of World War II, offered testament to the relative lack of postwar self-recrimination among Japanese - certainly when compared with the internal debates that still hound their wartime allies, the Germans. It would be difficult even now to imagine an accused war criminal, as Mr. Kishi has been, assuming the leadership of either of the Germanies.
        From 1941 to 1944, he was the Minister of Commerce and Industry, responsible for economic mobilization. As a result, he was part of the Cabinet of Prime Minister Hideki Tojo that ordered the attack on Pearl Harbor and declared war against the United States in December 1941.
        The Tojo Cabinet fell in July 1944, but even before then, Mr. Kishi wrote later, he had disagreed with the Prime Minister's insistence on pressing a war that Japan clearly could not win.
        After the formal Japanese surrender in September 1945, Mr. Kishi was among many Japanese leaders characterized by the occupation forces as Class A war criminals, and he sat in the Sugamo Prison in Tokyo for more than three years. But he was never brought before the Allied War Crimes Tribunals, for the United States decided in 1948 to release suspects in an attempt to bolster Japan as a conservative, anti-Communist bastion.
        Five years later, Mr. Kishi was elected to Parliament as a member of the Liberal Party. Two years after that, the Liberals and the Democratic Party formed the Liberal Democratic coalition that continues to rule. In December 1956, Mr. Kishi was named Foreign Minister, and only two months later his political comeback became complete when he became Prime Minister. From Fascism to Democracy
        ''How did he ever make this complete about-face from fascism to democracy?'' a commentator, Shinnosuke Abe, wrote in 1953 for the magazine Bungei Shunju.
        ''I do not comprehend the psychological process leading to that change,'' Mr. Abe said. ''It may perhaps be that his fascism was in fact a fake needed for the pursuit of his bureaucratic career, and his present democracy is just another fake to meet the demand of his present political life.''
        A slight man with prominent facial features, Mr. Kishi was born on Nov. 13, 1896, in western Yamaguchi Prefecture. His original family name was Sato, but, following a custom still commonly observed in Japan, he took the name Kishi when he was adopted by his uncle's family because it had no male children.
        He studied law at Tokyo University and graduated in 1920, and he later held several ministry posts. He was considered one of the so-called new bureaucrats, who were good at their work and also were willing to cooperate with military leaders then consolidating political power. From 1936 to 1939, he had various assignments in Manchukuo, as Japan called its puppet state in occupied Manchuria.
        Mr. Kishi's wife, Yoshiko, died years ago. He is survived by a son, Nobukazu, and a daughter, Yoko, who is married to Shintaro Abe. Mr. Abe is a former Foreign Minister and one of three men considered the most likely candidates to become Japan's next Prime Minister this fall.
      