
       Thomas J. Cuite, who retired in 1985 after 16 years as majority leader of the New York City Council, died of a heart attack yesterday morning at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Thomas J. Cuite, who retired in 1985 after 16 years as majority leader of the New York City Council, died of a heart attack yesterday morning at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        As majority leader of the Council, a political body that traditionally has very few Republicans, Mr. Cuite wielded considerable power, with committee assignments and chairmanships being the most obvious means. His support or opposition often sealed the fate of bills.
        Mr. Cuite was a confidant of Mayors Koch, Robert F. Wagner, John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame. He also served as an adviser to John Cardinal O'Connor and his two predecessors, Terence Cardinal Cook and Francis Cardinal Spellman.
        At the time of his retirement from politics, Mr. Cuite, a Democrat, was the senior Council member, having represented his district - covering the Park Slope, Cobble Hill, Sunset Park and Windsor Terrace sections of Brooklyn - since 1959. He was a State Senator before joining the City Council. Art of Legislative Compromise
        A spokesman for the City Council, J. M. Fitzpatrick, said Mr. Cuite was stricken last Tuesday with the same type of transient ischemic attack that Mr. Koch was diagnosed as having suffered Thursday.
        The disorder, a temporary reduction of blood flow to part of the brain, rarely leads to serious complications, and Mr. Fitzpatrick said Mr. Cuite's physicians did not regard it as a contributing cause of death. Instead, Mr. Fitzpatrick said, doctors said Mr. Cuite had died of heart failure.
        A slight, quiet, bespectacled man, Mr. Cuite was known for his hard work, fast walk and ready smile. ''The art of legislation is many times compromise,'' he told an interviewer a few years ago.
        To many of his associates, his quiet ways also symbolized much of what they deemed wrong with the workings of the Council. Chief among those perceived flaws was what some saw as that legislative body's deference to the mayor in Mr. Cuite's tenure as majority leader and vice chairman.
        His retirement gave way to a markedly more assertive Council under his successor, Peter F. Vallone of Queens.
        As Council vice chairman - there is no chairman - Mr. Cuite held sway over a staff of 90 people and a multimillion-dollar budget. Before he was elected to his leadership posts in 1969, he served for five years as chairman of the Finance Committee.
        Mr. Vallone, visibly shaken by the news of Mr. Cuite's death yesterday, called Mr. Cuite ''the epitome of the dedicated, incorruptible public servant and an inspiration to two generations of lawmakers here and in Albany.''
        ''Tom Cuite was a superb public servant who loved the City Council of which he was the majority leader and the city of which he was a son,'' Mayor Koch said yesterday through a spokesman, Leland T. Jones. ''For him, first and foremost, was his faith in God and his religion, which was so evident in the years of outstanding public service he provided to the city.''
        Governor Cuomo said of Mr. Cuite: ''He was a colleague for all of the years that I have been in government and a friend for years before that. He was a committed public servant and a caring human being who never forgot where he came from.''
        Thomas Joseph Cuite (pronounced CUTE) was born in Brooklyn on March 4, 1913, the day of President Woodrow Wilson's inauguration, which Mr. Cuite often liked to point out. His father, Thomas F. Cuite, was a real-estate broker, Democratic district captain, aide to three Borough Presidents and a secretary to Supreme Court justices.
        Mr. Cuite attended parochial schools and graduated from St. Francis College in 1935. He joined his family's real-estate business and remained with it until politics claimed his attention full-time.
        In World War II, he joined the Army Coast Artillery Corps, became a first sergeant at Fort Hancock, N.J., was commissioned and eventually left the service as a lieutenant colonel.
        He was elected to the State Senate in 1953 and served until 1958.
        Mr. Cuite is survived by his wife, Kathlyn Killeen Cuite; a son, Thomas J. Jr.; a daughter, Cathlyn Rooney, all of Brooklyn, and six grandchildren.
        Arrangements were being made yesterday for a wake, scheduled for today and tomorrow at the Joseph G. Duffy funeral home in Brooklyn, 255 Ninth Street at Fourth Avenue. A funeral mass has been scheduled for 10:30 A.M. Wednesday at the Basilica of Our Lady of Perpetual Help, at 60th Street and Fifth Avenue in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn.
      