
       Patrick Cardinal O'Boyle, who in 1948 became the first Roman Catholic Archbishop of Washington, D.C., and held the post for a quarter of a century, died yesterday morning at Providence Hospital in Washington after a brief illness. He was 91 years old.
        Patrick Cardinal O'Boyle, who in 1948 became the first Roman Catholic Archbishop of Washington, D.C., and held the post for a quarter of a century, died yesterday morning at Providence Hospital in Washington after a brief illness. He was 91 years old.
        An associate once described Cardinal O'Boyle as ''a man of simple tastes and complex humanity.'' He came to the nation's capital with a reputation as a liberal, dating to his years as one of the church's early social-worker priests. A champion of civil rights, he desegrated Washington's churches and parochial schools three years before the 1954 Supreme Court ruling that outlawed school segregation.
        But he alienated liberals in and out of the church as an orthodox hard-liner on matters of Catholic doctrine. This led him into a widely watched public dispute with some 50 of his own priests over a 1968 papal encyclical stressing the sinfulness of birth control. Suffered a Broken Hip
        Cardinal O'Boyle retired in 1973. An archdiocesan spokesman, Father Declan Murphy, said yesterday that the Cardinal continued to take an interest in causes close to his heart but had made a point of not interfering with the work of his successors, William Cardinal Baum, now the Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for Catholic Education at the Vatican, and, since 1980, Archbishop James A. Hickey.
        Father Murphy said Cardinal O'Boyle had suffered a broken hip in a fall at his official Washington residence two weeks ago and died of pneumonia that developed after surgery. He will be laid to rest in the crypt of St. Matthew's Cathedral, the first person to be buried there, Father Murphy said.
        Patrick Aloysius O'Boyle was born July 18, 1896, in Scranton, Pa., the son of Irish immigrant parents. His father, a steelworker, died when the boy was 10, and as the only surviving child young Patrick had to help support his mother with odd jobs.
        He graduated from St. Thomas College (now the University of Scranton) in 1917 and from St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers in 1921. Long Tenure in New York
        After the future Cardinal was ordained at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, he was sent to do charitable and social work, an assignment that left a strong and lasting impression on him.
        In the 1930's, he taught at the Fordham University School of Social Service and moved on to the influential positions of assistant director and, in 1946, director of the Catholic Charities of New York. Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York, asked Father O'Boyle to become a special consultant in in 1947.
        On Dec. 3 of that year, Pope Pius XII named him the first Archbishop of Washington, until then part of the Diocese of Baltimore. It was also a rare appointment in that the new Archbishop had not served as a Bishop. Hard Line on Birth Control
        Pope Paul VI elevated him to the rank of Cardinal in 1967, and he also served as the Chancellor of the Catholic University of America during his tenure in the nation's capital.
        A tough-minded Irishman, he became the public standard-bearer for those who accept the papal stance on birth control, particularly after Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical, Humanae Vitae.
        Cardinal O'Boyle was adamant in defending the ban, and when a group of priests issued a statement asserting the right of individuals to be governed by their conscience, he struck back with suspensions and other disciplinary measures against those who did not recant.
        He also personally read a pastoral letter urging lay support for his actions. The reading caused a number of parishioners to walk out of his church in protest. Liberal on Many Issues
        Yet to many, Cardinal O'Boyle's orthodoxy on matters of doctrine did not match his progressivism on liturgical reform, urban social work and immigration legislation.
        So it was the liberal who took the pulpit in 1972 to urge national support for a continuing boycott of iceberg lettuce. The Cardinal protested the living and working conditions of migrant farm workers as ''pitifully below standard'' and endorsed Cesar Chavez, the head of the United Farm Workers, as a dedicated labor leader.
        When he received his red hat in Rome, Cardinal O'Boyle said the honor was not so much for him personally but for the priests and devoted laity of his archdiocese as well as the clergy and laity of other faiths who ''have labored beside us in attacking the problems of racial and social injustice which are of common concern.''
        Father Murphy said Cardinal O'Boyle's body will be received at St. Matthew's Cathedral at 3 P.M. Thursday, followed by a mass for the dead at 7:30. A funeral mass will be held at the cathedral at noon Friday.
      