
       I. W. Abel, who came out of the blast-furnace steel mills of the Depression to help found the United Steelworkers of America and served as the union's third president for 12 years in the 1960's and 1970's, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Malvern, Ohio.
        I. W. Abel, who came out of the blast-furnace steel mills of the Depression to help found the United Steelworkers of America and served as the union's third president for 12 years in the 1960's and 1970's, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Malvern, Ohio.
        He would have been 79 years old today.
        Mr. Abel, who retired in 1977, lived for most of the past decade in Sun City, Ariz., but moved recently to Malvern, a few miles from Canton, where he first went to work as a mill hand in 1925 and later fired kilns for 16 cents an hour, 12 hours a day, 7 days a week.
        Mr. Abel, who was white-haired, stocky and grandfatherly and wore dark suits and gold-rim glasses, looked more like a contemplative church deacon than the rugged steelworker who began organizing the mills in Canton in 1936 and, in one year, led 42 wildcat walkouts. From those beginnings, he rose to become one of the nation's most influential labor leaders. Rise in Wages and Benefits
        As president of the union from 1965 to 1977, he added a half-million members, began coordinated bargaining with the leading steelmakers, raised wages and benefits sharply without a strike, won productivity agreements, began separate bargaining for aluminum and other metals industries and campaigned for Federal laws that now protect employee pensions.
        ''He was a visionary who recognized, decades before the notion became fashionable, that workers, employers and the public each have a stake in the others' well-being,'' Lynn Williams, the current president of the steelworkers union, said in a statement on Mr. Abel's death.
        Colleagues recalled Mr. Abel as a shy man in public, but this seemed to belie an affability that that made him enormously popular with the union's rank-and-file members. They remembered him as ''Abe,'' a man who often went to the mills and did not run off after making a speech; he stayed at the open hearths and talked and, more important, listened.
        At the bargaining table, Mr. Abel was known as dignified, rock-steady and calm, with a formidable command of issues and a canny understanding of the people with whom he was dealing. 'Sit Back and Wait for a Bite'
        ''Collective bargaining is pretty much of a crisis business,'' he once said. ''You have to have patience and you have to be tolerant. You have to be a fair fisherman. You have to sit back and wait for a bite.''
        Mr. Abel made labor history in 1973 when he signed the Experimental Negotiating Agreement with Big Steel. Under this agreement the union, with the concurrence of all but two of its 600 local union presidents, pledged not to strike during the 1974 contract talks, and both sides agreed to submit differences to arbitration if they went unresolved at the bargaining table.
        The need for what Mr. Abel called ''a better way'' had been accented in 1971, when steel buyers imported 18 million tons of foreign steel in anticipation of a strike. An agreement that year was reached without a strike, but 108,000 steelworkers were laid off while production fell and the stockpiles were depleted.
        The 1974 contract talks gave steelworkers a $2 hourly raise over three years and the right to strike over plant conditions, which had been barred previously. But all sides agreed that the major achievement of the no-strike talks was the breaking of the ''boom-bust'' cycle caused by stockpiling.
        A similar pact was used successfully again in 1977 to avoid peaks and valleys of production and buying, but the arrangement collapsed later when the steel industry went into recession. Sharp Drop in Membership
        The union, which had fewer than one million members when Mr. Abel became president, had 1.4 million members when he retired 10 years ago. But its membership rolls have since declined to 650,000, largely because of shutdowns and cutbacks at steel mills.
        Mr. Abel, who campaigned in Washington for laws to improve the health and safety in the workplace as well as to insure pension guarantees, was a member of the Kerner Commissioner, which investigated disorders in American cities in 1967. He also served as a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations.
        In an interview last year with The Associated Press, Mr. Abel said public attitudes about organized labor had changed for the worse - in part because people did not remember the years of struggle and sacrifice that marked the early era of labor.
        ''Some of it is fear,'' he said. ''Some of it is concern with what's happened, industry shutting down plants and laying off many people.
        ''Then you've got the younger element,'' he continued. ''They think we've always had good wages because employers believed in paying good wages. They think they get benefits like we have and holidays, vacations, medical insurance and all that because employers want to give them that.'' A Molder of Iron Castings
        Iorwith Wilbur Abel was born in Magnolia, Ohio, on Aug. 11, 1908, the son of John Franklin Abel, a blacksmith and clay worker of German ancestry, and Mary Ann Jones Abel, who came from a Welch coal-mining family. He attended local elementary schools, was graduated from Magnolia High School and briefly attended Canton Actual Business College.
        In 1925 he went to work for the American Sheet and Tin Mill Works in Canton and became a molder of iron castings. Later he worked for the Canton Malleable Iron Company, the Timken Roller Bearing Company and the Colonial Foundry in Canton.
        ''Back in those days you just moved around pretty much at will,'' he said a few years ago. ''There were times, depending on the work, when we'd make $12 or $14 a day, hourly scale about 75 cents.''
        Work became even less secure in the Depression, and Mr. Abel, unable to find a job, took work in a brickyard firing a kiln at 16 cents an hour. ''That miserable job helped straighten out my social thinking,'' he said, ''and pointed me in the direction I was to travel the rest of my life.'' That direction was unionism. Early Organizer of Steelworkers It was 1936, the year that 10 organizers for the steelworkers' union movement were killed in Chicago when the police opened fire on a Memorial Day rally. Mr. Abel, a foundryman at Timken, joined the Steelworkers Organizing Committee and helped to organize Local 1123, of which he was a dues-paying member until the end of his life.
        Philip Murray, the founder and president of the committee and its successor, the United Steelworkers of America, was Mr. Abel's mentor. In 1937 Mr. Murray named Mr. Abel to head the organizing committee staff and, in 1942, when the union was formally organized and Mr. Murray became its first president, Mr. Abel was named director of the union's Canton district.
        After Mr. Murray's death in 1952, Mr. Abel ran successfully for the post of secretary-treasurer of the international union on a ticket headed by David J. McDonald. For the next 12 years Mr. Abel served quietly as the union's second in command under the flamboyant Mr. McDonald; the union, meanwhile, went through a tumultuous period that included three major strikes.
        While Mr. McDonald's name was in the headlines, Mr. Abel spent much of his time visiting most of the union's locals throughout the United States and Canada, meeting the officers and men, listening to their grievances and acquiring a wide popularity.
        In 1965, after a bitterly contested campaign in which Mr. McDonald called Mr. Abel a union bookkeeper and he accused Mr. McDonald of ''tuxedo unionism'' and ''utter contempt'' for the rank and file, Mr. Abel won the union presidency by 10,000 votes. 'An Act of Last Resort'
        Under Mr. Abel's presidency the union's membership rose dramatically, a strike fund of more than $85 million was built and the no-strike agreement to end production and stockpiling swings was made.
        ''A strike is an important action and a prerogative for labor,'' Mr. Abel said at the time. ''But, like every other right, it's got to be exercised with good judgment. It's an act of last resort, pretty much like getting involved in a war.''
        In his later years in office Mr. Abel was the target of some internal criticism. Some members said that productivity agreements signed under his tenure had cost jobs. In 1974 he signed a consent decree stemming from lawsuits over racial and sex discrimination in steel mills; the decree altered seniority rules and that rankled some workers.
        One of Mr. Abel's prime critics was Edward Sadlowski, a union leader in Chicago and a contender for the presidency. But in 1977, when Mr. Abel retired, the presidency was won by Lloyd McBride in a closely contested race with Mr. Sadlowski. Mr. Abel had supported Mr. McBride.
        Mr. Abel's first wife, the former Bernice N. Joseph, whom he married in 1930, died in 1982. He is survived by his second wife, the former Martha L. Turvey; two daughters, Karen Jones of Fort Washington, Pa., and Linda Goldberg of Fairfax Station, Va., and five grandchildren.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete.
      