
       Ronald Busch, a leader in paperback-book publishing for 30 years, died during triple-bypass heart surgery Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Ronald Busch, a leader in paperback-book publishing for 30 years, died during triple-bypass heart surgery Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Born in Brooklyn on Sept. 25, 1928, Mr. Busch graduated from Michigan State University and then served with the Army in Korea. After earning a master's degree at New York University, he held a variety of jobs - including working five years in the garment industry - before entering book publishing.
        After he joined Bantam Books as a market research analyst in 1957, Mr. Busch's career blossomed. He was vice president of marketing and corporate development when he left in 1974 to become president and publisher of Ballantine Books. Four years later he became president of mass-market publishing for Simon & Schuster, in charge of Pocket Books, Poseidon Press, Washington Square Press and Simon & Schuster juvenile books.
        Early this year Mr. Busch, in partnership with the Kable News Company, formed another mass-market company, Tudor Communications. Its first book is scheduled for publication in December, and at least 30 others have been signed up, according to Tudor's editor in chief, Kate Duffey. Innovative Sales Approaches
        A self-described ''curmudgeon,'' Mr. Busch was a demanding boss. He was also imaginative and innovative, publishing the paperback version of John Irving's ''World According to Garp'' in six different covers, each intended to reflect the book's various elements. When he thought wholesale distributors were not doing enough to support Alice Walker's ''Color Purple,'' because its irregular shape did not fit easily into mass-market display racks, he criticized them in an advertisement in an industry trade journal. Both books became big paperback best sellers.
        ''Our job is to keep 5 million people, maybe 10 million, out of 220 million people, responsive to our product,'' Mr. Busch said, in response to the question of why publishers issued many books of which they were not necessarily proud. ''We're a very easy habit to give up. Reading is not like watching television, it's something you have to work at. And our job as publishers is to survive, so that in the end the printed word and the book will survive.''
        Mr. Busch was a director of the Association of American Publishers and a co-founder of the American Book Awards.
        He is survived by his wife, Shelley, of Manhattan; a son, Glenn Busch of San Diego, and two daughters, Nancy Busch of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Linda Disselkamp of Arlington, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held Sunday at 11:30 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      