
       Peter Schidlof, the violist of the much-honored Amadeus Quartet, died of a heart attack yesterday in Cumbria, England. He was 65 years old.
        Peter Schidlof, the violist of the much-honored Amadeus Quartet, died of a heart attack yesterday in Cumbria, England. He was 65 years old.
        The Amadeus, which has been playing together for 39 years, has no plans for replacing Mr. Schidlof, according to the ensemble's North American representative, Mariedi Anders.
        However, the quartet's cellist, Martin Lovett, told the Reuters news agency yesterday that the quartet would have to disband. ''There is no repertoire for two violins and a cello,'' he said.
        Mr. Schidlof, whose original first name was Hans, was born in Unter Olbendorf, Austria, in 1922. He attended a Roman Catholic boarding school, though he was a Jew, and studied violin with a local blacksmith.
        In 1938, he fled the Nazis, leaving Austria for England. He attended the Blondell School of Music in Devon, but like many refugees from his country, Mr. Schidlof was placed in an internment camp when World War II began. There, at Prees Heath in Shropshire, he met another teen-age Austrian violinist, Norbert Brainin. When he was moved to a second camp, on the Isle of Man, Mr. Schidlof made friends with yet another young Austrian violinist, Siegmund Nissel. Upon their release, which was facilitated by the assistance of the pianist Myra Hess and the composer Ralph Vaughan Williams, the three musicians began to study with Max Rostal, a pupil of Carl Flesch. Britten Wrote for Group
        In 1946, Mr. Schidlof met Mr. Lovett, a British-born cellist, and introduced him to Mr. Nissel and Mr. Brainin. The foursome began rehearsing together the next year and gave their London debut, as the Amadeus Quartet, on Jan. 10, 1948.
        The string ensemble, one of the leading exponents of the mainstream classical repertory, made its last New York performance at Carnegie Hall in March.
        Benjamin Britten wrote his third quartet for the group, which has produced roughly 200 recordings; among its records are the complete Beethoven, Mozart and Brahms quartets.
        Mr. Schidlof is survived by his wife, Margit, and a daughter, Annemarie, both of London.
      