
       Joseph P. Lash, a newspaperman-turned-historian whose lifelong friendship with Eleanor Roosevelt became the basis of an acclaimed biography, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where he was undergoing treatment for a heart ailment. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Joseph P. Lash, a newspaperman-turned-historian whose lifelong friendship with Eleanor Roosevelt became the basis of an acclaimed biography, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where he was undergoing treatment for a heart ailment. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In his 30-year career as a biographer, Mr. Lash wrote full-length studies on such figures as Dag Hammarskjold and Helen Keller. But it was ''Eleanor and Franklin,'' the first installment in his two-volume biography of Mrs. Roosevelt, that won him the most enduring fame.
        The 1971 book, which won the Pulitzer Prize, drew heavily on Mrs. Roosevelt's papers, to which Mr. Lash had been given access by the Roosevelt family. But while the work had the imprimatur of an authorized biography, ''there is nothing of an 'official' label on any of its pages,'' the Pulitzer jurors noted. ''It is a sharp, vivid and yet kindly recreation of the lives of a famous couple, shedding new insights on their sometimes inspired, sometimes deeply troubled relationship.''
        The biography's second volume, ''Eleanor: The Years Alone,'' published a year later, focused on Mrs. Roosevelt's last 17 years after the death of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1945. An Eye for Anecdotes
        The historian John P. Roche remarked that, coming so soon after ''Eleanor and Franklin,'' there was something unavoidably anticlimactic about the second book. It lacked, he said, ''the contrapuntal tension between those two singular human beings.''
        But as Dr. Roche and other reviewers observed, ''The Years Alone'' combined the same meticulous scholarship and an eye for the telling anecdote that made ''Eleanor and Franklin'' a best-seller - and even the basis of a nine-hour television adaptation by ABC.
        Mr. Lash's 23-year friendship with Mrs. Roosevelt began on a train in 1939, when he was 29 years old, and lasted until her death in 1962.
        Mrs. Roosevelt had long had an abiding interest in politically idealistic young people, and Mr. Lash, then a prominent radical leader, was on his way to Washington, where he had been summoned to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee to answer questions about Communist influence in student organizations. 'A Full-Time Revolutionary'
        Caught up in the political ferment of the 1930's, Mr. Lash recalled that he then considered himself ''a full-time revolutionary,'' dedicated to fighting Fascism and achieving the goals of international Socialism.
        A 1931 graduate of City College who earned a master's degree in philosophy and literature at Columbia, Mr. Lash became an officer of the Student League for International Democracy, a Socialist youth organization. From 1936 to 1939, he was executive secretary of the American Student Union, a coalition of radical youth groups.
        The Hitler-Stalin pact of 1939, Mr. Lash said, brought a crushing end to his youthful idealism, and to his growing affinity for the Communist Party.
        Three months after the pact, Mrs. Roosevelt boarded the same train at Pennsylvania Station and, as it sped toward the capital, she met with Mr. Lash and his colleagues and counseled them to be cool and responsive when they appeared before the committee. Support From the First Lady
        The next day, Mrs. Roosevelt electrified the Washington press corps by appearing in the hearing room as a gesture of moral support to the witnesses.
        Later, she told one of Mr. Lash's colleagues that she could not understand why he had seemed ''so uncertain in his replies'' to the committee's questions. Mr. Lash, she was told, was still in great emotional turmoil about the Nazi-Soviet pact. The discovery struck a sympathetic chord, because Mrs. Roosevelt, like many American liberals, had also become deeply suspicious about Soviet intentions.
        After the hearing, the First Lady invited Mr. Lash and five others to the White House, where they dined with her, the President and Helen Gahagan Douglas and her husband, the actor Melvyn Douglas.
        Mrs. Roosevelt was so impressed with Mr. Lash, he recalled, that she once even brought the President by to hear his views about American youth. In that same year, Mrs. Roosevelt also invited Mr. Lash to spend some time by himself at the Roosevelt family estate in Hyde Park, N.Y. Rumors of Romance
        In the early 1940's, the extraordinary relationship between Mr. Lash and Mrs. Roosevelt led to rumors that the two were romantically involved. Mr. Lash, in a 1984 interview with Publishers Weekly, said he believed American counterintelligence agents wanted to prove they were lovers as a way of showing that Mrs. Roosevelt was in the thrall of young revolutionaries.
        ''There wasn't any such relationship,'' Mr. Lash said. ''It's an absurd accusation.''
        In the same interview, Mr. Lash recalled that he was ''flabbergasted'' at the revelations in 1978 that Mrs. Roosevelt had conducted a passionate, long-term correspondence with Lorena Hickok, an Associated Press reporter who had been assigned to cover her. The letters, discussed in a book by Doris Faber, suggested that the two had had a lesbian relationship.
        The First Lady's estrangement from her husband made it ''understandable that Mrs. Roosevelt would look for companionship elsewhere,'' Mr. Lash said. But the suggestion that the letters indicated there had been a physical relationship ''just doesn't add up.''
        Mr. Lash was general secretary of a progressive student-aid group called the International Student Service from 1940 to 1942. He was later a founder, with Mrs. Roosevelt and others, of Americans for Democratic Action and served as an officer for two years. He was also active in liberal Democratic politics.
        Mr. Lash was drafted during World War II after Mrs. Roosevelt tried unsuccessfully to help him win a commission in the Naval Intelligence Service. He served as a sergeant and later second lieutenant in the United States Army Air Force.
        In 1950, after two years working as an assistant to the Roosevelts' son Elliott, Mr. Lash joined The New York Post, then known for its liberal editorial positions. He worked for a time as a general assignment reporter and soon become its United Nations correspondent, a position he held for 10 years. In 1960, he was appointed assistant editor of the editorial page, producing columns as well as editorials.
        He left The Post in 1966 to begin the Roosevelt biography, a five-year effort that Mr. Lash said had begun with a telephone call from Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr., who was serving as his mother's literary executor. Mr. Roosevelt wanted to know if Mr. Lash would be interested in looking over his mother's papers. ''I told him there was nothing I'd rather do,'' Mr. Lash recalled.
        Mr. Lash said he and Mrs. Roosevelt never discussed the possibility of his writing a biography of her. ''I had the good sense to know I had the good luck to be with someone who was making her mark in history,'' he told The Associated Press in 1972. ''Every time I left her I'd go home and write notes and impressions. But I'm sure she had no idea I'd make a book of it.''
        Mr. Lash was born in New York City to Russian immigrant parents on Dec. 2, 1909. He was the eldest of three sons and two daughters.
        Besides the Roosevelt biography, Mr. Lash's books include ''War Our Heritage,'' with James A. Wechsler (1936); ''Dag Hammarskjold: Custodian of the Brushfire Peace'' (1961); ''Eleanor Roosevelt: A Friend's Memoir (1964); ''From the Diaries of Felix Frankfurter'' (1975); ''Roosevelt and Churchill: The Partnership That Saved the West'' (1976); ''Helen and Teacher'' (1980), two volumes based on Mrs. Roosevelt's papers, ''Love, Eleanor'' and ''A World of Love.'' He was also the editor of two volumes of President Roosevelt's personal letters.
        Mr. Lash's last book, ''Dreamers and Dealers,'' about the young intellectuals who helped shape the New Deal, is to be published shortly.
        Mr. Lash is survived by his second wife, the former Trude Wenzel, whom he met in Washington in 1939 through Mrs. Roosevelt; his son Jonathan, and a sister, Anne Delibert, all of Manhattan.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete yesterday.
        JOSEPH P. LASH IS DEAD  Correction:  August 30, 1987, Sunday, Late City Final Edition
      