
       Bayard Rustin, the pacifist and civil rights activist who was a chief organizer of the 1963 March on Washington and the 1964 New York school boycott, died early yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and was a longtime resident of the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
        Bayard Rustin, the pacifist and civil rights activist who was a chief organizer of the 1963 March on Washington and the 1964 New York school boycott, died early yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and was a longtime resident of the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
        A spokesman for the hospital, Jean Brett, said Mr. Rustin was admitted to its emergency room Friday morning ''complaining of abdominal pain'' and later that morning he ''underwent surgery for a perforated appendix and peritonitis.'' At 11:20 P.M. Sunday, the statement added, ''Mr. Rustin went into cardiac arrest and died at 12:02 A.M.'' yesterday.
        Mr. Rustin's administrative assistant and adopted son, Walter Naegle, said, ''He seemed to be bouncing back and doing O.K., but he had a history of heart problems, and it appears that the strain of the operation caused the cardiac arrest.''
        At his death, Mr. Rustin was co-chairman, with Leon Lynch, of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, an educational, civil rights and labor organization based in New York, and president of its education fund.
        Commenting on Mr. Rustin's death, Roy Innis, national chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality, said: ''Bayard Rustin was a planner, a coordinator, a thinker. He influenced all of the young leaders in the civil rights movement, even those of us who did not agree with him ideologically.''
        Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, said: ''We first met on the march for jobs and freedom. It was an event that changed the nation. From that moment forward, the great civil rights bills of 1964 and 1965 were not only possible but near accomplished. He taught us love and gave us peace.''
        Mr. Rustin's career ranged from such activities as having organized the first Freedom Ride, which was then called a Journey of Reconciliation, in 1947, to a role in the Free India movement before the subcontinent gained its independence from Britain, to involvement in antinuclear demonstrations in England and North Africa and to serving as an aide to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Mr. Rustin once described his militant activity this way: ''I believe in social dislocation and creative trouble.''
        ''Mr. March'' was what A. Philip Randolph, the labor leader, called Mr. Rustin in tribute to his tireless efforts in planning and arranging the 1963 demonstration, called the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, in which 200,000 people took part.
        That success was repeated when Mr. Rustin directed the one-day school boycott, on Feb. 3, 1964, which was called by groups that were dissatisfied with the New York City Board of Education's integration efforts. All told, 464,000 pupils stayed away from school, 360,000 more than the daily average.
        Mr. Rustin was a complex, intense man with a flair for advocacy and a passion for detail. He built an international reputation as an organizer because of his skill at planning every aspect of protest demonstrations and his imaginativeness as a tactician. Analyst Without Power Base
        He also won admirers as a political philosopher and analyst. But he never had a big power base among blacks, and late in life he was criticized by some who felt he was more an advocate of Jewish, labor and white liberal causes than of black causes.
        Mr. Rustin's effectiveness as an advocate and organizer was enhanced by his striking appearance: He was a 200-pound six-footer with high cheekbones, intense eyes and, late in life, a shock of white hair. A Pennsylvanian who attended City College of New York and lived for many years on West 28th Street, he spoke in a clipped manner that was, he once said, the remnant of a British accent acquired as a young man on a sojourn at the London School of Economics.
        Looking back at his career, Mr. Rustin, a Quaker, once wrote: ''The principal factors which influenced my life are 1) nonviolent tactics; 2) constitutional means; 3) democratic procedures; 4) respect for human personality; 5) a belief that all people are one.''
        Mr. Rustin had repeated run-ins with the law over the years. As an ardent pacifist, he spent 28 months in prison for refusing military service in World War II. He spent weeks on a North Carolina road gang after being convicted of violating bus seating laws in a civil rights demonstration in 1947. And, as the years passed, he was imprisoned or arrested more than 20 times, in cases including numerous charges in connection with his civil rights and pacifist activity. Evolution of Philosophy
        Early in life he was a radical: he belonged to the Young Communist League for several years, then embraced Socialism and for decades was associated with Mr. Randolph, who was a founder of the modern-day civil rights movement.
        As time passed, Mr. Rustin became relatively more conservative, stressing what he saw as the prime importance of working for black progress through the trade union movement.
        ''I know that I have changed, but the changes have been in response to the objective conditions,'' he told an interviewer in 1970.
        He advocated a coalition approach toward achieving ''progressive change,'' drawing on support from the Jewish community and from liberal and leftist political circles in addition to the unions; and he served for many years as the president of the A. Philip Randolph Institute.
        In his later years, Mr. Rustin's support of the unions and Israel, and his role as a prime interpreter of the black movement to the unions, to liberals and to various religious groups, won him both widespread praise and strong criticism; some blacks considered him to be an Uncle Tom, subservient to whites. Support and Criticism
        In 1978 the American Jewish Congress gave Mr. Rustin one of its annual Stephen Wise awards for ''illustrious leadership in the cause of racial justice, world peace and human understanding.''
        But Mr. Rustin was also criticized by blacks who were more militant than he on a variety of issues.
        ''Bayard has no credibility in the black community,'' James Farmer, the veteran official of the Congress of Racial Equality, once contended. ''Bayard's commitment is to labor, not to the black man. His belief that the black man's problem is economic, not racist, runs counter to black community thinking.''
        Mr. Rustin's insistence on nonviolence was also controversial. He believed in it so strongly that during rioting in Harlem in 1964 he went into the streets and tried to persuade the participants to stop. But bottles were thrown at him, and his efforts were criticized by some blacks.
        Mr. Rustin's advocacy of black-Jewish harmony and of support for Israel, a major theme of his later years, also became controversial among blacks.
        In the late 1960's, commenting on what was widely regarded as a rise in anti-Semitism among blacks, he urged restraint as well as good will. Advocate of Black-Jewish Ties
        ''I request the understanding, the cooperation and the aid of Jews,'' he said in addressing a conference of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. ''I do so knowing that there is Negro anti-Semitism and knowing how Jews must feel when they hear some Negro extremists talk.'' He urged his audience to ''remember that the issue never can be simply a problem of Jew and gentile or black and white. The problem is man's inhumanity to man.''
        His enthusiasm for Israel was strong. ''Since Israel is a democratic state surrounded by essentially undemocratic states which have sworn her destruction,'' he once declared, ''those interested in democracy everywhere must support Israel's existence.''
        Bayard Rustin acquired his passion for civil rights during his boyhood in West Chester, Pa., where he was born March 17, 1912, the illegitimate son of an immigrant from the West Indies. He was reared by a grandfather who worked as a caterer. Early Fight on Discrimination
        The young Mr. Rustin first encountered discrimination when, while traveling as a member of the West Chester High School football team, he was refused service at a restaurant in Media, Pa.
        ''I sat there quite a long time,'' he recalled years later, ''and was eventually thrown out bodily. From that point on, I had the conviction that I would not accept segregation.''
        After a succession of odd jobs and much travel, he had five years of university study in this country, successively at Wilberforce University in Ohio; Cheyney State Teachers College in Pennsylvania and at City College. He did not take a degree.
        In the late 1930's Mr. Rustin joined the Young Communist League because, he recalled once in an interview, ''They seemed the only people who had civil rights at heart.'' But he resigned in 1941, he said, because the organization had displayed partiality toward war and discrimination.
        In 1941 Mr. Rustin worked for the Congress of Racial Equality as a field secretary. In the same year he denounced Mr. Randolph for having called off a threatened civil rights protest march on Washington in which at least 100,000 blacks were expected to participate. Model for Large-Scale Protests
        Mr. Rustin had worked at organizing young people for the demonstration, which was to become a model for large-scale protests. But the demonstration was canceled after President Roosevelt, bowing to pressure from Mr. Randolph and other black leaders, took steps that led to the opening of thousands of military jobs to blacks.
        Mr. Rustin, who was then more militant and radical than Mr. Randolph, also criticized Mr. Randolph later in the 1940's but subsequently became one of the union leader's most faithful followers and a mainstay of his old age.
        In 1941 Mr. Rustin also began a dozen years of service as race relations director of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, a nondenominational group devoted to seeking solutions to world problems nonviolently.
        From 1953 to 1955 he was executive director of the War Resisters League, a pacifist organization, and from 1955 to 1960 he worked for Dr. King, taking time out to organize several large demonstrations. In 1960 he arranged civil rights demonstrations outside the Democratic and Republican convention halls.
        Mr. Rustin began planning the 1963 march in December 1962, while on loan from the War Resisters League.
        In his later years, Mr. Rustin continued to be active and outspoken on a wide variety of fronts. He was chairman of Social Democrats U.S.A., a descendant of the Socialist Party of Eugene V. Debs and Norman Thomas; chairman of the executive committee of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights; and the first black trustee of the University of Notre Dame. Stand on Homosexuality
        In an interview published in The Village Voice on June 30, Mr. Rustin was quoted as saying he was homosexual. Asked in the interview how this and his 1953 arrest and subsequent sentence of 60 days in Pasadena, Calif., on a morals charge had affected his civil rights work, he said that ''there was considerable prejudice amongst a number of people I worked with,'' although they would not admit it.
        He added, ''The fact of the matter is, it was already known, it was nothing to hide. You can't hurt the movement unless you have something to reveal.'' He contended that the arrest was the result of entrapment which, he suggested, was for political reasons. Mr. Rustin was unmarried.  He is survived by an uncle, Earl Rustin, of West Chester, Pa.; an aunt, Anna Luff of Queens; three half-sisters, Ruth John of West Chester, Pa.; Elizabeth Munroe; and Adelaide Thomas of Coatesville, Pa., and his adopted son, Mr. Naegle, of Manhattan, who was his administrative assistant at the Institute for the last three years.
        A small private funeral service is planned. A memorial service is to be held later in Manhattan; the time and place are to be announced.
      