
       Michael Lekakis, an artist whose wood sculptures combined fluid and geometric forms and whose work in recent years had begun to attract increasing critical recognition, died yesterday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan, of complications following a series of recent strokes. He was 80 years old.
        Michael Lekakis, an artist whose wood sculptures combined fluid and geometric forms and whose work in recent years had begun to attract increasing critical recognition, died yesterday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan, of complications following a series of recent strokes. He was 80 years old.
        Although Mr. Lekakis made ink drawings and occasional sculptures in bronze, he was best known for his wood sculptures, which he began to make in great quantity and variety in the middle 1940's. Some were abstract expressionist in form - thin, intertwining sculptures suggesting, say, a Jackson Pollock swirl of paint - while others were more architectural in appearance, resembling crystalline structures.
        His career and reputation grew slowly and steadily; in recent years his work was increasingly shown and critically recognized as an important body of postwar abstract sculpture. Influenced by Flowers
        In 1984, his sculptures appeared in ''The Third Dimension: Sculpture of the New York School,'' at the Whitney Museum of American Art. He had a retrospective exhibition at the Kouros Gallery in Manhattan last March. In a review of that show in The New York Times, Roberta Smith wrote, ''In his best work, Mr. Lekakis combines the sensitivity of a virtuoso carver with the intelligence of a modern engineer,'' adding that his ''work forms a link between early 20th-century sculpture and the sculptural renaissance of the 60's.''
        Mr. Lekakis was born and raised in New York City, the son of a Greek flower dealer; later in life, he often said his sense of form was largely shaped by his early exposure to flowers and flower arranging.
        His first one-man show was at the Artists Gallery in New York in 1941, and later, his work was frequently shown at the Whitney. It was also collected by many leading art museums, including the Whitney, the Guggenheim Museum, the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Mr. Lekakis is survived by a brother, Herbert Lecakes, of Fort Myers, Fla., and two sisters, Catherine Hios, of Manhattan, and Despina Millio, of Southampton, L.I.
      