
       Dick Young, the sports columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
        Dick Young, the sports columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
        Mr. Young's daughter, Donna DeMercurio, said he underwent intestinal surgery at St. John's Hospital in June. He was transferred to Montefiore for a pacemaker, which she said he did not receive until last week because of complications.
        Mr. Young joined The Post in 1982 after 45 years at The Daily News, where he started as an $18-a-week messenger. He broke into sports five years later. ''This,'' he said, ''is one of the few businesses where you can laugh while you work.''
        With pun and pencil, he made his readers laugh, too. In 1956 and 1957, when rumors were flying that the Dodgers were moving to Los Angeles, the team played some of its games in Jersey City. After one such game, he filed a story that began, ''Inching their way westward . . .''
        In recent years he had concentrated on baseball and boxing, writing occasionally about pro football and almost never about other sports. He went to the Kentucky Derby once, and that was that. He went to the United States Open in 1984, for one day.
        Mr. Young was great defender of sportswriters against the intrusions of television - when camera crews barged into the clubhouse, he brawled with the technicians.
        And once, he was thrown out. Last year, Larry Holmes ejected him from a workout in Las Vegas. ''Escort Dick Young out of here,'' the former heavyweight champion shouted before he challenged Michael Spinks for the International Boxing Federation heavyweight title. ''I don't like what you say about me.''
        ''You've got a right to say things and I don't?'' Mr. Young replied.
        Lately he had attacked drug use among athletes. When Dwight Gooden returned to the Mets after undergoing treatment for drug abuse, he wrote a column with the headline ''Stand Up and Boo.''
        Mr. Young, who signed a four-year contract with The News in 1980, said he left for The Post because The News could not guarantee his $131,000 annual salary over the last two years of the contract. At the time, The News was up for sale. Its $1.5 million breach-of-contract suit against him was subsequently dismissed.
        In February, Mr. Young received the James J. Walker Award from the Boxing Writers Association of America for long and meritorious service to boxing.
        He was a past president of the Baseball Writers Association of America and was elected to the writers' wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1978.
        Besides Ms. DeMercurio, he is survived by his wife, Josephine; six daughters, Margaret Murphy, of Grandville, N.Y.; Jo Ann Geary, of Manhattan; Laurie Santos, of Palm Harbor, Fla.; Jennifer Coticchio, of Largo, Fla.; Kathleen, of Danbury, Conn., and Veronica, of Manhattan; a son, Ricky, of High Mount, N.Y.; his mother, Irma Lang, and stepfather, George Lang, both of Grandville, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
      