
       Arnaldo Dante Momigliano, an Italian historian and internationally renowned professor of classics, who received a MacArthur Foundation fellowship last spring, died Tuesday at Central Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 78 years old.
        Arnaldo Dante Momigliano, an Italian historian and internationally renowned professor of classics, who received a MacArthur Foundation fellowship last spring, died Tuesday at Central Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 78 years old.
        Of his writings on the classics, The Times Literary Supplement in London declared a few years ago, ''No one else in the world today has a comparable range of knowledge.''
        Professor Momigliano started his academic career teaching Greek, Roman and Jewish history at the Universities of Rome and Turin from 1932 to 1939. After the imposition of anti-Semitic laws by the Italian Fascist Government, in 1939 he went into exile in Britain.
        For the last 12 years, Mr. Momigliano was Alexander White Visiting Professor at the University of Chicago, where he taught classics and history during the autumn and spring terms. He was a member of the Committee on Social Thought at the university.
        Dr. Kenneth Hope, director of the MacArthur Foundation, which had awarded Professor Momigliano $375,000 for a five-year period, voiced sorrow yesterday about his death. ''The award was given for his future studies,'' Dr. Hope said. ''He had a lot more writing to complete.'' Under the program, Professor Momigliano received an initial installment of $15,000, but MacArthur payments stop after a fellow's death. Author and Professor
        During the wartime years, Professor Momigliano did research at Oxford University. Between 1947 and 1951, he served as a reader at the University of Bristol. Then, for the next 23 years, he was professor of ancient history at University College in London.
        Professor Momigliano also taught at the Universities of Pisa and Turin, the University of California, the University of Michigan, Harvard, Bryn Mawr, Hebrew Union College and Oxford and Cambridge Universities.
        Among his books were ''The Conflict Between Paganism and Christianity in the Fourth Century,'' ''The Development of Greek Biography,'' ''Alien Wisdom: The Limits of Hellenization'' and ''New Paths of Classicism in the 19th Century.''
        According to the University of Chicago, Professor Momigliano is survived by his wife, Gemma Segre, and a daughter, Anna Laura Lepschy, both of London.
      