
       Harry Holtzman, an abstract painter, teacher and authority on the work of the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian, died of pancreatic cancer Friday at his home in Lyme, Conn. He was 75 years old, and was co-editor of ''The New Art - The New Life,'' a book of Mondrian's collected writings published this year.
        Harry Holtzman, an abstract painter, teacher and authority on the work of the Dutch artist Piet Mondrian, died of pancreatic cancer Friday at his home in Lyme, Conn. He was 75 years old, and was co-editor of ''The New Art - The New Life,'' a book of Mondrian's collected writings published this year.
        Involved with abstract painting since 1930, Mr. Holtzman found a kindred spirit in Mondrian, whose hard-edged rectilinear forms in primary colors he first saw here in 1933. At the age of 22, he made a pilgrimage to Paris to meet the older artist, and established a lasting friendship with him. In 1940, shortly after the outbreak of World War II, he sponsored Mondrian's immigration to this country and contributed to his support. At Mondrian's death in 1944 he became the sole heir to his estate. Helped Advance Modernism
        In the mid-1930's, concerned over the lack of opportunity for abstract artists to discuss and exhibit their work, Mr. Holtzman helped to found the American Abstract Artists, an influential organization whose shows and publications espoused the principles of European modernism. An exhibition devoted to the group is now appearing at the Emerson Gallery of Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., with a catalogue essay by Mr. Holtzman.
        Born June 8, 1912, in New York City, Mr. Holtzman studied at the Art Students League, where he was a studio assistant to Hans Hofmann, a famous painter and teacher. When Hofmann established his own school, Mr. Holtzman taught there from 1932 to 1935. In the mid-30's, he also worked as a supervisor of abstract artists in the mural division of the Federal Art Project. ''My chief effort was to see that everyone had supplies and also to encourage them not to finish their work too quickly,'' Mr. Holtzman wrote in the Emerson Gallery catalogue.
        From 1950 to 1975, Mr. Holtzman was an associate professor of art at Brooklyn College. In the early 1960's, on an extensive trip through southern India, he discovered a number of villages where powerful primitive sculptures of local gods were being produced. He photographed the sites and then arranged for a number of exhibitions in the Uniteds States. He also lectured extensively throughout the world on the work and theories of Mondrian.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth McManus Holtzman; a son, Jason, and two daughters, Jackie and Madalena, all of Lyme. Also surviving are a brother, Jack, and a sister, Henrietta Gardner, both of New York City. A private funeral service will be held today in Essex, Conn.
      