
       George Mikes, a Hungarian-born writer who wrote gentle satires on the foibles of nations, typified by ''How to Be an Alien,'' has died at the age of 75, his family said today.
        George Mikes, a Hungarian-born writer who wrote gentle satires on the foibles of nations, typified by ''How to Be an Alien,'' has died at the age of 75, his family said today.
        Mr. Mikes, who had leukemia, died at St. Stephen's Hospital on Sunday, relatives said.
        Born Feb. 12, 1912, in the small town of Siklos, Mr. Mikes became a journalist despite the objections of his father, who wanted him to be a doctor. In 1938 he was sent to London on a two-week assignment to cover the buildup to World War II, and he never left.
        During the war, he was a freelance journalist for the British Broadcasting Corporation's Hungarian-language service and perfected his English to create his own brand of amiable, deadpan satire.
        In 1946 Mr. Mikes sent his boyhood friend and fellow emigre in London, Andre Deutsch, a publisher, the manuscript on ''How to Be an Alien: A Handbook for Beginnners and More Advanced Pupils.'' Its humorous view of the English way of life made it an immediate success in the grimness of postwar Britain.
        Some chapters were just one-liners, such as the one on sex: ''Continental people have sex life; the English have hot-water bottles.''
        ''I thought I was brave and outspoken and expected either to go unnoticed or to face a storm. But no storm came. I expected the English to be up in arms against me but they patted me on the back,'' he wrote in a tongue-in-cheek preface to a collection of his works.
        Laced with cartoons by his longtime collaborator Nicolas Bentley, ''Alien'' went through 24 printings in 12 years.
        Meanwhile, Mr. Mikes trained his sights on other targets, such as Israel (''Milk and Honey''), France (''Little Cabbages''), Japan (''The Land of the Rising Yen''), Germany (''Uber Alles''), ''Italy for Beginners'' and ''How to Unite Nations.''
        He also broadened his canvas to tackle such universal questions as ''How to Be Affluent,'' ''How to Be Poor'' and, last year, ''How to Be God.''
        Mr. Mikes's more than 40 books included serious subjects, such as a study of Hungary's 1956 uprising against Soviet domination.
        In 1983 he published a memoir of his friendship with the late philosopher and historian Arthur Koestler.
        Mr. Mikes is survived by a son and a daughter.
      