
       Morton Feldman, one of the century's most important experimental composers and a truer minimalist than many so labeled, died of pancreatic cancer early yesterday at Buffalo General Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        Morton Feldman, one of the century's most important experimental composers and a truer minimalist than many so labeled, died of pancreatic cancer early yesterday at Buffalo General Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        He had taught at the State University of New York at Buffalo, where he held the Edgard Varese Chair, since 1972.
        An early associate of John Cage, Mr. Feldman derived inspiration as freely from painters - above all, Philip Guston - as from other musicians, past or present. Mr. Feldman composed pieces that were predominantly quiet, spare, meditative and, in recent years, often of extreme length: his String Quartet No. 2 (1983), first performed in Toronto by the Kronos Quartet, lasted four and a half hours.
        Yet while his music bored and offended many, traditionalists and conventional modernists alike, it enraptured others. Mr. Feldman never courted an audience. But for some, he was a musical poet whose music reached out quietly but urgently to like-minded souls.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1926, Mr. Feldman played piano as a child and began composing when he was 8 years old. He studied composition with Wallingford Riegger and Stefan Wolpe, and was influenced by Varese and Webern. But it was his meeting with Mr. Cage in 1950 that proved decisive. ''The main influence from Cage was a green light,'' Mr. Feldman recalled in 1985. ''It was permission, the freedom to do what I wanted.''
        Mr. Feldman was a member of the so-called New York school of composers that clustered around Mr. Cage and also took their inspiration from the New York school of Abstract Expressionist painters. Others in the group were Earle Brown, David Tudor and Christian Wolff. Inspiration From Painters
        A reporter visiting his lower Manhattan appartment in 1964 found it stocked with paintings and drawings by Guston, Franz Kline, Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns and Jackson Pollock. At the time, Mr. Feldman said his friend Mr. Guston had liberated him as a composer by encouraging him to treat sound as a malleable medium, like paint.
        ''Phil Guston took away the initial morality of the medium,'' Mr. Feldman said in his characteristically intense but opaque way. ''I learned one had to make one's own morality. The material itself wasn't an intrinsic moral, like the sonata form. Guston made the 'I' the material. He showed me where the responsibility was - not to any 'style,' to any historical vested interest of means.''
        The Abstract Expressionists reveled in the instinctual freedom of the individual artist, absolving Mr. Feldman from any indebtedness to musical tradition. Similarly under their influence, he sought to create ''washes'' of sound, experimenting through the 50's and 60's with varying forms of graphic notation and options for performer choice.
        Through all this period, however, his music retained its basic individuality, its commitment to a hushed, rapt esthetic. As such it suited his work in collaboration with or in homage to artists he admired - settings of poetry and plays by Frank O'Hara and Samuel Beckett and pieces dedicated to Mr. Cage, Mr. Wolff, Mr. Kline, Mr. Guston and to composers and performers to whom he was personally close, such as Bunita Marcus and Karen Phillips. A Minimalist Aural World
        In recent years, Mr. Feldman, who welcomed Mr. Cage's description of him as a ''poetic extremist,'' felt constrained by the conventional score lengths expected of contemporary composers. In pieces like the Second Quartet and the 90-minute ''Three Voices,'' for a live singer and two recorded sound images of herself (1982), he created a truly minimalist aural world, without the kinetic impulse of better-known minimalists like Steve Reich and Philip Glass but truer even than they to the minimalist precepts of understated, non-rhetorical emotion and slowly developing repetition.
        ''Up to one hour, you think about form, but after an hour and a half, it's scale,'' he said in 1985. ''Form is easy - just the division of things into parts. But scale is another matter. You have to have control of the piece - it requires a heightened kind of concentration. Before, my pieces were like objects; now, they're like evolving things.''
        Despite the ethereal quality of his music, Mr. Feldman in person was an almost Rabelaisian figure, with a pungent Brooklyn accent and an undisguised appetite for sensuous pleasure. In his later years, even with continued interest in his work from American champions and, especially, Europeans, he felt cut off from the musical world.
        ''There used to be an audience, without any media hype,'' he lamented two years ago. ''I was walking along Eighth Street once in the late 60's, and one of those flower girls came over and said, 'You are our Schubert.' That sense of time and place is lost now. My own students think I'm a cross between Wittgenstein and Zero Mostel.''
        Mr. Feldman is survived by his wife, Barbara, and a brother, Harold, of Great Neck, L.I.
        The funeral will take place Tuesday at 1:30 P.M. at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Queens. A memorial service is planned for Wednesday at 7:45 P.M. at St. Mark's Church in the Bowery, 131 East 10th Street.
      