
       Harold Baer, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, at his Manhattan apartment. He was 82 years old.
        Harold Baer, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, at his Manhattan apartment. He was 82 years old.
        Justice Baer retired in 1977 after 22 years on the bench. His decisions included a ruling during the New York City fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's and settling a dispute between the Jets and the Mets over the use of Shea Stadium.
        During the city's fiscal crisis, in 1975, he upheld a state legislative moratorium on the city's payment of principal on its short-term notes. The ruling was later overturned on appeal, but after his retirement, the judge contended his ruling had given the city enough time to avoid bankruptcy.
        In May 1977, Justice Baer ruled that the Mets had to allow the Jets to use Shea Stadium before the baseball season ended, contrary to the Mets' wishes. The Jets were threatening to move out of Shea at the time to Giants Stadium in New Jersey. Eventually they did move to Giants Stadium, but it was not until after their 1983 season. Rebutted Criticism
        During the early 1970's, as the chairman of the public information committee of the Supreme Court's Board of Justice, Justice Baer was a spokesman for the Supreme Court when it was criticized by Mayor John V. Lindsay and Maurice H. Nadjari, the anti-corruption prosecutor, for slow-moving court calendars.
        To Mr. Lindsay's charge that the court was lagging behind other courts, for example, Justice Baer said trial delays were caused by a lack of resources.
        Born in Manhattan, he lived in the borough all his life, graduating from De Witt Clinton High School and New York University, where he received his law degree in 1927. After a number of years in law practice he was the law secretary to City Comptroller Joseph D. McGoldrick from 1942 to 1945. He was a lecturer on legal subjects at Baruch College from 1943 to 1951.
        He was long involved in Liberal Party affairs and in the early 1950's was chairman of the party's municipal affairs committee.
        He was elected to the City Court (afterward renamed the Civil Court) in 1954 and re-elected in 1964, spending five of those years as an acting Supreme Court Justice. In 1968 he was elected to the Supreme Court.
        He is survived by his wife, Edna; a son, Harold Jr., a Supreme Court Justice, and two grandchildren.
      