
       Viktor P. Nekrasov, who won the Stalin Prize for literature in 1947 but emigrated to the west in 1974 under attack for his liberal views, died Thursday near Paris. He was 76 years old.
        Viktor P. Nekrasov, who won the Stalin Prize for literature in 1947 but emigrated to the west in 1974 under attack for his liberal views, died Thursday near Paris. He was 76 years old.
        A spokesman for a private clinic in the Paris suburb of Gentilly said Mr. Nekrasov had been hospitalized for 10 days suffering from cancer.
        Mr. Nekrasov won the Soviet Union's highest literary award for his novel ''In the Trenches of Stalingrad,'' distilled from his experiences as an army officer in World War II.
        The book was often compared to ''All Quiet on the Western Front'' for its simplicity of narrative.
        It won the prize on the personal intervention of Stalin despite the author's irreverent tone and refusal to stick to guidelines set by the Communist Party. Denounced by Khrushchev
        But his refusal to conform soon brought him into conflict with the authorities. He was denounced by Stalin's successor, Nikita S. Khrushchev, in 1963 for accounts of travels in the West that seemed too approving and that criticized Soviet surveillance of Soviets abroad.
        Commenting in 1964 on the English translation of Mr. Nekrasov's travel book ''Both Sides of the Ocean,'' Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times, ''Although Mr. Nekrasov is not on the same artistic level as Boris Pasternak, he has an equal right not to be vilified by the head of his state.'' The author, Mr. Atkinson said, ''writes in the colloquial style that seems to come naturally to Russians and he conveys a spontaneous sense of intimacy and goodwill.'' Mr. Atkinson also commented on his ''attractive sense of humor.''
        Mr. Nekrasov criticized the 1968 Soviet intervention in Czechoslovakia, supported the dissident writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn, and took part in protests on Jewish and Ukrainian issues.
        Shortly before leaving his country, Mr. Nekrasov said that his apartment in Kiev had been searched, that he had been subjected to six days of interrogation and that he had been told his works would no longer be published in the Soviet Union unless he denounced Solzhenitsyn and Andrei D. Sakharov.
        ''Surely no one seriously thinks that a decent man can allow himself to join in that shameful stream of slander which was poured on the heads of the two most worthy people of our country,'' he wrote in a letter circulated in Moscow. 'Someone Else's Culture'
        ''Are we not being too generous throwing away people of whom we should be proud?'' he asked. ''The artist Chagall, the composer Stravinsky, the helicopter designer Sikorsky, all because part of someone else's culture.''
        Expelled from the Communist Party and the Writers Union, Mr. Nekrasov left in 1974 on a two-year exit visa, but did not return.
        In Paris he was a well-known figure among Soviet dissidents, speaking against the mistreatment of intellectuals. His Soviet citizenship was revoked in 1979.
        Born on June 17, 1911, in Kiev, Mr. Nekrasov spent his early childhood in France. He returned to Russia shortly before the 1917 revolution.
      