
       Richard Marquand, a British director who captivated American movie-goers with ''Return of the Jedi'' and ''Jagged Edge,'' died Friday at a hospital near London. He was 49 years old.
        Richard Marquand, a British director who captivated American movie-goers with ''Return of the Jedi'' and ''Jagged Edge,'' died Friday at a hospital near London. He was 49 years old.
        A spokesman for the hospital, the Kent and Sussex Hospital, told The Associated Press that he did not know the cause of death. But a British news agency reported that Mr. Marquand had a stroke Aug. 30.
        Mr. Marquand, whose last film, ''Hearts of Fire,'' is scheduled for release this fall, was born in Cardiff, Wales.
        He began his career as a newscaster in Hong Kong. After returning to England, he directed several television documentaries for the BBC. He won an Emmy Award in 1972 for ''Search for the Nile'' and also directed ''The Birth of the Beatles'' for television.
        His films covered a broad range of styles, from the extravagant science fiction fantasy of ''Return of the Jedi'' to the tight suspense of ''Jagged Edge,'' in which the actress Glenn Close played a lawyer who defends a newspaper heir, played by Jeff Bridges, accused of killing and mutilating his wife. Mr. Marquand also directed ''Until September,'' a romantic comedy starring Karen Allen that received only a lukewarm reception.
        ''Hearts of Fire'' stars the singer Bob Dylan as a retired rock star. Mr. Dylan also wrote four songs to be featured in the movie, which Mr. Marquand described shortly before shooting began as ''about creativity, stardom and success.''
        ''Return of the Jedi'' was the third movie in the ''Star Wars'' series conceived by the director George Lucas, which began with ''Star Wars'' and ''The Empire Strikes Back.'' Sidney Ganis, the president of worldwide marketing for Paramount Pictures and an associate of Mr. Lucas, noted that ''the toughest thing is to come in and try to conclude a trilogy after two incredibly successful films.'' But Mr. Marquand, he said, was ''able to do it in grand style.''
        In an interview during the filming of ''Return of the Jedi,'' Mr. Marquand said he considered the saga ''the myth of the 70's and the 80's, just as the Beatles were the myth of the 60's and early 70's.''
        Mr. Marquand also said at the time that he had developed a special sympathetic relationship with Chewbacca, the towering, hirsute creature who appeared in all the ''Star Wars'' movies.
        ''He's very laid back, and he never completely knows what's going on around him,'' Mr. Marquand said. ''He isn't a heroic character, but he gets himself in these situations where he's got to come through.''
        Mr. Marquand was married twice and had four children.
      