
       Jean Schlumberger, one of the leading jewelry designers of the 20th century, died Saturday morning at his apartment in Paris. He was 80 years old.
        Jean Schlumberger, one of the leading jewelry designers of the 20th century, died Saturday morning at his apartment in Paris. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Schlumberger's death was announced yesterday by Nicolas Bongard, his longtime business partner. Mr. Bongard said he did not know the cause of death, but added that the designer had been in poor health in recent years, after a series of strokes.
        Born in Alsace, France, Mr. Schlumberger achieved international recognition through his association with Tiffany & Company, where, since 1956, he had his own salon on the mezzanine, which was reached by a private elevator. He was a former Tiffany vice president.
        Mr. Schlumberger's jewelry was expensive, opulent and often fanciful. His inspiration, he once said, came from such disparate sources as nature, architecture, the arts and exotic travel. He transformed objects such as leaves, shells, tropical plants, birds, animals and boxes into gold or platinum jewels, usually encrusted with precious and semiprecious stones and enamel. An 'Organic' Approach
        Describing his theory of design, Mr. Schlumberger once said, ''I try to make everything look as if it were growing, uneven, at random, organic, in motion.''
        His clients included the Duchess of Windsor, Babe Paley, Bunny Mellon, Francoise de la Renta and Diana Vreeland.
        Mr. Schlumberger was also the jeweler who, in 1957, set the fabled Tiffany diamond, the largest and finest canary diamond in the world. As a setting for the diamond - which weighed 128.51 carats and was discovered in Africa in 1871 - he created a necklace and clip that surrounded the gem with swirling diamond ribbons.
        The son of a wealthy textile manufacturer, Mr. Schlumberger was born in 1907 in Mulhouse, Alsace. He sketched constantly during his youth, but his parents tried to discourage his artistic interest by refusing to allow him to undertake formal training.
        Mr. Schlumberger began his career in Paris making buttons for Elsa Schiaparelli, the dress designer, who later commissioned him to design costume jewelry. Served Under de Gaulle
        During World War II, Mr. Schlumberger was in the French Army and survived Dunkirk. He also served in England and the Middle East with the Free French forces under Gen. Charles de Gaulle.
        After the war, Mr. Schlumberger came to New York and got a job designing high-fashion clothing for Chez Ninon. In 1946, he and Mr. Bongard opened a jewelry salon in New York City. Ten years later, he joined Tiffany, at the request of Walter Hoving, the store's chairman.
        Despite his international reputation, Mr. Schlumberger was known as a man who was reticent by nature and shy of publicity. In 1977, the French Government made him a Chevalier of the National Order of Merit.
        Surviving are two sisters, Jacqueline Schlumberger and Lisa Despas, both residents of France.
        Funeral arrangements have not been completed.
      