
       Quinn Martin, one of Hollywood's most successful producers of action-adventure series for television, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Quinn Martin, one of Hollywood's most successful producers of action-adventure series for television, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Martin's company, Q.M. Productions, turned out a total of more than 2,000 hours of television programming, including the long-running series ''Streets of San Francisco,'' ''The Fugitive,'' ''Barnaby Jones'' and ''Cannon.'' He sold his company to the Taft Broadcasting Company in 1979, moved to Rancho Santa Fe, north of San Diego, and became involved in a number of education, drama and sports activities.
        He was an adjunct professor of drama at Warren College of the University of California at San Diego, where he endowed a chair of drama. He also served as president of one of the country's best-known regional theaters, the La Jolla Playhouse, and as president of the Del Mar Fair Board.
        After the sale of his independent production company, Mr. Martin remained in business as the head of Q.M. Communications and was developing two motion-picture properties for Warner Brothers at the time of his death. Started as Film Editor
        Mr. Martin was born in New York City. His family moved to Los Angeles, where his father, Martin G. Cohn, was a film editor and producer. He graduated from Fairfax High School and, in 1949, from the University of California at Berkeley, after having served in the Army for five years during World War II.
        He started his career as a film editor, writer and head of post-production at various studios. His first producing job was at Desilu Production's ''Jane Wyman Show,'' for which he had been the principal writer.
        He then produced ''The Desilu Playouse'' and, also at Desilu, the two-part version of ''The Untouchables,'' which he then turned into a series.
        The show was one of a number of action features denounced at Congressional hearings in 1961 for excessive violence.
        The year before, Mr. Martin formed his own company and signed a two-year contract with ABC for a number of half-hour and hourlong programs. By 1964, he had created ''12 O'Clock High,'' the saga of a bomber group flying daytime raids over Germany. In 1965, his company produced ''The F.B.I.''
        Altogether, Mr. Martin's company produced 16 one-hour prime-time series and 20 movies of the week.
        Mr. Martin is survived by his wife, Muffet; three children, Jill, Cliff and Michael, and his mother.
      