
       Herbert J. Bloch, one of the world's leading experts on stamp collecting, died of a heart attack Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, he was 79 years old.
        Herbert J. Bloch, one of the world's leading experts on stamp collecting, died of a heart attack Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, he was 79 years old.
        In recent years Mr. Bloch was chairman of the expert committee of the Philatelic Foundation in Manhattan, but he retired from that position earlier this year because of ill health.
        Peter Robertson, curator of the foundation, called Mr. Bloch ''the top expert'' in philately, and Helen M. Galatan, a trustee of the Collectors Club of New York, said most stamp collectors regarded him as ''the foremost authority on philately in the world today.'' Owned a Stamp Company
        Previously he owned the Mercury Stamp Company in Manhattan and was the sole surviving member of the Friedl Expert Committee, a highly regarded group of stamp evaluators, called ''expertizers'' among stamp collectors. Mr. Bloch closed the company and abolished the committee when he joined the Philatelic Foundation, an educational organization.
        Mr. Bloch was born in Buhl, Germany, and started collecting stamps at the age of 7. A graduate of the University of Heidelberg, he intended to become a lawyer but found that under Hitler he was prohibited as a Jew from taking the bar examination.
        He came to this country with his first wife, Trude, in 1936, and while she worked as a secretary, he used his already extensive knowledge of stamps to earn a living.
        He found work with various New York dealers and in 1943 joined H.R. Harmer Inc., since renamed Harmers of New York Inc., a stamp auction house. As head of the company's philatelic division, he appraised and prepared collections for auctions.
        In 1948 he joined Otto Friedl and Edwin Mueller, noted stamp evaluators, in forming the Friedl Expert Committee. Mr. Friedl died in 1952.
        Six years later Mr. Bloch became the partner of Mr. Mueller in the Mercury Stamp Company. Mr. Mueller died in 1962. Mr. Bloch continued the committee's work of evaluating stamps for genuineness and other qualities. Services Widely Sought
        According to an article in Stamp World magazine in December 1982, dealers used Mr. Bloch's services to satisfy themselves that what they were selling at auctions was genuine. The article continued:
        ''Many of them consider the 'HBloch' signature, penciled on the back of a stamp, European fashion in tiny, cramped letters, to be its best possible authentication.''
        He won many top awards in philately, including the Lichtenstein Memorial Award of the Collectors Club and the John N. Luff Award of the American Philatelic Society.
        Mr. Bloch's first wife died about 20 years ago. He is survived by his second wife, Virginia; a son, Peter, of Manhattan, and two daughters, Dr. Susan Wishnok of Tucson, Ariz., and Marion Bloch of London; a sister, Hilda Rund of Miami, and one grandchild.
      