
       Paul J. Jennings, former president of the International Union of Electronic Workers, died Monday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I., after a long illness. He was 69 years old.
        Paul J. Jennings, former president of the International Union of Electronic Workers, died Monday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I., after a long illness. He was 69 years old.
        A tough-minded union organizer, Mr. Jennings deposed James B. Carey, the founding president of what was formerly known as the International Union of Electrical Workers, and became head of the 198,000-member body in 1965.
        As president, Mr. Jennings played a key role in the formation in 1966 of the 13-union bargaining committee to coordinate labor's strategy in contract negotiations at General Electric and Westinghouse.
        Mr. Jennings led an all-out drive against President Richard M. Nixon's campaign for re-election in 1972. He warned that ''unless Nixon can be taken out of the White House, this country is going to be an absolute shambles.'' Fought Communist Faction
        He was one of 16 national labor leaders whose names were included on the Nixon White House list of ''political opponents,'' made public by the Senate Watergate Committee on June 27, 1973.
        In the 1940's, when the United Electrical Workers union was torn by strife between pro-Communist and anti-Communist factions, Mr. Jennings became a leader in the fight against the Communists. When the union was ousted from the Congress of Industrial Organizations on charges of Communist domination, he joined Mr. Carey to start the International Union of Electrical Workers.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Jennings attended James Madison High School, the RCA Institute and the Crown Heights Labor School, all in Brooklyn.
        He went to work for the Brooklyn Edison Company and was elected steward of the Independent Utility Workers in 1938. He then worked as an electronics technician with the Sperry Rand Corporation in Great Neck, L.I. He helped organize a union at the plant, starting out as shop steward and becoming president in 1948.
        After the International Union of Electrical Workers received its charter in 1950, Mr. Jennings was elected executive secretary of District 3, comprising New York and New Jersey, with one-third of the union's membership. Won on a Recount
        Under Mr. Carey's leadership, union membership soared at first, then declined seriously and its bargaining efforts were weakened by internal battles. Mr. Jennings was persuaded to challenge Mr. Carey for the presidency at the union's convention in 1964 and won on a recount of the vote.
        Active in the Liberal Party of New York, Mr. Jennings was a leader among labor officials in his concern for the safety of consumers as well as plant workers. At the League for Industrial Democracy's annual awards in 1968, he called for changes in the production of color television sets to reduce or eliminate the emission of X-rays.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Paul D., of Williamstown, Mass; a daughter, Eileen Fennell of West Hempstead; four brothers, Frank, of New York City, Russell and Thomas. both of Richmond, Va., and Howard, of Roslyn Heights, L.I., and five grandchildren.
        A funeral mass is scheduled for St. Thomas the Apostle Roman Catholic Church in West Hempstead tomorrow at 11 A.M.
      