
       Adm. Americo de Deus Rodrigues Thomaz, who was hand-picked as President by the dictator Antonio Salazar and ousted in a leftist military coup in 1974, died early today. He was 92 years old.
        Adm. Americo de Deus Rodrigues Thomaz, who was hand-picked as President by the dictator Antonio Salazar and ousted in a leftist military coup in 1974, died early today. He was 92 years old.
        Mr. Thomaz, a far-rightist and staunch supporter of colonial wars, died at his home in this seaside resort outside Lisbon.
        He had reached the post of Navy Minister when he was chosen to seek the office of President in 1958 by Mr. Salazar, who ran the country as Prime Minister from 1932 until 1968.
        Although Mr. Thomaz was elected in that race, a liberal army general, Humberto Delgado, polled a strong 25 percent in the balloting, leading Mr. Salazar to abolish direct elections and ''re-elect'' Mr. Thomaz in indirect electoral college polls in 1965 and 1972. Supported Colonial Wars
        After a quiet career as titular head of state under Mr. Salazar, Mr. Thomaz became increasingly outspoken in opposing liberalization policies proposed by Marcello Caetano, who succeeded Mr. Salazar after the dictator was incapacitated in a fall in 1968. Mr. Salazar died two years later.
        Mr. Thomaz strongly supported colonial wars begun in 1961 in Angola and Mozambique, and he managed to slow the pace of changes Mr. Caetano sought in the one-party state, due in part to the secret police Mr. Salazar had set up decades earlier.
        Political repression at home and national anger over the endless colonial wars prompted the secret formation in 1973 of the Armed Forces Movement, a group of leftist career military men determined to bring an end to the Salazar-Caetano Government.
        On April 25, 1974, the movementstaged a pre-dawn coup. Mr. Thomaz and Mr. Caetano were arrested and shipped off to Madeira, a Portuguese island off the coast of Morocco, before being exiled to Brazil.
        Mr. Thomaz returned home in 1978, and Mr. Caetano died in Sao Paulo, Brazil, in October 1980 at the age of 74.
        A friend of the family, Francisco Leite Pinto, said that funeral services would be held Saturday at Cascais Parochial Church, and that Mr. Thomaz would then be buried at Ajuda cemetery in Lisbon, 19 miles to the east.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria Gertrudes Thomaz, and a daughter, Maria Madalena.
      