
       Emil Schram, the president of the New York Stock Exchange from 1941 to 1951, died yesterday at his home in Peru, Ind. He was 93 years old.
        Emil Schram, the president of the New York Stock Exchange from 1941 to 1951, died yesterday at his home in Peru, Ind. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Schram was credited with helping re-establish public confidence in the exchange, the world's largest, and in free markets and the vital role of informed investments in stimulating the national and international economies after the economic traumas of the Depression.
        Before joining the exchange, he was the chairman from 1939 to 1941 of the New Deal's Reconstruction Finance Corporation. He thus had access to some of the most powerful leaders of the Federal Government at a time when the exchange was lobbying for tax legislation to spur investment.
        The announcement of Mr. Schram's appointment to the stock exchange caused a stir in New Deal circles, where it was interpreted as a tentative burying of the hatchet in the long feud between Wall Street and the liberal Democratic administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Lobbied for Businesses
        Mr. Schram, a tall, amiable man with a deep voice, adapted easily to Wall Street and led repeated efforts to lower taxes on investments. A major success was the enactment of a more liberal capital-gains tax law under which an investment held for at least six months became taxable at only half the regular rate. He also led many Washington lobbying efforts on behalf of small businesses.
        When he retired from the exchange, he resumed operation of his farms in Peru and in Hillview, Ill. He was a contributor and leader of many public-service organizations and was president of the U.S.O. from 1953 to 1957.
        Mr. Schram, a third-generation descendant of German immigrants, was born in Peru, Ind., on Nov. 23, 1893, and was educated in local elementary and high schools.
        He started work in the office of a timber and coal dealer who was so impressed with his abilities that he asked the 21-year-old Mr. Schram to develop a 5,000-acre tract of swampy land on the banks of the Illinois River. He knew nothing of farming and less about irrigation, but he had the land rapidly drained and planted and, within a few years, its annual yield rose from 6,000 to 140,000 bushels of corn. He was also a longtime manager of two grain elevators. A 'Unanimous' Wall Street
        As a result of his irrigation work, he became chairman of a trade group, the National Drainage Association, and met officials of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation as a petitioner for loans. He joined the Federal agency in 1933, became a member of its board in 1936 and its chairman three years later. In that decade, he also held high posts with the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Export-Import Bank of Washington.
        Mr. Schram's top annual salary at the finance corporation was $10,000, while his starting salary at the stock exchange was $48,000. Four years later, it was raised to $100,000 and Fortune magazine concluded, ''Today Wall Street is practically unanimous in approval of the administrative and public relations job that Schram has done, and of his raise.''
        However, some older brokers often opposed him and called his $500,000-a-year advertising budget excessive. In 1949, several of the brokers tried to return some of his authority to the exchange's member committees. He successfully fought the effort, asserting that it was ''the old, discredited committee system'' that had tarnished Wall Street's reputation.
        Surviving are his second wife, the former Margaret Beauchamp; three sons (by his first wife, the former Mabel Miller, who died in 1969), Robert and Daniel, both of Peru, Ind., and James, of Indianapolis; a stepdaughter, Julie Pleus of Plandome, L.I.; two stepsons, Claude E. Hamilton 3d of Alexandria, Va., and Michael Percy of San Francicso; 10 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
        A funeral will be held Monday at 11 A.M. at the First Presbyterian Church in Peru.
      