
       Francis E. Dorn, a Congressman in the 1950's and the first Republican from Brooklyn to be elected to the House of Representatives in 32 years, died of cancer Thursday in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn.
        Francis E. Dorn, a Congressman in the 1950's and the first Republican from Brooklyn to be elected to the House of Representatives in 32 years, died of cancer Thursday in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn.
        Mr. Dorn won election to Congress in 1952 when Dwight D. Eisenhower was elected President. He was re-elected three times in a heavily Democratic district, but in 1960, when John F. Kennedy won the Presidency, he lost by a narrow margin to Hugh L. Carey, a Democrat who later become Governor of New York.
        An attorney, he won his first election in 1940, as a State Assemblyman, but resigned in 1942 to enter the Navy. He served overseas until his discharge in 1946 as a lieutenant commander. Won Concrete Contract
        He then served four years as an assistant State Attorney General before returning to private law practice.
        Several weeks ago he won approval to build and operate a city concrete plant on West 57th Street in Manhattan to supply the city concrete at a below-market rate.
        He was the founder of the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, an interfaith group concerned with religious freedom worldwide.
        Mr. Dorn was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Fordham University, where he also received his law degree.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy, of Brooklyn; three sons, Thomas of San Francisco, Steven of Jericho, L.I., and Vincent of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Therese Bernbach of Brooklyn and Karen Dorn of Cambridge, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        A mass will be said at 10:30 A.M. Monday in St. Francis Xavier Church, Carroll Streets and Sixth Avenue, in Brooklyn.
      