
       Einar Gerhardsen, a former Prime Minister of Norway who played a key role in the establishment of his nation's welfare state and its strong, pro-Western foreign policy in the decades after World War II, died Saturday at the age of 90, the Norwegian National News agency said.
        Einar Gerhardsen, a former Prime Minister of Norway who played a key role in the establishment of his nation's welfare state and its strong, pro-Western foreign policy in the decades after World War II, died Saturday at the age of 90, the Norwegian National News agency said.
        Mr. Gerhardsen died at a nursing home in Lilleborg, two months after being hospitalized for heart disease, the news agency said. At the time of his death, the agency said, his sons Rune and Truls and his daughter Torgunn were by his side.
        A commanding figure in Norwegian politics from the time of the German wartime occupation until his retirement from politics in 1972, Mr. Gerhardsen was often the key leader in an era when Norway was redefining itself as a nation and its place in the world.
        ''Einar Gerhardsen became the most towering Norwegian personality of the 20th century,'' Prime Minister Gro Harlem Bruntland said in a message to the nation.
        In Washington, President Reagan and his wife, Nancy, sent condolences. A statement released by the White House said in part: ''We warmly remember him, and in particular, appreciate his leadership in bringing Norway into the Atlantic alliance.'' Led Postwar Construction
        As leader of the Labor Party and as the head of the Government between 1945 and 1951 and again between 1955 and 1965, Mr. Gerhardsen led the postwar reconstruction of Norwegian cities and was credited with forming the political consensus that allowed the creation of a pension system for all retirees, free hospital care and programs to assist the unemployed.
        With some reservations, he brought Norway into the NATO alliance in 1949, and, in 1964, resisted powerful pressure by Nikita S. Khrushchev, then the Soviet leader, to have Norway distance itself from the Western allies.
        Einar Henry Gerhardsen was born on May 10, 1897, the son of a road construction foreman who was an active member of the Labor Party. After seven years of formal schooling, he became a road laborer and an active Labor Party member. A Councilman at 35
        In 1932, at 35, Mr. Gerhardsen was elected to the Oslo municipal council. By 1940, when Norway was invaded by the Nazis, he was Mayor of Oslo.
        During the invasion, Mr. Gerhardsen began to accompany the Norwegian royal family as it fled into exile, but decided instead to return to his duties as Mayor. The Germans removed him after one day.
        He then worked as a road laborer while working secretly in the leadership of the Resistance. In September 1941 he was arrested and sent to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp in Germany. As the war neared an end, he was taken to Oslo and held there by the Gestapo. He was freed by the Allies on May 7, 1945, and the next day resumed his post as Mayor.
        In 1964, Mr. Gerhardsen, becoming increasingly wary of Soviet and Communist intentions, responded forcefully to Mr. Khrushchev's visit to Oslo. Officials of his Government declared that Mr. Khrushchev had attempted to use ''strong-arm tactics.''
        Mr. Gerhardsen's wife, Werna Koren Christie, a Labor Party campaigner whom he married in 1932, died in 1970.
      