
       Gen. Ho Ying-chin, a former Minister of Defense in the Chinese Nationalist Government who served briefly in 1949 as his country's Prime Minister before the Communist takeover of mainland China, died of heart and lung failure Wednesday in Taipei. He was 97 years old.
        Gen. Ho Ying-chin, a former Minister of Defense in the Chinese Nationalist Government who served briefly in 1949 as his country's Prime Minister before the Communist takeover of mainland China, died of heart and lung failure Wednesday in Taipei. He was 97 years old.
        General Ho, a longtime military associate of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, was Chinese Minister of War from 1930 to 1944, then was removed from the post, reportedly under strong urging from the United States Government.
        A sharp rivalry between General Ho and Maj. Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell, commander of American forces in China, Burma and India, who had been named Chief of Staff to Chiang Kai-shek, preceded his removal.
        Gen. George C. Marshall, then Army Chief of Staff, was said to have written President Roosevelt in March 1943 criticizing General Ho as favoring a ''watch and wait'' policy. President Roosevelt was said to have proposed to Chiang, in September 1944, that General Stilwell be placed in ''unrestricted command'' of Chinese Nationalist forces.
        General Ho was removed as Minister of War in November 1944 and made Commander in Chief of the Chinese Army. In that position, he accepted the surrender of one million Japanese troops in Nanjing Sept. 9, 1945. This was a week after General Douglas MacArthur had accepted the Japanese surrender on behalf of the Allies aboard the U.S.S. Missouri.
        General Ho was among a dozen generals who fled mainland China for Taiwan in 1949 with Chiang Kai-shek after losing the civil war to the Communists. He then served as Taiwan's Defense Minister from 1949 to 1958. He was also at one time president of the Red Cross Society in Taiwan.
        He was born in China, but received much of his early military training in Japan. He was a military leader during Chiang Kai-shek's struggle for power and was named Minister of War two years after the formal establishment of the National Government in 1928.
        In 1946 he served as Chinese delegate to the military staff committee of the United Nations and chief of the Chinese military mission to the United States. He returned to China in early 1948 and, with the Nationalists' position in the civil war deteriorating, was made Minister of Defense. In March 1949 he was named Prime Minister but served only a little more than two months before resigning at the end of May.
        On Taiwan, he was named chairman of the Strategic Advisory Commission and became a member of the central advisory committee of the Kuomintang. In later years he became active in the Moral Rearmament Movement.
        A widower, he is survived by a daughter, Li Chu.
      