
       Vance L. Stickell, the executive vice president in charge of circulation and advertising at The Los Angeles Times, died Monday of cancer of the colon at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 62 years old.
        Vance L. Stickell, the executive vice president in charge of circulation and advertising at The Los Angeles Times, died Monday of cancer of the colon at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 62 years old.
        A prominent figure in national advertising circles for many years, Mr. Stickell helped initiate the concepts of advertising in geographic zones and of providing personalized services to the thousands of advertising clients served by his newspaper. During his tenure, The Los Angeles Times enjoyed record advertising and circulation performance, reaching $882 million in net revenues for 1986.
        ''The progress and growth of The Times is in a large measure due to his achievements and the fulfillment of his dreams,'' said Otis Chandler, the former publisher.
        Mr. Stickell held a number of influential posts in the advertising industry and served as vice chairman of the Advertising Council. As chairman of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau's long-range planning committee, he played a key role in putting into effect such industry improvements as syndicated audience research and standardization of page sizes and formats. Scholarship in His Name
        Mr. Stickell was a recipient of the American Advertising Federation's Silver Medal award and was selected chairman of the council of judges for the American Advertising Federation's Advertising Hall of Fame. In 1985, The Los Angeles Times established a retail marketing scholarship in his name at California State University at Los Angeles.
        Born in Ong, Neb., Mr. Stickell joined The Times immediately after graduating from DePauw University in 1948. He began his career as a merchandising field trainee and advanced through the newspaper's display advertising department, becoming manager of display advertising in 1962. In 1968, he was named vice president in charge of sales. In 1981 he was given the title of executive vice president, marketing, one of the newspaper's top five executive positions.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Lee Allen; his mother, Helen J. Stickell of Laguna Beach, Calif., and a sister, Helen Kerr of Chelsea, Mich., and La Quinta, Calif.
      