
       Andrei N. Kolmogorov, the founder of modern probability theory and one of the 20th century's most eminent mathematicians, died in Moscow on Tuesday, the Soviet press agency Tass reported yesterday. He was 84 years old.
        Andrei N. Kolmogorov, the founder of modern probability theory and one of the 20th century's most eminent mathematicians, died in Moscow on Tuesday, the Soviet press agency Tass reported yesterday. He was 84 years old.
        Dr. Kolmogorov's contributions to mathematics in a career that spanned two generations were recognized by a host of honors both in the Soviet Union and internationally. An obituary signed by Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader, declared yesterday that his life ''represented an incomparable feat for science.''
        Dr. Kolmogorov left his mark on many areas of mathematics. He developed an early theory for the flow of energy in turbulent fluids. He introduced the mathematical concept of entropy as a measure of disorder, an idea that now plays an important role in information theory.
        But his greatest single achievement was in turning ideas of chance and probability into a rigorous mathematical system in the 1930's.
        ''He was one of the very greatest mathematicians,'' said Peter Lax of the Courant Institute of Mathematics at New York University. ''He was to probability theory what Euclid was to geometry.'' Theory Is Still Central
        As Euclid did in geometry, Dr. Kolmogorov built up a system of axioms, or fundamental principles, from which complex notions could be derived. His probability theory - described by a younger colleague as the ''New Testament'' of mathematics - remains central today.
        Born in Tambov in central Russia in 1903, he attended Moscow University and became a professor there at the age of 28. He continue to serve in its administration and on its faculty until his death.
        As a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences and chairman of the Academy's committee on mathematical education, he played a central role in overhauling the teaching of mathematics in the Soviet Union in the 1960's.
        Notions of randomness and predictability, order and disorder, ran as a constant current through Dr. Kolmogorov's work on a range of problems. As a result, his contributions to mathematics often spilled over into physics.
        In the 1940's, he created a powerful technique for using probability to make predictions in the face of randomness, on the basis of a series of observations. The technique was applied to a wide range of systems, such as the problem of landing an airplane on an aircraft carrier bobbing in the sea, calculating ahead of time what its likely position would be. Instrumental in KAM Theorem
        His legacy also includes the KAM theorem, or Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser theorem, a pivotal idea in the study of stability in physical processes. KAM theorem offered a way of analyzing systems from particle beams circulating in an accelerator to the orbiting planets of the solar system.
        Dr. Kolmogorov and his students, who included the top Soviet mathematicians, were responsible for keeping their country at the forefront of mathematics internationally in an era when other areas of Soviet science lagged. His students considered him an unusual guide.
        ''He never explained anything, just posed problems,'' one of them, V. I. Arnold, once said. ''He didn't chew them over. He gave the student complete independence.''
      