
       Dr. Maxwell Finland, internationally recognized for his study of infectious diseases and their treatment, died Sunday in Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 85 years old and lived in the Jamaica Plain section of Boston.
        Dr. Maxwell Finland, internationally recognized for his study of infectious diseases and their treatment, died Sunday in Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 85 years old and lived in the Jamaica Plain section of Boston.
        Dr. Finland was George Richard Minot professor emeritus of medicine at Harvard Medical School. He spent more than 50 years at Harvard and at Boston City Hospital as head of its department of medicine, and had taught many of the nation's leaders in his field. In 1979 Boston City Hospital named its laboratory for infectious diseases in his honor.
        Dr. Finland wrote or co-wrote 800 scientific papers. He is credited with influencing pioneering studies of antibiotic therapy and the treatment for pneumonia, with classic studies in respiratory injuries associated with exposure to noxious gases, and with strong criticism of drug companies for their marketing of fixed-dose antibiotic combinations in the 1960's. The drugs were ultimately withdrawn from the market. Identified New Hazards
        He is further credited with the early identification of new infectious hazards, such as the growing resistance of some bacteria to antibiotics because of their overuse, and the emergence of dangerous new infections in hospitalized patients.
        An advisor to government agencies, Dr. Finland was an outspoken advocate of the adequate testing of drugs. He was strongly critical of medical practices leading to the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in either the treament or prevention of disease.
        Over the years, Dr. Finland turned over to Harvard Medical School money he received in numerous awards. By encouraging drug companies and other concerns to donate, he is estimated to have helped add more than $6 million to the medical school's endowment.
        In the late 1920's, Dr. Finland became interested in the bacteria that caused pnuemonia. Pioneering with treatment by sulfadiazine and penicillin, he cut the mortality rate to one-third of what it had been before the new drugs were developed.
        In 1963, he was named the Minot professor of medicine. In 1968, he relinquished his posts as director of the Second and Fourth Medical Services at Boston City Hospital and of the hospital's Thorndike Memorial Laboratory. A new chair, the Maxwell Finland Professorship in Clinical Pharmacology, was established in his honor at that time.
        Maxwell Finland was born in Russia and brought to the United States as a child. He was a graduate of Boston English High School and graduated from Harvard cum laude in 1926. After completing study at Harvard Medical School, Dr Finland interned at Boston City Hospital.
        Dr. Finland, a bachelor, had no immediate survivors.
        Services will be held at noon today in the Levine Chapels, Brookline, Mass.
      