
       Philleo Nash, an adviser to President Truman on minority affairs and the Commissioner of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for five years in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Oct. 12 of renal cell cancer at a hospice in Marshfield, Wis. He was 77 years old.
        Philleo Nash, an adviser to President Truman on minority affairs and the Commissioner of the Bureau of Indian Affairs for five years in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Oct. 12 of renal cell cancer at a hospice in Marshfield, Wis. He was 77 years old.
        An anthropologist, Mr. Nash served from 1946 to 1952 as special assistant for minority affairs under Truman. In that capacity, he lobbied for fair employment practices and fought to end discrimination in the armed forces and the Civil Service.
        In January 1952, Mr. Nash became the first member of the Truman staff to be accused by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin of being a Communist, a charge Mr. Nash denounced as a ''contemptible lie.'' The attack prompted Truman to defend his adviser and call McCarthy a pathological character assassin who needed no information to make accusations against others.
        Mr. Nash was born on Oct. 25, 1909, the youngest of three children, in Wisconsin Rapids. One of his grandfathers, T. E. Nash, founded the Nekoosa-Edwards Paper Company. Graduate of Wisconsin U.  The younger Mr. Nash received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin at Madison in 1932 after majoring in anthropology, and earned a Ph.D. in the subject five years later at the University of Chicago. After spending a year on an Indian reservation in Oregan, he wrote his doctoral dissertation examining the Klamath Indian ghost dance of 1870, which he contended was a response to the tribe's contact with white men.
        Upon completing his studies at Chicago, Mr. Nash taught anthropology at the University of Toronto and the University of Wisconsin. In 1942 he moved to Washington and was appointed special assistant to Elmer Davis, the director of the Office of War Information. He wrote and edited Government publications on minority groups in the armed services.
        While serving in the Truman Administration, Mr. Nash fought to end segregation in the armed services. He worked closely with Thurgood Marshall, then a lawyer for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and now an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Served as Lieutenant Governor
        With Dwight D. Eisenhower's election to the Presidency, Mr. Nash returned to Wisconsin and became chairman of the state Democratic Party. In 1958 he was elected Lieutenant Governor under Gaylord A. Nelson. He was defeated in 1960, and a year later President Kennedy appointed him Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
        In 1966, Mr. Nash stepped down from the post and ran a consulting business in Washington. He also headed a program at American University for students with special educational needs.
        He returned to Wisconsin in 1977 to manage the Biron Cranberry Company, a family business.
        Survivors include his wife, Edith Rosenfels Nash, of Wisconsin Rapids; two daughters, Sally Nash of Rappahannock County, Va., and Maggie Kast of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      