
       Victor W. Ganz, vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, chairman of the Battery Park City Fine Arts Committee and a distinguished collector of 20th-century art, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in New York. He was 74 years old.
        Victor W. Ganz, vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, chairman of the Battery Park City Fine Arts Committee and a distinguished collector of 20th-century art, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in New York. He was 74 years old.
        When still in his late teens, Mr. Ganz began his career as a collector with paintings by Jules Pascin, Louis Eilshemius and Raphael Soyer. In 1941, there began what he sometimes described as ''a love affair with Picasso.'' Thereafter he bought heavily and very well in all periods of Picasso until in 1956 he acquired the entire series of Picasso's variations of Eugene Delacroix's ''Women of Algiers.''
        Knowing that Picasso by then had the status of an Old Master, he began shortly afterward to collect Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg and later Frank Stella. When they, in their turn, had assumed magisterial status, he once again turned to young and less familiar artists, especially to Eva Hesse, Dorothea Rockburne and Mel Bochner. In every case he and his wife, the former Sally Wile, worked as equal partners and showed a degree of discrimination that was much admired by museum professionals. Compassion for Artists
        Tom Armstrong, director of the Whitney, said yesterday: ''More than anyone in our current experience, Victor Ganz inspired us to respect artists and their work through his extraordinary compassion for their lives and his empathy with their creative genius. His love of art affected everyone, and he cajoled us to do our best work on behalf of both young and mature artists. He told us to love art for his reasons, the best reasons, during a time when all too often esthetics became secondary.''
        Victor Wendell Ganz was born in New York on April 7, 1913. The son of Saul Ganz and his wife, the former Ruth Wendell, he attended public schools and the City College of New York before going to work in a costume jewelry business that had been founded by his uncle in 1875. On his retirement, he gave all his time and energy to public service for art. A trustee of the Whitney Museum since 1981 and its vice president when he died, he was the only active trustee to have served on all its acquisition committees.
        He was also chairman of the Battery Park City Fine Arts Committee from its inception in 1982. In 1985 he was on the museum's advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts.
        He is survived by his wife, a son, Tony, and three daughters, Victoria de Felice, Kate Ganz Dorment and Nancy Wright.
      