
       Andre Masson, a major Surrealist painter, for more than 60 years a powerful and invigorating presence on the international art scene and the subject in 1976 of a retrospective exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died in Paris yesterday. He was 91 years old.
        Andre Masson, a major Surrealist painter, for more than 60 years a powerful and invigorating presence on the international art scene and the subject in 1976 of a retrospective exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died in Paris yesterday. He was 91 years old.
        In 1924, when Max Ernst and Joan Miro were painting the early masterpieces of the Surrealist movement, Andre Masson had his first one-man show at the Galerie Simon in Paris. It made a great impression, in part because Mr. Masson revealed himself as a hallucinatory exponent of automatism, first in drawing and later in painting. By letting his hand run free without without either premeditation or conscious guidance, Masson aimed to introduce into art a hot line to the unconscious and a source of energy that would have no precedent. As time went on, he abandoned on occasion the traditional methods of applying paint to canvas, preferring to paint with colors squeezed directly from the tube or spread with his hands.
        Concurrently, he established himself as a spellbinding talker and an all-purpose idea man in a city that has always valued such people very highly. Though always his own man, he was in and out of controversy for most of his long life.
        As an animating presence, he had few rivals. As a painter, he had his great successes - notably the ''Battle of Fishes'' of 1926, which Alfred Barr bought for the Museum of Modern Art as early as 1937. And as a draftsman he had a jagged, fast-moving and highly evocative line that forked like lightning as it darted this way and that in the interstices of the psyche. In his less happy moments it could, however, be said, as Hilton Kramer put it in 1976, that he was ''less a vessel of the unconscious than an illustrator of ideas about it.'' A Liberating Force
        Mr. Masson came to the United States as a refugee during World War II. Though he knew no English and reportedly refused to learn so much as a word of it, his command of automatist techniques and his total lack of prejudice when it came to their application had evident affinities with the activity of Jackson Pollock and others. The exact degree of Mr. Masson's influence remains a matter of dispute, but there would seem to be no doubt that, in New York as in Paris, he acted as a liberating force.
        After spending the years from 1941 to 1945 in this country, Mr. Masson returned to France with his second wife, the former Rose Makles, whom he had married in 1932. Thereafter, they divided their time between Paris and the countryside near Aix-en-Provence. Honors came his way - the Grand Prix National des Arts in 1954, the Sao Paulo Biennial Prize in 1963, high rank in the Legion of Honor and the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres - and in 1962 he was invited by Andre Malraux, then France's Minister of Culture, to redecorate the ceiling of the Theatre de l'Odeon, now the Theatre de France.
        But fundamentally he remained a man on his own, progressively more and more confined by ill health to his Balzacian town house in the Marais in Paris. Neither as an artist nor an encyclopedic talker did he change (''I pounced on my drawing paper and let myself go,'' he said of some drawings that he exhibited in 1970).
        He also remained true to the automatic procedures, or intentions, that he had formulated half a century earlier. When pressed to identify the subject matter of one of his late paintings, he said: ''A woman's torso, which is also a violet tower. A skull-citadel, in ruins. A moat, down into which a woman's head enclosed in a glass ball is rolling. The ancient Medusa of the Roman thermae. A cascade of clumps of violets that smash on the ground like stones.'' Theater and Costume Design
        The son of Aime Masson and his wife, the former Marthe Benard, Andre Masson was born in Balagny-sur-Therain, near Paris, on Jan. 4, 1896. Initially, he was educated as a painter at the Academie Royale des Beaux-Arts in Brussels. But when he was 16, the Belgian poet Emile Verhaeren said to him: ''Go to Paris! That's where painting is being made!'' The young Masson followed this advice and completed his studies at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris, the city with which he was to become identified.
        By temperament much attracted to the theater, Mr. Masson designed costumes and decor in 1933 for ''Les Presages,'' a ballet presented by Colonel de Basil's Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo, and shortly after the end of World War II he designed Jean-Louis Barrault's production of ''Hamlet'' for the Renaud-Barrault company in Paris. In later years it was a joy to him that his son Diego (one of his three children by his first marriage) became internationally known as a concert and opera conductor.
        To the end of his life, Mr. Masson excited the interest and admiration of younger critics and curators. Earlier this year, an anthology of his drawings, organized by an English critic and historian, David Sylvester, was presented at the Hayward Gallery in London by the Arts Council of Great Britain.
        He is survived by two sons, Diego and Luis, and a daughter, Gladys.
      