
       Dr. Edgar Lambert Piret, a chemical engineer who held a number of patents and who was one of the first scientists attached to United States embassies abroad, died Sept. 24 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., of complications following a stroke. He was 77 years old.
        Dr. Edgar Lambert Piret, a chemical engineer who held a number of patents and who was one of the first scientists attached to United States embassies abroad, died Sept. 24 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., of complications following a stroke. He was 77 years old.
        In 1959, Dr. Piret, then a professor of chemical engineering at the University of Minnesota and a consultant to the Minesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, was one of seven scientists posted to embassies in Europe and Japan in an effort to strengthen ties between science and diplomacy.
        Dr. Piret served in Paris for eight years, attaining the rank of counselor for scientific and technological affairs. While there he organized bilateral programs in oceanography, environment, space, medicne, astronomy and other scientific areas with France, Belgium, Spain and Portugal.
        A native of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Dr. Piret received bachelor's and doctoral degrees in chemical engineering from the University of Minnesota and a doctorate in biochemistry and bacteriology from the Univesity of Lyon, France.
        Dr. Piret held patents that led to industrial products sold worldwide, including the K-ration issued to combat troops in World War II and the Scotchlite Bead technology for making highway signs. He developed means to measure traces of toxic pollutants in the atmosphere and in waste waters. He was the author of more than 60 technical papers.
        For his contributions to chemical engineering he received the Walker Award of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in 1955.
        Dr. Piret, a resident of Lexington, Mass., is survived by his wife, the former Alice Moeglein; six children, Mary Louise, Jacqueline, John and James, all of Cambridge, Robert of Paris and Marguerite of Belmont, Mass.; a brother, Paul, and two grandchildren.
      