
       Albert P. Crary, a polar explorer and scientist, died Thursday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C., of complications following surgery for a spinal tumor. He was 76 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Albert P. Crary, a polar explorer and scientist, died Thursday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C., of complications following surgery for a spinal tumor. He was 76 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. Crary, a geophysicist, was a veteran of scientific expeditions to the Arctic and Antarctica. He had spent several years in the 1950's and 1960's in exploring the regions of the North Pole and South Pole. Eventually he became chief scientist of the United States Antarctic Research Program.
        In 1960-671, he led the University of Wisconsin's scientific traversal from McMurdo Sound to the South Pole. In earlier expeditions in Antarctica, he led parties across the Ross Ice Shelf and the Victoria Land plateau. Assignment at Little America
        In the 1957-58 International Geophysical Year, Mr. Crary was deputy chief scientist for the Antarctic program for the United States and scientific leader at Little America, a base for exploration of the continent.
        His work on the opposite ends of the earth began in 1952 when he was put in charge of geophysical research on an ice island, T-3, floating 70 miles from the North Pole. While on T-3, he collected data that provided clues to the polar climate over 5,000 years.
        In Antarctica On Feb. 28, 1958, a portion of a cliff on the shore of the bay at Little America gave way, plunging him into water. He was adrift an hour and a half atop a piece of ice before he was rescued.
        Recently, in establishing an Albert P. Crary Professorship of Geophysics, the Regents of the University of Wisconsin called Mr. Crary ''one of the outstanding pioneers in polar geophysics and glaciology.'' Prospected in Persian Gulf
        He was born in Pierrepont, N.Y., on July 25, 1911, and graduated from St. Lawrence University in 1931. He received a master's degree in physics at Lehigh University and entered geophysical research.
        From 1935 to 1946 he worked in oil prospecting in Texas, Louisiana, Columbia, Venezuela and England, with an interruption in 1941-42 for anti-submarine research at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts.
        He was a research scientist for the Air Force from 1946 to 1952, studying the upper atmosphere's winds and temperatures. He was given a leave from that assignment to organize oil prospecting in the Persian Gulf.
        After his active work in Antarctica ended in the 1960's, Mr. Crary was director of of the National Science Foundation's division of environmental sciences, retiring in 1976.
        His awards included the Cullum Geographical Medal of the American Geographical Society and the Patron's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society of Britain.
        He is survived by his wife, Mildred; a son, Frank J. Crary 3d of Berkeley, Calif., and two sisters, Dorothy Worzel of Southpoprt, N.C., and Marion Flagg of Oakford, Pa.
      