
       Jean Anouilh, one of France's most prominent and enduring playwrights, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Vaudois University Hospital Center in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 77 years old.
        Jean Anouilh, one of France's most prominent and enduring playwrights, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Vaudois University Hospital Center in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Anouilh's death was announced yesterday by his family. He was mourned by President Mitterrand of France and by performers at the Palais Royal Theater in Paris, where one of his plays, ''The Fighting Cock,'' is being presented.
        The actors dedicated their matinee performance yesterday to Mr. Anouilh, while President Mitterrand sent a message of condolence to his widow. ''A great writer has disappeared,'' Mr. Mitterrand said, ''one whose work marked the French theater.''
        In a writing career that spanned five decades, Mr. Anouilh wrote about 40 plays, many of them marked by gloom and cynicism. Although others might characterize his works as black comedies or tragedies, by turns hilarious and hopeless, Mr. Anouilh preferred a more individual classification system. He referred to certain works as ''pieces roses,'' or ''pink plays,'' and others as ''pieces noires,'' black ones.
        One of his most popular plays, one of the ''pieces roses,'' was ''L'Invitation au Chateau,'' known in English as ''Ring Around the Moon.'' It was first produced in Paris in 1947 and came to New York in 1950. ''The play has a sensuous quality that is wholly enchanting,'' Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times in 1950. A Comic Misanthrope
        Among Mr. Anouilh's best-known works were ''Antigone,'' first produced in 1944 and considered a metaphor for the German occupation of France; ''The Lark,'' a 1953 historical drama about Joan of Arc that, in an adaptation by Lillian Hellman, was the playwright's first Broadway hit, and ''The Waltz of the Toreadors,'' originally produced in Paris in 1952 and revived in New York as recently as 1985 by the Roundabout Theater Company.
        Mr. Anouilh's plays careened from one end of the emotional spectrum to the other. Reviewing ''The Waltz of the Toreadors'' in The Times, Mr. Atkinson described the playwright as a ''desolate man'' who ''knows how to write a remarkably gay comedy.'' Arthur Gelb wrote in The Times that ''Mr. Anouilh's balance between grim humor and real pathos is delicate.''
        Mr. Anouilh once described himself as a comic misanthrope. ''I am surrounded by foulness,'' he said. ''The world is foul and it is plain to see. My theater is a fairy tale compared to reality.''
        Mr. Anouilh drew on such theatrical staples as caricature and plays-within-plays. Often his characters were moral men and women struggling against an immoral world and living at the margins of society. But despite his bleak philosophical preoccupations, Mr. Anouilh stressed that his plays were, first and foremost, entertainment.
        ''I write plays as a chair maker makes chairs,'' he said in one of his rare interviews. ''Chairs are made to be sat on and plays are made to be played, to provide actors with work and the public with entertainment.''
        The English poet Stephen Spender once said, ''The plays of Anouilh seem to have more poetry of the theater in them than anything a contemporary poet has yet put in metrical lines upon the page.'' Widely Performed Playwright
        Although Mr. Anouilh is often described as one of the world's most widely performed playwrights, his work has sometimes seemed more popular with theatergoers than with critics. In a review of ''The Lark'' in The Times, Mr. Atkinson described the play about Joan of Arc as overly ''cerebral'' and thus inferior to George Bernard Shaw's ''St. Joan,'' which set the standard 30 years before. Nonetheless, ''The Lark'' played before enthusiastic Broadway audiences for 229 performances at the Longacre Threater.
        Several Anouilh plays were historical dramas that brought new life to old stories. ''The Lark,'' which featured Julie Harris and Boris Karloff in its Broadway production, was in this category. Another of Mr. Anouilh's important historical dramas was ''Becket,'' the tale of England's Henry II and the 12th-century Archbishop of Canterbury, which followed the same story line as T. S. Eliot's verse drama ''Murder in the Cathedral.'' The American production of ''Becket,'' with Laurence Olivier and Anthony Quinn, won a Tony Award in 1961 as the year's most distinguished play and was later made into a popular and critically acclaimed movie starring Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole.
        Other of Mr. Anouilh's plays were contemporary restatements of classical myths, among them ''Antigone,'' ''Eurydice'' and ''Medea.'' The first of these, a reworking of Sophocles's tragedy, had an inspiring pertinence when it was performed in Paris, with bombs whistling outside, during the German Occupation in 1944. In that context, many Parisians saw Antigone's flouting of Creon's authority as a symbol of the French Resistance. An Advertising Copywriter
        Mr. Anouilh's beginnings were humble. He was born on June 23, 1910, in Bordeaux, in the southwest of France. His father was a tailor and his mother a violinist who performed at casinos. The young Anouilh went along and watched operettas.
        During his teen-age years the family moved to Paris, where Mr. Anouilh later studied law for a year and a half at the Sorbonne. Concerned that his father could not absorb the cost, Mr. Anouilh abandoned law school for a position writing advertising copy for products ranging from noodles to automobiles.
        Later, the playwright described advertising copywriting as ''a great school'' for playwrights because of its ''precision, conciseness and agility of expression.''
        Mr. Anouilh wrote short plays from childhood onward, but his first official connection to the theater came when he worked as secretary to the renowned actor and director Louis Jouvet. Mr. Anouilh wrote his first play at the age of 19, and had his first success at 22 with the production of ''The Ermine,'' in 1932.
        By his middle years, Mr. Anouilh was famous, wealthy and reclusive. He owned several homes in and around Paris and also had a retreat in the Swiss Alps. He reportedly changed his unlisted telephone numbers frequently, disconnected the doorbell at his Left Bank apartment and kept a pair of binoculars at hand in the country to spot unwelcome stangers. Wrote for Films
        Slightly built, with straw-colored hair, Mr. Anouilh did not carry himself like a celebrity. On opening nights, he hid out in the prompter's box and then crept out of the theater, a slender form in tidy tweeds and round wire-rimmed eyeglasses, retreating silently across the slick cobblestones.
        ''The public is invited to the premiere,'' he once said. ''My private life is my own affair.''
        Until age and illness slowed his production, Mr. Anouilh was known as an unusually speedy writer who, for example, was said to have written ''Antigone'' in three weeks during the Occupation. ''It's scandalous,'' he once said, ''that I earn my livelihood by amusing myself as I do.''
        In addition to his primary writing, Mr. Anouilh occasionally wrote movie dialogue and translated and adapted the work of such playwrights as Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde.
        In recent years, plagued by heart disease, Mr. Anouilh had lived in a suburb of Lausanne, in a home overlooking Lake Geneva.
        He is survived by his second wife, Nicole, a son and three daughters, one of them the child of his first wife, Monelle.
        Funeral plans were incomplete last night, but a family member told The Associated Press in Lausanne that the service would be private.
      