
       Kenneth S. Uston, one of the world's foremost blackjack players whose skills prompted casinos around the world to ban him from their card tables, died on Sept. 19 in Paris. He was 52 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        Kenneth S. Uston, one of the world's foremost blackjack players whose skills prompted casinos around the world to ban him from their card tables, died on Sept. 19 in Paris. He was 52 years old and lived in San Francisco.
        Mr. Uston, author of 16 books on blackjack, video games and personal computers, spent the last year of his life on a computer project to help Kuwait track billions of dollars in investments.
        Mr. Uston, a former stock broker who was a senior vice president of the Pacific Stock Exchange in San Francisco for six years, began playing blackjack for money in the 1960's. He became so adept at using his memory to keep count of cards that he was barred in the 1970's from card tables in Atlantic City, Nevada, and Europe. He resorted to wearing disguises in order to gain access.
        In ''The Big Player,'' a book he helped write, Mr. Uston described how he would dash madly from card table to card table pretending to be drunk. When questioned by casino officials, he would say that he had once lost $30,000 at one sitting. Upon hearing of his propensity for losing, he said he was given a complimentary room, board and entertainment, as well as prostitutes, in the hope that he would again be misfortunate. Substantial Income Reaped
        Family members said Mr. Uston and his card partners reaped a substantial income at blackjack, but he later lost most of that money in real-estate investments in California.
        In 1981, Mr. Uston successfully challenged the ability of the Atlantic City casinos to prevent him from gambling. In a landmark decision, the Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court ruled, 3 to 1, that the Resorts International casino had illegally discriminated against him.
        About a year after the dispute with Resorts International, the casino hired Mr. Uston to be one of its spokesmen. He appeared in television commercials touting the disguises he had used to gain access to the tables.
        Mr. Uston was born Kenneth Senzo Usui in New York City on Jan. 12, 1935. His father, Senzo Usui, taught Japanese at Yale University. Mr. Uston graduated Phi Beta Kappa in economics at the age of 20 from Yale. Three years later he received a master's degree from Harvard University.
        A softspoken bearded man, Mr. Uston was described by those who knew him as a mathematical genius. He also had a penchant for playing jazz piano, which he began to learn when he was a 3-year-old.
        Mr. Uston's three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his mother, Elsie Usui of the Bronx; three children, Betchai Ann, Katie and John, all of Cleveland, and two sisters, Lynn Usui of Bethesda, Md., and Nancy Sukuda of Tokyo,
      