
       Allison Danzig, a sportswriter for The New York Times for 45 years and an authority on tennis, football and rowing, died yesterday of a heart attack at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Ramsey, N.J.
        Allison Danzig, a sportswriter for The New York Times for 45 years and an authority on tennis, football and rowing, died yesterday of a heart attack at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Ramsey, N.J.
        Mr. Danzig was acclaimed for distinguished sports reporting by more than a score of prominent organizations.
        In later years, Mr. Danzig's expertise was cited by Columbia University, which established the Allison Danzig Cup, given to the winner of the annual Columbia-Cornell tennis matches; by the Longwood Cricket Club in Chestnut Hill, Mass., which created an Allison Danzig Award for distinguished tennis writing, and by the Nassau Country Club, which established the Danzig Trophy for Sportsmanship.
        Over the decades, he covered five Olympic Games, in Los Angeles, London, Helsinki, Melbourne and Rome, and he wrote and edited a half-dozen books on his specialties and on baseball. A Cornell Lineman
        In 1956, Mr. Danzig completed a 525-page book, ''The History of American Football: Its Great Teams, Players and Coaches.'' A review in The Times hailed the volume as ''without doubt, the most ambitious and best book ever published on the subject of college football.'' The review was written by Herman Hickman, who had been head football coach at Yale and an All-American guard at the University of Tennessee.
        Mr. Danzig was born in Waco, Tex., and was a 1921 graduate of Cornell University, where he had been a 125-pound lineman on the varsity football team. During World War I, he had served as an infantry lieutenant at Camp Grant in Rockford, Ill.
        He was a member of the sports staff of The Brooklyn Eagle from 1921 until 1923, when he joined the sports staff of The Times. He retired from The Times in 1968, after his 70th birthday.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Dorothy Chapman; two daughters, Staffard Hull, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Mimi Christie, of Ramsey; a son, Allison C., of Huntington, L.I.; a sister, Evelyn Levine, of Port Washington, L.I.; a brother, Jackson, of Vero Beach, Fla., six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        A funeral service is to be held Monday at 1 P.M. at Trinity Episcopal Church, at 1579 Northern Boulevard in Roslyn, L.I., where Mr. Danzig had lived for 49 years.
      