
       John H. G. Pell, a historian and financial consultant, died yesterday of a heart attack at his home on the grounds of Fort Ticonderoga, N.Y. He was 83 years old and also had homes in New York City and Newport, R.I.
        John H. G. Pell, a historian and financial consultant, died yesterday of a heart attack at his home on the grounds of Fort Ticonderoga, N.Y. He was 83 years old and also had homes in New York City and Newport, R.I.
        The author of the definitive biography of Ethan Allen, Mr. Pell served for many years as the president of the Fort Ticonderoga Association.
        Mr. Pell was also Chancellor of Long Island University from 1962 to 1964, and for part of that time was the school's acting president. He had previously been a member of its board of directors.
        Mr. Pell was a direct descendant of John Pell, the first Lord of Pelham Manor, which covered much of what is now Westchester County. He was also a cousin of Claiborne Pell, a Republican Senator from Rhode Island.
        Born in Southampton, L.I., in 1904, Mr. Pell graduated from Harvard in 1924. He served in the Navy during World War II, attaining the rank of commander and receiving several decorations, including the chevalier Legion of Honor from France.
        He became a partner in John H. G. Pell & Company, an investment concern, in 1932. He remained a manager partner of the concern until his death. He also served as president of the Wall Street Investing Corporation, a mutual fund organization.
        But Mr. Pell's real passion was American history, and he devoted much of his life to preserving the 3,000-acre Fort Ticonderoga in upstate New York, which has been in the Pell family since 1820.
        Mr. Pell was also a member of the New York City American Bicentennial Committee and the State American Revolution Bicentennial Commission.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Pyrma Tilton; a son, John Bigelow of Manhattan; a daughter, Sarah Gibbs Dunning of San Jose, Calif., three grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      