
       Sol Goldman, a Brooklyn grocer's son who built one of New York City's great fortunes buying and selling real estate for more than half a century, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital, two months after undergoing hip surgery. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Sol Goldman, a Brooklyn grocer's son who built one of New York City's great fortunes buying and selling real estate for more than half a century, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital, two months after undergoing hip surgery. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Together with his late partner, Alex DiLorenzo Jr., Mr. Goldman quietly pieced together an empire of hundreds of properties worth hundreds of millions of dollars. For many years, they were considered the ''mystery'' men of their business, barely known to the public at large and an object of fascination in their trade.
        Their rise to power was relatively rapid. Brooklyn-bred and lifelong friends, they did not buy their first piece of Manhattan until 1955 but soon became legendary for their uncanny way with real-estate investments.
        By 1960, the partners acquired the Chrysler Building from Zeckendorf interests on speculation and made it their flagship. But the 1970's were a difficult time for Manhattan real estate. The Chrysler Building, more recently restored to its early Art Deco splendor, turned shabby and into the same state of disrepair as the partners' empire.
        They defaulted on their mortgage and lost their flagship building in 1975 along with scores of other properties. Mr. DiLorenzo had died that year of a heart attack in his Chrysler Building office at the age of 58. ''Business was lousy then,'' Mr. Goldman remarked years later.
        Still, even in 1976, Mr. Goldman remained the city's largest private landlord - and at the time among the most unpopular in the city - in command of more than 400 buildings assessed at $450 million. He made his comeback, and in the boom of the mid-1980's was reported to control close to 600 properties.
        William Zeckendorf Jr. then described Mr. Goldman as the ''ultimate real-estate investor.''
        ''He makes up his mind to buy faster then anyone in the business,'' Mr. Zeckendorf said. ''He buys property the way other people buy common stock.'' At the time, in 1984, Mr. Goldman had joined Mr. Zeckendorf in what was for Mr. Goldman a first venture in construction, building on a midtown site that Mr. Goldman had ''nursed'' for a number of years. 'Never Leave the Store'
        Edward R. Lewis, a partner in the brokerage firm of Brener & Lewis, recalled at the time that he once sold Mr. Goldman ''18 Sheraton hotels at one crack.''
        ''He has the greatest nose for real estate I ever saw,'' Mr. Lewis said.
        Mr. Goldman was born in Brooklyn and came into wealth by ignoring the advice of his mother: ''Never leave the store, Sol. It's a gold mine.'' Instead, he left the family grocery business to a younger brother, dropped out of Brooklyn College after a matter of months and at the age of 18 went into the business at which he became one of the most celebrated practitioners.
        He began with foreclosed buildings in Brooklyn, purchasing them for $500 in cash and no mortgage during the Depression. His reputation became one of an ''operator'' rather than a builder, a man who would buy and sell real estate over the telephone and leave Mr. DiLorenzo, his partner, in charge of management. Buying Again, With Caution
        Preferring to buy rather than sell, they worked up a huge inventory that became bloated and nearly foundered in the downturn of the 1970's, with its soaring inflation of operating costs and rising interest rates.
        Alone after that, Mr. Goldman recovered as an independent operator. Buying once again, but far more cautiously, he rebuilt a considerable inventory by the time of his death. He said that he had stopped ''leveraging'' his way up by pledging his equity in old investments in order to take on new ones.
        A very wealthy man, Mr. Goldman reported in recent years that he was paying cash for many purchases that others would have been able to undertake only with mortgages. His manner could be gruff and he was considered a hard negotiator, a man who did not mind paying off subcontrators more slowly than they would have liked.
        A believer in land value, Mr. Gold would seek out exceptionally promising Manhattan locations and was willing to accept the fact that they did not quickly produce a great deal of income.
        Mr. Goldman, who was separated from his wife, the former Lillian Schuman of Manhattan, is also survived by a son, Allan H., of Manhattan; three daughters, Diane Kemper of Manhattan, Amy Arno of Rhinebeck, N.Y., and Jane Goldman of Manhattan; his mother, Fannie Goldman of Great Neck, L.I.; two brothers, Irving, of Manhasset, L.I., and David, of Roslyn, L.I.; a sister, Elaine Koeningsberg of Great Neck, and three granddaughters.
        A funeral service is scheduled for 10 A.M. tomorrow at Temple Emanu-El, at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street.
      