
       J. Walter Severinghaus, an architect who played a key role in building the practice of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and such structures as One Chase Manhattan Plaza, died Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., after a year-long illness. He was 81 years old.
        J. Walter Severinghaus, an architect who played a key role in building the practice of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and such structures as One Chase Manhattan Plaza, died Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., after a year-long illness. He was 81 years old.
        Until his retirement in 1975, Mr. Severinghaus was a partner in the New York City office of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, which he joined in 1938, when the Chicago-based firm was beginning to expand. He was made a partner in 1949.
        Perhaps the best known project on which he was involved as a manager was the 60-story, aluminum-and-glass headquarters of the Chase Manhattan Bank, which opened in 1961. A sheer, gleaming monolith rising from a broad plaza between Pine, Nassau, Liberty and William Streets, the Chase Manhattan building forever altered the lower Manhattan skyline. The building was designed by Gordon Bunshaft, another partner of the firm.
        Some other well-known projects on which Mr. Severinghaus was involved were the International Arrivals Building at Kennedy International Airport, which was completed in 1958; the Grace Building, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, at 42d Street, completed in 1972; Texaco's corporate headquarters in Harrison, N.Y., and the Chapel House at Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y.
        A son and grandson of Methodist ministers, Mr. Severinghaus was born Dec. 20, 1905, in Seymour, Ind., and was raised in Indiana, Ohio and West Virginia. He was educated at Ohio Wesleyan University and Ohio State University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in architecture in 1931, after which he joined the New York practice of Adams & Prentice.
        During World War II, Mr. Severinghaus served in the Air Transport Command, designing and building air bases, principally in the Azores. He completed service with the rank of major.
        Mr. Severinghaus was a Fellow in the American Institute of Architects. From 1975 to 1978, he was president of the University Club in New York City. He served six years on the Scarsdale Board of Education and was active in the Scarsdale Historical Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; two children, Dr. John Merrill, of Norwich, Vt., and Nancy Clark Severinghaus of Chicago; two grandchildren, and a brother, Leslie, of Miami.
        A memorial service is scheduled Oct. 25 at 4 P.M. at the Asbury United Methodist Church, 167 Scarsdale Road, in Crestwood, N.Y.
        Correction:  October 21, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      