
       Dr. Edgar Berman, an author, newspaper columnist, surgeon and personal physician to former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, died of a heart attack yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old.
        Dr. Edgar Berman, an author, newspaper columnist, surgeon and personal physician to former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, died of a heart attack yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old.
        In the Kennedy Administration, Dr. Berman was consultant to the White House Task Force on Medicare. He was chief consultant to the State Department's Agency for International Development on Latin American health care from 1962 to 1967. He was an adviser and confidant to Vice President Humphrey on medical affairs and the biological sciences from 1964 to 1969.
        Constantly at Mr. Humphrey's side, Dr. Berman often acted as his spokesman, attested to his superior physical and mental health and was frequently photographed jogging and conferring with the Vice President. Resigned in Rift With Women
        In 1970 Dr. Berman was forced to resign from the Democratic National Committee's planning council after he enraged women by saying they were unduly affected by physiological factors that limited their leadership ability.
        In 1972 Dr. Berman helped assemble the surgical team that operated on then Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama after he was shot and paralyzed by a bullet that lodged in his spine. Dr. Berman also had other celebrities as patients, including Mae West.
        He was born in Baltimore and was graduated from the University of Maryland and its medical school.
        In World War II Dr. Berman served as a Marine battle surgeon on Guam and Iwo Jima. He later spent two years in Beijing as chief of the Marine Corps Hospital in 1945 and 1946. There, he roomed with the writer John Hersey and talked politics with Chou En-lai.
        Upon his return to the United States, Dr. Berman went into private practice in Baltimore and taught at Johns Hopkins University's School of Medecine from 1946 to 1960.
        As a surgeon, he implanted the first plastic esophagus in a human in 1950, a technique now widely used on cancer patients. In 1957, he performed the first successful heart transplant, on a dog.
        He worked with Dr. Albert Schweitzer in Gabon and Dr. Tom Dooley in Laos, becoming active in the latter's organization, Medico, Medical International Cooperation Organization for modern health care in third world nations. Dr. Berman was president of the organization from 1959 to 1965. Wrote 5 Books in 12 Years
        His involvement led to a deep friendship with Mr. Humphrey, when he was a United States Senator from Minnesota. In 1962 Mr. Humphrey introduced Dr. Berman to President Kennedy, which led to a series of consultancies in Federal agencies, including coordinator of the division of population planning for the Agency for International Development, and coordinator for rural health projects in Central America for the same agency.
        After he withdrew from Democratic Party activities in 1970, Dr. Berman wrote five books in 12 years. In ''The Solid Gold Stethoscope,'' published in 1976, he satirized his own profession.
        His idolization of Mr. Humphrey resulted in ''The Triumph and Tragedy of the Humphrey I Knew.''
        And he achieved some revenge in ''The Compleat Chauvinist: A Survival Guide for the Bedeviled Male,'' published in 1982. Two chapter headings: ''The Brain That's Tame Lies Mainly in the Dame,'' and ''No Runs, No Hits, No ERAs.''
        ''The women all hate me, and the man all think I'm their leader,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1982. He characterized female behavior as ''raging hormones.''
        In ''In Africa With Schweitzer,'' published last year, Dr. Berman reflected on Dr. Albert Schweitzer's humanitarian nature, unflagging energy and dedication.
        When he left politics for writing, Dr. Berman retired to a 50-acre horse farm in Lutherville, Md., where he raised thoroughbreds. He also wrote newspaper columns for the Gannett papers in 1985 and was a regular columnist for USA Today.
        He is survived by his wife, Phoebe Berman of Lutherville and three sisters: Miriam Stulman, Frances Booke and Shirley Patt, all of Baltimore.
      