
       Mayor Harold Washington, who died here today after a heart attack in his office, was one of the nation's most visible symbols of urban black political power, a combative, street-smart politician who in 1983 became the first black to be elected Mayor of Chicago.
        Mayor Harold Washington, who died here today after a heart attack in his office, was one of the nation's most visible symbols of urban black political power, a combative, street-smart politician who in 1983 became the first black to be elected Mayor of Chicago.
        Mr. Washington, who was 65 years old, came to power at City Hall nearly five years ago with a tenuous political manadate, a narrow victory over the Republican, Bernard E. Epton, in an election that had been marked by bitter racial acrimony, and in which the vote was split almost entirely along racial lines.
        The Mayor died, only seven months into his second term, as the city's most powerful leader since the longtime Mayor Richard J. Daley. Mr. Daley died of a heart attack in 1976 while serving his sixth term in office. Impact on Office and City
        Over his four and a half years, Mr. Washington, who had served 15 years as a state legislator and one and a half terms in the United States House of Representatives, used his considerable skills as a politician to consolidate his hold over a fractious City Council and the machinery of the Democratic Party, enabling Chicago to make the bumpy transition from the white machine politics that continued to dominate the city, even after Mr. Daley's death, to the contemporary urban politics of the 1980's.
        He did so by relying primarily on the allegiance of the city's blacks, who make up about 41 percent of Chicago's 3 million residents, and who revered him as a kind of urban folk hero, a product of the city's South Side who was able to achieve what, only a decade before, seemed unattainable.
        At the same time, he challenged and finally overcame his opponents, most of them white, who in the first term of his administration were able to thwart him in the City Council. The period of acrimonious debate and parliamentary deadlock became known locally as the Council Wars. Victory Over His Archfoe
        But after his victory last April, in which he defeated his archfoe, Alderman Edward R. Vrdolyak, by a substantial margin, a number of white politicians, realizing they could not beat Harold Washington, decided they had no choice but to join him.
        Over the last five years, Mr. Washington, a rotund man who appeared to have put on weight since he quit a longtime smoking habit, also emerged as one of the nation's most prominent black politicians and power brokers, and one of the most outspoken urban critics of President Reagan.
        Earlier this year, the Mayor agreed to endorse the Presidential candidacy of the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a civil rights leader who lives in Chicago.
        Although Mr. Washington portrayed himself publicly as a political reformer, who vowed to wean the city of patronage politics and other vestiges of the Daley era, he was himself a product of the very system he eschewed. Early Years in Politics
        The son of a precinct captain, he began his political activity in local ward politics as a teen-ager on Chicago's South Side. As a young state legislator from the city's South Side, he voted the party line in opposing such progressive issues as election reform and merit selection of judges.
        Indeed, he conceded in interviews that he was ''flattered'' by the comparison to Mayor Daley, and at other time jokingly referred to himself as a ''sepia Daley.'' After his election, he retrieved Mr. Daley's desk from the basement of City Hall, where it had been stored, and installed it in his own office.
        His critics said that Mr. Washington's idea of reform was in fact redistribution of political spoils, and when he began reorganizing the City Council after he was re-elected last spring, his foes said he was seeking a Council that was a rubber stamp, as it usually was in the Daley era.
        As the consummate politician, skilled at tailoring his words and his position to suit his short-term needs, he was accused of failing to provide a critical vision for the city. His critics said he was often a stubborn man, who was not beyond playing to race to support his positions. Critics and Admirers
        Eugene Kennedy, a professor at Loyola University who is a biographer of Mayor Daley, wrote in a recent article on Mr. Washington that, under his administration, ''The city is beginning to look uncared for and overgrown, like an old estate whose gardeners take the money and don't mow the lawns.''
        But his admirers say that he helped ease the racial tensions that followed in the wake of his first victory, by working to build alliances with the city's growing population of Hispanic voters, as well as white business leaders.
        In his victory speech after his re-election in April, Mr. Washington said the disparate political forces in the city, which have often divided along racial lines, must unite ''if Chicago is going to remain a world-class city.''
        Among businessmen, he won admiration for his efforts to bring financial stability to Chicago's tangled municipal finances.
        In his first term, he moved to balance the city's budget through layoffs of city workers and a series of tax increases. Earlier this year, as a result of his efforts, the city's major bond ratings were upgraded for the first time in three years, reflecting increased confidence in the city's financial posture. Periods of Controversy
        Harold Washington's rise to power in Chicago was not without controversy. In 1970, the Illinois Supreme Court suspended his law license for a year, after complaints that he had negligently handled several cases.
        Then, a year later, he was indicted for failing to file Federal income tax returns for four years, beginning in 1964. Mr. Washington eventually pleaded no-contest to the charges, paid back taxes and penalties of about $1,500 and served 36 days in jail.
        In a profile on Mr. Washington that appeared in The Chicago Tribune in 1985, the newspaper said that, before he became Mayor, Mr. Washington's life often seemed to be in a kind of hopeless personal disarray, a quality that endeared him to his friends but often frustrated and puzzled others.
        As a lifelong bachelor, Mr. Washington's offices and apartment were often a mess, and his clothes were ill-fitting and out of style. Sometimes he did not pay his bills or answer his mail.
        Harold Washington was born on April 15, 1922, one of 11 children, the son of Roy L. and Bertha Jones Washington. His father was a lawyer, part-time Methodist minister and skilled ward politician. Student and Enlisted Man
        The youth graduated from public high school in Chicago, where in 1939 he won the citywide competition in the high hurdles. He served in the Pacific in World War II as an enlisted man in the Air Force Engineers.
        After the war, he came home to Chicago, receiving a bachelor's degree in political science from Roosevelt University, in the Loop, and a law degree from Northwestern University, where he graduated near the top of his class.
        He worked as an asistant corporation counsel for the city of Chicago from 1954 to 1958, and as an arbitrator for the Illinois Industrial Commission from 1960 to 1964, when he was elected to the state Legislature.
        He served in the State House of Representatives from 1965 to 1976, and in the State Senate from 1976 to 1980. In 1980, he ran as an independent for Congress in the city's First Congressional District, and beat a candidate backed by the Democratic machine. Voting Fight in Congress
        As a freshman Congressmen, Mr. Washington was one of the floor leaders supporting legislation that extended the provisions of the Federal Voting Rights Act, making it easier for blacks in the South to press for changes in voting systems that they believed to be discriminatory.
        Mr. Washington's Congressional seat was a sinecure, and he did not even face an opponent in 1982. As a result, he was reluctant when a group of black political leaders approached him in the summer of 1982, and asked him to run for Mayor.
        But he did go on to run, defeating Mayor Jane M. Byrne and Richard M. Daley, the son of the late Mayor, in the Democratic primary in February. He then defeated Mr. Epton for a narrow victory in the general election.
        Last spring, he carried about 53 percent of the vote in beating both Mr. Vrdolyak, a powerful Democratic Alderman who ran as an independent against Mr. Washington, and a Republican candidate.
        Ebullient over his victory, Mr. Washington vowed at the time: ''I'm going to be Mayor for the next 20 years.''
        Correction:  December 5, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      