
       John F. Scileppi, a former associate justice of the New York State Court of Appeals, died of a heart attack Thursday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 85 years old.
        John F. Scileppi, a former associate justice of the New York State Court of Appeals, died of a heart attack Thursday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 85 years old.
        Justice Scileppi, a resident of Stony Brook who was generally considered a judicial conservative, was the author of a controversial opinion in 1967 that banned the sale in New York state of ''Tropic of Cancer,'' a novel by Henry Miller, on the ground that it was pornographic.
        Yesterday, the Chief Justice of the Court of Appeals, Sol Wachtler, called Justice Scileppi ''an outstanding public servant who gave the people of this state long and faithful service.''
        A native of Corona, Queens, Justice Scileppi graduated from Newtown High School and received his law degree in 1925 from Fordham University.
        After several years in private practice, Mr. Scileppi served as a deputy state attorney general and then as the deputy Queens County clerk. In 1939 he was elected to a seat on the Municipal Court. In 1952 he was elected to the Queens County Court and, four years later, to the State Supreme Court. Banning of Miller Novel
        In 1962, he was elected to the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, on which he served 10 years. After retiring from the high court, he served four more years on the State Supreme Court in Riverhead, L.I.
        In 1963, as the newest member of the Court of Appeals, Justice Scileppi wrote the majority opinion in a 4-to-3 decision that banned Mr. Miller's book. Calling it ''dirt for dirt's sake,'' he wrote that the book was ''devoid of theme or idea'' and that it contained ''a constant repetition of patently offensive words used solely to convey debasing portrayals of natural and unnatural sexual experience.'' The United States Supreme Court later ruled that the book could not be banned.
        Four years later, Judge Scileppi wrote the majority opinion in a 4-to-3 decision that upheld the constitutionality of a state law that required public schools to lend textbooks to parochial and private schools. Ruling on Name Change
        In 1976, after returning to the State Supreme Court bench, he ruled that a woman named Ellen Cooperman did not have the right to change her name to Cooperperson.
        Saying that granting the request ''would have serious repercussions perhaps throughout the entire country,'' the judge cited what he called ''virtually endless and increasingly inane'' possibilities, such as someone named Jackson seeking to become Jackchild or a woman named Carmen wanting to be Carperson.
        Justice Scileppi is survived by his wife, Katherine; two daughters, Kathleen Christman of Setauket, L.I.; and Barbara Nugent of Port Washington, L.I.; a son, John, of Andover, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
        A Mass is scheduled for 1 P.M. Monday at St. James Roman Catholic Church in Setauket. Burial will be in the church cemetery.
      