
       Babe Herman, the popular Brooklyn Dodger star of the 1920's and early 1930's, died Friday at the age of 84. Mr. Herman died of complications from pneumonia and a series of strokes, his son, Charles Robert Herman of Miami, Fla., said.
        Babe Herman, the popular Brooklyn Dodger star of the 1920's and early 1930's, died Friday at the age of 84. Mr. Herman died of complications from pneumonia and a series of strokes, his son, Charles Robert Herman of Miami, Fla., said.
        Floyd Caves Herman batted .324 over a 13-year career that began with Brooklyn in 1926 and concluded - after a seven-year absence from the major leagues - with his return to the Dodgers in a part-time role with the manpower-strapped wartime team of 1945.
        He played with the Cincinnati Reds, the Chicago Cubs, the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Detroit Tigers in between his two stints with Brooklyn and had 1,818 hits over his career.
        It was while Mr. Herman was in the minor leagues that he was given his nickname, at a time when the New York Yankees' Babe Ruth was a star, Mr. Herman's son said.
        ''He was put in to pinch-hit, and the first time he got a hit, the manager of the club said, 'You're my babe,' '' Charles Herman related.  With the Dodgers, he played first base and then center field. Though he was an outstanding hitter, he was perhaps best remembered for what were viewed as his misadventures in the field and on the basepaths. In one game, he was involved in a mixup in which three Brooklyn runners ended up at the same base.
        He set six Brooklyn Dodger records, some of which lasted more than 20 years. They included the most home runs in a season, 35; the highest season batting average, .393, and most total bases, 416.
        He hit .393 in 1930 but did not win the batting crown because Bill Terry of the New York Giants hit .401.
        After his baseball career, Mr. Herman spent 22 years as a scout for various teams.
        At one time, he was baseball's only player to hit a single, double, triple and home run in one game three times in his career, and twice in one year.
        He also had the first home run in a night game while playing with Cincinnati against Brooklyn in 1935.
        Mr. Herman is survived by his wife, Anna, and three children.
      