
       Choo San Goh, the ballet choreographer and associate artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old.
        Choo San Goh, the ballet choreographer and associate artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old.
        Mr. Goh died of complications arising from viral colitis, according to his executor, Daniel T. Richards.
        Mr. Goh gained attention with his first ballets, performed in 1973 and 1975 by the Dutch National Ballet, of which he was then a member. In 1976, he became resident choreographer of the Washington Ballet, under the direction of Mary Day, and was named associate artistic director of the company in 1984. A noted teacher there, he also taught at company schools and festivals around the world.
        Mr. Goh created ballets for the Paris Opera Ballet, the Royal Danish Ballet and ballet and modern dance companies in Australia, Israel, Venezuela, Hong Kong, Chile and Sweden. He also created works for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, American Ballet Theater, Dance Theater of Harlem and the Boston, Joffrey, Houston and Pennsylvania Ballets. Combined Dance Styles
        Mr. Goh combined idioms of modern dance and classical ballet for a streamlined look that was a hallmark of much new ballet in the early 1980's. Talking of ''Configurations,'' created for Ballet Theater in 1982, Mr. Goh described ideal dancers as ''people who move clearly - lyrical dancers with a fine, sharp quality in their line and musicality.'' Though often plotless, his ballets had a strong dramatic undercurrent.
        ''He is intensely musical, and his ballets are all marked by a first-rate command of structure and fluency,'' Anna Kisselgoff, chief dance critic of The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Goh in 1980. ''He concentrates on speed, intricacies of movement, difficult toe work and streamlined partnering. His base is strongly neo-Classical with a sleek contemporary look, incorporating modern-dance idioms and unexpected gestures, wrist rotations, interpolated academic steps that burst out of the usual flow of movement, acrobatic tumbling within a partnering technique and subtle nuances.'' Danced in Variety of Classics
        Born in Singapore, Mr. Goh began his ballet training at 10 at the Singapore Ballet Academy. He continued his ballet studies through high school and at the University of Singapore, while he completed work on a bachelor's degree in biochemistry. He left Singapore in 1970 to join the Dutch National Ballet, where he danced in a wide variety of ballet classics and modern works. Mr. Goh's greatest choreographic influences, he said in 1981, were Rudi van Dantzig, Hans van Manen and Toer van Schayk, three Dutch choreographers.
        Mr. Goh won a choreography award at the International Ballet Competition in Varna, Bulgaria, in 1983, and this year received the Cultural Medallion of Singapore.
        He is survived by his mother, Siew Han Ching Goh, of Singapore, five brothers, and three sisters.
      