
       Joseph Campbell, one of the most knowledgeable writers on mythology and folklore, died Saturday at his home in Hawaii after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and had homes in Honolulu and Greenwich Village.
        Joseph Campbell, one of the most knowledgeable writers on mythology and folklore, died Saturday at his home in Hawaii after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and had homes in Honolulu and Greenwich Village.
        Following an interest sparked in his New York boyhood and nurtured in 38 years on the faculty of Sarah Lawrence College, Mr. Campbell produced an immense body of work, weaving together the legends spun by people across the world and throughout history.
        His scholarship generated classics like ''The Hero With a Thousand Faces'' (1949) and the four-volume ''Masks of God'' (1959-67). Delving into comparative mythology, the latter dealt with the realms of creation, Occidental, Oriental and primitive myths.
        He wrote ''Grimm's Fairy Tales: Folkloristic Commentary'' (1944), ''The Flight of the Wild Gander'' (1969), ''The Mythic Image'' (1975) and ''The Inner Reaches of Outer Space,'' which appeared last year. And he was co-author of ''A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake'' and ''Where the Two Came to Their Father,'' an essay comparing the hero of American Indian legend with the hero as perceived in other cultures. American Indian Lore
        Born in New York City, he discovered American Indian lore in the children's reading room of the New Rochelle public library, next door to the family home. It led him to a lifetime of travel and research plumbing similarities in the myths of widely disparate civilizations.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Campbell was at work on another multivolume opus, ''The Historical Atlas of World Mythology.'' Its first part, ''The Way of the Animal Powers,'' dealing with hunting and gathering societies, was published in 1983.
        According to his publisher, Alfred van der Marck, it sold out and will be reissued, with a second part on early agricultural civilizations, ''The Way of the Seeded Earth,'' scheduled to appear in 1988. Mr. van der Marck said yesterday that Mr. Campbell had ''essentially finished'' the first half of his ''Atlas,'' encompassing primitive cultures, but that the status of the second half, on the mythologies of more advanced societies, remained to be determined.
        Mr. Campbell was the subject of a film biography shown last March in the New Directors/New Films Series at the Museum of Modern Art. Entitled ''A Hero's Journey: The World of Joseph Campbell,'' it is scheduled for general release in December. Interviewed by Moyers
        Bill Moyers, the television journalist, is condensing 23 hours of conversations with Mr. Campbell into six one-hour shows to be broadcast in the spring of 1988 on PBS. Joan Konner, president of Mr. Moyers's production company, said the interviews covered Mr. Campbell's life and thought.
        ''It's basically his ideas on mythology, art, religion, man's spirit and journey, life and death, love and marriage, rites and rituals,'' she said.
        Hearty and robust at 80, Mr. Campbell was celebrated by the National Arts Club in New York in 1985, in the presence of celebrities such as George Lucas, the film maker, and Richard Adams, author of ''Watership Down.'' Mr. Lucas then called Mr. Campbell a person of magic.
        ''If it hadn't been for him,'' he said, ''it's possible I would still be trying to write 'Star Wars' today.''
        Joseph Campbell was born March 26, 1904. His boyhood reading in the New Rochelle library took in the annual reports of the Bureau of Ethnology and the works of Franz Boas, the ethnologist. Arthurian Legends
        He attended Dartmouth, earned two degrees at Columbia and did postgraduate work at the Universities of Paris and Munich before returning to his old preparatory school, the Canterbury School, in 1932 as a teacher of French, German and ancient history.
        He himself recalled that while reading for his M.A. in literature at Columbia, he was struck at how Arthurian legends reflected themes he had encountered in his studies of the American Indian. In Paris, he said, he studied Old French and Provencal but met ''Ulysses.'' And studying Sanskrit and Indo-European philosophy in Munich, he also found Freud, Jung, Thomas Mann, Goethe and Hinduism.
        In 1934 Mr. Campbell joined the department of literature at Sarah Lawrence, where he taught a course on comparative mythology before being granted emeritus status in 1972.
        In 1938, Mr. Campbell married Jean Erdman of Honololu, a member of the Martha Graham dance troupe and an acclaimed choreographer who founded a dance company and school of her own.
        Also surviving is a sister, Alice Campbell Lenning, of Honolulu. Memorial services will be held in New York and San Francisco; dates are to be announced.
      