
       Charles Holland, an American tenor who pursued his career primarily in Europe and was rediscovered by the American avant-garde late in life, died Saturday at his home in Amsterdam. He was 77 years old.
        Charles Holland, an American tenor who pursued his career primarily in Europe and was rediscovered by the American avant-garde late in life, died Saturday at his home in Amsterdam. He was 77 years old.
        Born in Norfolk, Va., Mr. Holland had a promising career in the United States but felt his opportunities limited here because of racial prejudice. In the United States, he sang with Benny Carter's and Fletcher Henderson's jazz bands in the 1930's, appeared in musical theater and had his own radio program on the NBC network.
        He then shifted his emphasis to classical singing, and appeared in Virgil Thomson's ''Four Saints in Three Acts'' and Marc Blitzstein's ''Airborne.'' At his New York recital debut in 1940, Ross Parmenter of The New York Times called him ''a refined and delicate artist with a light voice which was sweet and true.'' Career Prospered in Europe
        Mr. Holland moved to France in 1949. Even after black women were welcomed on American operatic stages, prejudice continued against black men in opera, or so the singers George Shirley, Simon Estes and Mr. Holland himself believed. Prejudice even followed him abroad: In 1961, another American tenor, Eddie Ruhl, was fired by the Norwegian Opera because he refused to share a dressing room with Mr. Holland.
        Still, his career prospered in Europe. He sang on French radio and television, made his debut at the Paris Opera in Mozart's ''Zauberflote'' in 1954, and became the first black singer at the Opera-Comique the following year. His voice having darkened since 1940, he sang Verdi's ''Otello'' in London and appeared throughout Europe in operatic roles and lieder recitals.
        In 1969, Mr. Holland performed in this country for the first time in 20 years. Donal Henahan reported in The Times that he ''sang with considerable power and elegance'' and ''lifted the program into the realm of exciting music.'' But his true comeback to American musical life came only when Dennis Russell Davies met him through Mr. Shirley in 1975. ''I heard this extraordinary voice and this extraordinary story the man has,'' the conductor recalled. Mr. Davies said Mr. Holland was ''the most remarkable artist it has been my good fortune to meet.'' Inspired Laurie Anderson
        Starting in 1977, Mr. Davies brought Mr. Holland to this country for several tours, and made recordings with him. At a 1977 concert in California, the performance artist Laurie Anderson heard Mr. Holland sing Massenet's aria ''O Souverain'' from ''Le Cid,'' which became the inspiration for her hit single, ''O Superman.''
        Mr. Holland's most recent New York appearance was in 1984. ''He sang from a full heart and with a conviction that need not give place to anyone,'' wrote Will Crutchfield in The Times. ''His voice failed him at times; his spirit never.''
        Mr. Holland is survived by his wife, Catherine, and two sons, Charles and Mark.
      