
       Paul K. Cook, one of the country's leading specialists on the Soviet Union, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 62 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Paul K. Cook, one of the country's leading specialists on the Soviet Union, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 62 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mr. Cook, who served in both the State Department and the Library of Congress, was in government more than 30 years, where he became one of the best-known and most respected analysts of internal Soviet politics, charting and predicting the rise and fall of members of the Soviet hierarchy.
        In his position, he remained largely anonymous to the public. His writings were circulated mostly inside government. Before his retirement, in 1985, he helped establish the Soviet Interview Project at the University of Illinois, in which Soviet emigres are interviewed for the insights they can provide on various aspects of Soviet society. Pressed for Advanced Training
        In addition, he was instrumental in formulating a bill, enacted by Congress in 1983, that provides Federal funds for advanced graduate training in Soviet and East European affairs.
        Although he often guessed correctly about the course of Soviet affairs, Mr. Cook was known for a certain humility, and he frequently called attention to the mistakes made in his profession.
        He pointed out to a New York Times interviewer a few years ago, for example, that after Stalin died in 1953, specialists on Soviet affairs dismissed Nikita S. Khrushchev as ''a faceless bureaucrat'' and predicted the elevation of Georgi M. Malenkov, Shortly after these predictions, Mr. Khrushchev became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
        Born in Illinois, Mr. Cook served in the infantry during World War II from 1943 to 1945, then was attached to the War Crimes Commission in Europe after the war.
        He majored in history at Northwestern University, where he was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He then went on to study at the Russian Institute of Columbia University.
        In 1951, Mr. Cook joined the State Department as an intelligence research specialist. He then went to the Library of Congress in 1952 as social science supervisor on Communist affairs.
        In 1962, he was back in the State Department, where in 1964 he became chief of the Intelligence and Research Bureau's internal Soviet affairs division.
        In 1967 he went to Moscow for a two-year tour in the United States Embassy there. In 1975, he was the director of the office of research and analysis on the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. During the Carter Administration, he served as the daily briefer to Marshall D. Shulman, who was a special adviser on Soviet affairs to Secretary of State Cyrus Cyrus R. Vance. 'A National Resource'
        Mr. Shulman said: ''Paul Cook was a national resource. He embodied the institutional memory about the Soviet Union which is to be treasured, and of which we have much too little. His knowledge, his balanced judgment, his strength of character made an enormous contribution. It is part of a passing of a generation of such resources.''
        ''He was an important bridge between the academic community and the research side of the State Department for many years,'' Mr. Shulman added.
        In 1979, Mr. Cook was named special assistant to the State Department's Director of Intelligence and Research, a position he held until he retired in 1985. After that, he was a consultant to the Soviet Interview Project.
        Mr. Cook was also a founding member of the Washington chapter of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, was its third president and served on its national board of directors.
        He is survived by his wife, Molly Kim Cook; a son, Wilson, and three daughters, Patricia, Tracy and Liese. Services are to be held at Arlington National Cemetery at a time to be announced.
      