
       Galo Plaza Lasso, a former President of Ecuador who later served as Secretary General of the Organization of American States, died yesterday in Quito. He was 80 years old.
        Galo Plaza Lasso, a former President of Ecuador who later served as Secretary General of the Organization of American States, died yesterday in Quito. He was 80 years old.
        Announcing his death, the Ecuadorian Information Ministry said he had died of a heart attack at a hospital, where he had been taken after suffering from cardiac problems.
        Mr. Plaza, who was born in New York when his father was a diplomat here and who was educated in the United States, was President from 1948 to 1952. In 1968, after having held international diplomatic posts, he became head of the O.A.S.
        Throughout his career, he was a friend of the United States. He was an outspoken opponent of ''striped pants'' diplomacy, preferring to speak directly and with frankness, often to the consternation of his colleagues. Attended U.S. Colleges
        Mr. Plaza's father, Gen. Leonidas Plaza, had served the first of two terms as President of Ecuador and was Minister to the United States when the son was born here. After schooling in Quito, young Galo was sent to the University of California, where he was on the football team, and then to the University of Maryland, where he received a degree in agronomy, and to the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Washington, where he got a degree in diplomacy.
        An athlete, he also played basketball and was an amateur bullfighter. In later life, he was an avid golfer.
        Called back to Ecuador in 1930 to run the family's cattle-breeding ranch, he became active in politics. In 1938 he was appointed Minister of War and in 1944 he became Ambassador to the United States. Three years later he formed a liberal political group, the Independent Citizens Party, and was elected to Congress. Missions for the U.N.  After a period of turmoil in Ecuador, he was elected President in 1948. Prohibited by the Constitution from succeeding himself, he returned to managing his family's landholdings until called on to perform a series of missions for the United Nations.
        In 1958 he headed an observation group during a rebellion in Lebanon. Two years later he was sent to the Congo to study the question of foreign bases there.
        After his service with the O.A.S., Mr. Plaza assumed the role of elder statesman in Ecuador. He counseled moderation when Ecuador's internal affairs became turbulent, and he was a strong voice for peacekeeping efforts of international bodies.
        Mr. Plaza is survived by his wife, Rosario Pallares, and by five daughters and one son.
      