
       Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall, an authority on tropical diseases and a former vice president and trustee of the University of Chicago, died Wednesday at the South Baldwin Hospital in Foley, Ala. He was 86 years old and lived in Foley.
        Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall, an authority on tropical diseases and a former vice president and trustee of the University of Chicago, died Wednesday at the South Baldwin Hospital in Foley, Ala. He was 86 years old and lived in Foley.
        For more than 20 years, from the early 1940's to the mid-1960's when he retired, Dr. Coggeshall pursued a dual career as an administrator and as a scientific investigator, specializing in malaria and other tropical diseases.
        His work at the University of Chicago and, briefly, at the University of Michigan was frequently interrupted by Government service, most notably in the Eisenhower Administration, when he was a special assistant for medical affairs to the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. Wartime Work on Diseases
        As a captain in the Navy medical corps in World War II, Dr. Coggeshall earned the Gorgas Medal of the Association of Military Surgeons for his work in preventive medicine and treatment of tropical diseases among American servicemen.
        Dr. Coggeshall's interest in tropical diseases began in the 1920's when he was a biology student and was sent into the swamps of Georgia by the Rockefeller Foundation's international health board. He was a special member of the board's staff.
        He was born May 7, 1901, in Saratoga, Ind. He earned his undergraduate, graduate and medical degrees from the University of Indiana. After college, Dr. Coggeshall worked for five years at the University of Chicago in several teaching posts and rose to the position of secretary of its department of medicine. University of Chicago Dean
        He worked again on tropical diseases for the Rockefeller Foundation and for a year he was chairman of the department of tropical diseases at the University of Michigan.
        After World War II, he returned to the University of Chicago, becoming dean of the division of biological sciences in 1947. In 1960, he became a vice president of the university and, two years later a trustee. He retired in 1966.
        Dr. Coggeshall is survived by his wife, Rebecca; a son, Richard, of Galveston, Tex.; two daughters, Diane Zink of Orange, Calif., and Carol Govan of Weston, Mass.; two brothers, Warren of Indianapolis and Howard of Dallas; a sister, Esther Stokes of Ramsey, Ill., and nine grandchidren.
      