
       Roger Lewis, a former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, chairman of the General Dynamics Corporation and the first president of Amtrak, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old. Mr. Lewis' career, which began in 1934 in the sheet metal shop of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, took him over the next 40 years to top jobs in aviation, aerospace, military contracting, railroading and the Federal
        Roger Lewis, a former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, chairman of the General Dynamics Corporation and the first president of Amtrak, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old. Mr. Lewis' career, which began in 1934 in the sheet metal shop of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, took him over the next 40 years to top jobs in aviation, aerospace, military contracting, railroading and the Federal Government.
        Along the way he drew both plaudits and brickbats, especially in his management years at General Dynamics, the military contractor, and the National Railway Passenger Corporation, as Amtrak was formally known when it was established in 1971. Railroads in His Upbringing
        When he became president of Amtrak that year, it was pointed out that he had no experience in rail transportation. In one sense that was not quite true. As a boy in California he grew up in a railroad atmosphere: His father was a passenger agent for a branch of the Union Pacific Railroad.
        His longest business association was with Lockheed, where he rose from metal shop worker to assistant sales manager before leaving in 1947 to become vice president of Canadair Ltd. in Montreal. It was Canada's biggest aircraft producer and some years later it was acquired by General Dynamics.
        Mr. Lewis' next longest association, one that began auspiciously and ended with his ouster, was the nine years he spent as chairman, president and chief executive officer of General Dynamics. Between 1962 and 1971 he first saved the military contracting giant from the serious financial difficulties he had been brought in to cure - only to see the same troubles reappear at the end of the decade and cost him his job. Jersey to Washington
        In between, he held top-level positions with the Curtiss-Wright Corporation in New Jersey, the Air Force in Washington and Pan American World Airways in New York, where reports had it he would have succeeded the legendary Juan Trippe as president if he had not been lured away by General Dynamics.
        Roger Lewis was born Jan. 11, 1912 in Los Angeles. After graduating from Stanford University, of which he became a trustee in later years, he went to work in Lockheed's sheet metal shop.
        Over the next 13 years, he rose to more responsible jobs in production control, purchasing and sales before going to Canada in 1947. During World War II, he was Lockheed's director of materiel and helped maintain a steady flow of vital aircraft to the Air Force. By 1950, Mr. Lewis was back in the United States as vice president in charge of sales and management with Curtiss-Wright, but by 1953 he was on the move again, to Washington.
        There he served as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force in charge of procurement and materiel until 1955. He was awarded the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, by President Eisenhower for his contributions to the military aircraft and ballistic missile programs. Courted by General Dynamics
        Mr. Lewis' Government service was followed by seven years with Pan American where, as executive vice president for administration, he directed many phases of the airline's operations, including its guided missiles range division and other national defense projects.
        Among those instrumental in wooing Mr. Lewis to General Dynamics in 1962 was Henry Crown, a Chicago financier-industrialist who, four years later, was forced to relinquish his majority holdings in the company by Mr. Lewis and others. But by 1970, with General Dynamics again in financial trouble as a result of problems with its F-111 jet fighter fighter and its Quincy, Mass., surface-ship shipyard, Mr. Crown had regained control of the company and Mr. Lewis was on his way out.
        Mr. Lewis' next job, as the first president of Amtrak from 1971 to 1975, took him back to Washington and to more controversy. He faced considerable criticism, both in Congress and around the country, for its operating deficits and for the disappearance of half the passenger-train services linking cities after Amtrak took them over in May 1971.
        In his last years, Mr. Lewis was involved in a number of ventures including a Wall Street brokerage, a telephone systems manufacturer and a small California Company associated with a Finnish paper maker.
        Mr. Lewis's wife, the former Elly Thummler of the Netherlands, whom he married in 1938, died in 1984. He is survived by a son, Ronald of East Hampton, L.I., two daughters, Gail Tobin of Kent, Conn., and Pamela Casey of West Hartford, Conn.; two sisters, Virginia Ehrisman of Ventura, Calif.,and Margery Hanson of Escondido, Calif.; a brother, Marshall of Reseda, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      