
       Lansing Warren, a former correspondent for The New York Times in Paris, died of a heart ailment Saturday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 93 years old and had lived in Pasadena since 1980.
        Lansing Warren, a former correspondent for The New York Times in Paris, died of a heart ailment Saturday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 93 years old and had lived in Pasadena since 1980.
        Mr. Warren was born in Waukegan, Ill., on June 17, 1894. He received his bachelor's degree from Stanford University in 1917 and served for 23 months as an ambulance driver in France during World War I. For his work, he was awarded the French Carte de Combattan and Croix de Guerre.
        Returning to California in 1919, he became news editor and practically the whole editorial staff of The Watsonville Register. In 1920 and 1921, he worked for The Santa Barbara Morning Press, The San Diego Sun and The United Press in San Francisco. After being transferred to Los Angeles as bureau manager in May 1922, he covered a Ku Klux Klan murder case in Inglewood, Calif., and the prosecution of Rudolph Valentino for bigamy.
        He left for Europe at the end of 1922 to work on the European edition of The Chicago Tribune. Arrested by The Nazis
        In 1926, Edwin L. James, the Paris bureau chief of The New York Times, hired him. He covered assignments that took him to Geneva, Rome and Spain. He also followed the French Government as it moved to Bordeaux and later to Vichy, where he got an advance tip on the arrest, on Dec. 13, 1940, of Pierre Laval, the former Prime Minister of France who was later executed for treason. But the Government cut off communications. Mr. Warren sent a courier to Switzerland with his story, but the courier was arrested at the border.
        Finally, he dispatched a message to Berne saying that Laval had left his hotel but not in his own car. The Times's correspondent there, Daniel Brigham, understood the message and filed a story about Laval's arrest.
        In November 1942, Mr. Warren and his wife were arrested by the Nazis, along with other American correspondents, consular officers and Red Cross workers. The Warrens were held in Lourdes and later in Baden-Baden, Germany. To stave off boredom, the prisoners organized a ''university'' in which some taught and others studied. Thanks to a sharp memory and a few English books, Mr. Warren taught English literature. He studied Italian.
        After his release in March 1944, he filed a story on the diplomats' 16-month internment. But the transmission circuit broke down, and he arrived in New York ahead of his story. He worked in the Washington bureau for a year, returning to Paris when the bureau there reopened in October 1945.
        In 1955, in appreciation of his services as a ''friend of France,'' the French Government awarded him the Croix de Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
        Mr. Warren retired in 1956. He is survived by a sister, Mary S. Milbank of Pasadena, and four nieces.
      