
       Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died of a heart attack Sunday in Montreal. He was 65 years old.
        Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died of a heart attack Sunday in Montreal. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Levesque was taken by ambulance to Montreal General Hospital from his home, where he had been entertaining friends. He was declared dead at the hospital. A state funeral was scheduled for Thursday in Quebec City.  Mr. Levesque stepped down as Premier in 1985 after the separatist party he helped to found and led to power in the province, the Parti Quebecois, suffered a sharp fall in popularity.
        After leaving politics, he resumed his earlier career as a journalist and commentator, and before his death was presenting a regular current-affairs program on a Montreal radio station and appearing occasionally on television. #Separatist Party Ousted# After his resignation in 1985, the Parti Quebecois, under the new leadership of Pierre-Marc Johnson, lost a provincial election by a landslide to the Liberal Party.
        The Liberals, under Premier Robert Bourassa, reopened negotiations with the federal Government in Ottawa and last June concluded a constitutional agreement under which Quebec committed itself to remain part of Canada in an arrangement that will recognize the province as a ''distinct society.''
        For Mr. Levesque, the defeat of the separatist cause had come earlier, in a referendum he called as Premier in 1980. Although the Parti Quebecois was broadly popular in the province, the intervention of Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau helped defeat a proposal backed by the party that Quebec negotiate a new arrangement, known as sovereignty-association, with the rest of Canada.
        The idea was that Quebec and Canada would be independent nations, linked in an economic common market. But Quebec voters rejected the idea by a ratio of 3 to 2, and Mr. Levesque later persuaded a majority in the Parti Quebecois that the pursuit of independence should be set aside, for the time being at least.
        The ensuing dispute in the party, coupled with a widespread feeling that it was losing its ability to govern the province effectively, led to pressure for Mr. Levesque's resignation as party leader and Premier. #Tributes From Ex-Opponents# In tributes to the former separatist leader today, many English-speaking political leaders said he had performed a service by making the country face up to Quebec's political aspirations.
        Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, a native of the province, issued a statement praising him as ''the great champion for Quebec.'' The official opposition leader in Parliament, John Turner, said, ''He forced Canadians to come to terms with Quebec's place in Canada.''
        Mr. Trudeau described him as a man who had fought for his principles and added> ''He believed that he expressed an aspect of the French Canadian state of mind. The man played an important role in history.''
        Even among political adversaries, Mr. Levesque was widely liked. A slightly built man, with bustling energy and a cigarette constantly dangling from his fingers, he shunned the privileges of office and showed no bitterness at the defeat of his independence campaign. #Personal Embarrassments# But the last decade of his life was marked by a number of personal embarrassments and disappointments. In 1977, while he was Premier, a car he was driving hit and killed a man who was lying drunk in the street late at night in Montreal. The police investigated and decided not to place charges, but because Mr. Levesque had been to a party and was accompanied by his secretary, whom he later married after divorcing his first wife, the incident attracted attention to his personal life to a degree that was unusual for Canadian politicians.
        Last year, the publication of his memoirs caused him difficulty when he acknowledged that the book's statement that he witnessed the surrender of Hermann Goring on a remote road in southern Germany in 1945 was untrue.
        He later adopted an unusually low profile for a former Premier, traveling extensively abroad. When he returned to Quebec, he attracted little attention.
        When French-speaking nations held a summit meeting in Quebec, the provincial capital, two months ago, Mr. Levesque was pointedly excluded from official banquets. He attended the gathering as a reporter, sitting in the back row during news conferences. #Father Was a Lawyer# Mr. Levesque was born in New Carlisle on the Gaspe Peninsula of Quebec on Aug. 24, 1922, to French Canadian parents. The son of a lawyer, he went to law school at Laval University in Quebec but later dropped out.
        During World War II, he worked as a war correspondent attached to the United States Seventh Army and as an interpreter between American and Free French forces, covering the liberation of the Dachau concentration camp, among other major events.
        In the years after the war, Mr. Levesque was one of a group of young Quebec intellectuals who set about challenging the political dynasty of Maurice Duplessis, who ruled Quebec in close liaison with the Roman Catholic Church for nearly 20 years until his death in 1959.
        As a radio commentator with the French-language service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and later as head of the French network's radio and televison news service, Mr. Levesque became one of Quebec's most influential commentators.
        In 1959, he joined the province's Liberal Party and held a series of ministerial posts in the Quebec government. Among other things, he was responsible for decisions to nationalize electric utlities and to impose new standards on what had been a notoriously corrupt political system.
        By the mid-1960's, however, Mr. Levesque had parted company with a number of his former friends and associates over the issue of Quebec's future in Canada. One of these friends was Mr. Trudeau, then a Montreal law professor, and much of the next 20 years in both men's careers was devoted to battling over the issue.
        Although Mr. Levesque lost on the independence issue, the Parti Quebecois, which he helped found in 1967 and led to power in the province nine years later, took several popular measures to strengthen French language and culture and to shore up the province's powers in the areas of education and social welfare. #Instituted Language Law# Among these was a law, fiercely opposed by Mr. Trudeau, that formalized the status of French as Quebec's only official language and severely restricted the use of English in the workplace, in government and on signs displayed in public.
        The Levesque government also enacted a number of popular measures that were not directly associated with its concerns about French culture, including automobile insurance and the abolition of secret electoral financing.
        But its popularity was undermined by austerity measures introduced in 1982, when overspending on social programs caused a financial crisis.
        At the time of Mr. Levesque's death, the Parti Quebecois remained in the political doldrums, badly split on the independence issue, with only a rump membership in the provincial legislature, and with its ties to labor unions, once its strongest source of support, badly eroded.
        Mr. Johnson, the party's leader, has said that he will not press the independence issue in the next election, expected in 1990, but that the party's commitment to ultimate separation from Canada will not be abandoned.
        Mr. Levesque is survived by his wife, the former Corinne Cote, and by two sons and a daughter by his first marriage.
      