
       Arthur H. Dean, the lawyer-diplomat who tried to arrange a post-Korean War peace conference with the Chinese at the request of President Eisenhower in 1953, and who served as a negotiator on disarmament and other matters for three other Presidents, died of pneumonia yesterday at the Community Hospital at Glen Cove, L.
        Arthur H. Dean, the lawyer-diplomat who tried to arrange a post-Korean War peace conference with the Chinese at the request of President Eisenhower in 1953, and who served as a negotiator on disarmament and other matters for three other Presidents, died of pneumonia yesterday at the Community Hospital at Glen Cove, L. I. He was 89 years old and lived in Oyster Bay, L. I. Mr. Dean succeeded John Foster Dulles as senior partner in the prestigious New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell in 1949, when Mr. Dulles was elected a United States Senator. He had joined the firm in 1923 after graduation from Cornell Law School.
        While a young partner in 1933, Mr. Dean had his first taste of Government service. At the request of President Roosevelt, he worked on the Department of Commerce committee that recommended the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the passage of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. He later had a hand in drafting the Bankruptcy Act of 1938, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and the Investment Company Act of 1940. Urged Johnson to End Bombing
        Over more than three decades, Mr. Dean served as a negotiator and adviser to Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Johnson. He was credited with helping to persuade Lyndon B. Johnson to stop the bombing of North Vietnam in 1968 and to not seek re-election.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Dean served as chief of the delegation to the talks that eventually produced a partial nuclear test-ban treaty in 1963, which was worked out by W. Averell Harriman.
        But the task that won Mr. Dean international renown as a stubbornly patient and courageous negotiator was probably one of the dreariest, most vexing and wearisome jobs in modern diplomatic history - that of negotiating with the Chinese and North Koreans at Panmunjom, in the demilitarized zone of Korea, for seven weeks in 1953.
        President Eisenhower, at the behest of Mr. Dulles, Mr. Dean's old law firm mentor and by then Secretary of State, had appointed Mr. Dean a Special Deputy Secretary of State, with the rank of ambassador. He was given the difficult assignment, on behalf of the United States and the 16 other nations whose troops had formed the United Nations Command, of conducting post-armistice talks with the Communist side at Panmunjom. Chief Delegate at Panmunjom
        Mr. Dean served as chief representative for the United Nations Command, which had been formed to aid South Korea when it was invaded in 1950 by Communist forces from North Korea, later to be joined by Chinese troops. He hoped to negotiate the release of prisoners and to set up a political conference envisaged by the cease-fire agreement.
        On Sept. 15, 1953, in a tent placed across the 38th parallel of latitude in the freezing mountains of the central Korean peninsula, the endless and, ultimately, fruitless discussions began. Mr. Dean won instant admiration for his characteristic optimism that success would be achieved. Against the stern-faced Communists he was by turns reasonable, stormy, plaintive and cold.
        ''He was like pom-poms, firing off verbal rockets,'' a colleague at Panmunjom said. ''He used every courtroom technique he knew.'' But for the most part, Mr. Dean's verbal rockets failed to have any effect on the imperturbable negotiators opposite him at the conference table. At one point, Mr. Dean cried out in frustration: ''Don't you listen to me? Don't you hear what I say?''
        Mr. Dean became convinced the Communist side did not, at that time, want a permanent peace. After they rejected his offer that a political conference be held within 48 days after the preliminary conference ended, the talks were broken off and he returned to the United States.
        In a report to the American people Mr. Dean said that the ''Chinese Communists are determined to keep North Korea politically and economically integrated into their own economy. They believe that at a long drawn-out conference the American negotiators will be forced by public opinion to give in in order to have a successful conference.'' Praise From Eisenhower
        President Eisenhower, who lavishly praised him for his efforts at Panmunjom, was to call on him for further service in years to come.
        Arthur Hobson Dean, the son of William Cameron Dean, a Cornell Law School professor, and the former Maud Egan, was born in Ithaca, N. Y. on Oct. 16, 1898. He went to Ithaca High School and then to Cornell University, where he earned expenses by working as a hotel night clerk and a bank bookkeeper. He left the university in World War I and served in the Navy, then returned to Cornell to complete his undergraduate studies in 1921. At Cornell Law School he was managing editor of the Law Quarterly and received his law degree in 1923. Admitted to the bar that same year, he joined Sullivan & Cromwell, a firm that specialized in international law. Work on Overseas Transactions
        His skills as a negotiator developed from the start of his legal career, when he was chosen by Mr. Dulles to assist in negotiations in Paris, Berlin, Rome, Milan and London on the security issues and business transactions that followed the Dawes Plan loans to alleviate Germany's financial plight. In 1927 and 1928 he went to Japan to work out the first open-end mortgage in that country, a $9 billion bond issue of the Nippon Power Company, which was offered to the American public.
        That triumph won the young lawyer a full partnership in Sullivan & Cromwell in 1929. As an ''office lawyer,'' he advised public utilities, railroads, hospitals, and private businesses on a wide variety of problems. As a trial lawyer, Mr. Dean's best-known litigation was the Investment Bankers Act antitrust case, U. S. vs. Morgan, in which he acted as lead counsel for the 17 defendants. For many years he was chief counsel to Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, now Exxon. Law of the Sea Delegate
        Mr. Dean served President Eisenhower in 1958 and 1960 as chief of delegation at an 88-nation conference on the Law of the Sea. He led the fight against an effort by Soviet-bloc and other nations to establish what he considered an excessive increase in the limit of the internationally recognized territorial sea.
        Although the United States compromise proposal of a six-mile limit failed to gain approval, a number of agreements were reached on fisheries, the high seas, the continental shelf, and the right of landlocked countries to have access to the sea.
        President Kennedy appointed Mr. Dean chief of the U. S. delegation to the nuclear test ban negotiations and the 18-nation disarmament conference at Geneva in 1961 and 1962. The test-ban negotiations led to the signing of a partial nuclear test ban treaty in Moscow on Aug. 5, 1963.
        Mr. Dean, a Republican, was called on by another Democrat, President Johnson, to become founding co-chairman of the Lawyers Committee for Equal Rights Under the Law, a watchdog body that oversaw compliance with the Civil Rights Act of 1965. He also counseled President Johnson in his darkest days of agonizing over Vietnam. Philanthropist and Flower Lover
        Mr. Dean, who sat on the boards of dozens of companies and philanthropic organizations and was board chairman of Cornell University for 10 years, was married in 1932 to the former Mary Talbott Clark Marden. The couple collected in many areas, including Americana and rare books. They made it possible for Cornell to obtain the Arthur H. and Mary Marden Dean Collection, a vast archive of manunscripts and printed material dealing with the public career of the Marquis de Lafayette, who served as one of Washington's generals in the Revolutionary War.
        An avid horticulturist and gardener, Mr. Dean made his estate in Oyster Bay a flower-lover's showplace. At Siasconcet, on Nantucket, where the Deans maintained a summer home, he created a wildlife sanctuary around Sesachacha Pond. The Deans' book-lined Manhattan apartment abounded with plants and flowers.
        Mr. Dean, who was senior partner of Sullivan & Cromwell for 23 years, retired as a partner in 1976.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their son, Nicholas B.M. Dean, of North Edgecomb, Me.; their daughter, Patricia D. Manolis, of Brookville, L. I.; eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M. Thursday at St. John's Episcopal Church in Cold Spring Harbor, L. I.
      