
       William Lewis Greene, an aeronautical and civil engineer whose security clearance was denied in the early 1950's, resulting in two important Supreme Court decisions, died of a heart attack Dec. 9 at his home in Bath, Me. He was 71 years old.  Mr. Greene was an executive with a Navy contractor until 1951 when, as a result of the denial of his security clearance by the Defense Department, he was forced to leave.
        William Lewis Greene, an aeronautical and civil engineer whose security clearance was denied in the early 1950's, resulting in two important Supreme Court decisions, died of a heart attack Dec. 9 at his home in Bath, Me. He was 71 years old.  Mr. Greene was an executive with a Navy contractor until 1951 when, as a result of the denial of his security clearance by the Defense Department, he was forced to leave. He worked as an architect's draughtsman for several years until he shifted to civil engineering and became president of Texfab, a concrete panel manufacturer.
        Meanwhile Mr. Greene's case, Greene v. McElroy, went to the Supreme Court. He said the denial of the right to confront witnesses against him violated his constitutional rights.
        The Court ruled in June 1959 that, in the absence of explicit authorization from either the President or Congress, the secretaries of the armed forces were not authorized to deprive Mr. Greene of his job in a proceeding in which he was not afforded the safeguards of confrontation and cross-examination.
        He then brought a second suit to recover the loss of earnings resulting from the revocation of his security clearance, and won that case, too.
        In the mid-1960's Mr. Greene founded a consulting concern, William L. Green Engineers, in Annapolis, Md., and remained with it as president until he retired in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Skinner; a daughter, Diane, of Berkeley, Calif.; three sons, Dr. Robert Greene of Duxbury, Mass., Walter Greene of Arnold, Md., and Michael Greene of Norfolk, Va., and three grandchildren.
      