
       Albert P. Morano, a Republican who represented the Fourth Congressional District of Connecticut from 1951 to 1959, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Albert P. Morano, a Republican who represented the Fourth Congressional District of Connecticut from 1951 to 1959, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        ''He was remarkable in that he came from a background as a first-generation American, and he ended up being a U.S. Congressman,'' said the Greenwich First Selectman, John Margenot. ''He was a role model and example for many Italians.''
        Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., Republican of Connecticut, got his start in politics by managing one of Mr. Morano's Congressional campaigns. ''He was a people's Congressman of great credit to Greenwich and Connecticut,'' Senator Weicker said in a statement.  Encouraged Luce to Run Mr. Morano was born in Paterson, N.J., grew up in Greenwich and was among the Republicans who persuaded Clare Booth Luce to run for Congress. He worked as her Congressional secretary from 1943 to 1947.
        Before running for Congress himself, Mr. Morano was unemployment commissioner for the Fourth District from 1947 to 1950. He became chairman of the State Unemployment Commission in 1948.
        After Mr. Morano lost his bid for a fifth term in 1958, he clashed with other Republicans in Fairfield County over control of the party. He resigned from the Greenwich Republican Town Committee and later took a job as an assistant to Senator Thomas J. Dodd, a Democrat.
        He returned to the Republican Party in 1971.
        Mr. Morano is survived by his wife, Millicent; a son, Anthony, of Sylvania, Ohio; a brother, Eugene, of Norwalk; two sisters, Josephine Ritch of Greenwich and Stella Rodgers of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
        A funeral has been scheduled for 9 A.M. tomorrow at the Castiglione Funeral Home in Greenwich, to be followed by a Mass of Christian Burial at 9:30 A.M. at St. Roch's Roman Catholic Church.
      