
       Bernard Cardinal Alfrink, the Archbishop Emeritus of Utrecht, who led the Dutch Roman Catholic Church through a stormy period in the 1960's and '70's, died Thursday in Nieuwegein, the Netherlands. He was 87 years old.
        Bernard Cardinal Alfrink, the Archbishop Emeritus of Utrecht, who led the Dutch Roman Catholic Church through a stormy period in the 1960's and '70's, died Thursday in Nieuwegein, the Netherlands. He was 87 years old.
        During his primacy, the Dutch church advocated marriage for priests. It also took liberal positions on birth control, which it left to individual discretion, and the virginity of Mary, which it ignored.
        As a mediator between the Vatican and his flock, Cardinal Alfrink sponsored the Dutch Pastoral Council to improve communication between bishops, priests and laymen. A Man in the Middle
        In 1969, Cardinal Alfrink mediated between Pope Paul VI and Dutch Roman Catholics who openly criticized the Pope's rejection of artificial contraception.
        Observers called the criticism, in the form of a written declaration, the boldest challenge to the authority of the Vatican from a national church in modern times.
        The Cardinal, advising Dutch Catholics not to ''say anything that cuts off the dialogue in the church,'' persuaded an assembly to substitute a less harsh draft that criticized the Papal ban.
        In doing so, however, Cardinal Alfrink faced protests at home, particularly from youth delegates, who were beginning to call the church irrelevant. Attacked by Catholics
        The declaration was met by official silence in Rome and there was talk about a serious split between the Roman Catholic Church of the Netherlands and the Holy See.
        Once known as an unbending conservative cardinal, he was soon attacked as a radical by other Catholics who supported the Pope.
        Born July 5, 1900, in Nijkerk, he was ordained in 1924 and studied in Rome and Jerusalem. He earned a doctorate at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome.
        He was a professor at the University of Nijmegen. In 1955 he became Archbishop of Utrecht and the chief Roman Catholic prelate. He was elevated to Cardinal in 1960 by Pope John XXIII.
        As a member of the preparatory commission for the Second Vatican Council in the early 1960's, Cardinal Alfrink became known for representing his country's liberal views. He said birth control was a matter of personal choice and urged condemnation of the use of nuclear weapons. He retired in 1975.
      