
       Dr. Otto Nathan, an economist who served as executor and co-trustee of the estate of Albert Einstein, died of heart failure Tuesday at Van Etten Hospital in the Bronx. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Otto Nathan, an economist who served as executor and co-trustee of the estate of Albert Einstein, died of heart failure Tuesday at Van Etten Hospital in the Bronx. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Nathan, who was born July 15, 1893, in Bigen, Germany, was an economic adviser to the Weimar Republic from 1920 to 1933. He served as a German delegate to the World Economic Conference in Geneva in 1927.
        With the rise of Hitler to power, Dr. Nathan fled to the United States, where he joined the faculty of Princeton University in the economics department. It was at Princeton that he began his friendship with Dr. Einstein.
        Dr. Nathan was the sole executor of Dr. Einstein's estate after the scientist's death in 1955 and was co-trustee of his literary property along with Dr. Einstein's secretary, Helen Dukas, who died in 1982.
        In the last three decades of his life, Dr. Nathan's primary interest was the Einstein archive, which he trebled in size. The archive was turned over to the Hebrew University of Israel in 1982.
        Dr. Nathan, who earned doctorates in economics and law at Freiburg and Munich Universities, taught economics at Princeton, New York University, Howard University and Vassar College. He also served as a consultant on economic literature to the Library of Congress.
        In the mid-1950's, Dr. Nathan had difficulty obtaining a passport and later became a target of the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        He declined to answer questions from the committee, saying he believed that ''no Congressional committee has the right to inquire into the political beliefs of American citizens.''
        In 1955, he forced the State Department, by court action, to grant him a passport after he swore that he had never been a member of the Communist Party. And in 1957, he won an acquittal on a contempt of Congress charge stemming from the confrontation with the House committee.
        Dr. Nathan was the author of numerous books, including ''The Nazi Economic System: Germany's Mobilization for War,'' and ''Nazi War Finance and Banking,'' both in 1944. He also helped Heinz Horden write ''Einstein on Peace'' in 1961.
        Dr. Nathan, who became a naturalized citizen in 1939, is survived by a niece, Doris Nathan, of Manhattan.
      