
       Carl E. McGowan, a senior judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, died yesterday of cancer at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old.
        Carl E. McGowan, a senior judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, died yesterday of cancer at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old.
        Judge McGowan was appointed by President Kennedy in 1963. In 1973, he voted with the majority in a 5-to-2 decision ordering President Nixon to turn over disputed White House tape recordings made after the Watergate break-in. In 1982, Judge McGowan wrote the opinion rejecting Mr. Nixon's attempt to keep portions of some 6,000 hours of tapes from being made public.
        Carl Eugene McGowan was born on May 7, 1911, in Hymera, Ind., and grew up in Paris, Ill. He graduated from Dartmouth College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and from Columbia Law School, which he attended on a full scholarship.
        He worked for the Manhattan law firm now known as Debevoise & Plimpton from 1936 to 1939, when he joined the faculty of the Northwestern School of Law in Evanston, Ill. Adviser to Stevenson
        After the United States entered World War II, he enlisted in the Naval Reserve and was assigned to the Navy Department in Washington.
        Judge McGowan returned to Northwestern in 1948, but left in 1949 to serve as an administrative assistant to Gov. Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois. Judge McGowan helped organize his 1952 Presidential campaign.
        Judge McGowan delivered the eulogy at Stevenson's funeral at the National Cathedral in Washington in 1965.
        Judge McGowan moved to Chicago and joined Ross, McGowan, Hardies & O'Keefe after Stevenson's term as Governor ended in 1953.
        In 1981, he became the Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals, serving in that post until he reached age 70 later that year. He then became a senior judge.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Josephine Vail Perry; three daughters, Mary McGowan Davis, of Manhattan; Rebecca McGowan, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Hope McGowan, of Denver; a son, John H. McGowan of San Antonio, and three grandchildren.
      