
       Izler Solomon, music director of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra from 1955 to 1975, years that saw significant expansion and enhanced status come to that ensemble, died of heart failure Dec. 6 in Fort Wayne, Ind., where he lived. He was 77 years old.
        Izler Solomon, music director of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra from 1955 to 1975, years that saw significant expansion and enhanced status come to that ensemble, died of heart failure Dec. 6 in Fort Wayne, Ind., where he lived. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Solomon, who was born in St. Paul, Minn., studied the violin in New York City and made successful concert appearances in his teens. He later studied and taught at Michigan State University, and assumed the directorship of the Lansing Symphony from 1931 to 1936. He conducted several Midwestern orchestras in the 1930's and 40's, and made guest appearances with many other American ensembles. He was the first conductor to lead the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra - which had been known as the Palestine Symphony Orchestra - after the statehood of Israel was proclaimed.
        The conductor came in 1955 to what was then the Indiana State Symphony Society, having appeared in the state both at the helm of the touring Israeli orchestra and as a guest conductor of the local symphony. He retained the Indiana State post until 1975, when he became conductor emeritus. Led a Milhaud Premiere
        Mr. Solomon also continued to make guest appearances throughout America and abroad, touring again with the Israel Philharmonic in 1958 and conducting often at summer festivals. He was music director of the Flagstaff Festival in Arizona, and led the American premiere of Darius Milhaud's opera ''David'' at the Hollywood Bowl in 1957.
        He also made New York appearances with the Symphony of the Air, the New York Philharmonic, and several smaller groups, and his recordings include the Mozart ''Sinfonia Concertante'' with Jascha Heifetz and William Primrose as soloists.
        He is survived by his son, David Solomon, also of Fort Wayne.
      