
       John Francis O'Leary, chairman of the General Public Utilities Corporation and deputy secretary of energy in the Carter Administration, died Saturday at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia after a brief illness. He was 61 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J.
        John Francis O'Leary, chairman of the General Public Utilities Corporation and deputy secretary of energy in the Carter Administration, died Saturday at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia after a brief illness. He was 61 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J.
        Mr. O'Leary, who had served in various Government positions under four Presidents, became associated with General Public Utilities, based in Parsippany, N.J., with his election to the board of directors in October 1979. The company had been badly shaken by the accident that shut down its Three Mile Island nuclear plant in Harrisburg, Pa., the previous March.
        It was the nation's worst commercial nuclear accident, and Mr. O'Leary was credited with helping to lead the company to financial recovery. He was named chairman and chief executive officer last May, succeeding William K. Kuhns. He also was chairman of G.P.U. Nuclear Corporation, a subsidiary.  Ran Consulting Concern Before he began working for General Public Utilities, Mr. O'Leary was president of O'Leary Associates, a Washington-based consulting concern specializing in energy economics that he had formed after leaving Government service in 1979.
        Mr. O'Leary, a native of Reno, earned a degree in economics from George Washington University, where he also did postgraduate work before entering Government service in the Kennedy Administration.
        Mr. O'Leary headed the Bureau of Natural Gas in the Federal Power Commission and served as director of the Bureau of Mines in the Interior Department and director of licensing for the Atomic Energy Commission.
        When the Carter Administration set up the Energy Department in 1977, Mr. O'Leary became its first deputy secretary, serving under James R. Schlesinger.
        Mr. O'Leary is survived by his wife, Hazel Reid O'Leary.
      