
       Arnold Bernhard, the founder and chief executive officer of Value Line Inc., the world's largest investment advisory service, died yesterday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.
        Arnold Bernhard, the founder and chief executive officer of Value Line Inc., the world's largest investment advisory service, died yesterday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.
        He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan and Westport, Conn.
        For more than half a century, Mr. Bernhard presided over the company and its flagship publication, the Value Line Investment Survey, which each week ranks 1,700 stocks for their projected market performance. This computerized system is based mainly on historical price and earnings trends, and more than 134,000 subscribers pay $495 annually to receive it.
        ''The market, to a large degree, is a captive of its past as well as an anticipation of the future,'' Mr. Bernhard once said. Contradicted 'Hypothesis'
        His innovations in stock market forecasting flew in the face of Wall Street brokerage houses that preferred to stress corporate earnings predictions and other techniques. His approach also contradicted the ''efficient market hypothesis,'' which holds that information is reflected in stock prices so quickly that no attempt to beat the market can succeed in the long run.
        From the outset - the first issue of the investment survey was cranked out on a mimeograph machine in 1936 -Mr. Bernhard sought to find a standard of value for stocks ''that would not give way to emotionalism.''
        This approach reflected personal experience: in the 1929 crash his mother lost the insurance money left by his father. ''I kept telling her to sell her Cities Service stock, but she refused,'' he recalled. The stock eventually fell to $2 a share, from $50.
        Mr. Bernhard originally used a separate mathematical equation for each company. In the mid-1960's, working with Samuel Eisenstadt, his chief statistician, he devised a single formula to apply to the entire spectrum of 1,700 stocks - in effect measuring one stock against all others. Its success placed the Value Line Investment Survey permanently on the map of the financial world. System Far From Foolproof
        But the system, like all others, is far from foolproof. It took a beating on oil service stocks in 1981 because a high ranking based on historical performance neglected to take into account an impending glut in the global oil supply that was to decimate profits. Again, during the second half of 1983 and early 1984, Value Line's rigid approach misjudged a difficult market environment.
        Mr. Bernhard's company became a valuable training ground for hundreds of security analysts who, over the years, left its less-than-princely salaries to seek fame and fortune elsewhere. Some became money managers, and others founded brokerage firms. One of the best-known alumni is John S. R. Shad, who went on to become chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission and is now Ambassador to the Netherlands.
        Mr. Bernhard's reputation for discipline dominated corporate life at Value Line, where employees were required to sign in and out of the office. A tall, somewhat autocratic man with a clipped mustache, he turned a chilly shoulder to prospective heir apparents, thus causing a number of aspiring executives to leave. ''I'm told there are big reunions of Value Line alumni, but I'm never invited,'' he told an interviewer. ''I'm not as chummy a person as I'd like to be.'' Daughter to Assume Duties
        The line of succession finally became clear in April 1985 when his daughter, Jean Bernhard Buttner, now 53, was named president and chief operating officer. Value Line announced yesterday that she would assume the duties of chief executive officer. Her twin brother, Arnold Van Hoven Bernhard, worked for the company for a time but is no longer involved in its management.
        The Bernhard business empire often attracted suitors, reportedly including such corporate powerhouses as Dun & Bradstreet, American Express and Merrill Lynch. When they turned up at his door, Mr. Bernhard would listen to their offers, smile and raise his price. ''The truth was that he really didn't want to sell,'' one colleague said. ''Value Line and the ranking system were his consuming passion.''
        Instead of selling out to another company, Mr. Bernhard made Value Line a public company with an offering of some shares in May 1983; the family interests retained 81 percent of the common stock. In addition, Mr. Bernhard, who was listed in ''The Forbes Four Hundred,'' a compilation of the richest Americans, kept much of his personal wealth invested in Value Line's group of mutual funds.
        The son of immigrants - his father came from Germany and his mother from Rumania - Mr. Bernhard was born on Dec. 2, 1901, in New York City. He grew up in Newark, Del., and Rutherford, N.J., and graduated from Williams College.
        He went to Wall Street after a spell as a drama critic for Time magazine. He wrote a play, ''Bull Market,'' that never reached the stage. In later years, however, he helped finance several Broadway plays. A Beginner on Wall Street
        While working briefly for Jesse Livermore, a legendary speculator, Mr. Bernhard wrote a report recommending copper stocks. Mr. Livermore, unpredictable as usual, promptly sold the stocks short.
        Mr. Bernhard then moved to Moody's Investors Service, where he worked as an analyst and later as an account executive. But, after the Depression began, he lost his job in 1931.
        That year he founded Arnold Bernhard & Company when some former clients asked him to continue managing their money. Today Value Line, in addition to issuing its various publications, serves as an investment adviser for its 14 mutual funds and also manages money for pension funds and other clients, with combined assets of about $7 billion. Arnold Bernhard & Company is now mainly a non-operating company that holds the family's controlling block of Value Line Inc. stock.
        In addition to his daughter and son, Mr. Bernhard is survived by his wife, the former Janet Marie Kinghorn, and five grandchildren.
        Services and burial will be private. There will be a memorial service on Friday, Jan. 15, at 1 P.M. at All Souls Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue, at 80th Street, in Manhattan.
      