
       Dr. George D. Ruggieri, director of the New York Aquarium and Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences in Coney Island, died of cancer Tuesday at the home of a sister in Moorestown, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Dr. George D. Ruggieri, director of the New York Aquarium and Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences in Coney Island, died of cancer Tuesday at the home of a sister in Moorestown, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Dr. Ruggieri, who was both a marine biologist and a Roman Catholic priest, had directed New York's famed aquarium since 1976 and the laboratories associated with it since 1973.
        Last year, Dr. Ruggieri announced new development plans for the aquarium that will eventually cost more than $20 million. He said the projects - Discovery Cove, now under construction, and Sea Cliffs - would give the public ''a real feel for the aquatic environment in the same sense that the Bronx Zoo does for animals.''
        While visitors have long enjoyed the aquarium's fascinating marine creatures, its research strength has largely remained behind the scenes. Yet many graduate students - including Dr. Ruggieri himself - have researched their theses in the lee of the Coney Island boardwalk and gone on to distinction in their field. 'The Healing Sea'
        Dr. Ruggieri's melding of the roles of Jesuit and scientist was perhaps best demonstrated in his 1969 book, ''The Healing Sea,'' in which he described the world's seas as a vast untapped pharmacy.
        He tells in the book of sponges found on the sea floor that can destroy bacteria, marine worms that contain anticancer agents and octopus saliva that can control hypertension.
        The octopus, in fact, was Dr. Ruggieri's favorite invertebrate. He was fascinated by the mysteries of its life history, its recently discovered powers of organ regeneration and its large brain, which permits it to learn how to tell one flashcard shape from another.
        George Daniel Ruggieri was born Jan. 29, 1925, in Philadelphia. He received his bachelor of science degree in biology from St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia in 1948 and his Ph.D. in biology from St. Louis University in Missouri in 1960. Academic Background
        He graduated from the Jesuit Novitiate in Wernersville, Pa., in 1953 and then went to Spring Hill College in Mobile, Ala., for philosophical studies, which he completed in 1955. After completing his doctorate at St. Louis University, he began his theological studies at Woodstock College in Woodstock, Md., in 1959. He was ordained in 1962, Dr. Ruggieri's association with the New York Aquarium began in 1958 when he was researching his doctoral thesis. He spent summers there as a researcher until, in 1967, he was appointed coordinator of research, research biologist and principal investigator in experimental embryology at the aquarium's Osborn Laboratories.
        In addition to his primary concerns with marine life, medicine and ecology, Dr. Ruggieri participated over 20 years in a wide variety of community, academic and government efforts, including the Soviet-American conference a few years ago on the Bering Sea and ocean pollution.
        He is survived by three brothers, Angelo, of Audubon, N.J.; Eugene, of Bellmawr, N.J., and Frank, of Clementon, N.J., and three sisters, Amie Canuso of Moorestown and Marie DiGiacomo and Mary Ruggieri, both of Clementon.
        The funeral will be held Saturday at 10:30 A.M. at the St. Matthias Roman Catholic Church in Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
      