
       Joop den Uyl, a veteran Labor Party politician who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 1973 to 1977, died yesterday. He was 68 years old.
        Joop den Uyl, a veteran Labor Party politician who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 1973 to 1977, died yesterday. He was 68 years old.
        Reuters reported from The Hague that his family said Mr. den Uyl died of cancer at his home in Amsterdam.
        Mr. den Uyl was a dedicated Socialist who never shrank from political controversy or ideological conflict. Under his leadership, the Dutch Government extended the country's far-reaching social welfare programs, increased foreign aid and cut the military budget. Opposed Cruise Missiles
        After his coalition Government broke up in 1977, Mr. den Uyl helped lead opposition to NATO plans for the deployment of 48 cruise missiles on Dutch soil. He was also an outspoken advocate of international disarmament efforts, and served as vice president of the Socialist International.
        Mr. den Uyl, a short, owlish man, was a pragmatic leader who moderated many of his more radical programs in reponse to growing economic pressures, and led his country during a series of difficult national crises.
        In one such episode, on June 11, 1977, Mr. den Uyl approved an assault by 30 Dutch marines that freed 53 hostages held by South Moluccan militants on a Dutch commuter train and in a village school. The assault, which came after more than three weeks of unsuccessful negotiations between the militants and the Dutch authorities, resulted in the death of six hijackers and two hostages.
        In another hostage crisis three years earlier, Mr. den Uyl approved the release of a Japanese man held in a Dutch prison in order to win the freedom of the French Ambassador and eight other hostages held by Japanese terrorists at the French Embassy in The Hague. After the prisoner was released and a ransom of $300,000 was paid, all of the hostages were freed and the terrorists were allowed to leave the country on a French airliner.
        Mr. den Uyl was Prime Minister during one of the country's most serious scandals, in which Prince Bernhard, the husband of Queen Juliana, was accused of accepting more than $1 million in bribes to assist the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation in gaining military procurement contracts. An official investigation, ordered by Mr. den Uyl, revealed no evidence that Prince Bernhard had received the bribes, but found that he had shown poor judgment and entertained ''dishonorable requests'' from Lockheed executives.
        A native of Amsterdam, Mr. den Uyl was educated at the University of Amsterdam, and began his political career in the Amsterdam city government. He served as Minister of Economic Affairs from 1965 to 1966, and was named leader of the opposition in 1967.
      