
       Rewi Alley, a New Zealander who came to China in 1927 and stayed 60 years to help the Communist cause, died Sunday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 90 years old.
        Rewi Alley, a New Zealander who came to China in 1927 and stayed 60 years to help the Communist cause, died Sunday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 90 years old.
        The agency said he died after suffering a stroke.
        Mr. Alley was one of several dozen foreigners, known here as ''old friends'' of China, who devoted their lives to the cause of Communism here. He wrote 34 non-fiction works praising the Communist revolution here, and also published 18 collections of his own poetry and translated 11 volumes of Chinese poetry.
        During China's civil war between Communist and Nationalist forces in the 1930's and 40's, Mr. Alley aided the Communist underground by working to supply guerrilla fighters with grain and medical supplies.
        He was influential in organizing an industrial cooperative program, and in the course of the war he ran more than 2,000 small cooperative factories. In 1944, he set up a technical school in northwestern China's impoverished Gansu Province, where he lived for 10 years.
        Like many of the ''old friends'' of China, he came under attack during the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, when everything foreign was suspect. He spent his last years quietly in Beijing, making few public appearances.
        In 1985, Mr. Alley was made an honorary citizen of Gansu. Despite recognition and praise from the nation's top leaders, he never received Chinese citizenship, however.
        Mr. Alley was born in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 1897, the son of a teacher. He briefly tried sheep ranching before setting out for Shanghai in 1927, attracted by reports of the activities of the six-year-old Chinese Communist Party.
        He became fire inspector for the Shanghai Municipal Council and used the council's car to distribute leaflets for the Communist underground. He also helped underground members escape arrest.
        At the time, he was a good friend of Anna Louise Strong, an American writer who became another ''old friend'' of China, and he knew Edgar Snow, the American journalist whose book, ''Red Star Over China,'' introduced Mao to many Western readers in 1938.
        Mr. Alley adopted and raised about 10 Chinese orphans, but apparently never married.
      