
       Charles H. Malik, a former Foreign Minister of Lebanon who was president of the United Nations General Assembly in 1958-59, died today after a long illness. He was 81 years old.
        Charles H. Malik, a former Foreign Minister of Lebanon who was president of the United Nations General Assembly in 1958-59, died today after a long illness. He was 81 years old.
        Dr. Malik, who also served as Ambassador to the United States from 1953 to 1955, was regarded as a friend of the United States and the West.
        A Greek Orthodox Christian, he also played a major role in Lebanese politics, defending a system that divides power among Christian and Moslem groups in a way that guarantees Christians a dominant role in key Government institutions.
        In 1958, when he was Foreign Minister, he was a key defender of his Government's decision to invite the United States to land its Marines to end a period of civil unrest that had been led by Lebanese Moslems.
        Dr. Malik, who had diabetes and a weak heart, died at St. George's Hospital in East Beirut, the predominantly Christian sector of the capital.
        Dr. Malik studied at Freiburg University and at Harvard, where he received a Ph.D. He taught philosophy at the American University of Beirut for many years, beginning in 1937.
        From 1945 to 1955, he served as a diplomat at the United Nations and in the United States, Venezuela and Cuba. War Forces a Relocation
        He returned to the university as dean of graduate studies in 1955 and was a professor of philosophy there until the Lebanese civil war drove him out of Moslem West Beirut, where the university is located. He relocated in Rabiye, a Christian suburb north of here.
        He was a member of the Lebanese Front, an all-Christian grouping that led a political campaign against the presence in Lebanon of Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas and Syrian troops.
        Of all the diplomatic and political positions he held in a career that spanned 40 years, the one he cherished the most was that of Lebanon's chief delegate to the conference that drafted the United Nations Charter, in 1945. He was a signer of the Charter.
        He was a delegate to the United Nations from 1945 to 1955 and from 1957 to 1959, and served as president of the General Assembly during its thirteenth session, in 1958 and 1959.
        He had just given up his post as Foreign Minister under Camille Chamoun, who was then President.
        Mr. Chamoun, aware of Dr. Malik's feeling for the United States, had relied on his Foreign Minister to persuade Washington to send troops when the country was shaken by riots prompted in part by opposition to Mr. Chamoun's pro-Western policies.
      