
       David Maysles, the documentary film maker, credited with his brother, Albert, as being one of the founders of the documentary genre known as cinema verite, died at Roosevelt Hospital yesterday after suffering a stroke Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        David Maysles, the documentary film maker, credited with his brother, Albert, as being one of the founders of the documentary genre known as cinema verite, died at Roosevelt Hospital yesterday after suffering a stroke Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The Maysles brothers were among the handful of film makers to first use the technological advance of the small camera - light enough to fit on a cameraman's shoulder - to capture the drama of daily experience. Their films, a form they described as the cinematic equivalent of the nonfiction novel and called ''direct cinema,'' constituted a major departure from the more traditional documentary technique of running narration and static face-to-face interviews.
        The brothers' best-known documentaries were ''Salesman,'' which chronicled the adventures of four Bible salesmen (1969); ''Gimme Shelter,'' a record of the latter part of the Rolling Stones' 1969 American tour (1970), and ''Grey Gardens'' about Edith and Edie Bouvier Beale, the reclusive aunt and cousin of Jacqueline Onassis (1975).
        Vincent Canby, film critic of The New York Times, hailed ''Salesman'' as ''such a fine, pure picture of a small section of American life that I can't imagine its ever seeming irrelevant, either as a social document or as one of the best examples of what's called cinema verite or direct cinema.'' Films Generated Controversy
        Their films were praised for their artistry, compassion and devotion, but were not without controversy.
        There were those who asserted that the film makers' frequently stark portrayals constituted exploitation -particularly the scene in ''Gimme Shelter'' in which a young man is stabbed to death by Hell's Angels at a Rolling Stones concert at the Altamont Speedway in California, and the candid self-revelations in ''Grey Gardens,'' in which Mrs. Beale and her daughter are photographed in their cat-infested house. The film makers, however, repeatedly defended their technique as portraying ''the truth.''
        ''We have built our reputation by confronting the actual world,'' they once wrote in a letter to The New York Times. ''We have labored in each of our films to get as close to the truth as we could.''
        The brothers were intermittently assisted by Susan Froemke, Ellen Hovde, Muffie Meyer and Charlotte Zwerin. Their other films include ''Showman,'' about producer Joseph E. Levine (1963), ''What's Happening! The Beatles in the U.S.A.'' (1964); ''Meet Marlon Brando'' (1965); ''A Visit With Truman Capote'' (1966); ''Christo's Valley Curtain'' (1974), a film on the artist Christo for which they were nominated for an Academy Award, and ''Running Fence'' (1978) another film about the artist. Other Projects Were Planned
        A third film on Christo, ''Islands,'' was completed this year. Two additional films - ''Vladimir Horowitz, the Last Romantic'' (1985), made in collaboration with Pat Jaffe, and ''Ozawa,'' made wth Deborah Dickson and about the conductor Seiji Ozawa -are to be shown later this year on Public Broadcasting Service stations.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Maysles was at work with his brother on a number of other films, including a fourth film about Christo; a film on the author James Neuf; a film on the author James Baldwin; a film about the J. Paul Getty museum planned for Brentwood, Calif., and ''Heart,'' a documentary, in collaboration with Henry Corra, about the reversal of heart disease through changes in life style.
        In addition, the brothers had long been at work on two feature-length documentaries: one about their family tentatively titled ''Blue Yonder'' and the other, ''Fellow Passengers,'' about long-distance trains.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Maysles is survived by his wife, Judith; a son, John Philip, and a daughter, Celia.
        A funeral will be held today at 2 P.M. at the Brockett Funeral Home in Southampton, L.I. A memorial service in Manhattan will be announced.
      