
       W. R. Poage, who represented central Texas's 11th Congressional District in for 42 years until retiring in 1978, died yesterday of heart failure after emergency surgery at Scott and White Memorial Hospital in Temple, Tex. He was 87 years old and a resident and native of Waco.
        W. R. Poage, who represented central Texas's 11th Congressional District in for 42 years until retiring in 1978, died yesterday of heart failure after emergency surgery at Scott and White Memorial Hospital in Temple, Tex. He was 87 years old and a resident and native of Waco.
        Representative Poage, a Democrat, was first elected to Congress in 1936 after working a farm, practicing law and spending 12 years in the State Legislature in Austin. In Washington, he sat on the House Agriculture Committee for 34 years, serving as its chairman from 1967 until a new generation of Democrats in the House openly rebelled against its rigid seniority system toward the end of 1974.
        As a junior member of the Agriculture Committee, Mr. Poage had championed the small farmer. He railed against the farm policies of the Eisenhower Administration, which he held responsible for forcing farmers off the land instead of insuring their prosperity. Forced to Make Compromises
        But the power of rural interests in Congress was in a long, historic decline that coincided with his tenure. His own political influence, derived from incumbency and his Southern power base, waned with the farm bloc and, even as he held the chairmanship, he was forced to make compromises with urban Democrats.
        Mr. Poage had looked askance at Federal food stamps and sought to restrict their use. He also was skeptical of various other proposals to give food assistance to the poor and, as late as 1968, disputed the presence of hunger in the rural South.
        To preserve his influence, he became more open to arguments from differing farming interests and even courted urban liberals by supporting a more generous approach to food stamps so as to win passage of a farm bill he could live with in 1973.
        The revolt that gathered force the following year was fueled by first-term Democrats elected in the wake of the Watergate scandals. Their first target became Wilbur D. Mills of the Ways and Means Committee, perhaps the most powerful chairman of them all, who resigned under fire in December.
        By then, Mr. Poage's role as the defender of the small farmer had become overshadowed by his defense of strict sugar quotas and subsidies to corporate cotton growers.
        In a stunning upset, in January 1975, Mr. Poage was deposed from his committee chairmanship along with two other long-term Southern strongmen: Wright Patman, a fellow Texan, from the Banking and Currency Committee, and F. Edward Hebert of Louisiana, from the Armed Services Committee. Had Surgery in 1977
        Mr. Poage, who continued as deputy chairman of the Agriculture Committee, underwent an operation in 1977, then announced that he would not run for another term. At the time he was the second-ranking House member in seniority.
        After his return to Waco, he pursued a lifelong avocation by writing books on the history of central Texas and McLennan County and the recollections of his boyhood.
        He worked largely out of the W. R. Poage Legislative Library Center at Baylor University, his alma mater. The center for advanced studies and research was built with private funds and formed another of his principal interests.
        A nursing supervisor at the Waco hospital said yesterday that Mr. Poage had suffered a heart attack Dec. 10 while driving in Waco. His car mounted a divider and struck a tree.
        Mr. Poage was hospitalized until Dec. 20, was readmitted last Monday for intensive tests and underwent the emergency surgery Friday, the supervisor, Betty White, said. Spent His Youth on a Cow Ranch
        William Robert (Bob) Poage was born Dec. 28, 1899, in Waco but spent part of his early youth on a cow ranch the family ran in western Texas. He attended Waco High School and served a year in the Navy as an apprentice seaman in 1918 before enroling at Baylor University, where he honed his oratory as a member of the debating team.
        He graduated in 1921 and worked as an undergraduate instructor in geology while earning his law degree at the Baylor law school. He was admitted to the Texas bar in 1924 and practiced in Waco until 1935.
        Mr. Poage served four years in the Texas House of Representatives, 1924-28, and in the state Senate from 1930 until his election to Congress.
        A widower, he is survived by a brother, Scott A. Poage of Waco; a nephew, Scott T. Poage, also of Waco, and a niece, April Poage Woolsey of Austin.
        A funeral service is to be held at 2:30 P.M. tomorrow at the First Presbyterian Church in Waco.
        EX CONGRESSMAN W.R. POAGE, 87
      