
       Jaime V. Ongpin, one of the first supporters of Corazon C. Aquino in her bid for the presidency, died today, apparently a suicide, three months after being dismissed as her Finance Minister, the police said. He was 49 years old.
        Jaime V. Ongpin, one of the first supporters of Corazon C. Aquino in her bid for the presidency, died today, apparently a suicide, three months after being dismissed as her Finance Minister, the police said. He was 49 years old.
        Mr. Ongpin was found in his office with a bullet wound in his right temple and a pistol in his right hand, the police said. ''It looks like suicide,'' a police investigator, Romeo Ubana, said.
        ''He probably took his own life because of deep-seated depression,'' said Mr. Ongpin's eldest son, Rafael. ''He was very unhappy for the last few weeks of his life.''
        Mr. Ongpin was the younger brother of Roberto Ongpin, Minister of Trade and Industry under Ferdinand E. Marcos. Championed Aquino's Cause
        But after the assassination of Mrs. Aquino's husband, Benigno, in 1983, he led the business sector in turning against President Marcos's Government.
        As head of one of the nation's largest mining companies, the Benguet Corporation, which was controlled by Mr. Marcos's brother-in-law, he championed the cause of Mrs. Aquino, then seen as an unlikely challenger for the presidency.
        At the time, he exemplified the determination of many Filipinos to risk their well-being in challenging Mr. Marcos, despite what he acknowledged to be almost impossible odds.
        A tough and outspoken member of Mrs. Aquino's Cabinet, Mr. Ongpin aroused controversy with his conservative economic policies and refusal to compromise on the nation's foreign debt obligations.
        He became embroiled in palace infighting and was dismissed on Sept. 16 in a Cabinet shuffle that followed a coup attempt by disaffected mililtary officers.
        He dropped out of public view after that and became mostly inaccessible to the press. 'An Outstanding Filipino'
        In a statement tonight, Mrs. Aquino called Mr. Ongpin ''an outstanding Filipino who had the courage of his convictions.''
        ''He fought the dictatorship during the martial law years when few would do so,'' Mrs. Aquino said. ''Jimmy was also a superb technocrat and organizer whose contribution to my presidential campaign was priceless.''
        Mr. Ongpin graduated from the Ateneo de Manila University in 1958 and from the Harvard University Graduate School of Business in 1962.
        He served as advertising manager of the Philippine subsidiary of Procter & Gamble before joining Benguet in 1962. He became president of that company in 1974.
        ''It is hard to believe that Jimmy committed suicide,'' said Jose Concepcion, the current Minister of Trade and Industry, who sometimes tangled with Mr. Ongpin in the Cabinet debates.
        ''He is a fighter. If there is an obstacle, he just looks at it as another obstacle to hurdle. It is really very difficult for me to understand that suicide was a possibility.''
        Mr. Ongpin is survived by his wife, Marybelle, three sons and two daughters.
      