
       Frank G. Boyce, who served for nearly a quarter-century as president of the Experiment in International Living, an exchange program for students, died Wednesday at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Vermont after a long illness. He was 70 years old and lived in West Brattleboro, Vt.
        Frank G. Boyce, who served for nearly a quarter-century as president of the Experiment in International Living, an exchange program for students, died Wednesday at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Vermont after a long illness. He was 70 years old and lived in West Brattleboro, Vt.
        Mr. Boyce came to take charge of the project, a nonprofit organization founded in 1932 with headquarters in Brattleboro, in 1950 when the project offered a relatively modest international exchange program for students in this country and overseas during summer vacations.
        By the time he left, in 1974, the program had grown in size and scope to touch the lives of tens of thousands of high school and college students. Peace Corps Program
        The Kennedy Administration called on Mr. Boyce's experience as an expert in international education in 1961 to help Sargent Shriver organize the Peace Corps. He developed a program to involve private voluntary agencies and foundations in its planning and served as the first director of the Peace Corps' division of private and international organizations.
        Mr. Boyce was born in Binghamton, N.Y., and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Colgate University in 1939. He then worked as a reporter and feature writer for The Binghamton Sun, with time out for service in the Navy in World War II.
        He was an assistant to the president of Colgate from 1946 until he was asked to head the exchange program in 1950. He was also a trustee of Colgate from 1963 to 1969.
        From 1976 until 1983, he was executive director of the Vermont Federation of Independent Colleges.
        Mr. Boyce is survived by his wife of 46 years, the former Joan Sweet; a son, Frank G. Boyce Jr. of Davie, Fla.; a daughter, Johanna Boyce of Brooklyn, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled today at 2 P.M. at the Experiment in International Living in Brattleboro.
      