
       Clifton Chenier, the Louisiana accordionist and singer whose fans called him ''the king of zydeco,'' died Saturday evening at Lafayette General Hospital in Lafayette, La. He was 62 years old.
        Clifton Chenier, the Louisiana accordionist and singer whose fans called him ''the king of zydeco,'' died Saturday evening at Lafayette General Hospital in Lafayette, La. He was 62 years old.
        Although the cause of death was not immediately determined, the musician was severely diabetic and had been undergoing weekly kidney dialysis treatments. In recent years he had resumed touring, but after he returned from a northeastern tour at the end of last month, he was hospitalized.
        Mr. Chenier epitomized zydeco, a mixture of Cajun music, waltzes and two-steps, rhythm and blues, country and soul music created by French-speaking blacks in Louisiana and east Texas. Beginning in the early 50's, he criss-crossed the Southern states with his band, performing marathon sets night after night in clubs and dance halls with a large, glittering crown perched atop his head. Spearheaded Accordion Revival
        During the 70's, Mr. Chenier introduced his Louisiana music to folk and blues audiences across America and in Europe. He influenced a burgeoning accordion revival in popular music, inspired many imitators and recorded more than 100 albums.
        Mr. Chenier was born June 25, 1925 on a farm near Opelousas, La. He began playing the accordion at rural house parties, inspired by local musicians and by the recordings of Amadie Ardoin, an influential black Cajun musician. With his brother Cleveland playing the rub board, basically an old-fashioned corrugated washboard played with metal fingerpicks, Mr. Chenier began to make a name for himself, first in the neighborhood of Opelousas and later around Lake Charles, La., where he moved with his family in 1947.
        In 1954, Mr. Chenier made his first record, ''Clifton Blues.'' In 1955 he recorded for Specialty Records, then an important rock-and-roll label with hits by Little Richard and other artists.
        His specialty singles, collected on the album ''Bayou Boogie,'' are some of his best work. Some of these early singles, the first records to bring the Louisiana zydeco sound to a wider audience, were popular in Jamaica.
        After recording for several small labels, Mr. Chenier began recording for Arhoolie in 1964 and made several splendid albums, including ''King of Bayou'' and ''Bogalusa Boogie,'' which captures the definitive lineup of Mr. Chenier's Red Hot Louisiana Band. In 1966 he made a well-received appearance at the Berkeley Folk Festival and was soon in demand at folk, blues and jazz festivals around the world. In 1973 he was the subject of Les Blank's award-winning documentary film, ''Hot Pepper.'' His success inspired a new generation of accordion-playing zydeco stars, including Rockin' Dopsie and Stanley (Buckwheat) Dural, all of whom acknowledged Mr. Chenier as ''the king.''
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret.
      