
       Donald S. Lowitz, a Chicago lawyer who was the chief United States delegate to the United Nations Disarmament Conference here, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, American officials said today. He was 57 years old.
        Donald S. Lowitz, a Chicago lawyer who was the chief United States delegate to the United Nations Disarmament Conference here, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, American officials said today. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Lowitz was named head of the delegation to the 40-nation conference in 1984, and helped negotiate a draft treaty to ban the production, storage and use of chemicals weapons.
        The Disarmament Conference is separate from the Soviet-American negotiations on nuclear and space weapons.
        Mr. Lowitz died three days before the Disarmament Conference was to resume on Tuesday. Officials said that his death was expected to delay a policy speech here Thursday by Kenneth L. Adelman, director of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
        There was no immediate word of a replacement for Mr. Lowitz.
        As head of the American delegation, he had focused on the draft treaty introduced in 1983 by Vice President Bush to ban chemical weapons. The talks remain deadlocked over procedures for on-site verification, which the Soviet Union opposes.
        Mr. Lowitz was born in Chicago on April 16, 1929. He received a law degree from Northwestern University in 1950, and a doctorate in jurisprudence from Northwestern in 1952.
        He worked as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois from 1954 to 1959, and was general counsel to the Office of Economic Opportunity in Washington from 1969 to 71. From 1972 to 1978, he held various posts in Washington, serving as a consultant to the White House and to the Department of Defense.
        From 1974 to 1984, he was a partner in the Chicago law firm of Aaron, Schimberg, Hess & Gilbert, according to an official biography issued by the United States Mission here.
        Mr. Lovitz is survived by his wife, Shana, and three children. The funeral is scheduled Thursday at Congregation Solel in Highland Park, Ill,
      