
       James Coco, the roly-poly actor who parlayed his sizable girth into a successful career in character parts that ranged from the comic to the terrifying, died Wednesday night after suffering a heart attack. The actor, who was 56 years old, was pronounced dead at St. Vincent's Hospital, where he had been taken from his home in Greenwich
        James Coco, the roly-poly actor who parlayed his sizable girth into a successful career in character parts that ranged from the comic to the terrifying, died Wednesday night after suffering a heart attack. The actor, who was 56 years old, was pronounced dead at St. Vincent's Hospital, where he had been taken from his home in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Coco, who grew up in the Bronx, first came to public attention during the late 1960's. Best known at the time for his Drano commercials on television, Mr. Coco had complained to his friend Terrence McNally, the playwright, ''Why doesn't anybody ever write a play for a fat character actor?'' Mr. McNally responded by writing ''Next'' for Mr. Coco, whose performance won critical accolades and the attention of Neil Simon.
        Mr. Simon wrote ''Last of the Red-Hot Lovers'' with Mr. Coco in mind for the part of Barney Cashman, the overweight, middle-aged, married owner of a seafood restaurant who tries unsuccessfully to join the sexual revolution. Mr. Coco's performance earned a Tony Award nomination and made him a star. His association with Mr. Simon developed into a close friendship, and Mr. Coco later appeared in several of Mr. Simon's movies, including ''Murder by Death,'' ''The Cheap Detective,'' and ''Only When I Laugh,'' which won him an Academy Award nomination.
        ''He was an acting comedian, and he was as funny as any actor I've ever met,'' Mr. Simon said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''He typified the loser. As a character, he was always in trouble in everything he ever did. He exposed himself in all the most vulnerable ways, and he was always able to play the foibles of anybody.'' A Frightening Side, Too
        Mr. Coco's talents were not limited to the strictly comedic, however, and sometimes the foibles he played were dark and frightening. Although he was initially afraid to take on the role of a 500-pound man eating himself to death in Albert Innaurato's ''Transfiguration of Benno Blimpie,'' fearing that he might fail and destroy his entire career, his shattering performance elicited superlative reviews.
        Mr. Coco's Broadway credits included ''You Can't Take It With You.'' Among his films were ''Man of La Mancha,'' ''A New Leaf,'' ''The Strawberry Statement,'' ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' ''Such Good Friends,'' ''The Wild Party,'' and ''The Muppets Take Manhattan.'' At the time of his death, Mr. Coco was working on a new movie, ''Rented Lips,'' which was written by Martin Mull.
        Mr. Coco's television appearances included two short-lived television series during the mid-1970's, ''Calucci's Dept.'' and ''The Dumplings.'' He won an Emmy Award in 1983 for an episode on NBC-TV's ''St. Elsewhere,'' and he also won Obie Awards for Off Broadway appearances in ''The Moon in the Yellow River'' in 1959 and ''Fragments'' in 1967.
        Mr. Coco's passion for acting began when he was a child and his mother took him to the movies. ''I got hooked by Hollywood and the glamour of the stars,'' he said later. ''I begged to see everything. In a sense, I was formed by the movies.''
        When he himself was catapulted to stardom by ''Red-Hot Lovers,'' Mr. Coco was euphoric. ''I guess right now I'm giving a lot of other character actors - fat and skinny - hope,'' he said at the time. ''The impossible can happen. You, too, can become a star.'' Weight Always a Problem
        However, although Mr. Coco's rotund form helped to make him immediately recognizable in a wide range of roles, his struggle to control his weight was a lifelong trial during which he gained and lost hundreds of pounds. In 1984 he became an author with ''The James Coco Diet Book,'' and he had written a new book called ''Cooking With Coco'' that was scheduled to be published this spring.
        Mr. Coco's final stage performance in New York was in last year's production of Mr. McNally's ''It's Only a Play.'' ''The reason he was such a funny performer is because he was so scrupulous in his observation of the truth,'' the playwright, a longtime friend, said yesterday. ''But he was never just funny. The performances he'll be remembered for are the ones that also had a lot of heartbreak in them. He could turn an audience he had helplessly laughing and have them crying within five seconds. I think he will be remembered as a great actor.''
        Mr. Coco is survived by a sister, Lucia Negri of Brooklyn.
        Funeral services are scheduled for 11 A.M. on Saturday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      