
       Prince Takamatsu, a younger brother of Emperor Hirohito and a philanthropist, died of lung cancer today in a Tokyo hospital. He was 82 years old.
        Prince Takamatsu, a younger brother of Emperor Hirohito and a philanthropist, died of lung cancer today in a Tokyo hospital. He was 82 years old.
        His was the first death in the imperial family since another brother of Hirohito, Prince Chichibu, died in 1953.
        Japan normally regards its royalty with considerable reserve. But newspapers published extra editions and the public-service television network, NHK, broadcast a special program about Prince Takamatsu, who was fifth in line to the throne.
        The 85-year-old Emperor, who does not often leave the Imperial Palace grounds, called on his brother about an hour before he died at the Japan Red Cross Medical Center. Hirohito, who ascended to the throne in 1926, has one surviving sibling, Prince Mikasa, 71.
        For much of his life Prince Takamatsu filled a ceremonial role, heading cultural and medical organizations and traveling abroad on occasion as a goodwill representative. Slender and sharp-featured, he was said to have been vigorous until a year ago.
        During World War II, according to written accounts, Prince Takamatsu was an adviser to Emperor Hirohito while a captain on the general staff of the navy. Before the attack on Pearl Harbor, the reports said, the Prince shared the doubts of some naval officers about the wisdom of going to war against the United States.
        After war was declared, Captain Takamatsu advocated a buildup in aircraft production. An eventual outgrowth of his campaign for better use of warplanes was a decision to send kamikaze pilots on suicide missions in an attempt to sink American warships.
        The Prince told the Japanese magazine Bungei Shunju in 1976 that after the American victory at the Battle of Midway in June 1942, ''I expected no chance of victory and tried to persuade many people to prepare for an early end to the war.''
        The Prince was born on Jan. 3, 1905, the third son of Crown Prince Yoshihito, who later became Emperor Taisho, and Crown Princess Setsuko.
        He was graduated from the Naval Academy in 1924 and from the Naval Staff College in 1936. After the war, he was active in cultural organizations and for a time was president of the Japanese Red Cross Society.
        The Prince is survived by his wife, Kikuko. They had no children. Kyodo, the Japanese news agency, said a funeral service was expected to be held Feb. 10.
        PRINCE TAKAMATSU OF JAPAN DIES
      