
       Gerhard Klopfer, a former SS general who was the last surviving member of the 1942 Berlin conference that plotted the ''Final Solution'' to systematically kill European Jews, died Jan. 28. He was 81 years old.
        Gerhard Klopfer, a former SS general who was the last surviving member of the 1942 Berlin conference that plotted the ''Final Solution'' to systematically kill European Jews, died Jan. 28. He was 81 years old.
        Alfred Streim, head of the Nazi Documentation Center in Ludwigsburg, in southern West Germany, said today that General Klopfer died at a home for the elderly outside Heilbronn in Baden-Wurttemberg. The center tracks former Nazis for possible prosecution.
        About 15 top-ranking Nazis gathered on Jan. 20, 1942, in the lakeside Wannsee Villa in Berlin to plot the killing of the Jews remaining in Nazi-occupied Europe. About six million Jews were killed between 1933 and 1945. The conference also plotted the deaths of hundreds of thousands of gypsies and others considered undesirable by the Nazis.
        General Klopfer was never convicted of war crimes because of what officials said was a lack of evidence. Last Survivor of Meeting
        Mr. Streim said General Klopfer was the last surviving member of the Wannsee conference, which was held under the chairmanship of Reinhard Heydrich. Heydrich was killed in June 1942 by the Czechoslovak resistance.
        Hitler ordered the meeting but did not attend. General Klopfer took part as an aide to Hitler's deputy, Martin Bormann.
        Hitler left it to Heydrich to inform those attending that all remaining Jews would be used as slave labor, then systematically eliminated as the Nazis' plans for conquering Europe progressed.
        Among those at the conference were Adolf Eichmann, who was executed for war crimes by Israel in 1962, and Roland Freisler, the president of the Nazis' People's Court in Berlin that sentenced more than 5,000 people to death.
        Although General Klopfer was charged at the Nuremberg war crimes trials, the Allied court decided in 1951 to drop the case against him, after determining he had not had enough power to have influenced Nazi policy in ''the Final Solution.'' Center Closes Case
        General Klopfer eventually moved to Neu Ulm in Bavaria, where he was given permission to resume practicing law in 1956.
      