
       Carl R. Rogers, a popular author and preeminent American psychotherapist whose influence has spanned decades, died Wednesday night of a heart attack after surgery for a broken hip at the Scripps Clinic in La Jolla, Calif. He was 85 years old. Dr. Rogers, a psychologist, was known for developing the client-centered approach to psychotherapy, in which the therapist maintains an accepting and empathic stance toward the patient and lets the patient take the lead in the focus, pace and direction of therapy.
        Carl R. Rogers, a popular author and preeminent American psychotherapist whose influence has spanned decades, died Wednesday night of a heart attack after surgery for a broken hip at the Scripps Clinic in La Jolla, Calif. He was 85 years old. Dr. Rogers, a psychologist, was known for developing the client-centered approach to psychotherapy, in which the therapist maintains an accepting and empathic stance toward the patient and lets the patient take the lead in the focus, pace and direction of therapy.
        He was also a founder of humanistic psychology and instrumental in the encounter group movement of the 1960's. Among the best known of his books was ''On Becoming a Person,'' published in 1961.
        Humanistic psychology emphasizes a person's own capacity for lifelong growth and development rather than dwelling on events in the person's past or concentrating on the therapist's ideas of how the person should change.
        Perhaps Dr. Rogers's most significant influence on psychotherapy has been the client-centered approach, which today is one of the most widely used techniques among therapists and counselors.
        The approach, sometimes also called ''person-centered'' or ''nondirective'' therapy, has had a wide impact on psychology, education and organizational development. Its influence led to the common use among psychotherapists of the term ''client'' rather than ''patient'' for those they treat.
        ''It is the client who knows what hurts, what directions to go, what problems are crucial, what experiences have been deeply buried,'' Dr. Rogers wrote in ''On Becoming a Person.'' Resources Within Themselves
        ''One of the tenets of client-centered therapy is that the individual can make his own choices,'' Dr. Rogers said in an interview last year. ''I disagree with manipulative approaches to therapy; to assume that one person can be in charge of another's life is a dangerous philosophy.''
        ''My own philosophy is based on the conviction that people have within themselves the resources and capacity for self-understanding and self-correction,'' he added. ''The goal of therapy, as I see it, is to create the proper climate so self-discovery and personal growth can take place.''
        By adapting the client-centered approach for work with groups of people, in the 1960's Dr. Rogers became one of the chief architects of the encounter group, a technique now commonly used for training business executives and other leaders.
        ''Encounter groups have spread through the culture by now,'' Dr. Rogers said last year. ''A lot of the kooky aspects of groups and the more crazy therapists have fallen by the wayside.''
        In a series of meetings in the 1960's with other scholars, including Abraham Maslow and Rollo May, Dr. Rogers became a founder of humanistic psychology, which was then called the Third Force in psychology, to distinguish it from psychoanalysis and behaviorism, the other two dominant schools of thought at the time.
        ''Carl Rogers was, for many, the most important voice in the human potential movement'' that blossomed in the late 1960's and early 1970's, said Paul DuBois, the executive director of the Association for Humanistic Psychology. Focus on Encounter Groups
        In recent years Dr. Rogers focused his efforts on leading encounter groups that brought together people from conflicting political factions. He conducted such groups with Protestants and Roman Catholics in Belfast, with clashing politicians from Central America and with blacks and whites in South Africa. He was to return next month to lead a second session in South Africa.
        ''In the groups, you see each other as a person, not as those evil Catholics or Protestants,'' he said. ''The feelings of irrational hostility dissolve.''
        His son, David Rogers, a Distinguished Professor of Medicine at Cornell University Medical School, observed, ''Over his career, he moved from one-on-one psychotherapy, to small groups, to nations.''
        Carl Ransom Rogers was born in Oak Park, Ill., on Jan. 8, 1902. He attended the University of Wisconsin, as did his wife, Helen Elliott, who was also from Oak Park, and whom Dr. Rogers had known since childhood. For two years Dr. Rogers studied at Union Theological Seminary, which he left to study psychology at Columbia. After Dr. Rogers received his doctorate in 1931 in clinical psychology from Teachers College at Columbia University, he became the director of a child guidance center in Rochester.
        While in Rochester, Dr. Rogers wrote his first book, ''Clinical Treatment of the Problem Child,'' which led to his being offered a position as professor of psychology at Ohio State University. He began to articulate his special approach to therapy in his next book, ''Counselling and Psychotherapy,'' written while at Ohio State. With that book Dr. Rogers offered an alternative to the psychoanalytic approach to therapy that dominated the field. Founded Counseling Center
        In 1945, Dr. Rogers became a professor at the University of Chicago, where he founded the counseling center. It was at that center where Dr. Rogers did most of his research on what happened in sessions of therapy, a radical idea at the time. This research allowed Dr. Rogers to fully articulate his approach, and to justify its use, which he set forth in his 1951 book, ''Client-Centered Therapy,'' the statement of technique that has had widest influence among therapists.
        Last year Dr. Rogers said that one of the things he had done in his life that pleased him most was ''opening up therapy sessions, which had been utterly private, to the objective eye of research.''
        From 1957 to 1963 Dr. Rogers was a professor of psychology and psychiatry at the University of Wisconisn. In 1961 his most popular book, ''On Becoming a Person'' was published, in which he set forth his reflections on the nature of psychotherapy and personal growth. The book was to become a bible of the humanistic psychology movement.
        In 1963 Dr. Rogers left university teaching to become a founder of the Center for Studies of the Person in La Jolla, Calif., and was for the rest of his life a Resident Fellow and guiding spirit there. He and other members of the center conducted workshops and seminars around the world for business executives, educators, political leaders, psychotherapists and others.
        Dr. Rogers recently returned from a tour of the Soviet Union, where he demonstrated client-centered therapy and led encounter groups with English-speaking Russians. To packed auditoriums, Dr. Rogers demonstrated his technique by working on stage with a volunteer on a real problem, just as he would in a private therapy session - a technique he felt could accomplish as much as psychotherapy. Demonstration Interviews
        ''In recent years I've been doing an increasing number of demonstration interviews in front of large groups, a slice of the therapeutic relationship,'' he said last year. ''Some have been remarkable, with a lasting effect on the client. With a large audience, there's a flow of energy that heightens the whole experience: if anything is going to happen, it's going to be in that half-hour.''
        His most famous demonstration was in a film, widely used in colleges, in which Dr. Rogers interviewed a woman named Gloria about her problems. In the same film, Gloria was treated by two other famous therapists, Fritz Perls and Albert Ellis. According to Dr. Rogers, Gloria was deeply affected by her one contact with him, and she continued to write to him about her life and occasionally to see him.
        Other books Dr. Rogers wrote include ''Freedom to Learn'' in 1983, ''Personal Power'' in 1977, and ''A Way of Being'' in 1980. He recently revised ''Freedom to Learn,'' and finished a book, with his colleague Ruth Sanford, on his work in South Africa.
        Dr. Rogers's many honors included the first Distinguished Professional Contributor Award and the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award of the American Psychological Association. He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        In addition to his son, David Rogers, Dr. Rogers is survived by his daughter, Natalie Rogers, a psychologist in Santa Rosa, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      