
       Michael Burke, who as president of the Yankees got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the Meadowlands in New Jersey, died of cancer Thursday in Ireland. He was 70 years old.
        Michael Burke, who as president of the Yankees got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the Meadowlands in New Jersey, died of cancer Thursday in Ireland. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Burke led the Yankees from 1966 to 1973, when the team was sold to George Steinbrenner by CBS.
        The ebullient and articulate Mr. Burke then became president of Madison Square Garden, where he was also president of the Knicks, chairman of the Rangers, impresario of boxing and grand master of Holiday on Ice.
        Mr. Burke was born in Enfield, Conn., and attended high school in Hartford, where he was a star athelete. Played Professional Football
        He won a scholarship to the University of Pennsylvania, where he played football before World War II. He was offered a professional football contract and joined the Philadephia Eagles in 1941, but left shortly thereafter to serve with the United States Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        His activities took him behind enemy lines in Italy. He later infiltrated into France, where he joined the Resistance to prepare for the D-Day invasion. He was awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star and the French Medaille de la Resistance.
        After the war, he came home and went to Hollywood, where he helped in the production of the film ''Cloak and Dagger,'' which was based on his life behind enemy lines and which starred Gary Cooper.
        However, Mr. Burke was soon back in Europe, serving as an adviser to the United States High Commissioner in Germany, John J. McCloy, from 1951 to 1954. Managed Ringling Brothers
        When he next returned to the United States, he became general manager of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
        In 1956, Mr. Burke was hired by the Columbia Broadcasting System and was soon named vice president in charge of developing new areas of business expansion.
        One of his first recommendations was that CBS underwrite a new Broadway musical with an old George Bernard Shaw theme. The multimillion-dollar hit was ''My Fair Lady.''
        In the early 1960's, the Yankees were for sale and Mr. Burke suggested CBS buy the team, which the company did in 1966 for $13.2 million. 'Pig in a Poke'
        In September of 1966, he became president of the Yankees and took on the task of rebuilding the baseball club. When he left the club in 1973, his title was general partner and chief executive.
        Mr. Burke's, as well as CBS's association with the Yankees, however, was disappointing. CBS sold the team in 1973 for $10 million after suffering an operating loss of $11 million.
        ''The trouble was,'' Mr. Burke once said, ''We didn't go in and feel the goods. We bought a pig in a poke.''
        One of the better moments in Mr. Burke's leadership of the team occurred in 1972 when he reached an accord with the administation of Mayor John V. Lindsay. In return for keeping the Yankees in New York, the city agreed to rebuild Yankee Stadium.
        Mr. Burke's leverage was a threat to move the Yankees to New Jersey, an offer the football Giants did not refuse. 'Rush of Irish Blood'
        The Giants were subsequently criticized by the news media for their move to the Meadowlands, while Mr. Burke's Yankees were grandly praised.
        The refurbishing of the stadium was to have cost $24 million, but ended up costing the city more than $100 million.
        Mr. Burke's tenure at Madison Square Garden was also filled with controversy and problems created by the growth and competition from the new sports complex in East Rutherford, N.J.
        After his retirement from the Garden in 1981, he left the United States and traveled in Europe before settling in Ireland, where he owned a 500-acre farm in the village of Aughrim, 35 miles east of Galway.
        He purchased the farm in 1960 after visiting the region regularly as an escape from the hectic pace of his offices in Manhattan.
        In an interview at his farm in 1982, he said: ''I had an immensely happy time doing the Yankees and Madison Square Garden. I loved every minute of it. And I love New York. Top to bottom.
        ''It's just at this stage in my life, there is this strong pull that Ireland has on me - emotional and romantic, I suppose - but also because my family has been here for 800 years and there has always been a strong rush of Irish blood in my viens.''
        He is survived by three daughters, Patricia of Manhattan, Michele Majer of Brooklyn and Doreen Sorrell, of Norfolk, England; a son, Peter, of Manhattan; a sister, Janet Griffin of North Windham, Conn., and two grandchildren. His former wife, Timothy Burke, was with him when he died, according to Mr. Burke's former secretary, Roseann Miskow.
        The funeral is to be held in Enfield, and a memorial service is planned for New York City in March.
      