
       Dwight Taylor, a playwright, screenwriter and author, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old and had lived at the hospital since 1981.
        Dwight Taylor, a playwright, screenwriter and author, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old and had lived at the hospital since 1981.
        Mr. Taylor wrote the scripts for five plays, many television programs and more than 20 motion pictures, including ''The Gay Divorcee'' (1934), with a score by Cole Porter, and ''Top Hat'' (1935), with songs by Irving Berlin. Both films featured Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Mr. Taylor also wrote the script for the Broadway production of ''The Gay Divorcee'' - then called ''The Gay Divorce'' - in 1928.
        His other films include ''Numbered Men,'' ''Secrets of a Secretary,'' ''Today We Live,'' ''Follow the Fleet,'' ''The Awful Truth,'' ''Nightmare,'' ''I Wake Up Screaming,'' ''Conflict,'' ''Pickup on South Street,'' ''Special Delivery'' and ''Boy on a Dolphin.''
        Mr. Taylor was born into a theatrical family on Jan. 1, 1902, in New York. His father was the playwright Charles A. Taylor, his mother the actress Laurette Taylor. Because of the eminence of his parents, he got to know the leading writers, artists, editors and stage personalities of the time.
        After refusing a job as a cub reporter on The New York World, Mr. Taylor served as one of the first editors of ''Talk of the Town'' in The New Yorker.
        His first play was ''Don't Tell George,'' which opened and closed in 1928. After another unsuccessful effort, ''Lipstick,'' Mr. Taylor wrote ''The Gay Divorce.'' His television work included episodes of ''Climax,'' ''77 Sunset Strip,'' ''Playhouse of Stars'' and ''Batman.'' He was a founding member of the Writers Guild of America, West, and served one term as its president.
        Mr. Taylor's books, ''Joy Ride,'' ''What Sank the Dreamboat'' and ''Blood and Thunder,'' the last a memoir of his parents, are lively, anecdotal portraits of the glittering New York literary life of the 1920's.
        He is survived by two daughters: Audrey Wallace of Berkeley, Calif., and Laurel Dancis of Pleasant Hills, Calif.; a son, Andy Taylor, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Marguarite Courtney, whose address was unavailable, and five grandchildren.
        DWIGHT TAYLOR DIES
      