
       Charles Stewart Desmond, who was Chief Judge of New York from 1960 through 1966, died Monday at Mercy Hospital in Buffalo. He was 90 years old and lived on a farm in Eden, N.Y., near Buffalo.
        Charles Stewart Desmond, who was Chief Judge of New York from 1960 through 1966, died Monday at Mercy Hospital in Buffalo. He was 90 years old and lived on a farm in Eden, N.Y., near Buffalo.
        In his quarter-century on the bench, Judge Desmond spent all but one year on the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court. He bypassed the long apprenticeship of County Court, Supreme Court and Appellate Division served by most of his colleagues.
        Judge Desmond made the move from his Buffalo law practice to the Court of Appeals almost in a single stride. A lifelong Democrat, he was appointed by Gov. Herbert H. Lehman to a Supreme Court vacancy on Jan. 5, 1940.
        His political sponsor was Paul E. Fitzpatrick, who was later to become Democratic State chairman. Mr. Fitzpatrick tried to persuade western New York Republicans to endorse the lawyer for a full elective term on the Supreme Court in the fall of 1940. He failed, but succeeded in winning him the Democratic nomination for a vacancy on the Court of Appeals. Praised by Moynihan
        ''Charles Desmond's life spanned almost half the life of the United States Constitution,'' Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat, said yesterday in Washington, where Judge Desmond had served on the Senator's judicial screening panel. ''Few in all that history have done half so much to sustain and enhance a glorious constitutional tradition.''
        During his years on the bench, Judge Desmond was generally regarded as a leader of the liberal wing of the court, but his decisions and opinions often defied easy categorization. On occasions he was criticized for his judicial views by some of those of both his political faith - Democratic - and his religious faith - Roman Catholic - criticisms he survived with equanimity.
        Judge Desmond stepped down from the court at the mandatory retirement age of 70 on Dec. 31, 1966. He returned to private practice and to teaching at the University of New York at Buffalo Law School. He also taught at Cornell Law School and, for a time, conducted a ''summer seminar'' for appellate judges from across the country at New York University.
        He was a member of the board of International Controls Corporation until last year, when he became a legal consultant to the company. A Deep Interest in Reform
        He took a deep interest in judicial reform and tried for years to abolish jury trials in civil cases, a move he was confident would unclog court calendars.
        Some of Judge Desmond's decisions reinforced landmark rulings by the United States Supreme Court.
        In a 1965 case, he followed the pattern of the Clarence Earl Gideon case, in which the United States Supreme Court ruled that the government must assign lawyers to all criminal defendants. In a majority opinion, Judge Desmond wrote that criminal defendants in all state courts must be told in plain language that a lawyer will be assigned to them if they cannot afford to hire one.
        He was also the author of two books, ''Sharp Quillets of the Law'' and ''From the Courthouse Window.''
        Judge Desmond was born Dec. 2, 1896, in the room above his father's saloon near the Lake Erie docks in Buffalo. After earning an A.B. and an M.A. at Canisius College, he obtained a law degree at the University of Buffalo in 1920.
        During World War I Judge Desmond served as a second lieutenant in the marine air arm. However, he caught influenza during training and did not get overseas before the Armistice.
        A family man, whose children all live in or near Eden, he took particular pride in his son, Charles Ryan Desmond, a Buffalo lawyer who was elected Justice of the Peace in Eden in late 1950's on the Democratic ticket in an area where Republicans predominated five to one. Ryan, as his family called him, was killed in an automobile accident during a blizzard two years ago.
        Judge Desmond's wife, the former Helen Ryan, died in 1958.
        He is survived by three daughters, Sheila Landon, Kathleen Hughes and Patricia Williams, all of Eden, and 12 grandchildren.
      