
       Jules Bergman, science editor of ABC News for more than 25 years, was found dead yesterday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 57 years old.  The police said Mr. Bergman's body was found by a maid, Argelia Torres, in a bathtub with scalding water running. A spokeswoman for the police, Sgt.
        Jules Bergman, science editor of ABC News for more than 25 years, was found dead yesterday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 57 years old.  The police said Mr. Bergman's body was found by a maid, Argelia Torres, in a bathtub with scalding water running. A spokeswoman for the police, Sgt. Diane Kubler, said that the drain was open and that Mr. Bergman appeared to have died of natural causes.
        An autopsy is to be performed to determine the cause of death, she said.
        Mr. Bergman's doctors diagnosed and removed a meningioma, or nonmalignant brain tumor, about 10 years ago. Since then, he had undergone several operations to remove additional noncancerous growths from his skull. The police said he had also been taking medication to control seizures. Coverage With Dedication
        In the early years of the space program, Mr. Bergman seemed to be almost as much of a celebrity as the astronauts he covered.
        He was the first network correspondent assigned to report on science and space. After the National Aeronautics and Space Administration had chosen the first seven astronauts, he covered the subject with such passion that he spent almost as much time with the astronauts at Cape Canaveral, Fla., as he did at home in New York.
        He covered all 54 manned American space flights, from the first Mercury launching to the Challenger disaster last year.
        He said he wanted to give his audiences ''not an ivory-tower discussion of science, but an on-the-spot report of discoveries, which are changing the lives of human beings daily.''
        To bring the space program home to television viewers, Mr. Bergman often acted out his assignments, putting himself in the astronauts' places. Simulation of Conditions
        He went through the same exercise regimen that the astronauts followed while training for their flights. To demonstrate how they prepared for lift-offs, he once endured a centrifuge experiment in which he sustained a force of 5 G's, five times the normal pull of gravity. He called the experience ''exhilarating.''
        While covering the Aurora 7 flight of M. Scott Carpenter - the second American to orbit the Earth - Mr. Bergman had doctors place him in a harness with sensors identical to those that monitored the astronauts. The instruments showed he was under as much stress during his 12 hours on the air as Mr. Carpenter was during the five hours of his three orbits.
        The space program was not the only subject Mr. Bergman covered. He also wrote or appeared in documentaries on airplane safety, nuclear power, the hazards of asbestos, heart transplants and the new technologies of the space age. His was the first American voice transmitted to Europe by the Telstar satellite. Emmy and Other Awards
        Mr. Bergman turned to the sky for escape from city life and the pressures of network television, earning a private pilot's license and describing his fears, frustrations and delights in ''Anyone Can Fly,'' which was published in 1964 and revised twice. He also wrote ''90 Seconds to Space - the Story of the X-15'' in 1960.
        In 1974, Mr. Bergman won an Emmy Award for ''Closeup on Fire,'' and his ''Closeup: Crashes'' was nominated by the Writers Guild as the best script of 1974 for a current-events documentary.
        Mr. Bergman was born in Manhattan. He attended City College, Indiana University and Columbia College, and, in 1960, completed a Sloan-Rockefeller Advanced Science Writing Fellowship at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
        He joined Time magazine in 1949 and later he worked briefly at CBS News before joining the short-lived WFDR-FM in New York as a writer, newscaster and, later, as assistant news director. Mr. Bergman joined ABC News as a news writer in 1954.
        Surviving are his wife, Joanna; two brothers, Cyril, of Fitchburg, Mass., and Philip, of Wayne, N.J., and three children by a previous marriage, to Joanne Skowron of Nyack, N.Y., David, of Manhattan, Beth, of Palo Alto, Calif., and Karen, of Manhattan.
        The funeral is scheduled for Sunday at 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell's, Madison Avenue and 81st Street.
      