
       Henry Bohn Hass, a specialist in organic chemistry who is credited with the discovery of gas chromatography, one of chemistry's most powerful analytic tools, died of pnuemonia yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital, Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Queens.
        Henry Bohn Hass, a specialist in organic chemistry who is credited with the discovery of gas chromatography, one of chemistry's most powerful analytic tools, died of pnuemonia yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital, Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Queens.
        Dr. Hass established himself as an authority in various phases of his field, including the study of active carbon, nitration, chlorination and fluorination. He is also credited with the invention and development of the heat and mix method of thermal chlorination. Another important invention was the vapor-phase nitration of saturated hydrocarbons, which made commercially available a large number of valuable products, including explosives, based on nitroparaffin, a family of chemical compounds.
        During World II, he joined other scientists in working on the development of the atomic bomb in the top-secret Manhattan Project.
        He was the recipient of the Perkins Medal of the Society of Chemical Industries and of the gold medal of the American Institute of Chemists.
        After years of teaching, Dr. Hass entered the field of industrial chemistry in 1949 when he became manager of research and development for the General Aniline and Film Corporation. In 1952, he became president of the Sugar Research Foundation, an industry-sponsored organization dedicated to discovering new uses for sugar. He later became associated with M. W. Kellogg, as director of chemical research, where he remained until he retired in 1970.
        He joined the faculty of Purdue University in 1928 as an assistant professor of chemistry and was head of the chemistry department at Purdue from 1932 to 1949.
        He was born in Huntington, Ohio, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa and magna cum laude from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1921. He received an M.A. in 1923 and a doctorate in 1925.
        With him at his death was his companion of many years, Dr. Berta Baer.
        Dr. Hass is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Bowers of Columbus, Ohio; four children from his marriage to the late Georgia Mae Herancourt: Dr. Robert H. of Fullerton, Calif.; Charlotte F. Hudgin of Princeton Junction, N.J.; Dr. Thomas W. of West Lafayette, Ind.; Richard F. of Los Angeles, Calif; 13 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      