
       Bryce N. Harlow, a Presidential counselor and speechwriter who held key positions in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations, died today. He was 70 years old.
        Bryce N. Harlow, a Presidential counselor and speechwriter who held key positions in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations, died today. He was 70 years old.
        ''He was quite a man, a political activist who spent a lifetime in service to his country,'' Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, said in a brief eulogy on the Senate floor today. ''He never hesitated to ffer his services when problems on Capitol Hill or the White House seemed too big to solve.''
        Officials at Arlington Hospital in nearby Virginia said Mr. Harlow died of chronic obstructive lung diseases.
        An Oklahoman who came to Washington nearly 50 years ago, Mr. Harlow became a familiar figure in government circles, trying to push the White House program through an often unfriendly Congress. When not serving one or another President over more than two decades, Mr. Harlow worked as a lobbyist in Washington for Procter & Gamble. He retired from the household products company in 1978.
        He was a gentle, courtly man known for a soft-sell approach to politics. At 5 feet 4 inches tall, he often used his height as a source of self-depreciating humor. ''Don't wait for the rest of me,'' he once told a group of newspaper editors. ''I'm standing up.'' Nixon's First Appointment
        Mr. Harlow was the first person appointed to the White House staff after Richard M. Nixon was elected President in 1968, handling the delicate job of Mr. Nixon's relations with a Democrat-laden Congress. Mr. Harlow also served as a Presidential counselor with the assignment of devising long-term strategy on domestic problems.
        He quit the Government after a year to return to his private lobbyist's job, but Mr. Nixon tapped him to return to the White House when the Watergate scandals forced resignations of key staff members.
        Earlier, Mr. Harlow served in the Eisenhower Administration, starting as an administrative assistant and finally eight years later as deputy assistant for Congressional affairs.
        As a member of Eisenhower's legislative team, Mr. Harlow was frequently credited with knowing more about the legislative process and what made it tick than anyone else in Washington.
        He was also a speechwriter, known as Eisenhower's ''meat and potatoes man'' after satisfying the President's demand for a ''meat-and-potatoes speech people can understand.'' Awarded the Medal of Freedom
        Although he was a Republican, Mr. Harlow was successful in communicating with the two Texas Democrats who ran Congress then: the Speaker of the House, Sam Rayburn, and the Senate majority leader, Lyndon B. Johnson.
        President Reagan awarded Mr. Harlow the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 1981.
        Bryce Nathaniel Harlow was born in Oklahoma City on Aug. 11, 1916, and graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1936, earning a Phi Beta Kappa key and a degree in political science.
        He was a Democrat when he first came to Washington, arriving in 1938 for a job as an assistant librarian in the House of Representatives.
        After serving five years in the World War II Army, rising from lieutenant to lieutenant colonel, Mr. Harlow returned to a job as staff assistant and then chief clerk of the House Armed Services Committee.
        His first wife and the mother of his three children, Betty Larimore Harlow, died in 1982. He married Sarah Jane Studebaker in 1983.
        BRYCE HARLOW DIES
      