
       Dmitri Kabalevsky, a Soviet composer best known for his suite ''The Comedians'' and the Overture to his opera ''Colas Breugnon,'' has died at the age of 82, Tass, the official Soviet press agency, said yesterday. Tass provided no details of Mr. Kabalevsky's death but said that leaders of the Soviet Government and the Communist Party had signed an obituary describing him as ''innovative and brilliant.
        Dmitri Kabalevsky, a Soviet composer best known for his suite ''The Comedians'' and the Overture to his opera ''Colas Breugnon,'' has died at the age of 82, Tass, the official Soviet press agency, said yesterday. Tass provided no details of Mr. Kabalevsky's death but said that leaders of the Soviet Government and the Communist Party had signed an obituary describing him as ''innovative and brilliant.''
        Over the course of a career that spanned 60 years, Mr. Kabalevsky wrote five operas, four symphonies, concertos for piano, violin and cello, a large Requiem, various cantatas, chamber music, songs and many works for children. He was also a conductor, a pianist, a critic and an educator.
        At its best, Mr. Kabalevsky's work is distinguished by a glittering elegance and grace that are rare in Soviet music. The musicologist Boris Schwarz, in his book ''Music and Musical Life in Soviet Russia 1917-1981,'' called Mr. Kabalevsky's compositions ''sparkling, transparent, full of Gallic gaiety, probably as French as a Russian can get.''
        ''Essentially, Kabalevsky's musical language is conservative, and it has changed little over the years,'' Mr. Schwarz continued. ''But it exudes such good humor and is built with so much skill that the listener is carried away, despite some critical reservations.'' Figure in Musical Politics
        It was generally agreed that Mr. Kabalevsky was at his best in his lighter pieces. His work lacked the fervent spiritual intensity that distinguished the best music of Shostakovich, and many critics found it frivolous; more serious compositions, such as the ''Requiem to the Memories of Those Who Were Killed in the Struggle Against Fascism'' (1963), were generally judged ponderous and overextended.
        Other critics objected to the leading role Mr. Kabalevsky played in Soviet musical politics. As the principal editor of the music magazine Sovetskaya Muzyka during the 1940's, he acted as the main party spokesman on musical policy. When Andrei Zhdanov, Stalin's culture chief, denounced most of the best Soviet composers for ''formalism'' in 1948 - the list included Shostakovich, Prokofiev, Khachaturian and several others - Kabalevsky's name was conspicuous in its absence. His music remained comfortably within the limits of socialist realism, and he was a stern critic of experimentalism and the avant-garde.
        Dmitri Borisovich Kabalevsky was born in St. Petersburg on Dec. 30, 1904. He began his musical studies at an early age, and showed considerable promise as a pianist. In 1918, the family moved to Moscow, where the young man studied at the Scriabin Musical Institute. In 1925, he entered the Moscow Conservatory where he worked with Nikolai Miaskovsky. His first - and in some ways most daring - works date from this period: ''Three Poems of Blok'' (1927), the String Quartet No. 1 (1928) and the first Piano Concerto (1928). Taught at Moscow Conservatory
        In 1932, he helped established the Moscow branch of the Union of Soviet Composers. The same year he joined the Moscow Conservatory as an assistant professor of composition; he was elevated to a full professor in 1939. Throughout the 1930's he worked as a senior editor at a music publishing house in Moscow.
        These were also Mr. Kabalevsky's most productive years as a composer. Although it remains all but unknown in the West, Romain Rolland's novel ''Colas Breugnon'' had already reportedly gone through some 120 Russian editions by the time Mr. Kabalevsky set it to music in 1936. Although the opera was very successful when it was first performed in 1938, Mr. Kabalevsky was apparently displeased with its dramatic structure, for he revised it considerably in 1953 and again in 1969. The Overture has remained popular on symphonic programs throughout the world. In 1940, Mr. Kabalevsky's suite ''The Comedians'' was completed; it, too, became popular.
        During World War II, Mr. Kabalevsky wrote three large works of nationalist inspiration - the cantata ''The Mighty Homeland'' (1941-42); the choral work ''The People's Avengers'' (1942), and the opera ''Into the Fire'' (1942). He later withdrew the latter work, although he used some of its music in his opera ''The Taras Family'' (1947). His later works include the opera ''Nikita Vershinin'' (1955), the operetta ''The Sisters'' (1967) and an oratorio entitled ''Letter to the 30th Century'' (1972).
      