
       J. Truman Bidwell, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and an exchange member for 55 years, died Tuesday in the Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital after suffering a stroke two weeks earlier. He was 83 years old and lived in Naples.
        J. Truman Bidwell, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and an exchange member for 55 years, died Tuesday in the Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital after suffering a stroke two weeks earlier. He was 83 years old and lived in Naples.
        Mr. Bidwell was elected chairman of the exchange in May 1961, the first independent broker to be so honored.
        As chairman, he was in charge of trading on the floor of the exchange and called upon to arbitrate disputes. The position, while influential, did not involve any administrative reponsibility and was unpaid, except for a fee for attending governors meetings. Indicted and Cleared
        Mr. Bidwell resigned as chairman in February 1962 after his indictment by a Federal grand jury on charges of evading almost $60,000 in income taxes.
        He was acquitted of the charge in January 1963 but was censured four months later by the stock exchange for giving gifts valued at more than $20,000 to personnel of brokerage concerns with which he did business without obtaining exchange permission. The exchange prohibits employees from giving gifts without special permission.
        Mr. Bidwell remained an independent stockbroker until he retired last year.
        He was born in Binghamton, N.Y., the son of a building contractor, who moved the family to Portland, Ore., in 1914. He graduated from Lehigh University in 1925. A Seat on Exchange
        In 1927 he joined P. W. Chapman & Company, a New York investment banking concern. From 1931 to 1941, he was engaged in the reorganization of public utility companies. In 1941 he bought a seat on the stock exchange for $29,000, largely with borrowed money.
        During World War II Mr. Bidwell was a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force.
        At the stock exchange, Mr. Bidwell became an independent floor broker specializing in institutional business in 1945. From 1953 to 1958, he was a member of the exchange arbitration committee, responsible for good conduct on the floor.
        In 1958 he was elected to the board of governors for a three-year term. In 1959 he was elected vice chairman of the board and the following year was re-elected.
        He was a member of a number of clubs including, the Metropolitan and the Union League.
        Mr. Bidwell is survived by his wife, the former Mary Kane; a son, Truman Jr., of Manhattan; a daughter, Barbara Manuel of Orleans, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held Tuesday at 4:30 P.M. at St. James' Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue.
        J. TRUMAN BIDWELL, 83, DIES
      