
       Thomas R. Fortune, a prominent black political leader and state legislator who represented the 55th Assembly District of Brooklyn from 1969 to 1982, died Dec. 30 at the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center. He was 69 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Thomas R. Fortune, a prominent black political leader and state legislator who represented the 55th Assembly District of Brooklyn from 1969 to 1982, died Dec. 30 at the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center. He was 69 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Fortune, a party regular from the Bedford-Stuyvesant section, held sway at the Unity Democratic Club on Ralph Avenue for 18 years.
        In Albany, he was a political champion of blacks, other minority groups and the poor. Mr. Fortune advocated advancing their political rights through traditional political channels, as other groups had done.
        Mr. Fortune became a spokesman for the elderly as chairman of the Assembly Committee on the Aging. Strong Environmental Record
        A coalition of environmental groups, rating legislators for the first time in 1972, cited him and three others ''best'' for having voted for all 10 key pieces of environmental legislation since 1969.
        Mr. Fortune was chairman of the statewide Council of Elected Black Democratic Officials, which spoke out on budgets for services for the poor.
        In 1968, Mr. Fortune managed the successful Congressional candidacy of Shirley Chisholm in Brooklyn.
        He and other district leaders went through a series of changing allegiances that came to a head in 1976. Mrs. Chisholm was seeking renomination against a challenge by City Councilman Samuel D. Wright. Mr. Fortune wound up in the Chisholm camp. His career ended when Mrs. Chisholm announced her retirement from the House in 1982 and he lost in a rerun of a primary to William F. Boyland.
        Mr. Fortune was born in Suffolk, Va., and attended grammar and high school there before arriving in Brooklyn at the age of 19. In World War II, he served with the Army in the Pacific.
        As a businessman, he organized Gateway Stores Inc., businesses in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He was a life member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Council of Negro Women, a trustee of the Bethany Baptist Church on Sumner Avenue, a member of the Brooklyn Urban League and past chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus.
        Surviving are his wife, Marjorie; a son, Roger; a daughter, Marcella Simmons, and two grandchildren, all of Brooklyn.
      