
       Sir Hugh Carleton Greene, a former director general of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a brother of Graham Greene, the novelist, died of cancer Thursday at a London hospital. He was 76 years old. Sir Hugh headed the BBC television and radio networks from 1960 until 1969. He joined the BBC in 1940 as head of its wartime broadcasts to Germany after having served as chief correspondent in Berlin for The Daily Telegraph until shortly before the outbreak of World War
        Sir Hugh Carleton Greene, a former director general of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a brother of Graham Greene, the novelist, died of cancer Thursday at a London hospital. He was 76 years old. Sir Hugh headed the BBC television and radio networks from 1960 until 1969. He joined the BBC in 1940 as head of its wartime broadcasts to Germany after having served as chief correspondent in Berlin for The Daily Telegraph until shortly before the outbreak of World War II.
        Sir Hugh's years at the BBC were marked by rapid change. He sought to dispel the BBC's rather stuffy image by introducing a more relaxed program content that included a weekly satire on current events, ''That Was the Week That Was,'' which was later adapted for American television.
        On that and other programs he permitted sharp attacks on British establishment figures and even barbs directed at the royal family, theretofore sacred topics not subject to humor or criticism on the BBC. Son of a Headmaster
        During his years with the BBC the service, which enjoyed a monopoly on television until 1954, was exposed to competition as independent television stations went into operation. The BBC responded by opening a second channel and becoming more adventurous in programming.
        The son of a headmaster of Berkhamsted School, a public school founded in the reign of Henry VIII, Hugh Greene was one of six children; another brother was Dr. Raymond Greene, a noted physician and mountain climber.
        Hugh Greene received a master's degree from Merton College at Oxford and in 1934 went to Berlin for The Daily Telegraph. He was expelled in May 1939 from Germany and reported from Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Turkey, the Netherlands, Belgium and France before returning to Britain the next year.
        Sir Hugh was married four times. He had two sons from his first marriage to Helga Guinness and two sons from his second marriage to Elaine Shaplen. His third wife, Tatjana Sais, died in 1981. His fourth wife, Sarah Grahame, whom he married in 1984, survives, along with his sons.
      