
       Glenway Wescott, one of the last of the major expatriate American writers who lived in France in the 1920's and 30's, died of a stroke Sunday night at his home in Rosemont, N.J. He was 85 years old.
        Glenway Wescott, one of the last of the major expatriate American writers who lived in France in the 1920's and 30's, died of a stroke Sunday night at his home in Rosemont, N.J. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Wescott, who was a former president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, achieved literary acclaim when he was 26, with the publication of his second book, ''The Grandmothers.'' The novel, the saga of a pioneer family transplanted from New York State to Wisconsin in 1846, was the Harper Prize Novel for 1927 and became a best-seller. Constantly in print, the book was re-issued last year by Arbor House.
        ''He was a very important writer, very much in this country like E. M. Forster in England,'' said a professor of English at Trenton State College, Hugh Ford, who is writing a biography of Mr. Wescott. ''He wrote only a few novels, some short stories, essays and reviews, but everything he wrote was done in high style - almost Flaubert-like in certain ways, and one of the finest stylists in recent years.''
        Mr. Wescott was born April 10, 1901, in Kewaskum, Wis. His ''Good-Bye, Wisconsin,'' published in 1928, was a collection of stories about the people and the characteristics of the region of his birth. Despite that literary farewell to his native state, he returned there a few years later, in ''The Babe's Bed,'' an allegory that revealed his uneasy, oscillating attitude toward his home and toward an America that he said ''is not a rich country, not in real values, not yet.''
        In 1940, Mr. Wescott published ''The Pilgrim Hawk,'' a love story that takes place in a single afternoon in the French countryside during the 1920's. The novel, which some critics consider his best, was republished by Harper & Row in 1966.
        His last novel, ''Apartment in Athens,'' the story of an Athenian family during the German occupation, was published in 1945.
        Professor Ford said Mr. Wescott wrote at least two subsequent novels that were not published. In France 8 Years
        After dropping out of the University of Chicago, Mr. Wescott lived for a year in New Mexico and then went to Germany, where he wrote much of his first novel, ''The Apple of the Eye.'' He lived in France eight years, before returning to New York in 1934.
        He was a friend of Katherine Anne Porter, Somerset Maugham and Thornton Wilder. He wrote about them in ''Images of Truth: Remembrances and Criticism'' (Harper & Row, 1962), a book in which he also wrote about Colette, Isak Dinesen and Thomas Mann, with whom he was also acquainted.
        Mr. Wescott is survived by a brother, Lloyd Bruce Westcott, also of Rosemont, and three sisters: Beulah Hagan of St. Louis, Elizabeth Hotchkiss of Philadelphia and Kathryn Jacobs of Beverly Hills, Calif.
        A memorial service is to be held March 11 at 5 P.M. at the American Academy of Arts and Letters, 633 West 155th Street, in Manhattan.
      