
       Edwin McArthur, a conductor, accompanist, singing coach, composer and biographer of Kirsten Flagstad, died yesterday at his studio in Manhattan, immediately after giving a lesson. He was 79 years old and lived in Hackensack, N.J.
        Edwin McArthur, a conductor, accompanist, singing coach, composer and biographer of Kirsten Flagstad, died yesterday at his studio in Manhattan, immediately after giving a lesson. He was 79 years old and lived in Hackensack, N.J.
        Over the course of a career that spanned half a century, Mr. McArthur was closely associated with many important singers, including Ezio Pinza, John Charles Thomas and, particularly, the Norwegian soprano Kirsten Flagstad, who chose him to accompany her first American tour in 1935. In 1941, he became perhaps the first American-born conductor to lead a work at the Metropolitan Opera House when he presided over Miss Flagstad and Lauritz Melchior in ''Tristan und Isolde.''
        Of Mr. McArthur's interpretation of the score, Olin Downes, then the music critic of The New York Times, observed: ''He read it with much passion, conviction and feeling for the color and excitement in Wagner's music. There is no question of his talent for conducting and for opera.'' Studied at Juilliard
        Mr. McArthur was born in Denver on Sept. 24, 1907. He began playing the piano professionally while still in his teens, eventually moving to New York to study at the Juilliard School and to work as an organist and coach. He was soon one of the most successful accompanists in the field, and his best work, especially in the American songs that he championed, is unusually poetic. Miss Flagstad recorded two of Mr. McArthur's songs - ''Night'' and ''We Have Turned Again Home'' - in the early 1950's.
        In 1966, Mr. McArthur wrote ''Flagstad: A Personal Memoir,'' which tells the story of his long friendship with the soprano and of the criticism she received when she returned to the United States after spending World War II in Nazi-occupied Norway. Mr. McArthur's career was both helped and hindered by Miss Flagstad's support, since some institutions resented her insistence upon his engagement to conduct her appearances.
        For 23 years, Mr. McArthur was the music director of the St. Louis Municipal Opera. He also conducted the Harrisburg (Pa.) Symphony from 1950 to 1974. From 1967 to 1972, he was the director of the Eastman School of Music Opera Department. In 1976, he conducted Wagner's ''Die Walkure'' at the Teatro San Carlo in Naples. He coached privately in recent years; the soprano Hildegard Behrens worked with him before singing Brunnhilde in Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Blanche McArthur.
        There is to be a memorial service tomorrow morning at 10:15 at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      