
       Libya sought to acquire the ability to produce nuclear weapons in 1981 negotiations with Edwin P. Wilson, a former Central Intelligence Agency official, and other arms dealers, according to a report made public today.
        Libya sought to acquire the ability to produce nuclear weapons in 1981 negotiations with Edwin P. Wilson, a former Central Intelligence Agency official, and other arms dealers, according to a report made public today.
        The report, an annual review of the spread of nuclear weapons, was by Leonard S. Spector of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
        The study also asserts that Pakistan may already have acquired the ability to make the components for a nuclear weapon and that India has taken steps to obtain plutonium not subject to international controls.
        In the account of Libyan efforts, Mr. Spector said Libyan officials met at least twice in 1981 with Mr. Wilson and two associates. Mr. Wilson, who was later convicted of smuggling arms to Libya, is in prison.
        At the first meeting, the Libyans indicated they were unsatisfied with information they had received. Mr. Wilson and his associates thereupon gave the Libyans a plan for the ''Mickey Project,'' which would have provided an installation to produce nuclear weapons and a testing site. Mr. Spector described the plan as an obvious hoax.
        The report also said the Shah of Iran had initiated a secret program of research on nuclear weapons in the late 1970's in parallel with his nuclear power program. Mr. Spector said the weapon plans had probably been set back by the flight of personnel at the time of the 1979 Revolution.
        On Pakistan, Mr. Spector said the ''the weight of evidence'' suggested that Pakistan ''can now fabricate all the necessary components for nuclear arms.'' The Reagan Administration has certified that Pakistan does not possess a nuclear weapon. The certification has been required by Congress as a condition for providing foreign aid.
        Mr. Spector also said that India had recently extracted plutonium from the spent fuel of a reactor that is not under international safeguards. The spent fuel was hauled 1,000 miles by rail to a reprocessing plant near Bombay.
      