
       Alistair MacLean, author of ''The Guns of Navarone'' and one of the biggest-selling adventure writers in the world, died of heart failure yesterday in Munich, West Germany. He was 64 years old and lived near Geneva.
        Alistair MacLean, author of ''The Guns of Navarone'' and one of the biggest-selling adventure writers in the world, died of heart failure yesterday in Munich, West Germany. He was 64 years old and lived near Geneva.
        A spokesman for his British publisher, William Collins Sons & Company, said the Scottish-born author had a stroke three weeks ago while visiting a friend in Munich and died in a hospital there.
        Mr. MacLean wrote more than two dozen books, most of them war adventures or thrillers whose action spanned continents and often took place in airplanes, on ships or in nuclear submarines. They sold millions of copies worldwide, selling especially well in the United States, where he has been published since 1956. A new novel, ''Santorini,'' a story of espionage in the Aegean, is scheduled for publication next month by Doubleday, his longtime American publisher.
        Although many of his books described violent action, Mr. MacLean, according to Charles Poore, a reviewer for The New York Times, also wrote ''passages of wry comedy in the midst of chaos, death and general destruction.'' Another reviewer for The Times said Mr. MacLean wrote ''some of the most stunning suspense to which I've been exposed.'' Novel Based on Experience
        Mr. MacLean's first novel, ''H.M.S. Ulysses,'' was set aboard a British naval convoy ship during World War II and was based on the author's experiences in the Royal Navy during the war. That book, which he wrote in three months in 1955 while teaching school, became a huge international success. It is also one of the few MacLean books that was not largely the product of his vivid imagination.
        His imagination conceived the Mediterrean island of Navarone, the setting for his novel about British saboteurs who undertake to destroy a seemingly impregnable German fortress in the southern Aegean. The book was made into a successful motion picture by Carl Foreman in 1961, starring Gregory Peck, David Niven and Anthony Quinn. Seventeen years later, Mr. Foreman produced a sequel from Mr. MacLean's ''Force 10 From Navarone,'' published in 1968, but the movie, with Harrison Ford and Robert Shaw, was much less successful than the original.
        Other MacLean books include ''Night Without End'' (1960), ''Ice Station Zebra'' (1963), ''Puppet on a Chain'' (1969), ''The Way to Dusty Death'' (1973), ''Goodbye California'' (1978), ''Athabasca'' (1980), ''San Andreas'' (1985) and ''The Lonely Sea'' (1986), a collection of stories. Pseudonym Was Ian Stuart
        Mr. MacLean also wrote detective stories, two of them, ''The Black Shrike'' and ''The Satan Bug,'' published in the 1960's under the pseudonym Ian Stuart. He also wrote children's books.
        Many MacLean novels were made into motion pictures, including ''The Secret Ways'' with Richard Widmark, about an attempt to return to England a British nuclear expert who defected to the Russians; ''Fear Is the Key,'' a 1973 movie with Barry Newman and Suzy Kendall, and ''When Eight Bells Toll,'' about the disappearance of ships carrying gold bullion, starring Anthony Hopkins, Robert Morley and Jack Hawkins. While those films often did well abroad, few were box-office hits in the United States.
        Mr. MacLean also wrote the screenplay for ''When Eight Bells Toll,'' and he wrote several original screenplays, including ''Breakheart Pass'' (1976), a western with Charles Bronson and Richard Crenna. After writing the screenplay for ''Where Eagles Dare,'' he wrote the novel of the same name. He rarely visited the movie sets, he said, explaining: ''I object to the sight of 200 people sitting round seeming to do nothing. I guess it's my Scots soul.'' 'A Natural Storyteller'
        Elliott Kastner, the American film producer who talked Mr. MacLean into writing his first screenplay, said of the author: ''MacLean is a natural storyteller. He is a master of adventure. All his books are conceived in cinematic terms. They hardly need to be adapted for the screen; when you read them, the screen is in front of your mind.''
        Mr. MacLean also conceived an adventure drama for television, ''The Hostage Towers,'' about a gang of terrorists who seize the Eiffel Tower and demand ransom. That film, starring Douglas Fairbanks Jr. and Billy Dee Williams, was broadcast by CBS. Network executives asked that the author substitute the Statue of Liberty for the Eiffel Tower, but Mr. MacLean refused. He did not write the script, but the characters, the idea and the plot were his. ''I don't much care for the television format,'' the soft-spoken author said. ''I write novels - you get someone else to handle the actual script.''
        An astute businessman, Mr. MacLean, who spoke in a thick Scottish burrrarely gave interviews. Writing from 5 A.M. until 1 P.M., he would complete a book in a little more than a month.
        Born in 1922 in the Scottish Highlands, Mr. MacLean joined the Royal Navy in 1941 and served five years. After the war he was graduated with a degree in English from Glasgow University, then taught school near the city. Writing short stories in his spare time, he won a short story contest, which led a book publisher to encourage him to write a novel. The result was ''H.M.S. Ulysses,'' and the start of a successful new career.
        He is survived by three sons.
      