
       Edgar Daniel Nixon, who selected the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lead the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955, died here Wednesday night. He was 87 years old.
        Edgar Daniel Nixon, who selected the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lead the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955, died here Wednesday night. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Nixon died at the Baptist Medical Center, where he was hospitalized Feb. 16 for treatment of respiratory and heart ailments.
        He was the former president of the state unit of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and principal mover behind the bus boycott, which began after Rosa Parks, who is black, refused to move to the back of a bus and was arrested under a segregation law.
        In a recent interview, Mr. Nixon described his meeting with Dr. King this way: ''I went to see him and said, 'You've got to take the lead in this thing.' Martin King was young and smart, and he had a wonderful speaking voice. I knew it would take somebody young and intelligent with leadership ability.''
        The bus boycott was the first major protest to follow the Supreme Court ruling in 1954 that outlawed segregated schools and set the stage for the black protests that led to the civil rights laws of the 1960's. He Helped Organize Porters
        In the 1920's, when he was a Pullman porter on the train from Montgomery to Chicago, Mr. Nixon joined A. Philip Randolph in helping to organize the first successful black labor union, the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
        When Mr. Nixon became president of the Voters League of Montgomery in 1944, he organized a march of 750 blacks to the Montgomery County Courthouse, where they demanded to be allowed to qualify to vote.
        In 1954, Mr. Nixon was the first black to campaign for political office in Montgomery County since Reconstruction. He ran for county executive committee of the Democratic Party, losing by a narrow margin.
        Afterward he became active in the Montgomery Improvement Association, a local black group, and he insisted that it become more active. He Tells Parks to Call Him
        He had met Mrs. Parks, a seamstress at a local department store, when he worked with the N.A.A.C.P. After Mrs. Parks, also a member of the N.A.A.C.P., told him that she had been pushed from a city bus by a white driver when she sat in the front, Mr. Nixon said, ''I told her if she was ever arrested in such an incident, call me.''
        ''When they did arrest her, it was on one of those old Jim Crow segregationist laws,'' he said. ''I knew then that something could be done.'' Mr. Nixon put up bail for Mrs. Parks and history was written.
        In David J. Garrow's ''Bearing the Cross,'' published in 1986 by William Morrow, the author quoted Mr. Nixon as telling Mrs. Parks: ''This is the case. We can boycott the bus lines with this and at the same time go to the Supreme Court.'' Mr. Garrow continued: ''Mrs. Parks was not immediately convinced that her arrest could be the spark of all of that, but Nixon's enthusiasm soon persuaded her. Although her husband was extremely fearful of possible white reprisals, Mrs. Parks told Nixon, 'If you think it is all right, I'll go along with you.' '' Leaflet for the Newspaper
        After he talked to Dr. King about leading the boycott, it was Mr. Nixon who telephoned the Montgomery newspaper, The Advertiser, and told a reporter that black preachers would be announcing the boycott from their pulpits on Sunday. Then Mr. Nixon arranged for a mimeographed leaflet describing the boycott to be delivered to the newspaper's offices.
        ''We had a long, hard row to hoe, but we did it with persistence, great leadership and belief in ourselves and God,'' Mr. Nixon said. After he retired as a railroad porter, Mr. Nixon became director of a local public housing project. In recent years, after he received an honorary doctorate from Alabama State University here, he was known affectionately as ''Dr. E. D.'' His Home on Landmark Register
        He was honored by a number of organizations, receiving the Walter White Award from the N.A.A.C.P. in New York in 1985. In 1981, he gave to Alabama State University his historic papers and awards. Also that year, his home at 647 Clinton Street in Montgomery was placed on the Alabama Register of Landmarks and Heritage by the state historical commission.
        Surviving are his wife, Arlet Nixon of Montgomery; a son, Edgar D. Nixon Jr. of Los Angeles; four sisters, Jeraldine Nixon, Mary Nixon, Elizabeth Nixon and Polly Nixon, all of Montgomery, and a brother, Henry Nixon of Montgomery.
        Services will be held at Bethel Missionary Baptist Church in Montgomery next Tuesday at 2:30 P.M.
      