
       Jose W. Diokno, a former Senator who headed the Government's peace negotiating panel until his illness forced him to step down, died of cancer Friday, one day after his 65th birthday.
        Jose W. Diokno, a former Senator who headed the Government's peace negotiating panel until his illness forced him to step down, died of cancer Friday, one day after his 65th birthday.
        In his career Mr. Diokno also served as Justice Secretary and headed a presidential panel investigating human rights abuses. He resigned that post last month to protest the killings of 18 demonstrators near the presidential palace.
        President Corazon C. Aquino declared 10 days of national mourning for Mr. Diokno, whom she called ''a giant of a man'' who ''braved the Marcos dictatorship with a dignified and eloquent courage our country will long remember.''
        Filipinos across the political spectrum mourned Mr. Diokno today as a nationalist and human rights activist whose integrity and intellect drew the respect of opponents as well as friends. His illness, since 1984, had prevented him from becoming one of the major figures in the post-Marcos period, they said. Held for 2 Years Under Marcos
        A prominent opposition Senator, Mr. Diokno was arrested in 1972 when President Ferdinand E. Marcos declared martial law. He was held without charges for nearly two years, part of the time in a cell beside that of Mrs. Aquino's husband, Benigno, who was later assassinated.
        After his release, he became one of a group of lawyers defending political prisoners, including prominent members of the Communist Party as well as what he called ''oppressed little people'' such as peasants.
        He headed a variety of groups supporting human rights causes and opposing the presence in the Philippines of American bases.
        He was also a member of a small group of opposition politicians known as the Convenors Group, which ultimately selected Mrs. Aquino as the candidate to challenge Mr. Marcos in elections last year.
        Jose Wright Diokno was born on Feb. 26, 1922, in Taal, 50 miles south of Manila, one of 10 children of an associate justice of the Supreme Court. His mother was British.  He graduated summa cum laude from De La Salle University in Manila and won top honors in national examinations for certified public accounting and for the bar. Two Terms in Senate
        He served as Justice Secretary in 1961 and 1962, and one year later was elected to the first of his two terms in the Senate.
        Among the groups he headed in recent years was the Anti-Bases Coalition, or A.B.C., in which he argued that the American bases perpetuated a colonial relationship.
        Mr. Diokno argued for a shift in the Philippine economy away from its export base to free it from dependence on the United States, Japan and other major trading partners.
        He said his vision of the Philippines was of a ''place where nobody can push us around, not even the American imperialists.''
        Mr. Diokno is survived by his wife, Carmen, seven daughters and three sons.
        JOSE W. DOIKNO, EX-SENATOR
      