
       Manly Fleischmann, a lawyer and government official who headed a controversial commission assigned to find out how New York State might get better public education for less money, died of a heart attack Wednesday. He was 78 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        Manly Fleischmann, a lawyer and government official who headed a controversial commission assigned to find out how New York State might get better public education for less money, died of a heart attack Wednesday. He was 78 years old and lived in Buffalo.
        Mr. Fleischmann was appointed chairman of the 18-member Commission on the Quality, Cost and Financing of Elementary and Secondary Education by former Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1969.
        The panel released its conclusions and recommendations, known as the Fleischmann Report, in 1972, arousing considerable controversy across the country. The report added to a nationwide debate on education, but few of its recommendations were adopted. Called for Shift in Financing
        The study called for busing to end racial discrimination in school systems, came out against most state aid to nonpublic schools and proposed a state takeover of all financing of public elementary and secondary schools. Under the plan, schools were to be financed by a state real property tax.
        The panel urged a far-reaching reorganization of the way public schools in New York City and New York State were run and said parents should be allowed to choose which schools their children should attend.
        In line with its emphasis on greater local control and accountability, the state commission called for more effective school decentralization measures in the city.
        Mr. Fleischmann was born in Hamburg, N.Y., one of six sons of a well-known trial lawyer, Simon Fleischmann.
        He graduated from Harvard College in 1929 and the University of Buffalo Law School in 1933.
        In 1941, eight months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, he became assistant general counsel in the Federal War Production Board. In 1943, he joined the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. He served with a British intelligence unit in Japanese-occupied Burma and was awarded the Bronze Star.
        In the Truman Administration, Mr. Fleischmann, a Democrat, held several jobs, including administrator of the Defense Production Administration during the Korean War.
        From August 1950 until he left the post in 1952, he played a key role in directing the effort by which the country reshaped its production apparatus from one primarily directed toward peacetime production to one with substantial military output.
        He was appointed by Governor Rockefeller in 1965 as a trustee of the State Universty of New York.
        He was a partner in the law firm of Jaeckle, Fleischmann & Mugel and maintained offices in Manhattan and Buffalo.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lois Marseilles; a daughter, Alison Kimberly; a brother, Adelbert, and a grandson, all of Buffalo.
        A memorial service is to be held at 4 P.M. Monday in St. Paul's Episcopal Cathedral in Buffalo.
      