
       Donald MacBeth, a leading jockey who won the first Breeders' Cup race three years ago, died of cancer Sunday evening at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 37 years old.
        Donald MacBeth, a leading jockey who won the first Breeders' Cup race three years ago, died of cancer Sunday evening at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 37 years old.
        Mr. MacBeth had been hoping to return to riding later this year. He had not ridden in a race since last April, when he suffered compressed vertebrae in a spill at Aqueduct.
        Born in Red Deer, Alberta, Mr. MacBeth dreamed of a career playing hockey but switched to horse racing because of his size after seeing the great Canadian horse, Northern Dancer, win the 1964 Kentucky Derby. He rode at small, unsanctioned Canadian tracks for three years, then gained experience riding in Seattle, Phoenix, Denver and Chicago before settling in New Jersey in 1972. He began riding regularly in New York in 1980 and was the leading rider at Aqueduct meetings in 1981 and 1982.
        His best, and favorite, mount was Chief's Crown, the nation's champion 2-year-old in 1984. That was the year of the first Breeders' Cup races, at Hollywood Park in Inglewood, Calif., and he won the first race of the series, the $1 million Juvenile, with Chief's Crown. The colt failed to win any of the Triple Crown races the following year and Mr. MacBeth was briefly replaced as his rider, but then returned triumphantly to win the Marlboro Cup in the fall. Rode 2,764 Winners
        He rode 2,764 winners from 22,435 mounts during his career and won purses totaling more than $40 million, the 12th highest earnings in racing history. He won major stakes races aboard such stars as Deputy Minister, Family Style and Temperence Hill.
        On Feb. 21, he flew to Santa Anita Park near Los Angeles to accept the George Woolf Memorial Jockey Award, presented each year to a rider who personifies high standards of personal and professional conduct both on and off the track.
        Mr. MacBeth said in an interview the day before receiving the award that he was undergoing radiation treatment for multiple brain lesions. He said that he had been diagnosed as having cancer last March, but that the extent of his illness was not known fully until last September.
        Several race tracks flew their flags at half-staff Monday and today, and the jockeys at Hialeah Park stood at the finish line before the first race on Monday and observed a moment of silence.
        Mr. MacBeth is survived by his wife, Joanne, and four children.
      