
       J. Victor Herd, retired chairman and chief executive officer of the Continental Corporation in Manhattan, holding company of the Continental Insurance Companies, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 85 years old.
        J. Victor Herd, retired chairman and chief executive officer of the Continental Corporation in Manhattan, holding company of the Continental Insurance Companies, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Herd, who was born in Milwaukee, began his insurance career as a teen-ager, working as a map clerk and examiner at the headquarters of the American Central Insurance Company in St. Louis. In 1920, he joined the Niagara Fire Insurance Company, which became a member of the Continental group in 1929, at its home office in Manhattan.
        In 1930, Mr. Herd joined the Fire Association Group, which became Reliance Insurance, and served successively as secretary, vice president and director. Official With Red Cross
        In 1942, he rejoined the Continental Insurance Companies as secretary and was elected vice president in 1944. He became president in 1956 and added the title of chairman in 1957. He stepped down as president in 1959, continuing as chairman and chief executive officer. In the late 1960's he formed the Continental Corporation, retiring in 1970. At his death he was director emeritus of the corporation.
        Mr Herd also served on the boards of many institutions. He was former chairman of the Salvation Army's New York Advisory Board and a former member of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross.
        He also had been a trustee of Adelphi University, New York University, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Brooklyn Museum and was a warden of Grace Episcopal Church in Brooklyn Heights.
        Mr. Herd is survived by his wife, the former Pauline Hoffman, and two daughters, Victoria P. Herd, of Doylestown, Pa., and Pauline M. Herd, of Brooklyn Heights.
        A memorial service was scheduled for 4 P.M. Thursday at Grace Episcopal Church, 254 Hicks Street in Brooklyn Heights.
      