
       Lloyd Goodrich, a former director of the Whitney Museum of American art and a leading author and advocate of American art for more than a half century, died yesterday of cancer at his home in New York City. He was 89 years old.
        Lloyd Goodrich, a former director of the Whitney Museum of American art and a leading author and advocate of American art for more than a half century, died yesterday of cancer at his home in New York City. He was 89 years old.
        A key figure in the art world for decades, Mr. Goodrich pursued his passion for advancing America's indigenous art, not only as director of the Whitney Museum, but as the author of many books on American art and artists, and as a frequent public spokesman on issues concerning the importance of the visual arts in America.
        He wrote biographies and monographs on many of America's greatest artists, about whom he was a leading authority, including Winslow Homer, Edward Hopper, Reginald Marsh, Albert Ryder and Georgia O'Keeffe. He remained prolific throughout his life, publishing as recently as 1982 a two-volume biography of Thomas Eakins.
        As the director of the Whitney Museum, from 1958 to 1968, Mr. Goodrich guided its transition from an essentially private institution to a public one, broadening its governing board beyond the family of Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, who founded the museum in 1930, to include many individuals and arts patrons from New York society.
        He also presided over construction of the museum's present quarters, at Madison Avenue and 75th Street, a controversial but generally popular building designed in distinctive minimalist style by the architect Marcel Breuer in 1966. Changed View of American Art
        ''He had an extraordinary sense of the museum in relation to the larger world,'' Flora Miller Biddle, the chairman of the Whitney Museum and the granddaughter of Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, said yesterday. ''For many years, American art was considered the stepchild of the art world, just not considered seriously. Through what he did at the Whitney, and as a scholar of American art, he did a lot to change that.''
        A native of Nutley, N.J., Mr. Goodrich was an intimate childhood friend of Reginald Marsh, an artist and the son of a prominent painter. Initially hoping to be an artist himself, Mr. Goodrich studied at the Art Student's League and the National Academy of Design in New York between 1913 and 1918, before deciding he lacked the talent to sustain a career.
        For the next five years, Mr. Goodrich worked in the steel business, returning eventually to the arts as a writer. He first wrote criticism for The Arts, a magazine subsidized by Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, and then for a year worked as an assistant art critic for The New York Times, in 1929.
        In 1930, he joined the staff of the newly founded Whitney Museum of American Art, as a curator. Three years later, the museum published his first book, a study of Thomas Eakins. He remained with the museum, becoming associate curator in 1947, associate director in 1948, and director in 1958. He retired as director in 1968 to devote full time to writing and other projects. Started Several Programs
        In his years at the Whitney Museum, Mr. Goodrich started several programs that left their mark on the institution as it exists today. He played a key role in forming the Friends of the Whitney Museum, a group of patrons who helped raise money for the purchase of contemporary works of American art. Their acquisitions, of such artists as Stuart Davis, Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko, are reflected in the exhibited works of the Whitney's permanent collection.
        He was also instrumental in starting the American Art Research Council, in 1942, a consortium of museums devoted to collecting written and visual records about contemporary works of art, in such areas as catalogues, press announcements and other documents. The council has ceased to function, but during its operation the Whitney became the main center for scholarly study of much mid-century American art.
        The bequest of the Hopper collection, by Edward Hopper's widow Josephine, in 1968, also resulted from Mr. Goodrich's reputation as the leading scholar of Edward Hopper at the time. Today, the collection of some 2,000 works by Hopper is a major strength of the museum, and makes it the world's major center for st dy of the artist.
        Mr. Goodrich also had numerous art-world affiliations, and sat on the editorial boards of art magazines and on advisory panels for the New York State Council on the Arts and the Fine Arts Advisory Committee to the White House. In 1933, he was in charge of the New York regional office of the Public Works of Art Project, the relief program that hired thousands of artists to create murals and sculptures for public buildings as part of the Works Project Administration. Tried to Improve Artists' Lot
        In his public pronouncements and advocacy of American Art throughout his career, Mr. Goodrich left much of his mark. In 1964, for instance, in an acceptance speech for an award from the National Art Materials Trade Association, he proposed several steps to improve the lot of American artists.
        Artists should be paid, he said, for showing in museums; should be paid when their work is reproduced; should be paid a percentage of the admission costs to American art museums.
        ''The important thing,'' he said, ''is that we should recognize the value of the creative artist to our society, and strive to reward him more adequately for what he contributes to our national life.''
        Mr. Goodrich is survived by a son, David, of New York City; a daugher, Madeline Noble of Geneva; a sister, Mrs. Maxwell C. Huntoon of Little Compton, R.I; three grandsons, and a step-granddaughter.
      