
       Judge Walter Roe Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, who recently participated in the selection of a special counsel to investigate the Iran-contra scandal, died yesterday while on vacation in Christchurch, New Zealand. He was 75 years old and lived in Stamford,
        Judge Walter Roe Mansfield of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, who recently participated in the selection of a special counsel to investigate the Iran-contra scandal, died yesterday while on vacation in Christchurch, New Zealand. He was 75 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn.
        Judge Mansfield suffered a stroke, according to Wilfred Feinberg, the Chief Judge of the Second Circuit, which comprises Vermont, Connecticut and New York.
        Eleven months ago, in a major decision, Judge Mansfield upheld a lower-court ruling that required Texaco to post a $1 billion bond to secure a $12 billion judgment that had been won by the Pennzoil Company against the giant oil corporation.
        Although semiretired as a senior judge since 1981, Judge Mansfield ''continued to discharge nearly the full workload of his active colleagues,'' Judge Feinberg said yesterday.  Judge Mansfield was born in Boston in 1911, the son of Frederick W. Mansfield, the Mayor of Boston from 1933 to 1937. The judge earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1932 and a law degree from Harvard Law School in 1935.
        He was appointed a Federal District Court judge for the Southern District of New York in 1966 and was elevated to the Court of Appeals in 1971. From 1950 until 1966, he had been a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine. From 1938 to 1941, he was an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan.
        Judge Mansfield, a member of the Marine Corps in World War II, served in the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, and parachuted behind enemy lines to work with partisan units in both Yugoslavia and China. He left the service with the rank of major.
        Since 1984, Judge Mansfield had been a member of the three-judge panel charged with appointing independent counsel to conduct investigations involving agencies of the Federal Government. As a member of that panel, he recently participated in the appointment of Lawrence E. Walsh as special counsel to investigate the Iran-contra arms connection.
        Last February, Judge Mansfield wrote the decision that allowed Texaco to post only a $1 billion bond, instead of $11 billion, while it appealed a Texas state court judgment that found it had improperly interfered with Pennzoil's attempt to purchase a 43 percent interest in the Getty Oil Company.
        Texaco argued that its constitutional rights had been violated by the Texas court because its business would be crippled if it had to post the full $11 billion. Pennzoil has taken the case to the United States Supreme Court, where it is scheduled to be argued next week.
        In his years on the bench, Judge Mansfield often issued opinions protecting the rights of individuals. While a District Court judge, he ruled in 1970 that the New York State Athletic Commission had violated the rights of Muhammad Ali when it barred him from fighting because he had been convicted of refusing induction into the Armed Services. Judge Mansfield held that the commission had withheld a license from Mr. Ali while granting licenses to dozens of people convicted of crimes.
        That same year, he ruled that McSorley's - for 116 years an ale house in Manhattan that served only men -must serve women, too.
        In 1971, the judge ruled that the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service could not block the citizenship of a man born in Cuba because he was a homosexual.
        And in December 1971, three months after the Attica prison uprising in which 43 people were killed, Judge Mansfield wrote a strongly worded opinion supporting the contention of inmates that they needed an injunction against ''physical abuse, torture and beatings'' by guards.
        Judge Mansfield is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; a son, Matthew; a daughter, Trina; a stepson, Peter F. Rient, and nine grandchildren. His first wife, Gertrude, died in 1978.
        A memorial service is scheduled for 11 A.M. Jan. 15, at the First Presbyterian Church in New Canaan, Conn.
      