
       Martin Provensen, an award-winning illustrator of children's books, died of a heart attack at his home in Clinton Corners, N.Y., Friday. He was 70 years old.
        Martin Provensen, an award-winning illustrator of children's books, died of a heart attack at his home in Clinton Corners, N.Y., Friday. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Provensen and his wife, Alice, also an illustrator, worked as a team for more than 40 years, illustrating scores of children's books, including a children's version of the Bible.
        An early success came with their illustrations for the ''Fireside Book of Folk Songs,'' which became a classic after its publication in 1947 during a revival of interest in folk singing. A Wide Range of Work
        Their work covered a range of children's literature, from such simple stories as ''Katie the Kitten,'' in 1949, to ''The Glorious Flight: Across the Channel with Louis Bleriot,'' in 1983, which they also wrote.
        The latter book, the story of a French aviator who in 1909 became the first person to cross the English Channel in an airplane, earned them the prestigious Randolph Caldecott Medal for the best picture book published in the United States in 1983.
        Their style embodied ''warm colors, and it was almost impressionist,'' said Bruce Harris of Crown, one of their publishers. They often received mention on The New York Times Book Review's annual list of best-illustrated children's books.
        ''We work together on everything,'' Mr. Provensen once said. ''This would not be possible, of course, if it were not true that we really think in the same artistic terms. We like the flat, decorative modern technique, influenced by Persian miniatures and Italian primitives.'' 'So Close and Productive'
        ''I can't think of another working relationship between artists that was so close and so productive,'' said a longtime friend of the Provensens, Robert Gottlieb, who is the editor of The New Yorker. ''And this was a reflection of their closeness and mutual generosity as a married couple.''
        Mr. Provensen was born July 10, 1916, in Chicago. His wife, the former Alice Twitchell, was also born in Chicago. Both won scholarships to the Chicago Art Institute, and both transferred to the University of California.
        But they did not meet until World War II, when the Navy assigned Mr. Provensen to create animated training films at the Walt Disney Studios, where Miss Twitchell was making animated cartoons. They were married in 1944.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Provensen is survived by a daughter, Karen, and his mother, Berendina Provensen, both of Glendale, Calif.
        MARTIN PROVENSEN, ILLUSTRATOR
      