
       Rafael M. Salas, executive director of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and a senior member of the Philippine Government in the 1960's, died tonight in his hotel room in Washington, where he was visiting. He was 58 years old.
        Rafael M. Salas, executive director of the United Nations Fund for Population Activities and a senior member of the Philippine Government in the 1960's, died tonight in his hotel room in Washington, where he was visiting. He was 58 years old.
        United Nations officials said Mr. Salas, who suffered from heart disease, had apparently had a heart attack.
        A leading authority on family planning, Mr. Salas had led the population agency since its creation in 1969.
        He was active recently in trying to persuade the United States to restore money withheld from his agency on charges that it supported involuntary abortions in China. He strongly denied the charge and was scheduled to discuss the issue with members of Congress on Thursday.
        In a letter of condolence to his family, the Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar said Mr. Salas's ''energy and dynamism were an inspiration to his colleagues and many admirers around the world.'' Earned Master's at Harvard
        A professor, Government official and diplomat before leaving the Philippines to work for the United Nations, Rafael Montinola Salas was born Aug. 7, 1928, in Bago City. He received bachelor and law degrees from the University of the Philippines in 1953 and traveled to the United States to obtain a master's in public administration from Harvard University in 1955.
        For the next 11 years he combined professorships in law and economics at the University of the Philippines with positions in the Government and private industry.
        He was executive director of the National Economic Council, with Cabinet rank, from 1955 to 1961 and worked as general manager of The Manila Chronicle from 1963 to 1966.
        In 1966 he became Executive Secretary of the Philippines, second only to President Ferdinand E. Marcos in authority. He held the post for three years.
        As national coordinator of the Philippine National Rice and Corn Sufficiency Program from 1967 to 1969, Mr. Salas is credited with initiating a ''green revolution'' in his country and making it a rice-sufficient nation.
        In 1969, Paul Hoffman, then the Director of the United Nations Development Program, asked Mr. Salas to lead the new Fund for Population Activities. Mr. Salas told associates that he accepted the United Nations post because of his disenchantment with the Marcos Government. Oversaw Growth of Agency
        Mr. Salas oversaw the growth of the agency from a minor body with a $2.5 million budget to one of the most influential United Nations agencies, spending over $150 million annually.
        In August of 1984, he served as secretary general of the International Population Conference in Mexico City.
        Population experts described him as one of a few figures who transformed the obscure field of family planning into an accepted component of developmental science, helping planners overcome initial opposition to population control in underdeveloped, Roman Catholic and Marxist countries.
        Mr. Salas was a quiet man who wrote several volumes of poetry. He was fond of saying the only ''honorable'' excuse for tardiness was an unscheduled visit to a bookshop.
        Mr. Salas lived in Manhattan. He is survived by his wife, the former Carmelita Rodriguez, and two young sons, Ernesto Luis and Rafael Miguel.
      