
       Alfred de Liagre, a producer and director for the Broadway theater whose career spanned half a century and included comedy (John van Druten's ''Voice of the Turtle'' in 1943), drama (Archibald MacLeish's play in verse, ''J. B.,'' in 1958) and musical comedy (the 1983 revival of ''On Your Toes''), died of lung cancer yesterday at his Manhattan home.
        Alfred de Liagre, a producer and director for the Broadway theater whose career spanned half a century and included comedy (John van Druten's ''Voice of the Turtle'' in 1943), drama (Archibald MacLeish's play in verse, ''J. B.,'' in 1958) and musical comedy (the 1983 revival of ''On Your Toes''), died of lung cancer yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. de Liagre, a familiar figure on Broadway with his rakish fedora and courtly demeanor, was known universally by the nickname Delly. His full name was Alfred Gustav Etienne de Liagre Jr., and he was born on Oct. 6, 1904, the son of a Passaic, N.J., textile manufacturer. He attended the Riverdale Country School and studied with Monty Woolley at Yale University, graduating in the 1926 class that included John Ringling North, Rudy Vallee and John Hay Whitney. As a young actor, Mr. de Liagre shared a dressing room, on alternating nights, with Katharine Hepburn, who dubbed him ''the last of the great gentleman producers.'' Early on, he assumed the role of a high-living gentleman, giving lavish parties in Venice and Cannes and touring New Haven in vintage cars.
        Mr. de Liagre's career in the Broadway theater began in 1933 with ''Three-Cornered Moon,'' starring Ruth Gordon and Brian Donlevy. The show marked Mr. de Liagre's debut as a producer and director but it was not his entrance into show business, for he had played a small part in the Marx Brothers' comedy ''Cocoanuts.'' He also tried his hand at journalism and aviation before turning to the theater, learning management and stagecraft in summer stock before going into the commercial theater in New York. Produced 'Deathtrap'
        During the 1930's, Mr. de Liagre produced and directed the light comedies ''By Your Leave,'' ''The Pure in Heart,'' ''Fresh Fields,'' ''Petticoat Fever,'' ''Yes, My Darling Daughter'' and ''Walrus and the Carpenter.'' His last venture as both director and producer was the 1941 hit comedy-thriller ''Mr. and Mrs. North.'' It was not, however, his last endeavor in that genre; in 1978 Mr. de Liagre produced (with Roger L. Stevens) Ira Levin's ''Deathtrap,'' which ran more than four years.
        In 1943, Mr. de Liagre mounted the show with which he would be most enduringly identified for the rest of his life, Mr. van Druten's sentimental comedy ''The Voice of the Turtle.'' The show starred Margaret Sullavan and Elliot Nugent, and it was the most successful comedy of its time. That was followed by two more producing ventures, ''Mermaids Singing'' and ''The Druid Circle.'' Mr. de Liagre returned to directing in 1948 with ''The Madwoman of Chaillot,'' for which he was made a Chevalier of the French Legion of Honor.
        Mr. de Liagre's production of ''The Golden Apple'' was named best musical by the New York Drama Critics Circle in 1954, while ''J. B.'' - Mr. MacLeish's adaptation of the biblical Book of Job - won the Pulitzer Prize for drama in 1959. During the 1950's, Mr. de Liagre also produced ''The Deep Blue Sea,'' ''Janus'' and ''The Girls in 509.'' ''Escapade,'' in 1953, was the last show Mr. de Liagre directed.
        Mr. de Liagre described the 1960 ''The Tumbler,'' staged by Laurence Olivier and starring Charlton Heston, Martha Scott and Rosemary Harris, as his favorite failure; it ran four days. Also in the 1960's, he produced the musical ''Kwamina,'' ''The Irregular Verb to Love,'' which starred Cyril Ritchard and Claudette Colbert, Peter Ustinov's ''Photo Finish'' and ''Love in E Flat.'' He was a co-founder of the Plumstead Players, which in 1969 presented Henry Fonda in a revival of ''Our Town.'' An 'Old-Fashioned Gentleman'
        In the 1970's, Mr. de Liagre, frustrated by the increasingly daunting financial pressures of Broadway, withdrew from the commercial theater in favor of the American National Theater and Academy, which produced such shows as a revival of ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' starring Elizabeth Ashley, and ''Harvey,'' starring James Stewart. He returned to the commercial theater with Mr. Levin's ''Deathtrap,'' which starred John Wood and Marian Seldes, and the revival of the Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart 1939 musical ''On Your Toes,'' which marked the Broadway debut of the ballerina Natalia Makarova.
        ''Play craftsmanship has gone out of fashion,'' Mr. de Liagre said upon his return to producing after nearly a decade's absence. ''Playwrights today don't care very much about telling a story that has a beginning, a middle and an end. It's become a mood thing, and so many of them have gone into the same kind of abstract expressionism that you find in painting and sculpture.''
        ''He was a fine gentleman,'' Bernard Jacobs, president of the Shubert Organization, said yesterday. ''He was a traditional, old-fashioned gentleman. Once he gave his word, you never had to look for him a second time.''
        Mr. de Liagre is survived by his wife, the former actress Mary Howard; a daughter, Christina, of Paris, and a son, Nicholas, of New York City.
        A memorial service will be held Tuesday at noon, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street.
      