
       Michael Shirman, the leukemia patient whose potentially life-saving operation was delayed by the Soviet Union's refusal to let his sister emigrate and donate bone marrow for him, died Thursday night. He was 32 years old. Dr. Alain Berrebi, professor of hematology at Kaplan Hospital in Rehovot, where Mr.
        Michael Shirman, the leukemia patient whose potentially life-saving operation was delayed by the Soviet Union's refusal to let his sister emigrate and donate bone marrow for him, died Thursday night. He was 32 years old. Dr. Alain Berrebi, professor of hematology at Kaplan Hospital in Rehovot, where Mr. Shirman died, said today that his patient's chances of recovery were much greater last spring, when his sister was first refused an exit visa, than early this year, when the operation was finally done.
        ''If we had been able to perform the transplant by March or April last year, statistics indicate a 50 to 60 percent probability of recovery,'' Dr. Berrebi said. ''By the time we were eventually able to operate in January this year, Mr. Shirman was already so ill that his chances of survival were very low, 1 or 2 or 3 percent.''
        ''We have to blame the Soviet authorities,'' the physician said.
        Mr. Shirman, a biochemist and cancer researcher, immigrated to Israel from the Soviet Union in March 1980. He was married in 1985, the year he learned he had leukemia. Hopes Pinned on Sister
        Mr. Shirman's mother lives in Israel, but doctors said her bone marrow was not suitable for a transplant. They said there was a 25 percent chance that the marrow of his sister, Inessa Fleurov, might be compatible.
        Mrs. Fleurov, a Muscovite, first approached the Soviet visa authorities in March 1986, but they rejected her request. In August, the authorities relented but said her husband, Viktor, would have to stay behind because Mr. Fleurov's father would not sign a statement declaring that his son did not owe him any money.
        The Fleurovs refused to split up the family. They began an international pressure campaign, including an appearance by Mr. Shirman at the Iceland summit meeting last October, to persuade the Soviet authorities to waive the rule under which Mr. Fleurov was being held.
        The couple and their two daughters were finally allowed to leave last November. Mrs. Fleurov's marrow was found to be compatible, but the transplant operation was postponed until early January 1987 because Mr. Shirman was too weak to tolerate it. He died of complications resulting from the operation, Dr. Berrebi said. Soviet Was 'Fateful Factor'
        ''The fateful factor in Mr. Shirman's death was the Soviet regime,'' a spokesman for the Israeli Public Council for Soviet Jewry said today. ''We accuse the Soviet regime of not displaying any human compassion, and using all sorts of bureaucratic measures to delay Mrs. Fleurov's aid to her brother.''
        Mr. Shirman's death coincides with a renewed campaign by Israeli mothers whose children have been barred from leaving the Soviet Union. Last Wednesday, 11 such mothers began a hunger strike in Jerusalem.
        This Sunday, 200 mothers of Soviet Jews who have been denied exit visas plan to demonstrate in front of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's office, demanding increased pressure on the Soviet Union, which recently put into effect what it described as new rules on emigration.
        ''The new emigration rules mean nothing, because even the ones in favor of family reunification are not being implemented,'' the spokesman for the Council for Soviet Jewry said today.
      