
       Senator Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska, a maverick politician who switched from Republican to Democrat and then threatened to switch back again, died of a heart attack Friday after performing a song-and-dance routine that made fun of his threats to switch allegiance. He was 58 years old.
        Senator Edward Zorinsky of Nebraska, a maverick politician who switched from Republican to Democrat and then threatened to switch back again, died of a heart attack Friday after performing a song-and-dance routine that made fun of his threats to switch allegiance. He was 58 years old.
        Senator Zorinski was stricken shortly after appearing at the annual Omaha Press Club Gridiron Show, where he sang a humorous song and did a quick soft-shoe dance.
        He was taken by ambulance to Methodist Hospital in Omaha, where he was pronounced dead at 11:26 P.M. Friday. Hospital officials attributed the death to a heart attack. The Senator had been hospitalized twice in recent years for severe chest pains.
        Mr. Zorinsky will leave a major void on the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, where he headed the most important subcommittee, dealing with production and stabilization of prices, and on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where he headed a new subcommittee on terrorism, narcotics and international communications, according to sources on both committees. Will Not Alter Balance of Power
        Mr. Zorinsky's death is not expected to alter the balance of power in the Senate. The Democrats will remain in control of the Senate even if Gov. Kay Orr, a Republican, appoints a member of her own party to succeed him.
        Mr. Zorinsky, a native Nebraskan who was nominally a life-long Republican, won election as Mayor of Omaha in 1973. His effective response to a severe blizzard and a series of tornadoes that hit Omaha in 1975 made him an extremely popular Mayor who was wooed by both parties to run for higher office.
        In late 1975, when it became apparent that the Republicans intended to nominate someone else for the United States Senate, Mr. Zorinsky switched parties and became a Democrat. He scored upset victories in the primary and general elections in 1976, becoming the first Jew ever to win a statewide election in Nebraska.
        There were repeated reports that Mr. Zorinsky might switch back again to the Republican party. In 1981 he considered but ultimately turned down an offer to rejoin the Republicans after they gained control of the Senate. And last year, before the fall elections, he indicated that he might rejoin the Republicans. Political Changeability
        This political changeability was the focus of Mr. Zorinski's skit before more than 1,200 persons attending the press club affair on Friday. The song, which he sang to the tune of the 1955 Platters hit, ''The Great Pretender,'' said:
        ''Oh, I am the great pretender, pretending to be two in one. Thus the party I choose can never lose, And I'll be it's favorite son. Can't you see I'm a great pretender, and changing parties my key. I'm a G.O.P. cat dressed as a Democrat. My party's the majority.''
        Mr. Zorinsky began to feel ill in the ballroom about a half hour after his performance, took a nitroglycerine pill, and went outside with his wife to get some air. A rescue squad was called, and paramedics, as well as two physicians participating in the show, administered emergency care. But Mr. Zorinsky arrived unconscious at the hospital emergency room and was pronounced dead.
        Mr. Zorinsky was a conservative whose votes generally won approval in ratings published by conservative and business groups and disapproval in liberal and labor union ratings. He dramatized his commitment to open government by removing the door from his Senate office, encouraging press and public to walk in at any time.
        Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island, who heads the Foreign Relations Committee, said today that his ''common sense approach and ability to get at the nub of a problem will be much missed.''
        Mr. Zorinsky is survived by his wife, Cece, and three children, Barry, Jeffrey, and Susan.
        EDWARD ZORINSKY, 58, DIES
      