
       Gen. William F. McKee, a retired Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force who served as head of the Federal Aviation Administration in the Johnson Administration, died Saturday after a brief illness in San Antonio.
        Gen. William F. McKee, a retired Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force who served as head of the Federal Aviation Administration in the Johnson Administration, died Saturday after a brief illness in San Antonio.
        He was 80 years old and lived in Air Force Village, a retirement community on the outskirts of San Antonio.
        Until recently, he was a resident of Washington, where he had worked as a management consultant with another retired Air Force associate, Gen. Bernard A. Schriever, the chief architect of the country's ballistic missile program. #35 Years in the Military General McKee, who graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1929, spent 35 years in the military, earning his four stars without ever having flown a plane or taken a pilot's license. In 1962, he reached the second highest post in the service under Gen. Curtis E. LeMay, the Air Force Chief of Staff.
        He left the military in 1964 on receiving a third Distinguished Service Medal from President Johnson in a White House ceremony.
        He then joined the National Aeronautics and Space Administration as assistant administrator for management development.
        But in 1965, President Johnson persuaded the Senate to waive a law that called for a civilian to run what was then known as the Federal Aviation Agency. The vote was close, but General McKee gained solid approval for the job of F.A.A. Administrator.
        Johnson also put him in overall control of the development of an American supersonic transport plane in a race with the British-French Concorde project and the Soviet Union's rival to it.
        While in the Air Force, General McKee was a believer in modern weapons, foreseeing Air Force material stored in space and on other planets. He threw himself into the supersonic plane project with enthusiasm and guided it toward the designing stage, only to watch it fail when financing was denied.
        The aviation agency itself was constantly short of the means to provide enough control towers, radar equipment and air controllers to keep pace with burgeoning traffic. General McKee regularly pleaded with Congress, the White House and the Budget Office for the funds to keep the ever more crowded skies safe.
        At the same time, groups of his own air controllers directed their fire at General McKee, particularly after a midair collision over North Carolina that took 82 lives in 1967 and in a work slowdown at the height of the summer travel season in 1968, his last year with the F.A.A. Commissioned in Coast Artillery
        William Fulton McKee was born Oct. 17, 1906, in Chilhowie, Va., and was commissioned into the Coast Artillery Corps. In 1942, he moved to the Army Air Force and came to command its Air Transport Command in 1946.
        Later, he was assigned to the Air Logistics Command, becoming its chief in 1961. It was his experience with the procurement of planes and other large weapon systems that propelled him to the office of Vice Chief of Staff and on to NASA.
        General McKee is survived by his wife, Gertrude, and two sons. Burial will be at Arlington National Ceremony at a time to be announced.
      