
       Igor Kropotkin, the longtime head of Scribners Bookstores and a former president of the American Booksellers Association, died last Wednesday at New York University Hospital, following complications from a stroke. He was 68 years old and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J.
        Igor Kropotkin, the longtime head of Scribners Bookstores and a former president of the American Booksellers Association, died last Wednesday at New York University Hospital, following complications from a stroke. He was 68 years old and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J.
        Mr. Kropotkin, a Russian emigre who became a naturalized American citizen in 1932, attended Columbia University and New York University.
        In an interview in Publishers Weekly in August 1985, Mr. Kropotkin said that he was born of Russian nobility shortly after the Bolshevik Revolution and that his father, who was an officer in the Czar's army, was killed in the Russian Civil War between the Reds and Whites. Soon afterward, his mother took him to China, where they lived amid a large colony of Russian exiles, awaiting entry to the United States. After a nine-year wait, they arrived in San Francisco in 1927, and settled for a time in Detroit before coming to New York.
        He began his career in book selling in 1941, when he was hired as a temporary clerk in the Charles Scribner's Sons bookstore on Fifth Avenue. Rising through the ranks, he eventually became general manager of the store. He became a corporate vice president in 1960 and a senior vice president of the corporation in 1967.
        After another Scribner's bookstore was opened, in Williamsburg, Va. in 1970, the two stores were split off corporately from Charles Scribner's Sons, and Mr. Kropotkin was named president of Scribners Bookstores Inc. He held that post until he resigned in June 1985, after the bookstores were purchased by Rizzoli.
        Mr. Kropotkin was elected president of the American Booksellers Association in 1962, serving a two-year term. He also served on the board of the association for 20 years and was chairman of its annual convention when it was held in New York in 1975. In 1965 he was president of the Booksellers' League of New York.  Mr. Kropotkin is survived by his wife, Marjorie, of Fair Lawn; a son, Michael, of Clifton, N.J.; a daughter, Valerie Haskell of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      