
       Allan Jaffe, the owner and manager of the New Orleans jazz mecca Preservation Hall, died of cancer Monday at East Jefferson General Hospital in New Orleans. He was 51 years old. Mr. Jaffe's name had become synonymous with traditional New Orleans music, and he was widely credited with a revival of the music at a time when the old musicians were out of work and out of favor.
        Allan Jaffe, the owner and manager of the New Orleans jazz mecca Preservation Hall, died of cancer Monday at East Jefferson General Hospital in New Orleans. He was 51 years old. Mr. Jaffe's name had become synonymous with traditional New Orleans music, and he was widely credited with a revival of the music at a time when the old musicians were out of work and out of favor.
        ''In many ways, he's been the spark plug of traditional New Orleans music for 25 years,'' the first curator of the Tulane University Jazz Archives, William Russell, said today.
        Mr. Jaffe's road manager, Christopher Botsford, pointed out that others besides Mr. Jaffe were involved in the renaissance of traditional New Orleans music, but that Mr. Jaffe, ''with his persistence and the close relationship he developed with the musicians and the love that he had for the music,'' was at the forefront. ''It was a real labor of love for him,'' Mr. Botsford said, ''but he did it because he had fun.'' Toured Japan in 1963
        Mr. Jaffe took Preservation Hall musicians on tour to Japan in 1963. Tours to other countries followed, and musicians from all over the world learned about New Orleans music at Preservation Hall.
        He was born in Pottsville, Pa., on April 24, 1935, and graduated from the Wharton School of Finance. Mr. Jaffe arrived in New Orleans after a trip to Mexico. He and his wife, Sandra, were on their honeymoon and were touring the United States in order to choose a place to live, according to Mr. Botsford. But after hearing a New Orleans jazz band and spending a short time in the city, they ended their tour and decided to remain.
        Mr. Jaffe learned the traditional New Orleans music from some of the older musicians, and he played the tuba on tour at such places as Lincoln Center in New York, Symphony Hall in Boston, the Royal Festival Hall in London, and Israel, South America and Japan. In New Orleans, he played with the Olympia Brass Band for parades, conventions and funerals.
        Mr. Jaffe is survived by his wife, Sandra; two sons, Benjamin and Russell; his parents, Harry and Fanny Jaffe of Pottsville, Pa., and his sister, Rhoda Abeshaus, of Flagstaff, Ariz.
        After a funeral service scheduled for 1 P.M. here Wednesday, there is to be a traditional jazz procession through the French Quarter with a stop outside the Jaffe home and outside Preservation Hall. Scores of musicians are to participate.
      