
       Woody Hayes, the hot-tempered football coach who built Ohio State into a perennial national power and then saw his career end in disgrace after he struck a Clemson player during the 1978 Gator Bowl game, died in his sleep Wednesday night at his home in the Columbus suburb of Upper Arlington, Ohio.
        Woody Hayes, the hot-tempered football coach who built Ohio State into a perennial national power and then saw his career end in disgrace after he struck a Clemson player during the 1978 Gator Bowl game, died in his sleep Wednesday night at his home in the Columbus suburb of Upper Arlington, Ohio.
        Mr. Hayes, who apparently suffered a heart attack, was 74 years old and had been in failing health for several years.
        In a career that spanned 33 seasons, Wayne Woodrow Hayes won acclaim as one of the greatest tacticians in football history.
        He was also one of the most successful. In his 28 seasons at Ohio State, his teams compiled a 205-61-10 record and were declared national champions by The Associated Press in 1954 and 1968, and by United Press International in 1957 and 1968. Mr. Hayes was named the top coach in the country in 1957 and 1975, and his total of 238 career victories has been eclipsed by only three major-college coaches, Paul (Bear) Bryant (323), Amos Alonzo Stagg (314) and Pop Warner (313), as well as by one small-college coach, Eddie Robinson of Grambling (336), who is still active. Started at Alma Mater
        Mr. Hayes, who began his coaching career in 1946 at Denison University, his alma mater, compiled an overall record of 238-72-10, including 19-6 in three seasons at Denison and 14-5 in two at Miami of Ohio, his last stop before taking over at Ohio State in 1951.
        Like Mr. Bryant, with whom he was frequently compared, Mr. Hayes was a coach who knew that football games were won during the recruiting season. And for all his reputation as an irascible, vindictive martinet, he had a soft, compelling side that came powerfully to the fore when he was sitting in a rural Ohio kitchen, charming the parents of a promising player.
        ''I like to go into a kid's home and talk to the kid's family and find out what they expect of their youngster -educationally, behaviorwise and that kind of thing,'' he once said.
        The charm usually worked. Among the players attracted to Ohio State during the Hayes years were two Heisman Trophy winners, Howard (Hopalong) Cassady (1955) and Archie Griffin (1974 and 1975) and dozens of all-Americans. A Military Bent
        A voracious reader who favored military histories and biographies of generals, Mr. Hayes sprinkled his speech with military terms and frequently quoted such personal heroes as George Patton. He also drew on his knowledge of battlefield tactics in designing an inspired ground attack that was often virtually unstoppable. Ohio State won or shared the Big Ten title 13 times, including a record six in a row from 1972 to 1977.
        Although he was an admirer of the Air Force general Curtis LeMay and even named an Ohio State passing series after him, Mr. Hayes preferred the off-tackle ''Patton'' series. He seemed indifferent to the passing game, and as the forward pass became an increasingly potent weapon in college football, Buckeye teams, while they continued to win conference championships, seemed no longer quite as invincible.
        For all his reading, Mr. Hayes, the son of a secondary school superintendent in Clifton, Ohio, sometimes seemed driven by an intellectual inferiority complex. ''I am not very smart,'' he once said, ''but I recognize that I am not very smart. So I outwork every S.O.B. that comes down the pike.'' Known for Tantrums
        Throughout his career Mr. Hayes, a squat, square-jawed man with a fierce visage and an even fiercer temper, was known as much for his tantrums as for his victories. During practice he would beat his fists on the helmets and shoulder pads of players who displeased him and would occasionally become so frustated that he would fling his own watch and eyeglasses to the ground.
        He tried to instill the same ideals in his players. ''When we get winning,'' he once told his squad, ''and anybody comes up to congratulate you, kick them in the shins unless it's a little old lady over 80. Pats on the back soften you.''
        For all his displays of temper, Mr. Hayes was known as a compassionate, caring man who instilled a fierce loyalty among those who knew him and whose main fault seemed to be that he cared too much - about his players, his coaches and especially Ohio State. Rarely Contrite
        When he was criticized, Mr. Hayes was rarely contrite. ''No alumni and nobody else, not even you members of the press, fire the coach,'' he once said. ''The players fire the coach and as long as I'm on the same wavelength with them, I can coach as long as I want to.''
        Although he was sometimes criticized by remote observers, in Ohio his excesses were usually cheerfully forgiven.
        As his career wore on, however, the tantrums seemed to take on an ugly turn that made it more difficult for his admirers to dismiss them as ''just good old Woody.''
        In 1971 he was seen on national television breaking the sideline markers in the final minute of a loss to Michigan. In 1973 he was accused of shoving a camera into a photographer's eye before the start of the Rose Bowl. In 1974 he was reprimanded by the Big Ten for repeated unsportsmanlike conduct in excoriating officials following a loss to Michigan State.
        When it was suggested in 1975, when he was 62, that he seemed to have mellowed over the years, Mr. Hayes issued a prophetic denial. ''Don't you believe I'm mellow,'' he said. ''I'm a little older, a little meaner. I am not an innocuous old man.''
        Two years later, in 1977, a national television audience saw him punch an ABC cameraman during a loss to Michigan that cost the Buckeyes a trip to the Rose Bowl.
        Then, on Dec. 29, 1978, he erupted one time too many. In the final minutes of a frustrating 17-15 Ohio State loss in the Gator Bowl, Charlie Bauman of Clemson intercepted an Ohio State pass. As he was chased out of bounds, a frustrated Hayes stepped up and punched him. The next day, using a military term that seemed especially appropriate, Hugh Hindman, the Ohio State athletic director and a former player and assistant coach under Hayes, announced that the coach had been ''relieved of his duties.''
        The morning after his dismissal, Mr. Hayes, describing the punch as ''a matter of an instant,'' said, ''I got what was coming to me.'' Then, in a rare moment of public self-analysis, he offered what amounted to an epitaph for his coaching career:
        ''Nobody despises to lose more than I do. That's got me into trouble over the years, but it also made a man of mediocre ability into a pretty good coach.''
        Even after his dismissal, Mr. Hayes, who became a popular speaker, was still a hero in his home state. The street outside the Ohio State Stadium was named after him and last year he was awarded an honorary doctor of humanities degree by Ohio State.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Gross, whom he married in 1942; and a son, Steven.
        A funeral has been scheduled for 4 P.M. Tuesday at the First Community Church in Columbus.
      