
       Bernhard Grzimek, a West German champion of wildlife who rebuilt Frankfurt's zoo from wartime ruin and won an Academy Award for a documentary about the Serengeti area of East Africa, died Friday of a heart attack while at a circus in Frankfurt. He was 77 years old.
        Bernhard Grzimek, a West German champion of wildlife who rebuilt Frankfurt's zoo from wartime ruin and won an Academy Award for a documentary about the Serengeti area of East Africa, died Friday of a heart attack while at a circus in Frankfurt. He was 77 years old.
        The zoologist, a familiar figure on West German television who gained international prominence for his dozens of books and films on wildlife, lived in recent years on a farm in Franconia, where he raised Arabian thoroughbreds, and in Tanzania.
        Bernhard Klemens Maria Grzimek was born on April 24, 1909, the son of a magistrate in Neisse, then part of German Silesia. He worked his way through veterinary college, earning a doctorate at the University of Berlin in 1932, by operating a poultry and vegetable farm.
        He served as a veterinary officer in World War II. A longtime lover of the circus, he once shocked visitors to a Berlin circus by appearing in the ring, in uniform, to put a team of tigers through its paces.
        His real career began after the war, when he rebuilt the badly damaged Frankfurt zoo, which officials had closed as beyond saving. Only 12 animals had survived and the grounds were a burnt ruin, but Mr. Grzimek was determined in his fund-raising efforts. He sometimes used unusual means, such as organizing sports festivals and parties on the zoo grounds. He also ended up creating one of the world's leading zoological gardens and a major center for wildlife reproduction. He retired as director in 1974. Early Wildlife TV Series
        Mr. Grzimek began a televison series on wildlife in 1956, and was noted for wearing a tiepin with the figure of a hedgehog. Though a gentle, avuncular person in recent years, he liked to say the animal reflected his personality.
        Long before the rise of the environmental Green party, politicians felt the tough side of his personality. In 1969, Chancellor Willy Brandt appointed him a kind of environmental ombudsman, but Mr. Grzimek resigned the post in 1977 to protest what he called insufficient efforts to protect wildlife.
        In 1959, while filming ''Serengeti Must Not Die,'' the documentary that was awarded an Oscar the next year, Mr. Grzimek lost his son Michael in a plane crash.
        Mr. Grzimek was an honorary keeper of the National Wildlife Park of Tanzania and Uganda. A frequent visitor to the United States, he held honorary awards from the zoological societies of New York, San Diego and Philadelphia, as well as from the World Wildlife Fund.
        ''It was somehow symptomatic that he died in the Althoff circus,'' Richard Faust, the director of the Frankfurt Zoo said Friday. After the war, the zoo's animals were housed for a while in the permanent buildings of the renowned circus.
        Mr. Grzimek is survived by his wife, Erika, and a son, Rochus.
      