
       Edward P. Curtis, a retired vice president of the Eastman Kodak Company and a former aide to President Eisenhower who became the architect of the Federal Aviation Administration, died Friday in a nursing home in Rochester. He was 90 years old.
        Edward P. Curtis, a retired vice president of the Eastman Kodak Company and a former aide to President Eisenhower who became the architect of the Federal Aviation Administration, died Friday in a nursing home in Rochester. He was 90 years old.
        Born in Rochester on Jan. 14, 1897, Mr. Curtis studied two years at Williams College. When the United States entered World War I, he joined the Air Corps and became one of the first American aces, shooting down six German planes as a lieutenant in the 95th Aero Squadron. By the war's end he was a major.
        After the war, Mr. Curtis returned to Rochester, where he worked for Eastman Kodak.
        He re-entered the service in 1940 and served in World War II as a major and later major general.
        It was during World War II, in which he served as executive assistant to Gen. Carl Spaatz, chief of staff of the Strategic Air Force in Europe, that he came to the attention of General Eisenhower. Special Assistant for Aviation
        In July 1943, Mr. Curtis, then a brigadier general, received the French Legion of Honor and the United States Legion of Merit for his part in the war in Africa.
        After World War II, he returned to a manager's position at Kodak where he rose to become director, general manager of the internation division and vice president.
        In 1956, President Eisenhower appointed him as special assistant for aviation. Later that year, he was named by Eisenhower to head a commission to study the dramatic increase in airline traffic and to propose ways to deal with airplane traffic jams at airports.
        From that commission came a proposal to create a new Federal aviation agency that would replace the Civil Aeronautics Administration and the Civil Aeronautics Board to consolidate air operations, modernize the airways and to make and enforce safety rules.
        Out of that study came the ''positive control'' of high altitude traffic, as he called it, in which the pilot guides his plane along fixed routes dictated by ground-control centers and makes periodic position reports.
        Mr. Curtis retired from Kodak in 1962 after 42 years of service. He remained as a Kodak board member until 1969.
        Mr. Curtis is survived by his wife Agnes, a son and two daughters. A memorial service will be held tommorrow at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Rochester.
        Correction:  March 17, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
      