
       For decades until the 1960's, street-corner orators were a daily part of life in Harlem and a primary source of news and information. They would preach messages to passers-by of racial pride, black nationalism and self-sufficiency.
        For decades until the 1960's, street-corner orators were a daily part of life in Harlem and a primary source of news and information. They would preach messages to passers-by of racial pride, black nationalism and self-sufficiency.
        One of the last was Edward (Pork Chop) Davis, who became a living landmark standing on a stepladder on the southwest corner of 125th Street and Seventh Avenue, He would begin his husky-voiced oratory just around twilight, speaking for hours whether he had an audience of one or of hundreds.
        On Monday, Mr. Davis died after a long illness. He was 65 years old.
        Yesterday, more than 200 people said goodbye to Mr. Davis at Convent Avenue Baptist Church at 145th Street and Convent Avenue in Harlem and paid him tribute with waving black, red and green flags, stirring African drumbeats and a re-enactment of his street corner, step-ladder style of oratory. Praised by Officials
        Included among about a dozen people who paid tribute at the funeral service were Manhattan Borough President David N. Dinkins, Mayor James Usry of Atlantic City, City Councilman Hilton B. Clark, State Supreme Court Justice Bruce Wright of Manhattan, and Livingston L. Wingate, a retired State Supreme Court Justice.
        ''We praise Davis's legacy here today, because there are 297 other black mayors like me because of Pork Chop and people who believe like Pork Chop,'' said Mayor Usry. ''As long as we believe that we as blacks have to be active participants in every part of our lives, Pork Chop's memory will remain alive.''
        Mr. Dinkins, who wiped tears from his eyes remembering that Mr. Davis would never forget to ask about his mother, said, ''He was a source of inspiration and insight who stood for social justice and equality, he was the dean of street-corner orators.''
        Justice Wingate, who credited Mr. Davis with awakening his own racial pride, said Mr. Davis received the epithet of ''Pork Chop'' from a disgruntled man who didn't like one of his speeches. ''But Eddie, by his intellect and brilliance, glorified the name, and the name stuck.''
        Mr. Davis was a follower of the black nationalist teachings of Marcus Garvey, who began an unsuccessful ''back to Africa'' movement here in the 1920s. He promoted Garvey's philosophy of self-reliance, racial pride and economic self-sufficiency on the street corner for hours at a time.
        He was a respected community organizer who helped instigate a successful Harlem campaign called ''Don't Buy Where You Can't Work'' in the 40s and 50s that helped get jobs for thousands of blacks in retail stores. He was involved in, and worked for, a number of community organizations that were established to improve conditions in Harlem, including Model Cities and Neighborhood Board No. 4.
        During the 70's, Mr. Davis, a dropout who was self-educated and well-read, according to admirers, was a guest lecturer on politics, economics and African history at several colleges, including Pace and Cornell universities and Malcolm-King Harlem College.
        Born in Greenville, N.C., Mr. Davis was orphaned at age 3 and was adopted by Viola Foreman-Price, a teacher. In later years, Mr. Davis adopted her maiden name, adding it after the surname Davis. According to his wife Mattye-Jean Foreman and others, Mr. Davis became restless and while a teen-ager, began riding boxcars from town to town listening to community orators and developing a speaking style that would make him well-known within the black community.
      