
       Dr. Calvin E. Gross, a nationally known educator who served as New York City's superintendent of schools for two tumultuous years from 1963 to 1965, died at his home in San Antonio, Texas, on Saturday. He was 67 years old.
        Dr. Calvin E. Gross, a nationally known educator who served as New York City's superintendent of schools for two tumultuous years from 1963 to 1965, died at his home in San Antonio, Texas, on Saturday. He was 67 years old.
        His brief term in New York City was marked by controversy and criticism. Some observers attributed his difficulties here, in part, to his unfamiliarity with the city system.
        Others said that because he was an outsider, he was resented and undercut by those in the system, as he attempted to guide the system into an a new era of decentralization and integration.
        While balancing these issues on one hand, he also had to deal with parent boycotts by both blacks and whites, and settle a teachers' strike threatened for the start of the 1963-1964 school year. Education School Dean
        After leaving his position in New York City, he was dean of the school of education at the University of Missouri, in Kansas City, from 1965 to 1972.
        He then served, until 1978, as president of the National College of Education in Evanston, Ill. The college specializes in the training of early childhood and elementary-school teachers.
        From 1978 until his death, Dr. Gross was superintendent of schools in the Alamo Heights Independent School District, a subdivision of San Antonio, since 1978.
        Dr. Gross was born April 8, 1919, in Los Angeles, Calif. He received his bachelor's degree in mathematics in 1940 from the University of California.
        He was a graduate assistant in mathematics at Oregon State College for a year before entering the Army in 1941. He served as commanding officer of an antiaircraft battery and later as information and education officer in Paris, receiving his discharge in 1945 as a captain.
        Returning home, he married Bernice Hayman in 1946 and resumed his academic career, receiving his master's degree in 1947 from the University of Southern California and his doctorate in education from Harvard in 1955.
        He served as superintendent of schools in several districts, including Weston, Mass., Schenectady, N.Y., and Pittsburgh, where he won national praise as an innovative educator.
        He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Gigi McEver of San Antonio; two sons, Gary of Charlotte, N.C., and Glenn of Houston; a brother, Kenneth of Solana Beach, Calif.; a sister, Margaret Anderson of Mission Viejo, Calif., and one grandchild.
        A memorial service is to be held on Thursday at 10 A.M. at the Marguerite B. Parker Chapel at Trinity University in San Antonio.
        DR. CALVIN E. GROSS, 67, DIES
      