
       Richard Dougherty, a former vice president of the Metropolitan Museum who was also a novelist, died of lung cancer Tuesday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 65 years old.
        Richard Dougherty, a former vice president of the Metropolitan Museum who was also a novelist, died of lung cancer Tuesday in Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Dougherty lived in Quogue, L.I., and also had an apartment in Manhattan. He served as press secretary for George McGovern's Presidential campaign in 1972 and as Deputy Police Commissioner of New York City for community relations in the 1950's. He had earlier been a newspaperman.
        He joined the museum in 1974 with the title of vice director for public affairs, which was later changed to vice president for public affairs. He retired in 1984.
        At the museum, he was in charge of fund raising, membership and public relations. Fund raising flourished in his era and the membership of the museum more than doubled, Emily Rafferty, the vice president for development, said yesterday; it is now 110,000, which is the largest membership of any museum in the United States.
        Philippe de Montebello, the director of the museum, said Mr. Dougherty was ''outrageously charming, funny, outspoken and so often right.''
        He added, ''I'll deeply miss his counsel and good cheer.''
        Thomas Hoving, the director of the museum from 1967 to 1977, said Mr. Dougherty was ''one of the brightest sparklers at the museum in his day; he brought that professionalism and experience that you get as a journalist, with a lot of political smarts.''
        Mr. Hoving, now editor in chief of Connoisseur magazine, said Mr. Dougherty played important roles ''in puncturing every hot-air balloon in sight'' at the museum and in bringing it ''into the real world of the late 20th century.'' Consultant to Museum
        After retiring, Mr. Dougherty was a consultant to the museum, advising executives and coordinating the search committee that chose the new president, William H. Luers - a former United States Ambassador to Czechoslovakia and Venezuela - to succeed William B. Macomber, who retired in June.
        Fund-raising innovations at the museum while Mr. Dougherty was vice president included the creation of the business committee, an advisory group that helps raise money from the business community, and other, similar panels.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Dougherty was the New York bureau chief of The Los Angeles Times. He was with The New York Herald Tribune as a reporter, from 1948 to 1951, and as a national political writer in its Washington bureau, from 1964 to 1966.
        He wrote five novels, ''A Summer World'' (1960); ''Duggan'' (1962); ''The Commissioner'' (1962), which was the basis for the movie and television series ''Madigan''; ''We Dance and Sing'' (1971), and ''Botch/Up,'' which he finished shortly before his death, as well as a nonfiction book, ''Goodbye, Mr. Christian: A Personal Account of McGovern's Rise and Fall'' (1973).
        During his varied career he was also a playwright and a television news executive and held other posts in journalism and public affairs.
        A native of Bolivar, N.Y., Mr. Dougherty was a sergeant in the Army Air Force during World War II and earned an A.B. degree from Columbia University in 1948.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cynthia Abbott; two sisters, Maureen Nagle of Bolivar and Elizabeth Kornreich of Manhattan, and a daughter, Elizabeth Dougherty.
        A memorial service is scheduled on Jan. 9 at 4:30 P.M. in St. Bartholomew's Church, 109 East 50th Street.
        RICHARD DOUGHERTY, 65, DIES
      