
       Gerald Moore, an English pianist whose sensitive performances and articulate advocacy helped elevate accompaniment to a high level of musical endeavor, died in his sleep Friday at his home in Buckinghamshire, England. He was 87 years old.
        Gerald Moore, an English pianist whose sensitive performances and articulate advocacy helped elevate accompaniment to a high level of musical endeavor, died in his sleep Friday at his home in Buckinghamshire, England. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Moore, whose career spanned more than half a century, served as accompanist, on disk and in concert, to most of the major artists of his time. Although he appeared several times as a soloist in his youth and was a splendid interpreter of the duo-sonata literature, he made his most vivid impression in the song repertory, where his performances with Elena Gerhardt, Elisabeth Schumann, John McCormack and later with Victoria de los Angeles, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf were hailed as exemplary partnerships.
        ''Moore's strength lay not only in the vastness of his repertory,'' William S. Mann wrote in the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, ''nor even in the beauty of his legato playing, his subtle command of pedaling and his mastery of tone color, but more especially in his chameleonic empathy with every musical partner - whether Casals, Chaliapin or a young debutant recitalist - and his readiness to turn every partnership to musical advantage of a refreshing and inspiriting nature.''
        Over the course of his career, Mr. Moore recorded virtually all of Hugo Wolf's lieder, most of the songs of Richard Strauss and more than 500 Schubert songs. In addition to the Austro-Germanic repertory, Mr. Moore was equally at home with the Spanish cancion (he often accompanied Miss de los Angeles in this music) and the French melodie (he made a memorable series of disks with Maggie Teyte). Recorded Farewell Recital
        Such was his reputation that the Grand Prix du Disque, usually reserved for outstanding soloists, was awarded to Mr. Moore on four occasions. When he retired from concertizing in 1967, his farewell recital - in which he was ''accompanied'' by Miss de los Angeles, Miss Schwarzkopf and Mr. Fischer-Dieskau - was recorded by EMI.
        Mr. Moore insisted that he was not a ''born'' accompanist. ''This old cliche is constantly applied to anybody in any walk of life and is, in my opinion, absolute nonsense,'' he wrote in a witty, anecdotal autobiography, ''Am I Too Loud?'' (1962). ''Surely it is just as fatuous to say that a man is a born diplomat, a born leader of men, or a born drunkard. It must be environment, training, experience which, creating the opportunity, make the man. The use he makes of all these determines whether he turns diplomat or rises to the dizzy heights of accompanying. I cultivated a taste for the art in the same way that an epicure cultivates a taste for good wine and cigars.''
        Gerald Moore was born in Watford, England, on July 30, 1899, and took his first piano lesson at the age of 6, at the insistence of his mother. ''It seems to me that as soon as I could toddle I was seized and flung, literally, at the piano,'' he recalled. When he was 13, the family moved to Canada and it was there, some three years later, that Mr. Moore began his career, accompanying a cellist and a tenor on a tour through several provinces. He was paid $40 for the entire trip, which he later estimated came out to about $1 a concert.
        In 1919, Mr. Moore returned to England to study. His early teachers included Wallis Bandey, Michael Hambourg and Mark Hambourg, but he considered the tenor John Coates, with whom he began working in 1925, to be the man who taught him about accompaniment. ''He would listen carefully and critically to every note in my part,'' Mr. Moore wrote in ''Am I Too Loud?'' ''It was a tough school; after two hours of slogging study he would say it was now time to start work. 'You play that as if you had never been in love.' 'Have you no zest for living?' 'This is angry, all venom, and you sound like a blancmange.' All this was hurled at me with scorn and acidity. Many a time I felt like revolting under the lash of his tongue but, thank God, I stuck it.'' A Good Raconteur
        The remainder of Mr. Moore's career was a nonstop succession of great singers and instrumentalists, tours and recordings. A spirited raconteur, Mr. Moore was full of stories and opinions about the people he worked with. He enjoyed accompanying the young Yehudi Menuhin, found Chaliapin playful but rather intimidating, and loved Elisabeth Schumann - ''An adorable person who, like her singing, was all sunshine. She sang with a smile.'' He admired the ''shattering honesty'' of John McCormack and compared the voice of Kathleen Ferrier to a ''pure crystal stream.'' Of Mr. Fischer-Dieskau he said: ''He has taken me deeper into the heart of song than I have ever been before.'' And of Miss de los Angeles: ''After a lifetime of listening to hundreds upon hundreds of lovely voices I would say without hesitation that for the sheer quality of sound, Victoria's affects me more than any other.''
        Mr. Moore began a second career during World War II when the pianist Myra Hess invited him to lecture on the art of accompaniment at the National Gallery. He repeated his lecture, which was published as ''The Unashamed Accompanist,'' throughout Britain and the United States; it was later recorded and was most recently available on Seraphim Records. Mr. Moore also gave regular master classes throughout the world on the subject of interpretation. He wrote several books, including ''Singer and Accompanist'' (1953), ''The Schubert Song Cycles'' (1975) and ''Farewell Recital'' (1978).
        After Mr. Moore's retirement from the recital stage, he continued to record, to teach and to lecture for some years. In the summer of 1971, he was the artistic director of a song festival in London. In 1973, he was awarded the Hugo Wolf Medal in Vienna.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Enid Kathleen Richard, whom he married in 1942.
        GERALD MOORE IS DEAD AT 87
      