
       Santo Trafficante Jr., one of the last of the old-time reputed Mafia dons, who was reportedly enlisted in 1960 in a futile effort to kill Fidel Castro, has died at the age of 72.
        Santo Trafficante Jr., one of the last of the old-time reputed Mafia dons, who was reportedly enlisted in 1960 in a futile effort to kill Fidel Castro, has died at the age of 72.
        Henry Gonzalez of Tampa, a longtime friend and lawyer, said Mr. Trafficante died late Tuesday at the Texas Heart Institute in Houston, where he had gone for heart surgery.
        Patti Jamison, a spokeswoman for the Heart Institute, said, ''At the request of his family, no information at all will be released.''
        Mr. Trafficante's Sicilian-born father was said to be one of those chiefly reponsible for what the Federal authorities call Tampa's ''era of blood,'' when rival crime families fought for control of lucrative Florida gambling from 1937 to 1945. When his father died in 1954, Mr. Trafficante assumed a mob leadership role, according to testimony before a United States Senate committee in 1963. He Was Linked to 4 Slayings
        Over the years, Mr. Trafficante was linked to at least four gangland slayings and testified about a plot to assassinate Mr. Castro, the Cuban leader. But he never served a long jail term. Last July a Federal judge dismissed charges of racketeering and conspiracy against Mr. Trafficante in a case that grew out of an undercover gambling inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Trafficante was accused of giving permission to underworld organizations in Florida to run gambling operations, in return for a share of the profits.
        The judge declared a mistrial after refusing to admit the key prosecution evidence, tape-recorded conversations between Mr. Trafficante and a mobster who was found dead with his hands cut off.
        Still pending against Mr. Trafficante was a 1981 Miami indictment charging him with participating in a conspiracy to accept kickbacks from concerns doing business with a health and welfare fund set up for the Laborers International Union of North America. Health Had Deteriorated
        Mr. Trafficante lived modestly, with homes in Tampa and North Miami Beach, and suffered from ill health in his later years. His lawyers cited Mr. Trifficante's heart, kidney and memory problems in gaining delays of his trial.
        Mr. Trafficante was among 57 reputed mobsters arrested when the authorities broke up an apparent underworld convention in Apalachin, N.Y., in 1957. Charges stemming from that arrest were later dropped.
        In the same year, Mr. Trafficante was questioned about the death of Albert Anastasia, a maverick mobster who headed the group dubbed Murder Inc. Mr. Anastasia's throat was slashed while he sat in a hotel barber shop chair in New York. Mr. Trafficante had checked out of a New York hotel earlier in the day. He was never charged in the case.
        In 1966, Mr. Trifficante was one of 13 people arrested in the basement of an Italian restaurant in Queens when the police broke up what they believed to be a meeting of Mafia leaders from all over the country. At the time, Chief Inspector Sanford D. Garelick called the meeting ''a little Apalachin.'' Mr. Trafficante was not convicted on any charge in the case.
        Throughout rounds of gangland wars, Mr. Trafficante suffered only an arm wound, from a shotgun blast fired into his automobile in 1953. 'I Thought I Was Helping'
        In 1978, appearing before a House panel looking into assassinations of political figures, Mr. Trafficante said he participated in a plot with the Central Intelligence Agency to assassinate Mr. Castro because ''I thought I was helping the United States Government.''
        Mr. Trafficante, who was granted immunity to testify, said he did nothing more than provide English and Spanish translations for others involved in the 1960 plot.
        He said he had been approached about participating by Johnny Roselli, a Mafia figure whose body was found in a metal drum in Biscayne Bay in 1976. Another mob figure in the plot, Sam Giancana, was shot to death in Chicago in 1975.
        Mr. Trafficante denied there was any mob plot to kill President Kennedy, despite testimony that Mr. Trafficante had once promised that Mr. Kennedy would not be re-elected. Mr. Trafficante supposedly had railed against the crackdown by the Kennedy Administration on organized crime.
        Mr. Trafficante had operated casinos in Havana until Mr. Castro came to power in 1959 and outlawed gambling. Mr. Trafficante told the Senate panel that he was held in ''sort of a concentration camp'' for two months before he was allowed to return to the United States.
        Mr. Trafficante is survived by his wife of 46 years, Josephine, two daughters and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 21, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      