
       Bil Baird, the puppeteer who enchanted millions of all ages with his ''little wooden ones'' and trained a generation of other gifted puppeteers, particularly the Muppets' creator, Jim Henson, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        Bil Baird, the puppeteer who enchanted millions of all ages with his ''little wooden ones'' and trained a generation of other gifted puppeteers, particularly the Muppets' creator, Jim Henson, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.
        His daughter, Laura Baird, said her father, weakened by bone marrow cancer, had succumbed to pneumonia.
        For more than half a century, Mr. Baird's imaginative creations, brought to life through hands or wires, appeared in the theater, in films and on television.
        With his third wife, Cora, he put on puppet shows from New York to the Soviet Union and India. His marionettes starred in the Ziegfeld Follies, broke box-office records on Broadway, were the dancing goats in the movie version of ''The Sound of Music,'' and strutted their stuff on television for Ed Sullivan, Jack Paar and Sid Caesar. The Bairds also had their own television program and made hundreds of commercials. Performing Stravinsky
        No project was too ambitious for Mr. Baird. His very animate objects formed the cast of actors and singers in Igor Stravinsky's performance piece, ''L'Histoire du Soldat,'' which succeeded with critics and audiences on its New York debut in 1982. It was put on again to acclaim the following year at the 92d Street Y. His full-length productions of ''Ali Baba,'' ''The Man in the Moon'' and ''Davy Jones's Locker'' were smash stage hits. His marionettes starred in three Broadway musicals - ''The Ziegfeld Follies of 1941,'' ''Flahooley'' and ''Baker Street.'' Mr. Baird also gave free matinees in the parks and before thousands of poor children in the Government's Head Start Project.
        Mr. Henson, who pushed the frontiers of puppet fantasy even further with his phenomenally popular and technically sophisticated Muppets, said Mr. Baird had taught him most of what he knew. At least 30 of Mr. Henson's puppeteers trained with Mr. Baird at his Greenwich Village theater.
        He grew in recent years to look a bit like an elf himself, fey and silver-haired, with twinkling eyes and a little beard, as he labored away in his Barrow Street workshop. A visitor there in the early 1980's said he alternately resembled a medieval wizard and one of Santa's helpers in the midst of walls and ceilings dripping with puppets and marionettes. His Cast of Characters
        Among the 3,000 characters he invented, the most beloved included Charlemane the Lion; Snarkey Parker, the master of ceremonies; the Spider Lady, who cast spells with such words as ''Elia Kazan!''; Bubbles La Rue, the exotic dancer; Groovy, the rabbit disk jockey, and Slugger Ryan, a cigarette-puffing, honky-tonk pianist.
        William Britton Baird was born in Grand Island, Neb. His father, an engineer, made him his first puppet when he was 8; at 14, the boy began constructing puppets and doing shows on his own. In high school in Mason City, Iowa, he built his own stage in the attic. He did a puppet version of ''Treasure Island,'' using an automobile dashboard for the lights.
        At Iowa State University he painted sets for the college players, and was art editor of Frivol, a humor magazine. He entered the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts in 1926 to specialize in stage design. It was here that he cut his nickname of Bill back to one ''l.'' He later said, ''I never hear anyone pronounce the other 'l' anyway.'' So ''Bil'' it became and remained.
        After leading a gypsy existence in France for a year, wandering the countryside and playing an accordion in cafes and restaurants, he returned to the United States. He went to work for Tony Sarg, a celebrated puppeteer, with whom he was associated for five years. He took ''Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves'' across the nation for 40 weeks of one-night stands. Afterward, he said, ''I never knew there were so many trains in America leaving at 5 o'clock in the morning.'' Welles's 'Dr. Faustus'
        When Orson Welles produced Marlowe's ''Dr. Faustus'' for the W.P.A. Federal Theater Project in 1936, he commissioned Mr. Baird to make puppets representing the seven deadly sins. A young actress, Cora Burlar, was assigned to speak the parts of Envy, Gluttony and Sloth. Soon thereafter, she recalled, ''I began to notice that the puppets on the College Humor magazine covers Bil was doing were beginning to look like me - slanty eyes, long legs and all.'' She married Mr. Baird in 1937, and until her death 30 years later, was his full partner in all his puppet productions.
        They acquired an old carriage house near the Hudson River and an adjacent building to house their puppet population, stage sets and props. The workshop was a tumble of legs, arms, heads and torsos of puppets in progress: until a character was fully developed, the Bairds would not put it in a show. Mr. Baird said that they used ''The Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals'' by Charles Darwin as a textbook.
        In the early years, the couple carved, painted and dressed all their creations, built the scenery, wrote scripts and often composed and played the music. According to Cora Baird, ''Bil fell into this work because it combined all the things he liked - sculpture, dance, music, painting and the theater.'' He loved classical music, and in 1958, received an Emmy nomination for his television production of ''Art Carney Meets Peter and the Wolf,'' set to Prokofiev's score. Mr. Baird was the author of the 1965 book ''The Art of the Puppet,'' a classic in the field.
        In addition to his daughter, Laura, who lives in Shaftsbury, Vt., Mr. Baird is survived by a son, Peter, of Manhattan, and a brother, George, of Westbury, L.I.
        A memorial service is to be held at 3 P.M. March 28 at the Community Church of New York, at 40 East 35th Street.
      