
       Robert Preston, who played the fast-talking, woman-chasing rascal of a traveling salesman, Professor Harold Hill, in ''The Music Man,'' died of lung cancer yesterday in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 68 years old and lived in Montecito, Calif.
        Robert Preston, who played the fast-talking, woman-chasing rascal of a traveling salesman, Professor Harold Hill, in ''The Music Man,'' died of lung cancer yesterday in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 68 years old and lived in Montecito, Calif.
        A veteran actor on Broadway and in many B-grade Hollywood pictures, Mr. Preston made his mark in Meredith Willson's classic tale of Americana. Mr. Preston won a Tony Award for his role as the charlatan musical-instrument salesman who drops into River City, Iowa, in the summer of 1912 intending to sell the citizens brass band instruments and gorgeous uniforms and then leave town.
        Professor Hill, a warm-hearted confidence man from Gary, Ind., neither reads music nor plays an instrument, and his motives are dishonest. But in the following weeks he whips the town band into shape. To the foot-thumping strains of ''Seventy-Six Trombones,'' Professor Hill enlivens the sleepy town as a Pied Piper of pomp and pageantry and wins the heart of the shy, town librarian in the process.
        ''As the infectious bunko man, Mr. Preston could hardly be improved upon,'' wrote Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times. ''His expansive energy and his concentration on the crisis of the moment are tonic.''
        Mr. Preston played Professor Hill on Broadway for two years beginning in 1957. The show ran for 1,375 performances on Broadway. The role of Harold Hill earned the Tony Award in 1958 for Mr. Preston and clinched the 1962 film role for him. 'A Turning Point'
        ''This part has been something of a turning point for me for,'' Mr. Preston said in 1959. ''I always used to be the villain or the comic butt of some show. I'm not complaining about all that, but it's a great feeling to be a character that the audience takes to its heart.''
        Mr. Preston's Broadway career included roles in ''Twentieth Century'' (1951) and ''The Male Animal'' (1952).
        Returning to Broadway after putting Professor Hill on film, Mr. Preston appeared in ''I Do! I Do!,'' which earned him another Tony, and ''The Lion in Winter.''
        On stage, Mr. Preston also starred in ''The Male Animal'' (1952), ''His and Hers'' (1953), ''The Tender Trap'' (1954), ''The Magic and The Loss'' (1954) and ''The Hidden River'' (1957).
        Among his films were ''Beau Geste'' (1940), ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' (1960), ''How the West Was Won'' (1963) and ''Victor/Victoria'' (1982).
        Robert Preston Meservey was born on June 8, 1918, in Newton Highlands, Mass. He grew up in Los Angeles and quit high school at the age of 16 to join a touring Shakespeare company managed by the mother of the actor Tyrone Power.
        After performing in 42 stage productions, Mr. Preston signed a contract with Paramount Pictures at the age of 19. In one of his first screen roles, he played Barbara Stanwyck's husband in ''Union Pacific,'' Cecil B. DeMille's salute to the iron horse.
        Mr. Preston's last movie role was as a sort of intergalactic talent scout in ''The Last Starfighter.''
        He also made two television movies in recent years. One of them, ''Finnegan Begin Again,'' co-starring Mary Tyler Moore, was the story of an aging newspaperman and his late-blooming love. ''Outrage'' was about a father whose daughter is raped.
        His only television series was ''The Chisolms,'' which ran on CBS in 1979 as a miniseries and continued the next year as a regular series.
        Mr. Preston is survived by his wife, Catherine; and his father, Frank Meservey Sr. of Los Angeles.
        There are no plans for a funeral service.
      