
       Hugh Brannum, who charmed millions of children as Mr. Green Jeans on the ''Captain Kangaroo'' television show, died Sunday at Pocono Hospital in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 77 years old and lived in Saylorsburg, Pa.
        Hugh Brannum, who charmed millions of children as Mr. Green Jeans on the ''Captain Kangaroo'' television show, died Sunday at Pocono Hospital in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 77 years old and lived in Saylorsburg, Pa.
        Mr. Green Jeans's green overalls, green plaid shirt and farmer's straw hat were almost as much a trademark of the early-morning children's show on CBS as the portly captain's mustache, the jacket with the piping on the sleeves and Bunny Rabbit.
        Bob Keeshan, who played Captain Kangaroo, once described Mr. Green Jeans as an ''uncomplicated agrarian type'' who loved to putter in his own garden. Mr. Brannum, Mr. Keeshan said, was ''hardly an actor - he was really playing himself.''
        The show was broadcast from 1955 until 1984, though reruns are still shown on some stations. Began as a Musician
        Mr. Brannum, a lanky man who was known as ''Lumpy,'' was born in Sandwich, Ill., on Jan. 5, 1910, the son of a Methodist minister. He attended the University of Redlands in Redlands, Calif., and got his start in show business in 1929 as a bass fiddle player at a small California radio station.
        He played in California dance bands until he joined three friends who formed their own group and went to New York as ''The Four Squires.''
        The orchestra leader Fred Waring heard them and hired them, and Mr. Brannum remained with Waring's Pennsylvanians as the bass player after The Four Squires broke up.
        When the television era arrived, Mr. Brannum wrote scripts and songs for Mr. Waring's television shows. 'Hubert the Horse'
        Mr. Brannum also wrote songs for children's records. These included ''Hubert the Horse'' and the ''Little Orley Stories,'' which Mr. Keeshan said yesterday were what brought Mr. Brannum to his attention in 1953. The two worked together on records before ''Captain Kangaroo'' went on the air.
        He is survived by wife, Joan, of Saylorsburg, and a son, Tom, of New York.
        HUGH BRANNUM, ACTOR, DIES
      