
       Xavier Fourcade, internationally known as a dealer in contemporary art and the founder and owner of the Xavier Fourcade Gallery in New York, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 60 years old.
        Xavier Fourcade, internationally known as a dealer in contemporary art and the founder and owner of the Xavier Fourcade Gallery in New York, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 60 years old.
        Founded in 1970, the Xavier Fourcade Gallery had a double distinction.
        Thanks to his energy, his dedication, his gift for diplomacy and his wide range of contacts both in the United States and in Europe, Mr. Fourcade was entrusted with the estates of Barnett Newman, Arshile Gorky, Tony Smith (shared with the Paula Cooper Gallery), Eva Hesse and H. C. Westermann.
        Among the living artists represented by the gallery were Willem de Kooning, Joan Mitchell, Raoul Hague, Malcolm Morley, John Chamberlain, Michael Heizer,Walter de Maria, Dorothea Rockburne, Catherine Murphy, Tony Berlant, William Crozier and Magdalena Abakanowicz. The Son of a Baker
        Mr. Fourcade was born in Paris on Sept. 20, 1926. He was the son of Jean Fourcade, a baker, and his wife, Christiane. He was educated at the Oratorian school of St. Martin in Pontoise, near Paris, and studied at the Ecole des Sciences Politiques and the Ecole des Langues Orientales in Paris, but in both cases left before graduation.
        In 1955, he came to the United States, where he made many friends in the New York art world. In 1966 he joined Knoedler & Company, and supervised its move from 57th Street to its present premises on West 70th Street. Encouraged by his friend Thomas B. Hess, then the editor of Artnews magazine, Mr. Fourcade opened his own gallery in 1970 and at once established himself as an outstandingly effective dealer in contemporary art. He had the satisfaction participating in the sale of Barnett Newman's ''Stations of the Cross'' to the National Gallery in Washington, of seeing Malcolm Morley awarded the Turner Prize in London, and of knowing that Willem de Kooning, in his late 70's, was more in demand than ever. In 1982 Mr. Fourcade became an American citizen.
        Mr. Fourcade is survived by his mother; three brothers, Bertrand, Vincent and Dominique, and a sister, Yvonne Panizza.
        A funeral mass will be said at St. Vincent Ferrer Roman Catholic Church, on Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, at 11 A.M. tomorrow.
        XAVIER FOURCADE DEAD AT 60  Correction:  May 2, 1987, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
      