
       John H. Manningham, the newly appointed secretary of the I.B.M. Corporation, and his wife, Patricia, were killed in a fire that swept their home in Ridgefield, Conn., early yesterday. He was 53 years old and she was 54.
        John H. Manningham, the newly appointed secretary of the I.B.M. Corporation, and his wife, Patricia, were killed in a fire that swept their home in Ridgefield, Conn., early yesterday. He was 53 years old and she was 54.
        The blaze, believed to have been accidental, was under investigation, according to the authorities in Ridgefield.
        Mr. Manningham, a personnel expert, had been named corporate secretary of I.B.M. on Feb. 24 and was to assume that post July 1. He joined the company in 1959 and had served as the corporate director of personnel management services since 1985.
        Mr. Manningham, a native of Milwaukee, received an A.B. degree in economics at Bowdoin College. He had served in the Marine Corps and the Coast Guard, where he completed active duty as a lieutenant (j.g.).
        Mrs. Manningham, the former Patricia Files, was a native of Belmont, Mass., and a longtime member of the Community Bible Study Group in Ridgefield.
        Mr. Manningham joined I.B.M. as a marketing representative in its Data Processing Division in Boston. He had held a series of management posts there and rose to industry marketing manager in 1968. He went to corporate headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., in 1975, and had served as program director of executive development and director of executive compensation.
        Surviving are three sons, Matthew, of Charlotte, N.C., Marine Lieut. J. Howard, of Pensacola, Fla., and James, of Winthrop, Mass.; three daughters, Susan Kipphut, of New Haven, Barbara Manningham of Ridgefield, and Laura Kurjiaka, of Stamford, Conn., and three grandchildren.
        Mrs. Manningham also leaves a sister, Ginny McCoy, of Cambridge, Mass., and Mr. Manningham leaves his parents, J. Howard and Mary Alice, of Winchester, Mass.; a brother, Daniel, of Mansfield, Ohio., and two sisters, Natalie Hamilton, of Worthington, Ohio, and Alice Brown, of Columbia, Md.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete last night.
        JOHN MANNINGHAM, 53, DIES
      