
       Alan J. Buchsbaum - an originator of the High Tech style and a New York architect who helped redefine Manhattan living styles by conceptualizing lofts as polished, high-design spaces -died yesterday at the University Hospital in Manhattan of complications from acquired immune deficiency syndrome. He was 51 years old and lived in the SoHo section of
        Alan J. Buchsbaum - an originator of the High Tech style and a New York architect who helped redefine Manhattan living styles by conceptualizing lofts as polished, high-design spaces -died yesterday at the University Hospital in Manhattan of complications from acquired immune deficiency syndrome. He was 51 years old and lived in the SoHo section of Manhattan.
        From 1967, when he established his practice in New York, Mr. Buchsbaum captured - in the houses, stores, apartments and lofts he designed - the informal and adventurous spirit of a generation of clients who had come of age in the 1960's. Designing witty, highly styled yet unpretentious interiors, he avoided the formality that had typified much apartment design in New York.
        Through his original uses of materials, images and off-the-shelf products, he set an influential example of design to accommodate the new informal lifestyle. Work Intensified the Moment
        Mr. Buchsbaum's work, which was neither sentimental about the past nor evangelistic about the future, intensified the moment - whether the 1960's, 1970's or 1980's. In the late 60's, he was one of the first architects to discover and use industrial objects in High Tech interiors.
        He also adapted the symbols of Pop culture to home and furniture design. In the 1960's, he designed an inflatable plastic hassock that appeared in the 1986 High Styles design show at the Whitney Museum of American Art. His precedent-setting commissions refined raw loft spaces into highly charged, personalized interiors.
        With his perennially fresh attitude -a recent job used the swiveling Bank of England accounting chairs, painted in pastels, around a dining table - Mr. Buchsbaum became a favorite designer among movie stars, including Diane Keaton and Bette Midler. Among his commercial designs were the New York shops for Charivari and Ecco shoes.
        At his death, he had nearly completed the renovation of the Nevele Hotel in the Catskills, highlighting its 1950's character. 'True to Modernism'
        ''He remained true to modernism, but managed to sensualize it with soft and rich forms, textures and colors -his work was brilliant and his research, ongoing and open-minded,'' said Michael Sorkin, the architecture critic of the Village Voice and a New York architect.
        Martin Filler, an editor with House & Garden, said: ''He had a better sense of interior design than most architects, and a more architectural understanding of space than most interior designers.''
        Mr. Buchsbaum, who was born in Savannah, Ga., in 1936, received his Bachelor of Science degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and his Bachelor of Architecture Degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1961. After working for several New York offices, he established his own firm.
        Mr. Buchsbaum is survived by his mother, Ida Buchsbaum Gottlieb, of Savannah, and his sister, Gloria Smiley, of Atlanta.
        A private memorial service will be held April 24 in one of the many downtown lofts he designed.
      