
       Clifford L. Fitzgerald, for many years one of Manhattan's most prominent advertising agency executives, died Thursday at his home in Thomasville, Ga. He was 83 years old and also lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        Clifford L. Fitzgerald, for many years one of Manhattan's most prominent advertising agency executives, died Thursday at his home in Thomasville, Ga. He was 83 years old and also lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was chairman emeritus of DFS Dorland Worldwide Inc., an advertising agency in Manhattan that is the 12th largest in the world in total billings.
        DFS Dorland grew out of Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, a Chicago agency formed in 1943 by the partnership of Mr. Fitzgerald, Glen Sample and Mix Dancer. In 1945, Mr. Sample retired and the remaining partners moved the agency to Manhattan and into the era of the televised commercial.
        The foundations of the agency's business were its General Mills and Procter & Gamble accounts, which continue to be central to its business. Role in Ad Campaigns
        Mr. Fitzgerald helped to develop the advertising campaigns for Procter & Gamble's Bounty paper towels and the Cheerios breakfast cereal of General Mills.
        In 1986, Dancer Fitzgerald Sample merged with Britain's third largest agency, Dorland Advertising of London, to form DFS Dorland Worldwide Inc.
        Mr. Fitzgerald, an alumnus of Dartmouth College, began his advertising career in 1924 in New Orleans. He started his own agency a few years later. In 1937, Mr. Fitzgerald left his agency to go to Chicago to become vice president and manager of the Sherman K. Ellis Agency.
        In 1941, he was hired by Glen Sample of the Blackett Sample Hummert Agency in Chicago. This meeting with Mr. Sample led to the formation of Dancer Fitzgerald Sample in 1943.
        Mr. Fitzgerald is survived by his wife, the former Isabel Hanway; two daughters, Shirley Gately, of Winnetka, Ill., and Joan Schaffer, of Greenwich; a son, Clifford L. Jr., of Stamford, Conn., 14 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      