
       Buddy Rich, a hot-tempered musician who drummed his way through vaudeville shows and big bands, died yesterday at UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 69 years old.
        Buddy Rich, a hot-tempered musician who drummed his way through vaudeville shows and big bands, died yesterday at UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Rich, who played with Artie Shaw and Tommy Dorsey before starting his own band 21 years ago, was hospitalized last month in New York after suffering a paralysis on his left side that physicians initially believed had been caused by a stroke.
        But after he was transferred to UCLA for tests, doctors discovered and removed a brain tumor on March 16. He was discharged a week later but had been receiving daily chemotherapy treatments at the hospital since then, hospital officials said. He died of sudden unexpected respiratory and cardiac failure after his treatment yesterday, a hospital spokesman, Richard Elbaum, said.
        Mr. Rich, a slightly stooped bantamweight with close-cropped hair and drowsy-looking eyes, was at once a dancer, drummer and singer. But above all, he was a drummer's drummer. Musicians marveled at the fact that he never practiced and that his hands were free of the calluses that afflict other drummers. Known for Temper
        His career was a mixture of acclaim for his virtuoso drumming and a running series of furniture-smashing, cymbal-throwing encounters. John S. Wilson wrote in The New York Times in 1974: ''He has battled it out with Frank Sinatra, who was his roomate for two years when they were both in Tommy Dorsey's orchestra. He has taken on all comers in parking lots around the country.''
        Bernard Rich was born in the Sheepshead Bay section of Brooklyn in 1917. Some biographies list his birth date as June 30, others as Sept. 30.
        His talent became apparent while he was still quite young. His father recalled that in restaurants, Buddy Rich would tap knives and forks on the plates. Even when he was an adult, the family would stay up until he came home from playing sets with Tommy Dorsey at the Hotel Astor in the early 1940's.
        He made his stage debut, in his parents' vaudeville act, before he was 2 years old. When his parents left him in the wings for their solo numbers, he would crawl into the orchestra pit, climb onto the drummer's lap and beg for the sticks.
        By the time he was 4, he was a Broadway song-and-dance prodigy known as Baby Traps the Drum Wonder, banging out ''Stars and Stripes Forever'' on his tiny drum.
        Then he went on a tour of the United States and Australia, leading his own band. By the time he was 15, Buddy Rich was earning a weekly salary of $1,000, making him second only to the actor Jackie Coogan as the highest-paid child performer of the 1930's.
        One night in 1937, after a jam session at the Crystal Cafe in Brooklyn, he joined Joe Marsala's band and began a period in which he hopped from one band to another. After a year, he joined Bunny Berigan, only to leave six months later for Artie Shaw's group.
        But Mr. Rich's work with Mr. Shaw came to a brusque finale at Manhattan's Pennsylvania Hotel when Mr. Shaw stormed off the stage in anger, abandoned the orchestra and departed for Mexico. Played With Dorsey
        He played with Tommy Dorsey from 1939 to 1942, joined the Marines, rejoined Dorsey briefly, and then led his own band until 1951. ''His drumming, as always, was astounding,'' wrote George T. Simon in his book ''The Big Bands.'' ''His singing, especially of 'Baby, Baby All the Time,' was delightful. And thanks to his years of experience in show business, he knew how to handle a crowd better than any other brand new bandleader did.''
        For a while, things went smoothly. The band enjoyed top bookings. But increasingly, the bandleader was drawn to jazz, even though, as Mr. Simon noted, his listeners were not. After little more than two years as a bandleader, he joined the touring Jazz at the Philharmonic troupe.
        Impressing his listeners with imagination, speed and dynamic control, Mr. Rich moved in and out of the Harry James band during the late 1950's and early 1960's.
        A heart attack in 1959 slowed his pace, and the big-band sound was disappearing from records, radio and television. By the time he finally parted company with Harry James in 1966, he was earning $1,500 a week and was listed in the ''Guinness Book of World Records'' as the highest-paid orchestral musician in the world.
        The new 16-piece Rich band was made up mostly of unknown younger players. It ''roused enthusiasm wherever it has played from coast to coast,'' Mr. Wilson noted in The New York Times in 1967. The repertory included a collection of blues and gospel, rock-and-roll and standard numbers arranged by orchestrator-composers including Oliver Nelson, Bill Reddie and Phil Wilson. The band toured England in 1968 with Tony Bennett.
        In 1968, Mr. Rich declared bankruptcy after he was fined $2,500 in Federal court for failing to report income in 1961. The Internal Revenue Service sold his house and furnishings in 1970 to pay his tax bill.
        He dissolved the band in 1974 and opened his own Manhattan club, Buddy's Place, with seats for 200 and a place for himself on stage. And he said that his temper mellowed when he learned karate. ''Karate teaches you that temper doesn't prove anything,'' the drummer said in 1974.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie, and a daughter, Kathy.
      