
       Erskine Caldwell, the prolific novelist whose accounts of deprivation and depravity in the Depression-era Deep South brought him instant fame and instant notoriety, died of lung cancer Saturday in Paradise Valley, Ariz. He was 83 years old and lived in Paradise Valley.
        Erskine Caldwell, the prolific novelist whose accounts of deprivation and depravity in the Depression-era Deep South brought him instant fame and instant notoriety, died of lung cancer Saturday in Paradise Valley, Ariz. He was 83 years old and lived in Paradise Valley.
        Mr. Caldwell wrote more than 50 books, including ''Tobacco Road'' (1932) and ''God's Little Acre'' (1933), which were two of the biggest sellers of all time but made Mr. Caldwell one of the most controversial writers in the United States. On Faulkner's List
        William Faulkner named Mr. Caldwell one of the five best contemporary American writers, along with himself, Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway and John Dos Passos.
        Mr. Caldwell received generally warm reviews for such novels as ''Journeyman'' (1933), ''Trouble in July'' (1940) and ''Tragic Ground'' (1944), each of which was part of a 10-novel ''Southern cyclorama'' that included ''Tobacco Road'' and ''God's Little Acre.'' Many critics also hailed ''Georgia Boy'' (1944) and ''In Search of Bisco'' (1965), the latter an evocative account of the author's unsuccessful search for a boyhood friend.
        Yet in recent years, while Mr. Caldwell remained popular in foreign countries, he lapsed into relative obscurity in the United States. It had been years since he wrote a big seller, and for the last 20 years or so he generally shunned interviews and public appearances. Moreover, his spare, direct prose style, which so captivated critics in the 1930's and 40's, eventually fell out of fashion and favor. An Anniversary Revival
        Mr. Caldwell enjoyed a brief revival in 1982, the 50th anniversary of the publication of ''Tobacco Road.'' New American Library marked the occasion by reissuing new paperback editions of ''Tobacco Road'' and ''God's Little Acre,'' which together had sold 17 million copies.
        The initial success of both those novels owed much to their shock value. Mr. Caldwell's direct style was never more evident than in the unadorned descriptions of Jeeter, Ellie May, Ty Ty, Darling Jill and a galaxy of other poor Southern whites publicly parading their fiery passions, erotic appetites, petty jealousies and frequent fits of anger. Their language would cause little stir today, but 50 years ago it was considered so obscene that the books were banned in a number of cities and removed from the shelves of many libraries.
        Mr. Caldwell took the controversy over his ''dirty'' books in stride, yet he never resigned himself to attempts to force him into a literary or political mold. Because many of his books dealt with the Deep South, some critics tried to link him with the so-called ''Southern tradition,'' despite his insistence that he belonged to no literary school and that many of his books were about other areas of the country and other parts of the world.
        Because his early books called attention to the plight of the sharecroppers, he was hailed as America's premier proletarian novelist. That distinction won him a large following in the Soviet Union, where for years he was one of the most popular American authors, but during the cold war it also won him the enmity of some American conservatives, who denounced him as a tool of Moscow.
        Through it all, Mr. Caldwell insisted that his purpose had never been to change the world but only to report on it.
        ''I was not trying to prove anything,'' he said in 1982. ''I was writing about the people I knew. I lived in the same neighborhood as the Tobacco Road fraternity and I went to school in the area. I knew very little about life outside the South. I was only trying to tell a story.''
        That attitude typified Mr. Caldwell's views generally. Asked in an interview in The Georgia Review in 1982 whether he had become involved in the civil-rights movement of the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Caldwell replied that he had not.
        ''Naturally, I approved of the attempt to desegregate the South because my sympathy has long been that segregation is wrong and should be terminated,'' he said. ''So I watched with interest what went on. But I'm a writer, not a crusader. I leave the crusading to others.'' Father a Clergyman
        Mr. Caldwell was born Dec. 17, 1903, on what he described as ''an isolated farm deep in the piney-woods country of the red clay hills of Coweta County, in middle Georgia.'' He traveled the region's many tobacco roads with his clergyman father, during which he observed the habits and speech patterns that he would later incorporate into his writing.
        He briefly attended the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Virginia, but he left to become a reporter on The Atlanta Journal, at a salary of $25 a week.
        In 1925 he married Helen Lannegan, with whom he later had three children and from whom he was later divorced, and the following year he settled on a farm in Maine where for the next seven years he tried to succeed as full-time writer.
        'I was sort of a caretaker, so I didn't have to pay rent,'' he recalled. ''I raised potatoes so I always had something to eat and I cut wood to keep warm. I had the good fortune to persuade a woman on The Charlotte Observer to let me review books. It didn't pay anything, but when I finished the reviews I'd sell the books for 25 cents to secondhand bookstores.''
        In an autobiography, ''Call It Experience'' (1951), Mr. Caldwell recounted how he sent one story a day for a week to Maxwell Perkins, the Scribner's book editor who doubled as editor of Scribner's Magazine. Mr. Perkins rejected them all, so Mr. Caldwell sent him two stories a week until the editor finally accepted two of them to run in the same issue of the magazine. Wrong Impression on Offer
        When Mr. Perkins said he would pay ''two-fifty'' for both of them, Mr. Caldwell replied: ''Two-fifty? I don't know. I thought maybe I'd receive a little more than that.'' So Mr. Perkins upped the payment to three-fifty. ''I guess that'll be all right,'' Mr. Caldwell replied. ''I'd thought I'd get a little more than three dollars and a half, though, for both of them.''
        A mystified Mr. Perkins replied: ''Three dollars and fifty cents? Oh, no! I must have given you the wrong impression, Caldwell. Not three dollars and a half. No. I meant $350.''
        By then Mr. Caldwell had already written the novels ''The Bastard'' (1929) and ''Poor Fool'' (1930) as well as ''American Earth'' (1930), a collection of stories.
        Soon afterward he sold ''Tobacco Road'' to Mr. Perkins, and he never again had to worry about succeeding as a full-time writer. Jack Kirkland's stage adaptation of the novel ran for seven and a half consecutive years on Broadway, beginning in 1933, bringing the author $2,000 a week in royalties. Hollywood also bought the book, but Mr. Caldwell described Darryl Zanuck's 1941 movie version as ''one of the most conspicuous failures in cinematic history'' because of its falsified happy ending.
        Mr. Caldwell wrote two dozen novels, 10 short-story collections, an autobiography, a dozen works of nonfiction, plus four books with the photographer Margaret Bourke-White. They married in 1939, two years after collaborating on ''You Have Seen Their Faces,'' a text-picture book about the South, and subsequently collaborated on books about prewar Czechoslovakia and wartime Russia.
        Mr. Caldwell reported from the Soviet Union in 1941 for Life magazine, CBS radio and the newspaper PM. He wrote Hollywood scripts for about five years, and he also wrote articles from Mexico and Czechoslovakia for the North American Newspaper Alliance. Home-State Honors in 1980's
        In 1942, after a divorce, Mr. Caldwell married June Johnson, with whom he had a son, Jay. In 1957, after they divorced, he married Virginia Fletcher, who drew the illustrations for several of his more recent books. They lived for many years in San Francisco, until moving to Scottsdale, Ariz., in 1977.
        In 1984, he was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters. In 1985, as part of a program organized by the Georgia Endowment for the Humanities, Mr. Caldwell was invited back to Georgia, which he fled in the 1920's, and there were teas and lectures and even a Sunday picnic in his honor.
        Mr. Caldwell said that even then, so many years after the publication of the two novels that brought him fame, there was a woman at the county library who wanted nothing to do with him. ''She wouldn't talk to me - she avoided me whenever I came by,'' Mr. Caldwell said during his visit. ''Whenever I walked through the library, I could feel her cold stare.''
        ''There's been great economic and social change in Georgia, as elsewhere in the South,'' Mr. Caldwell said in an interview in The New York Times in 1982. ''With all the Federal and state money, there is not the dire poverty that I saw. The remnants of Tobacco Road are still there, back in the ravines and hollows of the mountains, but the sharecropper existence has disappeared and people can apply for food stamps.''
        As to whether his books had helped accelerate that change, Mr. Caldwell replied: ''It's been said that they allowed people to see with their own eyes what they couldn't see from calculated ignorance or blindness. But remember, I didn't try to change or reform the world; I only wanted to report on it.''
        A heavy smoker since 1918, Mr. Caldwell had twice undergone operations for removal of portions of his lungs.
        He is survived by his wife, Virginia, and four children.
        ERSKINE CALDWELL, 83, IS DEAD
      