
       Bruce Savan, a leading New York theatrical agent whose clients included such artists as Sam Waterston, Bernadette Peters, Vanessa Redgrave, Peter Allen and Mary Tyler Moore, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Mr. Savan, who was 59 years old, had been suffering for several months from acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
        Bruce Savan, a leading New York theatrical agent whose clients included such artists as Sam Waterston, Bernadette Peters, Vanessa Redgrave, Peter Allen and Mary Tyler Moore, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Mr. Savan, who was 59 years old, had been suffering for several months from acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
        For the last 23 years Mr. Savan, who lived in Manhattan, had been vice president and head of the theatrical department of the Agency for the Performing Arts, which has its New York offices at 888 Seventh Avenue.
        Before becoming an agent, Mr. Savan was a singer and performer, dating from his high school days in Portland, Ore. As a schoolboy he was a co-star on a local radio show with Jane Powell, whom he later represented in her acting and singing career.
        Bruce Sheldon Savan was born in Portland on July 11, 1927, the son of Joseph and Florence Anthone Savan. He attended Portland schools and in 1950 received a bachelor's degree cum laude from the University of Southern California. He studied music with Benjamin Britten and Carl Ebert. Broadway Stage Manager
        Mr. Savan served in the Army and during his senior year at U.S.C. was music director for Republic Pictures in Hollywood. After being stage manager for touring plays, Mr. Savan moved to New York, where he was stage manager for ''Time Out for Ginger'' in 1952 and ''The Girl in Pink Tights'' in 1954.
        He shifted his career into talent management in 1954, joining the William Morris Agency. Later he was president of Savan, Levinson, Parker Inc., and joined the Agency for the Performing Arts in 1964. As an agent, Mr. Savan helped shape the budding careers of such performers as Elvis Presley, Carol Burnett, John Davidson, Elizabeth Ashley and Blythe Danner.
        Among his clients at the time of his death were Ron Leibman, Werner Klemperer, Remak Ramsey and Richard Thomas, all actors; Tony Charmoli and Louis Falco, choreographers; the director Michael Kahn, and Nikos Psacharopoulos, artistic director of the Williamstown (Mass.) Theater Festival.
        Mr. Savan is survived by a sister, Sally Safir Heimann, and two nieces, Lisa and Shelly Safir, all of New York.
        A funeral service will be at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st Street and Madison Avenue.
        BRUCE SAVAN IS DEAD AT 59
      