
       Anatoly V. Efros, the director of Moscow's Taganka Theater and a leading Soviet director for the last 20 years, died of a heart attack today, the official news agency Tass announced. He was 61 years old.
        Anatoly V. Efros, the director of Moscow's Taganka Theater and a leading Soviet director for the last 20 years, died of a heart attack today, the official news agency Tass announced. He was 61 years old.
        Mr. Efros, who served as director of three other Moscow theaters before being named to head the popular and turbulent Taganka in 1984, was best known for his relatively low-key, thoughtful staging of such Russian classic masters as Chekhov and Gorky.
        ''He had an uncanny ability to capture the subtle philosophy of a play,'' Aleksandr I. Gelman, a playwright and friend of Mr. Efros's, said.
        ''He was one of the four directors who resurrected our theater during the 1960's,'' Mr. Gelman added, referring to the years of cultural thaw that began under Nikita S. Khrushchev. In the Shadow of Lyubimov
        Mr. Efros, however, never achieved the dramatic popularity of some other Moscow directors, notably Yuri Lyubimov, the man he replaced at the Taganka.
        Mr. Lyubimov, whose flamboyant and pointed staging of modern Soviet works such as Mikhail Bulgakov's ''Master and Margarita'' defined what was acceptable in Soviet theater until the early 1980's, had his Soviet citizenship lifted and is currently directing an adaptation of Dostoyevsky's ''Crime and Punishment'' at the Arena Stage in Washington.
        Mr. Lyubimov said last week that the Soviet Embassy in Washington had approached him about returning home. This came against a background of rumors in Moscow that he might have been asked to replace Mr. Efros at the Taganka. Mr. Lyubimov has insisted, however, that he has no intention of returning.
        Mr. Efros, who had earlier headed the Central Children's Theater, the theater of the Leninist Komsomol and the Malaya Bronnaya Theater, was appointed to replace Mr. Lyubimov in 1984. Theater's Popularity Sagging
        ''He was a very good director, very much respected,'' said one Western cultural observer. ''But it was difficult taking over for Lyubimov. Some actors left, others remained on who might have preferred to leave. But Efros held it together.''
        Despite the respect accorded Mr. Efros within the theater world, however, he could not maintain the Taganka's popularity among Moscow audiences. Productions like his ''Lower Depths'' were warmly welcomed by both critics and theatergoers, but Taganka tickets were not as sought-after as they once had been.
        ''He was profoundly intelligent, he was honest, and he was modest,'' Mr. Gelman said.
        Mr. Efros is survived by his wife, Natalya, a theater critic, and a son.
        ANATOLY V. EFROS DEAD AT 61
      