
       Dick Shawn, the comic actor who played Hitler in the Mel Brooks movie ''The Producers,'' died Friday night after collapsing in front of an audience that at first thought the fall was a joke. He was 63 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        Dick Shawn, the comic actor who played Hitler in the Mel Brooks movie ''The Producers,'' died Friday night after collapsing in front of an audience that at first thought the fall was a joke. He was 63 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        The comedian was stricken in front of 500 to 600 people in a routine at the University of California at San Diego. He died about 45 minutes after he arrived by ambulance at the Scripps Memorial Hospital, said a hospital spokeswoman, Diane Yohe. ''They're assuming he had a heart attack,'' she said.
        Ken Leighton, a reporter for The Times-Advocate of Escondido, who was at the show, said that after the actor fell he lay face down on the stage for several minutes before his son, Adam, watching from a balcony, called for help. A doctor went to the stage and administered cardiac massage.
        Mr. Shawn was telling a joke in which there was a nuclear war and only the 500 people in the theater survived, said Mr. Leighton.
        ''And I would be your leader,'' Mr. Leighton quoted Mr. Shawn as saying an instant before he fell. 'Amazement and Shock'
        ''People thought it was a joke - they thought it was part of the act,'' said Mr. Leighton.
        Mr. Shawn's films included ''It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World'' in 1963 and ''The Producers'' in 1968, in which he played a hippie actor with the initials L.S.D. who portrays Hitler in a Broadway musical. In ''The Producers,'' characters played by Zero Mostel and Gene Wilder devise a get-rich scheme that calls for them to put on a flop musical titled ''Springtime for Hitler'' and then run off with their backers' money. But Mr. Shawn's hilarious portrayal of a hip, blues-singing Hitler makes the play a hit.
        Mr. Shawn's movies also included ''Love at First Bite'' in 1979, ''Wake Me When It's Over'' in 1960, ''A Very Special Favor'' in 1965 and ''What Did You Do in the War, Daddy?'' in 1966, and ''Maid to Order,'' scheduled for release this summer.
        On Broadway, he was in ''The Egg'' and ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum,'' in which he took over Zero Mostel's starring role. Mr. Shawn also appeared in television series, including ''St. Elsewhere.''
        Mr. Shawn was born Richard Schulefand in Buffalo and grew up in nearby Lackawanna.
        Survivors, in addition to his son, include three daughters, Amy and Jennifer, and Wendy Travolta, whose husband, Joey, is the brother of the actor John Travolta, all of Los Angeles; a brother, Seymour, of Buffalo, and a granddaughter.
        Funeral plans are incomplete.
      