
       Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was variously reported to be 78 or 79 years old.
        Antony Tudor, one of the foremost choreographers of the century and widely considered the master of the psychological ballet, died last night of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was variously reported to be 78 or 79 years old.
        Mr. Tudor, choreographer emeritus of the American Ballet Theater at his death, revolutionized ballet with his introduction of strong psychological motivation in choreography, reflecting the influence of Freudian thought.
        ''We do Tudor's ballets because we must,'' Mikhail Baryshnikov, artistic director of Ballet Theater, said last year at the ceremony in which Mr. Tudor was presented the Capezio Award. ''Tudor is our conscience.''
        Mr. Tudor was unexcelled at exploring the subtlest of emotional conflicts within the framework of classical ballet. Highly charged plot development and intensely natural character delineation marked the greatest of his works, among them ''Dark Elegies,'' which was his personal favorite, ''Jardin aux Lilas,'' ''Romeo and Juliet,'' ''Pillar of Fire'' and ''Undertow,'' a ballet that graphically depicted the development of a psychotic young murderer. Precision and Faithfulness
        ''Pillar of Fire,'' perhaps the best-known and most popular of his works, tells the story of a repressed spinster who throws herself at a sensual stranger in the belief that the man she loves prefers her nubile younger sister. Much is communicated in the ballet through the trapped character's torso, so rigidly held in a vertical column that at one famous moment in the dance she rises from a seated position on the floor to a standing position in one motion. In Mr. Tudor's stylized, highly compressed ''Romeo and Juliet,'' the whole of Romeo's impetuous character is communicated through a signature stiff, stubbing foot. And Mr. Tudor insisted that the dancers achieve each step and tilt of the body with utmost precision and faithfulness to the choreography.
        But Mr. Tudor had a streak of ironic, waspish humor, as well, that was responsible for such ballets as ''Gala Performance,'' a devastating sendup of three ballerinas of different national schools, and the darker ''Judgment of Paris,'' in which a drunken man-about-town chooses his favorite among three sleazy nightclub performers.
        His longtime associate, the dancer Hugh Laing, once observed in an interview in Dance Perspectives that ''Tudor went further into the depths of human emotion than any choreographer had done before him.''
        Mr. Tudor, whose real name was William Cook, was born in London on April 4, 1908 or 1909, and acquired a taste for theater as a child when he was taken to a traditional Christmas pantomime. In addition to the popular theater, he saw Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, and each additional exposure to dance made him more determined to pursue it himself. A Secret Student
        At the age of 16 he obtained a job as a delivery boy at London's Smithfield Market, where he remained for six years and rose to the position of clerk. Without consulting anyone, he began at 19 the daily study of ballet at the end of a workday that started at 6 A.M.
        He studied with Margaret Craske, a British dancer and teacher, and with Dame Marie Rambert, the Polish-born dancer and teacher who, with Dame Ninette de Valois, founded the modern British ballet movement. The latter farsightedly offered Mr. Tudor a position that freed him from the Smithfield Market. She hired him in 1929 as a general assistant to the Ballet Club. Working with the Rambert dancers, Mr. Tudor was present in the formative days of the British ballet, and in contact with such important figures as Frederick Ashton and the Russian ballerina Tamara Karsavina.
        In 1931, Mr. Tudor choreographed his first ballet, ''Cross Gartered,'' for Dame Marie's Ballet Club. She encouraged him to do more, and he produced his comic ''Lysistrata'' and ''Atalanta of the East.'' Though the latter was a failure, it began an important artistic and personal partnership with Mr. Laing.
        Mr. Tudor persisted, and in 1934 created ''The Planets,'' which was praised for its dramatic cohesion. Two years later he followed with ''Jardin aux Lilas,'' a tale of lovers constricted by Victorian convention. Eight Years for Success
        In 1937 he staged ''Dark Elegies,'' an abstract depiction of grief that, like ''Jardin,'' was to become a Tudor signature piece. In eight years he had moved from total obscurity to a substantial reputation in England. He formed a small company with Mr. Laing and with Agnes de Mille, who was dancing in London at the time, that in 1938 became the London Ballet. At Miss de Mille's suggestion, he and Mr. Laing were invited in 1939 to become charter members of the newly formed Ballet Theater.
        Mr. Tudor was the company's resident choreographer for the next 10 years. In addition to successfully restaging several of his older ballets -''Jardin aux Lilas,'' ''Dark Elegies,'' ''Judgment of Paris'' and ''Gala Performance'' - he began work on new ballets. By the time he left Ballet Theater in 1949 he had presented ''Pillar of Fire'' (1942), ''Romeo and Juliet'' (1942), ''Dim Lustre'' (1943) and ''Undertow'' (1945), works he set to music by such composers as Schoenberg, Delius and Richard Strauss.
        In 1945 he ventured into the Broadway musical theater, doing the choreography first for ''Hollywood Pinafore,'' a George S. Kaufman adaptation of Gilbert and Sullivan, and then for a Lerner and Loewe show, ''The Day Before Spring.'' Neither production was very successful.
        Mr. Tudor had danced since the start of his choreographic career, but his performances were marked more by his powerful stage presence than by exceptional technique. The choreographer was credited with the development of the peculiarly American, expressive dramatic ballerina, most notably Nora Kaye, who created the lead role in ''Pillar of Fire.''
        Mr. Tudor worked with his dancers on the motivational aspects of their characters and not on isolated individual steps, and sometimes got his ideas across in highly unorthodox and brutal ways. He abhorred the idea of dancers' counting musical time, but wanted them to understand the logical development of the phrases of movement and the forces driving the character. It was a Stanislavskian approach designed to immerse the dancer in every aspect of the role. Created Incidental Works
        During the 1950's and 60's Mr. Tudor concentrated on teaching at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School and later in the dance division of the Juilliard School. During these years he created incidental ballets for several companies, but these works lacked his former fire. ''Shadowplay,'' commissioned by Britain's Royal Ballet in 1968, was the first to recapture his former power.
        Mr. Tudor returned to American Ballet Theater as an associate artistic director in 1974 and in the same year was honored with an award from Dance Magazine.
        He found choreographing increasingly difficult as he grew older and moved less easily, as he confessed in an interview about ''The Leaves Are Fading,'' created in 1975 and a popular staple in Ballet Theater's current repertory, which includes four Tudor ballets. Like Michel Fokine, the choreographer he most admired, Mr. Tudor spent the bulk of his later years restaging the relatively small output of his early career.
        Mr. Tudor was named choreographer emeritus at Ballet Theater in 1980. His last work, ''Tiller in the Fields,'' created in 1978, was not well received, but Mr. Tudor's ballets have enjoyed renewed popularity in the last six years. ''Dim Lustre'' was revived in 1985, and a revival of ''Pillar of Fire'' is scheduled in the company's spring season, which opened last night at the Metropolitan Opera House. Mr. Tudor continued to work up to his death, rehearsing ''Pillar of Fire'' on Saturday in the company's studios.
        Last year Mr. Tudor was honored with New York City's Handel Medallion, and was a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors and the Capezio Award. With Martha Graham, he was awarded the first Dance/U.S.A. National Honors.
        At the Kennedy Center Honors ceremony in Washington, Agnes de Mille said of the choreographer: ''Tudor's work is the most emotionally expressive of any contemporary choreography, and it is universal. In Tokyo, Melbourne, Toronto, Stockholm, London, New York, Detroit, it goes straight to the heart while satisfying the mind.''
        There are no immediate survivors.
      