
       Carlos Baker, a Princeton University professor who wrote the authorized 1969 biography ''Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story'' and a 1952 book-length study, ''Hemingway: The Writer as Artist,'' died Saturday at his home in Princeton. He was 77 years old and had retired from teaching in 1977.
        Carlos Baker, a Princeton University professor who wrote the authorized 1969 biography ''Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story'' and a 1952 book-length study, ''Hemingway: The Writer as Artist,'' died Saturday at his home in Princeton. He was 77 years old and had retired from teaching in 1977.
        Reviewing ''Hemingway: The Writer as Artist'' in The New York Times Book Review when it first came out, Vance Bourjaily concluded that ''for scholars, the book is bedrock; on it will rest all future Hemingway studies, except for the purely critical.''
        Mr. Bourjaily also wrote in his 1969 review that after reading the 697-page biography, which included 101 pages of notes, he felt that ''the subject had still not been 'made to live again.' '' He wrote that the book was written in ''deliberately flat prose,'' and ''moves very slowly.'' But he added that ''Whatever its faults of movement, tone and focus, it seems very nearly complete and absolutely trustworthy as a record.''
        Mr. Baker, who was an expert on modern English and American literatrue, twice served as chairman of Princeton's English department and was the Woodrow Wilson Professor of Literature before he retired. Rhetorical Question
        An observer of the reading habits of undergraduates for many years, Mr. Baker wrote in The New York Times Book Review in January 1962 that the paperback revolution had increased the number of books students bought. He asked ''Do they read them after they buy them?'' and answered himself:
        ''No one knows except the individual student. Although the probability is that their eyes are bigger than their stomachs, their good intentions are better than their actual performances.''
        If any generalization fit the college reading habits of the '70s, he said, ''It is that this is the Generation of the Mixed Book Bag.''
        Mr. Baker was the author of numerous volumes of literary criticism, including ''Shelley's Major Poetry: The Fabric of a Vision,'' in 1948. The work was a study of Shelley's chief poems as an index to his imagination and intellectual development.
        Mr. Baker also edited volumes of poetry and prose by Wadsworth, Keats, Coleridge, Fielding and others, and contributed a chapter to the ''Literary History of the United States,'' in 1948.
        His first novel, ''A Friend in Power,'' was selected as one of the volumes to be digested and reprinted in the summer 1958 edtion of the Readers Digest Book Club. The book was a study of a man facing and using responsibility. The hero, like Mr. Baker, was a university professor.
        ''A Year and A Day,'' a collection of Mr. Baker's poems, was published in 1963. The 40 poems in the book represented a selection of his published verse over a 20-year period. An Emerson Project
        At the time of his death, Mr. Baker was at work on a biographical study of Ralph Waldo Emerson, the 19th-century poet and philosopher.
        Born in Biddeford, Me., Mr. Baker earned a bachelor's degree in 1932 from Dartmouth, a master's degree from Harvard in 1933 and a doctorate in 1940 from Princeton, where he had begun teaching in 1937.
        Mr. Baker wrote frequently for The New York Times Book Review, and for The New Republic and other periodicals. His other books included ''The Echoing Green: Romanticism, Modernism, and the Phenomena of Transference in Poetry'' (1984). He was also the editor of ''Ernest Hemingway: Selected Letters, 1917-1961'' (1981).
        Mr. Baker noted that Hemingway relaxed by writing letters, allowing himself to spout off, ramble on and even present invented yarns as fact in his correspondence. The edited collection includes nearly 600 of the thousands of letters that Hemingway wrote.
        In 1976, Mr. Baker served as chairman of the edtorial committee for the American Revolutionary Bicentennial Administration, which selected 100 masterpieces of American literature for future publication by the Franklin Library.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy T. Scott; three children, Diane Wagner of Mendham, N.J., Elizabeth Carter of Ridgewood, N.J. and Brian Baker of Little Rock, Ark., and six grandchildren.
      