
       David Hefner, the AIDS patient who renewed his wedding vows at St. Patrick's Cathedral after being told he would not be allowed to because of his illness, died Sunday night, one year after his diagnosis. He was 38 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        David Hefner, the AIDS patient who renewed his wedding vows at St. Patrick's Cathedral after being told he would not be allowed to because of his illness, died Sunday night, one year after his diagnosis. He was 38 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Hefner and his wife, Maria, had become the center of a controversy in January after their request to hold the ceremony had been turned down by the rector of St. Patrick's, Msgr. James F. Rigney.
        Monsignor Rigney said those in a ''life-threatening situation'' would get better premarriage counseling in a neighborhood parish than at St. Patrick's, the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
        The decision brought cries of protest from civil-rights groups and Protestant and Catholic clergy, several of whom invited the Hefners to be married at their churches. Decision Reversed
        After a few days, however, John Cardinal O'Connor, the Archbishop of New York, reversed the decision and permitted the marriage sacrament in the cathedral. The Cardinal attended the ceremony, which was held on Valentine's Day, Feb. 14, kissed the bride and shook hands with the bridegroom.
        Mr. Hefner, who came to New York from his native Texas with the hope of being an actor, worked in various salons as a hairdresser. In 1984, he married a customer, maria Riberio, in a civil ceremony. Mr. Hefner said he contracted acquired immune deficiency syndrome as the result of a homosexual affair prior to meeting his wife.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hefner is survivied by his parents, Thomas and Jeanne Hefner of Arlington, Tex.; a brother, Michael, of Austin, Tex., and a sister, Sherry Teuscher of Arlington.
        Mr. Hefner is to be cremated. A memorial service will be held Saturday at 9 A.M. at St. Patrick's.
      