
       William W. Turnbull, who was president of the Educational Testing Service in a period of ferment over its role and influence, died of heart failure Thursday during heart bypass surgery at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 67 years old and was a resident of Princeton, N.J.
        William W. Turnbull, who was president of the Educational Testing Service in a period of ferment over its role and influence, died of heart failure Thursday during heart bypass surgery at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 67 years old and was a resident of Princeton, N.J.
        Mr. Turnbull joined the nonprofit testing service, known best for its Scholastic Aptitude Test for college-bound students, in 1948, shortly after the organization's founding. In 1970, he was named its second president. He resigned in 1981.
        At the time of his death, he was a scholar in residence of the organization. Challenge From Nader
        In the late 1970's, while he was president, the testing service came under sharp criticism from Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, and others who challenged the validity of the organization's standardized tests. Among other contentions, they said the tests discriminated against the poor and members of minority groups.
        In 1980, in issuing a report on the testing service, Mr. Nader asserted that the Scholastic Aptitude Test and other tests designed by the service added little reliable information to high school grades for predicting academic performance in the first year of college.
        Mr. Turnbull in turn criticized Mr. Nader's report, saying there was ''very little in it that was new and that more of it is misleading than enlightening.''
        In an article in 1974, Mr. Turnbull addressed questions then being raised about tests. He argued that testing was still a young discipline with much to learn. ''Yet it is and has always been a part of human society,'' he said. ''Measurement in whatever form it takes is, like any other human endeavor, a complex activity, subject to error, not always used properly, and frequently misinterpreted and misunderstood.''
        Mr. Turnbull was born in Ontario, Canada, and studied at the University of Western Ontario. He earned his master's and doctorate degrees in psychology at Princeton in 1943 and 1944. He was head of the department of test construction of the College Entrance Examination Board from 1944 to 1948, when he joined the testing service.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; a daughter, Brenda Turnbull, of Washington; a brother, John H., of Toronto, and two granddaughters.
        WILLIAM W. TURNBULL IS DEAD
      