
       Dr. James G. Hirsch, a biological scientist, medical educator and president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, died of cancer yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. James G. Hirsch, a biological scientist, medical educator and president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, died of cancer yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Hirsch had been on the staff of Rockefeller University for 31 years and was dean of graduate studies there from 1972 until 1980. He was best known for his research on the relationship between the white cells in the blood and immune reactions.
        Virtually his entire career as a scientist was spent at Rockefeller University, or the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, as it was known in 1950 when he arrived there.
        Early in his career at Rockefeller, Dr. Hirsch supervised clinical investigations demonstrating for the first time that most tuberculosis patients receiving chemotherapy did not require prolonged bed rest. These studies radically changed treatment around the world, enabling patients to be cared for in local hospitals or at home instead of in sanatoriums. 'Studies Set Groundwork'
        Later, when Rockefeller University honored him in 1984 with the degree of Doctor of Science, a laboratory colleague, Dr. Zanzil Cohn, paid tribute to Dr. Hirsch, saying: ''His laboratory was a nucleus for investigators who wished to understand the cell biology of the immune response. His studies set the groundwork for all that followed.''
        In his more than 30 years as a researcher, Dr. Hirsch wrote more than a hundred scientific papers in his field. He also was an editor of the Journal of Experimental Medicine and an associate editor of several other medical journals. He was an editor of the textbook ''Bacterial and Mycotic Infections of Man.''
        In later years his writing reflected a growing interest in the history of medicine and science. Before the onset of his sickness in 1985, Dr. Hirsch was preparing a scientific biography of Dr. Paul Ehrlich, a German scientist who did pioneering work at the turn of the century in hematology, immunology and chemotherapy.
        The biography was to be based on Ehrlich papers that were made available by the scientist's two grandsons. The undertaking, which involved translating the material over a seven-year period, was a collaborative effort with his wife, Beate, who had been his technician and co-worker for 14 years. Known as a Conciliator
        During his long career Dr. Hirsch frequently presided at medical discussions, and those who knew him were impressed with the low-key manner in which he expressed his views and succeeded in conciliating the divergent opinions of others.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and many professional societies. He became president in 1981 of the Macy Foundation, where he initiated a progam to provide opportunities for doctoral candidates in the biological sciences to become familiar with human physiology and pathology, so they could pursue research on human disease.
        Dr. Hirsch, who was born in St. Louis on Oct. 31, 1922, graduated from Yale and received a medical degree from Columbia University in 1946. After an internship and residency in internal medicine at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis, he served for two years as chief of medicine at the Warren Air Force Base Hospital in Cheyenne, Wyo. Focus on Phagocytes
        He joined Rockefeller University as a visiting investigator on a research fellowship in 1950 and rose to become professor and head of the laboratory of cellular physiology and immunology in 1960.
        His research became focused on white bood cells called phagocytes, scavenger cells that seek out and kill invading microbes. His particular interest was in learning how they cooperate with other cells or systems in general immune responses.
        After moving to the Macy Foundation, a leading supporter of medical education, Dr. Hirsch mantained his affiliation with Rockefeller University as an adjunct professor.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Beate Kaleschke; their daughter, Rebecca, of Manhattan, and two children by a former marriage, Henry, of Hoboken, N.J., and Ann, who lives in London.
        JAMES G. HIRSCH IS DEAD AT 64
      