
       Herbert Jacobs, an emeritus lecturer at the University of California School of Journalism who helped change the course of American architecture, died of cancer last Wednesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        Herbert Jacobs, an emeritus lecturer at the University of California School of Journalism who helped change the course of American architecture, died of cancer last Wednesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 years old.
        In 1936, Mr. Jacobs and his wife, Katherine, invited Frank Lloyd Wright ''to design a house for the workingman.'' At the time, Mr. Jacobs had just started work as a reporter for The Capital Times in Madison, Wis. Wright's designs for wealthy clients had already established him as the nation's most famous architect.
        The house Wright produced, ''Usonia No. 1,'' was built on a concrete pad, one of several innovations that have since become standard for residential construction. Other revolutionary ideas, such as a flat roof and a carport rather than a garage, helped keep the cost below $5,500, a modest price for a new three-bedroom home even in the Depression.
        Unlike other suburban homes of the period, the Jacobs house stood close to the street, with banks of glass doors and windows overlooking the garden in the rear. The house became such an attraction for young architects, builders and tourists that the Jacobses began charging admission, which quickly paid for Wright's fee. Use of Solar Energy
        Seven years later, Mr. and Mrs. Jacobs asked Wright to design a home using passive solar energy techniques. The ''Solar Hemicycle,'' which the Jacobs family built on a farm outside Madison, pioneered techniques of energy conservation.
        Mr. Jacobs's relationship with Wright led to two books, one a biography of the architect, ''Frank Lloyd Wright: America's Greatest Architect,'' the other a memoir, ''Building With Frank Lloyd Wright.''
        Mr. Jacobs was born in Milwaukee in 1903. He graduated from Harvard College in 1926, and in 1931 joined the staff of The Milwaukee Journal.
        After his retirement in 1962, he joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley as a lecturer in journalism.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Susan Jacobs Lockhart of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Elizabeth Aitken of Woodside, Calif.; a son, William Jacobs, of Bloomington, Ind., and four grandchildren.
      