
       Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, a research psychiatrist, entrepreneur and philanthropist who became one of this country's leading art collectors and patrons, died of a heart attack yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Arthur M. Sackler, a research psychiatrist, entrepreneur and philanthropist who became one of this country's leading art collectors and patrons, died of a heart attack yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Sackler's collecting ranged over many cultures, from China and India to the Middle East; from pre-Columbian and Renaissance periods through the School of Paris. His holdings numbered in the tens of thousands.
        The physician, who made his fortune in medical advertising, medical trade publications and the manufacture of over-the-counter drugs, gave much of the art away, along with museums and galleries to house it. His latest benefaction is the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery at the Smithsonian Institution, a museum of Asian and Near Eastern art based on the gift of 1,000 items from his collections and a contribution of $4 million. The museum is to open in Washington next September. Benefactor to Harvard
        Dr. Sackler was also the principal donor of the museum at Harvard that opened two years ago bearing his name, built to contain works from Asia, the Middle East and the Mediterranean. With his brothers, Raymond and Mortimer, he helped to finance the construction and installation of the Sackler Wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which houses the Temple of Dendur and the Met's new Japanese galleries. And last September, he attended ground-breaking ceremonies for the Arthur M. Sackler Museum on the grounds of Beijing University; an archeological facility supported by Dr. Sackler and his wife, Jill, it will also teach museology to students.
        The sciences and humanities also benefited from Dr. Sackler's largess. Contributions of more than $2 million to Long Island University, where he established a laboratory for therapeutic research at the school of pharmacy, made him one of the largest donors to that institution. An $8 million contribution to Clark University in Worcester, Mass., helped to establish the Arthur M. Sackler Sciences Center there. And with his brothers, he helped set up biomedical institutions at Tufts University and New York University, as well as the Sackler School of Medicine in Tel Aviv. More Than 140 Research Papers
        Known in the scientific field as a pioneer in biological psychiatry, Dr. Sackler published, with his physician brothers and other collaborators, more than 140 research papers, most dealing with how alterations in bodily function could affect mental illness.
        He was the first to use ultrasound for medical diagnosis, and among other pioneering activities, identified histamine as a hormone and called attention to the importance of receptor sites, important in medical theory today.
        His art interests were eclectic, and he preferred the purchase of entire collections to that of individual pieces. He liked to think of himself as ''more of a curator than a collector.''
        ''I collect as a biologist,'' he once said. ''To really understand a civilization, a society, you must have a large enough corpus of data. You can't know 20th-century art by looking only at Picassos and Henry Moores.'' Studied at N.Y.U.  Dr. Sackler, born in Brooklyn on Aug. 22, 1913, to Isaac and Sophie Sackler, took a premedical course at New York University. He also studied art history at N.Y.U. and at the Cooper Union. To finance his medical studies at N.Y.U., he joined the William Douglas MacAdams advertising agency, a medical advertising concern, and eventually became its principal owner.
        In 1960, he began publication of Medical Tribune, a biweekly newspaper for doctors, which expanded into an international publishing organization with offices in 11 countries. In 1958, he founded the Laboratories for Therapeutic Research, a nonprofit basic research center at the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy of Long Island University, and served as its director until 1983. With his two brothers, Dr. Sackler also had an interest in the Purdue-Frederick drug company. Introduction to the Orient
        Dr. Sackler's art collecting began in the mid-1940's. Picking his way from field to field, he went from pre-Renaissance to post-Impressionism to the School of Paris, and also supported contemporary American painters.
        He made the acquaintance of Oriental art by happening on a small Chinese table at a cabinetmaker's. ''I came to realize that here was an esthetic not commonly appreciated or understood,'' he said.
        Later, advised in the Chinese paintings field by the chairman of the Metropolitan Museum's Far Eastern department, Wen Fong, and in other areas by trusted dealers, he wound up with what Mr. Fong has called ''by far the largest and most important collection of ancient Chinese art in the world.''
        His collection became a subject of controversy at the Metropolitan Museum, which had provided him in the 1960's with a small enclave that housed thousands of the Chinese works.
        Material from the enclave was to be used for an exhibition of masterpieces from the Sackler Chinese holdings, according to Dr. Sackler. But, though discussed by him and the Met for years, the show never took place. Metropolitan officials said they were waiting for assurance that the museum would eventually receive a substantial part of the enclave's contents as a gift. But their hopes were dashed when the Smithsonian Institution approached Dr. Sackler with a proposal for the new museum in Washington.
        Dr. Sackler is survived by his wife; his two brothers, both of New York; and four children: Dr. Carol Master of Boston; Elizabeth Sackler and Arthur F. Sackler, both of New York, and Denise Marica of Venice, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
        DR. ARTHUR SACKLER DIES AT 73
      