
       Lieut. Gen. William K. Harrison, who headed the United Nations armistice delegation in the Korean War, died Monday in Bryn Mawr Terrace, a nursing home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 91 years old and lived in Springfield, Pa.
        Lieut. Gen. William K. Harrison, who headed the United Nations armistice delegation in the Korean War, died Monday in Bryn Mawr Terrace, a nursing home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 91 years old and lived in Springfield, Pa.
        General Harrison, a direct descendant of President William Henry Harrison, graduated from West Point in 1917. His classmates included Gen. Mark Clark, who later appointed him to the armistice delegation.
        Commissioned in the cavalry, he taught at West Point in 1918 and was sent to France before the end of World War I. He was then stationed in the United States and the Philippines until 1932, when he became commander of the Army General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Seven years later he became chief of a section in the War Plans Division of the War Department.
        As assistant commander of the 30th Division in World War II, he won the admiration of his troops by accompanying them on the front lines, Tommy gun in hand. While in France, he was wounded. He received the Distinguished Service Cross and Medal Legion of Merit, the Silver Star, the Bronze Star with Cluster and the Purple Heart.
        In 1945 he was appointed commander of the 2d Infantry Division in Czechoslovakia. He was named head of Camp Carson, Colo., in 1946, but moved to Japan later that year and became chief of the reparations section under Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
        In 1950 he returned home as commander of the 9th Infantry Training Division at Fort Dix, N.J., a post he held until named deputy commander of the Eighth Army in Korea in December 1951. At that time General Clark also named him to the Korean assistance delegation for the United Nations 'An Old Cavalry Man'
        ''I know that Billy wanted a field command,'' General Clark said in 1978, recalling why he chose General Harrison for the armistice team. ''He's an old cavalry man, and the cavalry's always looking for a charge. But I knew we needed someone with the strength of character to look the Communists in the eye and say, 'Bull!' Not that Billy Harrison would ever say it quite that way, but the Reds would get his message.''
        From the start of his tenure as a negotiator in Korea, General Harrison had a style of talking bluntly or not at all. At one session in January 1952, he said only three words: ''No,'' when asked whether he had anything to say in behalf of the United Nations, and ''I agree,'' when the Communists suggested adjournment.
        He appeared in open-collar khaki shirts, refusing to wear a dress uniform to face opponents he regarded with contempt as ''common criminals.'' He walked out of the truce tent in June 1952, leaving Gen. Nam Il of North Korea flabbergasted.
        The general was a Baptist lay evangelist who often preached at Army religious serivces and an amateur historian whose specialty was the Civil War.
        He is survived by a daughter, Evelyn Kent of Springfield, Pa., and two sons, William K. Harrison 3d of Manhattan and W. Terry Harrison of Baton Rouge, La.; a stepson, Wayne King of Charlotte, N.C.; nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      