
       Charan Singh, a peasant organizer and leader of the independence movement who in 1979 became India's fifth Prime Minister, died today of complications from a stroke. He was 85 years old.
        Charan Singh, a peasant organizer and leader of the independence movement who in 1979 became India's fifth Prime Minister, died today of complications from a stroke. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Singh served as Prime Minister for less than a month before his coalition dissolved. With his death, another link was broken between the generation that campaigned for Indian independence and the current generation of politicians.
        Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, declaring that India had lost ''a respected and dedicated leader,'' noted that Mr. Singh had joined the independence movement as a follower of Mohandas K. Gandhi ''and adopted rural upliftment as his life's mission.''
        A political ally of Mr. Singh's, Sitaram Kesri, said, ''Another link with the great Gandhian past has been snapped by his death.''
        Another ally, H. N. Bahuguna, said Mr. Singh's death had removed ''a great champion of freedom struggle and the tallest living Gandhian.'' Mohandas Gandhi is no relation to the current Prime Minister. Wrote Books on Rural Issues
        Mr. Singh, president of the Lok Dal, or People's Party, was a popular politician and a shrewd tactician who also wrote books on the abolition of large feudal landholdings and the need for cooperative farming as a solution to India's rural poverty.
        Starting out as a member of the Indian National Congress, which led the independence movement, Mr. Singh was jailed several times in the years before independence in 1947. He then rose to power in his home state of Uttar Pradesh in northern India. He served as the state's Chief Minister but broke with the Congress Party when it split under Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1969.
        In 1977, Mr. Singh helped forge a new coalition challenging Mrs. Gandhi for re-election after the two-year state of emergency, in which she had suspended civil liberties and jailed thousands of political opponents. The coalition, known as the Janata, or People's Party, was swept into power in elections that year. Thus began the first and only period in which India was governed by an organization other than the Congress Party.
        The Janata Government was fractious from the outset, and Mr. Singh, leading the separate party known as Lok Dal, broke from Morarji R. Desai, who was Prime Minister, in 1978.
        He rejoined Mr. Desai as Deputy Prime Minister and then broke with him again in 1979, this time because of objections to the involvement in the coalition of a right-wing Hindu organization. Backed Briefly by Indira Gandhi
        The second time, Mrs. Gandhi's Congress forces were instrumental in bringing Mr. Singh to power as Prime Minister, supporting his Lok Dal with Congress votes. He was sworn in on July 28, 1979, only to have Mrs. Gandhi withdraw her support and precipitate elections on Aug. 20.
        President Sanjiva Reddy asked Mr. Singh to continue functioning as Prime Minister of a caretaker Government while the election campaign was under way. Mrs. Gandhi swept back into power, however, and the Lok Dal came in second.
        Since 1980, Mr. Singh continued to lead the Lok Dal and was a strong critic of Mrs. Gandhi and her son Rajiv, who took office in 1984 after his mother's assassination. But Mr. Singh had been ailing since his stroke in November 1985.
        The Government today declared four days of mourning and said Mr. Singh would be given a state funeral. He is survived by his wife, Gayatri Devi, a son and five daughters.
        CHARAN SINGH DIES AT AGE 85
      