
       Former Gov. Frank Licht, who pushed through a state income tax to end Rhode Island's fiscal crises of the 1960's, died today at Roger Williams Hospital. He was 71 years old and had suffered from cancer.
        Former Gov. Frank Licht, who pushed through a state income tax to end Rhode Island's fiscal crises of the 1960's, died today at Roger Williams Hospital. He was 71 years old and had suffered from cancer.
        Mr. Licht, a Democrat, served as a State Senator and judge before being elected Governor in 1968. He was re-elected in 1970 but chose to return to private life after his second term ended in 1973.
        Former colleagues praised Mr. Licht as a man of fierce integrity and political courage.
        Gov. Edward D. DiPrete, a Republican, called Mr. Licht a man of rare accomplishment who served the state with distinction, and Mr. Licht's nephew, Lieut. Gov. Richard A. Licht, said, ''He played an important role to me as a mentor, a person who set standards of ethics and conduct.''
        Before Mr. Licht became Governor, the state lurched from one fiscal crisis to the next in the 1960's as the cost of government rose and tax revenue fell with the decline of the state's industries, said Justice Donald F. Shea of the State Supreme Court, who was an executive assistant to the former Governor. 'At Great Personal Cost'
        Mr. Licht, going back on campaign promises of 1968 and 1970, proposed the income tax in his second term.
        ''At great personal cost politically, he reversed himself, and he did it without whimpering,'' Justice Shea said.
        A Providence native, Mr. Licht graduated from Brown University and Harvard Law School. He was a partner in the Providence law firm of Letts & Quinn from 1943 to 1956 and represented Providence in the State Senate from 1949 to 1956.
        He retired from the Senate to take a seat on the Superior Court in 1956, but left the bench in 1968 to fight an underdog campaign to oust Gov. John H. Chafee, now a Republican member of the United States Senate.
        Mr. Licht is survived by his father, Jacob Licht; his wife, Dorothy; three daughters and four grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be held at noon Monday at Temple Emanuel in Providence.
        FRANK LICHT, AN EX-GOVERNOR
      