
       Frank Carlson, a former Governor, Senator and United States Representative from Kansas, but above all a farmer, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Concordia, Kan. He was 94 years old.
        Frank Carlson, a former Governor, Senator and United States Representative from Kansas, but above all a farmer, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Concordia, Kan. He was 94 years old.
        Although Mr. Carlson had been hospitalized for the past year, he had been taken almost daily to visit the 500-acre family wheat and corn farm in Concordia.
        Mr. Carlson, a middle-of-the-road Republican and a close adviser to President Eisenhower, was regarded as a peacemaker. ''Another giant in Kansas politics is gone,'' Bob Dole of Kansas, the Senate Republican leader, said in a statement. ''Frank Carlson was a friend, an adviser and a role model.'' Career Spanned 40 Years
        Mr. Carlson's political career spanned 40 years and included two terms as Governor, six terms as a member of the House of Representatives, three terms in the Senate and two terms in the Kansas Legislature.
        Mr. Carlson, known chiefly for his sponsorship of farm laws, introduced legislation calling for a nationwide system of water control and reservoir projects.
        He was a crusader for simplifying Federal income tax laws and is known as one of the fathers of the income tax witholding system. He was also active as a member of the Hoover Commission on governmental reorganization.
        Mr. Carlson, a Baptist, took a deep interest in religious affairs. He served as international president of Christian Laymen in the late 1960's and before that as chairman of the International Council of Christian Leadership.
        The son of Swedish immigrants, Mr. Carlson spoke fluent Swedish and was nicknamed ''the Senator from Sweden'' by colleagues. His office on Capitol Hill was considered the headquarters for visiting Swedes.
        Mr. Carlson was born in Concordia Jan. 23, 1893. It was there that his parents, Charles and Anna Carlson, had to get off the train for lack of funds. With only 12 cents in his pocket, the father went to work as a farmhand and eventually, bought a farm of his own. Landon Campaign Aide in 1932
        Frank Carlson attended Concordia Normal and Business School and Kansas State College, majoring in agriculture. After serving in World War I, he returned to Concordia and took out a loan to buy his farm.
        His political career began in 1929 when he was elected to the Kansas State Legislature, and specialized in tax legislation. In 1932, he was named state Republican chairman and successfully managed Alf Landon's campaign for Governor. In 1936, he won the first of six terms in the House of Representatives, stepping down in 1946 to become Governor of Kansas.
        He was elected to the Senate in 1950 and retired in 1969, deciding not to seek a fourth term.
        He married the former Alice Frederickson in 1919. Mrs. Carlson died last year at the age of 91.
        Mr. Carlson is survived by a daughter, Eunice Marie Rolfs of Junction City, Kan., and a foster son, Millard E. Ross of Mulvane, Kan.
        FRAND CARLSON DIES AT 94
      