
       Sir Hugh Fraser, former chairman of the House of Fraser department store group, which includes Harrods, died of cancer today. He was 50 years old.
        Sir Hugh Fraser, former chairman of the House of Fraser department store group, which includes Harrods, died of cancer today. He was 50 years old.
        A statement issued by his family said he was actively involved in his various business activities until last week. He died at the home of his mother, Lady Fraser of Allander, near Glasgow.
        Sir Hugh became head of the House of Fraser, one of the largest department store chains in Britain, following the death of his father, Lord Fraser of Allander, in 1966.
        He disclaimed his father's peerage and expanded the chain during 16 years as its head, but was ousted as chairman during a stormy board meeting in 1981 after Roland (Tiny) Rowland, head of the British industrial conglomerate Lonrho, made a takeover bid valued at some $375 million. Opened His Own Businesses
        Lonrho had abandoned a 1980 bid to take over the House of Fraser at a time when Mr. Rowland and Sir Hugh had become enemies. But by the time of the 1981 bid, they appeared to have resolved their differences. In 1981, Sir Hugh wanted to sell the chain to Mr. Rowland's group, but the other directors did not. The takeover bid ultimately failed.
        After being ousted, Sir Hugh went into business on his own, building up a chain of menswear shops that he later sold. His other interests included a shirt factory in Belfast and a textile works in Aberdeen.
        A colorful entrepreneur and one-time gambler, Sir Hugh was accused in a stock exchange report in 1976 of ''inefficiency and ignorance of financial matters.'' The report strongly criti cized the way he had dealt in his own company stock to help pay off gambling debts.
        In 1962, before he married, he was described as Scotland's most eligible bachelor, but by the mid-1970's his friends described his as a handsome and immensely rich man who was lonely and sometimes friendless.
        His first marriage, to Patricia Bowie, ended in divorce in 1971.
        In 1973, he married Aileen Ross in the West Indies. They separated three years later and divorced in 1982. She died in an air crash in 1984.
        He is survived by three daughters from his first marriage.
        SIR HUGH FRASER, 50
      