
       Paul Butterfield, the harmonica player who led the Butterfield Blues Band, was found dead Monday at his apartment in Los Angeles. He was 44 years old.
        Paul Butterfield, the harmonica player who led the Butterfield Blues Band, was found dead Monday at his apartment in Los Angeles. He was 44 years old.
        An autopsy is to be performed today, according to the Los Angeles Coroner's Office.
        The Butterfield band helped bring Chicago blues to the rock audience in the 1960's, and spawned other leading blues and rock bands. It also became the first electric band to back Bob Dylan in concert.
        Paul Butterfield was born and raised in Chicago, and studied classical flute. He learned blues harmonica as a teen-ager, sitting in at clubs on the South Side of Chicago with such important blues musicians as Howlin' Wolf, Otis Rush, Magic Sam and the harmonica player Little Walter, Mr. Butterfield's main influence.
        With Elvin Bishop, a guitarist whom he met while attending the University of Chicago, Mr. Butterfield formed the first Butterfield Blues Band in the early 1960's. The group added elements of rock and soul music to Chicago blues. In 1965, the group performed with electric guitars at the Newport Folk Festival in Rhode Island, ending a longstanding rule against the use of amplified instruments; at that festival, the group also backed Bob Dylan. Performed With Muddy Waters
        The Butterfield Blues Band was a major concert draw in the 1960's; its 1966 album ''East-West'' looked toward Indian music, one of the first rock albums to do so. Mr. Butterfield also performed on Muddy Waters's 1969 album ''Fathers and Sons.'' As the Butterfield Blues Band's direction veered between soul, blues and rock, two of the group's guitarists, Michael Bloomfield and Elvin Bishop, left to form their own bands, Electric Flag and the Elvin Bishop Group.
        The Butterfield Blues Band dissolved in 1972, and Mr. Butterfield became part of a loose axis of musicians in the Woodstock, N.Y., area. He led the short-lived band Better Days in the early 1970's, and collaborated with the Band's drummer, Levon Helm (in Mr. Helm's R.C.O. All-Stars), and with its bassist, Rick Danko, in the Danko-Butterfield Band, which performed through the 1980's in New York City. He performed at the Band's farewell concert in 1976, which was filmed as ''The Last Waltz.'' In 1980, while recording the album ''North-South,'' Mr. Butterfield was hospitalized with a perforated intestine and peritonitis; after he recovered, he returned to performing.
        Mr. Butterfield is survived by two sons, Lee and Gabriel.
      