
       Theodore Shabad, who nurtured a childhood fascination for geography into parallel careers in academia and as a foreign correspondent and editor for The New York Times, died of a heart attack Monday night while riding home from The Times in a taxi. He was 65 years old.
        Theodore Shabad, who nurtured a childhood fascination for geography into parallel careers in academia and as a foreign correspondent and editor for The New York Times, died of a heart attack Monday night while riding home from The Times in a taxi. He was 65 years old.
        In recent years, while working as a copy editor on The Times's foreign desk, Mr. Shabad also was an adjunct professor of geography at Columbia University.
        The chairman of Columbia's geography department, Robert A. Lewis, said Mr. Shabad's ''encyclopedic knowledge of the Soviet Union was just unsurpassed.''
        ''This is a major loss to the study of Soviet geography in the U.S.,'' he said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Shabad, a founder and editor of the respected journal ''Soviet Geography: Review and Translation,'' was finishing a book on the chemical industry in the Soviet Union. In 1969, the Association of American Geographers cited him for meritorious contributions to the field. And that same year he was chosen as a member of the United States delegation to the International Geographical Congress. 'Just Loved to Teach'
        ''Mr. Shabad just loved to teach,'' Professor Lewis said. ''His students were grieving today, and remembering how they would go over to his apartment to consult with him. He was very much a gentleman.''
        The executive editor of The Times, Max Frankel, said: ''Ted Shabad was a distinguished scholar, an exacting correspondent, a diligent editor, a loyal colleague and a warm, lovely human being. We have been deprived in many ways.''
        Mr. Shabad's interest in geography stemmed from childhood, according to his son Peter. ''He used to talk about pulling a big atlas out, laying it on the floor, and, on his hands and knees, looking at it for hours,'' Peter Shabad said. ''This was when he was 6 years old.'' Theodore Shabad was born on April 4, 1922, in Berlin. In 1933, with his mother and stepfather, he moved to France to elude the Nazi danger. Five years later, he emigrated to the United States and, in 1940, he enrolled at the City College of New York, where he earned a bachelor's degree in geography.
        At the same time, in order to correspond with his natural father, then a soldier in the Soviet Army, Mr. Shabad taught himself Russian. Eventually, he mastered five languages. Helped Compile Atlas
        Mr. Shabad was hired by The Times as a copyboy in 1943. Soon after, he was transferred to a messenger's job in the Art Department. But within a year, he was promoted to a map maker's position in the department, specializing in maps of the Russian front. In 1946, he left the paper.
        For two years, Mr. Shabad worked on the compilation of an atlas for C. S. Hammond, the map-making company. And, from 1947 until 1951, he was an assistant editor of the Columbia Lippincott Gazetteer of the World. In 1953, he became a consultant on the Soviet Union to the Library of Congress.
        It was during this period that Mr. Shabad created his parallel careers. He had rejoined The Times as a copy editor in 1950 and held that post until 1960, when he was assigned to Paris as a correspondent for the paper's international edition.
        Interspersed with periods on the foreign desk in New York, Mr. Shabad eventually served four stints abroad for The Times: in Paris, until 1961; in Moscow, from 1961 until 1966, and twice more in Moscow between 1971 and 1973. A Doctorate From Columbia
        Mr. Shabad's dispatches detailed the intricacies of Soviet resources and development, from Siberian pipelines and railways to nuclear power and military preparedness.
        In 1975, he earned a master's degree from Columbia. A year later, based on the accumulation of his life's work, he was awarded a doctorate in geography.
        While colleagues knew Mr. Shabad as a man of Old World gentility, his family saw another side of him. ''He could, at times, be absolutely silly, very childlike,'' Peter Shabad said. ''He would get the greatest pleasure out of the smallest things. He got the most out of life.''
        Besides Peter, who lives in Chicago, Mr. Shabad is survived by his wife, Leslie; another son, Steven of Manhattan; an aunt, Rosa Baber of Tacoma, Wash., and a grandson. A memorial service is scheduled for 1:30 P.M. Friday at Riverside Memorial Chapel at Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street.
      