
       Howard Barnstone, a Houston architect whose teaching and buildings had an impact on this city's development, was found dead in his apartment here Wednesday in an apparent suicide. He was 64 years old.
        Howard Barnstone, a Houston architect whose teaching and buildings had an impact on this city's development, was found dead in his apartment here Wednesday in an apparent suicide. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Barnstone was perhaps best known nationally for the Rothko Chapel, the windowless, brick octagon he designed with Eugene Aubry to house a collection of 14 dark, powerful canvases by the late artist Mark Rothko. But among architects he was equally well known as the creator of numerous eclectic residences he built in Houston and around the country.
        He was the recipient of numerous architectural awards and was one of the few fellows of the American Institute of Architecture to be admitted in three disciplines: design, literature and teaching.
        He was eulogized today at the Rothko Chapel at a funeral service that drew about 300 mourners, including many of the most prominent members of the city's art and architecture community. ''Houston is more beautiful because of what he built and what he taught,'' Marguerite Barnes, a friend, said in a eulogy. Johnson and Mies Influences
        Mr. Barnstone was born in Auburn, Me., in 1923. He was educated at Yale, where he received both a bachelor's and master's degree. After service in the Army in World War II, he came to Houston in 1948 to teach at the University of Houston and began a career as an architect and author.
        Mr. Barnstone's early residences were thoroughly modern structures influenced by the work of Philip Johnson and Mies van der Rohe. As his career developed in the late 1950's and 1960's, he developed a less doctrinaire modern style that added a more complex design scheme to his earlier work.
        ''His buildings had a very special quality - you respond to them in a very intuitive way,'' said Stephen Fox, an architectural historian here. ''They had a wonderful kind of literally sensational quality. You felt an experience of well-being just walking through the spaces.'' Later Works More Diverse
        His later works were more diverse still, and included an interest in historic restoration and early-20th-century architecture. As a writer, Mr. Barnstone published ''The Galveston That Was,'' illustrated by Henri Cartier-Bresson, which helped spur the restoration of the Texas city with the oldest architectural heritage. He also wrote ''The Architecture of John F. Staub,'' on a prominent Houston architect of the 1920's and 1930's.
        Mr. Barnstone is survived by two daughters, Dora Barnstone Barber of Houston and Lily Barnstone Hale of Austin, and one son, George Arthur Levy Barnstone of Houston; a sister, Beatrice Kammerman of Sarasota, Fla.; three brothers, Willis, of Bloomington, Ind., Robert, of Austin, Tex., and Ronald, of Laredo, Tex.; his former wife, Gertrude, of Houston; and his stepmother, Marti Franco of Nuevo Laredo, Mex.
        HOWARD BARNSTONE, 64, DIES
      