
       James Thomas Kruger, a hard-line enforcer of apartheid who gained world notoriety for harshness as South Africa's Minister of Justice, died Friday at his home near Pretoria. He was 69 years old and had recently undergone heart surgery.
        James Thomas Kruger, a hard-line enforcer of apartheid who gained world notoriety for harshness as South Africa's Minister of Justice, died Friday at his home near Pretoria. He was 69 years old and had recently undergone heart surgery.
        Jimmie Kruger, as he was called, was in charge of quelling the 1976 riots in the black township of Soweto. What began as a black student protest against the teaching of Afrikaans in black schools flared into six months of violence, the worst South Africa had seen in 65 years.
        More than 600 people died as fighting spread from Soweto, and hundreds more were wounded or thrown into prison.
        Mr. Kruger was among the first to declare that the Government had an obligation to listen to black grievances and address the causes of ''black anger.'' Yet he was better known for his implacable pursuit of the opponents of racial segregation and his harsh utterances in that regard.
        He was widely quoted as saying that the possibility of a black uprising was ''laughable.'' He also said that the death in police custody in 1977 of Stephen Biko, a black opponent of the Pretoria regime, left him ''cold,'' and that blacks who died under detention were suicides.
        ''We are doing absolutely everything to try to prevent people committing suicide,'' he said in 1978. ''But you can understand that if a man wants to commit suicide it is very difficult to prevent it.''
        Mr. Biko, the 30-year-old founder of the Black Consciousness movement, which advocated self-reliance, died of head injuries and medical neglect while a prisoner of the security police. His death led to widespread charges of coverups by officials at various levels. Mr. Kruger was ultimately deemed responsible as Minister of Justice, Police and Prisons.
        While he held that post, starting in 1974, his ministry rigorously upheld the apartheid system, banning groups and banishing individuals, closing schools and staging mass arrests.
        The rioting of 1976 and the uproar surrounding the Biko case helped set the stage for the forced retirement of Prime Minister John Vorster in September 1978. The ruling Nationalist Party replaced him with P. W. Botha, who proceeded to rid his Cabinet of hard-liners and bring in members considered more moderate.
        Mr. Kruger was given the largely ceremonial post of President of the Senate in June 1979. He retired from that job and from politics the year after.
        Mr. Kruger is survived by his wife, Susanna, a novelist, and two sons.
      