
       Chinn Ho, a major figure in the rise of Asians to prominence in Hawaii, died of heart failure Tuesday night at Straub Hospital in Honolulu where he had been under kidney dialysis for two weeks. He was 83 years old.
        Chinn Ho, a major figure in the rise of Asians to prominence in Hawaii, died of heart failure Tuesday night at Straub Hospital in Honolulu where he had been under kidney dialysis for two weeks. He was 83 years old.
        His story was studded with symbols of the successful climb of immigrant peoples to success. His grandfather, who arrived in Honolulu from China in 1875, planted rice in the swamp then behind Waikiki Beach. In 1974, the investment company headed by Mr. Ho sold its Ilikai Hotel at Waikiki for $35 million, a profit of $11.4 million over 1959 development costs.
        When he was at McKinley High School in the early 1920's, a classmate was Hiram Fong, another Chinese-American who would become one of Hawaii's first United States senators when it became a state in 1959.
        After World War II, Mr. Ho became the patron of Daniel K. Inouye, a young Japanese-American soldier who lost an arm in military action in Italy. Senator Inouye, whose law office for years was next to Mr. Ho's office at the Capital Investment Company in downtown Honolulu, now presides over the Congressional Iran-contra investigation. Model for Novel Seen
        People in Hawaii believe Mr. Ho's life was the model for the character Hong Kong Kee created by James Michener in his novel ''Hawaii.'' Mr. Michener's character outsmarted the islands' white heirarchy.
        Almost half of Hawaii's 1 million people are descended from Chinese and Japanese who came to the islands as agricultural laborers on plantations owned by Caucasians who gained title to the land from the Polynesian monarchs that had ruled until the 1890's.
        In the 1950's Mr. Ho became a stockholder and board member of The Honolulu Advertiser, interests he relinquished in 1961 when he organized an investment group that bought The Honolulu Star-Bulletin from whites who had always owned it. In 1971 Mr. Ho's group, which had paid $11 million for The Star-Bulletin, sold out to the Gannett chain for $35 million, but Mr. Ho remained as chairman of the Gannett Pacific Corporation.
        As a young man, he moved from door-to-door sales to a bank clerk position, and then to a brokerage office job. In time, he was the first Asian president of the Honolulu Stock Exchange and the first Asian to manage one of the Hawaiian land-based trusts.
        Mr. Ho leaves his wife, Betty, three sons, three daughters and 16 grandchildren. A brother and three sisters also survive.
      