
       Richard Ellmann, whose 1959 biography of James Joyce became the definitive work on the Irish novelist, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 69 years old.
        Richard Ellmann, whose 1959 biography of James Joyce became the definitive work on the Irish novelist, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Ellmann, who was Goldsmiths' Professor emeritus of English Literature at Oxford University, was admitted to an Oxford infirmary Tuesday, suffering from pneumonia. He was stricken in February 1986 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, a degenerative disease of the nerve cells for which there is no known treatment.
        Despite the debilitating ailment, which had severely affected his speech, he continued to work. During the last weeks of his life, with the help of small machines on which he typed out messages that were then printed on a screen or on paper, he made final revisions on his long-awaited biography of Oscar Wilde. It is scheduled to be published in the United States in January by Alfred A. Knopf.
        Mr. Ellmann was born in Highland Park, Mich. He studied at Yale University and served in the O.S.S. in World War II. After the war, he did graduate work at Trinity College in Dublin, becoming engaged in what would be a lifelong love affair with Irish literary figures of the 19th and 20th centuries. Mrs. Yeats Was Inspiration
        His first two books dealt with William Butler Yeats. He traced the origins of ''James Joyce,'' his 1959 biography that is considered the definitive work on the Irish novelist, to a 1947 meeting in Dublin with Yeats's widow, who showed him an unpublished memoir by the poet in which he recalled his first meeting with the younger writer.
        In a front-page review in The New York Times Book Review, Stephen Spender called ''James Joyce'' an ''immensely detailed, massive, detached and objective, yet loving biography.'' The work, which won the National Book Award, stands as the authoritative study of the man whom Mr. Ellmann called ''the first writer to show us in English what modern literature really is.'' Other critics were influenced by his assessment of Leopold Bloom, the central figure of Joyce's controversial masterpiece, ''Ulysses.'' Mr. Ellmann found nobility in this ''nobody - an advertising canvasser who, apart from his family, has virtually no effect upon the life around him.'' He wrote: ''The divine part of Bloom is simply his humanity - his assumption of a bond between himself and other created beings.''
        Mr. Ellmann's scholarly pursuit of Joyce did not end with the publication of the biography. In addition to serving as editor of Joyce's letters, he kept tracking down new sources and following up on new leads, and in 1982, in time for the Joyce centenary, a revised edition of ''James Joyce'' containing 100 pages of additional material was published to renewed acclaim. A former colleague calls Mr. Ellmann ''a private detective of genius.'' The fascination with Joyce remained strong. ''I have been moved and amused,'' he wrote ''by fresh instances of Joyce's originality and bizarreness.''
        Visitors to the small old house in Oxford that the Ellmanns moved into in 1970, when he took up his post at New College, might be taken upstairs to the cluttered workroom, where, with evident pleasure and quiet pride, Mr. Ellmann would extract from one of the cardboard boxes on the floor a piece of Joyceana, a scribbled note, perhaps, or a library card from the writer's youth. Wit Remained Intact
        Mr. Ellmann had a notable sense of humor and a donnishly droll way with a punchline; he took a puckish delight in gossiping about the pecadillos of literary personages. His high forehead, heavy-rimmed eyeglasses and soft-spoken manner suited his own scholarly persona. His wit remained intact throughout his illness; with speech difficult, he typed out jokes and repartee with visitors.
        In the course of a distinguished academic career, Mr. Ellmann taught at Harvard, Yale, Northwestern, Emory, the University of Chicago and Indiana University and lectured widely until his illness made public speaking impossible. Next fall, Emory will begin a lecture series named in his honor. He contributed frequently to such publications as The New York Times, The New York Review of Books and England's Times Literary Supplement.
        In addition to his many critical essays on such writers as Samuel Beckett, T. S. Eliot, W. H. Auden and Ezra Pound, Mr. Ellmann edited ''The New Oxford Book of American Verse'' and was co-editor, with Robert O'Clair, of two anthologies of modern poetry. Mr. O'Clair, who worked closely with him on the anthologies for almost a decade, remains awed by ''Dick's taste, his knowledge, his love of the word.'' In 1971, Mr. Ellmann was elected to the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Mr. Ellmann is survived by his wife, Mary, whom he met when they were teaching in the Boston area some 40 years ago. Her book, ''Thinking About Women,'' published in 1968, anticipated feminist literary studies. Two of their three children, Maude Esther and Lucy Elizabeth, live in England, while Stephen Jonathan lives in New York, where he teaches at the Columbia Law School. There are two grandchildren, Brian and Emily.
        RICHARD ELLMANN DIES AT 69
      