
       Lawrence Morton, a longtime champion of contemporary music in the Los Angeles area and former director of the Monday Evening Concerts and the Ojai Festival there, died, apparently of a heart attack, May 8 at the home of his brother Arthur in Santa Monica. He was 82 years old.
        Lawrence Morton, a longtime champion of contemporary music in the Los Angeles area and former director of the Monday Evening Concerts and the Ojai Festival there, died, apparently of a heart attack, May 8 at the home of his brother Arthur in Santa Monica. He was 82 years old.
        A friend and partisan of Igor Stravinsky, Mr. Morton advanced the cause of all forms of modern music, but especially the rigorous and rationalist sort derived from the European immigrants who clustered in Southern California from the 1930's to the 1950's.
        Born in Duluth on July 13, 1904, Mr. Morton graduated from the University of Minnesota and worked as a film theater organist in Chicago and at the Loew's Lexington Theater in New York. Wrote Musical Criticism
        In 1937 he moved to Los Angeles, where he was an arranger and composer for film studios and also contributed critical articles to such publications as the Musical Quarterly and Modern Music.
        He became the director of the Evenings on the Roof concert series in Los Angeles in 1954, renaming it the Monday Evening Concerts and overseeing a policy in which modern music, with many premieres, was paired with early music.
        During the 17 years he led the series, the Monday Evening Concerts became known as one of the foremost platforms for new music in the United States. In 1957, Mr. Morton introduced Pierre Boulez to America with the first performance in this country of ''Le Marteau Sans Maitre.'' Other close associates included the composers Aaron Copland and Ingolf Dahl and the conductor Michael Tilson Thomas. Guided Ojai Festival
        Throughout this period, Mr. Morton also intermittently led the Ojai Festival, a late-spring festival north of Los Angeles. Mr. Boulez was artistic director of the festival for a while, as was Mr. Thomas.
        Mr. Morton became music curator of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 1965, but devoted much of his time to writing, in particular to an extended, uncompleted study of the music of Stravinsky.
        In addition to his brother Arthur, Mr. Morton is survived by his brother Herbert, of Bethesda, Md.
        LAWRENCE MORTON DIES AT 82
      