
       John I. H. Baur, a scholar, writer and curator in the field of American art, and director of the Whitney Museum from 1968 to 1974, died yesterday of heart failure at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y.
        John I. H. Baur, a scholar, writer and curator in the field of American art, and director of the Whitney Museum from 1968 to 1974, died yesterday of heart failure at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y.
        Mr. Baur's most recent project was a show of American 19th- and 20th-century paintings that will open in Moscow in September. The show, organized by him for the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Services, is a result of the 1985 cultural agreement between President Reagan and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader. At his death, Mr. Baur was also consulting director for the Terra Museum of American Art in Chicago.
        A quiet, reserved man who avoided the limelight, Mr. Baur spent his entire curatorial career at two institutions, the Brooklyn Museum and the Whitney. As associate director of the Whitney, from 1958 to 1968, he worked closely with the building committee and the architect, Marcel Breuer, to realize the museum's new building on Madison Avenue and 75th Street. He was instrumental in developing many of the Whitney's programs in the 1960's, among them its education program and its film and video program. As director, he also established the museum's first branch, an educational resource on Water Street, in 1973.
        Mr. Baur also organized and wrote monographs for shows on Eastman Johnson, Theodore Robinson, Joseph Stella, George Grosz, Charles Burchfield and Bradley Walker Tomlin, among others. He produced several books, including ''Revolution and Tradition in American Art,'' 1951, ''American Painting in the 19th Century,'' 1953, ''Nature in Abstraction,'' 1958, and ''American Art of Our Century,'' 1961, written with the late Lloyd Goodrich, whom he succeeded as the Whitney's director.
        Yesterday, Flora Whitney Biddle, chairman of the museum, said of Mr. Baur: ''He was a man of tremendous integrity and loyalty to the Whitney, and wonderful to work with. His great seriousness of purpose was accompanied by a delightful sense of humor. He was a very whole human being, and had a rich life.''
        John Ireland Howe Baur was born in Woodbridge, Conn., on Aug. 9, 1909. He liked to say that his career in art was partly brought about by the Depression, which he faced on his graduation from Yale in 1932. Unable to find a job teaching English, he was lured back to Yale by the offer of a scholarship for a master's degree in art history. After earning that degree in 1934, he obtained his first job, as supervisor of education at the Brooklyn Museum. In 1936, he became curator of painting and sculpture there.
        His specialty in American art was also determined by economics. ''The Brooklyn Museum had no money for European Renaissance paintings,'' he once explained. ''But American paintings were extremely cheap and we bought 18th- and 19th-century works for several thousands that are now worth hundreds of thousands.''
        In 1952, Mr. Baur joined the staff of the Whitney as a curator, a post he held until his appointment as associate director in 1958.
        Mr. Baur is survived by his wife, the former Louise Weld Chase, and their three children, Arthur Baur of Brooklyn, Jean Baur of New York City and Susan Baur of Falmouth, Mass. A memorial service will be held at the Whitney Museum at a later date.
        JOHN I. H. BAUR, ART SCHOLAR
      