
       The Rev. J. Joseph Lynch, a Jesuit priest and longtime scholar of seismology, died of heart failure Thursday at the Murray-Weigel Infirmary at Fordham University. He was 92 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        The Rev. J. Joseph Lynch, a Jesuit priest and longtime scholar of seismology, died of heart failure Thursday at the Murray-Weigel Infirmary at Fordham University. He was 92 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        For more than three decades, Father Lynch was regularly called on by scholars, the press and the public for information about earthquakes.
        Father Lynch approached his work with energy and humor. He once likened the earth to a ''bowl of Jell-O'' and said that New York City was just ''writing her autograph'' each day when at rush hour the Fordham University seismograph needles gyrated erratically.
        Father Lynch's life roughly paralleled the development of organized seismic research. In the early days of his career, it often took days to learn the approximate center of seismic activity. By the early 1960's, data could be fed into a computer and the epicenter located within seconds.
        Father Lynch was born in London. He joined the Society of Jesus in 1926 and was sent to study the physical sciences in the Netherlands and at Oxford. In 1920 he came to Fordham, where he worked at the the university's seismic observatory. He served as a professor of seismology and mathematics from 1950 until 1967. Father Lynch directed the observatory from 1962 until a heart condition forced his retirement four years ago.
        Father Lynch's work took him around the world and earned him many honors. In 1946, he designed an observatory for the Dominican Republic to give warning of earthquakes and, in 1951, he conducted seismic tests in Rome to help the Vatican search for the tomb of St. Peter. He was a fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Geographical Society. In the 1960's he also served as president of the New York Academy of Sciences.
        Services will be at 8 P.M. tomorrow at University Church on the Fordham campus.
        THE REV. J. JOSEPH LYNCH, 92
      