
       Ralph Waldo Taylor, the last of the American soldiers who charged up San Juan Hill in the Spanish-American War, died Friday at North Broward Medical Center in Florida, where he was being treated for kidney failure. Mr. Taylor, of Pompano Beach, was 105 years old.
        Ralph Waldo Taylor, the last of the American soldiers who charged up San Juan Hill in the Spanish-American War, died Friday at North Broward Medical Center in Florida, where he was being treated for kidney failure. Mr. Taylor, of Pompano Beach, was 105 years old.
        Mr. Taylor, the former president of two Long Island banks, retired to Florida at the age of 80. He remained alert and in robust health into his final years, although cataracts interfered with his golf and card games.
        Mr. Taylor, born in Brooklyn and reared in Manhattan, was the son of an inventor distantly related to President Zachary Taylor. When war broke out with Spain in 1898, he talked his father, Theodore, into letting him join the 71st Volunteer Infantry Regiment of the New York National Guard.
        He was 16 years old when his K Company shipped out to follow Theodore Roosevelt's Rough Riders up San Juan Hill against entrenched Spanish positions in Cuba. Of the 27,000 men who took part in the Cuban campaign, Mr. Taylor was the last survivor. Single-Shot Springfield Rifles
        Robert Hawk, a civilian historian with the Florida National Guard, said last night that no more than four survivors of other campaigns of the Spanish-American War in Puerto Rico, China and the Philippines were still alive.
        In an interview before his 104th birthday, Mr. Taylor recalled winter uniforms in Florida and training with single-shot Springfield rifles of Civil War vintage. On San Juan Hill, the soldiers' black-powder cartridges became targets for Spanish sharpshooters.
        Mr. Taylor came down with malaria and dysentery, the deadliest enemies of the men of K Company, but fortified with rum, he managed to stand muster after the battle and board the boat back to New York in time for a banquet organized by mothers of 71st Regiment guardsmen.
        Mr. Taylor then resumed his education and embarked on a successful career in banking, rising to presidency of both the now-defunct Nassau County National Bank in Rockville Centre and The Freeport Bank.
        Mr. Taylor was married three times, each time for at least a quarter of a century. He outlived his first two wives and is survived by his third wife of 34 years, Bessie Taylor Bell, a former Army nurse. Other survivors include a daughter, Helen Lindley of Manasquan, N.J.; a son, Ralph M. Taylor of Cocoa Beach, Fla.; seven grandchildren, six great-grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren.
        A masonic funeral service will be held at 10 A.M. tomorrow at Forest Lawn North, Pompano Beach, followed by military burial provided by the Florida National Guard.
        RALPH W. TAYLOR, 105
      