
       Gunnar Myrdal, the Swedish economist and sociologist whose 1944 book, ''An American Dilemma,'' helped to destroy the ''separate but equal'' racial policy in the United States, died yesterday in a hospital in Sweden. He was 88 years old.
        Gunnar Myrdal, the Swedish economist and sociologist whose 1944 book, ''An American Dilemma,'' helped to destroy the ''separate but equal'' racial policy in the United States, died yesterday in a hospital in Sweden. He was 88 years old.
        Reports from the Swedish capital said he had been hospitalized for more than two months. At his bedside were his daughter Kaj Folster and a grandson, Janken Myrdal, who said Mr. Myrdal had ''died naturally of old age.''
        Mr. Myrdal, the 1974 Nobelist in economics, was the widower of Alva Myrdal, co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1982 for her efforts to promote world disarmament. She died in 1986. A Footnote to History
        Mr. Myrdal has been called the leading economist and social scientist of his epoch. Statesman, reformer, dissenter, pacifist and foe of inequality, an architect of the Swedish welfare state, he literally left his mark in a footnote to history - the famous footnote 11 to the United States Supreme Court's 1954 ruling that segregation in public schools was unconstitutional. Listing sources to prove that schools could not be ''separate but equal'' because separation implied and enforced inferiority, the Court said, ''See generally Myrdal, An American Dilemma 5/81944).''
        The work appeared in two massive volumes in 1944, in an edition of only 2,500 copies; there have been about 30 editions since, but all have been small, with sales totaling 100,000. Nonetheless, the work has often been compared with Toqueville in its importance as a study of the United States.
        ''An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy'' was, Mr. Myrdal once said, ''not a study of the Negroes but of the American society from the viewpoint of the most disadvantaged group.'' The predicament, he wrote, was the conflict between the ideals that white Americans proclaimed and their betrayal in daily life. He held that this was particularly true in the South, where, he argued, discrimination was due less to bias than to a failure of the courts and the police to enforce the Constitution.
        Though segregationists protested that the Court had fallen under the influence of a radical foreigner, the Myrdal study was highly optimistic about America's ability to solve its racial problem - over-optimistic, as Mr. Myrdal would acknowledge. The study was infused with admiration for this country, which he called his second home. He had no doubt that the conflict between American idealism and the reality of racism would be resolved in a reasonable time. ''No social utopia can compete with the promise of the American Constitution and with the American creed which it embodies,'' he wrote.
        Above his desk in Stockholm hung two framed documents, the Declaration of Independence and a citation from Lincoln: ''To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men.''
        Explaining his views, an American friend, the economist Paul A. Samuelson, said, ''He's always lecturing us like a Dutch uncle because he loves us.'' Mr. Myrdal, talking with a reporter in 1972 about his long campaign against the Vietnam War, remarked, ''I don't say it's a pleasure, but for my conscience I could not say no.''
        ''I've always been optimistic about America,'' he continued. ''Why? Why do I sit here when I could spend my time with wine and girls? Because ideals mean something. They mean something special in America.'' Left Deep Mark on Homeland
        He also left his mark on Sweden, where he helped draft many social and economic programs, and to a smaller extent on South Asia, where he vigorously preached land reform. Furthermore, as a United Nations official he promoted East-West detente before it became fashionable, and as an economist he criticized orthodox patterns of thinking and pioneered new ones.
        Born on Dec. 6, 1898, in the rural parish of Gustafs, in central Sweden, the son of Karl Adolf Myrdal, a railroad employee, he was christened Karl Gunnar but eventually dropped the first name. He studied law and then economics at Stockholm University, so impressing his teachers that on graduation he was named to the faculty.
        He was also a brash young man, as later he was called a brash old man. The story was told that Gustav Cassell, the great Swedish economist, warned him, ''Gunnar, you should be more respectful to your elders, because it is we who will determine your promotion.'' ''Yes,'' the young man is said to have replied, ''but it is we who will write your obituaries.''
        In 1924 Mr. Myrdal married a fellow student, Alva Reimer, who became a leading feminist, pacifist and diplomat. They had three children: Jan, a writer and anthropologist; Sissela Ann Bok, an author and authority on ethics who is the wife of Derek C. Bok, president of Harvard University, and Kaj Folster, who is a sociologist, as her mother was.
        Friends remark that the career of Mrs. Myrdal was wrongly overshadowed by that of her husband. Eleanor Roosevelt, meeting Sissela, said, ''You're the daughter of Gunnar Myrdal, aren't you?'' ''Yes,'' she replied, ''and of Alva, too.'' An Advocate of Feminism
        Mr. Myrdal shared his wife's feminism. She accompanied him on a Rockefeller Foundation fellowship to the United States in 1929-30. Long afterward, he recounted, he told another grantee that he had persuaded the foundation to pay for wives, too, and the young man grumbled: ''So it was you. I'd been looking forward to that holiday for years.''
        A classicist, Mr. Myrdal held that ideals, cultural attitudes and social structures were primordial in shaping economic ideas. But he was at first fascinated by the abstract mathematical models coming into fashion in the 1920's and helped found the Econometric Society, based in London.
        Later, however, he accused the movement of ignoring the problem of distribution of wealth in its obsession with economic growth, of using faulty statistics and substituting Greek letters for missing data in its formulas and of flouting logic. ''Correlations are not explanations,'' he wrote, ''and besides, they can be as spurious as the high correlation in Finland between foxes killed and divorces.''
        Similarly, Mr. Myrdal was early in supporting the theses of John Maynard Keynes, maintaining that the basic idea of adjusting national budgets to slow or speed an economy was first developed in Sweden. But when the doctrine became orthodox he was well ahead of such other liberal Keynesians as John Kenneth Galbraith in abandoning it, on the ground that it ignored social justice and was used primarily to support inflationary policy; the brakes were seldom applied, and then they hurt the weak.
        ''I am often considered almost not a part of the profession of Establishment economists,'' he observed in an essay. ''I am even referred to as a sociologist. And by that economists usually do not mean anything flattering. Another, in some respects like-minded, rebel, Galbraith, who in addition writes a beautiful and forcible English, is often handled even more rudely by being classified by his colleagues as a journalist.'' Defenders of Status Quo Derided
        As early as 1929 Mr. Myrdal unsettled the dovecotes of the profession with a book, ''The Political Element in the Development of Economic Theory,'' that charged that orthodox economists distorted theory and logic to defend the status quo. Two years later his ''Monetary Economics'' called for government spending to combat the Depression.
        He held later that such policies arrived in Sweden more by circumstance than intent. But with the accession of Swedish Socialism to power, he and his wife helped shape the welfare state. Their 1934 book, ''Crisis in the Population Question,'' diagnosed the declining birth rate in Sweden and prescribed family planning, sex education, public housing and child care.
        As one result their name became a household word: a Myrdal house is designed for large families; a Myrdal bicycle has two or three seats; a Myrdal sofa is a very long one; a Myrdale is a community of unwed couples; ''to Myrdal'' even became ironic slang for the act of procreation.
        Mr. Myrdal occupied posts involving housing, population and banking, and served in the Senate from 1936 to 1938 and again after World War II. The Swedish economy recovered more quickly from the Depression than most others, and aided by the country's neutrality during the war, it grew to be the most prosperous, per capita, in the world, witnessing the virtual elimination of poverty and slums. Swedish Experience Defended
        This was often cited by Mr. Myrdal as disproving the common argument of economists that social change that raised wages and reduced the profits needed for investment would slow industrial growth. In later years he was scornful of suggestions that affluence and security had made Swedes neurotic and even suicidal (it was widely but erroneously believed that Sweden had the highest suicide rate in the world). ''This is a fantastic lie,'' he said in a 1976 interview. ''Why in hell should the protection of your life from economic disasters and from bad health, the opening of education for your people, pensions for old people, nursery care for children - why should that make you frustrated?''
        With the changes in Sweden well under way by 1938, Mr. Myrdal accepted an invitation from the Carnegie Corporation to direct a two-year, $250,000 study of Negroes in the United States. He liked to tell friends that he had been chosen because he ''could play the innocent, dumb Swede.''
        This was never the view of the 48 writer-scholars he recruited, including such luminaries as Ralph J. Bunche and Kenneth B. Clark. ''He drove himself,'' Dr. Clark once recalled. ''He was enthusiastic, opinionated but stimulatingly so, constantly searching for answers and usually the first to find them. He was the optimist and I was the pessimist. Now we've shifted almost 100 percent.'' From Hope to Disillusionment
        Mr. Myrdal predicted that American idealism and the Constitution would gradually assert themselves and discrimination would fade out in a generation. Gradually he became disillusioned.
        In recent years he freely confessed to errors in ''American Dilemma'': It had underestimated the degree of bias in the North; it had predicted that unions would support Negro rights; it had failed to forecast the civil-rights upheaval in the South. He said he could not have foreseen the way technology would drive blacks from the farms and squeeze them out of factories, nor that the country would have permitted its cities to decay while whites fled to the suburbs.
        ''Any scholar expects to have errors,'' Professor Samuelson observed. ''The point is to have interesting errors. I think that in 'American Dilemma' he did.''
        When riots flared in the ghettos in the early 1960's, Mr. Myrdal was still hopeful. He said the fact that blacks were fighting for their rights reflected their progress in jobs and education. But he warned that no solution would be achieved unless the country eliminated slums and poverty for all, poor whites included. He came to doubt that it would do so.
        As the study was completed in 1940, the Nazis were overrunning Denmark and Norway. Mr. Myrdal returned to Sweden, where he helped shape an economic policy intended to finance an arms buildup in defense of neutrality. But he made no bones about where his sympathies lay. He publicly vowed that Sweden would not yield to the Nazi armies; with his wife he wrote a best seller, ''Contact With America,'' in praise of its democratic institutions, and he spent part of the war years in this country as an economic adviser to the Swedish Embassy. Error in Postwar Program
        Toward the end of the war Mr. Myrdal occupied himself with postwar planning. Like most economists he expected peace to bring on a depression. That view led to policy errors for which, according to colleagues, he received an unfair share of blame because his brash ways made him an inevitable target.
        One measure was a trade-and-credit agreement with the Soviet Union, which Mr. Myrdal negotiated after his appointment as Minister of Commerce in 1945. In the event, money became tight, markets were not lacking and the deal was officially protested by the United States.
        Though Mr. Myrdal was criticized by the Communists as a bourgeois reformist, he steadfastly favored exchanges with the East, and he spent the decade 1947-57 promoting them as Secretary General of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. In Geneva, Mr. Myrdal assembled what was regarded as a brilliant and pragmatic staff, but the realities of the cold war and Western embargoes limited its effectiveness. They also help explain why he was passed over as a successor to Secretary General Trygve Lie at the United Nations.
        Toward the end of the tour in Geneva Mr. Myrdal became obsessed with the problem of poverty in the third world. He wrote a preliminary thesis, ''Rich Lands and Poor: the Road to World Prosperity'' (1958), in which he stressed his concept of ''circular causality'' - that backwardness in education and social structure worsens poverty, and vice versa. Vast Study of Asian Poverty
        At the same time he went to India, where his wife had preceded him to become Swedish Ambassador, and began a 10-year study financed by the 20th Century Fund. It culminated in the three-volume ''Asian Drama: An Inquiry Into the Poverty of Nations'' (1968). Here he was more pessimistic than in ''American Dilemma.'' Exploring the societies of South Asia, he argued incessantly that land reform and a narrowing of social inequalities were prerequesites for eradicating poverty.
        ''Asian Drama'' also repeated Mr. Myrdal's warning that the United States was heading for a fall in Vietnam. It predicted that pacification and American-imposed land reform would fail, held that the United States had become a hostage of its client in Saigon and urged that it open negotiations with the Communists.
        Returning to Sweden, Mr. Myrdal became a co-chairman of the International Commission of Inquiry Into U.S. War Crimes in Indochina and head of the Swedish Vietnam Committee, which helped inspire hospitality for American draft evaders and deserters. He also presided over the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, a Government-financed agency that has been an important source of information on the arms trade.
        He commuted to the United States, where he spoke at conferences and Congressional hearings and taught at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., and at the City University of New York. Everywhere, he preached peace, reform and racial justice. 'Defensive Self-Censorship'
        Commenting on the fact that his war-crimes hearings had been ignored in this country, he said: ''That is a defensive self-censorship. You are defending yourselves against knowing too well what the world thinks of you.'' Appealing before a Senate hearing for Government planning and spending to fight poverty, he said: ''A strong America is a wise America. You are not very good losers. Every time you are losing, an element of insanity enters your thinking that is very dangerous. What you really need is not more private consumption but help for the poor.''
        Before a House subcommittee in 1969 he declared that the new Federal poverty programs were ''spurious, badly administered and underconceived.'' He called instead for a ''Marshall Plan'' to help the cities and the poor, at a cost of a trillion dollars over a generation. ''I don't think America can stand a de facto apartheid too much longer,'' he warned. ''It is against the vision of America.''
        In 1974 the Swedish Academy of Sciences rendered a verdict of Solomon by splitting the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science, awarding half to Mr. Myrdal, the radical reformer, and half to Friedrich A. von Hayek, the conservative Austrian economist. Both recipients are said to have been annoyed by the pairing.
        Two years later Mr. Myrdal said he had been caught off guard by the prize and should have refused it. He called for its abolition on the ground that economics was a ''soft'' science, loaded with value judgments.
        For nearly 40 years, Mr. Myrdal argued his thesis that economists reflect their own social biases and tended to err by reducing economics to abstract numbers. ''In reality, there are no 'economic' problems,'' he wrote. Above all in the area of race and poverty issues, he accused his colleagues of underestimating moral forces.
        ''The Negro problem, like all other political problems, is fundamentally a moral issue,'' he said. ''This is realism, not idealism. Those of my colleagues who believe that they are particularly 'hard boiled' because they overlook the fact that human beings are struggling for their consciences are simply unrealistic.''
        Interviewed in New York on news of the Nobel award, he was gloomy about the Ford Administration's program on inflation and the energy crisis. ''The trend at present is leading to hell,'' he said. ''America is the one rich country with the biggest slums, the least democratic and least developed health system and the most niggardly attitude against its old people.''
        He was more hopeful about the race question once again. ''Jim Crow has broken down,'' he said. ''Very definitely there has been great progress. When you look at all the other horrors in the world, race is going in the right direction.''
        At this time he revived a project he had often spoken of, a study that would bring ''American Dilemma'' up to date, but it was stillborn. Mr. Myrdal had survived a serious auto accident in 1952, which caused him to use a cane occasionally, then had gone on to fulfill several careers for two decades. At 73, chain-smoking, he was still boasting to friends that he had survived a heart attack that would kill most, but at 77 he finally found himself too fatigued for a major undertaking. He eased into a spell of light teaching, writing and speaking, in Sweden and this, his second country.
        Mr. Myrdal is survived by his son, Jan, of Mariefred, Sweden; his daughters, Mrs. Folster of Gottingen, West Germany, and Dr. Bok of Cambridge, Mass.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete last night.
      