
       Dudley C. Sharp, Secretary of the Air Force under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died of cancer Sunday at M. D. Anderson Hospital in Houston. He was 82 years old and lived in Houston.
        Dudley C. Sharp, Secretary of the Air Force under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died of cancer Sunday at M. D. Anderson Hospital in Houston. He was 82 years old and lived in Houston.
        Mr. Sharp went to Washington in 1955 as an assistant Air Force Secretary. The Texas industrialist was loath to leave his business, but said at the time that he could not refuse to serve as long as he insisted upon his right to criticize Government officials.
        He suggested a plan that would have had business leaders taking turns in Government assignments so that no one of them would have to make too great a sacrifice in leaving his own business.
        Mr. Sharp stayed in the job three and a half years, resigning in 1959 when labor troubles erupted in Houston at his concern, the Mission Manufacturing Company, which made equipment for the petroleum industry. When he left Washington, Mr. Sharp told his associates not to hestitate to call him back if they needed him.
        In August of 1959, Mr. Sharp returned to the Pentagon to succeed Malcolm A. McIntyre, who was retiring as Under Secretary of the Air Force. In December, when the Secretary of the Air Force, James H. Douglas, rose to Deputy Defense Secretary, Mr. Sharp assumed the top Air Force post.
        At the Pentagon Mr. Sharp was known for his work in developing efficient procurement and supply techniques and, in the running defense debate, he supported President Eisenhower against those people who wanted to increase Government spending on missles and bombers.
        In his tenure an Air Force training manual that was said to have linked churches with Communism and other manuals that were said to have provided instruction in dog washing, threatened to enmesh Mr. Sharp in protest and ridicule. He extricated himself by appearing before two Congressional committees and by promising to review all manuals and to withdraw those that were found to be inappropriate.
        Mr. Sharp served as Secretary until 1960 when he returned to Houston to manage Mission Manufacturing Company until it was sold to T. R. W. Inc. in 1976. He retired at that time to devote himself to civic activities.
        He was a director of the Lighthouse for the Blind, chairman of the local Republican Party, a board member of the Museum of Natural History and of the M. B. Anderson Hospital. He was also president of the Houston Chamber of Commerce and he helped raise money for the Alley Theater, a professional repertory group in Houston.
        Dudley Crawford Sharp was born in Houston, the son of a pioneer oil man who was the financial backer of Howard Hughes Sr., father of the multimillionaire aircraft manufacturer. Mr. Sharp graduated from Princeton University in 1927. He then became vice president of the Mission Manufacturing Company, which was founded by his oldest brother.
        In World War II he served as a lieutenant in the Navy.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Tina Cleveland; a son, Dudley C. Sharp Jr., of Houston; a daughter, Julia May Vergera, of Madrid; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      