
       Frederick A. Pottle, Sterling Professor Emeritus of English at Yale University and for more than half a century the principal intellectual force behind an ongoing study of the life and work of the 18th-century biographer James Boswell, died Saturday at the New Haven Convalescent Home, after a long illness.
        Frederick A. Pottle, Sterling Professor Emeritus of English at Yale University and for more than half a century the principal intellectual force behind an ongoing study of the life and work of the 18th-century biographer James Boswell, died Saturday at the New Haven Convalescent Home, after a long illness. Mr. Pottle, who lived in New Haven, was 89 years old.
        Mr. Pottle joined the faculty at Yale upon completion of his doctoral studies there in 1925. He then devoted nearly all of his scholarly energies to ''The Boswell Factory,'' the name given on campus to the work that began in 1949 when Yale purchased Boswell's papers, and which continues to this day. Under Mr. Mr. Pottle's editorship, the ''Yale Boswell Papers'' produced 13 volumes of Boswell's journals, 4 annotated volumes (the last of which will soon be published) and plans for 30 to 35 volumes for future publication. The first and most popular of the volumes, ''Boswell's London Journal,'' was published by McGraw-Hill in 1950 and sold more than 1 million copies.
        In an article in The New York Times of Aug. 23, 1925, Mr. Pottle described his fascination with the great biographer of Samuel Johnson: ''Strange are the workings of the Goddess of Earthly Fame,'' he wrote, ''and in dealing with no one have her ways been more inscrutable than in the case of James Boswell, Esq. He wrote what has always been considered the greatest biography of all time, and yet for the best part of a century people were content to read the work and ignore the author.''
        In 1966, Mr. Pottle published ''James Boswell, The Earlier Years 1740-1769,'' an analysis of his own research. In a review in The Times, Thomas Lask wrote that ''the biography justifies itself because Boswell is so alive in it - furiously inconsistent, of astonishing and varying moods, sometimes hard to take or defend but always vividly present.'' Other volumes in the series included ''Boswell's Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides with Samuel Johnson, LL.D.'' in 1936, and ''Boswell, Laird of Auchinleck 1778-1782'' in 1977. Took Purists to Task
        Mr. Pottle had other passions as well, including a love of poetry in general and of the work of Shelley and Browning in particular. He also loved the English language and was unhesitant to take so-called purists to task for linguistic prudery.
        Mr. Pottle was born in Center Lovell, Me., on Aug. 3, 1897. In 1917 he received his B.A. degree from Colby College, then taught at the Hebron Academy, served in the Army and was a high school teacher of history and chemistry. In 1921 he received an M.A. from Yale and for two years taught at the University of New Hampshire. Continuing his graduate studies at Yale in 1923 under Chauncey Brewster Tinker, he was persuaded to write a bibliographic compilation of Boswell's papers, thus beginning the work for which he would become best known.
        Mr. Pottle became a full professor at Yale in 1930 and was chairman of the department of English there in 1932-33. From 1939-45 he directed graduate studies in English; in 1944 he was named to the Sterling Professorship. He was awarded two Guggenheim Fellowships for his work on Boswell and won honorary degrees from the University of Glasgow, Colby College, Rutgers University and Northwestern University. Mr. Pottle also served as Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets from 1951-66. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Fellow of the International Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Mr. Pottle is survived by his wife, Marion; a son, Christopher, of Ithaca, N.Y.; and two sisters, Nellie Hankins and Estelle Stone, both of Otisfield, Me.
        Funeral services will be held tomorrow at 2 p.m. at Christ Episcopal Church in Norway, Me., and burial will be at Elmwood Memorial Garden in Otisfield.
      