
       Wilbur J. Cohen, the architect of Medicare and other social legislation who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare toward the end of the Johnson Administration, died early yesterday at the Plaza Hotel in Seoul, South Korea, where he was attending a symposium. He was 73 years old.
        Wilbur J. Cohen, the architect of Medicare and other social legislation who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare toward the end of the Johnson Administration, died early yesterday at the Plaza Hotel in Seoul, South Korea, where he was attending a symposium. He was 73 years old.
        His son Bruce said Mr. Cohen, who lived in Austin, Tex., died in his sleep after preparing his address for the conference on ''Aging and Welfare for the Aged.''
        Mr. Cohen went to Washington in 1934 with a degree from the University of Michigan and helped to draft the Social Security Act of 1935. He became the first employee of the Social Security Administration and a central figure in a 30-year quest for a national health insurance plan. A first move in that direction had led nowhere as far back as President Theodore Roosevelt's time. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt hoped to wrap it into his Social Security package but feared that this might doom the whole program on Capitol Hill. Recruited by Kennedy
        Mr. Cohen shaped the national health bill submitted by President Truman in 1952, again without success. He remained with the Social Security Administration until 1956, taught at the University of Michigan for four years as professor of public welfare administration and was brought back to the capital by President John F. Kennedy.
        Named Assistant Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, Mr. Cohen barely received Senate confirmation because his reputation as a social reformer aroused strong resistance from conservatives.
        Mr. Cohen put his imprint on every important piece of social welfare legislation Presidents Kennedy and Johnson fielded under the New Frontier and Great Society labels. A quarter-century of experience by then made him the chief strategist and expert the Government had in that field.
        Medicare made little progress at first as Congress turned it back repeatedly. Only after President Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide of 1964 did Medicare pass, as did dozens of other proposals designed by Mr. Cohen. Promoted in 1968
        Mr. Johnson rewarded him with a promotion to Secretary in 1968, and Mr. Cohen remained an activist to the final hours of the Johnson Administration.
        He returned to the University of Michigan in 1969 as professor and dean of its School of Education. But he insisted on being given top-level assistants to allow him to roam the country in the pursuit of social justice, as he saw it.
        He defended Social Security not just on the lecture circuit but as a member of Federal advisory bodies and Democratic policy groups and before Congressional committees. Normally amiable and gregarious, he could take on an abrasive edge in his fervor, and there were many detractors who considered him a preacher of faded New Deal liberalism.
        Mr. Cohen went on the stump in the mid-1970's as a highly visible president-elect and president of the American Public Welfare Association. He demanded more funding to protect the poor and elderly from its devastation. 'Tragic, Unsound, Immoral'
        The Administration of President Jimmy Carter sought welfare reforms in 1979 under which a number of programs were to have been reduced. Mr. Cohen denounced those proposed cuts as ''tragic, unsound, immoral, unjustified.''
        Mr. Cohen helped rally a coalition of organizations representing the elderly, labor, women, blacks, the poor, students and churches. Named S.O.S. for Save Our Security, it wielded enough influence to block many of the proposed cutbacks.
        S.O.S. continued to claim much of Mr. Cohen's time after he left the University of Michigan in 1980 to become Professor of Public Affairs at the University of Texas in Austin. At the time of his death, he was co-chairman of the lobbying group, together with Arthur S. Flemming, a Secretary of H.E.W. in the Eisenhower Administration. Worked 60-Hour Week
        Having survived two heart attacks, he worked a 60-hour week, teaching, writing and lecturing.
        Wilbur Joseph Cohen was born June 10, 1913, in Milwaukee, the son of a Scottish-born variety-store owner. He attended public schools and studied economics at Michigan, graduating in 1934.
        His professor, Edwin E. Witte, went to Washington that year to oversee the commission that drafted the Social Security bill. Mr. Cohen went along as an assistant and became the first staff member hired by the agency in 1935.
        His son Bruce said Mr. Cohen was planning to retire from his teaching position in Texas this year to devote more time to writing.
        Besides Bruce Cohen, of Washington, Mr. Cohen's survivors include his wife of 49 years, the former Eloise Bittel, who had accompanied him on the trip to Seoul; two sons, Christopher of Chicago and Stuart of Ann Arbor, Mich.; five grandchildren, and a brother, Darwin Huxley of Milwaukee.
        Bruce Cohen said a memorial service may be held this summer at a date to be announced.
        Correction:  May 20, 1987, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      