
       Herbert Friedmann, an ornithologist and director emeritus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, died Thursday at Saddleback Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 87 years old.
        Herbert Friedmann, an ornithologist and director emeritus of the Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, died Thursday at Saddleback Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 87 years old.
        Dr. Friedmann, who lived in Laguna Hills in California's Orange County, was a gentle, scholarly man whose fascination with exotic birds with names like honey-guide and parasitic cowbird led him far and wide and into some of the top museum jobs in the country.
        He was the curator of birds at the Smithsonian Institution from 1929 to 1957, and was the Smithsonian's head curator of zoology from 1957 to 1961.
        From 1961, when he was chosen as director of the Los Angeles museum, until his retirement in 1970, Dr. Friedmann tried to develop the institution as a world-class museum, and succeeded in creating a series of new exhibits. Ornithology and Art History
        He was the author of 17 books and several hundred papers reflecting his interest in ornithology and art history, especially bird and animal symbolism in medieval and Renaissance art.
        Many of his writings had popular appeal as he described the impressive nests of the weaverbirds or the deviousness of cowbirds that duped other species of birds into raising their young for them.
        But Dr. Friedmann, who received a number of honors for his serious scientific work, was not above an occasional lapse into doggerel.
        His limericks once went on display at the Smithsonian. In 1957, when the museum opened an exhibit on the honey-guides, a bird that leads animals to honey so that it can eat the wax from the comb, museum visitors could read:  There once was a bird in Nigeria  Whose chatter grew weary and wearier.  Its demeanor grew lax  As it gobbled up wax,  Which it stuffed in its little interior.  Dr. Friedmann, who was born in Brooklyn, received a bachelor's degree from City College and a doctorate from Cornell University in 1923. After a three-year post-doctoral fellowship at Harvard, he taught biology and ornithology at Brown University and Amherst College. Wide-Ranging Studies
        He did pioneering studies in the 1920's in South Africa and South America. After his retirement from the Los Angeles County Natural History Museum, he went to Antarctica to evaluate biological research programs there for the National Science Foundation.
        His books include ''The Cowbirds: A Study in the Biology of Social Parasitism'' (1929); ''The Honey-Guides'' (1955); ''The Parasitic Weaverbirds'' (1960), and ''A Bestiary for St. Jerome'' (1980).
        Among the awards he received was the Leidy Medal from the Academy of Natural Science in 1955 and the Elliot Medal from the National Academy of Sciences in 1959.
        He is survived by his wife, Karen; a daughter, Karen Beall of Northfield, Minn., and a brother, Ralph Friedman of Manhattan.
      