
        Gabriel Levine, a Connecticut manufacturer who supported institutions of Jewish learning, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He was 93 and lived in West Hartford, Conn., and Bal Harbour, Fla.
        Mr. Levine supported Torah studies both in this country and in Israel. Among his principal beneficiaries were Yeshiva University and an affiliate, the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary in Washington Heights, and Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, Israel.
        Mr. Levine was born in Poland. He was taken to Palestine as a child and moved to West Hartford in 1922, going to work as an upholsterer. He went on to found an oil-burner factory that grew into the present Barridon Corporation of Hartford, which makes aircraft-engine parts and does metal-fabricating work.
        He also founded the Han-Dee Spring and Manufacturing Company of Hartford in 1934; it makes springs and wire forms for large corporations. At his death, he remained the president of both concerns.
        He and his first wife, Anna, endowed, among other things, a Gabriel and Anna Levine Scholarship Fund for undergraduates at Yeshiva. He was also a trustee of the Elchanan Theological Seminary.
        He supported Bar-Ilan's founding in 1953. And there is a Gabriel and Anna Levine Library at the Jerusalem headquarters of the Rabbinical Council of America.
        Mr. Levine was a founder and honorary president of Beth David Synagogue in West Hartford. The synagogue's auditorium is named in his honor and a similar hall, along with a scholarship fund, exists at the Hebrew Academy of Greater Hartford.
        Anna Levine died in 1992. Mr. Levine is survived by his second wife, Blanche Rosenzweig Levine; a son, Donald, of Hartford; a stepdaughter, Carol Nussbaum of Englewood, N.J.; a stepson, Lawrence Rosenzweig of Bal Harbour; four grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
        Correction:  August 22, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary on Aug. 11 about Gabriel Levine, a Connecticut manufacturer, omitted a survivor. She is a sister, Judith Gurian of Lawrence, L.I.
      