
        Hugo de Neufville, a retired mining executive and conservation advocate who helped obtain protected status for thousands of acres of open land in New Jersey, died on Aug. 3 at his home in Mendham, N.J. He was 90.
        Mr. de Neufville was head of worldwide mining, smelting and refining operations for the American Metal Company, which merged with the Climax Molybdenum Company in 1957 to become American Metal Climax and later Amax Inc.
        In the mid-1950's, when Mexico sought to nationalize American Metal's Penoles factories and refinery, he negotiated an agreement that kept 49 percent ownership for the parent company.
        He was an Amax executive and board member until he retired in 1964. He then became a management consultant to the president of the Cerro Corporation, an international mining and metal fabricating company, until 1971.
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. de Neufville was active in the New Jersey Conservation Foundation and other groups that lobbied successfully to obtain protection for the Great Swamp and surrounding areas as a National Wildlife Refuge and National Wilderness Area. Later, he organized the transfer to the National Park Service of estate properties adjoining Morristown National Historical Park.
        Working from a private office at 100 Wall Street from 1971 to 1989, Mr. de Neufville managed family investments and trusts that donated more than $6 million over the years to the conservation foundation, the United Negro College Fund and Planned Parenthood of Northern New Jersey.
        A descendant of a Huguenot banking family in Frankfurt, where he was born, he came to the United States when he was 20. He went to work as a clerk with American Metal in Carteret, N.J., the next year. In the 1930's, he served in a copper industry price-setting group administered by the Federal Government, which was later held to be illegal. During World War II, as an adviser to the War Production Board, he coordinated deliveries of zinc, which was needed for steel and die castings, from mines in Canada and South America.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Wade Thomas, two sons, David, of North Branch, N.J., and John, of Mendham, and five grandchildren.
      