
        Rafael Kubelik, a conductor who was renowned for his eloquent, deeply personalized interpretations and who directed the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra for nearly 20 years after brief, unhappy tenures with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Royal Opera at Covent Garden and the Metropolitan Opera, died yesterday in Lucerne, Switzerland, The Associated Press reported. He was 82 and lived in Lucerne.
        A Czech by birth, Mr. Kubelik left his homeland after the Communist takeover in 1948 and lived in London for several years before settling in Switzerland. He became a Swiss citizen in 1973.
        Mr. Kubelik was a regular guest of the New York Philharmonic until heart disease and severe arthritis forced him to retire from conducting in 1985. His performances were considered highlights of the concert season by those who prized a warm, probing, grandly scaled style of music making that was quickly being eclipsed by a more streamlined, modern approach.
        He conducted a broad repertory, and championed many modern works during his nearly five decades on the podium. His performances of Czech works, like Smetana's patriotic ''Ma Vlast'' and the Dvorak symphonies were especially authoritative, and his 1971 recording of the Smetana with the Boston Symphony Orchestra (on Deutsche Grammophon) is considered by many to be the best version available.
        But Mr. Kubelik avoided specialization, and near the end of his career, he devoted himself with increasing vigor to the Viennese classics. The accounts of the Mozart and Haydn symphonies that he recorded for CBS (now Sony) in the early 1980's, for example, defied the trend toward light-textured, chamber-scale readings. Using the full weight and coloristic resources of the modern symphony orchestra, he gave performances that have a freshness and energy that transcend interpretive fashion.
        After 1985, Mr. Kubelik conducted only once. Having declared when he left Prague in 1948 that he would not return until the situation changed, he went back in 1990 to conduct ''Ma Vlast'' at the opening of the first Prague Spring Festival after Vaclav Havel's Velvet Revolution. Mr. Kubelik had conducted the work 45 years earlier to celebrate the liberation of Prague from Nazi occupation.
        Jeronym Rafael Kubelik was born on June 29, 1914, in Bychory, near Kolin, in what is now the Czech Republic. He was the son of Jan Kubelik, one of the great violinists of the early 20th century, and Marion Szell, a Hungarian countess. He studied the violin with his father and the piano with an uncle before attending the Prague Conservatory. When he was 19, he made his professional debut conducting the Czech Philharmonic.
        The following year, Mr. Kubelik accompanied his father on an American tour, both as a pianist in recitals and as a conductor with the NBC Symphony and the Cincinnati Symphony. In 1936, he became an assistant to Vaclav Talich at the Czech Philharmonic, and when Talich was unable to undertake a British tour with the orchestra in 1937, Mr. Kubelik conducted the tour instead. In London, during that visit, Mr. Kublik made his first recordings, two movements from ''Ma Vlast.'' Mr. Kubelik remained in Czechoslovakia during World War II, but later said that as a protest he refused to speak German. He was director of the Brno Opera House from 1939 to 1941, and continued to direct the Czech Philharmonic until 1948, when he left the country.
        ''I had lived through one form of bestial tyranny, Nazism,'' he told an interviewer about his decision to leave after the Communist takeover. ''As a matter of principle, I was not going to live through another. I left Czechoslovakia in 1948 vowing that I would never return until Communist rule was driven from my homeland. They have invited me back several times -- in 1956 and 1966 -- with promises of freedom to do anything I wanted. But so long as that system of government rules anywhere, I refuse to set foot on that soil.''
        Mr. Kubelik first settled in London, where he quickly established a reputation as an opera conductor after performances of ''Don Giovanni'' at Glyndebourne in 1949. Several British posts were offered to him, but so was the directorship of the Chicago Symphony. His tenure in Chicago lasted only three seasons, from 1950 to 1953, and was a disastrous experience.
        His plan to remake the orchestra by replacing 22 of its players met immediate opposition. So did his ambitious programming of contemporary music. During his three years, he conducted 60 new works in Chicago, including pieces by Lukas Foss, Roy Harris, William Schuman and Aaron Copland. He failed to win champions among the critics; indeed, his departure from the post is often ascribed to the implacable opposition of Claudia Cassidy, the chief critic of The Chicago Tribune.
        Mr. Kubelik returned to London, where performances of Janacek's ''Katya Kabanova'' at Sadler's Wells in 1954 seemed to restore his fortunes. He was appointed music director at Covent Garden in 1955, and led the first London productions of Janacek's ''Janufa'' and Berlioz's ''Troyens.'' He gave Joan Sutherland her first major role, in Poulenc's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites.''
        But he had powerful detractors in London as well, not the least of them being Sir Thomas Beecham, who publicly objected to the idea of a foreigner directing Covent Garden. After Beecham published a letter to this effect in The Times of London, Mr. Kubelik offered to resign, and although the company's board persuaded him to stay, he did not renew his contract when it expired in 1958.
        Mr. Kubelik had by then established an active freelance career, and had made many highly regarded recordings. In 1961, after having refused to conduct in Germany for more than 20 years, he accepted the directorship of the Bavarian Radio Symphony Orchestra of Munich, which proved to be his longest and most fruitful relationship. He held that post until 1980, and continued to perform and record with the orchestra until his retirement five years later.
        He also made one more attempt to secure an American podium. In 1971, he accepted an invitation from Goeran Gentele, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, to become the company's first music director. Gentele died before Mr. Kubelik's tenure began, with a performance of ''Les Troyens'' in October 1973, and Mr. Kubelik faced criticism for spending too much time in Europe and for being a weak administrator. In February 1974, five months after his debut as director, he submitted his resignation. He was succeeded by his deputy, James Levine.
        Balding, with shocks of hair sticking out from the sides of his head, Mr. Kubelik was a commanding, lively presence on the podium.
        ''He is not the most precise of technicians,'' Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times in 1981, ''but what he does seems to work for him.'' Mr. Henahan continued: ''He pushes his left palm insistently at the musicians as if asking for a palm-reading, he appears to wave at a friend in the brass section, he holds his arms out imploring like St. Francis welcoming the birds, and he trembles in every bone and fibre.''
        Mr. Kubelik's first wife, Ludmila Bertlova, died in 1961. In 1963 he married the Australian soprano Elsie Morison, who survives him, as does a son.
      