
        Adriano Mandarino Hypolito, a retired Bishop persecuted during Brazil's 21-year military dictatorship for criticizing oppression of the poor, died at a hospital outside Rio on Saturday. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, Brazilian newspapers reported.
        Bishop Hypolito, who retired last year, served for 28 years as the Bishop of Nova Iguacu, a sprawling slum outside Rio where a million people live.
        Often saying he felt his calling most keenly while ministering to the poor of Nova Iguacu, he continued to live there after his retirement. On Friday he was treated in a hospital there for a heart attack, and on Sunday he was laid to rest in a crypt at the Cathedral.
        As a devoted follower of liberation theology, Bishop Hypolito maintained that he could not minister to  people's souls without addressing their physical needs. That belief inevitably led to clashes with the right-wing military dictatorship that ruled Brazil, and which he blamed for aggravating social injustices, from 1964 to 1985.
        He argued that the dictatorship worsened the concentrations of wealth and land that continue to this day.
        He asserted that the military Government snuffed out any criticism by promoting an atmosphere of terror, and that its repression fell most heavily on the poor. He also accused the military of protecting the state, instead of its citizens, by routinely violating human rights. The courts, he said, allowed the violations to go unpunished.
        In 1976, Bishop Hypolito was kidnapped by six men who he later said he believed belonged to the military. His head was covered with a hood, and he was taken far from home, where he was beaten, kicked and -- because he had publicly agreed with some Marxist ideas -- sprayed red. Three years later, his car, parked in front of the National Conference of Bishops of Brazil, was bombed.
        Herbert Betinho de Souza, a human rights campaigner and president of the Brazilian Institute for Social and Economic Analysis, said he had met with the retired Bishop three weeks ago to work out plans to coordinate their work. ''He was in full militancy,'' Mr. de Souza said.
        The Rev. Ricardo Rezende, vicar of the Rio Maria parish, said he measured Bishop Hypolito's legacy not in his work alone, but in the way he went about it.
        ''He was a person who knew with clarity that a country is not built by trampling on social justice, or throwing students and laborers in jail --  that a democracy is built on liberty,''  Father Rezende said. ''His other legacy is hope, because even facing adversity, he didn't stop believing that it's possible to change.''
      