
        John W. King, a former Governor of New Hampshire who created the first modern state lottery in 1963 and later served as Chief Justice of the state's Supreme Court, died on Aug. 9 at a nursing home in Manchester. He was 79.
        The cause was heart trouble, said Mr. King's wife, Anna.
        When his fellow Democrats in the New Hampshire House of Representatives asked him to run for governor in 1962, Mr. King was a good sport.
        Never mind that New Hampshire had not had a Democratic governor in 40 years. As a respected three-term legislator who had been chosen minority leader, Mr. King was at once the natural choice and a willing sacrificial lamb.
        Besides, he had been so relentlessly outspoken in criticism of the Republican incumbent, Wesley Powell, he did not even need to write a stump speech. Also, Mr. King dearly loved a scrap.
        The son of an Irish immigrant who eked out a living as a Manchester factory worker, Mr. King grew up poor and combative, once attributing his competitive drive to the experience of being the odd boy out in a household of six sisters.
        Mr. King put his blue-collar life behind him when he won a scholarship to Harvard University and then studied law at Columbia University. He practiced briefly in New York, then returned to New Hampshire in 1948, building a solo practice into a large firm specializing in labor issues, and winning election to the Legislature in 1954. He seemed content to make a career in the Legislature until his colleagues asked him to run for governor and he said yes.
        For a man on a seemingly quixotic mission, he proved a remarkably determined candidate, criss-crossing the state time after time and addressing any group who would listen.
        Mr. King, who had elevated criticism of Governor Powell into an art, had to change his focus when the Republicans crossed him up, denying renomination to Governor Powell and making a legislator, John Pillsbury, the candidate.
        This cost Mr. King his favorite target, but the nomination controversy also deeply split the Republican Party, which was split further when Governor Powell broke ranks and actually endorsed Mr. King.
        Within months of taking office in 1963, Mr. King, who had promised both not to raise taxes and to increase state expenditures, made national headlines when he signed a measure creating a statewide lottery, the first in the nation since 1894 and, despite a wave of hand-wringing national criticism it produced, the precursor of the dozens of state lotteries that have followed.
        Mr. King, who noted that the measure had been introduced by a Democrat and approved by the Republican-controlled Legislature, proved generally adept at working with both parties, and was re-elected twice.
        But in 1968, while considering whether to run for an unprecedented fourth term, he was distracted by Presidential politics. A fierce supporter of President Lyndon B. Johnson and his Vietnam war policies, Mr. King was especially vicious in his attacks of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy, Mr. Johnson's challenger in the New Hampshire primary, questioning Senator McCarthy's loyalty and at one point warning that a strong vote for ''the appeaser,'' would be ''greeted with cheers in Hanoi.''
        Senator McCarthy made such a strong showing that President Johnson withdrew from the race in favor of his Vice President, Hubert H. Humphrey, who then talked Governor King into running for the Senate. Mr. King lost to the Republican incumbent, Norris Cotton.
        Mr. King turned down an offer of an appointment to the Federal bench, but the next year, 1969, his Republican successor, Walter Peterson, named him to the New Hampshire Superior Court. A decade later a Democrat, Gov. Hugh Gallen, named him to the State Supreme Court and two years later elevated him to chief justice. The only man in New Hampshire history to have been both governor and chief justice, he served until 1986 when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. King is survived by three sisters, Monica McAfee, Winifred Hayes and Ruth Joyal, all of Manchester.
      