
        Mel Taylor, a drummer for the surf music group the Ventures, one of rock's most popular and prolific instrumental acts, died on Sunday in a hospital in Tarzana, Calif. He was 62.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Ray Costa, a spokesman for the band.
        Mr. Taylor was born in Brooklyn and moved to Tennessee in his early teens. Though he was a fan of the drummer Gene Krupa, his first instrument was the guitar. He formed a band, Mel Taylor and the Twilight Ramblers, which soon had its own local radio show. His brother Leon began accompanying Jerry Lee Lewis on bass at the age of 14, and went on to join a roots-music group, Canned Heat.
        In the late 1950's, Mel Taylor moved to California, where he joined the house band as a drummer at the Palomino Club in Los Angeles. On the side, he worked as a session musician, appearing on such hit records as ''Monster Mash,'' by Bobby (Boris) Pickett, and ''The Lonely Bull,'' by Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass.
        In 1961, Mr. Taylor sat in with a newly formed group called the Ventures. A year later, its members asked him to replace their original drummer, Howie Johnston, who was injured in an auto accident.
        By that time, the Ventures had already gained a reputation as one of the country's premier instrumental rock groups, releasing hits like ''Walk Don't Run'' and ''Perfidia,'' which were distinguished by wet, reverberating guitar melodies ringing out over a rapid drumbeat that captured the exhilaration of riding atop a breaking wave on a surfboard. The band's hits continued, with Mr. Taylor adding diversity, from evocative, jazz-inflected playing to psychedelic minimalism to hammering on the guitar with his drumsticks.
        With their prolific output, their clever selection of television and movie themes to remake and their popular instructional albums, the Ventures influenced scores of bands, including vocal rock groups like the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane and the Ramones.
        Though the influence of instrumental rock began to wane with the arrival of the Beatles in the mid-60's, the Ventures never completely disappeared from the pop charts. Most recently, the Quentin Tarantino film ''Pulp Fiction,'' which featured the band's ''Surfrider,'' put surf rock back in the mainstream.
        The band had just completed its 150th album, ''Hits That We Missed'' (which has not yet been released), and was recently touring Japan when Mr. Taylor returned home, ill with what he thought was pneumonia. The Ventures will continue to tour, with Mr. Taylor's son Leon taking his place on drums.
        In addition to his son Leon, Mr. Taylor is survived by his mother, Grace Conrad of Las Vegas, Nev.; his wife, Fiona, of Los Angeles; a sister, Laura, of Las Vegas; a brother, Larry, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Rita Pursley of San Diego, Sylvia Mendoza of Portland, Ore., and Jayme Taylor of Los Angeles, and two sons, Michael L., of Sydney, Australia, and Michael R., of Saugus, Calif.
      