
        Dr. Ray W. Fuller, a co-discoverer of the most widely used antidepressant drug, Prozac, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwood, Ind. He was 60.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Fuller, a biochemist specializing in neuroscience, conducted pharmacological research for 33 years at Eli Lilly & Company, in Indianapolis.
        In the early 1970's, Dr. Fuller, along with Dr. David Wong and Dr. Bryan Molloy, undertook studies in the hopes of developing antidepressants with fewer side effects than the most commonly used medications.  Those drugs, tricyclics, tend to cause dry mouth, blurred vision, weight gain and other unpleasant effects.
        Dr. Fuller and his colleagues set their sights on compounds to increase the levels in the brain of a naturally occurring substance, serotonin, one of the neurotransmitters that carry signals between nerve cells. Many scientists suspected that abnormally low levels of serotonin could lead to depression.
        The Lilly team's work eventually led them to fluoxetine, which increases serotonin levels in the brain by preventing the cells that release it from reabsorbing it too quickly. The drug went on the market in the United States under the brand name Prozac in 1988 as the first in a new class of antidepressants, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
        As the researchers had hoped, Prozac had fewer side effects than the tricyclics, and many psychiatrists said the drug revolutionized the treatment of depression. Though other companies later marketed drugs that worked along the same principles, Prozac remains the world's leading antidepressant, a Lilly spokesman said. More than 22 million people took the drug in the last eight years worldwide, and yearly sales exceed $2 billion, he said.
        But Dr. Fuller was soon called upon to defend his discovery, when Prozac was linked to violence and suicide in a few highly publicized lawsuits. In one, in which a Kentucky man went on a shooting spree in a Louisville printing plant, survivors and victims' families sued Lilly, attributing the gunman's violent behavior to his use of Prozac. Dr. Fuller testified about how Prozac worked, and vouched for its safety.
        The jury found in Lilly's favor in 1994, but the trial judge, John Potter, questioned the resolution of the case, saying he wanted to look into a secret agreement reached by lawyers for the company and the plaintiffs before the verdict. The Kentucky Supreme Court ruled in May that the judge could require both sides to divulge the details of the deal.
        Dr. Fuller was born in Dongola, Ill., and received a bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1957 and a master's degree in microbiology in 1958, both from Southern Illinois University. He received a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Purdue University in 1961.
        Surviving are his wife, Sue, and a son, Ray W. 2d, both of Indianapolis; a daughter, Angela Schock, of Greenwood; his mother, Lowanda Fuller of Greenwood; a brother, Lloyd Myron Fuller of Westminster, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      