
        Sir Anthony Parsons, who capped a distinguished diplomatic career in the Middle East with the tough job of representing Britain at the United Nations during the Falkland war with Argentina in 1982, died on Monday at the age of 73, the British Foreign Office said yesterday.
        The Times of London reported today that Sir Anthony had died of cancer at his home in Ashburton,  Devon.
        After the 10-week war in the Falklands ended and Sir Anthony retired from the British diplomatic service, he became a leading adviser on foreign policy to Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. She described him in her autobiography a decade later as a man of ''intelligence, toughness, style and elegance.''
        Mrs. Thatcher told a reporter that the key to her relationship with Sir Anthony was that when other advisers were cowed by her strong personality, he talked back to her. She liked and respected him for that.
        Sir Anthony, a diplomat with strong opinions and a deceptively tousled, even disheveled, look, was known as a skilled and resourceful operator in the dangerous politics of the Middle East and the wider Muslim world in Africa. Many considered him the most distinguished Arabist of his generation.
        ''All negotiations are the same in one sense,'' Sir Anthony told a New York Times interviewer in 1982 as he was still trying to resolve the Falkland crisis peacefully after Argentina seized the islands and Britain vowed to retake them by force. ''You make progress quickly as you work your way through the peripheral issues. The closer you get to the heart of the matter, the more difficult it is and the greater the chance of failure.''
        He occasionally made a bad judgment call. As British Ambassador to Iran in the 1970's, he knew more about what was going on in the bazaars and back streets of Teheran than any other diplomat, but he also thought that the seemingly disorganized Muslim revolutionaries and their ayatollahs were no match for Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and his army.
        In his 1984 book on that period, ''The Pride and the Fall: Iran 1974-1979,'' Sir Anthony castigated himself for failing to see that the ''rivulets of opposition'' were flowing into a river of protest that would sweep away the Shah's Peacock Throne. In response to these self-critical comments, David Owen, Britain's Foreign Secretary, wrote in The Times of London that he preferred diplomats willing to risk judgments over those who hedged their bets.
        While in Teheran, Sir Anthony was sought out by Western reporters who wanted to draw on his wide knowledge of the Islamic Middle East and Shiite Islam. They borrowed books and sat eagerly through informal lectures. When an American correspondent ran into problems with the Iranian police one night, Sir Anthony arrived at the police station in his official Rolls-Royce, wearing slippers, pajamas and a trenchcoat, to argue for the reporter's release.
        Anthony Derrick Parsons was born on Sept. 9, 1922, the son of a British Army colonel. He was educated at King's School, Canterbury, and Balliol College, Oxford, where he earned a degree in Arabic and Turkish.
        He served in the army for 14 years, finishing his stint as an assistant military attache in Baghdad. While in military service, he married Sheila Emily Baird. They had two sons and two daughters.
        After leaving the army, he began a diplomatic career that took him to embassies in Ankara, Amman, Cairo, Khartoum and Bahrain. He also served as counselor in the United Nations mission in New York from 1969 to 1971. He was then appointed an under secretary in the Foreign Office in London.
        Sir Anthony was assigned to Iran as Ambassador in 1974, and came to the United Nations as Britain's permanent representative in 1979. After his retirement in 1982 -- apart from gardening and playing tennis or golf -- Sir Anthony wrote three books. In addition to the work on Iran, he wrote ''They Say the Lion'' (1986) and ''From Cold War to Hot Peace: U.N. Interventions 1947-1994,'' which was published last year. He was a research fellow at the University of Exeter until his death.
        Sir Anthony was first knighted in 1975 as a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Michael and St. George, and received a higher order, the Grand Cross of St. Michael and St. George, in 1982.
      