
        Scott H. Simpkinson, an engineer who worked in the United States space program from its birth and finally oversaw the technical safety of its flights, manned and unmanned, died last Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Houston. He was 76 and lived in nearby Pasadena.
        He suffered a lengthy illness, said Emily Ertl, his longtime secretary and friend.
        Mr. Simpkinson joined the Aircraft Engine Research Laboratory of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in 1943 as a mechanical engineer. His task at the committee, the forerunner of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, was to assess the vibration of aircraft propellers.
        His next assignment lay in the new field of jet engines, where he supervised the development, construction and operation of special telemetry systems for research aircraft and missiles. He also headed a flight measurement section, shepherding multistage hypersonic research vehicles from the drawing board to the launching pad.
        With the advent of the space program in 1958, he was chosen to organize NASA operations in Cape Canaveral, Fla. Then, in Houston, he led the technical management for the final assembly and tests of the Mercury/Atlas boosters.
        Mr. Simpkinson filled increasingly responsible positions in the Gemini program, taking over as manager of test operations and mission evaluations. In 1967 he took on the flight safety aspects of the Apollo program as assistant program manager and spacecraft trouble shooter.
        He headed a design review committee for the unmanned Viking program and served as manager for flight safety for the space shuttle, starting in 1973. After space missions, he usually helped scientists and other engineers when they wrote their evaluations of successes and flaws.
        He was the author of basic research reports on vibration, free-flight ram-jet vehicles, crash-fire studies, aerodynamic re-entry shapes, and kindred subjects.
        He was born in Piqua, Ohio, and graduated with a B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Cincinnati in 1943, the year he joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. He retired in 1982 but remained active as a consultant in aeronautics and space matters.
        Mr. Simpkinson is survived by a daughter, Carol Anna Simpkinson, of Cleveland, and a sister, Nancy Glenn, of Davis, Calif.
      