
        Viktor A. Ambartsumyan, an internationally known astrophysicist, died on Monday at the Byurakan Observatory near Yerevan, the capital of Armenia. He was 87 and lived on the grounds of the observatory, which he headed until 1988.
        The death was reported by the Armenian Government and the Armenian Academy of Sciences, of which he was president from 1946 until three years ago. He remained its honorary president.
        Dr. Ambartsumyan's main focus was on the evolution of stellar systems, both galaxies and smaller star clusters, and on the processes attending the evolution of stars. In 1947 he introduced the concept of stellar ''association'' into astronomy.
        Associations are loose clusters of hot stars that lie in or near the disk-shaped spiral plane of the Milky Way. They must be relatively young, no more than a few million years old, as the gravitational field of the galaxy tends to disperse them.
        The proposition suggested that the formation of stars must still be under way in the galaxy. The concept made Dr. Ambartsumyan a darling of the Soviet ideological establishment, which liked its implication of revolutionary change.
        His stand was hailed in the official Soviet press as progressive science, setting it apart from bourgeois astronomy as practiced by ''lackeys of capitalism.'' The Soviet newspaper Izvestia described him as ''a fighter for the materialist teaching concerning the universe.''
        His many official honors included several Lenin and Stalin Prizes, one of which cited him in 1950 for ''the discovery and study of star clusters.'' He also was made a member of the Supreme Soviet, the Soviet Union's putative legislature.
        A past president of the International Astronomical Union, he was a member of some 50 scientific organizations and academies worldwide, including the American, French and German National Academies of Science.
        Viktor Amazaspovich Ambartsumyan was born in Tbilisi, the capital of neighboring Georgia, the son of a prominent Armenian philologist. He graduated from the University of Leningrad -- now again St. Petersburg -- in 1928 and did graduate work at the nearby Pulkovo Observatory. He taught astrophysics in Leningrad and Yerevan.
        The Byurakan Observatory, one of the world's leading astronomical research centers, was created largely at his urging. He was named its director in 1944, organized its construction and opened it in 1946.
        His most recent political act was a three-week hunger strike in 1989 with which he and other Armenian scientists sought to attract the attention of the Government to the campaign in the largely Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh to secede from Azerbaijan and join Armenia.
        He was the author of many papers and books and listed his leisure interest as poetry. He was married in 1932 and had two sons and two daughters, but there was no immediate information about survivors.
      