
        William S. Weinberger, a casino host who knew most of the world's biggest gamblers, died on Thursday in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 83.
        The cause was congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Weinberger, widely known as Billy, grew up in Cleveland and graduated from Case Western Reserve University in 1935. He worked for his family's catering business until 1966, when he became food and beverage manager at the new Caesars Palace, the first fully themed temple of chance on the Las Vegas Strip. Two years later was named president of what was by then the favored gambling spot for high rollers including wise guys and European royalty vacationing in the United States.
        In 1977, when he was 65, he was named president of Bally Manufacturing of New Jersey, then the casino arm of the slot machine maker.
        He oversaw construction of Bally's Park Place, which in 1979 became the third casino to open in Atlantic City, and by appealing to a wide range of customers helped give it for many years the largest cash flow of any Atlantic City gambling hall. He returned to Las Vegas in 1988 and, until a few weeks ago, worked as a host at the Mirage casino hotel.
        In 1979, he precipitated a controversy when he signed Willie Mays, the former Giants centerfielder, to a $100,000-a-year contract to entertain gamblers. Mr. Mays was the first in a series of retired professional athletes to accept such posts, playing golf and socializing with players. Bowie Kuhn, then the baseball commissioner, forced Mr. Mays to quit his front office job with the Mets.
        Mr. Weinberger was popular not only with gamblers, but also with employees, partly because he plucked many from obscure posts and moved them toward executive positions.
        Irwin Molasky, a Las Vegas developer and close friend, said that after he delivered Mr. Weinberger's eulogy on Sunday he was approached by a woman who said her rise from night desk clerk to casino executive began when Mr. Weinberger realized she was multilingual and promoted her to the marketing, or player development, department at Caesars.
        In recent years, when Mr. Weinberger worked as a host at the Mirage, he often played gin rummy late at night with Mr. Molasky and others and then, about midnight, began fielding calls from players who wanted a particular suite, a tee-off time at the casino's private golf course or some other favors.
        ''He broke his hip six months ago,'' Mr. Molasky said, ''but as soon as he was out of the hospital, he was at his Mirage office for three hours a day and then would go home and take calls from players.''
        He is survived by a daughter, Barbara Leidner-Fleischner of Short Hills, N.J., a son William D., of Las  Vegas, and four grandchildren.
      