
        Prof. Richard Bonnot Lillich, an authority on international law, particularly in the field of human rights and the adjudication of international claims, died on Aug. 3 at his farm in Charlottesville, Va. He was 63.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the University of Virginia, where he taught.
        Professor Lillich was an early leader in the movement for getting human rights affirmed in law. He was the co-author, with Prof. Frank C. Newman, of ''International Human Rights: Problems of Law and Politics'' (Little, Brown; 1979), a casebook widely used in law and studies in international relations. It is now in its third edition.
        He wrote ''Human Rights Documents'' (Little, 1991), ''International Human Rights Instruments'' (Hein, 1990), and ''International Human Rights: Problems of Law, Policy and Practice'' (Little; 2d ed. 1991). He also was the author, co-author or editor of more than 30 books.
        In 1978 he helped to found the International Human Rights Law Group, based in Washington. He served for many years on the advisory boards of the United States Institute of Human Rights and the Urban Morgan Institute of Human Rights.
        He was born in Amherst, Ohio, and received a bachelor's degree from Oberlin College and a master's degree and a doctor of laws degree from New York University. He taught at Syracuse University before joining the University of Virginia School of Law in 1969.
        Professor Lillich was a longtime editor of the American Journal of International Law. He also was a founder and, at his death, president of the Procedural Aspects of International Law Institute, which published 23 books on international law, including five of his own.
        He is survived by his wife, Gerda Heidel, of Charlottesville and Upsala, Sweden; three daughters, Victoria A. Kruger of Lang-Gons, Germany, Olivia P. Hilton of Moscow, and Jennifer B. Lillich, a student at the Sorbonne in Paris; a brother, George, of New Orleans; a sister, Margaret Siever of Harrisonburg, Va., and two grandchildren.
      