
        Stephan George Kuttner, a Catholic scholar, author, lawyer and authority on legal history and medieval canon law, died on Monday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 89.
        He was professor emeritus of law at the University of California at Berkeley, where he was on the faculty of Boalt Hall Law School and director of the Robbins Collection. He retired from both positions in 1988 but continued to work there and do research until two years ago.
        Professor Kuttner's expertise lay in the discovery, interpretation and analysis of texts and manuscripts documenting the evolution of legal systems from Roman law to modern constitutional law. After the Second Vatican Council, Pope Paul VI named him to the initial Pontifical Commission for the Reform of the Code of Canon Law, on which he served from 1967 until 1983.
        He was born in Bonn and received a doctorate in law at the University of Berlin, where he started his teaching career. With Hitler's rise to power, Professor Kuttner left Germany in 1933 for Italy to teach at Lateran University and do research in the Vatican Library.
        Brought up as a Lutheran, he converted to Roman Catholicism before his arrival in Washington in 1940. From then until 1964 he was a professor of canon law at Catholic University of America, which established a chair in his name.
        In 1964 Professor Kuttner became the first occupant of the Riggs Chair of Catholic Studies at Yale University.
        Professor Kuttner's most recent works included ''History of Ideas and Doctrines of Canon Law'' (Ashgate; 2d ed., 1992), and ''Studies in the History of Medieval Canon Law'' (Ashgate, 1990).
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a past president of the Medieval Academy of America. His honors abroad included membership in the Institut de France and the German order Pour le Merite.
        An accomplished pianist, he also composed music, wrote and translated poetry, and corresponded widely in several languages.
        Professor Kuttner is survived by his wife of 63 years, Eva Illch Kuttner; five sons, Ludwig, of Hereford, Ariz., Thomas, of Fredericton, New Brunswick; Michael, of Toronto, and Francis and Philip, of San Francisco; three daughters, Susanne Potts of Newton, Mass., Angela Botelho of Berkeley, and Barbara DiCostanzo of Albany, Calif.; a sister, Renate Stern of St. Louis; 20 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      