
        Steven D. Gold, an authority on state and local government financing, died on Wednesday night at George Washington University Hospital Center in Washington. He was 52 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Gold, an economist, joined the Urban Institute in Washington eight months ago as co-director of a multimillion dollar project dealing with  changes in health services and social programs as the Federal Government shifts responsibility for these programs increasingly to the states.
        Before going to the institute as a senior fellow, Mr. Gold served for six years as director of the Center for the Study of the States at the State University of New York in Albany, where he was also a professor of public administration and policy.
        As director of the center, he earned a reputation for expertise on state and local taxes, budget deficits and financing. He advocated against balancing the Federal budget at the expense of programs important to the states.
        In this vein, he had criticized the balanced-budget amendment that Congress considered last year.
        ''Republicans are right that giving states more flexibility can reduce some costs,'' Mr. Gold wrote, ''but exaggerate when they say states could save enough to absorb all the Federal cuts without slashing services.''
        Mr. Gold was born in 1944 in Philadelphia, and received a bachelor's  degree from Bucknell University in 1966, and a master's degree and doctorate in economics from the University of Michigan, the latter in 1972. He had taught at Grinnell College and Drake University, and in 1981 became a senior fellow of the National Conference of State Legislatures. From 1985 to 1990, he was director of the conference's fiscal studies.
        Mr. Gold wrote or edited 17 books on state and local finances, the last being ''The Fiscal Crisis of the States''(Georgetown University Press), published last year. He wrote dozens of articles on his specialty.
        Mr. Gold is survived by his wife of 28 years, the former JoAnn Levine, a sister, Linda Gold of Seattle, and a brother, Richard, of Seattle.
      