
        Karoly Grosz, a former Hungarian Communist leader who unleashed reforms that  destroyed the system he believed in, died on Sunday. He was 65.
        Mr. Grosz died of kidney cancer at home after a long illness, the official news agency M.T.I. announced today.
        Mr. Grosz was Hungary's Prime Minister between June 1987 and November 1988,  and leader of the ruling Hungarian Communist Party until June 1989, when he became a member of a four-man party presidium.
        He wrested power from the longtime Communist leader Janos Kadar at a party conference in May 1988, ending an era that began in November 1956 when Soviet tanks crushed Hungary's anti-Communist revolt and installed Mr. Kadar.
        After becoming Prime Minister, Mr. Grosz transformed the political scene in Hungary, infusing a previously unimportant post with power by means of forthright speeches and television interviews.
        He expressed admiration for the economic policies of Prime Minister Margaret  Thatcher, who in turn praised Mr. Grosz when he visited Britain in the spring of 1988.
        But after relinquishing the job of Prime Minister in November 1988 -- he had  led both the party and the Government for six months -- Mr.  Grosz began to appear conservative and uncertain as others began to demand not just reforms but a whole new social model.
        He was forced into a series of embarrassing retreats on issues ranging from a multiparty system to the interpretation of the 1956 rebellion.
        Mr. Grosz, like Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the Soviet Union, seemed unable to understand fully the logical consequences of the political reforms he had made possible and was overtaken by the changes he himself began, a senior party official said at the time.
        According to the political analyst Tibor Vidos, Mr. Grosz lacked some of Mr.  Gorbachev's most important qualities. "He had neither the vision nor the charisma of Gorbachev," he said, "and was overshadowed by the three other more reformist members of the presidium, Rezso Nyers, Imre Pozsgay and Prime Minister Miklos Nemeth."
        In February 1989, Mr. Pozsgay was the first senior Government figure to go against the established party line by describing the Hungarian uprising of 1956  as a revolution and not a counterrevolution.
        Mr. Grosz censured Mr. Pozsgay for the remarks. But the tide turned in the reformists' favor in the summer of 1989, when Hungary reburied the leaders of the 1956 uprising, dismantled its part of the Iron Curtain along the border with Austria and drew up a new multiparty democratic constitution.
        It defied the hard-line Communist Government of East Germany by opening the first hole in the Iron Curtain, allowing 30,000 East Germans, visitors to Hungary, to cross freely into Austria and the West. The East German authorities' inability to stop the flow mocked official assertions of the worker-state's superiority over West German decadence, brought down the longtime dictatorship of Erich Honecker and led to the opening of the Berlin Wall in November 1989.
        With Mr. Grosz showing increasing disapproval of the fast pace of Hungarian reform, he was ousted at a party congress in October 1989 that transformed the Hungarian Communist Party into a Western-style Socialist party.
        The Socialists later lost the first free elections in 1990, but regained power in a landslide victory in 1994.
        Mr. Grosz remained a Communist all his life. Interviewed by the weekly 168 Ora last February, he said he was a Marxist who did not believe in Leninism. He considered Hungary's current privatization process excessive.
        "He is a man who opened the floodgates and got swept away by the tide," a Western diplomat said soon after Mr. Grosz was replaced.
      