
        George Starbuck, a poet who explored profound themes with such a dazzling display of pun, parody and pyrotechnic wit that critics sometimes seemed too busy laughing out loud to take him seriously, died on Thursday at his home in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 65.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, which he had battled for 22 years, said his wife, Kathryn.
        In a career that included a brief stint at the State University College  at Buffalo, six years as a teacher and director of the writers workshop at the University of Iowa and almost two decades at Boston University,  where he was director of the graduate writing program, Mr. Starbuck taught and befriended a generation of leading poets and writers.
        Yet his own standing languished somewhat, in part because his poems were generally dismissed as light verse. Once called the thinking man's Ogden Nash, Mr. Starbuck had the misfortune of being the acknowledged master of comic verse in an era in which comic verse has not been held in especially high esteem.
        A member of a migrant academic family, as he once described it, Mr. Starbuck, who adopted his mother's maiden name after her divorce from his father, George W. Beiswanger, was born in Columbus, Ohio, and grew up in Illinois and California.
        A preternaturally precocious youth and a whiz at math, he entered Cal Tech at the age of 16, but stayed just long enough to conclude that he would never be a great mathematician. He dropped out after two years to devote himself to poetry.
        He studied for two years at the University of California at Berkeley, three at the University of Chicago and another year at Harvard before  ending his formal higher education  without a single degree.
        He hardly needed one after 1960, when he soared to prominence as as a winner of a 1960 Yale Younger Poets Prize for his first collection, ''Bone Thoughts.'' A half-dozen later collections include ''White Paper,'' (1966); ''Elegy in a Country Church Yard (1974) and ''The Argot Merchant Disaster: New and Selective Poems'' (1982).
        At Harvard, where he studied with Archibald MacLeish and Robert Lowell, he and two of Lowell's students, Sylvia Plath and Anne Sexton, formed a sort of rump roadshow Algonquin Round Table. In their case, it was at the Ritz, where they would sometimes drink and talk away the afternoon after class.
        In one oft-told tale in which Mr. Starbuck played Alexander Woolcott to Miss Sexton's Dorothy Parker, she parked her car at a loading platform outside the hotel, then shouted to the world as she got out of the car: ''It's O.K.! We're going to get loaded!''
        It was enough to make a punning poet fall in love, and Mr. Starbuck fell hard enough to have an affair with Miss Sexton. At Houghton Mifflin, where he worked after Harvard,  he edited her first book, ''To Bedlam and Part Way Back,'' a service he also performed for an old University of Chicago buddy, Philip Roth, for his book ''Goodbye, Columbus.''
        If the scope of his verbal talent sometimes seemed at war with his reputation, Mr. Starbuck could not seem to help himself. A fierce opponent of the Vietnam War, he organized teach-ins and wrote scathing antiwar poems, never trying to hide his underlying wit, as in his poem ''Of Late,'' which includes the lines:
        ''Stephen Smith, University of Iowa sophomore, burned what he said was his draft card,''
        And Norman Morrison, Quaker, of Baltimore Maryland, burned what he said was himself.
        You, Robert McNamara, burned what you said was a concentration of the Enemy Aggressor.
        No news medium troubled to put it in quotes.
        During the rage for double dactyls, humorous quatrains beginning with ''jiggery pokery,'' or their three-syllable like, Mr. Starbuck, typically, followed the form over the top, not only producing a number of acclaimed examples (''Clippety cloppety/Cesare Borgia/Modeled himself on his/Father the Pope.'') but  also managed to produce two double double dactyls.
        In his poem ''Tuolomne,'' Mr. Starbuck seemed to confess to an addiction:
        I have committed whimsy. There. So be it.
        I have not followed wisdom as I  see it.
        You avalanche me sermons and I make
        Rhymes for the sake of rhymes.
        Break
        This tippy-toe transgressor of his crimes.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Starbuck is survived by five children from two previous marriages, Margaret Hartsook of Albany, Calif.; Stephen, of Manhattan; John, of Berkeley, and Anthony and Joshua, of Brooklyn.
      