
        Joe Seneca, a character actor who played one of the four musicians in August Wilson's ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom'' on Broadway in 1984, died on Thursday at his home on Roosevelt Island.
        The cause was coronary arrest after an asthma attack, said his agent, Dulcina Eisen.
        Throughout his career in films and television as well as onstage, he often played grizzled veterans who were both wise and well-traveled. He made a mystery of his own age and was thought to be in his early 80's when he died.
        In ''Ma Rainey,'' Mr. Wilson's first Broadway play, Mr. Seneca was the only one of the four actors portraying musicians in Ma Rainey's band who could play an instrument, in his case, the piano. He was asked, however, to take the role of the old blues trombonist, Cutler. The music was on tape, but in the course of the show, Mr. Seneca learned how to play the trombone and also sang, ''If I had my way, I would tear this old building down.'' That blues song set the tone of the play, which looked back at the world of black musicians in 1927.
        Mr. Seneca's first film was ''The Verdict,'' starring Paul Newman, in 1982.He played a witness so old that no one believed his testimony. That role opened up other screen possibilities for him. Subsequently he starred in ''Crossroads,'' playing an old bluesman who teaches Ralph Macchio the meaning of the blues.
        He was also in ''Silverado'' (as Danny Glover's father) and ''Mississippi Masala'' (as Denzel Washington's father), the remake of ''The Blob'' and ''The Saint of Fort Washington.'' He also appears in the new film ''A Time to Kill.'' Among his television credits are ''China Beach'' (playing opposite Ruby Dee), ''A Gathering of Old Men'' and ''The Vernon Johns Story.''
        Mr. Seneca was born in Cleveland. At first, he was a singer with a group called the Three Riffs, then moved into songwriting. Among his songs were ''Break It to Me Gently'' (written with Diane Lampert), ''Talk to Me'' and ''Here We Go Again.''
        In the early 1970's, he made the switch to acting, working in regional theater and at the Eugene O'Neill National Playwrights Conference in Waterford, Conn. He made his Broadway debut in 1974 in ''Of Mice and Men,'' starring James Earl Jones, and in 1981 he was in ''The Little Foxes,'' starring Elizabeth Taylor. The following year he acted in the Off Broadway musical ''Rhinestone.''
        Just before his death, Mr. Seneca starred in ''The Longest Memory,'' a film for British television.
        He is survived by his wife, Betty.
      