
        Air Marshal Sir Arthur McDonald, a career Royal Air Force officer who conducted a secret rehearsal of the Battle of Britain three years before the Luftwaffe flew into a well-prepared hornet's nest that handed Hitler his first defeat and changed the course of World War II, died on July 26. He was 93.
        A longtime senior officer whose posts included the last British command of the Pakistani Air Force, Sir Arthur, who retired in 1961, was also a noted amateur sailor who represented England in the 1948 Olympics and won his last race at the age of 92.
        London newspapers that reported his death gave no details.
        It was in June 1937 that a civilian airliner took off from the Netherlands and flew across the North Sea on a flight of such uneventful routine that when the plane landed safely in London, the Dutch pilot had no idea that he had unwittingly become a footnote to military history or that Squadron Leader Arthur McDonald had tracked him all the way.
        For although there had been earlier tests with cooperating R.A.F. target planes, the Dutch airliner was the first foreign plane in history to be detected and tracked by a new system based on reflected radio waves.
        It was called R.D.F., for radio detection finding, but in a gesture of noblesse oblige after sharing the technology with the United States, whose scientists called it radio aid for directionfinding and ranging, once the Battle of Britain had been won, the British adopted the American terminology and called it radar.
        It was Robert Watson-Watt, the British scientist who discovered and developed radar, who tipped the technological scales in favor of Britain in the air battles of World War II.
        But it was Sir Arthur who led the effort to adopt the technology for military use.
        The son of a British Army doctor who had served in the Boer War, Sir Arthur, who was born in South Africa and grew up on St. Kitts and Antigua, where his family had lived for generations, was the logical choice.
        After graduating from Epsom College in England and joining the air force in 1924, he had studied engineering at Cambridge, becoming one of the first R.A.F. officers to receive advanced technical training.
        It was to come in handy in 1936 when he was summoned back from his post in Singapore to take command of a secret experiental project to incorporate radar into the air force structure.
        Although it had been known since 1930 that reflected radio waves could theoretically be used to detect the position of distant planes, the technology was so rudimentary that German scientists who spent the 1930's working on it, were stunned in 1940 when they learned how rapidly and how well the British had perfected the system and incorporated it into their air defense.
        The British, of course, had the advantage of desperation. With no place in the country more than 20 minutes by air from the nearest coastal point, they knew that without an advance detection system it would take thousands and thousands of planes and antiaircraft guns scattered all over the country to mount more than a token defense against a mighty German Air Force that could pick the time and point of attack at will.
        And the British didn't have thousands of planes. They had only 650 Hurricanes and Spitfires, and were outnumbered by more than three to one by a German force of 900 German Messerschmitt fighters and 1,300 bombers.
        But by the time the air assault began as a prelude to a German invasion, the British also had chain of radar beacons and the techniques Sir Arthur had designed to use them for the rapid, accurate and efficient deployment of defending planes.
        For while it was Watson-Watt, who had been working with radar since 1919, who won the technological race, it was Sir Arthur who gave it its military sting, and not, coincidentally, created the familiar icons of countless movies about the Battle of Britain.
        It was he who designed the familiar war rooms with airmen pushing contrasting symbols of attacking and defending aircraft across a map table and it was he who invented the cryptic radio jargon of angels and bandits.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; two sons and two daughters.
      