
        Del Miller, the Hall of Fame harness racing driver who competed in eight decades and the man who steered his sport through the Iron Curtain, died Monday at his home in Washington, Pa. He was 83.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness.
        Miller, who was an innovator and goodwill ambassador for harness racing, won 2,442 races and $11,010,083 in purse money in a career that began at age 15 in 1929, when he played hooky from high school in Pennsylvania. His career ended at Pompano Park in Florida on April 13, 1990.
        ''The sport has lost its greatest trainer, driver and ambassador,'' said John Cashman, owner of Castleton Farm in Lexington, Ky. ''He did everything in the sport. He knew it, loved it and lived it.''
        And he competed on six continents for it. ''I'm waiting for them to build a track in Antarctica,'' he said some years ago.
        Tracks were built in the Soviet Union during the cold war. Delvin Miller, who had been the driving force behind the International Trot first run at the now defunct Roosevelt Raceway in Westbury, L.I., in 1959, was asked by Yonkers Raceway officials in 1960 to find new sources of horses for its short-lived United Nations Trot. Miller won over the Soviets, who allowed him to travel behind the Iron Curtain and bring trotters back to North America.
        ''Del used to talk about how he had to get the horses through Checkpoint Charlie,'' the publicist Joe Goldstein said of the heavily armed crossing between East Berlin and West Berlin before the wall came down. ''It wasn't any fun.''
        To Miller, most things were fun. Once he rode in a reindeer race in Finland. ''There was only one rein,'' Miller recalled years ago. ''I crashed into a German driver and we both tumbled into a ditch. It was fun.''
        Miller was also a practical joker. ''Once, when we were both scheduled to appear on television, he took my clothes and tied them in knots while I was napping,'' Goldstein said.
        When it came to horses, Miller was seldom caught napping. In 1947 he bought Adios for $21,000 at public auction, and the stallion helped give pacing the ascendancy over trotting in the two-pronged sport of harness racing.
        He later sold Adios in a $1 million deal.
        ''Actually, when I raised my hand at the auction, I was bidding $20,100, but the auctioneer called $21,000 and I had to pay it,'' Miller was fond of saying. ''I spent years trying to get back my $900.''
        Miller carried his love of four-footed animals into the armed forces.
        He trained pack mules in the China-Burma-India theater in World War II. And even in retirement he would often climb back in the sulky.
        ''He won his last race,'' said Ellen Harvey, executive director of Harness Racing Communications. ''On May 3, 1996, at the Spring Garden Ranch in Florida, Del won a training race with Keystone Scarlett, a filly partly owned by Whitey Ford.''
        Miller, who competed in a record 26 Hambletonians, could judge horses as well as race and train them.
        For the inaugural Roosevelt International, the track sent him to Europe to see if any of that continent's trotters could give a race to the formidable American champion Trader Horn.
        ''Delvin came back,'' said Goldstein, ''and predicted, 'Not only will they be competition, but Jamin of France and Tornese and Crevalcore of Italy will finish 1-2-3, in that order.' And that's what happened.''
        Miller is survived by his wife of 50 years, Mary; a brother and a sister.
      