
        John A. McDermott, an urban affairs and civil rights advocate who made waves in Chicago with a gadfly newsletter he founded and edited for 13 years, died on Saturday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. A Chicago resident since 1960, he was 70.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. McDermott, a Roman Catholic, promoted social activism within his church. After settling in Chicago, he was looking for some way the hard-won civil rights victories of the 1960's could be translated into policy and legislation, especially on the local level. To that end, he founded The Chicago Reporter in 1972, a monthly publication focusing on the conditions and causes of poverty in his city and environs.
        The intention was, he said once, to ''use local investigative journalism to give a searching look at race relations and urban affairs.''
        The Chicago Reporter, which won more than 30 awards under Mr. McDermott's leadership, is published by the Community Renewal Society and financed by private foundations. Its staff of four and circulation of 5,000 belie the impact the newsletter has as it lands each month on the desks of civic notables, politicians and editors.
        In 1982, for instance, The Reporter undertook a statistical analysis of the effect that a new redistricting plan in Chicago would have on racial balance in the City Council. Its conclusion that the scheme would, in effect, disenfranchise black and Hispanic voters caught the attention of Justice Department lawyers who started a lawsuit that forced the city to redraw the boundaries.
        Mr. McDermott was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Villanova University. He did graduate work in philosophy at Georgetown University and in public administration at the University of Pennsylvania before a year as Florina Lasker Fellow in Civil Liberties and Civil Rights at Brandeis University in 1960.
        He arrived in Chicago that year to serve as executive director of the local Catholic Interracial Council, a position he held for eight years. He left The Chicago Reporter in 1985 to join the Illinois Bell Telephone Company as director of urban affairs. After retiring in 1991, he established a consulting firm dealing principally with corporate public policy and urban affairs.
        Mr. McDermott is survived by his wife of 32 years, Marie Therese Hertel McDermott, and three sons, John A. Jr., Michael F., and Matthew J., all of Chicago.
      