
        Dexter B. Leen, a Cape Cod shoe store operator who devoted much of his wide-ranging philanthropic work to ceaseless efforts to give everyone a chance to share his love of books, died on Saturday at his home in Cummaquid, Mass. He  was 85 and was known on Cape Cod as Mr. Library.
        The writer Kurt Vonnegut, a friend of Mr. Leen, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
        For more than six decades Mr. Leen, a native of New Bedford, Mass., was deeply involved in Cape Cod civic life, including preserving its historical and  natural heritage or founding the Cape Cod Synagogue.
        A savvy businessman who was an original investor in the lucrative ferry between Hyannis and Nantucket, Mr. Leen had cultural interests that included both fine arts and the theater. He made rewarding investments in New York as a backer of successful Broadway shows like the David Merrick productions of "Gypsy" and "Irma La Douce."
        His main interest, however, was the Cape's network of public libraries, particularly the Sturgis Library in Barnstable, which he helped transform from a sleepy reading room into a dynamic cultural center.
        A largely self-taught man whose father's financial reversals forced him to leave college, Mr. Leen was a voracious reader who could steer a customer's quest for a pair of shoes into a conversation about books.
        Still, in Hyannis, at least, he is likely to be remembered as the kindly man  who ran Leen's shoe store on Main Street for 50 years..
        Mr. Vonnegut, desperate to find someone to sign a $100,000 bond guaranteeing
        his performance as an administrator of an estate, said he had been turned down by virtually every businessman he knew on Cape Cod when he walked into the store and found Mr. Leen on a ladder.
        Without hemming, hawing or consulting a lawyer, Mr. Leen did not even bother  to climb down to read the document, Mr. Vonnegut recalled. "He said, 'Hand it up,' and he signed it, right there at the top of the ladder."
        Mr. Leen is survived by his wife, Elinor; two daughters, Alison Zanetos and Georgia Fallas, both of Los Angeles; a brother, Selwyn, of Hyannis, and four grandchildren.
      