
        Erwin Leiser, who was born in Berlin to Jewish parents, fled Hitler's Germany and went on to win praise for documentary film making about the Nazi era, died on Thursday in Zurich, where he had lived since 1961. He was 73.
        The cause was heart failure, and he had had heart trouble, said his wife, Vera. His death was announced by Zurich officials on Friday.
        Earlier this year, Mr. Leiser, who became a Swedish citizen after World War II, was made head of the film and media arts section of the Academy of Arts in Berlin. He visited the city often and lived there for a time as an adult.
        He left Berlin for Sweden as a teen-ager and moved into a Jewish children's home in the Swedish countryside. After studying at the University of Lund, Sweden, he became a journalist in Stockholm.
        Later he worked in television, and then he got the idea of making a documentary feature film about the history of Germany under Hitler, entitled ''Mein Kampf,'' composed of clips from old newsreels and film obtained from both Allied and German sources. The film appeared in 1960, went on to be shown in scores of countries -- it was a box-office hit even in West Germany -- and was applauded by the New York Times critic Vincent Canby as ''an effective summation of the Nazi era as recorded on film.'' A West German newspaper, Westfalen-Blatt of Bielefeld, called it a ''hard -- unbelievably hard'' record of Hitler's political life and works.
        Among Mr. Leiser's other films about the Nazi era are ''Following the Fuhrer'' (1986) -- with documentary clips and fictional sketches -- and ''Eichmann and the Third Reich'' (1961). In 1985, when the Eichmann film was being shown during a festival in Paris, a bomb went off under a theater seat, injuring 18 people. No one claimed responsiblity.
        Mr. Leiser made more than 50 films, all told, including several other documentaries about Hitler's Germany and the Holocaust and two documentaries about the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and its consequences. The majority of his other films were portraits of contemporary artists and writers, including three films about the artist Willem de Kooning and three about the author Isaac Bashevis Singer.
        Mr. Leiser also wrote several books and many articles, on a variety of subjects.
        In addition to his wife of 35 years, the former Vera Wagner, he is survived by two daughters, Marion Leiser and Sandra Leiser, both also of Zurich, and a grandson.
      