
        Mike Synar, a liberal Democrat who served eight terms in Congress from the generally conservative state of Oklahoma, died of brain cancer today at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 45.
        In the course of his Congressional career, which started when he was 28 and ended in a primary defeat in 1994, Mr. Synar took on the National Rifle Association, the tobacco industry, Western farmers who profited from low grazing fees on public lands, insurance companies and the predominance of political action committees in financing election campaigns. He refused all PAC offerings.
        But it was his 1986 challenge to the constitutionality of a plan for deficit reduction that won him lasting renown. The majority of his legislative colleagues, including all seven other Oklahomans in Congress, backed the measure, called Gramm-Rudman for its Republican senatorial sponsors, Phil Gramm  of Texas and Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire.
        Mr. Synar was appointed to participate in the House-Senate conference on the  Gramm-Rudman bill and succeeded in inserting a clause giving members of Congress the right to bring a legal challenge to its constitutionality. After President Ronald Reagan signed the bill, Mr. Synar took the case to the Supreme Court. His argument, that a provision intended to create an automatic budget-balancing mechanism was unconstitutional, prevailed in the Court.
        At the time of his death, deficit reduction and budget balancing remained at  the top of the political agenda for both Congress and the White House, but as a result of Mr. Synar's action, no more efforts are under way to deal with the issues by legislative fiat.
        "I have probably been the maverick, the reformer, the outsider, probably more than any other person in the United States Congress," Mr. Synar said in 1992.
        Those qualities showed in several of his votes: in 1991 against authorizing the use of force in the Persian Gulf and for a waiting period for handgun purchases; in 1992 to close down the space station program and to allow shifting of money to domestic programs from military ones, and in 1993 against requiring  parental notification of minors' abortions and for increasing taxes. Although he often voted against President Clinton's programs, he listed himself as a firm supporter of Mr. Clinton.
        While few of the causes he pursued in Congress resulted in legislative victories, the battles he fought remain high on the national agenda: raising grazing fees, changing campaign finance and banning tobacco advertising.
        He said his political heroes were Thomas Jefferson and Harry S. Truman. In an interview last fall he said he had tried to emulate two of Truman's characteristics: "He fought special interests, and he told it like it was." Last spring he received the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage award at the Presidential Library in Boston.
        His defeat in a September 1994 primary in Oklahoma's Second District was a prelude to the Republican tidal wave that swept the House and Senate two months  later. On its face, his loss by a mere 2,609 votes to a 71-year-old retired teacher who had spent only $19,000 on his campaign seemed a fluke. But Mr. Synar calculated that tobacco lobbyists, the National Rifle Association, Western cattlemen and other interests paid about $3 million to engineer his defeat. One  opposition billboard carried the message "Stalin, Hitler, Castro, Synar."
        "They basically poisoned the well," Mr. Synar said later. The Democrat who beat him, Virgil Cooper, was defeated in the general election by a Republican, Tom Coburn.
        After Mr. Synar's loss, President Clinton appointed him chairman of the Federal Bankruptcy Review Commission. He also headed the Campaign for America Project, dedicated to changing campaign financing.
        Michael Lynn Synar was born on Oct. 17, 1950, in Vinita, a town of about 5,000 in northeastern Oklahoma where his father, Edmond, was an agricultural agent. His father and five uncles have been prominent ranchers in the region. When Mr. Synar turned 6, his father bought him some cattle, which he raised into a small herd with the help of the 4-H club, the organization sponsored by the Department of Agriculture to instruct rural young people in modern farming methods.
        When his college tuition bills started coming in from the University of Oklahoma and later from Northwestern University, Mr. Synar sold off steers to pay them. He also repaid the $7,000 loan with which his father had started the project. He earned a master's degree in economics at Northwestern and later a law degree at Oklahoma. Before entering politics he worked as a farmer and rancher and as a real estate broker.
        Asked to define his "fondest memory" a decade ago, Mr. Synar chose being in 4-H, in which he was twice a national champion. He was said to limit his footwear to cowboy boots and a pair of jogging shoes.
        Survivors include his father, of Muskogee, Okla.; a brother, Alan, of Edmond, Okla., and a sister, Edwina Synar of Atlanta.
      