
        Richard S. Westfall, an authority on the scientific revolution of the 17th century and the author of the standard work on the life of Sir Isaac Newton, died on Aug. 21 at Bloomington Hospital in Bloomington, Ind., where he lived. He was 72.
        Dr. Westfall, who was an emeritus professor of both history and the history and philosophy of science at Indiana University, died of a heart attack, university officials said.
        The Newton scholar Dr. I. Bernard Cohen, an emeritus professor at Harvard University, said Dr. Westfall's book ''Never at Rest'' (Cambridge University Press, 1980) ''is as close to a definitive biography of Newton as one can hope for.'' He added, ''There are just so many controversial aspects about Newton's life and work.''
        Dr. Westfall, who was known as Sam, devoted 20 years to the project. ''I tried to discourage him from doing it,'' Professor Cohen recalled. ''I told him it would be a long period of his life, and he was a young man. He thought it would take 10 years.''
        The book, which received the Pfizer Award, the highest prize from the History of Science Society, in 1983, was praised as much for what it did not contain as for what it did. Dr. Westfall focused on Newton's science and avoided the kind of psychological interpretation that is often favored by biographers.
        ''Sam was always saying, 'Why have these people come down to us through history? It's because they did something in science,' '' said Frederick Churchill, a professor of the history of science and philosophy at Indiana. Dr. Westfall believed that ''we have to deal with what he did in science,'' Professor Churchill said.
        Not that there was any shortage of fodder in Newton's life for psychoanalysis. Indeed, Dr. Westfall, who considered Newton the most important man in the history of Western European civilization, also once described him as ''a neurotic of the most advanced sort.'' Newton transformed science as an inventor of the calculus (the mathematics of limits and change) with his work on light and optics and particularly with his fundamental laws of motion and gravitation. Yet he could be a petty, vengeful and pompous man.
        He was humorless as well. In ''Never at Rest,'' Dr. Westfall related the experience of Humphrey Newton, Newton's copyist for five years in the 1680's. In all that time, he saw Newton laugh only once, when he lent an acquaintance a book of Euclid's work and the borrower asked him what use it would be.
        Richard Samuel Westfall was born in Fort Collins, Colo., and graduated from Yale University in 1948, after time out for military service during World War II. He also received master's and doctoral degrees from Yale. He taught at the State University of Iowa and at Grinnell College before joining the Indiana University faculty in 1963. He became an emeritus professor in 1989.
        Dr. Westfall wrote several other books, including ''Force in Newton's Physics,'' a detailed study of how  Newton had rethought the notion of force from the earlier ideas of Galileo, Descartes and others. At his death, Dr. Westfall was working on a study of scientific patronage in the 17th century.
        As a teacher, he was known for his carefully prepared lectures, delivered in a thunderous voice, which a student once compared to ''fine preaching in a 17th-century church.''
        He was a stickler for proper English usage, and students' papers would always come back with strongly worded suggestions about style. In a collection of essays published in 1985 as a tribute to Dr. Westfall, two former students wrote,  ''None of us who have experienced these criticisms can consider a split infinitive as an emotionally neutral matter of grammar.''
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria M.; two brothers, Ralph L., of Evanston, Ill., and Alfred, of Glendale, Calif.; two daughters, Jennifer McGrail of Arlington, Va., and Kristin Westfall of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Alfred, of Mishawaka, Ind., and three grandchildren.
      