
        Otto Luening, the composer, conductor, flutist, teacher and tireless advocate for contemporary music, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 96.
        In later life Mr. Luening found it amusing that he was best known for his pioneering work in electronic music. In 1952, with his composer colleague Vladimir Ussachevsky, he presented the first American concert of music for tape at the Museum of Modern Art, and he established what became known as the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center  in Manhattan. But the majority of Mr. Luening's compositions, which number over 300, were written in an original, elegant and idiosyncratically conservative musical style.
        His venture into electronic music occupies just one chapter of his peppery autobiography, ''The Odyssey of an American Composer'' (1980). Few composers have had such wide-ranging musical experiences as did Mr. Luening, who played in pit orchestras for silent films, arranged gospel music for export to Japan, conducted musical comedies and spent one youthful year in Zurich working as a stage manager, actor and musician in James Joyce's English Players Company.
        Otto Clarence Luening was born in Milwaukee, Wis., on June 15, 1900. His father was a conductor, pianist and noted teacher who had studied in Leipzig, Germany. In 1912 the family moved to Munich, where Mr. Luening studied at the conservatory and made his debut as a flutist at 16.
        When the United States entered World War I, the family moved to Zurich, where Mr. Luening played flute in the Tonhalle Orchestra under Richard Strauss and Arthur Nikisch and took private lessons with Busoni, the pianist and visionary composer. Mr. Luening was in awe of Busoni's curiosity and eccentric performance rituals. ''It was my special duty to bring Busoni a half bottle of Champagne before he played,'' Mr. Luening later wrote.
        In 1920, Mr. Luening moved to Chicago, where he conducted the American Grand Opera Company, played flute in chamber ensembles and taught music theory. This pragmatic experience won him the executive director's post in the opera department at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N.Y.
        From there he moved to the University of Arizona, to Bennington College in Vermont, and, in 1944, to Columbia University, where he remained until his retirement in 1970. At Columbia he directed an innovative program that turned into a laboratory for the development of new operas, particularly by Americans.
        There Mr. Luening gave the premiere performances of ''The Medium,'' by Gian Carlo Menotti, ''The Mother of Us All,'' by Virgil Thomson, and works by Ernst Bacon, Douglas Moore and Jack Beeson. From 1941 until 1958, when the program was discontinued, he presented some 40 new operas. One of these was ''Evangeline'' (1948), Mr. Luening's only opera, based on a poem by Longfellow.
        Mr. Luening's move into electronic music was driven less by a bent for technological innovation than an almost Byronic passion for exploring the unknown. In some quarters, his path-breaking 1952 concert with Ussachevsky drew accusations of nihilism. Today, Mr. Luening's early works for tape like ''Fantasy in Space'' seem charming and fanciful.
        Mr. Luening was an undogmatic teacher whose students included composers of such different styles as Seymour Shifrin, John Corigliano, Charles Wuorinen, Mario Davidovsky and John Kander (composer of ''Cabaret''). His efforts on behalf of new music led him to be a co-founder in 1940 of the American Music Center, and in 1954 of Composers Recordings Inc., still an essential contemporary music label. Indeed, as the former New York Times critic Donal Henahan wrote in 1990, Mr. Luening played the part of a ''ramrod-straight hussar'' in the new-music battle, ''complete with Crown Prince Rudolf handlebar mustache.''
        Mr. Luening was active as a composer well into his 90's. Last year his recent Divertimento for Violin, Clarinet and Piano, performed in New York at a concert in his honor, was praised by the Times critic Allan Kozinn for its ''beautifully worked-out counterpoint, rich-hued chord progressions, and irresistibly lyrical flute and clarinet lines.''
        Mr. Luening is survived by his wife, Catherine.
      