
        Babe Dahlgren, a footnote to baseball history as the man who took over at first base for the New York Yankees when Lou Gehrig's streak of 2,130 consecutive games ended, died Wednesday in Arcadia, Calif. He was 84.
        ''I read one article which described me as little-known Babe Dahlgren,'' the man who had a respectable but hardly spectacular career with eight teams over 12 seasons once said. ''I'm just glad to be remembered at all.''
        He was remembered for a poignant moment on May 2, 1939 -- a Tuesday afternoon -- at Briggs Stadium in Detroit. Gehrig, stricken by the neuromuscular disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, was batting only .143 and had been having trouble fielding.
        When the Yankees faced the Tigers, Gehrig had benched himself, out of the lineup for the first time since he replaced Wally Pipp in June 1925. Gehrig's spot was taken by a 26-year-old Californian who had broken into the majors in 1935 with the Red Sox but had played only briefly with Boston in 1936 and with the Yankees over the previous two seasons.
        Years afterward, Dahlgren would relive the moment: ''I remember Lou taking the lineup card up to the plate that day. When he came back to the dugout he went over to the water fountain and took a drink. He started to cry. Lou stood there with a towel on his head, taking the longest drink I've ever seen anybody take.''
        ''I hated to break his streak,'' said Dahlgren, a native of San Francisco who as a youngster had drawn pictures in his schoolbooks of his two heroes -- Babe Ruth and Gehrig. ''But there was no special pressure. In fact, I almost hit four home runs the day I took his place. I hit one homer, a double off the fence, and two more balls were caught at the fence.''
        Dahlgren was indeed a slugger that day, but the Yankees could have managed without him. They beat the Tigers by 22-2.
        Known as an outstanding fielder -- he was a .261 lifetime hitter -- Dahlgren also made two snazzy plays at first base, including a fine catch on a foul pop hit by Hank Greenberg, on the day he took over for Gehrig.
        Dahlgren, whose first name was Ellsworth (the nickname Babe was bestowed by his stepfather, but not in honor of Ruth), remained with the Yankees until Feb. 25, 1941, when he was sold to the Boston Braves. He had played in 327 games for New York. The following June 2, Gehrig died at 37.
        Dahlgren is survived by two sons, Ray and Don.
      