
        Augustine A. Mandino, an insurance salesman who with one book, ''Greatest Salesman in the World,'' was propelled into a long career as a popular motivational writer and speaker, died on Tuesday. He was 72.
        His wife, Elizabeth, said Mr. Mandino died of complications from an aneurysm at his home in Antrim, N.H., where he did most of his writing on an I.B.M. Selectric typewriter in a room adjoining the kitchen.
        There he turned out most of his 19 books, which have sold 30 million copies, in lean prose that told simple stories illustrating basic themes on how to live a successful and happy life.
        The book that catapulted him to success in 1968, ''Greatest Salesman in the World,'' was an expansion of a short story that he had written for Success Unlimited, a motivational magazine that he edited. The story was read in a dentist's waiting room by Fred Fell, the owner of a small publishing house, who called Mr. Mandino and suggested that he expand it into a book.
        The story is about a camel boy who finds his way to success after giving a blanket to a baby in a cave to stave off the cold. The baby turns out to be the Christ child. The book, which became a huge seller in 1968, has since remained a staple in motivational literature, selling about 16 million copies, and has been translated into many languages.
        When Mr. Mandino retired from publishing Success Unlimited at 52 to devote his time to writing, he also became a highly sought and paid speaker in many countries.
        Mr. Mandino, who was born in Boston, entered the Army Air Corps in 1942 and was a navigator in numerous missions over Germany. He was decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross. After the war he did odd jobs, ending up as an insurance salesman. In a 1994 interview with The Manchester Union Leader, New Hampshire's largest newspaper, he said that when he was 35 he considered himself a failure with a drinking problem. He said he turned his life around by going to the self-help section of the library.
        Mr. Mandino then took a job as a salesman at an insurance company run by W. Clement Stone, the Chicago executive and writer of motivational books. He soon turned to writing and editing Mr. Stone's house organ, which he turned into a national magazine, Success Unlimited.
        In the interview with The Union Leader, he said that the road to success was based on simple but hard to follow principles.
        ''One of the things is we tend to give up too soon,'' he said. ''We get knocked down a couple of times and we stay down. It's so important to get back up again.''
        In addition to his wife, he leaves two sons, Dana, of Flagstaff, Ariz.,  and Matt, of Scottsdale, Ariz.,; a daughter, Lynne Bourgue of Glendale, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      