
        Dr. Harald N. Johnson, an internationally known expert on rabies and arthropod-borne viral diseases who was as much at home capturing dangerous animals in the field as working in the laboratory, died on Aug. 28 in South Shore Hospital in Weymouth, Mass. He was 89 and lived in nearby Scituate.
        Not content to learn about viruses under laboratory conditions, Dr. Johnson often headed to remote, sometimes hazardous, spots to track animals harboring the pathogens.
        Dr. Edwin H. Lennette, who was the director of the Viral and Rickettsial Disease Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif., during the nearly two decades Dr. Johnson worked there, described his colleague as a Renaissance man: ''He was an accomplished pianist. He could walk into an open field and tell you the Latin and common names of the flowers, trees, shrubs, birds and other animals -- besides being a superb physician and researcher.''
        Dr. Johnson used that knowledge of the natural world to track pathogens as they moved from one organism to another.
        Working for the Rockefeller Foundation, he developed the strain of the rabies virus used in the vaccine that brought that disease under control in dogs by the late 1960's in the United States, and he dealt with rabies and other public health problems around the globe. His travels included Alabama, where he helped control a serious rabies outbreak from 1938 to 1945; Mexico, where he traced a cattle epidemic to rabid vampire bats in 1944, and India, where he set up a field station studying arthropod-borne diseases in the 1950's that later became the national virus laboratory there.
        The vampire bat project led him into danger. On a foray to capture the bats in a cave, one bit him on the finger. Five months later, he became a quadriplegic. Dr. Johnson was sure that his symptoms were caused by rabies from the bite, since the vampire bats carry a different strain of rabies; his doctors thought it might be another pathogen or a reaction to his many rabies vaccinations. He weighed 185 pounds when he went to  Mexico; his illness took him down to 119 pounds.
        After five months at a rehabilitation center in Warm Springs, Ga., he could walk again, but with difficulty, and he returned to work. Even many years later, he used a cane, but he kept up his field studies.
        An interest in biology came naturally to Harald Norlin Johnson, who was born in 1907 to immigrant farmers in Loomis, Neb. It was a time when farmers doctored their own animals, even sewing up their wounds when necessary, and he was drawn into medicine -- after a detour to pursue his other interest, music, at the McPhail Conservatory of Music in Minneapolis.
        He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Nebraska at Lincoln in 1930, then graduated from the medical school at the University of Nebraska in Omaha in 1933. He trained in internal medicine, infectious diseases and pathology at Harvard, at Peter Bent Brigham and Children's Hospitals.
        In 1938, he joined the Rockefeller Institute, which was testing yellow fever vaccines in the hope of protecting its field researchers. Dr. Johnson was vaccinated that year with one of the vaccines that later led to a Nobel Prize for Dr. Max Theiler.
        The Rockefeller Foundation sent him to the Berkeley laboratory, part of the California Department of Health Services, in 1954 to deal with an encephalitis outbreak and work on other arthropod-borne diseases. He found that the encephalitis was being brought in by birds migrating from the North.
        Dr. Johnson worked on a variety of projects that let him be a wildlife detective, Dr. Lennette said, and one  pathogen he discovered was the Modoc virus, an encephalitis virus. He had to work under harsh conditions to test the mice that turned out to carry the virus.
        ''He caught mice in the middle of winter up in Modoc County,'' Dr. Lennette said, ''scraping away snow and getting into the burrows to get out the mice. He wanted to know where these viruses went in the winter.''
        Dr. Johnson retired in 1972 but kept working in the Berkeley laboratory part time. Last year, he broke his leg in a fall, so he used his recuperation time to write his final publication, a chapter on rabies in a standard reference book, ''Diagnostic Procedures for Viral, Rickettsial and Chlamydial Infections'' (American Public Health Association).
        Dr. Johnson's survivors include his wife of 60 years, the former Frances Maxfield Alexander of Scituate; two daughters, Marion Noble of Sebastopol, Calif., and Susan Robison of Pittsburgh; two sons, Dr. John, of Bellevue, Wash., and Dr. Michael, of Scituate, and six grandchildren.
      