
        Arthur S. Flemming, who was Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare from 1958 to 1961 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower and held other high posts in government and education, died on Saturday in the Washington House, a retirement home in Alexandria, Va., where he spent his last few years. He was 91 and had been a longtime resident of Alexandria.
        The cause was acute renal failure,  his son Thomas said. .
        Mr. Flemming, a Republican, devoted his career largely to the theory and practice of government service and to the Methodist Church and to education. He was the United States Commissioner on Aging from 1973 to 1978 and chairman of the bipartisan, six-member United States Commission on Civil Rights from 1974 to 1981.
        Over the years, he worked for Democrats as well as Republicans. President Clinton, who awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1994, said yesterday: ''Arthur Flemming was a close friend to me and the First Lady. He transcended party, generation and race in search of consensus on some of the great issues of our day.''
        Mr. Flemming was not always so warmly viewed from the White House. In 1981, he was dismissed from the civil rights post by President Ronald Reagan and replaced with a conservative Republican, Clarence M. Pendleton Jr. On the day he was dismissed, Mr. Flemming warned publicly that the Reagan Administration was drifting back to a philosophy of ''separate but equal'' in school desegregation cases. A spokesman for the commission, Charles Rivera, linked Mr. Flemming's dismissal to his strong advocacy of civil rights.
        A stooped man whose voice sometimes trembled with emotion when he spoke of civil rights issues in those days, Mr. Flemming was a familiar figure on the Washington scene even before President Eisenhower appointed him to his Cabinet.
        When he joined the Cabinet, he was an educator -- having just stepped down as president of Ohio Wesleyan University -- with much interest and experience in manpower and labor-management problems. When he resigned from the Cabinet at the end of the Eisenhower Administration, Mr. Eisenhower said that ''dramatic progress'' had been made while Mr. Flemming was Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in improving the health, education level and economic security of the country.
        In leaving office, Mr. Flemming warned that the United States would have to make ''a far greater investment in the field of education than the nation has been willing to recognize'' to meet its basic educational needs in coming years. He left behind a detailed accounting of those requirements in the form of three studies, prepared by the Office of Education, that had been undertaken at his direction more than a year earlier.
        Mr. Flemming was president of Ohio Wesleyan University from 1948 to 1953 and again in 1957 and 1958, president of the University of Oregon from 1961 to 1968 and president of Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn., from 1968 to 1971. His church work led him to become president of the National Council of Churches from 1966 to 1969.
        Mr. Flemming started out in Washington as an instructor in government and a debating coach at American University from 1927 to 1930, and he was on the editorial staff of what is now the U.S. News and World Report magazine for some years in the 1930's. In 1939, a Democratic President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, appointed him as a Republican member on the Civil Service Commission, where he remained until 1948. In the mid-1950's, before joining the Cabinet, he was director of the Office of Defense Mobilization.
        Arthur Sherwood Flemming was born and reared in Kingston, N.Y., and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1927 from Ohio Wesleyan University, a master's degree in 1928 from American University and a law degree in 1933 from George Washington University.
        In addition to his son Thomas, of Alexandria, he is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Bernice Moler; two other sons, Harry, of Alexandria, and Arthur H., of South Pasadena, Calif.; a daughter, Elizabeth Speece of Delaware, Ohio; a sister, Elizabeth Sherbondy of Pittsburgh; 12 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren. Another daughter, Susan Parker, died in 1993.
      