
        Deane W. Malott, a business-minded educator who led the University of Kansas and Cornell University through periods of significant growth, died on Wednesday at his home at Cornell in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 98.
        In 12 years as Chancellor at Kansas, from 1939 to 1951, and 12 years as president of Cornell, from 1951 to 1963, Mr. Malott raised so much money, built so many buildings and supervised such growth in the student bodies, faculties, research and other resources that it seems hardly surprising that his only prior experience as an educator had been at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.
        But for all his business acumen and ability as a fund raiser, Mr. Malott was not content to leave academics to the professors. At Kansas, he initiated major changes in the curriculum, emphasizing thought over memory, and substituting Harvard's famous case method of teaching for some lecture courses.
        At Cornell, where he transformed the face of the campus with an extensive construction program, he put so much emphasis on liberal arts that he was remembered yesterday by the president of the university, Hunter Rawlings, primarily as the builder of its intellectual landscape.
        Mr. Malott was born in Abilene, Kan., where his grandfather helped found the Citizens Bank in 1885. His father was known as the dean of Kansas bankers, and the Eisenhowers were family friends, Mr. Malott served as a Navy seaman in World War I, majored in economics at the University of Kansas and received his M.B.A. at Harvard in 1923.
        As Mr. Malott later recalled it, he had wanted nothing more than to return to Kansas and run a country newspaper. But he had been so impressive as a student that when he was offered a dual position as an assistant dean and assistant professor, he stayed on. In the next few years, Mr. Malott, who was respected for his calm administrative ability and sense of humor, began friendships with scores of future business leaders, many of whom later wrote checks that helped the building programs at Kansas and Cornell.
        Partly, perhaps, because he wanted first-hand business experience and partly because he had fallen in love with Hawaii along with the Hawaiian-born woman who became his wife in 1925, Mr. Malott left Harvard in 1929 to work as a vice president of the Hawaiian Pineapple Company and as a personal assistant to James D. Dole, the Harvard graduate who founded the company, which was later named for him.
        Returning to Harvard in 1934, Mr. Malott wrote casebooks and business texts, advised a variety of businesses and became such a recognized expert on the economics of agriculture that when the University of Kansas needed a chancellor in 1939, the State Board of Regents picked him out of more than 100 candidates, making him the first Kansas native and alumnus to head the university.
        By the time he moved to Cornell, Mr. Malott was a member of so many corporate boards and a friend of so many business executives that fund raising sometimes seemed a breeze. It was rarely more so than in 1956, when Mr. Malott presided over what amounted to a check-writing competition between two brothers whose father had helped build the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation. Two months after Spencer Olin pledged $2 million to build a civil engineering building, his brother John pledged $3 million toward the construction of a library.
        Mr. Malott, whose wife died in 1994, is survived by a son, Robert, of Kenilworth, Ill.; two daughters, Janet Elliott of Ocala, Fla., and Edith LaBonte of Palo Alto, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      