
        Dr. Richard Paul Bunge, whose research advanced knowledge of the mechanisms of spinal cord injury in hopes of helping paralyzed people, died on Tuesday at his home in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said the University of Miami School of Medicine, where Dr. Bunge was a professor of neurological surgery and cell biology and anatomy. He was also scientific director of the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, the nation's largest research center for spinal cord injury.
        Dr. Paul McCormick, an associate professor of neurosurgery at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan, said Dr. Bunge was the leader in applying research on spinal injuries of paraplegics and quadriplegics to the clinic.
        ''He was one of the pioneers in the field of mechanisms of spinal cord injury and potential for regeneration,'' Dr. McCormick said. ''He was defining the processes of spinal cords and nervous system response to injury. Before we can cure it, we must understand what happens to those nerves.''
        Dr. Bunge worked at the cellular and molecular level through his career, always with his wife, Dr. Mary Bartlett Bunge. His research focused on the Schwann cell, which has many functions in the spinal cord, like insulating nerves or sending chemical messages.
        In an interview published in Neuroscience Forum in 1993, Dr. Bunge said he had put human Schwann cells into rats and found some evidence of nerve regeneration. He said he hoped that by the year 2003, doctors would be transplanting Schwann cells as treatment for spinal injuries.
        Dr. Bunge advanced the study of the sequence of events that occur after a spinal injury as he pursued a clinical application of his research: namely, achieving regeneration. Dr. Michael D. Walker, the director of the division of stroke and trauma at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, said Dr. Bunge was a world leader in using biochemistry to move closer to actual human regeneration.
        Dr. Bunge was also known for his skill in dissecting the spinal cord, a hugely complex bundle of nerves.  Spinal injury afflicts mainly young men, and their risky activities are increasing the number of such injuries, seldom killing but leaving 10,000 people a year paralyzed after auto accidents, sports injuries in activities like diving and football as well as the use of guns.
        Dr. Bunge, who was born in Madison, S.D., received bachelor's, master's and medical degrees at the University of Wisconsin. Before moving to the University of Miami, Dr. Bunge was on the faculty of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and of Washington University in St. Louis, and he was an adjunct professor at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Jonathan, of Brooklyn, and Peter, of Seattle.
      