
        Ralph A. Pfeiffer Jr., a retired chairman of the IBM World Trade Corporation who helped revive Covenant House after the shelter was tarnished by scandal, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 69.
        He died of lung cancer, said Scott Brooks, a spokesman for I.B.M.
        Mr. Pfeiffer began his career at the International Business Machines Corporation as a 22-year-old salesman and held executive positions in marketing before becoming chairman of IBM World Trade in 1984. As chairman of IBM World Trade, a unit that controlled the company's sales, marketing and manufacturing outside North America, he answered directly to I.B.M.'s chairman.
        After his retirement in 1986, Mr. Pfeiffer continued to serve as a director on a variety of corporate boards while devoting time to charity work for the Independent College Funds of America and the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
        But he was perhaps best known for his efforts to help Covenant House, a shelter for runaways. In early 1990, the charity, which is based in New York, was struggling to survive after allegations that its founder, the Rev. Bruce Ritter, had engaged in financial improprieties and had lured young men from the shelter into sexual relationships.
        Mr. Pfeiffer was named chairman of Covenant House's board just two months before Father Ritter resigned in February 1990. While many members of the board resigned because of the scandal, Mr. Pfeiffer stayed on as chairman through the year, demanding an investigation of Father Ritter and presiding over the selection of a new president.
        In February 1991, John Cardinal O'Connor paid tribute to Mr. Pfeiffer's efforts to rebuild the charity. ''I am not at all sure that any of us would be here today if Ralph Pfeiffer hadn't been willing to risk his professional reputation through all of the months that it took to reach this turnaround,'' the Cardinal said.
        Mr. Pfeiffer was married twice. His first marriage, to Maryruth Price, ended in divorce. In 1975, he married his second wife, Jane Pennington Cahill, a former chairwoman of NBC.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Pfeiffer is survived by four sons, Ralph A.  Pfeiffer of East Haven, Conn.; John M. Pfeiffer of Margate, Fla.; William T. Pfeiffer of Hong Kong and Thomas E. Pfeiffer of Mexico City, and six daughters, Mary Ellen Imhoff of Corona Del Mar, Calif.; Karen Cassidy of Annapolis, Md.; Christine M. Pfeiffer of Dunwoody, Ga.; Jo Anne Noe of Delray Beach, Fla.; Elizabeth P. Wenger of Darien, Conn., and Nancy R. Pfeiffer of Los Angeles.
        He is also survived by eight grandchildren; two brothers, Charles W. Pfeiffer of Dallas and George J. Pfeiffer of Weaverville, N.C., and three sisters, Terry Rossiter of Cerrillos, N.M.; Catherine Miklos of White Oak, Pa., and Mary Jo Steltmann of Belvidere, Ill.
      