
        Gaillard F. Ravenel, senior curator of design at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on Friday in Georgetown University Hospital. He was 55 and lived in Washington.
        He had a heart ailment, The Washington Post reported. Earlier last week he was at work in the museum as usual.
        Mr. Ravenel, known as Gil, joined the National Gallery's staff in 1970 and rose to oversee for years the design and construction of the museum's exhibitions.
        He and associates selected and created the contours and colors of exhibition spaces employed for shows like ''Vermeer'' and ''Circa 1492.''
        In 1985, Mr. Ravenel, who then had the title of chief of installation and design, and an assistant, Mark Leithauser, were praised by the New York Times critic John Russell for employing ''a skill, a delicacy and a power of suggestion that are truly extraordinary'' in fitting the hundreds of objects of an exhibition called ''The Treasure Houses of Britain'' into what Mr. Russell called the National Gallery's ''famously intractable East Building, in which -- as so often been said -- there is 'plenty of space to meet your friends but very little room for works of art.' ''
        After Mr. Ravenel's death, J. Carter Brown, the National Gallery's director emeritus, said: ''Instead of some former theater designer or architect or window dresser, we had in Gil an immensely knowledgeable art historian -- with good judgment and solid scholarship and curatorial savvy.''
        Another strong suit of Mr. Ravenel's, and of Mr. Leithauser's, was once singled out by an architectural critic: their ''ability to create so powerful a sense of place'' in the rooms of a specific show.
        Mr. Ravenel was born in Washington, graduated in 1959 from Landon School in Bethesda, Md., and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1963 from Duke University and a master's degree, in art history, from the University of North Carolina.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances, and two brothers, Henry, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Lee, of Washington.
      