
        Harold J. Pryor, who as a Long Island Rail Road union chief was involved in disruptions of the railroad's operations in the 1950's, 1960's and 1970's, died on Friday in John T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, L.I. He was 76 and lived in Stony Brook, L.I.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Gregory Bruhn of the O. B. Davis Funeral Home in Port Jefferson.
        From 1953 through 1974, Mr. Pryor was variously chairman or general chairman of what came to be a United Transportation Union unit representing L.I.R.R. trainmen. When he retired in 1974, he was leading 1,600 union members, and the railroad was carrying about 97 million riders a year.
        Through the decades, he had a role in numerous management-labor confrontations that occasionally resulted in strikes, slowdowns and job actions by union members. He was praised in union circles for gains achieved for his union membership but was criticized by commuters and in some newspaper editorials.
        At the time Mr. Pryor stepped down, Walter J. Schlager Jr., who then had been the Long Island Rail Road's president for five and a half years and had often locked horns with him, said, ''I'm going to miss a good labor leader, one who has worked hard to better the labor picture on the railroad -- notwithstanding many of the public utterances made by Mr. Pryor.''
        But in 1957, after a two-hour strike that began just before the homeward rush hour on Christmas Eve, an editorial in The New York Herald Tribune said: ''As a result of Mr. Pryor's pique, thousands of commuters were delayed for hours in getting home on Christmas Eve, with Long Island stations turned into mob-filled arenas. The sense of responsibility displayed by the union was nil.'' Other detractors described him as aggressive, truculent and impetuous.
        What has been called the most memorable strike of Mr. Pryor's time as a union leader -- during which he was elected to five successive four-year terms -- was a 26-day work stoppage in 1960 that disrupted the commuting of hundreds of thousands of train riders.
        In 1966, his friends were amused when Mr. Pryor, by no means a teetotaller, called a strike for the stated reason that railroad executives had been drinking at a luncheon. Actually, the strike came in retaliation for the suspension of three trainmen who had been charged with drinking during working hours.
        In those days, Mr. Pryor was an imposing figure: 6 feet 1 inch, 220 pounds, forceful in speech and encyclopedic in his knowledge of the working trainman's problems.
        Late in his union career, he acknowledged that his tenure had been punctuated by strike threats from time to time and that, as he put it, he had been ''vilified'' and ''my fan mail ran 2,000 to 10 against me.'' But he added, ''I have a philosophy that I never speak so loudly that I never hear.''
        Though he was frequently angry during negotiations and he walked out of many talks with management, it was said in 1966 that he was never so angry that he was not listening for the first hint, however faint, that an acceptable compromise would soon be proposed.
        Mr. Pryor, a native of Brooklyn, came to admire labor leaders as a teen-ager. He graduated in 1939 from Richmond Hill High School in Queens and attended Catholic College in Brooklyn for three years. In 1942, he was hired as an L.I.R.R. brakeman, but he spent most of World War II as an airman in the Far East. Then, he rejoined the railroad and went on to win a lesser union office in 1951 before being elected a union leader.
        In his later years, he taught at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
        His wife of 55 years, the former Mary Miles, died in 1988.
        He is survived by two sons, Denis, of South Setauket, L.I., who is president of the Suffolk County Association of Municipal Employees, and Richard, of Centereach, L.I.; a daughter, Susan Fijalkowski of Ridge, L.I.; two sisters, Rita Schlagater of Mineola, L.I. and Joan Hagen of White House, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      