
        James Gerald Gulliver, the son of a grocer who rose to become chairman of the Argyll Group, one of Britain's largest food retailing businesses, died on Thursday. He was 66.
        Mr. Gulliver died of a heart attack, British press reports said.
        Mr. Gulliver's death came 10 years after his failed attempt to buy the Distillers Company in one of the most hotly contested and controversial bidding wars of the 1980's. He retired after Guinness, his rival in the takeover battle, won control of the maker of Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky and Gordons gin.
        Mr. Gulliver was born in Campbeltown, Scotland. He studied engineering at the University of Glasgow and the Georgia Institute of Technology, and served three years in the Royal Navy before beginning a career with Urwick, Orr & Partners, a management firm, in 1961.
        Mr. Gulliver got his first break in 1965 when he joined Fine Fare, a supermarket chain that was losing money. Starting in customer relations, he quickly moved up to managing director, returning the chain to a profit. From 1967 until 1972 -- a year in which he was named Britain's Young Businessman of the Year -- he served as Fine Fare's chairman.
        Mr. Gulliver then left the supermarket chain to create his own business, buying a stake in Oriel, a food distribution business he built up substantially before selling.
        In 1977, he created James Gulliver Associates, soon to be renamed the Argyll Group, through which he acquired numerous companies, including two Scottish grocery chains, Galbraith and Templeton, the 130 British Safeway outlets, and a merger with Amalgamated Distilled Products that put him at the helm of one of Britain's largest food and drinks groups.
        Mr. Gulliver's 1988 acquisition of Lowndes and Queensway, a carpet and furniture company, proved to be a drain, however, as losses mounted and the company was forced into bankruptcy. Mr. Gulliver stepped down shortly afterward as chairman of the Argyll group.
        The corporate takeover bid he mounted in 1985 to acquire one of Scotland's most famous companies, albeit one that was in decline at the time, was an audacious as well as a personal quest by Mr. Gulliver whose roots were in a Scottish town that was once home to 20 distilleries. Having become a giant in the food business, he hoped to get into the liquor business in a big way, thus crowning his career as one of Scotland's most successful businessmen.
        But in the bruising battle that ensued with Guinness over the liquor company, he lost partly due to the methods used by Ernest Saunders, then chairman of Guinness.
        Eventually four businessmen, including Mr. Saunders, stood trial for the manipulation of the Guinness share price, which had enabled it to triumph over the Argyll offer. Mr. Saunders received a jail sentence for his part in the illegal share support operation.
        None of this was enough to reverse the outcome, however, and the Guinness deal was allowed to stand although the affair is still viewed as one of the biggest financial scandals of the 1980's in Britain.
        Mr. Gulliver is survived by his fourth wife, Melanie, and by three sons and two daughters from his first marriage.
      