
        Dr. Maurice M. Black, a pathologist who was an expert on breast cancer, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Hewlett Harbor, L.I.
        The cause was complications related to liver cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Black taught pathology from 1958 to 1990 at what is now New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y. He was also the director of the Medical College's Institute for Breast Diseases for two decades and was affiliated with New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn in recent years.
        Dr. Robert V. P. Hutter, the editor in chief of Cancer, a journal published by the American Cancer Society, said yesterday that Dr. Black was a pioneer in identifying characteristics of the nuclei of cancer cells that, when examined with a microscope, were useful in predicting the probability of a breast-cancer patient's survival.
        In an article in 1953 in the New York State Journal of Medicine, Dr. Black expressed a negative view about ''the use of ultra-radical surgical attempts to cure breast cancer.''
        Dr. Reinhard E. Zachrau, a professor of pathology at the Institute for Breast Diseases, said that the article had appeared almost four decades before a consensus ''was reached that, in treatment of stage I and II breast cancer, mastectomy was not superior to more limited, breast-conserving surgery.''
        In 1977, Dr. Black was a co-author of a report, published in The Journal of the American Medical Association, that said that there was a sharp rise in the number and types of breast disorders that were treated surgically after breast cancer had been diagnosed in Betty Ford and Happy Rockefeller.
        Mr. Black was born in Cleveland and received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from Long Island University and his medical degree in 1943 from New York Medical College. During World War II, he was an officer in the Army Medical Corps and received the Silver Star and three battle stars.
        His extensive professional writing included being the co-author of two books, ''Human Cancer'' (1957) and ''Dynamic Pathology: a Manual for Students and Physicians'' (1964).
        Dr. Black is survived by his wife of 55 years, Beatrice Gilbert; two daughters, Andrea Jeffries of Mohegan Lake, N.Y., and Elizabeth Shapiro of Owings Mills, Md.; three grandchildren, and two brothers, George, of Jamesburg, N.J., and Leonard, of Catskill, N.Y.
      