
        James F. Bonner, a molecular biologist whose interests ranged from the intricacies of gene regulation to ways in which agriculture could better provide for the world's needs, died on Friday at a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86 and lived in South Pasadena.
        Dr. Bonner, professor emeritus of biology at the California Institute of Technology and a member of the National Academy of Sciences, was known for discoveries in plant biochemistry and for work on how plant and, later, animal genes are switched on and off.
        He also helped move science from the laboratory into public forums, writing and speaking about such issues as world resources in this century and the next and how molecular biology could improve people's lives. He had great faith in science's ability to increase food production, but he was concerned about inequality in the allocation of resources. Four of his 10 books were on these public policy issues; the rest were on plant biochemistry and development.
        His practical bent led him to develop a better way to collect natural rubber from trees, which helped Malaysia nearly double its production, and he helped invent a widely used method for harvesting oranges mechanically.
        James Frederick Bonner was born to two chemists in Ansley, Neb., on Sept. 1, 1910. He received a bachelor's degree in chemistry and mathematics from the University of Utah in 1931. Three years later, he received a Ph.D. in biology from Caltech, a center for the study of the new molecular biology. He joined the faculty there in 1936.
        In the 1930's, Dr. Bonner and his colleagues performed classic experiments on the timing of flowering, said Dr. Elliot M. Meyerowitz, a biology professor at Caltech. Dr. Bonner showed that some plants needed a long night to flower and that a flash of light in the dark cycle could derail the entire process. Grafting experiments showed that the signal was received in the leaves and was transmitted to the part of the plant where flowers would form.
        Dr. Bonner was drawn into work on gene regulation by his curiosity about developing organisms. ''If biologists can learn to turn the genes off and on,'' he wrote in The Saturday Evening Post in 1961, ''they will have taken the first step toward controlling the development of the fertilized egg into an adult organism. With such knowledge, we could remedy defects as they appear in the developing child, replace worn-out organs and perhaps even initiate embryonic development in cells removed from the adult body.''
        He found that proteins in the cell nucleus, called histones, were responsible for turning genes off and that plant hormones interacted with the histones.
        Dr. Bonner was married to Ingelore Bonner, who worked with him and died in 1995. He is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a daughter, Dr. Joey Bonner of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and a son, Dr. James Jose, of Bloomington, Ind.; two stepdaughters, Pamela Mandel of Alexandria, Va., and Terry Mandel of San Francisco; three brothers, Dr. Francis Bonner of Setauket, L.I., Dr. Lyman Bonner of Pasadena and Robert Bonner of Houston; a sister, Priscilla Horton of Salt Lake City, and a grandson.
      