
        Paul Draper, whose stylish tap dancing to classical music made him an international star in the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at his home in Woodstock, N.Y. He was 86.
        The cause was emphysema, said his daughter Pamela Draper.
        Known as the aristocrat of tap, Mr. Draper brought cool intellectualism and playful wit to the dance form. He performed to everything from jazz and the bossa nova to Brahms and Scarlatti, establishing a style very different from that of Bill (Bojangles) Robinson, Fred Astaire and the Nicholas Brothers.
        Mr. Draper had a gift for assuming the qualities of the music as he danced, looking elegant to Mendelssohn and earthy to the samba. In part this was because of the way he  used his upper body as well as his  legs and feet.
        He was praised for his musicality and the exquisite and uncompromising taste of his performing. In a 1948 review, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, likened his feet to fingers on a keyboard. ''His touch is sensitive, full of dynamic shading,'' Mr. Martin wrote. ''His phrasing is beautifully free and rhythmic, and against the background of his carefully chosen music he invents the most delicate and rapturous counter phrases.''
        Mr. Draper was born in Florence to a socially and artistically prominent family that included Charles A. Dana, his great-grandfather, founder of The New York Sun, and the monologuist Ruth Draper, who was his aunt. His mother, Muriel, was a writer, lecturer and noted entertainer whose salon in the family home in London attracted such guests as Henry James, Pablo Picasso, Arthur Rubinstein and the novelist Norman Douglas, who promised to give the child a penny every time he was naughty.
        Mr. Draper's parents were divorced soon after the family moved to the United States, and he was sent to live with a series of relatives. He  spent his youth being expelled from a long list of private schools and taking on equally short-lived, mostly menial jobs.
        A natural dancer, he got a job as a teacher at an Arthur Murray dance school, though he was unschooled himself. In 1930, he took the only tap lessons of his life, at Tommy Nip's Broadway dance school. After only six lessons, he sailed for London, confident that he would find work as a dancer. He scraped together a living performing flashy routines in Europe and the United States, then enrolled in the School of American Ballet and realized the possibilities of combining tap and classical ballet. By 1937, he had become a ''slim, hard-bitten'' headliner, as a reporter put it, at top clubs like the Persian Room at the Plaza Hotel and the Rainbow Room.
        Carnegie Hall followed, then Broadway and a film version of William Saroyan's ''Time of Your Life'' in 1948. But the most important event in his career occurred in 1940, when he teamed up with Larry Adler, the virtuoso harmonica player, and the two became a world-famous act that performed together through 1949, appearing as regulars at City Center. The act disbanded when jobs dried up after they were blacklisted as Communist sympathizers.
        Mr. Draper had served as a spokesman for a committee of actors, producers and writers to oppose an inquiry by the House Committee on Un-American Activities into Communist infiltration of the film industry. Both he and Mr. Adler publicly supported Henry Wallace, the Progressive Party nominee for President in 1948, and Mr. Draper had performed in benefits to raise money for groups and causes labeled as subversive by the committee. ''I did do the things and belong to the organizations they said,'' Mr. Draper said in a 1980 interview. ''I was happy to, and am still proud of it.''
        In 1949, the two sued a Connecticut woman for libel after she protested their performing at a local concert, describing them as having been denounced as pro-Communist. The suit became a cause celebre, prompting Westbrook Pegler, the columnist, to  call for contributions to help pay for  the woman's defense. Ed Sullivan canceled an appearance by Mr. Draper on his television show, and wrote  a letter of apology to his advertisers. The trial ended in a hung jury in May 1950. Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper left the country in 1951; Mr. Draper settled in Switzerland for three years.
        Mr. Draper returned to perform at the 92d Street Y, where he was greeted with a standing ovation, and also appeared on Broadway in 1954 with his aunt. In 1955, he danced the title role in a production of Stravinsky's ''Histoire du Soldat'' at the Phoenix Theater, but lean years followed during which his daughter remembers that work consisted chiefly of six- to seven-hour daily rehearsal sessions alone in a rented studio.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Draper danced in Jerome Moross's ''Gentlemen, Be Seated!'' at the New York City Opera, created the choreography for George Kleinsinger's ''Archy and Mehitabel'' at Goodspeed Opera and danced on Broadway in the musical ''Come Summer.''
        He was a professor of theater at Carnegie-Mellon Institute from 1967 to 1978, and he continued to be recognized as an important, if seldom seen, figure in concert dance, performing at the American Dance Festival. Mr. Draper returned to the New York dance scene in 1980 to create a piece, his first for dancers other than himself, for Lee Theodore's American Dance Machine.
        Mr. Draper's best-known piece was ''Sonata for Tap Dancer,'' danced without musical accompaniment, in which the sound of his feet served as the equivalent of a traditional sonata for a solo instrument. He was also known for satirical sketches that included ''A Sharp Character'' and ''Dance Hall.''
        Mr. Draper was married to the ballerina Heidi Vosseler, who died in 1992.
        In addition to his daughter Pamela, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      