
        Max Manus, a Norwegian resistance leader whose Oslo Gang sank so many German warships, blew up so many German planes and kept Norwegian spirits so high during the Nazi occupation in World War II that he became a national hero, died on Friday, The Associated Press reported. He was 81.
        When it came time for the Norwegian government in exile to recruit and train saboteurs to harry German shipping, industry and 400,000 occupation troops, the officials could hardly have found a more willing or qualified candidate than Mr. Manus.
        By age 25 he was a restless, quick-witted adventurer who had been everything from a seaman to a smuggler. He served as a volunteer in Finland during the so-called winter war of 1939-40 with the Soviet Union.
        After the surprise German invasion of Norway in April 1940, Mr. Manus was spirited out of the country, arriving in England seven months later to begin a crash course with the Kompani Linge band of volunteers in sabotage, parachute jumping and disguise.
        Once he and a countryman had parachuted safely into the countryside outside Oslo and been supplied with hundreds of pounds of explosives and other provisions in follow-up air drops, there was hardly a day that the Germans did not feel their sting.
        Although his chief target was German shipping in the Oslo harbor, Mr. Manus, who sometimes spent days under stinking piers waiting for cargo ships to tie up and who claimed even a battleship among his prizes, blew up virtually any German military or industrial target he encountered, including more than 100 German warplanes.
        Although his name was at the top of the wanted lists in the hands of the Nazi and collaborationist police, the Norwegian people were unified in opposition. (The puppet Prime Minister Vidkun Quisling was made the butt of so many vicious jokes, for example, that his very name became synonymous with collaborationist perfidy). As a result, Mr. Manus boldly walked the streets of Oslo with virtual impunity, knowing that if his disguise did not protect him, his many loyal friends would.
        Still, he sometimes had to rely on himself. Once, when he was wounded during a mission and sought treatment in a hospital, he had to crash through a window to escape the police.
        In pursuit of his mission, Mr. Manus and his associates sometimes went to extraordinary lengths, using inflatable rafts and rubber swimming suits to reach their targets, for example, and even developing a canoe-borne torpedo.
        In one of their most spectacular successes, Mr. Manus and two associates punched a hole through a concrete pier. It was empty and only lightly guarded at the time, but swarmed with troops armed with machine guns after the arrival of the 17,000-ton transport ship Donau, which had operated in the North Sea for several years.
        Then, as the guards shot at anything they saw floating near the ship, Mr. Manus and his team used the hole shielded by the pier elevator to drop down to the ice beneath the pier.  There they inflated a dinghy, broke through the ice and attached explosives with time-delay fuses to the hull. The next day, Jan. 19, 1945, as the loaded ship got under way, it exploded and sank.
        The Germans withdrew shortly thereafter and by May Mr. Manus was telling his tale to visiting journalists. Mr. Manus, who was lavishly decorated by the British, American and Norwegian Governments, was hardly a reticent hero.
        Within a few years he had written two popular books describing his exploits, including ''Nine Lives Before 30,'' which was published in the United States by Doubleday in 1947. In Norway, where his autobiography was published last year, he was not forgotten.
        In reporting his death, the state radio network said he ''did more damage to the German war machine that many major military actions.''
      