
        Ray Coleman, a former editor of Melody Maker, the English pop music weekly, and the author of several biographies of rock musicians, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Shepperton, near London. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported.
        In a field where biographers often focus on lurid backstage gossip, Mr. Coleman wrote with an evident admiration and sympathy for his subjects. Often he had their approval, or that of their families, yet he did not whitewash their problems. In ''Lennon,'' written with the cooperation of John Lennon's first wife, Cynthia, and his widow, Yoko Ono, and in his ''Clapton!,'' an authorized biography of Eric Clapton, he wrote frankly about drug and marital problems, but without allowing them to eclipse the musicians' professional accomplishments.
        Mr. Coleman's ''Lennon,'' published in 1984, four years after Lennon was killed, remains the most comprehensive biography of the former Beatle. Friendly with the Beatles since the early 1960's, when he covered several of their tours for Melody Maker, Mr. Coleman published several books about them. In ''McCartney: Yesterday and Today,'' written with Paul McCartney's cooperation, he took the unusual approach of building a biography of Mr. McCartney around an examination of a single song, ''Yesterday.'' In ''The Man Who Made the Beatles: An Intimate Biography of Brian Epstein,'' he conveyed a sense of the engaging and increasingly erratic personality of the Beatles' manager.
        Mr. Coleman was born in Leicester in 1937, and worked at The Leicester Evening Mail, The Brighton Evening Argus and The Manchester Evening News before moving to London to become a reporter for Melody Maker in 1960. He became deputy editor in 1963, and after leaving to edit Disc in 1967, he returned to Melody Maker as editor in chief in 1970, a post he held until 1979. By adding investigative articles about the pop business to Melody Maker's traditional mixture of artist profiles and reviews, he helped give rock journalism a harder edge.
        But Mr. Coleman was also quick to spot potential trends. Besides his enthusiastic coverage and cultivation of the Beatles during their rise, he gave both space and support to the early careers of Elton John, Bob Marley, David Bowie, Led Zeppelin and Genesis. He also oversaw the establishment of several spinoff publications, including Black Music, Musicians Only and an American edition of Melody Maker.
        Besides his Lennon, McCartney, Clapton and Epstein books, Mr. Coleman wrote ''Frank Sinatra: A Celebration'' and biographies of the Carpenters and Rod Stewart. He also collaborated with Bill Wyman of the Rolling Stones and Gerry Marsden of Gerry and the Pacemakers on their autobiographies, ''Stone Alone'' and ''I'll Never Walk Alone.''
        Mr. Coleman is survived by his wife, Pamela, and two sons, Miles and Mark.
      