
        Winston H. Cox, the former chairman and chief executive of Showtime Network and an outspoken critic of gratuitous violence on television, died on Saturday after collapsing at a Manhattan health club. He was 55.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Jay Larkin, a senior vice president of Showtime, a division of Viacom.
        Mr. Cox, known as Tony, resigned from Viacom in early 1995, after a corporate reorganization. Recently, he had become chief executive of Cybersmith, a chain of computer-equipped cafes in Cambridge, Mass. He also owned the San Jose Giants, a class-A minor league baseball team in the California League.
        While at Showtime, Mr. Cox helped initiate the ''Voices Against Violence'' campaign, the cable television industry's effort to curb the level of violence in its programs in the face of threatened Federal legislation. He also served on the advisory board of the John A. Reisenbach Foundation, a crime-prevention group set up to honor a television industry executive killed in a shooting in New York City in 1990.
        Mr. Cox, a 1963 graduate of Princeton University, began his media career at Time Inc. in 1965, the same year he earned a master's degree in business administration from the Harvard Business School. In 1976, he joined the Home Box Office Network Group, a division of Time, and in 1982 he became the movie network's executive vice president of operations.
        In 1987, he was recruited to take the chairman's post at Showtime, a rival of HBO. Through his relationship with the boxing promoter Don King, Mr. Cox helped secure for Showtime the contract to televise the Mike Tyson prizefights, Mr. Larkin said.
        Mr. Cox had received many industry awards, including the prestigious Vanguard Award from the National Cable Television Association. He was also recognized by the National Association of Minorities in Cable for his efforts to increase the representation of women and minorities in the industry, and served on the board of Cable Positive, the cable industry's AIDS action group.
        Besides his industry affiliations, Mr. Cox was active in the Central Park Conservancy and in alumni affairs at Princeton.
        Mr. Cox was a resident of Manhattan and Nantucket, Mass. He is survived by his wife, Heidi Stamas Cox, of Manhattan; their two young children, Alexandra and Samuel, also of Manhattan, and two adult children from an earlier marriage, Christopher and Elizabeth, also of Manhattan. Survivors also include his mother, Rosalie Cox Volkening, of Hightstown, N.J.; a brother, Charles Cox, of Minneapolis, and a sister, Virginia C. Tullock, of Vero Beach, Fla., and Nantucket.
      