
        Norman Harry Hollow, a former tribal chairman of the Fort Peck, Mont., Indian reservation, which is home to members of the Assiniboine and Sioux tribes, died in his sleep early Saturday at his ranch near Fort Kipp, Mont. He was 76.
        He had been in failing health after having heart surgery earlier this year, said his grandson Spike Bighorn, according to The Associated Press.
        Mr. Hollow, a Sioux, held the tribal chairman's post for a dozen years, beginning in 1973, and then stepped down to let a new chairman take over and to spend more time on personal matters.
        As chairman, he was involved in negotiations that led to a 1985 water rights agreement -- between the tribes of the Fort Peck reservation and the State of Montana -- which guaranteed for all time the water rights of tribe members and nearby non-Indians. State officials said then that it was the first such pact in Montana that was reached by negotiating and not by courtroom strife.
        In 1982 he was given an Interior Department award for being an outstanding Indian leader, and he received numerous other honors over the years for his work in Indian affairs.
        In 1981, the Supreme Court upheld a $106 million award to the Sioux Nation after a long legal struggle by the Sioux to win just compensation for the Government's seizure of their sacred Black Hills in South Dakota more than a century earlier.
        ''This case dates back to 1922,'' Mr. Hollow said in 1981. ''I remember when I was a little boy this was all the old-timers talked about, the Black Hills case.''
        Before becoming tribal chairman, he served, from 1947 to 1973, as a member of the Fort Peck reservation's tribal executive board. In 1993, the reservation had a work force of more than 5,700 Indians and almost two million acres of land spread over four counties.
        Mr. Hollow was born in Fort Kipp, went to high school nearby in Culbertson, Mont., became a cross-country runner and a horseman as a youth and worked as a construction worker and a farm hand. Then, in the 1940's, he went into the cattle business and began farm operations of his own.
        In addition to Mr. Bighorn, he is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Vera Bertelsen; two daughters, Doremis Bighorn of Brockton, Mont., and Sharon Vierra of San Lorenzo, Calif.; three other grandchildren; eight great-grandchildren; two sisters, Caroline Yellowrobe of Wolf Point, Mont., and Harriet Wellington of Sacaton, Ariz., and a brother, Anton of Marysville, Wash.
      