
        Paul Weston, a pop arranger, conductor and composer who was one of the inventors of modern mood music, died on Friday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84.
        During a career that spanned nearly 50 years, Mr. Weston worked as an arranger and conductor for many artists, including Rudy Vallee, Dinah Shore and Jo Stafford, whom he married in 1952. He was a founder of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences and served as its first national president.
        Among the hit songs he wrote were the popular standards ''I Should Care'' and ''Day by Day,'' collaborating on both with Sammy Cahn and Axel Stordahl. They became major hits for Frank Sinatra in the mid-1940's. The novelty ''Shrimp Boats,'' written with Paul Mason Howard, was a Top 10 hit for Ms. Stafford in 1951.
        With his wife, Mr. Weston also recorded four classic albums of musical parody under the pseudonyms Jonathan and Darlene Edwards. Accompanied by Mr. Weston's deliberately rinky-dink arrangements, Ms. Stafford's comic alter ego, Darlene,  affected a hard, countryish twang, hitting many wrong notes as she hilariously slaughtered well-known popular songs.
        Mr. Weston, whose original name was Paul Wetstein, was born in  Springfield, Mass. While a student at Dartmouth, he played in a college band and in 1934 sold his first arrangement to Joe Haymes's orchestra. His work was heard by Rudy Vallee, who engaged him as a freelance arranger. When Tommy Dorsey took over the Haymes band in 1935, Mr. Weston became an official arranger for the next five years, writing the band's arrangements for ''Song of India, ''Star Dust'' and ''Night and Day.''
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Weston branched out as a freelancer, working with Lee Wiley, Dinah Shore and the Bob Crosby Orchestra. His band arrangements for the 1942 film  ''Holiday Inn,'' with Bing Crosby, led to other work for Paramount.
        Then, in 1944, Mr. Weston became musical director for the fledging Capitol Records. The following year he put out a groundbreaking collection, ''Music for Dreaming,'' which  combined melodic strings with a big-band sound.
        It was the first of many albums in a style that was dubbed ''mood music,'' a term with which Mr. Weston was never comfortable.
        In 1950, Mr. Weston switched to Columbia Records, where he recorded instrumental albums and arranged and conducted for Doris Day,  Rosemary Clooney and Frankie Laine, as well as Ms. Stafford. After 1954, he worked regularly on television and was NBC-TV's musical director for five years.
        He also continued to accompany  singers, one high point being ''Ella Fitzgerald Sings the Irving Berlin Songbook.''
        After retiring from television in the 1970's, Mr. Weston was musical director of ''Disney on Parade'' for three years. He also ran Corinthian Records, the company that distributed his and Ms. Stafford's Capitol and Columbia albums.
        He composed two symphonic suites, one of which, ''Crescent City Suite,'' has been performed many times in New Orleans and elsewhere. He has had two Masses and many hymns published by the Gregorian Institute of America.
        In addition to his son, Tim, Mr. Weston is survived by his wife; a daughter, Amy, and four grandchildren.
      