
        Leo Isacson, who flabbergasted political experts in 1948 when he won a Bronx Congressional seat as the candidate of the American Labor Party, died on Saturday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 86.
        Mr. Isacson, who had lived in retirement in Fort Lauderdale in recent years, had been suffering from cancer, said his daughter, Dale Bloom, of Rye Brook, N.Y.
        Mr. Isacson's tenure in Congress was brief but eventful. It began on Feb. 17, 1948, when he won a special election from the 24th District after the incumbent was named a judge. It effectively ended the following November when he was beaten by the more mainstream politicians he had confounded.
        The favorite in the special election was a Democrat, Karl Propper, who was backed by Mayor William O'Dwyer, Eleanor Roosevelt and other party luminaries. But Mr. Isacson crushed the Democrat, gathering 22,697 votes to 12,598 for Mr. Propper. The Liberal Party candidate got 3,800 votes, and the Republican standard-bearer 1,500.
        The political post-mortems found several reasons for Mr. Isacson's triumph. His district was a poor one and ethnically mixed -- fertile ground, it seemed, for an American Labor candidate. Mr. Isacson had been a member since the party was founded in 1936 to advance the cause of trade unions.
        Then, too, about half the people in the district were Jewish, and Mr. Isacson was an early and vigorous supporter of the new country of Israel.
        Perhaps just as important, Mr. Isacson concentrated his law practice on labor and tenant cases, making him well known to many district residents even before he and his wife, Rose, went door to door ringing doorbells.
        Nor was he a political neophyte. He had been elected to the New York State Assembly on the Republican and American Labor Party tickets in 1944. A year later, he ran unsuccessfully on the American Labor Party line for Bronx borough president.
        Seeking re-election to the Assembly in 1946, he was denied endorsement by Republican leaders, so he ran in the Republican and Democratic primaries. He lost in the primaries and lost in the general election, when he ran only on the American Labor Party line.
        Mr. Isacson's victory in February 1948 delighted Henry A. Wallace, the Progressive Party candidate for President, and it alarmed supporters of President Harry S. Truman, who had his hands full with his Republican rival, Thomas E. Dewey. Or so the polls said.
        Once in office, Mr. Isacson opposed the Marshall Plan and the peacetime draft. He was one of three Congressmen to oppose legislation to increase the size of the Air Force, and he pushed for immediate recognition of Israel.
        Barely a month into his term, Mr. Isacson became the first Congressman ever to be denied a passport by the State Department. He had wanted to go to Paris for an international congress on the future of Greece, where Communist guerrillas were trying to overthrow the Government.
        One reason for the State Department's unease may have been Mr. Isacson's friendship with Vito Marcantonio, a former American Labor Party state chairman who was then a Congressman from East Harlem and who was widely thought to have far-left views.
        Mr. Isacson (like Mr. Marcantonio) denied any links to Communism. But in 1948, the Republican, Democratic and Liberal Parties formed a coalition to unseat him. Mr. Isacson's opponent, Isidore Dollinger, charged that much of the incumbent's support came from Communist-dominated unions. Mr. Isacson lost, 74,594 votes to 44,257.
        After leaving office, Mr. Isacson lived for about 25 years in Eastchester. He continued to practice law and became active in the Democratic Party. In recent years, he was an adjunct professor of political science at the Institute of Retired Professionals at Nova University in Fort Lauderdale.
        His first wife, Rose, died eight years ago. Another daughter, Jill Blanchard, was killed in her New Rochelle home in 1981 in a crime that remains unsolved.
        Mr. Isacson is survived by his wife, Violet; his daughter; two sisters, Ruth Thielle of Fort Lauderdale and Regina Hymowitz of Great Neck, L.I., five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      