
        William J. Curran, a law professor who pioneered the development of health law as a separate and proliferating legal specialty, died on Saturday at his home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 71 and had been professor of legal medicine at the Harvard Schools of Medicine and Public Health.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        If Mr. Curran was not the father of modern health law, he was more than a midwife. As a widely recognized specialist, he not only wrote and lectured widely on the subject and produced the field's foundation textbook, ''Law and Medicine,'' he virtually invented the field itself.
        Indeed, Mr. Curran's expertise rested less on his mastery of ancient legal principles than on his role in creating the body of modern law that became his specialty.
        In Masschusetts, whose laws became models for national and international legislation, he left his fingerprints on so many statutes dealing with issues like psychiatric commitments, qualifications of physicians' assistants, minimum professional standards for medical examiners, patients' rights and drug addiction rehabilitation, that the state's health and medical laws could be called the Curran Code.
        His influence extended overseas through his long association with the World Health Organization. Among other things, he drafted the organization's guidelines for legislation for treatment of drug and alcohol addiction, created and directed its collaborating center on law in Boston and served as a ''temporary'' adviser to the organization from 1976 until his death.
        A native of Boston, where his father was a home builder, Mr. Curran finished his Army service in World War II with only the vaguest of career plans. It was while studying at Boston College on the G.I. Bill that one of his teachers, impressed with Mr. Curran's reasoning abilities, suggested he try the law.
        He did just that, accelerating his studies and finishing at the top of his class when he received a law degree in 1950.
        Mr. Curran, who worked in a law office just long enough to realize he would rather teach than practice, received a master's degree in law from Harvard in 1951, then taught law at the University of Santa Clara and the University of North Carolina before returning to Boston in 1953 to hold a series of tenured positions, first at Boston College, at Boston University and then at Harvard.
        Early in his career, Mr. Curran became fascinated with the wide-ranging potential for interaction between law and medicine. By 1957 he had given so much thought and study to the thorny legal issues raised by medical developments like organ transplants and medical experiments on children that he began writing a regular column, ''Law-Medicine Notes,'' for The New England Journal of Medicine.
        His comments were so popular and were considered so indispensible to practicing physicians that a collection of the columns became the first book the journal ever published.
        Mr. Curran, who created a similar column for The American Journal of Public Health in 1972, provided an institutional foundation for his work in 1958 when he moved from Boston College to Boston University and started the Law-Medicine Research Institute.
        By 1967 he was considered such a towering figure in such a critically important new field that Harvard, where he had been giving law lectures since 1955, lured him away with the offer of a joint appointment in the  Schools of Medicine and Public Health.
        Although he was in the forefront of virtually every new medical-legal issue, Mr. Curran was rarely an impassioned partisan in the acrimonious debates touched off by developments like the use of surrogate mothers and testing for the AIDS virus.
        Instead he brought a lawyer's passion for order to the debates, arguing, for example, for the need for clear, reasonable rules.
        He is survived by his wife, Doris; a daughter, Sheila, of Boston; three sons, Brian, of Princeton, N.J., Keith, of Manhattan and Geoffrey, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, Robert, of Billerica, Mass., and one grandson.
      