
        Theodore Sieh, the founder and artistic director of the enterprising Bel Canto Opera Company, known for its shoestring productions of unusual operatic works, died on Saturday at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Eleanor.
        Given his upbringing, Mr. Sieh's path to a career in opera was unusual. He was born on Hainan Island, China, on April 14, 1925, and served as a captain in the Nationalist Chinese Army from 1945-47. In pursuing a higher education, Mr. Sieh was drawn both to music and theology. He received a bachelor's degree from Chu Hai University in Hong Kong in 1952, later attending the Lutheran Seminary there.
        After emigrating to the United States in 1955, he studied music at the University of Michigan, and religion at Princeton Theological Seminary, and later attended the Juilliard School. His understanding of the bel canto operatic tradition was gleaned from his studies with the Italian tenor Tito Schipa, one of its great exponents.
        In 1969, believing that there were deserving older operas that were little known and young singers in need of opportunities, Mr. Sieh founded his company. For its first 10 years, Bel Canto Opera presented modestly staged performances in the meeting hall of the Madison Avenue Baptist Church on 31st Street, where the ambiance was cozy and the stage minuscule. In 1979 the company shifted its productions to Martin Luther King High School on Amsterdam Avenue on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        Bel Canto Opera presented such overlooked works as Auber's ''Manon Lescaut'' (1856), a work that has been dwarfed by repertory versions of the same story by Massenet and Puccini, and Paisiello's elegant and witty ''Barbiere di Siviglia,'' written in 1780, a hugely popular work until Rossini's version of the Beaumarchais comedy came along in 1816. In 1983 the company presented the world premiere of ''Tao Yuan,'' a fantasy play combining music and dance by the Chinese composer Sung Fu Yuan. Some of the singers Mr. Sieh gave early opportunities to were Alan Glassman and John Aler.
        Mr. Sieh won a following for his productions, which at first used only piano accompaniment, but later employed reduced instrumental ensembles. Commenting on the company in 1974, the critic Allen Hughes of The New York Times wrote that Mr. Sieh's makeshift productions usually presented ''singers of quality'' and on occasion were marked by ''considerable ingenuity and attractiveness.''
        Mr. Sieh left Bel Canto Opera in 1985, but came out of retirement to direct ''Lakme'' in 1991.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Catherine Birchard, both of Mamaroneck; two brothers, Tien Ren Xie and Tianen Xie of China; a sister, Tien Mei Xie of New York City, and a grandson.
      