
        William S. Vaughn, a former president and chairman of the Eastman Kodak Company, died at his home in Brighton, N.Y., on Friday. He was 93.
        Mr. Vaughn, whose career at Kodak spanned 45 years, was president of the company from 1960 to 1967 and chairman from 1967 to 1970, when he retired. He remained a board member until 1973.
        During his tenure at Kodak, he oversaw the company's expansion into petrochemicals, fibers and plastics, as well as the introduction, in 1963, of the Kodak Instamatic camera
        Mr. Vaughn, who was the last Kodak chairman to have personally known the company's founder, George Eastman, began his career at Kodak in 1928 in its development department.
        After stints with the company in London and Rochester, Mr. Vaughn went on a leave of absence in 1942 to work with the War Production Board in Washington. He returned to Kodak in 1943 as coordinator of postwar planning.
        In 1956, Mr. Vaughn was elected president and director of Eastman Chemical Products, a Kodak subsidiary. He was elected the seventh president of Eastman Kodak in 1960.
        During his career, Mr. Vaughn was on a number of corporate boards, including those of TRW, the Procter & Gamble Company and Lincoln First Banks.
        Mr. Vaughn was a native of Kansas City, Mo., and a longtime resident of Nashville. He graduated from Vanderbilt University and was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University.
        An active advocate and participant in the advancement of higher education, Mr. Vaughn was a trustee of Vanderbilt and of the University of Rochester and a member of the National Council of the United Negro College Fund.
        He was also a trustee of the George Eastman House, home of the International Museum of Photography, a member of the board of managers of the Eastman School of Music and a member of the advisory board of the Rochester Y.M.C.A.
        Mr. Vaughn's wife of 61 years, Elizabeth Harper Vaughn, died in 1989. He is survived by a brother, Houghton D. Vaughn of Nashville; two daughters, Helen Vaughn Meyer of Wichita, Kan., and Janice Vaughn Middlebrook of Boca Raton, Fla., 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      