
        Abram Games, whose powerful profusion of vivid posters cautioned, cajoled, delighted, educated and inspired the British home front during World War II, died in London on Aug. 27. He was 82.
        Mr. Games was widely recognized as a 20th-century master of graphic art. And as the British public discovered, his artistic motto wasn't ''maximum meaning, minimum means,'' for nothing.
        As Britain's first and only official war poster designer, he brought his brush to bear on everything from the need for personal hygiene to the campaign against careless talk.  Along the way he created more than 100 posters whose stark and compelling images burned themselves into the collective consciousness of a nation at war.
        A master of the visual pun, Mr. Games, a student of Dali and other Surrealists, was famous for his inspired use of trompe l'oeil. In his hands a simple garden spade would become the prow of a ship (''Dig for Victory''); in one of his earliest posters, urging soldiers to keep their feet clean, the C in ''clean'' was sprouting  toes. Perhaps his most famous wartime image, designed for a campaign against loose talk, showed a spiral emerging from a soldier's open mouth and spinning itself into a blood-red bayonet impaling three of his comrades.
        Another poster depicting a dead British soldier lying face down on a coil of barbed wire became almost the signature image of wartime horror.
        The son of a Latvian-born photographer and a seamstress, Abram Games was born in the East End of London in 1914, 10 years after his parents arrived in England. He had a checkered educational career, departing from one art school when he was told he had no artistic talent.
        After working as an assistant to his father he found work in a commercial art studio. But Mr. Games, who had a fierce, almost combative independence, was soon dismissed.  Setting up as a freelance artist at the age of 22, he won a series of commissions from public agencies and private corporations. He had barely begun to make a name for himself before war broke out in 1939.
        Mr. Games languished for a while as a hapless infantry private assigned to draw maps for training maneuvers, a task for which he found he was so ill-suited that, as he later recounted, ''I lost more convoys than any other draftsman.''
        His superiors agreed with his assessment. But after he submitted a recruiting poster, Mr. Games, whose work had previously impressed corporate executives working with the War Office, was assigned to do posters full time.
        Partly, perhaps, because the War Office had never had a full-time poster designer and had no experience in supervising one, Mr. Games was given virtually a free hand. Working with a small staff in a studio in the War Office attic, he accepted assignments from various branches of the service.
        His work was widely praised and won him a rapid series of promotions to captain. Eventually he even received the Order of the British Empire, in 1958.
        But not all of his wartime work found universal acceptance.
        At a time when the short skirts, dark stockings and high-heeled uniforms of the women's navy and air units were considered the epitome of wartime chic and served as a magnet for enlistments, Mr. Games was asked to produce a recruiting poster for the women's army unit known as the Army Training Service, which was widely seen as the preserve of the sensible shoes set.
        Using a 19-year-old model he later recalled as ''rather a corker,'' Mr. Games produced a simple image of a striking blond woman in an A.T.S. uniform. But after a female Member of Parliament complained that the image was too glamorous, the poster, dubbed ''the Blond Bombshell'' by the press and the public, was withdrawn. That touched off a gleeful competition among the nation's newspaper cartoonists to produce A.T.S. images homely enough to satisfy the lawmaker.
        Mr. Games later managed to offend Prime Minister Winston Churchill by producing a series of posters for a ''what we are fighting for campaign'' that contrasted the stark slums of wartime England with the bright promise of a socialist future.
        After the war he produced a wide variety of work for corporations and public agencies, including postage stamps for Israel.
        Mr. Games, a Londoner whose wife died in 1988, is survived by a son, Daniel, and two daughters, Sophie and Naomi.
        Correction:  October 12, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary of the British poster artist Abram Games on Sept. 27 and the caption for a picture of a Games poster misstated the full name of the British women's army unit in World War II known as A.T.S. It was the Auxiliary Territorial Service, not the Army Training Service.
      