
        Lieut. Gen. Pavel A. Sudoplatov, a legendary Soviet spymaster who plotted and carried out assassinations with cold-blooded efficiency and claimed to have engineered the theft of atomic secrets from the United States with the aid of four eminent scientists, died Tuesday at his home in Moscow. He was 89.
        General Sudoplatov had been suffering from vascular disease and recently had a stroke, Moscow newspapers reported.
        General Sudoplatov began his rise in the state-security system in the 1930's and attained the rank of lieutenant general in the K.G.B. But in 1953, after Stalin's death, he was arrested along with Lavrenti Beria, the much-feared head of the secret police, and spent 15 years in the  gulag. He was not officially ''rehabilitated'' until 1969.
        General Sudoplatov left a remarkable legacy. He was a master of the art of ''silent'' elimination of enemies of the Soviet state -- silent in the sense of untraceable but not necessarily noiseless. In his memoirs, he recalled killing a luncheon companion with a bomb in 1938.
        The general also wrote of organizing a unit to hunt down and kill Leon Trotsky, one of the architects of the Russian Revolution with whom Stalin had grown deeply disenchanted because they disagreed about the future of Communism. Trotsky was killed in a suburb of Mexico City on Aug. 20, 1940.
        General Sudoplatov told of those and other deeds in ''Special Tasks: The Memoirs of an Unwanted Witness -- a Soviet Spymaster,'' written with his son, Anatoli, and Jerrold and Leona Schecter. Mr. Schecter is a former Moscow bureau chief for Time magazine.
        Published by Little, Brown & Company in 1994, ''Special Tasks'' caused a sensation because of the general's detailed assertions that the Soviet Union had obtained atomic secrets with the aid of J. Robert Oppenheimer, the director of the Manhattan Project's laboratory at Los Alamos, N.M., and Niels Bohr, Enrico Fermi and Leo Szilard, three other physicists with central roles in the development of the atomic bomb.
        General Sudoplatov said that Oppenheimer and the other scientists passed the secrets to people they knew to be Soviet agents and that they did so both because they wanted to help the Soviet Union defeat Hitler and because they believed that spreading knowledge of the secrets of making nuclear bombs would promote world peace.
        The general's assertions outraged many American scientists, some of whom cited examples of what they said were unambiguous and provable errors of fact. The Federal Bureau of Investigation said after a 1995 investigation that it had found no ''credible evidence'' to back up the general's claims. The Russian Foreign Intelligence Service agreed, stating that General Sudoplatov's allegations ''do not correspond to reality.'' The Schecters stood by their work, however.
        But the events in General Sudoplatov's career about which there is little or no dispute make a fascinating, if sometimes chilling, story.
        Born in the town of Melitopol, Ukraine, in 1907, Pavel Anatolievich Sudoplatov joined the Red Army at the age of 12, when it was battling not only the pro-czarist, anti-revolutionary White Army but also Ukrainian nationalist forces.
        When he was 14, his Red Army unit was depleted by losses and needed a telephone operator and decoding  clerk in its intelligence division, ''and that is how my career in the security service began,'' the general wrote in his memoirs.
        As a young agent in 1938, he was summoned by Stalin, who wanted to get rid of Yevhen Konovalets, a Ukrainian nationalist leader with whom Pavel Sudoplatov was well acquainted.
        Stalin asked the young agent, ''What are the personal tastes of Konovalets?'' who was then in exile in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
        ''Konovalets is overly fond of chocolate candies,'' Pavel Sudoplatov replied.
        Stalin suggested he think about that. The agent did, and supervised the design of a box of chocolates rigged with a bomb set to go off half an hour after the box was changed from a vertical to a horizontal position. He met the Ukrainian nationalist for lunch, set the chocolates on the table as a gift and said good-bye, stopping long enough to buy a light raincoat and hat and to hear the bomb go off.
        General Sudoplatov told of arranging the killing of Trotsky by cultivating Communist sympathizers in Mexico, including some who had fought against Francisco Franco's fascist forces in the Spanish Civil War. ''For us, enemies of the state were personal enemies,'' he wrote.
        The general said he personally selected Ramon Mercader, a civil war veteran, to do the killing. Mercader drove a pick-ax into Trotsky's head. The assassin spent two decades in a Mexican prison and was honored in Moscow upon his release.
        General Sudoplatov directed Communist underground activities against Nazi Germany in World War II. In his memoir, he speculated that Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who has been credited with rescuing many Hungarian Jews from the Holocaust, may have been killed in a Soviet prison in 1947.
        The general's wife, Emma, died in 1988. He is survived by his son, an economist in Moscow.
        ''Despite my rehabilitation, my medals have not been returned to me,'' the general complained at the end of his book. ''Let no one forget that I, too, have been a victim of political repression.''
        Correction:  September 30, 1996, Monday
        An obituary on Saturday about Pavel A. Sudoplatov, a former Soviet intelligence official, misstated the role of J. Robert Oppenheimer in the Manhattan Project to make an atomic bomb. He was the scientific director of the Los Alamos laboratory, where the first atomic bomb was made, not the head of the Manhattan Project.
      