
        Justin A. Stanley, a Chicago lawyer and a former president of the American Bar Association, died  Wednesday in Rush North Shore Medical Center in Skokie, Ill. He was 85 and lived in Wilmette, Ill.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, The Chicago Tribune reported.
        Mr. Stanley, who headed the bar association in 1976 and 1977, retired in 1991 as a senior partner at Mayer, Brown & Platt, a Chicago law firm founded in 1881. Later he did part-time work for the firm, and at the time of his death was chairman of the Supreme Court Historical Society, having been its president in 1987.
        He had a longstanding interest in professional practices in the legal world and headed the American Bar Association commission that produced a report in 1986 on ways to improve the legal profession. In 1988, he urged lawyers at a convention in Miami Beach to rededicate themselves to ''principle'' over ''profit'' and ''professionalism'' over ''commercialism.''
        In 1977, as head of the bar association, he declared: ''I have long felt the public was entitled to have more information about lawyers than it has traditionally received. At the same time, lawyers should not have an unrestricted right to advertise commercially, nor is it in the public interest to have such advertising.''
        Mr. Stanley's tenure as head of the association was a time of concern about overcrowding in the profession. He said at the time: ''Who decides how many lawyers there should be? The American Bar Association? Certainly not. We shouldn't manage such things.''
        ''In the 1960's, people thought law was where the action was,'' he went on. ''There was a sudden and dramatic increase in admissions to law school. I daresay that, too, will pass.''
        Commenting on a 1977 poll that found that a majority of 500 judges and lawyers considered opinions of the United State Supreme Court to be  too long and confusing, Mr. Stanley said: ''I don't find them confusing. But their length distresses me as much as the length of briefs distressed the judges.''
        In the decade before he became the association's president, Mr. Stanley spent much time on bar association matters. He also continued his practice, which included representing large utilities and real estate developers, small companies and individuals, in estate planning.
        He was born in Leesburg, Ind., graduated in 1933 from Dartmouth College and earned his law degree in 1937 from Columbia. He served as head of the Chicago Bar Association in 1967 and 1968.
        Mr. Stanley is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Helen Fletcher; a daughter, Melinda Stanley Douglas of Denver, and three children who live in the Chicago area: another daughter, Janet Stanley Hoffman, and two sons, Justin A. Jr., and Harlan Fletcher Stanley. He is also survived by six grandchildren.
      