
        Shusaku Endo, a leading Japanese novelist who wrote about faith and faithlessness, East and West, heritage and modernity, died yesterday at Keio University Hospital in Tokyo. He was 73 and lived in Tokyo.
        The cause was complications of hepatitis, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Endo was born in Tokyo and grew up partly in China. When he was 11, a Roman Catholic aunt persuaded him to be baptized. After World War II, during which ill health kept him out of the fighting, he attended Keio University and went to Lyons, France, to study French Catholic authors' writing. In time he was called modern Japan's most distinguished Catholic novelist.
        The British novelist Graham Greene, also a Catholic, hailed him as ''one of the finest living novelists.'' Mr. Endo was considered a contender for the 1994 Nobel Prize in Literature, but it went to another Japanese writer, Kenzaburo Oe.
        Mr. Endo also wrote plays on religious themes, was a humorist and won numerous important literary prizes in Japan.
        His novel ''Deep River'' (New Directions, 1995) accompanies soulless modern Japanese voyagers to the Ganges River in India, where they come to know the humanity and the sufferings of some who have faith. His writing in that work was praised by the psychiatrist Robert Coles, in a review in The New York Times Book Review, as ''a soulful gift to a world he keeps rendering as unrelievedly parched.''
        Appraisals of the role of Christianity in Mr. Endo's writing have differed. Dr. Coles noted that in an epigraph to ''Deep River,'' Mr. Endo ''by implication dismisses those critics who have made much of his relatively unusual situation as a Christian intellectual living in a nation far from the West.''
        But the British critic John Gross wrote in 1988 that with Mr. Endo, as with the Japanese author who is the hero of the Endo novel ''Scandal'' (Random House, 1988), ''his Catholicism colors everything he writes.''
        In that book, the hero goes on a quest in the red-light district of Tokyo, seeking to learn how a lewd portrait of him (or of a Doppelganger) was put on exhibition. He comes to conclude that ''deep in the hearts of men lay a blackness they themselves knew nothing about.'' Mr. Gross wrote that he found the book ''extremely gripping.''
        Over the years, critics repeatedly said Mr. Endo was the Japanese author whose works were the most comprehensible to readers in the West, possibly because his Catholicism brought Western traditions to bear on his thinking.
        His novel ''Silence,'' (Taplinger, 1969) was about a young Portuguese missionary in the time of the persecution of Japanese Christians early in the 17th century. The novelist John Updike has called that book ''somber, delicate and startlingly empathetic.''
        Mr. Endo is survived by his wife, Junko, and a son, Ryunosuke.
      