
        David M. Solinger, a lawyer and art collector who became the first president of the Whitney Museum of American Art from outside the Whitney family, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        A third-generation New Yorker, Mr. Solinger was the son of Maurice Solinger, head of a company that merged with Swift & Co., the meat packers. He graduated from Cornell University and Columbia Law School and was a senior partner in Solinger and Gordon, the Manhattan law firm, in which he remained active until two years ago.
        As a lawyer, Mr. Solinger represented artists including Louise Nevelson, Hans Hoffman and Franz Kline. He was also one of the first lawyers to develop an expertise in advertising, radio and television law, a subject about which he wrote and lectured extensively.
        Mr. Solinger was passionate about art. An amateur painter, he took classes on Saturdays at the Art Students League in Manhattan during the 1940's.
        ''Painting wakes you up,'' he once said. ''Lawyers need this relaxation.  Law is precise, it doesn't give the imagination much sway. That's where painting comes in.''
        In 1937 Mr. Solinger married Hope Alva Gimbel, the daughter of Bernard Gimbel, the department store magnate. The couple were divorced in 1978, and he married Betty Ann Besch.
        In 1961 he was elected a trustee of the Whitney Museum, and in 1966 he succeeded Flora Whitney Miller as president. Mr. Solinger transformed the museum from a small, family-run place into a prestigious international institution. In 1963 he led a drive to acquire a site on Madison Avenue and 75th Street and to build the landmark gray granite building by Marcel Breuer that is the museum's home today. In 1973 Mr. Solinger was also instrumental in the opening of the Whitney's first branch museum, at 55 Water Street in lower Manhattan.
        A collector of 20th-century art, he assembled a collection of more than 150 works including 8 Klees, 9 Dubuffets and 4 Giacomettis as well as works by Leger, Miro, Kline, de Kooning, and Kandinsky and a 1927 Picasso. He never sold a painting, but he donated many to institutions like Cornell, the Whitney and the Museum of Modern Art.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Faith Sommerfield of Greenwich, Conn., and Lynn Stern Lang of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      