
        Francis L. Loewenheim, a longtime Rice University professor who was an authority on modern diplomatic history, died on Oct. 17 at the Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 69.
        His death was announced yesterday by Rice University. The immediate cause was liver failure, and he had heart trouble, said Ira D. Gruber, another history professor at Rice. Professor Loewenheim stopped teaching after two heart attacks in 1991 but he kept on doing research and some writing.
        Professor Loewenheim retired this past summer from Rice, whose faculty he joined in 1959 after working in the Historical Division of the Department of State in 1958 and 1959. Earlier he taught at Princeton and elsewhere, and he had a special interest in Germany.
        He and Gordon A. Craig, the eminent authority on German history, were the co-editors of ''The Diplomats: 1939-1979,'' (Princeton, 1994), which Sir Nicholas Henderson, a former British Ambassador to the United States, called, in a review in The Times of London, ''a rich quarry with many varied seams in which someone who is interested in the interplay of nations can pick and choose, their prejudices often happily confirmed and their horizons invariably widened.''
        Professor Craig, who is retired from Stanford's faculty, said yesterday that Professor Loewenheim, whom he knew for more than four decades, ''was absolutely passionate about the study of European and American diplomatic history.''
        ''He had great gifts of analysis and precision of thought -- and complete command of the literature of the subject.''
        Professor Loewenheim was also a co-editor of the book ''Roosevelt and Churchill: Their Secret Wartime Correspondence'' (1975, Da Capo)), which was was applauded by Drew Middleton, the military correspondent of The New York Times, when it appeared. ''Here is material for 20 histories,'' he wrote. ''This is by far the most revealing report on how a war was won and a peace was lost at the summit that we are likely to get.''
        Earlier, Professor Loewenheim was the sole editor of ''Peace or Appeasement? Hitler, Chamberlain and the Munich Crisis'' (1965), which another critic ) called an ''excellent, exciting and useful book,'' containing ''the essential documents of the Munich crisis, as well as many personal memoirs and historians' appraisals''  and a fine introduction by its editor.
        Professor Loewenheim caused a stir in 1979 when he reported, in The Houston Chronicle, that Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, in secret parts of a World War II diary that were supposed to have been destroyed, had characterized Gen. Douglas MacArthur as a ''baby'' and an ''uncertain factor'' who ''likes his bootlickers.'' Professor Loewenheim wrote that he had found the 22-page typescript of the suppressed section of the diary among personal papers at the Eisenhower Library in Abilene, Kan.
        Professor Loewenheim was also the editor of ''The Historian and the Diplomat'' (1967). His many writings included contributions to a dozen books and almost 600 articles in roughly 50 newspapers in the United States, Canada and Britain, including The Times.
        A physician's son, he was born in Nuremberg, Germany, and came to the United States with his parents in 1934, the year after Hitler took power. He grew up in Cincinnati and received bachelor's and master's degrees in history from the University of Cincinnati and his doctorate in 1952 from Columbia.
        Professor Loewenheim had homes in Houston and Cincinnati.
        He is survived by a brother, Fred Loewenheim of Cincinnati.
      