
        Herbert M. Singer, a lawyer and philanthropist who supported community and medical causes in New York over 40 years, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89.
        Mr. Singer was to have been honored last night at a United Hospital Fund dinner for his leadership at the Beth Israel Medical Center and his work on behalf of North General Hospital. He was president emeritus and a trustee of Beth Israel, a role that had become a family tradition. His father, Saul Singer, was president of the Beth Israel board in the late 1920's.
        Mr. Singer also was a trustee of the United Hospital Fund of New York and past chairman of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, as well as founder and president emeritus of the Jewish Communal Fund of New York, a director of the UJA-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and a director of the 14th Street-Union Square Local Development Corporation.
        The Union Square agency honored him several weeks ago for his role in  revitalizing the neighborhood.
        His philanthropies included the Central Park Conservancy and Lincoln Center. A member of the executive committee of the Rockefeller University Council, Mr. Singer was a major figure in bringing together Beth Israel and the university in a research-sharing arrangement.
        Among his contributions to medical science was the Singer Collaborative Research Fund, which he established at Beth Israel.
        A partner in the law firm of Singer Netter Dowd & Berman in New York since 1983, Mr. Singer specialized in corporate law. In his best-known case, he was a lead lawyer in a landmark suit brought by the Loft Candy Company in 1938 against its chief executive. The executive had bought Pepsi-Cola stock for himself after having been approached by Pepsi.
        Although he had paid for the stock with his own money, Loft sued, arguing that he had been approached as an executive of Loft and that the stock should have been bought on the corporation's behalf. Delaware courts agreed in a decision that helped define corporate officers' fiduciary reponsibilities.
        Mr. Singer was named chairman of the executive committee and a director of Pepsi in 1939, a position  he held until 1953.
        He had also been associated with Levien, Singer & Neuberger and Singer, Corwin & Bobrow.
        Mr. Singer was born in Far Rockaway, Queens. He graduated from Columbia College in 1926 and the Columbia Law School in 1928.
        He was married in 1945 to Nell Hess of Brooklyn, who survives. Also surviving are two sons, Peter Lawrence Singer of Jerusalem and Steven Saul Singer of Phoenix; a brother, Edwin Singer of Corpus Christi, Tex., and two sisters, Roslyn S. Gumbinner and Hortense S. Ginsberg of New York City.
      