
        The Rev. Eugene Stockwell, a Methodist missionary and leader in international church work, died on Tuesday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Margaret, said.
        Dr. Stockwell, who grew up in Buenos Aires, belonged to a family prominent in Christian missionary work in China and in Latin America.
        He was an associate general secretary of the National Council of Churches from 1972 to 1984, leading its division of overseas ministries, which then included the main Protestant refugee and relief agency, Church World Service. From 1984 to 1989 Dr. Stockwell directed the Commission on World Mission and Evangelism for the World Council of Churches in Geneva.
        In 1972, when China was just beginning to admit American visitors, he was a member of a delegation to that country, where an uncle, the Rev. Olin Stockwell, was a well-known missionary earlier in the century.
        Eugene Stockwell also took part in missions investigating questions of human rights violations in Uruguay, Argentina, Cambodia and Nicaragua.
        In 1979 he traveled to Bangladesh as a member of President Jimmy Carter's Presidential Commission on World Hunger and was an adviser to the United States delegation to the United Nation's Conference on Agrarian Reform and Rural Development held in Rome.
        In 1975, after revelations that the Central Intelligence Agency had used church workers overseas as sources for information, Dr. Stockwell urged churches to bar cooperation between missionaries and American intelligence agencies.  Such ties threatened the credibility and safety of missionaries, he warned.
        ''Church bodies overseas have the right to expect that the relationships of United States religious personnel to those churches will be solely at the service of common worldwide Christian mission and will not be used in any way for the purpose of one government,'' he said.
        In February 1980, as an official of the National Council of Churches, he condemned death-squad killings in El Salvador and endorsed a plea by  Oscar Romero, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of San Salvador, that United States military assistance be suspended. The Archbishop was assassinated later that year.
        Eugene Stockwell, born in Boston on Sept. 28, 1923, grew up in Buenos Aires, where his father, the Rev. B. Foster Stockwell, founded the Union Theological Seminary. Eugene Stockwell graduated from Oberlin College and received a law degree from Columbia University in 1948, then began to practice law in New York City.
        Betty Thompson, a longtime fellow worker with Dr. Stockwell at the Methodist Board of Missions and the National Council of Churches, said Dr. Stockwell told how he had met the Rev. John R. Mott one day in Pennsylvania Station.
        A great pioneer in worldwide missionary efforts and in ecumenical cooperation, Mr. Mott had won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1946. He had also worked closely with Dr. Stockwell's father. Now he pressed the young man on why he was pursuing a career in law rather than mission work. That conversation, Dr. Stockwell told Ms. Thompson, led to his enrolling at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where he received a Master of Divinity degree in 1952.
        He and his wife, Margaret, then served as Methodist missionaries in Uruguay in the 1950's, leading to Dr. Stockwell's post as Latin America area secretary for the denomination's Board of Missions.
        The author of many magazine articles, he also wrote a guide to mission work widely used throughout the Methodist Church. After retiring from the World Council of Churches in 1989, he returned to Buenos Aires to head the seminary that his father had founded. In July 1995, he and his wife, still United Methodist Church missionaries, returned to the United States on medical leave.
        Dr. Stockwell is survived by his wife; a daughter, Martha Stockwell-Goering, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio;  three sons, William J. Stockwell, of Lexington, Va., Robert F. Stockwell, of Atlanta, and Richard R. Stockwell, of Columbia, S.C., and seven grandchildren.
      