
        Dr. Richard W. Porter, an orchid-growing, clarinet-playing electrical engineer turned rocket scientist, who supervised the nation's first venture into space, died on Sunday while traveling by train from Washington to New York. He was 83 and lived in North Branford, Conn.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        For a nation that had swept to victory in World War II barely a dozen years earlier with a spectacular scientific and technological flourish, the waning days of 1957 and the first month of 1958 had been a period of gloom in the United States, the very nadir of the cold war with the Soviet Union.
        On Oct. 14, 1957, the supposedly technologically laggard Soviet Union had shocked the United States and stunned the world by launching the world's first orbital satellite, a 184-pound craft known as Sputnik, whose constant stream of radio beeps seemed to taunt the American scientific community and the United States itself.
        For the United States, whose own ambitious space program had suffered a series of delays, forcing what had been described as an indefinite postponement of the launching of a satellite, the affront and the shock were magnified when the Soviet Union launched a second Sputnik on Nov. 3. The United States had hoped to launch its first spacecraft in September 1957.
        Then on Feb. 1, 1958, 83 days after the first Sputnik had rocketed into space, a 44-year-old American scientist with an unruffled demeanor and a crown of snow white hair, provided the reassuring news that the tide had turned.
        Addressing a gathering of reporters in Washington, Dr. Porter announced that the night before an Army Jupiter-C rocket had rumbled off a launching pad at Cape Canaveral, Fla., and propelled a 10-pound satellite known as Explorer 1 1,700 miles into space and into a continuous orbit around the earth.
        Dr. Porter had the honor of making the announcement because of his role as the unpaid head of a panel of scientists that had been put in charge of the nation's space program as part of the International Geophysical Year, an 18-month period of wide-ranging study of the earth that had begun on July 1, 1957.
        But as he puffed calmly on his ever-present pipe, Dr. Porter knew that the real scientific heroes of the day were a group of German scientists led by Wernher von Braun, the developer of the V-2 rocket, who had designed and built the Jupiter rocket.
        Dr. Porter could take more than vicarious pride in his subordinates' accomplishments. After all it was he who had led the team of American scientists who had followed the invasion forces ashore in Normandy, across France and into Germany after D-day to find, interrogate and recruit the very scientists who now basked in the limelight.
        The mission had not been without peril. In the confusion of victory over Germany in 1945, his interviews with Dr. von Braun and other German scientists had been conducted in a sector of Germany assigned to the Soviet Union by Allied agreement. And in the turmoil of the day, one group of scientists had been evacuated just hours before the scheduled arrival of Soviet forces.
        Dr. Porter, a native of Salina, Kan., who graduated from the University of Kansas before studying at Yale on a General Electric fellowship and receiving his doctorate in 1937, spent his entire career with General Electric.
        Supervising development of aircraft equipment during the war, he devised important fire-control systems used by B-29's and what turned out to be an even more important development, the first military and commercial applications of amplidyne generators, devices for regulating and controlling electrical power.
        It was this work that led G.E. to put him in charge of the development of guided missiles when the company won an Army contract in 1944.
        Dr. Porter, who made his mission to Germany as part of the project, had no previous experience with rockets, but over the next decade he became one of the nation's leading experts in the field, as well as something as visionary. In 1949, for example, he predicted the use of orbiting weather satellites.
        By the time he was put in charge of the space program in the mid 1950's, Dr. Porter was an experienced scientific administrator known both as an accomplished musician who had played clarinet for the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra and as a master gardener who made orchids bloom in profusion.
        Dr. Porter, whose wife, Edith, died in June, is survived by two daughters, Mary Elizabeth of Fairfield, Conn., and Susan Beffel of Reston, Va.; a son, Thomas of Burlington, Vt., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 16, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on Thursday about Dr. Richard W. Porter, a rocket scientist who supervised the nation's first space venture, misstated the date of the Soviet Union's launching of the Sputnik orbital satellite. It was Oct. 4, 1957, not Oct. 14.
      