
        William Prince, a stage, screen and television actor who appeared on Broadway in ''I Am a Camera'' opposite Julie Harris and in plays by Eugene O'Neill and Edward Albee, died on Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
        Mr. Prince was born in Nichols, N.Y., and attended Cornell University, which he left in his senior year to join a Federal Theater tour of ''The Taming of the Shrew.'' He served an apprenticeship with the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va., making his New York debut with the company in 1937 in its production of Max Reinhardt's ''Eternal Road.'' He then joined Maurice Evans's company, appearing in minor Shakespearean roles.
        His star began to rise after Eva Le Gallienne, responding to a pleading letter, gave him an audition for the  part of Richard in a revival of Eugene O'Neill's ''Ah, Wilderness!'' He got the part and caught the eye of the critics. His breakthrough came a year later, in 1942, with the role of Private Quizz West in Maxwell Anderson's play ''The Eve of St. Mark.'' He was signed to a Hollywood contract and appeared in ''Destination Tokyo,'' ''Objective Burma'' and ''Cyrano de Bergerac,'' the first of many films to come.
        Returning to Broadway, he took leading roles in ''John Loves Mary'' and ''Forward the Heart.'' He appeared as Orlando in ''As You Like It,'' with Katharine Hepburn, and as Christopher Isherwood in ''I Am a Camera.'' In 1963, he played Charles Marsden in the Actors Studio production of ''Strange Interlude.''
        Mr. Prince managed to squeeze dozens of television shows into his schedule beginning in the early 1950's. In addition to appearing frequently on ''Philco Playhouse'' and ''Armstrong Circle Theater,'' he played the title role on ''Young Doctor Malone'' from 1958 to 1963.
        He took leading roles in several plays by Edward Albee, beginning with ''The Ballad of the Sad Cafe'' in 1963. He appeared opposite Angela Lansbury in ''Counting the Ways'' and ''Listening'' in 1977, and in 1983 played the title role in ''The Man Who Had Three Arms.''
        He is survived by his wife, Augusta Dabney; a sister, Charlotte, of Orange, Mass.; two daughters, Liza Alldredge, of Claremont, Calif., and Dinah, of Brooklyn; two sons, Nicholas, of Manhattan, and Jeremy, of Warwick, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      