
        Harry Rosen, who founded Junior's Restaurant, the Brooklyn institution renowned for cheesecake so rich and creamy it made tough men swoon, died yesterday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 92.
        The cause was bladder cancer, said a son, Marvin Rosen.
        For almost 46 years, Junior's has anchored the intersection in downtown Brooklyn of Fulton Street, DeKalb Avenue and the Flatbush Avenue extension. The lively, brassy restaurant, whose orange booths and chairs could seat nearly 400 people, has been a magnet for politicians who came to make deals, journalists who came to meet politicians and moviegoers who came for refreshment. But above all, everyone came for the cheesecake.
        ''It was perfect, it was the platonic cheesecake, as smooth as alabaster,'' said Michael Stern, who with his wife, Jane, writes about American regional foods. ''If you think of great cheesecake, you think of New York cheesecake, and when you wanted great cheesecake in New York, you went to Junior's.''
        When Mr. Rosen opened Junior's on Nov. 4, 1950, it quickly became the place to go before seeing a show at one of the downtown theaters, like the Albee, the Fox and the Strand. After a Dodgers game, people would travel to Junior's on the Flatbush Avenue trolley. Later, it became a hangout for Brooklyn politicians.
        ''Guys like Meade Esposito would go in there and make judges in the back room,'' the writer Pete Hamill said.
        Even today, Junior's is an obligatory stop on the campaign trail. Bill Clinton ate cheesecake there in 1992, while Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, District Attorney Charles J. Hynes of Brooklyn and the Rev. Al Sharpton are among those who believe flashbulbs are just another kind of icing on the cheesecake.
        Mr. Rosen was born in 1904 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. At 13, he dropped out of school to work as a soda jerk. Before long, he opened his own sandwich shop in Manhattan, the Enduro, named after the equipment company that provided him with stainless steel.
        Eventually, he owned five Enduro sandwich shops, four in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn, on the site of Junior's. In the 1930's, Mr. Rosen sold his Manhattan branches to concentrate on the Brooklyn Enduro.
        ''It was a large bar with entertainment and a steakhouse,'' Marvin Rosen recalled. But after World War II, he said, his father decided he had to change with the times. He closed the Enduro, and after a year of renovation, Junior's was born.
        Mr. Rosen ran Junior's with his two sons, Marvin and Walter, a family arrangement that inspired the restaurant's name. ''Working with him was not a picnic,'' Marvin Rosen said. ''He was a tough, demanding man. He was a perfectionist.''
        He brought this perfectionist attitude to the creation of Junior's cheesecake, which he devised with the restaurant's head baker, Eigel Petersen.
        As Marvin Rosen remembers it, his father brought to Brooklyn cheesecakes he had tasted all over the country. ''My father was the type of man who, when he saw a product, would buy it and bring it back, even from Oshkosh, to examine it,'' he said.
        While Junior's was a full-service restaurant, offering corned beef, steaks and seafood carried by its fast-talking waiters, cheesecake gradually became its signature dish.
        And though Junior's is generally thought to be a product of earlier, more Runyonesque times, it was not until 1973, when Junior's won a cheesecake contest held by New York Magazine, that its claim to the world's cheesecake throne was finally made, Marvin Rosen said.
        Since then, Junior's has drawn a steady stream of tourists to Brooklyn for a taste, an exodus interrupted in 1981 by a fire that left the restaurant a scarred ruin. It took almost a year to repair, but, like an irrepressible souffle, Junior's rose again, reopening in 1982.
        Mr. Rosen retired in the mid-1970's, ceding control of the restaurant to his sons. Marvin and Walter Rosen now are turning the restaurant over to a third generation, Walter's sons, Kevin and Alan Rosen, who have added a mail-order cheesecake business.
        In addition to his two sons and two grandsons, Mr. Rosen is survived by his wife of 67 years, Ruth; a sister, Marcia, of Boca Raton, Fla.; seven other grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        Recipe of a Lifetime: Junior's Cheesecake
        1/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
        3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
        3 tablespoons sifted cornstarch
        30 ounces (3 3/4 large packages) cream cheese, softened
        1 large egg
        1/2 cup heavy (whipping) cream
        3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract.
        1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.  Generously butter the bottom and sides of an 8-inch springform pan.  Lightly coat the bottom of the pan with the graham cracker crumbs and refrigerate the pan.
        2. In a large bowl, combine the sugar and the cornstarch. Beat in the cream cheese. Beat in the egg. Slowly drizzle in the heavy cream, beating constantly. Add the vanilla and stir well.
        3. Pour the mixture into the prepared pan. Bake until the top is golden, 40 to 45 minutes. Cool in the pan on a wire rack for 3 hours.
        Yield: 8 to 10 servings.
        From ''New York Cookbook,'' by Molly O'Neill (Workman Publishing, 1992)
      