
        For 50 years, William Vickrey was the ultimate absent-minded professor, a brilliant eccentric using abstract economic theory to find solutions to everyday problems. When he won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science on Tuesday, he seemed finally to have a platform from which to make his ideas widely known.
        Television crews descended. His telephone rang incessantly. Admirers offered to set up meetings with people with the power to put his proposals to work. The world appeared once and for all to be ready to listen. And then, as suddenly as it had happened, it was over.
        Professor Vickrey, who was 82, was found slumped behind the wheel of his car on the Hutchinson River Parkway in Harrison, N.Y., on Thursday, just before midnight. He died, apparently of cardiac arrest, while driving to a conference in Cambridge, Mass., after a whirlwind three days of nonstop attention.
        Just hours earlier, sitting in the the tiny office at Columbia where he still went to work every day, encircled by the encroaching paper undergrowth of a well-lived academic life, Professor Vickrey had been asked how it felt to be getting a hearing after so many years. ''It feels swell,'' he sighed. ''Ahhhh, at last.''
        A man described by colleagues as so idiosyncratic and uninterested in material comfort that he barely knew how much he was paid, Professor Vickrey said that he cared far less about his half of the $1.12 million prize from the Bank of Sweden that he shared with James A. Mirrlees of Cambridge University than about what he called ''the bully pulpit'' it offered for his ideas.
        For he had devoted much of his energy over 60 years at Columbia to what he described as carrying economic theory to ''its ultimate logical conclusions,'' fashioning unorthodox solutions for such maddening problems as traffic congestion, crowded subways and bewildering taxes.
        He is also credited by other economists with having revolutionized the way they think about auctions, and with having done seminal work in many areas of public economics -- taxation, pricing in public utilities and urban transportation.
        ''He never drew attention to himself, he never cared where he published,'' said Ronald Findlay, the chairman of the economics department at Columbia and friend of 27 years. ''He was interested in propagating the ideas, not in getting credit for them.''
        Born in Victoria, British Columbia, the eldest son of a Canadian mother and American father, Professor Vickrey grew up in New York City and its suburbs. His father was executive secretary of Near East Relief, a nonprofit organization devoted to helping orphans from the Armenian holocaust.
        That experience marked him permanently, as did coming of age during the Depression. ''I was raised with the Armenian orphans on the breakfast table,'' he recently said. He said he had come to feel that any dollar he spent was a dollar not spent to help the orphans.
        During World War II, he did civilian public service as a conscientious objector. As a result of that experience, he became a Quaker. Asked about his political views, he said: ''Well, I have voted for Norman Thomas, if you want to know.'' He said he intended to vote for Ralph Nader for President.
        Professor Vickrey graduated from high school in Scarsdale at 16 and was sent to prep school for a year before enrolling at Yale. He majored in mathematics, figuring he knew enough of it already that he would have time for electrical engineering, sociology and his other interests.
        A Difficult Time Finding Acceptance
        It was on a weekend trip home to Scarsdale from New Haven by train that one of his most provocative ideas took root. Noticing how many seats were empty, he thought: What a waste. He figured that his fellow students would enjoy a trip to New York in off-peak hours if the railroad would drop the price to fill the seats.
        Out of that, he said this week, emerged many years later some of his proposals for so-called congestion pricing. If the price of traveling from place to place varied by time of day, toll-booth tie-ups would vanish, subways would run pleasantly full and people would waste less time.
        In 1959, for example, Professor Vickrey suggested that one way to control traffic in congested cities would be to equip every vehicle with a transponder, then monitor when and how often each vehicle entered and left the congested area and bill the owners for the so-called social cost of their trips. The fees would be highest during rush hour and diminish gradually at other times.
        Professor Vickrey went on to make similar proposals to dissipate congestion at bridges and tunnels and to relieve subway and bus overcrowding. He suggested that parking meter fees should vary by time of day and congestion level -- and even by the number of meters available that that moment.
        He had little luck, however, getting his ideas enacted. As he told it, he was given a hearing in 1959 before the chairman of a Congressional committee investigating what were called Washington metropolitan problems. He found that his transponder idea was politely ignored: ''There was generally a discreet silence.''
        But he published a paper on the subject and the idea turned up in the 1960's in a paper on road pricing put out by a commission in England. He was invited to England and given an audience with the Minister of Transport. ''I got on TV beside a trained dog act,'' he recalled.
        Since that time, though, Singapore has instituted a similar system. Something like it came close to fruition in Hong Kong, Professor Vickrey said. But at home, he suggested congestion pricing for Hudson River crossings to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in the 1970's and was again ignored.
        He suggested a new fare structure for the New York City subways in the early 1950's and also had no success. He spent two summers in Japan drawing up a plan for income tax reform that, he said, was rejected. He counted as ''a minor victory'' his role in 1947 in a new inheritance tax law for Puerto Rico.
        Influencing Thought On Auctions
        But much of his other work heavily influenced other economists. In particular, a paper he wrote in 1961 exploring the theory of auctions and and devising a new approach that became the cornerstone of much subsequent work in that field.
        ''It got people thinking about the different ways in which you can design an auction,'' Professor Findlay said. ''In the modern theory of auctions, on which a large number of very brilliant economists around the world are working, they all acknowledge the seminal influence of Vickrey 1961.''
        Though that work helped win him the Nobel Prize, Professor Vickrey described it on Thursday with characteristic self-deprecation as ''one of my digressions into abstract economics. At best, it's of minor significance in terms of human welfare.''
        Professor Vickrey first arrived at Columbia University as a graduate student in the mid-1930's. To save money, he was living at home. He would ride the train to the station at Park Avenue and 125th Street, then roller-skate across town, a practice he kept up until the late 1940's.
        At Columbia, he was admired but seen as truly eccentric. When he took a sabbatical at the Institute for Advanced Study in California in the late 1960's, he received an award he proudly displayed years later known as ''the Rip van Winkle award.''
        ''For deep, uninterrupted concentration while attending seminars,'' the handmade certificate stated. Asked recently about his qualifications, he said: ''Not only there but elsewhere, I have a reputation, not undeserved, for sitting with my eyes closed and possibly even dozing off.''
        What was more remarkable was that Professor Vickrey would suddenly stir and deliver ''the most cogent comment or blockbuster question of the whole discussion,'' as James Tobin, the economist and Nobel laureate, described it while introducing Professor Vickrey at an award ceremony in 1992.
        An 'Omnipresence' At Columbia
        Though Professor Vickrey retired from teaching and became an emeritus professor in 1982, he remained what one administrator called ''an omnipresence'' on the Columbia campus, publishing books and papers and slipping quietly into seminars and brown-bag lunches on every imaginable subject.
        Over the years, he found himself bounced into progressively smaller offices until he ended up three years ago on the eighth floor of a building on Amsterdam Avenue and 118th Street in a shoe box of an office that he cheerfully described as ''the world's biggest mess.''
        There were file cabinets topped with cardboard boxes piled as high as the ceiling, files spilled across the floor, prehistoric coffee cups, articles of clothing, broken eyeglasses, tins of evaporated skim milk, a half-dozen oversized but empty soda bottles and walls of sloping books.
        In the middle, in a space clear enough to allow his desk chair to roll six inches in any direction, Professor Vickrey would settle in daily, a large man with an expanding middle and wispy white hair, in a rumpled suit, its pockets stuffed with pens and occasionally papers.
        Jagdish Bhagwati, a professor of economics and friend who occupied the office two doors down, described Professor Vickrey as ''a man of shining honesty'' and a kind of innocence, a person who took problems like unemployment deeply to heart.
        In recent years, Professor Vickrey had become consumed with trying to fight what he called ''the mania for budget balancing,'' arguing to anyone who would listen that every $10 billion budget deficit cut would mean $10 billion less consumer purchasing power and thus less production and higher unemployment.
        He was an inveterate writer of letters to the editor; he said many never got published. But the sudden attention after the Nobel Prize had left him hopeful that an article, ''Fifteen Fatal Fallacies of Financial Fundamentalism,'' which he had sent to The New York Times Magazine, would see the light of day.
        Starting to Enjoy Sudden Popularity
        But for the time being, the Nobel Prize had happily robbed him of free time. From the moment the call from Stockholm woke him up at home in Hastings-on-Hudson on Tuesday at 6:30 A.M., his telephone had not stopped ringing with requests from people suddenly interested to hear what he had to say.
        There had been a press conference at Columbia at 11 A.M. at which he was mobbed by reporters, then several hours of interviews back to back, then a champagne reception in the economics department, then radio interviews and television appearances and requests for more constantly piling up.
        By Thursday afternoon, he was back in his office returning reporters' calls, enthusiastically elaborating on whatever anybody wanted to know. There was even a move afoot, he said, by someone he could not remember to arrange a meeting between him and city transit officials.
        He was planning, he said, to leave for Cambridge sometime before 11 P.M. About 11:45 P.M., the Westchester County Police received a call from a driver on the Hutchinson River Parkway reporting a car stopped in the right, northbound lane. When the police arrived, the man behind the wheel, Professor Vickrey, was not breathing. He was pronounced dead at St. Agnes Hospital at 12:43 A.M., said Detective William Rehm of the Westchester County Police.
        Dr. Louis Roh, a deputy medical examiner for the county, said in an interview yesterday that an autopsy found that Professor Vickrey had suffered from a mildly enlarged heart. He appeared to have died of sudden cardiac death brought on by an arrhythmia, or irregular heartbeat, Dr. Roh said.
        Whether the experiences of the previous three days might have triggered the problem is unclear. But Dr. Myron Weisfeldt, chairman of the department of medicine at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and a past president of the American Heart Association, said research strongly suggests that stress can precipitate sudden cardiac death.
        Shortly after dawn, Professor Findlay received a call from Professor Vickrey's wife, Cecile, who is his only surviving family member. ''It was, of course, absolutely devastating,'' he said, all the more so because just three days earlier, almost to the hour, he had called the Vickreys to congratulate them on the prize.
        ''It was going to provide him a new platform for his ideas,'' said Jonathan R. Cole, provost and dean of the faculties at Columbia, where plans are being made for a memorial service next week. ''And many of those ideas still bear real consideration and would have had a new life. They would have been part of a new drama. The denouement came too soon.''
      