
        Robert Andrew Hingson, a pioneer in the field of public health who made important contributions to anesthesia for safer, easier childbirth and to mass immunizations with the ''jet'' injection, died on Wednesday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Lake City, Fla.
        He was 83 and lived in Ocilla, Ga.
        The cause was complications of polymyositis, an inflammation of voluntary muscles akin to Lou Gehrig's disease, said the Brother's Brother Foundation of Pittsburgh.
        Dr. Hingson created the foundation in 1958 to expand basic health care and had served as the president of the volunteer, interfaith organization. Under his leadership, its mission broadened to include other types of aid. In the last four decades, the foundation has distributed $560 million worth of things like medical supplies, textbooks, seeds and food to 40 million people on five continents.
        But Dr. Hingson's fame was assured well before this relief work. His invention of continuous caudal -- posterior -- anesthesia and perfection of lumbar epidural anesthesia to prevent pain in childbirth earned him worldwide recognition.
        Both techniques are credited with reducing maternal and infant mortality around the world. Dr. Hingson began epidural and jet injections as a fledgling physician when he was the director of anesthesia at the United States Marine Hospital on Staten Island from 1941 to 1943.
        His jet injector speeded mass inoculations against many diseases, without needles or syringes. Hundreds of people could be inoculated in an hour, making the injector a vital tool in eradicating small pox.
        In 1962 Dr. Hingson led a team that immunized a million people against smallpox in Liberia. In 1967 his foundation vaccinated 846,000 people against smallpox in Costa Rica and immunized people there against epidemics of measles and polio.
        He also invented the Western Reserve Midget, a portable manual respirator that is easy to carry and delivers a brief general anesthetic.
        Dr. Hingson was the author of the textbooks ''Control of Pain in Childbirth'' and ''Anesthesia for Obstetrics'' and the co-author of ''Pitkins Conduction of Anesthesia.'' He wrote or contributed to about 150 scientific articles and organized the Education and Relief Foundation of the World Federation of Anesthesiologists.
        Robert Andrew Hingson, who was born in Anniston, Ala., graduated from the University of Alabama in 1935 and received his medical degree at Emory University in 1938. He then became an officer in the Public Health Service, serving as ship's doctor on Coast Guard and Navy vessels in the North Atlantic.
        He was later the director of research and anesthesia at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia and professor of anesthesiology at the University of Tennessee.
        Dr. Hingson was a professor of public health at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in 1973 when he began to devote himself full time to relief work with his foundation, before retiring in 1982. His honors came from many nations and included a President's Award for International Voluntarism in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Gussie Dickson Hingson; a daughter, Roberta Hingson, of Seneca, S.C.; four sons, Dickson J., of Los Angeles, Andrew T., of Westport, Conn., Ralph W., of Boston, and Luke L., of Pittsburgh; a brother, James M., of Greenbackville, Va., and four grandchildren.
      