
        Alvin P. Adams, an aviation executive who came of age in the Roaring Twenties and never outgrew the roar, died on Oct. 2 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        In a career in which he was The Wall Street Journal's first aviation specialist at 21, a vice president of a leading aviation investment company at 24, the president of an airline at 29, a major industry consultant at 34, a Pan Am executive at 45 and the point man in the American invasion of the European Airbus until he was 72, it would be tempting to conclude that Mr. Adams was simply an aviation man.
        That would be a mistake. As his own unpublished memoirs make clear, for all the time he put in as an aviation executive, Mr. Adams was first and foremost a man of his times. And those times were the 1920's.
        From the moment he and his Yale classmates began haunting the ''21'' Club and other New York speak-easies, jazz clubs and strip joints and entertaining European royalty and international high rollers during summertime tours with the Yale-Princeton jazz band, Mr. Adams, a banjo-playing amateur boxing champion, was the very embodiment of the flapper era: a man so devoted to the pursuit of wine, women and song that when the 20's ended he refused to let them go.
        Instead, he squared his shoulders, ordered a drink and kept the party going, first in New York, where the late-night jam sessions at his apartment became an indispensable feature of jazz age social life, attracting the likes of Art Tatum, Teddy Wilson, Marian McPartland and Dizzy Gillespie. It soon became clear that if God had not done it, F. Scott Fitzgerald would have had to invent him.
        Indeed, after his 1929 marriage to Elizabeth Miller, the daughter of the very well-to-do former Governor of New York, Nathan Miller, Mr. Adams followed the Fitzgerald script, extending his range to Long Island's fabled North Shore and turning his father-in-law's Oyster Bay estate into a Gatsby-like party pad.
        After 1934 his venue shifted to California, where aviation again was upstaged by high times.
        Yes, he put together an investment group that purchased the ailing Los Angeles-based Western Air Express Airlines, and yes, he transformed it into a streamlined modern air carrier and laid the groundwork for its expansion into Western Airlines.
        But typically, Mr. Adams, whose marriage ended in divorce, spent much of his time chasing girls with Howard Hughes, playing golf with W. C. Fields, palling around with Cab Calloway and William Randolph Hearst and dating actresses like Grace Kelly and Anne Baxter.
        For all his business achievements, Mr. Adams, who missed the clubby atmosphere of ''21,'' saw his chief California accomplishment as talking his friend Dave Chasen into opening a restaurant, going so far as to arrange its financing so he and Fields would have a place for their riotous weekly lunches.
        And in what was clearly his most momentous and lasting contribution to American aviation, he was a founder of Conquistadores del Cielo (Conquerors of the Sky), the shadowy all-male organization of top-level aviation executives whose continuing semi-annual conclaves in the rough are so secretive that it can only be assumed that when they get together at a western dude ranch  they laugh themselves silly.
        The son of a precocious Maryland-born banker (his father dropped out of Yale, went to Colorado to count the cattle securing a New York bank loan and ended up as the mayor of Grand Junction at the age of 21), Mr. Adams grew up there and in Denver. After he graduated from Exeter, a decline in the family fortunes left him so strapped that he played poker with wealthy classmates to help pay his way through Yale.
        An amateur boxing champion in what was the Golden Age of Sport, Mr. Adams kept his sporting interest alive largely through big-game hunting, personally endangering several species on four continents.
        Mr. Adams, who headed several aviation companies over the years, became a consultant in New York until 1951, when his Yale buddy Juan Trippe, the Pan Am founder, made him a senior vice president.
        While his duties included running the airline's Pacific division, Mr. Adams's major preoccupation seems to have been prodding the company into building its famous New York headquarters behind Grand Central Terminal. While the ostensible purpose of the building  was to give the airline a prestige flagship headquarters and profit from the New York real estate market, to Mr. Adams those were only excuses. The real reason for the building, it soon became clear, was to serve as a platform for a clubby aerie, the prestigious Sky Club he and Mr. Trippe established on the top floor of the 58-story building.
        The airline folded and Met Life bought the building, but at the Sky Club at least, the party Mr. Adams started in the 1920's continues full swing.
        Mr. Adams, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by two sons and a daughter from his first marriage, Nathan, of Alexandria, Va.; Alvin Jr, a former State Department official and Ambassador, and Edith Kiggen of New York; a daughter from his second marriage, Helen Vollmer of San Francisco, and five grandchildren.
      