
        Dr. Douglas Paul Torre, a New York dermatologist and pioneering cryosurgeon long affiliated with Cornell University Medical College, died on Sept. 21 at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Rowayton, Conn.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Stephen Smolewski, a friend and former research associate.
        Dr. Torre made his name as an innovator in the development of surgical instruments, procedures and applications. Dr. Torre and a small team at Cornell developed the field of dermatocryosurgery, taking the latest freezing techniques from the operating room to the treatment of skin disease in the doctor's office.
        Among other benefits, this resulted in lower costs, better cosmetic results and fewer side effects.
        Cryogenic surgery involves the selective exposure of tissues to extreme cold, often applying a probe containing liquid nitrogen, to destroy or eliminate abnormal cells.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Torre was a principal researcher in a three-year Cornell study of how extreme-cold treatments, recently introduced to brain and eye surgery and the treatment of warts and other skin lesions, could be improved to fight skin cancer and precancerous lesions.
        The study found that relatively painless cryosurgery was not only a substitute for conventional surgery but a preferred treatment for many skin conditions, especially since it requires no anesthetics and rarely leaves scars. Success of the project led to further studies of the reaction of the skin to cryogenic treatment, specifically why lesions heal without scarring and why there is seldom any wound infection.
        Dr. Torre treated skin lesions on thousands of patients and determined cryosurgery to be the best method to combat those conditions. He also initiated a treatment methodology that proved effective in combination with other methods, like excision or electrosurgery.
        In 1968, Dr. Torre reported a link between internal cancers and certain skin tumors. The phenomenon, also described independently by E. G. Muir, is taught to medical students as the Muir-Torre syndrome.
        ''This was a very important discovery,'' said Prof. Richard D. Granstein, chairman of dermatology at Cornell, ''as it allows a physician to consider the likelihood of internal malignancy through the discovery of growths on the skin.''
        Douglas Torre was born in New Orleans and graduated from Tulane University, where he received his M.D. degree in 1943.
        He went into private practice in New York, joined the Cornell faculty in 1950 and was associated with various hospitals over the years. He retired last year as clinical professor of dermatology with emeritus status but continued to work until last week in his practice on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Dr. Torre's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Catherine; a son and a daughter from the previous marriage, Eric, of Madison, Wis., and Jeanne T. Reid of Winchester, Mass., and three grandsons.
      