
        Robert Bourassa, the former Premier of Quebec who led Canada's most turbulent province through some of its deepest crises and greatest triumphs and who introduced sweeping measures to preserve the province's French culture while firmly supporting unity with Canada, died today at Notre-Dame Hospital in Montreal. He was 63.
        Mr. Bourassa died after suffering a relapse of a malignant melanoma, or skin cancer, that had been diagnosed in 1990, said Anne-Marie) Tardif, a hospital spokeswoman.
        He was elected in 1970 at age 36 as the youngest Premier in the province's history, and for much of the next 25 years, he had a pervasive influence over Quebec and its struggle to be independent from Canada.
        At times he seemed to straddle the issue of Quebec sovereignty. He fired secessionist passions by pushing through laws to ban English-language signs and make French the  official language of the province -- both demands important to the separatists. But he dashed dreams of sovereignty by campaigning for the preservation of Canadian unity.
        ''He gave the impression that he would favor sovereignty, but that was only for strategic purposes,'' said Yves Martin, a deputy minister in the current provincial government who worked with Mr. Bourassa. ''He always maintained his dues in the federalist camp.''
        Prime Minister Jean Chretien, who belongs to the same Liberal Party as Mr. Bourassa, praised him today as a man who ''gave his life to the public sector.''
        The seeming contradictions  earned Mr. Bourassa many detractors, who were delighted to pillory his public image, which has been described as wooden. But his ability to come back, and his evident dedication, won him admiration even from his opponents. Lucien Bouchard, the separatist Premier of Quebec, today called Mr. Bourassa ''a man of quality and courage.''
        Mr. Bourassa was born in 1933 to a lower-middle-class family in Montreal's heavily French east end. At the time, English-speakers, based in the west end, dominated city politics and finances.
        He studied law at the University of Montreal and earned graduate degrees in politics and economics at Oxford and Harvard Universities. He began his career as a fiscal adviser to the federal government in Ottawa, but a leader of the Liberal Party in Montreal persuaded him to run for the provincial Assembly.
        He went on to become provincial leader of the Liberals and in 1970 was elected Premier.
        Within five months of taking office, Mr. Bourassa was faced with the most serious political crisis of his administration. On Oct. 5, 1970, a radical separatist group called the Quebec Liberation Front kidnapped the British trade commissioner in Montreal and the provincial Labor Minister, Pierre Laporte.
        Fearing he could lose control before a wave of terrorism that had left Montreal and suspicious, Mr. Bourassa asked Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and the federal government to intervene. Troops occupied Montreal streets, the War Measures Act was invoked, and more than 450 people were rounded up for questioning.
        Within days, Mr. Laporte's body was found in the trunk of a car near the airport. The British official was eventually released.
        Mr. Bourassa was harshly criticized for his handling of the crisis, but he insisted that armed troops had been needed to maintain confidence in his government.
        After that period, Mr. Bourassa focused on the economic and social development of Quebec. He began work on the huge James Bay hydroelectric project. Spillways three times the height of Niagara Falls were blasted into bedrock to tap the enormous electric generating potential of northern Quebec's rivers and lakes. But the project's negative environmental impact was severely criticized.
        In 1974 Mr. Bourassa helped push through Law 22, which made French the province's official language, even though the federal government operates in both English and French. The  law also banned the use of English on signs and in other venues and forced the children of immigrants to attend French schools. It later was blamed for driving out thousands of English-speaking Quebeckers and hundreds of large companies.
        After serving two terms as Premier, Mr. Bourassa was drubbed in a  1976 election by Rene Levesque, a former television journalist.
        Mr. Bourassa spent most of the next decade teaching in the United States and Europe. Older and by his own admission more mature, he returned and was again elected Premier of Quebec in 1985. After the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that provisions of the French-only law he had pushed through in the 1970's were illegal, he softened his stand and allowed some bilingual signs. He was re-elected in 1989.
        Mr. Bourassa liked to spend his vacations in warm spots, and he often traveled to Miami until his skin cancer was discovered in 1990.
        He underwent experimental cancer treatment in 1993 and stepped down in 1994. One of his last public appearances was just before the referendum last October on Quebec's intention to secede, where he again campaigned for unity.
        Mr. Bourassa is survived by his wife, the former Andree Simard; a son, Francois, who is a professional musician in Montreal; a daughter, Michelle, a psychologist in Montreal, and two grandchildren. Funeral services will be on Oct. 7 at the Notre-Dame Basilica in Montreal.
        Correction:  October 4, 1996, Friday
        An obituary yesterday of Robert Bourassa, a former Premier of Quebec, misstated one of the provisions of a 1974 law he helped push through the Quebec legislature. The law, which made French the province's official language, did not ban the use of English on commercial signs; that ban was imposed in 1977, after Mr. Bourassa had been turned out of office by the separatist Parti Quebecois.
      