
        Henri Nannen, the founder and longtime publisher of the German magazine Stern, whose distinguished career was tarnished in a hoax over Hitler's ''lost diaries,'' died on Sunday in Hamburg, Germany. He was 82.
        Mr. Nannen had been suffering from cancer, the Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Nannen was one of the founders of Stern in 1948. In 32 years as editor and three as publisher, he helped to make it one of the most lively and popular magazines in Europe. But the magazine suffered a stunning setback to its reputation (and for a time its circulation) in 1983, when it published the ''Hitler Diaries.''
        The magazine announced on April 22, 1983, that one of its reporters, Gerd Heidemann, had gained access to the documents through his contacts with unrepentant Nazis. The ''diaries'' had supposedly been saved in 1945 from the wreckage of a burning plane in eastern Germany.
        Boasting that it had achieved ''the biggest journalistic coup of the postwar period,'' Stern rushed parts of the supposed diaries into print after reportedly paying more than $3 million for them, even though the announcement of the discovery had prompted skepticism.
        Within days, tests in police laboratories and examinations by Government archivists established that the so-called diaries could not possibly be those of Hitler, who in any event had never been known to keep a diary. It turned out that the Stern reporter, Mr. Heidemann, had been duped by a Stuttgart forger, Konrad Kujau.
        Mr. Nannen, who was then Stern's publisher, conceded that he had succumbed to pressure to print the diaries. ''Either we all fell victim to a kind of group psychology that blinded us to the obvious, or we allowed ourselves to be blinded by the dollar signs,'' he said. He retired soon after.
        The scandal was painful to Mr. Nannen on a personal level as well. Friends said he had always felt burdened by his youthful friendship with Leni Riefenstahl, the film maker much admired by Hitler. She produced a film account of the 1936 Berlin Olympics in which Mr. Nannen played a sports broadcaster.
        As a young man, Mr. Nannen studied art history. Just before World War II, he wrote articles for an art magazine in which he praised Hitler. But years later, he said he had never been a Nazi and had been forced to flee Germany after his friendship with a Jewish woman caught the attention of Munich police.
        As a founder of Stern in 1948, Mr. Nannen decided on a mixture of sex and politics. The magazine was not afraid to take up causes, such as Chancellor Willy Brandt's policy of reconciliation with the Soviet Union.
        Under Mr. Nannen's stewardship, Stern acquired a reputation for occasional arrogance as well as for courage. In 1981 it printed Chancellor Helmut Schmidt's unflattering remarks about Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel. The Chancellor had supposedly been speaking ''on background,'' or off the record. The affair poisoned relations between the two leaders.
        ''We attack abuse of authority, attack authority,'' Mr. Nannen said early in his career. ''That's new in traditionally obedient Germany.''
        After retiring from Stern, Mr. Nannen opened an art gallery in Emden in 1986. He is survived by his third wife, Eske; a son and a stepson.
      