
        Stanley Goldberg, a physicist and historian who studied military science and worked closely with the Federal Government to illuminate its social repercussions, died yesterday at the Hospice of Washington after a sudden illness. He was 62 and lived in Washington.
        The cause of death has not yet been determined.
        Dr. Goldberg was just completing a biography of Lieut. Gen. Leslie R. Groves, the military head of the  Manhattan Project, the World War II effort to build the first atomic bomb. His book draws on new material from formerly secret Government files.
        ''He had a sidelong humor and irreverence that could calm Government officials rather than make them angry,'' said Priscilla McMillan, a fellow at the Russian Research Center at Harvard University who worked with Dr. Goldberg on Federal panels.
        Dr. Goldberg's career was devoted to what he called the ''demystification'' of science -- stripping away its technical jargon to make it more accessible to the public.
        He was a leading advocate of public access to military science records and was a founding member of a panel of historians that since 1993 has advised the National Archives and the Department of Energy about the release of public documents.
        Since 1983, Dr. Goldberg had also been a consultant to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History and, since 1987, to the National Air and Space Museum.
        As a member of the air and space museum's advisory board on the exhibition of the Enola Gay, the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on the Japanese city of Hiroshima near the end of the war, he argued for a delineation of the many forces behind the bombing, including military, political and bureaucratic factors. In September 1994, after the exhibit was scaled back when it came under criticism from veterans' groups and members of Congress, he resigned from the advisory board in protest.
        ''That kind of thought control should have no place in a government committed to democracy,'' he wrote at the time.
        More recently, he was the project director of a collaborative exhibit between the Russian Academy of Sciences and the Smithsonian Institution on the history of the cold war. The exhibit is to open early next year at the Air and Space Museum.
        Dr. Goldberg was the author of ''Understanding Relativity: Origin and Impact of a Scientific Revolution,'' published in 1984 by Birkhauser in Boston.
        He was born in Cleveland in 1934, received a bachelor's degree from Antioch College in 1960, a master's degree from Harvard in 1961 and a doctorate from Harvard in 1969. Dr. Goldberg later taught physics at Antioch, science education at the University of Zambia and the history of science at Hampshire College and the University of Maryland in Baltimore.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan Galloway Goldberg of Washington; three children from his first marriage, to Susan Weissman Goldberg, Ruth, of Falls Church, Va., David, of Lafayette, Ind., and Eve, of Toronto, and a sister, Rochelle Hildebrand of Honeoye Falls, N.Y.
      