
        Robert C. Woolley, a longtime Sotheby's auctioneer who capped his sometimes staid and sonorous career by emerging as a witty and tart-tongued pitchman who wheedled, needled, cajoled and shamed his society friends into spending millions of dollars at charity auctions, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 52.
        His friends said the cause was AIDS, which claimed his companion, Jeffrey Childs, in 1987 and transformed Mr. Woolley into a full-blown upscale Don Rickles with a gavel.
        New York society hardly knew what hit it in May 1987, when Mr. Woolley, the elegant, trim-bearded director of Sotheby's decorative arts division, suddenly abandoned the hushed art-auction formality and began singling out wealthy bidders by name, challenging them to improve the bids of some other society figures he would name and suggesting they would be pikers if they did not.
        This was simply not done in the polite world of high-level auctions. But this particular auction was a charity benefit in Southampton, L.I., and Mr. Woolley, somewhat to his own later amazement, discovered that when it came to raising money for a worthy cause, he was a man possessed.
        Sure, he raised some eyebrows by suggesting that William Paley, say, or Ahmet Ertegun or his own boss, Alfred Taubman, would be wimps if they let Brooke Astor or Susan Burden or Jan Cowles walk off with some gem by paying only twice its value when they could well afford to pay three times its worth.
        But Mr. Woolley found that the technique not only seemed to delight his well-heeled victims, it worked, raising their bids dramatically.
        It was hardly a coincidence that what Mr. Woolley called the beginning of his career as a celebrity auctioneer coincided with the death of Mr. Childs, the collector and antiques dealer who had shared Mr. Woolley's life and their elegant Fifth Avenue apartment for more than a decade.
        Indeed, although he brought his witty and pointed patter to fund-raising auctions for a variety of charities, he was never so effective as when he was raising money for AIDS organizations. According to Sotheby's own tally, since Mr. Woolley began his secondary career, he had raised more than $16 million for AIDS causes.
        The son of a Methodist choirmaster, Mr. Woolley was born in Pensacola, Fla., and grew up in York, Pa. He majored in political science at Drew University but abandoned a budding career as an adviser to a wealthy New Jersey politician when he took a job at A la Vieille Russie, the Fifth Avenue antiques gallery, and discovered the world of beautiful objects.
        As he recalled it in his memoirs, ''Going Once,'' published by Simon & Schuster last year, Mr. Wooley also abandoned a flirtation with heterosexuality about the same time. After a torrid yearlong affair with a beautiful woman that began when both worked at Drew, he concluded he was not cut out for the straight life.
        Until he began making hilarious, often outrageous, remarks in public at charity auctions, Mr. Woolley, who joined Sotheby's in 1968, was known to friends and associates as a man who made hilarious, almost always outrageous, remarks in private.
        Let someone, for example, look down his nose at Mr. Woolley's specialty, decorative arts, as glorified kitsch, and Mr. Wooley would dismiss the great paintings handled by Sotheby's as mere ''flatware.''
        His preference was also reflected in Sotheby's bottom line. ''Everybody needs chairs,'' he once explained. ''You don't necessarily need a $10 million Monet to cover your wall.''
        Mr. Woolley's own pursuit of beauty took an unsual twist when he and Mr. Childs moved into their apartment in 1976 with a parrot named Carlton and decided Carlton needed company. Before they were finished, the two men had devoted an entire bedroom to an aviary containing some 50 exotic birds.
        Mr. Woolley made no secret that the birds were chosen for their colorful plumage. ''This is not really aviculture,'' he once told a visitor. ''It's decorative pretension.''
        He is survived by his parents, Ralph and Louise Woolley of York and three brothers, Mark, Stephen and Scott.
      