
        Berthold Goldschmidt, a British composer and conductor of German birth, whose lyrical and often lavishly orchestrated music has been rediscovered in recent decades by both European and American performers after decades of obscurity, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 93.
        Mr. Goldschmidt was the last survivor of the group of German composers whose lives and careers were shattered when the Nazis came to power, and many musicians and critics consider him the finest of the group. His first opera, ''Der Gewaltige Hahnrei'' (''The Splendid Cuckold''), was performed to great acclaim in Mannheim in 1932, and was  to be performed in Berlin the next  year. When his music was declared degenerate, and banned, the performance was canceled and Mr. Goldschmidt spent the next two years composing for Jewish musical associations before fleeing to England in 1935.
        Mr. Goldschmidt was born in Hamburg in 1903, and studied music at the University of Hamburg, Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin and at the Berlin State Academy of Music, where his composition teacher was Franz Schreker. Influenced by the tonal but dramatic and often harmonically edgy music of Schreker, Weill, Hindemith and Busoni, and fascinated by Mahler's huge orchestral textures, Mr. Goldschmidt wrote music that sounded fresh but did not break loose from the moorings of tradition. An orchestral Passacaglia brought him his first success, the Mendlessohn State Prize for composition in 1925.
        He also pursued a conducting career in the mid-1920's, beginning with an assistant conducting post at the Berlin State Opera in 1926, where he worked with Erich Kleiber on the premiere of Berg's ''Wozzeck'' and played celeste in the first performances. He was a conductor at the Darmstadt Opera from 1927 to 1929, when he became the company's composer in residence. In the early 1930's, he was an adviser to the Berlin Municipal Opera.
        In England, performances were few, although the Jooss Ballet took up his ''Chronica'' and ''The Green Table,'' and he continued to write for orchestra, piano, chamber ensembles and voice. His second opera, ''Beatrice Cenci,'' based on Shelley's verse drama, won an Arts Council competition at the Festival of Britain in 1950, but although part of the prize was to have been a performance at Covent Garden the next year, the work lay unperformed until 1988.
        In the late 1950's, when commissions and performances had dwindled to nothing, Mr. Goldschmidt gave up composing and supported himself by teaching and with occasional conducting jobs at Glyndebourne and Edinburgh and with some of the London orchestras. He was regarded as an expert Mahler conductor, and in 1964 he collaborated with the English musicologist Deryck Cooke on a completion of the Mahler Symphony No. 10, and conducted its premiere.
        Mr. Goldschmidt returned to composition in 1982, when young musicians began expressing interest in his works. Among the works he composed in his later years were a Clarinet Quartet (1983), a choral work, ''Belsatzar'' (1985), and two string quartets, his Third (1988) and Fourth (1992).
        In recent years, his music has been performed increasingly in festivals -- particularly in Germany -- and both of his operas have been staged. ''Der Gewaltige Hahnrei'' was recorded by London Records as part of its ''Entartete Musik'' series, devoted to composers whose careers were derailed by the Nazis. Also in the series is ''The Goldschmidt Album'' of several shorter works, including his last, a Rondo for Violin and Orchestra. A recording of ''Beatrice Cenci'' was released last year by Sony Classical, and a recording of the Cello Concerto, with Yo-Yo Ma as the soloist, is forthcoming.
        Mr. Goldschmidt's wife, Elisabeth Bothe, died in 1979. No immediate family members survive.
      