
        Bernard Wexler, a securities lawyer who played a leading role in writing and editing a critical Federal study that led to reforms in the early days of the mutual fund industry, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 70 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Wexler died of lung cancer complicated by pneumonia, said his daughter, Natalie.
        The report that Mr. Wexler and colleagues at the Securities and Exchange Commission produced in late 1966, ''Public Policy Implications of Investment Company Growth,'' contended that the rapidly expanding mutual fund industry was raking in excessive management fees and sales charges and that greater safeguards were needed against conflict of interest.
        The study, 346 pages, resulted eventually in a reduction of the fees and sales charges and contributed to the replacement of fixed commissions in all securities transactions in favor of commissions that evolved through competition.
        Mr. Wexler, who began his career as a corporate lawyer in New York, had been at the S.E.C. for two years when he joined the mutual fund team in 1964, and he stayed with the agency until 1978. For six of those years he directed the office that wrote the decisions handed down by the agency and was often asked to polish the speeches of S.E.C. chairmen.
        Mr. Wexler dazzled colleagues with an encyclopedic knowledge of securities law and history and a gift for transforming the dry language of law and securities into vibrant plain English. ''Instead of saying 'additional capital,' he'd say 'fresh money,' '' recalled Richard M. Phillips, a fellow securities specialist who headed the mutual funds project.
        David Butowsky, a lawyer who worked with Mr. Wexler at the S.E.C. and later employed him in his firm in New York, said: ''He was famous for having a mind like a computer. Everything he ever read, everything he ever heard was stored in there. I once asked him about Lawrence of Arabia and three hours later he was still talking.''
        In 1978 Mr. Wexler took charge of the office that wrote the decisions of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. He ended his career there six years later as special counsel to the agency's solicitor and joined Mr. Butowsky's firm, where he practiced private securities law until retiring two years ago.
        Mr. Wexler was born about three months premature, on Jan. 27, 1926, after his mother fell down cellar stairs, and later faced severe physical limitations as he honed his intellect. He won the English prize as a senior at the elite Central High School in Philadelphia before racing through the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in two and a half years and going on to obtain a law degree at Penn.
        Yet his hearing was impaired and his eyesight was so poor that elementary school officials initially considered putting him in a class for the blind. He endured several corrective operations on his feet, but even as an adult he walked with an uneven gait.
        Largely because he could not distinguish colors, his daughter said, his uniform became a black suit, black tie and white shirt. He never learned to drive, and instead of using a typewriter, he did all his writing with a fountain pen.
        Besides his daughter, Mr. Wexler is survived by his former wife, Henrietta Wexler, a sister, Bertha Rubenstein and two grandchildren, all of Washington.
      