
        Fred Feldman, New York radio's first helicopter reporter who spent 16 airborne years monitoring traffic for rush-hour commuters and who invented the term ''rubbernecking delays'' to explain why they would be late for work, died on Friday at his home in Roseland, N.J. He was 63.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to his sister, Joann Fessler. She said her brother, who had stopped flying after suffering a heart attack and undergoing bypass surgery in 1978, had been scheduled for further bypass surgery this week.
        Although he had a long and distinguished later career, including seven years as director of the Shadow Traffic reporting service and eight as communications director for the Department of Transportation, Mr. Feldman was best known for the years he spent flying Helicopter 710 over the city's often-clogged highways and providing regular traffic updates for station WOR-AM.
        At a time when the venerable talk station's vast and fanatically loyal audience regarded regulars like John A. Gambling, Ed and Pegeen Fitzgerald and Alfred and Dora McCann as intimate members of their own families, Mr. Feldman was a beloved member of the family almost from the moment he took to the air in April 1962.
        Promptly dubbed Fearless Fred, by Mr. Gambling, Mr. Feldman was such a hit and had such an engaging personality that within months the 29-year-old bachelor was receiving mash notes by the hundreds.
        Only the second helicopter pilot to provide radio traffic reports (Francis Gary Powers, the U-2 pilot shot down over the Soviet Union in 1960, had been the first, for a Los Angeles station), Mr. Feldman was the first to emerge as a significant radio personality, and, in his case, something of a local institution.
        He is generally given credit for being the first person to have recognized that when things went dark on Nov. 9, 1965, it was not an isolated power failure but a vast blackout, which turned out to extend over the entire Northeast.
        Mr. Feldman was a pharmacist's son who was born in Manhattan and grew up in Forest Hills, Queens, and Washington Heights. He developed such an early and intense interest in flying that by the time he attended the University of Connecticut he had built so many model airplanes that his roommate complained that if he hung one more model from the ceiling the entire dorm room would take off.
        Mr. Feldman, who spent seven years in the Air Force, flying jets and serving as a flying instructor, became a radio reporter by accident. While working for a commercial helicopter service, he was engaged by WOR to ferry a reporter around the city during the morning rush hour, but when Mr. Feldman showed up the station had not yet hired a reporter and he was sent up on his own.
        Although he had no radio training and no knowledge of traffic flows, Mr. Feldman, who soon became a station employee, quickly learned the ropes. Balancing a clipboard on his knee while usually using both hands to fly, he delivered crisp reports every 10 minutes or so, learning the vagaries of traffic patterns as he went along and developing compelling lingo on the fly. The L.I.E., he quickly concluded was, ''a big lie,'' not an expressway at all but ''the world's longest parking lot.''
        As for the ubiquitous delays, Mr. Feldman was amazed to discover phantom bottlenecks, which he termed rubbernecking delays caused by motorists slowing down to gawk at some accident or other roadside distraction. (A couple necking in Riverside Park, he once reported, caused a four-mile backup on the West Side Highway.)
        After his 1978 heart attack, Mr. Feldman concentrated on desk jobs, retiring last year after two years as director of special projects for the Transcom consortium of regional traffic agencies.
        His sister of Ramsey, N.J., is his only immediate survivor.
      