
        Rufus W. Youngblood, the Secret Service agent who flung himself over the front seat and used his body to shield Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson during the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, died on Wednesday at a hospice near his home in Savannah, Ga. He was 72 and was deputy director of the Secret Service when he retired in 1971.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        For Mr. Youngblood it was no more than a reflex action, an instinctive act of professional duty in the face of apparent danger to the man he was sworn to protect. But on a day when a bereft nation seemed suddenly short of heroes, Mr. Youngblood seemed hero enough, a man who had clearly been ready to sacrifice his life to save the Vice President's.
        As it turned out, Mr. Johnson was never in real danger from the gunfire trained on the President two cars ahead in the motorcade through Dallas. But at the time Mr. Youngblood, who was riding in the front seat of the Vice President's limousine, did not now that.
        Indeed, as he recalled it in his 1973 book, ''20 Years in the Secret Service. My Life with Five Presidents,'' he had not known whether the sound he heard was a firecracker, a bomb or a gunshot. He knew only that something was wrong and that some action had to be taken.
        And so, as the President's car sped ahead and the words, ''Let's get out of here,'' rang out over the radio, Mr. Youngblood scrambled over the seat, pushed Mr. Johnson to the floor and spread his own body protectively on top of the Vice President's.
        For his action, Mr. Youngblood was awarded the Treasury Department's highest honor, but felt the fuss was somewhat excessive. After all, he was part of a generation for which heroism had been a matter of patriotic routine.
        Born in Macon, Ga., Mr. Youngblood was the son of a railroad man who was killed in a train wreck when his son was 2. He needed his mother's permission to join the Army Air Forces shortly after Pearl Harbor but signed up in time to serve as a navigator on some of the earliest bombing raids over Germany.
        After the war Mr. Youngblood obtained a degree in electrical engineering from Georgia Tech in 1950.
        After working for a struggling company, Mr. Youngblood, who by then had a wife and child, learned through the Georgia Tech placement office of an opening in the Secret Service's Atlanta office investigating counterfeiting and check fraud.
        ''There were 35 applicants, and he was the one they hired,'' his wife, Peggy, said yesterday, noting that her husband was forever being singled out from the crowd.
        Indeed, when he was sent to Washington for periodic special assignments on Presidential trips, he impressed his superior so much that by the time Dwight D. Eisenhower succeeded Harry S. Truman in 1953, Mr. Youngblood had been assigned to the White House detail full time.
        After Mr. Kennedy took office in 1961, Mr. Youngblood was made chief of the Vice-Presidential detail, in part because Mr. Johnson had taken a proprietary interest in the agent who could match him drawl for drawl.
        As Mrs. Youngblood recalled it, when Mr. Johnson went to the White House one day and saw Mr. Youngblood on duty, the Vice President complained that the White House had stolen ''my agent.''
        Shortly after Mr. Johnson took office, Mr. Youngblood was made chief of the White House detail. As a former colleague, Lem Johns, recalled yesterday, the Secret Service was generally delighted to have a high official who had the ear of a President. ''He was instrumental in getting us increased appropriations,'' Mr. Johns said, noting that Congress had been especially amenable to such appeals in the aftermath of the Kennedy assassination.
        During the Johnson Presidency, Mr. Youngblood had only one scary moment, albeit one with comic overtones. When Australian anti-war protesters threw what turned out to be balloons filled with red and green paint at the President's car during a visit to Melbourne, Australia, in 1966, Mr. Youngblood, who had been walking beside the car, was covered with red paint and Mr. Johns was drenched in green paint.
        Mr. Youngblood, who was promoted to deputy director before Mr. Johnson left office in 1969, retired two years later but continued to visit Mr. Johnson at his ranch in Texas.
        Settling in Savannah, Mr. Youngblood sold real estate for a while and then made a new name for himself:  as a master gardener whose profusion of colorful day lillies drew visitors from all over the country.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Mark, of Wallingford, Conn; three daughters, Joy Rumpf of Windham, N.H., Candy Hughes of Savannah, and Dr. Rebecca Vaughn of Acworth, Ga.; a sister, Ann Jones Shephard of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      