
        J. Bracken Lee, a conservative Republican who was Governor of Utah, Mayor of Salt Lake City and a foe of income taxes, foreign aid and even of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Salt Lake City. He was 97.
        Mr. Lee, widely known as Brack, also criticized government expenses, higher education and the United Nations. He was a two-term Governor, from 1949 to 1957, and Mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah's capital and largest city, from 1960 to 1972, when he retired. From 1936 to 1947, he was Mayor of his hometown of Price, Utah. He was also a repeated, though unsuccessful, candidate for the United States Senate.
        Mr. Lee's credo, pronounced while he was defending his fiscal conservatism when he was Governor, was, ''Do it honestly, do the best you know how, and let 'em holler!''
        A biographer of Mr. Lee, Dennis Lythgoe, wrote more bluntly yesterday, ''Due to a well-known penchant for personal confrontation, Lee probably made more enemies than any other Utah politician.''
        He drew the wrath of some leaders in the Mormon Church, which is influential in Utah, when he criticized Eisenhower, a moderate Republican who was President from 1953 to 1961. Mr. Lee went so far as to threaten to set up a third party if his fellow Republicans did not spurn Eisenhower, even though the President had chosen Ezra Taft Benson, a prominent Mormon from Idaho, to be his Agriculture Secretary.
        In 1960, as Mayor of Salt Lake City, Mr. Lee dismissed the city's well-liked police chief, W. Cleon Skousen, whose raids on private clubs Mr. Lee compared to the tactics of the Gestapo. For his part, Chief Skousen said Mayor Lee was ''soft on law enforcement.'' They skirmished for years.
        As Price's Mayor, Mr. Lee had a Utah Highway Patrol trooper arrested for speeding, although the trooper was ferrying an injured man to a hospital. Calvin L. Rampton, a later Governor who was then on the Utah Attorney General's staff, got the trooper acquitted of the charge. Afterward, Mr. Rampton recalled, Mayor Lee confronted him in a courthouse hallway. Mr. Rampton, a Democrat, recalled that ''he challenged me to a battle, but cooler heads prevailed.''
        Joseph Bracken Lee was the descendant of Mormons but formed no religious affiliation himself. He went to high school in Price, became an infantry sergeant in World War I and then prospered in the insurance and real-estate businesses.
        Mr. Lee was first elected Governor in 1948, defeating the Democratic incumbent, Herbert Maw. As Governor, he imposed strict controls on state spending, and he is credited with generating a multimillion-dollar surplus in the state's general fund by the time he left the office.
        He sought a third term as Governor but was beaten by George Clyde in the 1956 Republican primary. Mr. Lee ran unsuccessfully as an independent candidate in the general election.
        He was married to Nellie Emilia Pace, who died in 1926, and Margaret Ethel Draper, who died in 1989. He had four children.
        Mr. Lee is survived by numerous grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren.
      