
        Michael H. Cardozo 4th, who in six decades as a lawyer held numerous Government positions and was a law professor and law school administrator, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 86.
        Mr. Cardozo suffered from chronic lung disease, the family said.
        Mr. Cardozo was the first executive director of the Association of American Law Schools, a post he held from 1963 to 1973. From 1952 to 1963, he was an associate professor and professor at Cornell University Law School, specializing in international law and admiralty.
        Mr. Cardozo, a first cousin of Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo of the Supreme Court, was a visiting professor at Northwestern School of Law, the University of Pennsylvania Law School, George Washington Law Center, Georgetown Law School, Howard Law School and American University Law School.
        In 1965, Mr. Cardozo started Preview, a journal published from time to time about cases that were to be heard by the Supreme Court. He served as editor of Preview for 10 years, often calling on distinguished legal scholars to contribute summaries of cases.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Cardozo advocated legal writing that was well grounded not only in the law but also in the principles of clear English. He was on the editorial board of the Journal of Supreme Court History and the board of editors of The Practical Lawyer, a periodical.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Cardozo graduated from Dartmouth in 1932 and from Yale Law School in 1935.
        He worked for the Securities and Exchange Commission in the late 1930's and for the tax division of the Justice Department from 1940 to 1942. From 1942 to 1945, he was in the Office of Lend Lease Administration.
        After World War II, he was a lawyer in the State Department, helping to draft military-assistance legislation related to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and legislation for the Marshall Plan.
        Mr. Cardozo was in private practice in Washington from 1973 onward. From time to time, he was a consultant to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and other agencies. He was a founder and president of an alumni association for Fulbright scholars.
        Mr. Cardozo wrote numerous papers and articles and a 1962 book, ''Diplomats in International Cooperation: Step-Children of the Foreign Service'' (Cornell University Press).
        Mr. Cardozo was active in philanthropy related to Jewish history. He formed a foundation to preserve the Gomez Mill House in Marlboro, N.Y., as the oldest surviving Jewish residence in the United States. Mr. Cardozo was a descendant of Louis Gomez, who built the house in 1714.
        Survivors include his wife of 59 years, Alice; a son, Michael 5th, of Washington; two daughters, Julia Eisendrath of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Rebecca, of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      