
        Wang Li, one of the most fervent radicals of China's Cultural Revolution, who helped Mao Zedong overthrow many of his rivals in the Communist Party leadership before Mao turned on him and imprisoned him, died on Monday. He was 75.
        He had suffered from stomach cancer since 1986, family members said. They said he was admitted to Beijing University Hospital last week with unspecified kidney and lung problems and died of heart failure.
        Mr. Wang was imprisoned from 1967 until 1982 without ever being formally charged with a crime, but many party leaders blamed him for some of the worst excesses of the 10 years of chaos that began in early 1966 and continued intermittently until Mao's death in 1976.
        During that period, major Communist Party figures like Deng Xiaoping, the current paramount leader, were purged. Others, like President Liu Shaoqi, were beaten; still others died in prison. Countless thousands of professionals, literary figures, university professors, teachers and physicians were hauled before mass rallies for political struggle that often included beatings and torture.
        After he emerged from prison, Mr. Wang lived in obscurity with his wife, Wang Pingquan, in a West Beijing apartment. From there he filed 104 petitions seeking full rehabilitation from the party. It never came, though he asserted that Mr. Deng and some other senior party leaders were willing to forgive him. But others, Mr. Wang said, were not.
        In his only interview with a foreign journalist since his emergence from prison, Mr. Wang said last spring, ''I have no regrets about my actions''  during the Cultural Revolution.
        The 30-year anniversary of the beginning of the tumultuous period fell last May 16 but was not commemorated, under orders from President Jiang Zemin and top party leaders who fear that any public demonstrations could turn against the party.
        ''I made mistakes,'' Mr. Wang said. ''It was all right to make mistakes in those times, as long as you corrected them.'' But he denied that he had ever taken part in violence or directly incited violence, although the record suggests otherwise.
        ''I became the scapegoat for the whole party,'' he asserted. ''They said that I caused the chaos throughout the country.''
        Mr. Wang was a witness to the humbling of great men. He was recruited directly by Mao to become a member of the Leading Group of the Cultural Revolution, whose power at times eclipsed that of the Politburo.
        ''I was one of the initiators of the so-called theory to continue the revolution under the proletarian dictatorship,'' Mr. Wang said, referring to the call to unending class struggle that Mao and his wife, Jiang Qing, and others used to purge the party of their rivals or enemies. It also resulted in the purging of the economic reformers who ultimately returned under Mr. Deng to turn loose the economic revolution that is transforming China today.
        ''Although I did these things according to Mao Zedong's instructions,'' he said, ''I, as a writer of these documents, had major responsibilities for the mistakes.''
        In the interview, he revealed that in 1967 Mr. Deng invited him to his home in the Forbidden City at a time when Mr. Deng was seeking to avoid being purged as a capitalist roader.
        Mr. Deng wanted Mr. Wang's advice on how to craft a self-criticism letter to Mao. But the letter failed to save Mr. Deng. He was shipped off to a tractor factory in southern China for five years. Mr. Deng's eldest son, Deng Pufang, was tortured by Red Guards until he jumped out of a fourth-floor window at Beijing University, only to survive the fall as a paraplegic.
        From most accounts, it seems clear that Mr. Wang, a deputy editor in chief of the party magazine, Red Flag, incited Red Guards under his control to some acts of violence.
        Mr. Wang's speech on Aug. 7, 1967, to Red Guards at China's Foreign Ministry led to their violent takeover of the building. In the weeks that followed, Red Guards rampaged among foreign diplomats in Beijing, often beating envoys. On Aug. 22 mobs set fire to the British Chancery building with gasoline bombs.
        In the interview last spring, Mr. Wang admitted that his speech at the Foreign Ministry was somewhat excessive at certain points and may have incited the violence, but he also insisted that Mao had read the speech in advance.
        During his 10 years of association with Mao, Mr. Wang said he was once part of an effort by Mao in 1956 to make a diplomatic opening to the United States by working to gain an invitation for a Chinese dance troupe to New York and Washington. The effort failed under the strain of the Soviet crackdown in Hungary in 1956. It would take a Ping-Pong match more than a decade later to accomplish the mission.
        Mr. Wang joined the Communist Youth League in 1935 and the Communist Party in 1939. He rose rapidly through the ranks after the Communist victory in 1949 and earned a reputation as a fiery propagandist.
        Among his posts, he served in the early 1950's as secretary general of the East-China Bureau propaganda department, and in the mid-1950's he was chief of propaganda to the advisory group on Vietnam. His last post before joining Red Flag magazine was as deputy minister of the party's Central Liaison Department.
        Mr. Wang is survived by his wife and three children: a son, Wang Lujun, a high school teacher in Beijing; a daughter, Wang Haijun, also a teacher, and a second daughter, Wang Hongjun, an associate professor of Chinese at Beijing University.
      