
        Wymberley deRenne Coerr, an American career diplomat who was Ambassador to Uruguay and Ecuador in the 1960's, died on Oct. 5 in a hospital in Ajijic, Mexico, where he and his wife had rented a house for  three months. He was 83.
        His death was announced by his family last week. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Eleanor, of Clearwater, Fla.
        Mr. Coerr (pronounced ''core''), a native New Yorker, had tense moments in his career. He was Acting Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American affairs in 1961, when he was summoned to the White House to help with the hurried drafting of a key speech, given hours later by President John F. Kennedy, urging the Council of the Organization of American States to expedite the work of the Alliance for Progress.
        Earlier, as the No. 2 diplomat at the embassy in Bolivia for part of the 1950's, Mr. Coerr won a State Department award for, among other things, supervising the burning of the embassy's files while anti-American crowds attacked the mission.
        He was Ambassador to Ecuador from 1965 to 1967, when the State Department recalled him at the demand of the Ecuadorean Government, which asserted that he had issued ''public, open criticism'' of President Otto Arosemena Gomez.
        A State Department official denied that Mr. Coerr had done so, and Latin America experts suggested that Mr. Arosemena had acted against him  for political profit in Ecuador.
        Mr. Coerr graduated in 1936 from Yale, had his first Foreign Service assignment in Montreal in 1940 and was Ambassador to Uruguay from 1962 to 1965. From 1967 to his retirement in 1976, he held posts in the State Department and the Smithsonian Institution.
        His 1937 marriage to Janet Hill ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife of 32 years, the former Eleanor Page Hicks, his survivors include a son, Stanton of Chapel Hill, N.C.; a daughter, Susan Coerr of San Francisco; two stepsons, Robert Hicks of Richmond, Va., and William Hicks of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      