
        Samuel Rosenberg, a photographer, author and raconteur who turned his voracious reading habits, prodigious memory and hyperactive imagination into a subsidiary career as a literary psychosleuth, died last Friday at the New York Hospital Medical Center in Queens. He was best known for "Naked Is the Best Disguise," his 1974 study of the literary and libidinous wellsprings of the Sherlock Holmes canon.
        Mr. Rosenberg, who was 85 and lived in Forest Hills, died of complications of Parkinson's syndrome, his family said.
        In a career in which he read scripts for a Broadway producer in the 1930's,  worked as a photographer and photo analyst for the Office of Strategic Services  during World War II and later wrote magazine articles, published essays and served as a Hollywood story consultant, Mr. Rosenberg -- whose very doodles were once given a celebrated show at a Washington gallery -- did so many things so well he was forever in danger of spreading himself too thin.
        Or he would have been, if his appetite for books had not been matched by his  appetite, a circumstance that once prompted his friend and admirer, Buckminster  Fuller, to describe the 6-foot-3-inch, 300-pound Mr. Rosenberg as "history's most massive reader."
        Mr. Rosenberg's literary tastes were not so much catholic as pantheistic.
        "He read everything," his friend Gerard Piel said yesterday, noting that what set Mr. Rosenberg apart was not that he read everything but that he remembered everything he read.
        His total and ready recall, which, together with his wit, made him a sought-after dinner companion, came in handy in his Hollywood days. In the 1960's, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer used him to fight plagiarism suits by having him find common literary sources for both the official script and the challenger's.
        It also served him well when a chance 1954 visit to the Swiss falls where Holmes had his famous death struggle with Professor Moriarty so stirred his imagination that he was off and ruminating.
        When he finished, 20 years later, he had produced a book that not only traced Holmes's origins to Nietzsche, Melville, Poe, Bunyan, Boccacio, Flaubert, Dostoevsky, Wilde and others, but found allusions to forbidden sexual expressions at every drop of a literary reference in the Holmes canon.
        Mr. Rosenberg, who had rehearsed the form in "The Horrible Truth About Dr. Frankenstein," a 1968 Life magazine essay, was a self-taught amateur psychoanalyst who did not shrink from bearding the master. After a visit to Freud's haunts in Vienna, he once wrote an essay analyzing Freud.
        A native of Cleveland, where his father was a butcher and a songwriter, Mr. Rosenberg came to New York in the 1930's. Working as a play-reader for a Broadway producer, he became famous for his terse and witty critiques.
        Mr. Rosenberg got a comeuppance of sorts when he collaborated with the well-known playwright Jerome Weidman on a 1936 production that Mr. Weidman later hailed as "the best play that ever folded after a tryout in Baltimore."
        After a friend recruited him for the O.S.S., the precursor of the C.I.A., Mr. Rosenberg and his wife, Angela Nizzardini, a Martha Graham dancer, moved to Washington. On an O.S.S. assignment, Mr. Rosenberg took pictures of the liberated Nazi death camps and later served as official photographer at the founding of the United Nations in San Francisco.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Amber Ruth Sabri, of San Francisco.
      