
        Albert G. Hill, a professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who played an important role in the development of radar in World War II, died on Oct. 21 at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 86.
        The cause was chronic pulmonary disease, said Kenneth D. Campbell, a spokesman for M.I.T., where Dr. Hill retired in 1978 as director of the Plasma Fusion Center.
        Until 1982, he was also the founding chairman of the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, which developed the gyroscope and the inertial guidance system that steered Apollo 11 to the Moon in 1969. Formerly the Instrumentation Laboratory of M.I.T., the Draper laboratory became fully independent in 1973.
        Dr. Hill was an instructor at M.I.T. in 1941 when he joined the staff of its Radiation Laboratory, known as Radlab, which was working on radar for military use. He headed the radio frequency group in Radlab's transmitter components division, advancing to chief of the 800-member division by war's end.
        Radlab's tasks included designing a radar for night fighter planes and a long-range navigational system  dubbed Loran, which is still used. The head of Radlab, Dr. Lee DuBridge, later summed up its achievements by saying, ''Radar won the war; the atom bomb ended it.''
        Albert Hill was born in St. Louis  and received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Washington University, where he also got his master's degree in physics in 1934. He received his doctorate in physics at the University of Rochester in 1937, the year he joined the M.I.T. faculty.
        After the war, he became a professor of physics and associate director of the newly formed Research Laboratory of Electronics, an offspring of the M.I.T. Radiation Laboratory's basic research division. In 1949, Dr. James R. Killian Jr., president of M.I.T., appointed him director of the laboratory.
        In the early 1950's, Dr. Hill directed the M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory, which was set up at the behest of the Government. Its task was to construct the computerized Sage (Semi-Automatic Ground Environment) air defense system and the DEW (Distant Early Warning) line of radar stations stretching from northern Alaska to Greenland.
        At Lincoln, Dr. Hill waged ''an evangelical campaign to gain acceptance of the idea of early warning as a defense against Soviet bomber attack,'' Dr. Killian wrote in his 1985 autobiography, ''The Education of a College President.'' He recalled how Dr. Hill, at a National Security Council meeting at which President Harry S. Truman presided, made the case for the $2 billion DEW project, describing what he called the ''awful urgency'' created when the Soviet Union joined the world's nuclear club.
        During 41 years at M.I.T. as a researcher, teacher and administrator, Dr. Hill recruited black students and faculty members and helped set up its Office of Minority Education. He also lectured in the department of political science and, in 1970, became vice president for research.
        Dr. Hill, who was married twice, left no immediate survivors. His first marriage, to Ethel Simpson, ended in divorce. His second wife, Ruth Parker Hill, died in 1990 after 30 years of marriage.
      