
        Arthur F. Quern, chairman of the Illinois Board of Higher Education and a former aide to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and President Gerald R. Ford, died on Wednesday in the crash of a corporate jet that was taking off from an airfield north of Chicago. Three others, all crew members, also died.
        He was 54 and lived in Evanston, Ill.
        Mr. Quern was named chairman of the education board, an unsalaried post, by Gov. Jim Edgar in 1991, eight years after he had left public service under Gov. James R. Thompson to work in business. At his death, Mr. Quern was chairman of the Aon Risk Services Companies of Chicago and senior vice president and secretary of its parent, the Aon Corporation.
        He was on a business trip to California when the Gulfstream jet skidded and slammed into an embankment at Palwaukee Municipal Airport.
        The other victims were two pilots,  Martin L. Koppie and Robert H. Whitener, and Catherine Anderson, a cabin attendant.
        Aon Risk Services is a multinational insurance brokerage and risk-management concern with offices throughout the United States.
        Mr. Quern was born in New York. He graduated from St. John's University and won his political spurs in the early 1970's as an assistant to Governor Rockefeller in New York. When Mr. Ford succeeded Richard M. Nixon in the White House, Mr. Rockefeller became Vice President and took Mr. Quern with him to Washington.
        Mr. Quern worked for President Ford as deputy assistant for domestic affairs, where he drew the attention of Mr. Thompson, who moved into the Governor's Mansion in Springfield in 1977 and hired Mr. Quern as director of public aid. In 1980, Mr. Quern became Mr. Thompson's chief of staff.
        He left state government three years later for Aon.
        He was a trustee of the University of Chicago and chairman of the trustees of the University of Chicago Hospitals, as well as sitting on the boards of the Illinois Housing Development Authority, the Lincoln Academy of Illinois, the Illinois State Historical Society and the Field Foundation of Illinois.
        Survivors include his wife, Jacqueline Laske Quern, and two daughters, Susannah and Margaret.
      