
        George M. Grover, a nuclear physicist who developed a deceptively simple heat-transfer system that helps devices like satellites and lap-top computers operate more efficiently, died on Oct. 24 at a nursing home in Albuquerque, N.M., where he lived. He was 81.
        Dr. Grover had Alzheimer's disease, said his sister, Norma G. Airmet of Albuquerque.
        In 1963, Dr. Grover was working at the Los Alamos National Laboratory on the idea of using a nuclear reactor to generate electricity in space when he developed the first working heat pipe as a way to move heat out of the reactor very efficiently, said Dr. Coyne Prenger, a staff member at the laboratory. A patent with the idea for a heat pipe was filed in 1935 by General Motors, Dr. Prenger said, but Dr. Grover, who was not aware of that work, built the first working model and is credited internationally as its inventor.
        Heat pipes have proved useful in space and on earth for things like electronic components, Dr. Prenger said. ''Most modern communications satellites are full of heat pipes,'' Dr. Prenger said. ''You couldn't jam that much electronic gear into such a small space like a satellite unless you could get the heat out.''
        The device appears simple because it has no moving parts, but it is thousands of times better at moving heat than pure silver, the best heat conductor among metals, and it can move heat from one end of a tube to the other even when the temperature difference is as small as one degree Celsius. The fluid picks up heat at one end of the pipe when it evaporates; the vapor moves to the cooler end, where it condenses, releasing the heat. The fluid returns through the tube either through capillary action or with the aid of gravity.
        Dr. Grover immediately shared the device with scientists worldwide, Dr. Prenger said, opening up a new research path that is still active. Dr. Grover's idea for generating power in space was eventually adopted by the Russians, Dr. Prenger said.
        George Maurice Grover was born on June 7, 1915, in Garland, Utah. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Washington in 1941 and a Ph.D. in nuclear physics at the University of Michigan in 1950. He joined Los Alamos soon afterward.
        Dr. Grover left Los Alamos in 1971 and helped found the Q-Dot Corporation to make heat pipes for commercial use. The company was sold in 1985, and he retired.
        Besides his sister, Dr. Grover is survived by a son, James E., of Livingston, Mont., and a brother, Keith W., of Albuquerque.
      