
        Philip Lieson Miller, a musicologist and for many years a distinctive presence on the New York cultural scene, died last Saturday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 90 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        When Mr. Miller retired as chief of the music division of the New York Public Library in 1966, he was nearly as much of an institution as the library itself. He was instrumental in building its collections into one of the world's finest and largest repositories of recordings and music lore, second in this country only to that of the Library of Congress. Under his guidance the archives grew to some 70,000 recordings, ranging from wax cylinders of Metropolitan Opera performances, vintage 1901 to 1903, to the best of the latest LP's.
        He wrote extensively on music. He was ubiquitous as a commentator, arranger or presenter at library concerts, music exhibitions and countless events with rare recordings or opera stars, in person or on the radio. In 1948 he instituted the al fresco summer concerts in Bryant Park, which resumed only recently in a newly reclaimed and refurbished park.
        He oversaw the move of the music collections from their cramped quarters to the spacious Library and Museum of the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. The move, completed in the spring of 1965, was a miracle of logistics. It permitted researchers and the public alike to search for treasures and sample them in a listening room, luxuries for which the main library on Fifth Avenue lacked the space.
        At the time, he also helped establish the Rodgers and Hammerstein Archives of Recorded Sound and the Toscanini Memorial Archives. He served as president of both the Music Library Association and the Association for Recorded Sound Collections.
        When Mr. Miller retired, Harold C. Schonberg, the music critic of The New York Times, spoke for the many who thought he had been around since 1906, or 1910, or forever. ''The point is,'' Mr. Schonberg wrote in a farewell, ''that as long as anybody seems to remember, Phil Miller has been a necessary adjunct of the music division, and if he had not been there it would have been necessary, as the saying goes, to invent him.''
        Joining the musicologists, musicians, librarians and well-wishers, Mr. Schonberg recalled Mr. Miller's firm grasp and sharp wit, tempered with enough informality and charm to ease one's dusty researches.
        Philip Miller was born in Woodland, N.Y., and studied at the Choristers School in Rhinebeck, N.Y., and at the choir school of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. He trained at the Neighborhood School of Music (now the Manhattan School of Music), and the Institute of Musical Art (now Juilliard School of Music), where he studied voice.
        His association with the Public Library began in 1927. He started as a reference assistant, became assistant chief in 1946 and chief in 1959. An expert in recorded music, he started a series of public evening concerts in early 1948, drawing from his own collection as well as the library's.
        The response led him to institute lunchtime programs in Bryant Park that summer. The first one was an experiment before a partly resentful audience of people who regarded the park as theirs. Mr. Miller persisted, noting that as there was not enough room in the library, the music had to come outside.
        Within a couple of years, the series was a great draw for office workers and visitors who inquired about schedules weeks ahead of time. High points of the summer were the Caruso memorial concerts in August that  Mr. Miller arranged for the anniversaries of the great tenor's death in 1921.
        Thousands of devotees listened to the famous voice wafting through the sycamores behind the library, interspersed with the biographical commentary by Mr. Miller, presenter and master of ceremonies.
        Mr. Miller published ''The Ring of Words: An Anthology of Song Texts'' (Doubleday, 1963), for which he selected and translated art songs from seven countries. Another book was ''Vocal Music: The Guide to Long-Playing Records'' (Knopf, 1959), whose subjects range from Verdi's Requiem to a Schubert song.
        Mr. Miller, a music critic from early in his career, continued to contribute in later years to High Fidelity, Musical Quarterly, The New York Times and other publications.
        Mrs. Miller was married to Catharine Keyes Miller, a retired head of a branch library on East 58th Street, who died in 1966. He is survived by a niece, Trudi Miller-Infante of Indianapolis.
      