
        Robert J. McCloskey, a career diplomat who served as the State Department's spokesman during the Vietnam War, rose to become an Assistant Secretary of State and later was appointed Ambassador to Cyprus, the Netherlands and Greece, died on Thursday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 74 years old.
        The cause of death was leukemia, said his wife, Anne.
        Mr. McCloskey was the public voice of the State Department during tumultuous times under three Secretaries of State: Dean Rusk, William P. Rogers and Henry A. Kissinger. And in an era when Government officials were acquiring a reputation for doublespeak, Mr. McCloskey was known as a straight shooter.
        In ''The Best and the Brightest,'' David Halberstam wrote that Mr. McCloskey sometimes put his job on the line in order to deliver accurate information to reporters, even when it was potentially damaging to his superiors.
        ''He had a reputation for being straight, honest and professional, and many reporters considered him the best briefing officer in Washington,'' Mr. Halberstam wrote.
        Robert James McCloskey was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 25, 1922. After serving in the Marines during the Second World War, he took a job as a reporter for the Bethlehem Globe-Times. He joined the Foreign Service in 1955, and, after a stint in Hong Kong, returned to Washington.
        He served as a State Department spokesman from 1964 to 1973, during the height of the Vietnam War. ''He took a lot of heat,'' his wife, Anne, remembered. ''We had an interesting war.''
        In 1973 he was appointed Ambassador to Cyprus, but when Mr. Kissinger became Secretary of State later that year he summoned Mr. McCloskey back to Washington to serve as his first spokesman, reflecting the widespread view in Washington that Mr. McCloskey had no peer in that specialty. Later, Mr. Kissinger appointed him Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional relations.
        In his memoir, ''Years of Upheaval'' (Little, Brown and Company, 1982), Mr. Kissinger said Mr. McCloskey ''acted as supervisor of press relations, Congressional relations, and any other subject which required wise and unflappable counsel.''
        Mr. McCloskey was appointed Ambassador to the Netherlands in 1976 and Ambassador to Greece in 1978. In 1981 he returned to the United States and became the ombudsman of The Washington Post. Then, in 1983, he left the newspaper to become a senior vice president at the International Catholic Relief Services, where he coordinated the effort to get food to Ethiopia.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. McCloskey is survived by two daughters, Lisa McCloskey Keeler of Richmond and Andre Taylor McCloskey of Shelburne, Vt., and one granddaughter.
      