
        Walter N. Ridley, an educator who was ready when the State of Virginia was ordered to integrate its all-white university system in 1950, died on Sept. 26 at his home in West Chester, Pa. He was 86 and had made history in 1953 when he received a Ph.D. from the University of Virginia, becoming the first black person ever to obtain a doctorate from a state-supported university in the South.
        Dr. Ridley, who ended his career as a professor at West Chester University, had spent 21 years as a teacher and administrator at Virginia State College in Petersburg, had been academic dean at St. Paul's College in Lawrenceville, Va., and had served 10 years as president of Elizabeth City College in North Carolina. Details of Dr. Ridley's career were made available last week.
        Half a century ago racial segregation was so solidly entrenched in the South that when Dr. Ridley first started applying to the University of Virginia graduate school, the state -- which had no separate doctoral program, equal or otherwise, for black students -- paid him a stipend to attend school in the North rather than admit a black student to a white school.
        By the time Federal courts ordered Virginia to abandon its rock-solid policy of segregated higher education and Dr. Ridley was finally allowed to study with white students at the University of Virginia's School of Education in Charlottesville, he would seem to have been more than minimally qualified.
        Indeed, Dr. Ridley, a Newport News native who graduated from Howard University and received a master's degree there, had not only spent several years in graduate studies at Ohio State and the University of Minnesota, but when he was admitted to Thomas Jefferson's university he was also a 41-year-old professor and head of the department of psychology at the all-black Virginia State College. He had also written widely on education, served as a member of the United States Commission on Unesco and was president of the American Teachers Association. He held the latter post until 1966, when he helped engineer the black organization's merger with the National Education Association.
        University officials were determined to recruit black students who, as they put it, would be ''highly likely,'' to stay the course; a year before Dr. Ridley's enrollment, the first black Virginia graduate student had dropped out of law school.
        Dr. Ridley had an almost all-A record, with a single B-minus.
        When friends wondered why Dr. Ridley had accepted the university's belated overtures to attend a graduate school that had repeatedly rebuffed him, he gave the same answer he had used in protesting the university's previous objections.
        ''Why shouldn't I go?'' he said. ''My father has been paying taxes in this state since before I was born, and I am entitled to study here.''
        Dr. Ridley, whose mother was a music teacher and whose father, the son of a former slave, had begun his career as a shipyard worker and ended it as the founder of a bank, was willing to put in considerable effort to obtain the degree he had been denied.
        During his two years of study, Dr. Ridley, who retained his position at Virginia State, made 90 round trips between Petersburg and Charlottesville, but then, he was accustomed to going on the road for education. The several summers he studied at the University of Minnesota required a 3,000-mile round trip.
        After obtaining his doctorate, Dr. Ridley returned to Virginia State, moved on to St. Paul's for a year, then in 1958 began what he regarded as his most significant academic work, as president of the small black Elizabeth City College.
        During his 10 years as president, Dr. Ridley presided over a significant growth of the school's enrollment, campus and academic standing, laying the groundwork for its elevation to university status in 1969.
        But the man who had been kept out of school because of his skin color did not measure his success at Elizabeth City strictly by the numbers of students, books, teachers and buildings he added. He also made sure during his years as president that the traditionally black college admitted its first white student.
        Dr. Ridley is survived by his wife, Henrietta; a daughter, Yolanda Scheunemann of Chicago; a son, Don LeRoy of West Chester, and three grandchildren.
      