
        Jean-Bedel Bokassa, a former colonel who seized power in the Central African Republic and went on to proclaim himself Emperor of his impoverished nation, died on Sunday night, his son Jean Charles announced today in Bangui, the capital. He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son said.
        Mr. Bokassa's sometimes-brutal 14-year tenure in power, including two years as his country's self-proclaimed Emperor, ended in 1979, when French paratroopers overthrew his Government while Mr. Bokassa was on an official trip to Libya.
        France justified its intervention in the Central African Republic by brandishing stories of Mr. Bokassa's supposed cannibalism of imprisoned school children. In 1986, Mr. Bokassa, who had been living in exile in Ivory Coast, returned home to face charges against him that ranged from murder to treason.
        The allegations of cannibalism were never proven, but the erstwhile President for Life and Emperor was sentenced to death for assassinations, concealing corpses and embezzlement and served seven years in prison before he was finally pardoned by a successor, Andre Kolingba.
        From the coup in 1965 that brought him to power until his overthrow, imprisonment and last years back home in the Central African capital, the story of Mr. Bokassa, a distinguished veteran of the French war in Indochina, closely mirrored the ups and downs of France's deep involvement in the politics of its former African colonies.
        As commander of the army and Minister of Defense, Mr. Bokassa, then a colonel, was plucked by France to overthrow the Central African Republic's first President, his cousin, David Dacko, when Mr. Dacko began establishing close ties with China.
        Within days of taking power, Mr. Bokassa broke off relations with Beijing, expelling a large delegation of Chinese advisers. At the same time, revealing the lust for titles and power that would lead him 12 years later to proclaim himself Emperor, Mr. Bokassa took on the titles of President, Prime Minister, Commander in Chief of the army and leader of the sole political party.
        Even as his behavior grew increasingly erratic, Mr. Bokassa maintained warm relations with France for several years. The former French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing was a frequent visitor to the Central African Republic, where he and Mr. Bokassa enjoyed big-game hunting together.
        Paris congratulated Mr. Bokassa when he decided that his republic should henceforth be known as an empire, and the French Government helped finance some of the estimated $30 million cost of Mr. Bokassa's lavish coronation in 1977.
        Eventually, however, a combination of increasingly frequent bids for independence in foreign affairs by Mr. Bokassa, and a growing opposition to the Emperor's extravagance at home led France to conclude that the Emperor must go.
        In September 1979, in one of the first actions of its type in Africa where foreign troops were used to overthrow a sitting President, 700 French paratroopers took control of Bangui while Mr. Bokassa was away on a state visit to Libya.
        Citing the growing repressiveness  of his rule, and reports of cannibalism that were splashed across the pages of Paris Match, France installed as President Mr. Dacko, the man it had prompted Mr. Bokassa to overthrow 14 years earlier.
        Though Paris had successfully removed a leader who had proven himself a nuisance with minimal opposition from other African states, Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's closeness with Mr. Bokassa would come back to haunt him.
        From exile in the Ivory Coast, where he settled after France refused to allow him entry, an embittered Mr. Bokassa began writing about his long and deep ties with the French. The autobiographical writings, which were published under the title ''My Truth,'' contained details of gifts of diamonds Mr. Bokassa is said to have frequently made to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing. Although the book was banned in France, the disclosures are widely believed to have helped doom Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's 1981 re-election bid against his socialist rival, Francois Mitterand.
        After returning home to face the charges against him, and serving time in prison, Mr. Bokassa, by then dependent upon his small monthly French officer's pension, continued to harbor bitterfeelings against France, a nation that he said he had served for more than 20 years, but which still refused to open its doors to him.
        When France intervened yet again in the Central African Republic earlier this year to put down an army mutiny, Mr. Bokassa, who had enjoyed something of a return to popularity since his release from prison, was applauded by many Central Africans when he condemned the renewed foreign interference.
        ''Every time we have a problem, the French have to come and meddle,'' he said at the time, in an interview with The New York Times. ''Finally, you have to ask yourself, are we independent, or are we not?''
        Mr. Bokassa, who married several times, is survived by as many as 60 children.
      