
        Jean-Bedel Bokassa, a former colonel who seized power in the Central African Republic and went on to proclaim himself Emperor of his impoverished nation, died on Sunday night, his son Jean Charles announced today in Bangui, the capital. He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son said.
        Mr. Bokassa's sometimes brutal 14-year rule, including two years as his country's self-proclaimed Emperor, ended in 1979 when French paratroopers overthrew his Government while Mr. Bokassa was on an official trip to Libya.
        France justified its intervention in the Central African Republic by citing stories of Mr. Bokassa's supposed cannibalism of imprisoned schoolchildren. In 1986, Mr. Bokassa, who was living in exile in the Ivory Coast, returned home to face charges against him that included murder and treason.
        The allegations of cannibalism were never proven, but the onetime President for Life and Emperor was sentenced to death for assassinations, concealing corpses and embezzlement. He served seven years in prison before he was finally pardoned by a successor, Andre Kolingba, in an attempt at national reconciliation.
        From the coup in 1965 that brought him to power until his overthrow, imprisonment and last years back home in the Central African capital, the story of Mr. Bokassa, a distinguished veteran of the French war in Indochina, closely mirrored the ups and downs of France's deep involvement in the politics of its former African colonies.
        As commander of the army and Defense Minister, Mr. Bokassa, then a colonel, was plucked by France to overthrow the Central African Republic's first President, his cousin David Dacko, when Mr. Dacko began establishing close ties with China. Mr. Bokassa's legendary devotion to France and fierce anti-Communism made him the perfect candidate in Paris's view to replace Mr. Dacko.
        Within days of taking power, Mr. Bokassa broke off relations with Beijing, expelling a large delegation of Chinese advisers. At the same time, showing the lust for titles and power that would lead him 12 years later to proclaim himself Emperor, Mr. Bokassa took on the titles of President, Prime Minister, Commander in Chief of the army and leader of the sole political party.
        Even as his behavior grew increasingly erratic, Mr. Bokassa maintained warm relations with France for several years. Valery Giscard d'Estaing, then the French President, was a frequent visitor to the Central African Republic, where he and Mr. Bokassa enjoyed big-game hunting together.
        Paris congratulated Mr. Bokassa when he decided that his republic should be known as an empire, and the French Government helped finance some of the estimated $30 million cost of Mr. Bokassa's lavish coronation in 1977, which was consciously patterned after Napoleon's coronation.
        But eventually, a combination of increasingly frequent bids for independence in foreign affairs by Mr. Bokassa and a growing opposition to the Emperor's extravagance at home led France to conclude that he must go.
        In September 1979, in one of the first actions of its type in Africa in which foreign troops were used to overthrow a leader in power, 700 French paratroopers took control of Bangui while Mr. Bokassa was in Libya.
        Citing the growing repressiveness of his rule, and the reports of cannibalism, France installed Mr. Dacko, whom it had prompted Mr. Bokassa to overthrow 14 years earlier, as President.
        The charges of cannibalism got their start in an article published in Paris-Match magazine that included photographs purporting to show a refrigerator in which the Central African leader kept the bodies of schoolchildren who had been arrested and beaten to death. They had protested having to wear uniforms made from a cloth sold by a business run by the Emperor's wife.
        The Government's violent crackdown on student demonstrations shocked public opinion at home and in France, and ultimately led to Mr. Bokassa's overthrow by French troops. But when he was tried years later on treason and murder counts, Mr. Bokassa was acquitted of all charges related to the killing.
        Mr. Bokassa remained serene throughout a long interview at his home this year, except when asked about the cannibalism story, which he angrily insisted had been planted in the French press by a photographer who was close to President Giscard d'Estaing.
        ''That was not my refrigerator,'' he said of the appliance that appeared in the Paris-Match photos. ''What they showed was the freezer from the morgue, which you can see for yourself. It is still there.''
        Though Paris had successfully removed a leader who had proven himself a nuisance with minimal opposition from other African countries, Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's closeness with Mr. Bokassa would come back to haunt him.
        From exile in the Ivory Coast, where he settled after France refused to allow him entry, an embittered Mr. Bokassa began writing about his long and deep ties with the French. The autobiographical writings, published under the title ''My Truth,'' included details of gifts of diamonds that Mr. Bokassa is said to have frequently made to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing.
        Although the book was banned in France, the disclosures are widely believed to have helped doom Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's 1981 re-election bid against his Socialist rival, Francois Mitterrand.
        After returning home to face the charges against him, and serving time in prison, Mr. Bokassa continued to harbor bitter feelings against France, which he said he had served for more than 20 years but which still refused to open its doors to him.
        Mr. Bokassa was applauded by many Central Africans for condemning France when it intervened yet again in the Central African Republic this May to put down an army mutiny .
        ''Every time we have a problem, the French have to come and meddle,'' he said at the time. ''Finally, you have to ask yourself, are we independent, or are we not?''
        Jean-Bedel Bokassa was born on Feb. 22, 1921, at Boubangui, Central African Republic. One of 12 children, he was born to a family of local chiefs that was prominent in Lobaye Province.
        When he was 6, his father, Mindogon Mgboundoulou, was slain at the local prefect's office in a dispute that the future leader later insisted centered on an argument with French administrators in favor of greater rights for native Central Africans. His mother, Marie Yokowo, committed suicide soon afterward.
        Mr. Bokassa was educated in Roman Catholic missionary schools in Bangui and Brazzaville and initially planned to study for the priesthood. But when World War II began in 1939, he joined the French Army as a private.
        In 1940, the young soldier took part in the campaign at Brazzaville that led to the capture of the Vichy governor for the region and the establishment of the Free French Government there.
        Ten years later, Mr. Bokassa, by then a company sergeant, fought with valor in Indochina, where he survived the French defeat at Dien Bien Phu. His dozen decorations, which he proudly showed to visitors almost until his death, included the Croix de Guerre and membership in the Legion of Honor. At his death, Mr. Bokassa's only income was his French captain's pension, paid quarterly at the French Embassy in Bangui.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. Bokassa returned to the intense religion of his youth, praying several times a day with a well-thumbed Bible. The former Emperor, long known for his high living, told a recent visitor that he had renounced alcohol and sexual relations for several years.
        Mr. Bokassa, who married several times, is survived by as many as 60 children.
        The Government announced today that Mr. Bokassa, who had enjoyed something of a return to popularity as a nationalist icon in recent years, would be given a state funeral.
      