
        Dr. Philip J. Fialkow, a leading figure in medical genetics and auto-immune diseases and dean of the School of Medicine at the University of Washington, died along with his wife and three others when their hiking camp in western Nepal was buried by a sudden snowstorm.
        The deaths occurred between Oct. 22, when several guides left the group to go for help, and Sunday, when the bodies were found by searchers. Both Dr. Fialkow and his wife, Helen, were 62. The bodies of two Sherpas and one Nepali were also found in the expedition tent.
        Searchers located the bodies using a description of landmarks from guides who went for help, and found herbs dropped in the snow by a departing guide to identify where to dig in a 15,500-foot-high pass in the Himalayas, the American Embassy told university officers.
        As a medical researcher, Dr. Fialkow studied the genetic basis for leukemia, a cancer of the blood cells. He investigated how and where leukemia begins, and received a merit award from the National Institutes of Health in 1988 for his research, conducted while he was chairman of the department of medicine of the University of Washington.
        Dr. Carlos Pelligrini, chairman of surgery at the medical school, said that as a medical administrator, Dr. Fialkow put in place a vision for the medical school to provide primary medical care throughout the Seattle region.
        Dr. Fialkow led the medical school to open clinics in Seattle to serve 90 percent of King County's 150,000 people.
        He graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in 1952 and from the University of Pennsylvania in 1956 with a bachelor's degree in philosophy. He graduated with honors from Tufts University Medical School in 1960 and went on to Washington to complete a residency and become a fellow in medical genetics.
        He had been vice chairman of the department of medicine and chief of medicine at the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
        His wife was born in Boston and received a B.A. degree from Boston University. The couple had met at the Cancer Research Laboratory at Tufts while Dr. Fialko was a medical student.
        They are survived by a son, Michael, a fourth-year medical student at the school of medicine, and a daughter, Deborah, who lives in the Seattle area.
      