
        Carl Howard Pforzheimer Jr., a leading New York investment banker, book collector and benefactor of medicine, education and the arts, died on Monday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 89 and a former resident of Purchase, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        At his death, he was the senior partner in Carl H. Pforzheimer & Company, which was founded by his father in 1901 because, the son once recalled, his father was ''manic about the horseless carriage'' and had begun to invest in oil. The investment firm continued to concentrate on oil and gas after his death in 1957.
        Mr. Pforzheimer Jr. also took over the work of the family's Carl and Lily Pforzheimer Foundation, which was endowed by his parents in 1942. Among its recent beneficiaries were Mount Sinai Medical Center, Radcliffe College, Bank Street College of Education, Lincoln Center Institute, Wellesley College and Harvard University.
        Mr. Pforzheimer was also a Mount Sinai trustee for more than half a century. Through the foundation, he supported innovative programs at the School of Medicine, scholarships for medical students, nursing scholarships and other programs in clinical care, medical education and scientific research.
        At his father's death, he became the patriarch of a family of bibliophiles and steward of a treasure trove Mr. Pforzheimer Sr. had amassed in his huge library in Purchase. It included a Gutenberg Bible, acquired in 1923, and a wealth of early English literature.
        As the library's focus shifted toward 19th-century English romantics, Mr. Pforzheimer sold the Gutenberg in 1978 to the University of Texas for a record $2.6 million.
        Eight years later, H. Ross Perot acted as middleman in the sale of some 1,100 books and 250 manuscripts, dating from 1475 to 1700, from the Pforzheimer collection. Mr. Perot advanced funds to the University of Texas for that sale, which at  $15 million was considered the largest sale of rare books ever. It helped finance the new scholarly interest in 19th-century works within the Pforzheimer collection.
        Then in 1987, Mr. Pforzheimer and his son, Carl 3d, presented their collection to the New York Public Library. The legacy of three generations, it contains 8,000 original manuscripts and 13,000 printed volumes, including numerous journals, poems, essays, letters and sundry memorabilia of Shelley, Keats and Byron.
        Mr. Pforzheimer, who was born and raised on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, graduated in 1928 from Harvard College and two years later from Harvard Business School..
        He was a colonel on the United States Army General Staff in World War II and later took on a number of civic assignments. He was a member of the New York State Board of Regents from 1958 to 1978, and was vice chairman for the last three of those years. He was a past president or officer of the National Civic League, the National Association of State Boards of Education, the New York Public Library and the Economic Development Corporation of New York City.
        Mr. Pforzheimer is survived by his wife of 65 years, Carol Koehler Pforzheimer; his son, a resident of Scarsdale and managing partner of Pforzheimer & Company; a daughter, Nancy P. Aranson of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      