
        T. Vincent Learson, a former chairman of I.B.M. who led the company's gamble on a new generation of computers in the early 1960's, a project whose success insured I.B.M.'s prosperity for two decades, died on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mr. Learson spent his entire 38-year career at the International Business Machines Corporation, joining it in 1935 after graduating from Harvard University, where he majored in mathematics.
        At I.B.M., he rose through the ranks in sales, marketing and management jobs to become chairman and chief executive for two years starting in 1971.
        In 1973, he retired when he reached 60, which was then the company's mandatory retirement age for executives.
        Perhaps his greatest contribution to I.B.M. and to the rise of the American computer industry came in the early 1960's, when he held the far more modest titles of vice president and later senior vice president. It was in those years that, as a trusted aide to Thomas J. Watson Jr., the I.B.M. chairman, Mr. Learson pushed for the development of the 360 mainframe computer.
        The decision to develop the revolutionary computer, introduced in 1964, was, according to Fortune magazine, ''the most crucial and portentious -- as well as perhaps the riskiest -- business judgment of recent times.''
        Years later, recalling that period at the company, Mr. Watson credited Mr. Learson for being the leading proponent of the 360 project within I.B.M.'s executive corps.
        In his autobiography, ''Father, Son & Co.,'' published in 1990 by Bantam, Mr. Watson described Mr. Learson as ''the father of our new line.''
        Clearly, Mr. Watson had to succumb to Mr. Learson's prodding for the 360 effort to have gone ahead. To develop the computer system, I.B.M. spent an estimated $5 billion over four years, making it, by Fortune's reckoning, the most expensive privately financed commercial project  to that time.
        ''In a management sense, he was certainly the father of the 360,'' said Frederick P. Brooks Jr., a computer scientist who led the 360 development team and is now a professor at the University of North Carolina. ''It was all under his leadership.''
        Tall, sharp-featured and blunt, Mr. Learson was an imposing man. ''He was 6 feet 6 inches tall, and his mere presence in a room was enough to get people's attention,'' Mr. Watson wrote in his autobiography.
        Mr. Learson also had a firm grasp of technology and its implications for I.B.M.'s business. In 1957, Mr. Watson summoned his top management team to his Vermont ski lodge for a few days of lectures by I.B.M. scientists on new computer technology.
        It was the dawn of the digital age, and Mr. Watson wanted to make sure that his management team had a solid grasp of the technology that was moving the industry from punch-card data processing into the era of electronic computing.
        Mr. Brooks was one of the instructors at those ski-lodge sessions. ''We took them though the programming line by line, and Learson understood everything immediately,'' Mr. Brooks recalled. ''He was incredibly sharp.''
        It was Mr. Learson's grasp of the technology, and its potential to help or harm I.B.M., that was behind his belief in the importance of the 360 project, which relied on untested integrated circuitry to make computing cheaper and faster.
        The 360 models also allowed I.B.M. to simplify its product lines, so that its investment in technology paid off handsomely, as the 360 machines could be sold to all kinds of corporate and government customers.
        By the time he became the I.B.M. chairman in 1971, Mr. Learson presided over a vast, immensely profitable enterprise. But he ran the company with an open-door management style and he was at times concerned about I.B.M.'s size and success leading to complacency, a problem that was responsible for the company's troubles more than a decade later.
        Lewis Branscomb, the former chief scientist of I.B.M., recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Learson shortly after joining the company in 1972. Mr. Learson had sent Mr. Branscomb on a tour of I.B.M.'s research centers around the world.
        On Mr. Branscomb's return, Mr. Learson listened to the scientist with his feet on his desk, smoking a cigar. At one point, Mr. Branscomb said  I.B.M. looked like a great company to him. Mr. Learson replied, ''Well, it is a big company, that's for sure.''
        Mr. Branscomb, an emeritus professor at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, said: ''That really impressed me. I.B.M. was going great guns at the time. But he realized that being a big company didn't make you a great company.''
        Mr. Learson was born in Boston, the son of a sea captain. The young Mr. Learson became an avid sailor and all during his years at I.B.M. he was a fiercely competitive yachtsman, as a leading member of the American Yacht Club in Rye, N.Y. In 1966, he won the Newport-to-Bermuda yacht race.
        After he retired from I.B.M., Mr. Learson was on the boards of several corporations. For two years, he was Ambassador at Large and chief American delegate for the Law of the Sea Conference, a multinational effort to establish global rules for maritime issues ranging from fishing rights to pollution. The conference resulted in a treaty in 1982.
        Mr. Learson is survived by his wife of 57 years, Gladys, and four daughters, Martha Allen of Houston, Kate Emmerling and Elizabeth Daniels, both of Manhattan, and Elaine Schoch of London.
      