
        Lou Singer, who guided thousands and thousands of visitors through the other-borough charms of Brooklyn and sang its praises in accents compatible with that environment, died on Tuesday in Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 71 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications after  surgery for cancer, his wife, Leona, said.
        Until his final bout with illness, Mr. Singer was booking tours of Brooklyn streets, those that are mean and those that boast reminiscent grandeur. The fame of Singer's Tours had spread to the far corners of the United States, to Brazil, to Britain and to Australia, even to that most unlikely center of recognition across the river, Manhattan.
        So popular were his tours that he even extended them over the East River bridges to include ''noshing'' visits to the Lower East Side.
        Mr. Singer was a veritable encyclopedia of Brooklyn's ethnic, architectural and culinary history. Passengers who crowded into the Singer van were treated to a nonstop commentary that opened the eyes of returned natives and non-Brooklynites alike. Mr. Singer believed that everyone might have some Brooklyn connection, if only sentimental.
        Under his guidance, a Brooklyn emerged that was as luminous as any cathedral town of Europe. His odysseys of eating, adventure and esthetics took his tourists to the elegant enclaves of Brooklyn Heights, the new Russian stir of Brighton Beach, the beauty of Fort Greene's Tiffany windows and Lafayette Presbyterian Church, the neat, middle-class houses of Bedford-Stuyvesant, the frenetic doings of Orthodox Jewish Borough Park. His globe-trotting extended from Gowanus to East New York, and included the bad, the beautiful, the banal and the bumptious.
        Mr. Singer was not a Brooklyn native. He was born in Manhattan but moved to Brownsville at an early age. He fell into professional touring by accident about 30 years ago, his wife recalled on Tuesday. He had dropped out of Thomas Jefferson High School as a teen-ager, although the lack of academic sheepskins never inhibited his zest for history and architecture. He served in the Army, worked as a warehouseman and, after marriage, moved with his wife to a co-op in downtown Brooklyn.
        ''We couldn't get The Times delivered, so Lou decided to deliver it himself,'' Mrs. Singer said. His job as a newspaper route driver sent him through territory that caught the attention of his quick mind. His eyes wandered over old stoops and surviving cartouches that others never noticed.
        He began taking friends on his  excursions. As Brooklyn's brownstone revival moved into full swing, he found himself escorting strangers who paid for a full or a half-day survey of the borough.
        When it was suggested that he hire others to handle the overflow from his van, Mr. Singer emphatically resisted. If Lou Singer was not speaking to the tourists, it would not be a Singer tour. His speaking style was clear and crisp, devoid of Brooklyn schmaltz, and he numbed his listeners with infinite detail about the lintels on this building and the famous tenants who lived in that building. Small wonder that he showed up in a Brazilian guide book to Gotham and the London newspapers.
        In addition to his wife, Leona, Mr. Singer is survived by a daughter,  Judy Stevens of Brooklyn; a son, Robert, of Kinnelon, N.J.; a brother, Max, of Sunrise, Fla.; two sisters,  Fay Trager of Franklin Square, L.I., and Myrna Davis of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      