
        Hugh Bullock, a financial pioneer who sought to bring dignity and respectability to the sometimes controversial world of mutual funds, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 98.
        As president of Calvin Bullock Ltd., a firm founded by and named after his father, Mr. Bullock was a leader in the field of managing mutual funds, which were developed in the 1920's as a way for Americans of average means to invest in the stock and bond markets. Mr. Bullock was among the industry executives who helped write the law that regulates mutual funds, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
        The law was written in response to the huge losses suffered by Americans in investment trusts, the precursors of mutual funds. Investors in the Bullock trusts lost $42 million between 1927 and 1935, according to the Securities and Exchange Commission, which held an inquiry into the trusts at which Mr. Bullock was a leading witness.
        In the 1950's, when mutual funds  began to be popular, the business ''was full of hard-driving types, with ulcers,'' John Brooks wrote in a profile of Mr. Bullock published in The New Yorker in 1958. But Mr. Bullock's firm ''has somehow succeeded not only in maintaining an imposing serenity but in building up and preserving a reputation as a champion of conservatism and tradition,'' Mr. Brooks added.
        As for Mr. Bullock himself, Mr. Brooks wrote, he was ''a tall, earnest-looking, strikingly handsome man'' with a taste for ''detachable stiff collars, double-breasted suits, outdoor sports and old-fashioned expressions like, 'I pledge you.' ''
        His history of mutual funds, ''The Story of Investment Companies,'' was published in 1959 by the Columbia University Press.
        Mr. Bullock, who had opened his family company's office on Wall Street in 1927 and become president in 1946 after his father's death, sold the company to the Equitable Life Assurance Company in 1984.
        A noted Anglophile, Mr. Bullock was for many years the president of the Pilgrims of the United States, a group formed in 1903 to foster Anglo-American friendship.
        Mr. Bullock, who was born in Denver, graduated from Williams College in 1921. He was a lieutenant in the Army in World War I and a lieutenant colonel in World War II.
        With his wife, the former Marie Leontine Graves, who died in 1986, he was a founder of the Academy of American Poets, which gave stipends to writers. He served on the boards of several hospitals and was active in charitable and educational organizations. Mr. Bullock is survived by two daughters, Fleur Weymouth and Fair Alice McCormick, and three grandsons.
      