
        Eric Hebborn, a self-proclaimed forger of Old Master paintings and drawings whose works found their way into some of the world's great collections, died on  Thursday at San Giacomo Hospital here. He was 61.
        Mr. Hebborn collapsed in the Trastevere district, where he had lived much of  the last 30 years. The Italian authorities have ordered an autopsy to determine  the cause of death.
        In a memoir published in 1993, Mr. Hebborn disclosed details of a lifelong career spent faking the works of Old Masters. Hebborns bearing names like Bruegel, Piranesi, Van Dyck and Corot found homes, Mr. Hebborn wrote, in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the British Museum and the Pierpont Morgan Library.  He said others remained, undetected, in private collections throughout the world.
        To those who admired him, Mr. Hebborn was a talented if eccentric figure who  did little harm. Col. Roberto Conforti, the head of an Italian police unit that  combats art theft, was quoted today as describing Mr. Hebborn's paintings as often more beautiful than the originals. "He once told me," Colonel Conforti said, " 'Others paint nature. I paint art.' "
        But critics, and there were many, accused him of hypocritically justifying his activity in his autobiography, "Drawn to Trouble: Confessions of a Master Forger" (Random House), as a moral crusade to deflate the pretensions of the official art world, while at the same time reaping profit from works of forgery.
        In 1994, a former partner and lover, Graham Smith, sought to debunk him, contending that some of Mr. Hebborn's proclaimed fakery was itself faked. In remarks published in Art and Auction magazine, Mr. Smith contended, and the claim proved to be true, that Mr. Hebborn had not, as he had boasted, produced a Bruegel etching now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mr. Hebborn dismissed the challenge as "bad memory" on Mr. Smith's part.
        Mr. Hebborn was born in England in a working-class family. As a youth, he won prizes at the Royal Academy in London, and later acquired useful skills the school did not teach by working as an art restorer.
        "I began, little by little, to develop my abilities and improve my knowledge  of the materials and methods of the Old Masters until I would one day be able to 'restore' a whole painting, from nothing at all," he wrote in his memoir.
        Amiable and engaging, with bushy hair and a beard, he struck up friendships in high places, including one with Sir Anthony Blunt, surveyor of the Queen's pictures, director of the Courtauld Institute of Art in London and a Soviet spy, from whom Mr. Hebborn said he learned much about the politics of art collecting.
        Mr. Hebborn's forging was unmasked by dealers in the late 1970's, though he never faced criminal prosecution. He spent his time in recent years painting and teaching painting.
      