
        Eddie Harris, a tenor saxophonist  whose compositions brought him early popular success, died on Tuesday at the University of Southern California Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Lolita Marie Harris, his daughter.
        Mr. Harris never stuck with one style for long. His first recording, the title song from the film ''Exodus,''  was released in 1961 and sold more than two million copies. From then on, Mr. Harris, a product of DuSable High School in Chicago, a hotbed for jazz, was an inveterate experimenter.
        Though his training ground was harmonically adventurous be-bop, he tried to assimilate electronic music through his use of the Varitone, an attachment that amplified and distorted a saxophone. Mr. Harris experimented with instruments as well, including fitting trumpets and trombones with saxophone reeds. He also delved deeply into soul jazz, producing a highly successful collaboration with the pianist Les McCann at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland.
        But through all the experimentation, Mr. Harris maintained an allegiance to the adventurous aspects of mainstream jazz. His most famous composition, ''Freedom Jazz Dance,'' which was taken up by other leading improvisers, including Miles Davis, was based on one chord and the interval of a fourth, giving the soloists plenty of room to stretch. He further demonstrated his willingness to stretch the boundaries of jazz when he recorded the album ''Eddie Harris in the U.K.,'' which included the rock musicians Steve Winwood and Jeff Beck.
        For much of the last decade, Mr. Harris recorded and performed in more traditional settings, as the leader of acoustic quartets and quintets. In that context, he was an exceptional improviser, producing music that was flowing, harmonically sensitive and exciting.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Sara, and another daughter, Yvonne Marie Harris of Silver Springs, Md.
      