
        Dr. Bertram Warren Carnow, a thoracic specialist in environmental and occupational health who helped write pollution-control standards and was a consultant to scores of governmental, institutional and industrial clients, died on Monday at Evanston (Ill.) Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Barrington Hills, in suburban Chicago.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Carnow retired in 1992 as professor of preventive and occupational health sciences after 20 years of teaching at the University of Illinois School of Medicine in Chicago. He was the founding director of the university's Environmental Health Resource Center, where he developed some 20 basic scientific criteria for use by state and Federal agencies in setting safe levels of asbestos, lead, carbon monoxide and other air and water contaminants.
        In 1974 he and his wife and collaborator, Dr. Shirley A. Conibear, founded Carnow, Conibear & Associates of Chicago, a multidisciplinary health consulting firm in which he remained active until his death. He had a role in the cleanup after the 1992 Chicago flood and worked with public agencies to rid Chicago public schools of asbestos and lead contamination.
        He also founded, in 1977, the Great Lakes Center for Occupational and Environmental Safety and Health, an educational research center, based at the medical school. Besides carrying out far-flung research for for the National Institutes of Health and the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the center trains health care professionals in specialties like radon control and lead abatement. It also serves the World Health Organization as a collaborating center for occupational and environmental health.
        A physician and teacher, Dr. Carnow trained hundreds of public health professionals in occupational and environmental medicine. He published hundreds of articles on his areas of expertise for both fellow scientists and lay readers.
        Dr. Carnow was born in Philadelphia, graduated from New York University in 1947 and earned his medical degree at the Chicago Medical School in 1951. He practiced clinical medicine in suburban Chicago from 1955 to 1967, when he joined the University of Illinois Medical School to investigate the health effects of air pollution.
        He helped establish the university's School of Public Health in 1972 and received Federal money to start its Great Lakes Center, which he directed until 1987.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Dr. Donald Carnow, of Evanston, and Dr. David Carnow, of Jersey City; four daughters, Tammi Bechard, of Stratford, Conn., Rebecca Carnow Jones, of Jacksonville, Ill., and Kalinka and Tina Carnow of Chicago; two brothers, Harry, of Woodland Hills, Calif., and Stanley, of Palm Desert, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      