
        Paul A. Gorman, a past president of Western Electric, the former Bell System's manufacturing arm, who later ran the Penn Central Transportation Company and the International Paper Company, died on Thursday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 88.
        A fall in his Delray Beach home caused his death, Ruthlyn Newell, an AT&T spokeswoman, said yesterday.
        Mr. Gorman, who was born in Carrollton, Mo., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri, which later awarded him an honorary doctor of laws degree. The son of a farmer, he raised pigs as a teen-ager to help pay his  college costs.
        Mr. Gorman began his career with Western Electric in 1929 at the company's works in Hawthorne, Ill. Early in his career, he held various positions in accounting, finance, engineering, plant supervision, labor relations and personnel.
        He also held executive positions with the parent American Telephone and Telegraph Company and the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company. He was named the 12th president of Western Electric, which then had its headquarters in Manhattan, on Jan. 1, 1964. He held the position until his retirement on Nov. 30, 1969, after 40 years with the Bell System.
        But the business career of Mr. Gorman, then 62, was far from finished.
        Two weeks later, in a move that surprised Wall Street, Mr. Gorman took over as president and chief administrative officer of the Penn Central, then the nation's largest railroad.
        Less than six months after he got there, the railroad's hitherto unpublicized cash flow problems caused Stuart T. Saunders to resign as chairman and chief executive. Mr. Gorman was named his successor, and soon after that, Penn Central filed for reorganization under the Federal Bankruptcy Act. Four trustees were brought in to manage the railroad's operations, leaving Mr. Gorman with little to do. He resigned on Aug. 7, 1970.
        Scarcely six months later, Mr. Gorman was back in an executive suite, this time at the International Paper Company, the world's largest paper manufacturer. He was chairman, president and chief executive officer from 1971 until 1973, when he retired.
        During his career, Mr. Gorman sat on a number of corporate boards, including  those of the Bankers Trust Company of New York, the Campbell Soup Company, the Prudential Insurance Company of America and International Paper.
        Survivors include his wife, Althea Richards Gorman of Delray Beach; four stepchildren, Suzanne Johnston Clar of Berkeley Heights, N.J., Donald W. Johnston Jr. of Maplewood, N.J., Althea Dilword Richards of Middleburg, Va., and William R. Richards of Newburyport, Mass.; 17 step-grandchildren, and 15 step-great-grandchildren. Two previous wives died before Mr. Gorman.
      