
        J. Kevin McNiff, who left the priesthood to pursue a personal path of service to the downtrodden and followed it all the way into politics and a vocation in the New York State prison system, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Delmar, near Albany. He was 64.
        The cause was throat cancer, his family said.
        Mr. McNiff was deputy commissioner of correctional services in the administration of Gov. Hugh L. Carey and later worked for five years as chairman of the Commission on Corrections, a state watchdog group that monitors prison conditions.
        Mr. McNiff was born in Manhattan and grew up wanting to be a Roman Catholic priest. He graduated from St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers and was ordained in 1957.
        Assigned to a parish in Washington Heights, he developed a reputation as a charismatic figure, but he chafed at ministering to a middle-class congregation while thousands of New Yorkers were cut off from the church and community institutions.
        Determined to make a difference in the lives of those who he believed needed help the most, he focused his attention on East Harlem. With some like-minded priests, he established an independent outreach program on an East 100th Street block then known as one of the most troubled in the city.
        After opening a storefront center, he spent increasing amounts of time on the block, getting to know the residents and their problems, becoming an accepted member of the neighborhood and offering whatever counsel and help he could.
        Church authorities may have had some misgivings about his independent course, but some members of his Washington Heights congregation were so impressed by their young priest's dedication that they became volunteers, among them Alicia McDonald, a nurse whose arrival on East 100th Street soon added a new dimension to Mr. McNiff's growing doubts about his priestly vocation.
        When what had begun as mutual admiration and respect between program director and volunteer blossomed into romantic love, Mr. McNiff left the priesthood in 1967 and the couple were married.
        Seeking privacy, away from the controversy their marriage had created, the couple settled in Rochester, a city Mr. McNiff selected because  its large Hispanic population was similar to the one he had been serving in New York City.
        Over the next few years, Mr. McNiff taught in Rochester high schools, worked as a counselor at the State University College at Brockport, received a master's degree in education from the University of Rochester, supervised bilingual programs for the city school system and developed a new interest in politics.
        Stirred by Senator Robert F. Kennedy's political agenda and stunned by his assassination in 1968, Mr. McNiff became a Democratic Party activist, something of a quixotic venture in heavily Republican Monroe County.
        When he came within a few votes of winning a seat on the County Legislature, it was considered something of a miracle. It was considered even more of a miracle when Mr. McNiff helped deliver Rochester to then-Representative Hugh L. Carey of Brooklyn over a Rochester native, Howard J. Samuels, in the 1974 Democratic gubernatorial primary.
        When Mr. Carey became Governor the next year, Mr. NcNiff was named deputy director of education for the state prison system and once again worked to improve distressed lives.
        Finding that illiterate and semiliterate prisoners were being taught to read from textbooks designed for 5- and 6-year-olds, he helped revamp the entire primary-grades curriculum, substituting materials and lesson plans more suitable to adults.
        His work was so successful that he was promoted to deputy commissioner, a position he held until 1980,  when he was named chairman of the Commission on Corrections. He remained on the commission until 1985, when Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appointed him a member of the Board of Parole. He served until last year.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Meg, of Valley Cottage; two sons, Joseph of Manhattan and Eamon of Delmar; a sister, Kathleen Pederson of Rockaway, N.J., and two brothers, Charles of New Milford, N.J., and William of Lancaster, Pa.
        Correction:  November 16, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Monday about J. Kevin McNiff, a former New York State corrections official, misstated the given name of one of his sons. He is John McNiff, not Joseph.
      