
        Rear Adm. John G. Crommelin, a career Navy man who was air officer aboard the carrier Enterprise during six engagements in the Pacific in World War II and later became an outspoken critic of policies seeking to unify the armed forces, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Montgomery, Ala. He was 94.
        His death was announced last week by the Association of Naval Aviation.
        Admiral Crommelin, who was born in Montgomery, was the eldest of five brothers, who all graduated from the United States Naval Academy, served in the Navy in World War II and saw combat in the Pacific. Two of his brothers were killed in the war, in which Admiral Crommelin became such an aggressive combatant that he became known in the Navy as ''bomb-run John.''
        He was executive officer as well as air officer aboard the Enterprise and was chief of staff aboard the carrier Liscombe Bay when it was sunk in the Makin Island campaign off the Gilbert Islands.
        In 1949, he was a captain serving at Navy headquarters in Washington  when steps toward unification of the armed forces were being discussed and made. But strategic, organizational and personal differences between the Navy and the Air Force -- and also, on a lesser scale, between the Army and the Navy -- exploded into a series of charges, countercharges and public hearings that shook the Pentagon.
        Captain Crommelin, as he then was, publicly complained that the Defense Department was scuttling naval air power and showing improper favor to the Air Force. He also asserted that ''a Prussian General Staff system of the type employed by Hitler'' was being imposed on the armed forces under unification.
        He was relieved of his duties at the headquarters and publicly reprimanded by Admiral Forrest P. Sherman, Chief of Naval Operations, for making public confidential Navy letters linking top admirals to active opposition against unification.
        Captain Crommelin was transferred to San Francisco to be air officer of the Western Sea Frontier. After he continued his criticism in the face of orders to keep silent, he was ordered by Admiral Sherman to be furloughed at half pay, beginning early in 1950. That year, The New York Times's military affairs expert Hanson W. Baldwin wrote that Captain Crommelin was a ''stormy petrel who wouldn't shut up.''
        Then, the captain moved to his native Alabama, applied for retirement and ended his three-decade Navy career in May 1950, with the rank of rear admiral because of his combat record.
        In later years, he operated part of his family plantation, named Harrogate Springs, in Elmore County, raising a variety of crops. He also ran unsuccessfully for various public offices. He was a candidate in the Democratic Presidential primary in New Hampshire in 1968 and also repeatedly announced himself as a candidate for the United States Senate. The National States Rights Party, advocating white supremacy, nominated him for Vice President in 1960.
        In retirement, Admiral Crommelin became known as a supporter of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin, and also as an avowed anti-Semite who was active in segregationist circles. It was reported in 1960 that he was a self-styled ''white man's candidate'' for public office and called Jews the real enemy of ''white Christian Alabamians,'' asserting that they controlled the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        The future admiral grew up in Montgomery and in Elmore County, in east-central Alabama, and graduated in 1923 from the Naval Academy.
        He married Lillian E. Landis in 1930; she died in 1991.
        He is survived by one brother, Quentin, a retired Navy captain, of Wetumpka, Ala.; two daughters, Katharine V. Milton of Berkeley, Calif., and Jill B. Crommelin of Wetumpka, Ala.; a son, John, of Atlanta; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      