
        J. R. Jayewardene, a former President of Sri Lanka who modernized and reshaped the country politically and was later criticized for his handling of ethnic tensions at its most critical moments, died yesterday in Colombo. He was 90.
        Junius Richard Jayewardene -- who was always known as J. R. -- was the last of a generation of leaders who came of age politically before his island nation, then known as Ceylon, achieved independence in 1948.
        When he became Prime Minister in 1977 and President the next year as a result of a rewriting of the Constitution, Mr. Jayewardene began to dismantle the socialist economic system. ''The early years of his administration were wonderful years,'' said Howard Wriggins, who was American Ambassador in Colombo, the capital, from 1977 to 1980. ''The whole economy turned around.''
        ''He did remarkable things for Sri Lanka,'' said Mr. Wriggins, who is now retired and the co-author with a Sri Lankan historian, Kingsley de Silva, of a book on the former President, titled ''J. R. Jayewardene of Sri Lanka: A Political Biography.''
        ''On economic policy, he was one of the early ones to move toward the free market in a country that had been locked into the socialist myth,'' Mr. Wriggins said. ''If they had moved 10 years earlier, Sri Lanka might have been one of the export successes.''
        But Sri Lanka, known for its high rates of literacy and education and strong democratic and judicial institutions, fell prey to ethnic divisions. In 1983 a group of Sinhalese Sri Lankan soldiers were killed in an ambush, and tensions rose to an explosive level. In the crucial early moments when the country's Sinhalese-speaking, largely Buddhist majority  took revenge on the ethnic Tamil, largely Hindu minority, Mr. Jayewardene, a Sinhalese Buddhist, inexplicably withdrew from sight and did nothing to stop the violence.
        Gangs of thugs who, witnesses said, were led by members of the President's United National Party,  went on a rampage against Tamils in Colombo, killing many and destroying their homes and businesses. In the civil war that still continues, more than 47,000 people have died -- Buddhists, Hindus, Christians and Muslims.
        To compound the country's problems, in 1987 Mr. Jayewardene invited India to send troops to disarm the Tamil rebels. That action set off an extremely violent reaction among radical Sinhalese nationalists in the south of the country, who -- like the President himself -- blamed India for having earlier armed and trained the Tamils.
        A Sinhalese nationalist in a presidential honor guard tried to club India's Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, with a rifle, when he came to Colombo to sign the agreement. In towns and villages, thousands died in the terrorism that followed, at least some of it Government-inspired or officially condoned, especially during the administration of Mr. Jayewardene's successor, President Ranasinghe Premadasa, who was also Sinhalese.
        After stepping down from the presidency in 1988, Mr. Jayewardene withdrew from public life. In an interview then, he defended his record by comparing it with previous administrations led by Solomon W. R. D. Bandaranaike and then by his widow, Sirimavo Bandaranaike. He seemed oblivious to the violence  and instability around him.
        ''We have a free press; the previous Government nationalized the press,'' declared Mr. Jayewardene, who said he had modeled his otherwise authoritarian presidency in part on Charles de Gaulle's France. ''Political parties can operate freely. This is the essence of democracy: Freedom to vote and freedom to elect a president.''
        Mr. Jayewardene grew up in a privileged, English-speaking family in Colombo, and was looked after by a British nanny during an age when Sri Lanka's hallmarks were an old-fashioned civility and a formality that are all but gone.
        He was a bookish intellectual and Buddhist who was able to detach himself from the world around him -- too much so, his critics say. All his life, even when he was traveling abroad, he wore the traditional Sri Lankan simple white sarong and long white shirt.
        When he retired, Mr. Jayewardene said he had great faith in the country's power to survive -- even while bombs were killing hundreds of innocent people and bodies were being  strewn across the verdant landscape of the island the ancient Arab traders called Serendip. A burgeoning tourist industry was shattered, and the freed economy was collapsing as reports of terrorism, curfews and rights violations circled the globe.
        ''Sri Lanka withstood several coups and assassinations and attempts to overthrow democracy,'' he said serenely. ''In the midst of all that, it seems to be quite strong.''
        Mr. Jayewardene is survived by his wife, Elina, and a son, Ravi.
      