
        The Rev. John R. Cortelyou, who wrapped up a 60-year academic association with DePaul University as its eighth president, serving in a period of growth and turbulence, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and a resident of the Chicago campus.
        He had been in failing health since the summer, the university said.
        Father Cortelyou was president from 1964 to 1981. He guided the university -- named for Saint Vincent de Paul, founder of the charitable order -- through the civil-rights and anti-war stirrings of the 1960's.
        He then shaped the decisions of the 1970's that brought DePaul considerably more acreage and buildings, with additions to the Lincoln Park Campus and expansion of the Loop Campus. New construction included DePaul's first permanent residence hall, the Schmitt Academic Center and the Stuart Center.
        Father Cortelyou helped revamp the undergraduate curriculum and raised the standards of research by inaugurating the first doctoral programs. He also oversaw the development of the theater school into a prominent theater conservatory.
        After he stepped down as president, he was university chancellor and chief fund-raiser until 1993. He continued his daily work as chancellor emeritus until the summer.
        John Cortelyou was born in Chicago and graduated from DePaul Academy in 1932. He completed his collegiate and theological education at St. Mary's Seminary in Perryville, Mo., and was ordained in 1940.
        Returning to Chicago, he taught at DePaul Academy, earned an M.S. in biology and joined the university faculty. He added a doctorate from Northwestern University in 1949 and undertook a career as a comparative endocrinologist. He served as chairman of the department of biological sciences in 1951 and held that position until his appointment as president.
        He was one of the university presidents who helped the Chicago Board of Education weather years of stormy racial confrontations over the school integration decreed in the 1960's.
        Father Cortelyou is survived by a stepbrother, Charles Burgess, of Chicago.
      