
        Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Chicago who as a moderate church leader was at the center of almost every major development in American Catholicism since the late 1960's, died early yesterday at his residence. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, which the Cardinal announced in August had spread from his pancreas to his liver.
        Cardinal Bernardin's death robs the church of a skilled mediator who could find common ground among sharply clashing viewpoints and sometimes bickering personalities. But it also creates a vacancy in one of the most important archdioceses in the United States, and Pope John Paul II's choice of a successor will have a major impact on the direction of the American church.
        The Cardinal's abilities as a reconciler were rooted in his personality, which blended the caution and precision of a painstaking administrator with the calm and patience of a man of prayer.
        The son of Italian parents who had settled in South Carolina, Cardinal Bernardin also displayed a familial warmth balanced by a diplomat's tact and sensitivity to nuance.
        These traits marked his last months no less than his earlier career. In early August, less than two weeks before he learned that his cancer was inoperable, he announced a plan to bring together Catholics with different points of view, to counter the polarization he feared was blocking candid discussion of problems imperiling the church.
        Similarly, two months ago, he received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Government's highest civilian honor, but carefully recalled in his remarks that the church ''rejects the killing of the unborn'' -- signaling his agreement with the hierarchy's criticism of President Clinton's veto of a bill barring certain late-term abortions.
        In the final week of his life, he wrote a letter to the Supreme Court urging it not to recognize a right to doctor-assisted suicide. Although the letter referred to his experience of terminal illness, it was remarkably dispassionate, focused on the principles that he thought should guide public policy rather than his personal feelings.
        In a Pastoral Letter, Much Political Debate
        Cardinal Bernardin first established himself in the public mind most clearly in the early 1980's when, as Archbishop of Cincinnati, he oversaw the the drafting of a ''The Challenge of Peace,'' a pastoral letter on nuclear arms and American defense policy.
        The letter reasserted the church's condemnation of direct attacks on enemy civilians and therefore any nuclear strategy that simply targeted Soviet cities. It warned against a destabilizing arms race, but narrowly granted that nuclear deterrence could be morally acceptable if used to buy time for eventual disarmament.
        Successive drafts of the letter were made public and provoked heated debate between the bishops and the Reagan Administration, then engaged in a major arms buildup.  Approved by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in May 1983, the letter was a theologically and militarily sophisticated document that has become a standard resource for study and discussion in military circles.
        Midway in that effort Pope John Paul II named the American prelate to become Archbishop of Chicago, where he was formally installed on Aug. 25, 1982, at the age of 54. Six months later he was elevated to cardinal. The archdiocese, with a total Catholic population of about 2.3 million, is now the second largest in the nation after Los Angeles.
        In the new post, Cardinal Bernardin had to overcome the legacy of his predecessor, John Cardinal Cody, whose autocratic and reclusive style had alienated many of the archdiocese's priests and fed suspicions of financial improprieties, which were the subject of a Government investigation. Despite the lack of any prosecution, the controversy haunted Cardinal Cody's last days.
        After the new Archbishop's first meeting with Chicago priests, ''everyone felt that the problems of the past had vanished,'' Auxiliary Bishop Raymond Goedert of Chicago recalled.
        At the end of 1983, as the new chairman of the bishops' Committee for Pro-Life Activities, Cardinal Bernardin gave an address at Fordham University in New York, recasting the church's opposition to abortion as part of a ''consistent ethic of life'' that he said should embrace other issues as well, from poverty to capital punishment and the nuclear arms race.
        A Call for Turning Belief Into Action
        That speech and others like it expressed his conviction that the church should not let itself be perceived as a single-issue lobby or the ally of one political outlook, conservative or liberal. In a 1990 speech at Georgetown University, he insisted that Catholic politicians who professed to be personally anti-abortion had to translate their moral belief into public action, at least speaking out if not supporting changes in the law. But he said that honest differences could exist over what forms of action were most appropriate.
        Again, he appeared to be seeking a mediating position between Catholic politicians who maintained that their personal moral views on abortion had no relevance to public policy and more aggressive church leaders who gave the impression that church teaching dictated a very specific policy on abortion or abortion financing.
        In 1991, after scandals involving the sexual abuse of minors by priests shook the church in Chicago and elsewhere across the country, Cardinal Bernardin authorized a massive review of allegations against priests and then established a new committee, dominated by lay people, to investigate accusations, to recommend removal of priests and to provide help to victims.
        The Cardinal hoped that the new mechanism would be a model that other dioceses might adopt. But on Nov. 12, 1993, a 34-year-old man, a onetime seminary student, filed a suit accusing Cardinal Bernardin and another priest of having abused him 17 years earlier. Cable News Network featured a dramatic interview with the complainant, and the accusation was consequently highlighted by much of the news media.
        Cardinal Bernardin denied the charges. ''I have never abused anyone, at any time and at any place,'' he said at a news conference shortly after the accusations were made. ''I can assure you that in all my life I've led a chaste, celibate life.''
        Four months later, the accusations  were withdrawn. The accuser declared that he no longer trusted his recollections, which, it emerged in pretrial hearings, had only been voiced during undocumented sessions with an amateur hypnotist.
        Despite the Cardinal's outward serenity and the support he received from fellow bishops and the Vatican as well as many Catholics, the episode was a humiliating and ''very painful'' ordeal, he said, one resolved only at the end of 1994 when, as a gesture of reconciliation, he met and prayed with his former accuser.
        That moving conclusion to the episode left the Cardinal's stature increased rather than diminished, but it also made the discovery, less than six months later, that he had pancreatic cancer an unusually cruel blow.
        An Unusual Path To a Top Position
        Long before these events placed him in the public's eye, the future Cardinal had occupied pivotal positions within the church. He did not follow, however, the usual course to high Catholic church office -- early seminary training and study in Rome at the elite North American College.
        Joseph Louis Bernardin (pronounced BURN-ahr-deen) was born on April 2, 1928, in Columbia, S.C., where his parents had settled from  the Northern Italian mountain village of Tonadico. His father, a stonecutter, died of cancer in 1934 when his son was only 6, and his mother supported the family by working as a seamstress. Young Joseph attended public schools and spent a year in premedical studies at the University of South Carolina before choosing the priesthood.
        He matriculated at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore, where he received a bachelor's degree in philosophy, and at Catholic University in Washington, where he earned a master's in education. Ordained a priest in Charleston, S.C., in 1952, he turned down an opportunity to study in Rome in order to stay closer to his ailing mother. He taught high school, did parish work and handled a variety of administrative tasks in the diocese of Charleston.
        In 1966, Archbishop Paul J. Hallinan of Atlanta, who had known the young priest in Charleston, nominated him to become an auxiliary bishop in Atlanta -- and, at 38, he became the youngest bishop in the nation.  Scarcely two years later, he was named the first General Secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and its social action agency, the United States Catholic Conference.
        It was a moment when that body was being expanded and reorganized to reflect the Second Vatican Council's emphasis on the collective role of bishops, alongside the papacy, in governing the church. Bishop Bernardin served in that key staff position in Washington until the end of 1972, when Pope Paul VI appointed him Archbishop of Cincinnati. But two years later he was elected president of the national conference, the first non-cardinal to hold the post.
        As general secretary and then president of the conference, he helped steer the hierarchy through debates over the Vietnam War; through the turbulent Catholic reaction to Pope Paul VI's 1968 encyclical ''Humanae Vitae,'' which restated the church's condemnation of contraception; through early skirmishes in the national struggle about abortion; through the racial tensions that followed the assassination of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., and through three Presidential elections.
        He worked closely with Archbishop Jean Jadot, the papal representative to the American church between 1973 and 1980, to nominate dozens of moderate, pastorally-minded bishops to head American dioceses.
        All his talents as a mediator came into play during the drafting of the letter on nuclear arms. The drafting committee included Bishop John O'Connor, then in charge of chaplains for the armed forces, and Auxiliary Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit, a confirmed pacifist.
        A Continuing Role As a Troubleshooter
        Cardinal Bernardin's influence began to wane after 1984, with the appointments of Bishop Bernard Law as Archbishop of Boston and Bishop O'Connor as Archbishop of New York. Both men were quickly given the red hats of cardinals and gained reputations as spokesmen for Pope John Paul II's emphasis on doctrinal and organizational constancy rather than pastoral flexibility.
        Still, whenever the American bishops and the Vatican were faced with impasses, they repeatedly turned to Cardinal Bernardin as troubleshooter and mediator.
        In 1986, for example, when Rome effectively stripped Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen of Seattle of his powers following reports that he was tolerating irregularities in church practice, many bishops were appalled. Outrage among Seattle priests and many Catholics elsewhere threatened to cast a cloud over Pope John Paul's 1987 visit to the United States.
        Carefully avoiding any overt criticism of the Vatican, Cardinal Bernardin mounted an American effort to play ''honest broker'' between Rome and Seattle. With Cardinal O'Connor and Archbishop John Quinn of San Francisco, he worked out a compromise temporarily restoring Archbishop Hunthausen to his position and his dignity while setting the stage for an eventual successor acceptable to both sides. An obstacle to a successful papal visit was removed.
        Not long after that visit, however, a rare public dispute broke out within the hierarchy. Cardinals O'Connor and Law disavowed a statement on AIDS issued by the national conference's administrative board. Backed by the Vatican, the two Cardinals called for unqualified opposition to any public education campaigns that included information about condoms.
        Again, Cardinal Bernardin steered the hierarchy clear of an embarrassing showdown, winning retention of the original statement, which addressed a wide range of AIDS-related issues, while supplementing it with a new one that yielded to the critics on the point about condoms.
        Not everyone was pleased with this kind of finesse. Some traditionalists charged him with compromising Catholic principles. And proponents of changes in church life, although never so vehement, were disappointed by his steady loyalty to the institution and his rejection of frontal challenges to conservative authorities.
        In 1976, for example, a national assembly of Catholics, meeting in Detroit to wind up the Catholic bishops' celebration of the American Bicentennial, endorsed a sweeping agenda of changes in church practice. These included the ordination of women and married men, a reconsideration of church teaching on birth control and democratic roles for lay people in choosing bishops and on parish councils.
        As president of the bishops' conference, Archbishop Bernardin quietly buried the proposals in bureaucratic reviews.
        After a Diagnosis, An Added Ministry
        Besides his firm belief in the institutional church and its authority, the guiding stars of Cardinal Bernardin's career were his commitments to widespread consultation and incremental change. He was particularly concerned that the bishops would evolve the organizational structures and attitudes essential to providing collective leadership to the American church. That meant following proper procedures even at the cost of submerging individual personality.
        But a new, much more personal phase in his ministry began with the discovery of cancer in June 1995. By September of that year, after undergoing surgery and an intensive cycle of chemotherapy and radiation treatment, he returned to work, but with an additional ministry to hundreds of cancer patients and to the dying.
        His major addresses, whether on the ethical dimensions of changes in the health care system or on religion and politics, remained as analytic as always but added the personal note of a man whose thoughts had been focused by the prospect of death.
        ''I came to believe in a new way that the Lord would walk with me through this journey of illness,'' he wrote in a pastoral letter on health care. He told interviewers of his nighttime fears, his bouts of weeping -- but also of an abiding trust in God that enabled him to see ''death as a friend, as the transition from earthly life to life eternal.''
        Saying that ''in a sense, he and I are in the same boat,'' in September he visited and prayed with a man about to be executed for a murderous rampage in 1981. ''Capital punishment fuels the cycle of violence,'' he said, but he also sent letters to the victims' families expressing his condolences and stressing that his visit should not be viewed as excusing the murders.
        The shower of final tributes from religious and civic leaders began while Cardinal Bernardin was still on his deathbed. On Wednesday afternoon Pope John Paul called and ''gave the Cardinal his blessing and thanked him for all he had done,'' said Bob Quakenbush, a spokesman for the Chicago archdiocese.
        News of Cardinal Bernardin's death came when the nation's Catholic bishops were gathered in Washington for the closing day of the fall meeting of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, the organization he had done so much to shape. The bishops had followed reports of his failing condition closely, and they opened their final session with the prayer, ''Lord our God, you are the glory of believers and the life of the just. Open the arms of your mercy to your faithful servant, Joseph.''
        He is survived by his mother, Maria Bernardin, for many years a resident in a Chicago home for the aged run by the Little Sisters of the Poor, and by his sister, Elaine Addison of Columbia, S.C.
      