
        Michael Burnett, a career swindler whose work as a Government informer helped expose major municipal corruption in New York City and Chicago, died on Thursday at a Federal prison in Georgia, where he was serving a life sentence for masterminding a murder.
        Mr. Burnett, who was 67, was found dead in his cell at the United States Penitentiary in Atlanta, said Brian Hoyt, executive assistant in the southeast regional office of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He said  the cause had yet to be determined but there were no indications that Mr. Burnett, who suffered from heart disease and other ailments, took his own life or was the victim of foul play.
        Mr. Burnett's death brought an end to an extraordinary four-decade career in which he worked his wiles on both sides of the law: as a confidence man convicted of directing one murder and suspected by the authorities of involvement in a half-dozen more killings, and as an informer who gained lenient punishment for his own crimes by using his gifts for deception to help law-enforcement agencies uncover the crimes of others.
        It was during one of his stints as an informer -- in the mid-1980's, a decade before the 1994 killing for which he was convicted and sentenced to life in prison -- that Mr. Burnett emerged from the shadowy world of his chronic criminality into the spotlight of municipal scandals.
        To gain leniency in an attempted-robbery case in which he had been arrested in Nashville, Mr. Burnett, then known as Michael Raymond, posed as the corrupt representative of a businessman seeking municipal contracts to collect on overdue parking tickets.
        Wearing a hidden microphone for 18 months, he picked up the incriminating conversations of bribe-seeking public officials and bribe-paying contractors in New York and Chicago, sparking explosive investigations that, in New York, eventually led to two of the city's most powerful politicians, Donald R. Manes and Stanley M. Friedman, and brought them to ruin.
        Mr. Manes, the Queens Borough President, committed suicide in 1986 as evidence mounted that he had been heading lucrative bribery and kickback schemes at the city's Parking Violations Bureau, while Mr. Friedman, the Bronx Democratic leader, would serve four years in prison for his racketeering conviction stemming from the graft at the bureau.
        And the cases resulting from the scandals -- in which other public officials and businessmen were convicted in New York and Chicago -- helped propel to prominence and eventually to New York's City Hall a Federal prosecutor in Manhattan named Rudolph W. Giuliani.
        But whatever public service Mr. Burnett performed in helping to expose the corruption, it was only one side of a two-sided career whose criminal side would inevitably re-emerge after the 1980's scandals. Last March, Mr. Burnett was convicted in Federal District Court in Brooklyn of directing the 1994 murder of an accomplice in a counterfeit-check scheme he had carried out in the early 1990's at a Staten Island bank. Prosecutors said he arranged for a hit team to kill the woman when he learned that she had agreed to testify against him after his 1993 arrest for the check scheme.
        Margaret Giordano, an assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn who helped prosecute the case, said yesterday that Mr. Burnett had at least 16 previous convictions in Federal and state courts for crimes like securities fraud, grand larceny and armed robbery -- beginning with a larceny conviction 1958, when Mr. Burnett was in his late 20's.
        Ms. Giordano said Mr. Burnett had  been suspected of conspiring in six previous killings since the 1970's, including the murders of two women he was believed to have swindled of large amounts of money after becoming romantically involved with them.
        Mr. Burnett was born in Brooklyn and briefly attended the University of Illinois. While in his 20's, he began selling securities in New York.
        According to Julius M. Wasserstein, Mr. Burnett's lawyer in the recent murder case, Mr. Burnett was divorced and is survived by at least a daughter, a sister and a granddaughter, who could not be located yesterday.
      