
        John R. Border, a trauma specialist at the State University of New York at Buffalo whose groundbreaking work helped prevent fatal organ failure after surgery for severe injury, died on Monday at his home in suburban South Wales, N.Y.. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the university. At his death he was professor emeritus of surgery and orthopedics but continued his work and attended scientific meetings in Scotland just last month.
        Dr. Border served as director of the Trauma Research Program at  the university's School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences from 1968 until his formal retirement five years ago. Much of his research was underwritten by the National Institute of General Medical Science.
        He led a team of researchers in the early 1970's that developed methodology to prevent the stress of severe multiple trauma from setting off a chain of deadly biochemical events. To block such consequences, the Buffalo researchers treated the patient with a combination therapy of protein and glucose.
        Previously, victims of severe injuries often recovered after surgery and other treatment only to have their organs later shut down. Dr. Border found that fatal sequence, known as mutiple-system organ failure, had to be recognized and arrested immediately after the original trauma.
        Otherwise, he explained in a 1982 interview, the body drains the resources it stores in muscle tissue and other vital organs. It must be fed sufficient amounts of protein to meet the increased demand as it maintains normal functions and starts repairing damaged tissue, his research established.
        Dr. Border did his undergratuate work at the University of Indiana and Harvard College and graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1956. He joined the faculty of the Department of Surgery at SUNY Buffalo in 1965 and concurrently served as director of the trauma service at Erie County Medical Center.
        Dr. Border is survived by his wife, Donna Orvedahl Border; three sons, John, of Rochester, Peter, of Minneapolis, and Charles, of South Wales; two sisters, Mildred Border and Barbara Hale, and four grandchildren.
      