
        Bob John Magness, 72, a onetime cottonseed salesman who mortgaged a cattle ranch to start a business that grew into Tele-Communications Inc., one of the nation's biggest cable companies, died Friday in the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. He was the chairman of the corporation, which is based in Englewood, Colo.
        He had been undergoing chemotherapy treatment for lymphoma, a company spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Magness, who was born in Clinton, Okla., started his first cable business in Memphis, Tex., in 1956, climbing poles to string wires. His first wife, Betsy, ran the company from their kitchen when it had 700 customers. She died in 1985.
        They moved to Bozeman, Mont., in 1958 and joined a partnership that transmitted television broadcasts by microwave to Montana from Salt Lake City. They combined the Texas and Montana businesses in 1968 to form Tele-Communications, which currently has 14 million subscribers.
        For five years, from 1968 to 1973, Mr. Magness was chief executive of Tele-Communications, which first sold stock to the public in 1970. He ceded operating control in 1973 to John Malone, who is still president and chief executive. Mr. Magness and Mr. Malone kept control of 44 percent of both Tele-Communications and Liberty Media Corporation, which owns stakes in 91 cable programming companies, including Turner Broadcasting and the Home Shopping Network.
        Mr. Magness has been listed as one of the nation's wealthiest people since 1985; Forbes magazine recently said his assets were $960 million.
        One of his investments outside the cable business turned sour, as it became linked with one of the major financial scandals of the last decade. Mr. Magness resigned in 1988 from the board of Capcom Financial Services Ltd., a company that he had helped to establish, with Middle Eastern partners, in 1984.
        Capcom, based in London, handled trading in financial and commodities markets for the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. B.C.C.I. was eventually closed by regulators in the United States and Britain, among other countries, amid charges of money laundering, falsifying accounts and financing illegal arms and drug sales.
        Survivors include his wife, Sharon, his mother, Charlotte, two sons, Kim and Gary, both of Denver, and three grandchildren.
      