
        Abraham Samuel Blumberg, a prominent criminologist and sociologist whose provocative opinions of law enforcement and the legal establishment drew the wrath of J. Edgar Hoover, died on Nov. 11 at the Pacific Regent Health Center in San Diego. A resident of San Diego for the last 10 years, he was 75.
        He suffered a series of strokes, his family said.
        Dr. Blumberg was a former professor and dean of social sciences at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in Manhattan. Most recently he had taught at the University of California at San Diego and at San Diego State University until illness forced him to retire three years ago.
        Outspoken and highly articulate, he lectured worldwide and wrote  ''Criminal Justice'' (Quadrangle, 1967), a study of due process in American courts.
        It approached the subject from the sociologist's vantage point and established Dr. Blumberg as an unorthodox voice on the subject. A later article, ''The Practice of Law as a Confidence Game: Co-opting of a Profession,'' was reprinted worldwide in more than 50 anthologies.
        That essay made Dr. Blumberg a leading critic of what he considered ''checkbook justice.'' He contended that there were two systems of justice, said Thomas Gitchoff, professor of criminal justice at San Diego State: ''One for the elite and powerful and the other for the rest.''
        While Dr. Blumberg was at John Jay, a part of the City University of New York, his bluntness upset the top echelon of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A confrontation was prompted by one classroom session in the summer of 1970 in which he and his students discussed Mr. Hoover's long service as the bureau's Director, the aura of adulation surrounding him, and the bureau's perceived reluctance to move on civil rights matters.
        On behalf of Mr. Hoover, the F.B.I. ordered its agents in the student body to quit John Jay and to shun the college as long as Dr. Blumberg remained on the faculty. Donald H. Riddle, the college president at the time, took a firm stand.
        ''They said they were not trying to force me to fire the professor,'' Dr. Riddle said, ''but they just wanted me to know Mr. Hoover's feeling. I told them the professor was staying.''
        Abraham Blumberg was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College. He earned a law degree at Columbia Law School and a doctorate in sociology from the New School of Social Research. Besides John Jay College, he taught at Brooklyn College, Queens College, the State University of New York at Stony Brook, and the Police College at Bramshill, England. Before going to San Diego, he served as chairman of criminal justice at the University of Missouri at Kansas City for 10 years.
        Dr. Blumberg is survived by his wife of 54 years, Mildred Labiner Blumberg; a son, Dr. Niel, of Rochester; a daughter, Dr. Karen Blumberg of St. Paul; a sister, Rebecca Carter of Soquel, Calif.; a brother, Michael, of Cleveland, and four grandsons.
      