
        Cordell Hull Reagon, whose powerful tenor voice spread the message of the civil rights movement throughout the United States and Canada in the 1960's as a member of the Freedom Singers of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, was found dead on Nov. 12 in his apartment in Berkeley, Calif. He was 53.
        The Berkeley police said Mr. Reagon was a homicide victim.
        Mr. Reagon was 16 in 1959 when he emerged as a leader of the civil rights movement in Albany, Ga. James Forman, who became the executive secretary of S.N.C.C., called him ''the baby of the movement.''
        Mr. Reagon, who was arrested more than 30 times in the South for his anti-segregation activities, conducted nonviolent training workshops for hundreds of volunteers who journeyed to the South to work on voter registration campaigns and other civil rights projects.
        In 1962 he became a founder of the Freedom Singers, usually a quartet of two men and two women who sang gospel-style freedom songs to rouse support for the civil rights movement. The quartet included his first wife, Bernice Johnson.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, Mr. Reagon became active in the movements against the Vietnam War, nuclear weapons and environmental destruction. For a time he lived in New York City and worked as an organizer for the Social Service Employees Union, a youth worker for Mobilization for Youth and a career and vocational counselor. In 1988 he moved to Berkeley, where he founded the environmental group Urban Habitat and Urban Justice Organization.
        Mr. Reagon, who was born in Nashville in 1943, was named for Cordell Hull, the Secretary of State under President Franklin D. Roosevelt from 1933 to 1944.
        Mr. Reagon's two marriages -- to Dr. Johnson of Albany, a co-founder of the Freedom Singers, and to Merble Harrington of Suffield, Conn., ended in divorce. Besides his mother, Viola Reagon of Nashville, he is survived by his children, Toshi of Brooklyn, Kwan of Oakland, Calif., Mariama of Manhattan and DaLisa Love of Las Vegas, Nev. Mr. Reagon, who was the youngest of 14 children, is also survived by a brother and several sisters.
      