
        Benjamin Arthur Quarles, a scholar who wrote about the role of African-Americans in the founding of the United States and in its early history, died on Saturday at Prince George's Hospital in Cheverly, Md.
        He was 92 and lived at the Collington Episcopal Life Care Community in Mitchellville, Md.
        Dr. Quarles spent most of his career writing, researching and teaching at predominantly black colleges. He retired in 1974 as a professor emeritus of history from Morgan State University in Baltimore and continued to research and publish well into his 80's.
        He was the author of three books about Frederick Douglass as well as several on black soldiers, abolitionists and spies during the Civil War.
        While accepting an honorary doctorate at Rutgers University in 1976, Dr. Quarles discussed the ambiguities of a Constitution that speaks of men created equal and endowed with inalienable rights that were not applied to blacks, but, he added, such oratory was natural for a revolution.
        Nevertheless, blacks, many of whom fought in the Revolution, had reason to remember the role they played, he said. Not to do so, he said, would be giving up on the ''promissory note'' issued by the Founding Fathers.
        His first book, in 1948, was ''Frederick Douglass,'' and he gained a national reputation and readership with ''The Negro in the Civil War'' (Little, Brown, 1953). It told the story not only of the 180,000 blacks who wore the blue on the battlefield, but also of the scouts, spies and propagandists, the abolitionist crusaders and workers in the underground railroad.
        Among his other books were ''The Negro in the American Revolution'' (University of North Carolina, 1961), ''Lincoln and the Negro'' (Oxford, 1962), ''The Negro in the Making of America'' (Collier, 1964), ''Black Abolitionists'' (Oxford, 1969) and ''Allies for Freedom: Blacks and John Brown'' (Oxford, 1974).
        Several, including ''The Negro in the American Revolution,'' went through updated editions and reprints as late as this year.
        Born in Boston, he graduated from Shaw University in Raleigh, N.C., in 1931, and earned an master's degree in 1933 at the University of Wisconsin, where he also received a doctorate in history seven years later. He taught at Shaw and later at Dillard University in New Orleans. In 1953 he moved to Morgan State.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Ruth Brett Quarles; their daughter, Pamela Quarles of Falls Church, Va.; a daughter by a previous marriage, Roberta Knowles of St. Croix, V.I.; two brothers, Henry and Lorenzo, both of Boston; a sister, Ann Silvera of East Elmhurst, Queens, and three grandsons. His first wife, Vera Bullock Quarles, died in 1951.
      