
        Bill Doggett, a pianist and organist who was best known for his 1956 blues hit ''Honky Tonk,'' died on Nov. 13 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Mr. Doggett, like many jazz musicians from the 1930's and 40's, was reborn as a rhythm-and-blues musician in the 1950's. Though he was a successful big-band pianist and arranger, his greatest impact on American music came from 1952 through 1960, when he led a small band that recorded for King Records. The group specialized in good-time Saturday-night music. And as an organist with a raucous, swinging style rife with the blues, Mr. Doggett helped popularize the instrument.
        Early in Mr. Doggett's career, he worked with the Lucky Millinder band, the Ink Spots, Helen Humes, Illinois Jacquet, Jimmy Rushing and Lucky Thompson. He arranged Thelonious Monk's ''Round Midnight'' for Cootie Williams. In 1949 he joined Louis Jordan's rhythm-and-blues group, a jump band that in many ways revolutionized American popular music. Mr. Doggett took over the piano spot from Wild Bill Davis, who left to lead an organ group.
        Mr. Doggett took notice of Mr. Davis's move, and in 1952, as an organist, he recorded his first session for King Records, including a tune called ''Big Dog,'' with the guitarist Mickey Baker. It was a new kind of amplified dance music,  cheaper and louder than the music of the big bands, and full of postwar optimism. On some of his recordings from that period Mr. Doggett is joined by the best swing-style saxophonists, including Percy France, Clifford Scott and Earl Bostic.
        In 1956 Mr. Doggett recorded ''Honky Tonk,'' a 12-bar blues that by 1979 had sold three million copies. He kept on going, recording classic rhythm-and-blues miniatures that were completely fused to the blues culture of the time, jukebox favorites that had a driving blues core. In addition to his work for King Records, he recorded for Warner Brothers Records, Columbia and ABC Paramount. Mr. Doggett went on to lead his own groups, and he toured Europe regularly.
        He is survived by by his wife, Angela, of Islip, L.I., and a brother, John, of St. Louis.
      