
        George C. Ginsberg, a retired commercial photographer often called ''the penny philanthropist''for his modest but loyal contributions to scores of charities, died on Monday at his home in Springfield, N.J. He was 97.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said his daughter Annette Lawrence.
        As a young businessman, Mr. Ginsberg supported an array of causes. But it was only after having sold his photography shop to a partner in 1966 that he became a full-time, if small-time, philanthropist, a regular contributor to more than 100 charities.
        A typical donation was $1 or $2, rarely more than $10, and Mr. Ginsberg doled out his money carefully, choosing benefactors as though he were a Rockefeller. In fact, Mr. Ginsberg often said he had taken a cue from John D. Rockefeller's custom of passing out dimes to street children.
        Mr. Ginsberg was a deliberate donor, keeping files on the groups and individuals who solicited donations and spending a fair share of his day opening the avalanche of requests that arrived at his home.
        He sometimes gave without being asked. If he read about a natural disaster or saw television coverage of a medical emergency, the victims might soon be opening envelopes containing $5 or $10, usually urging them to ''save your postage'' by not sending a letter of thanks.
        Motivated by a desire no more complicated than wanting a perfect world, Mr. Ginsberg parceled out several hundred dollars annually, much of it to his favorite groups, including Jewish organizations, children's charities and the Salvation Army.
        Despite the modesty of his contributions, he was hardly shy. His gifts were almost always accompanied by a note on the status of what he called his kitty, which he stashed ina plain white envelope marked with ''the penny philanthropy money,'' and a request to publish a plea asking others to do their part, as well.
        He was known to friends for his ability to enroll strangers in almost any cause. Once when he attended a sparse meeting of a lodge of B'nai B'rith in Newark in 1956, he asked where the other members were. On learning that everyone was present, he vowed to sponsor a drive for new members. Over several months, Mr. Ginsberg sent postcards to every Jewish resident in the area telling them why they should join. The membership ballooned so dramatically that the lodge in neighboring Springfield asked him to do the same on its behalf.
        A native of Nikolayev, Russia, who was orphaned by the time he was 5, Mr. Ginsberg was sent at age 10 to the United States to apprentice with an uncle who owned a photography store in Bay Shore, L.I. He later opened his own shop in Philadelphia and eventually moved to Newark to take over his uncle's business. Over the years, Mr. Ginsberg patented several photographic inventions, including a gadget known as a ring pod, which steadies a hand-held camera without the use of a tripod.
        In 1921, he was introduced to Fannie New, who was in Bay Shore visiting her sister for Thanksgiving. Before her vacation was over, Mr. Ginsberg had raised the possibility of marriage.  ''If you think you'd like me, I think I'd like you,'' he said to her. ''Think it over.''
        She did, and when a diamond ring arrived in the mail the next March, she accepted it and him for a marriage that lasted until her death in 1983.
        Also surviving are another daughter, Beatrice Slater of Springfield; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      