
        Raymond Skinner Clark, a lawyer and business executive in New York and Baltimore, died on Friday at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Baltimore.
        The cause was cancer, said Mr. Clark's brother-in-law, William P. Carey.
        Mr. Clark, who had been captain of the Harvard crew and went on to earn a law degree at Yale in 1939, practiced law in Baltimore and New York before joining corporate management at the Canton Company of Baltimore, which for decades operated a marine terminal and small railroad at the port of Baltimore.
        While serving as president of the Canton Company, Mr. Clark in 1973 helped to found W. P. Carey & Company, a New York investment bank specializing in real estate leasing. He remained as chairman of W. P. Carey until his death.
        Mr. Clark ran unsuccessfully for State's Attorney of Baltimore County in 1950, but later served as treasurer of the Republican Party in Maryland and was appointed chairman of the Maryland Industrial Development Financing Authority.
        Mr. Clark stood more than 6 feet tall and weighed about 240 pounds when he joined Canton as a vice president in 1960 after serving as general counsel for the chemical division of W. R.Grace & Company in New York. Family members said he felt that his new employers were reluctant to promote him to president, partly because of his weight. But a shooting at the Baltimore company changed his image.
        When an angry employee fired at a supervisor, Mr. Clark and a sales manager grappled with the gunman. Mr. Clark was hit in the chest and the other man suffered a wound on a thumb. Another employee shot the disgruntled employee in the abdomen. He recovered, sued the company and was awarded several thousand dollars in damages.
        Mr. Clark emerged as something of a local hero and at the next board meeting, was elected president.
        During World War II, Mr. Clark served with the Navy in the Pacific and rose to Lieutenant Commander. Shortly after he returned home, Mr. Clark's first marriage, to Louise Morgan, ended in divorce and he married Marjorie Pendleton Gorman.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Clark is survived by two sons, Jonathan Edwards, of Baltimore and Dr. Junius Morgan, of North East, Md.; a daughter, Gwendolen Nash Gorman Bond of Owings Mills, Md., and five grandchildren.
      