
        Mark Lenard, an actor who played leading roles in plays by Chekhov, Ibsen and Shakespeare but was best known as Sarek of Vulcan, the father of Mr. Spock, in the television and film series ''Star Trek,'' died on Friday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, his family said.
        Mr. Lenard certified his ''Star Trek'' celebrity with an appearance as the father of Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) on the original television series in the late 1960's, then parlayed it into a recurring role in subsequent feature films (''Star Trek III'' and three more sequels). He was also in an animated ''Star Trek'' show, ''Yesteryear.'' The cast changed in the various versions of this science-fiction classic, but Mr. Lenard appeared in almost all of them.
        His character was married to a human (Jane Wyatt), which accounted for Mr. Spock's being half-Vulcan, half-human. For that reason, fans of the series considered Sarek to be the original Vulcan. Mr. Lenard said that he was proud to be part of the ''Star Trek'' mythology. About Sarek, he said, ''He taught Spock, but he doesn't have any of the human frailties that make Spock so endearing.''  Along with Mr. Nimoy and others, Mr. Lenard was a favorite at ''Star Trek'' conventions.
        Because he also played the Klingon captain in ''Star Trek: The Motion Picture'' and the Romulan commander in the ''Balance of Terror'' television episode, Mr. Lenard was known as the only actor to play members of three alien races in the series.
        Mr. Lenard was born in Chicago. In the mid 1950's, he appeared Off Broadway in productions of John Patrick's ''Hasty Heart'' and James Joyce's ''Exiles,'' in which he played the character based on the author. In 1957 he made his Broadway debut in Carson McCullers's ''Square Root of Wonderful'' and then was in ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' with John Gielgud, and in Paddy Chayefsky's ''Gideon.'' He acted in ''Measure for Measure'' for the New York Shakespeare Festival, had pivotal roles in productions of Ibsen's ''Little Eyolf'' and ''Rosmersholm'' and Chekhov's ''Country Scandal.''
        His films include ''The Greatest Story Ever Told,'' ''Hang 'Em High'' and ''Annie Hall.'' On television he was in ''The Power and the Glory'' with Laurence Olivier and also appeared in series like ''Mission Impossible'' and ''Gunsmoke.''
        He is survived by his wife, Ann,  and two daughters, Roberta, of Boston, and Catherine, of Oklahoma City.
      