
        Elrey B. Jeppesen, an aviation pioneer, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 89.
        When he was a boy growing up in Hood River, Ore., before the first World War, he used to climb a tree and cling to a branch for hours watching eagles soaring in the sky, a sight he found so compelling that flying became his boyhood obsession and eventually his life.
        He made his first solo flight in 1923 at the age of 16, borrowed $500 from customers on his paper route to buy his first biplane, a wartime Jenny, and dropped out of high school to go barnstorming with a flying circus, walking on wings and performing other stunts before taking the gawking rustics up for their own spins in an actual flying machine at $10 to $20 a head.
        When the Government finally got around to registering pilots in 1928, it was Orville Wright who signed Mr. Jeppesen's first license, and when he began flying the mail for double pay on the dangerous night runs in the 1930's the skies were so empty, he later recalled, the only other plane he saw was the mail plane going in the opposite direction.
        Navigation was so problematic in those days that he bought a 10-cent, palm-sized loose-leaf notebook to keep detailed records of the locations of water towers, smokestacks and other landmarks and for sketches showing the approaches to the airports he visited and the location of pastures that could be used for emergency landings.
        Aviation has changed considerably in the last two-thirds of a century, of course, and modern pilots with their banks of dials, gauges and switches are far removed from those barnstorming days. But at his death Mr.  Jeppesen was not quite forgotten.
        After all, a 16-foot bronze statue showing him in his leather pilot's helmet, goggles and jodhpurs stands at the Denver International Airport, the airport's main terminal is named for him, and for all that has changed in aviation, every commercial pilot in the country and 90 percent of those around the world never make a flight without their Jeppesen Airway Manuals, the direct descendants of Mr. Jeppesen's original 10-cent notebook that became the foundation document of a multimillion-dollar business that bears his name.
        The son of Danish immigrants, Mr. Jeppesen, whose father was a cabinetmaker, was a native of Lake Charles, La., who was taken to Oregon as an infant and who lived at times in Cheyenne, Wyo., Salt Lake City and Denver during his years as a pilot for United Airlines. But no matter where he made his bed, the sky was always his home and the remembered wind was forever in his face.
        ''It was magical for me,'' he recalled in a 1990 interview. ''Those old, open airplanes -- you felt like a bird, part of the airplane. It was so damn much fun.''
        What made Mr. Jeppesen a part of aviation history and a member of the International Aerospace Hall of Fame in San Diego was not the thrill he derived from flying, but the ingenious care he took in making sure he arrived safely and at the right place.
        When he began flying the mail, he once recalled, the only navigation aids were highways and railroad tracks, and even they were not enough to tell a pilot just where he was along his route.
        Even before he began keeping his notebook, Mr. Jeppesen had become a master at seat-of-the-pants navigation, making it a point, for example, to learn that a sure way to determine direction in the event his compass failed was to know that outhouses always faced south.
        Only the 27th licensed pilot in Oregon, Mr. Jeppesen had gotten an idea of the value of visual flying aids in 1929 when he served as a pilot for an aerial photographer making the first survey of Mexico.
        The next year he began flying mail, first for Varney Airlines in Portland and then for Boeing Air Transport, both precursors of United Airlines, which employed Mr. Jeppesen as a pilot until 1954.
        Mr. Jeppesen, who verified and extended the information in his notebook by driving his routes by car, sometimes even climbing water towers with an altimeter to determine their exact heights, was soon so famous among his fellow pilots that they started asking him for tips on flying one route or another.
        Seeing a business opportunity, Mr. Jeppesen began selling copies of his notebook for $10 and had so many takers that by 1933 he had a thriving sideline. By the time he sold his business to the Times Mirror Company in 1961 it was grossing $5 million a year and had 550 employees. The business is now known as Jeppesen Sanderson, and provides constant updates to the 28 three-inch-thick manuals that cover the world.
        Although he appreciated all the modern electronic developments that make flying safer and surer, Mr. Jeppesen nevertheless missed the old days.
        ''You could feel the wind on your face,'' he said, ''the wind on the stick and the rudder. You were a part of it. Today, you just might as well get on a train.''
        Mr. Jeppesen, whose wife, Nadine, died in June, is survived by two sons, Jim, of Littleton, Colo. and Dick, of Longwood, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      