
        Henry H. Henley Jr., who as chairman and chief executive of the company that made the coveted Arrow shirt successfully steered it through the mergers and upheavals in the apparel industry in the 1980's, died yesterday at his home in Hobe Sound,  Fla., near West Palm Beach. He was 75.
        The cause of death was a stroke, members of his family said.
        Mr. Henley's company, Cluett, Peabody & Company, with headquarters on Fifth Avenue in New York, made what for generations was by far the nation's best-selling brand of men's shirts.
        The company gained dominance in the 19th century with what was regarded as the ultimate in male sex appeal: the detachable Arrow collar.  And it stayed on top after World War I by attaching collar to shirt, recognizing the demand of returning servicemen who had liked wearing uniform shirts with the collars already in place.
        But the apparel industry, and the male shirt market in particular, underwent great changes in the decades after World War II, and Mr. Henley joined the company as president in 1967 as it approached the resulting crisis. Many different companies, kinds of shirts and methods of selling had by then entered the competition to challenge Arrow's leadership. Designer shirts, discount centers and store brand names all played a role in altering what were called main-floor sales in the nation's stores.
        First as president and then as chairman and chief executive, Mr. Henley met the competitive threat by diversifying, adding many other lines. Over a 20-year period he built up Cluett, Peabody so that it had 30 subsidiary companies producing a wide variety of articles that appeared in virtually every major store in the country. Among the lines that kept the company prosperous were Schoeneman suits, Gold Toe socks and Colours by Alexander Julian shirts. Revenue rose to nearly $1 billion, from less than $500 million.
        Arrow shirts continued to be the top-selling men's shirts, holding on to about 20 percent of the total market. But with so many new competitors, they no longer enjoyed the kind of dominance they had once had.
        With the company flirting with billion-dollar sales in the mid-80's, it became an object of hostile takeover bids. Before his retirement in 1986, Mr. Henley warded them off and managed a friendly merger with WestPoint Pepperill that was ultimately beneficial to Cluett, Peabody stockholders. (As a result of mergers after Mr. Henley left the company,  Cluett, Peabody is now owned by Bidermann International, a French apparel manufacturer.)
        Henry Howard Henley Jr., was born in Helena, Ark., and graduated from Hendrix College in Conway, Ark. Before his tenure at Cluett, Peabody, he had a dramatic corporate rise to become president, at the age of 39, of McKesson & Robbins, a major pharmaceutical maker based in San Francisco.
        He had begun working at that company at the age of 10, cleaning shelves at a warehouse in Memphis on the private payroll of his father, who was a McKesson & Robbins salesman. After service as an officer in the Navy from 1943 to 1946, he went back to what he called ''a real job,'' becoming a salesman for the company himself. He later became a buyer in San Antonio and then a regional manager in Dallas, and was made vice president of the drug division in 1956.
        Mr. Henley served as a director on several corporate boards, including those of the General Electric Company, the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, the Olin Corporation, Home Life Insurance and American Express.
        A trustee of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York and of Hendrix College, he was active as well with the Business Council, a business trade group, and was a member of the Young Presidents' Club, an organization of young business executives, when he was president of McKesson & Robbins.
        He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Dorothy Ray Hutcheson Henley of Hobe Sound and Roaring Gap, N.C.; three sons, Charles Ray of Columbia, S.C., Philip Howard of Bronxville, N.Y., and Henry H. 3d, of Cincinnati; a brother, Gibbs, of Charlotte, N.C., and five grandchildren.
      