
        Amata Kabua, who led the Marshall Islands on its road to nationhood and served as the republic's first and only President since 1979, died last Thursday in Honolulu, where he had undergone medical treatment for a month. He was 68.
        President Kabua, who was re-elected to a fifth term last year, had reportedly complained of chest pains and nausea. A Marshallese consular official in Hawaii said he died early Thursday morning at the Queen's Medical Center.
        Lying in the region of the South Pacific known as Micronesia, the Marshalls are made up of 31 coral atolls in the Ratak and Ralik island chains. They are home to some 50,000 people scattered over 180 square miles of terra firma strung out southwest of Hawaii in the two chains.
        President Kabua was born on Jabor Island of Jaluit Atoll on Nov. 17, 1928. He graduated from Mauna Olu College in Hawaii, taught secondary school and served as school superintendent in the Marshall Islands before embarking on a political career.
        He became chief clerk of the Marshalls' Council of Paramount Chiefs in the 1950's and in 1958 was elected to the First Marshall Islands Congress. From 1963 until 1978 he was Senator from the Marshall Islands in the territory-wide Congress of Micronesia and also served for a term as Senate President of the Marshalls.
        Part of a former German protectorate, the islands were occupied by Japan in World War I and were captured by United States forces in World War II. Washington came to administer the region after the United Nations in 1947 established the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, also comprising the Caroline Islands and the Northern Marianas.
        President Kabua became the founder and leader of the Political Movement for the Marshall Islands Separation from Micronesia in 1972. Its aim was to break the Marshalls out of the U.S. Trust Territory, which Washington under President Carter had agreed to do.
        The Marshallese voted for independence in 1978 and President Kabua began his first term as President of the Republic the following year. The United Nations formally ratified the end of the trusteeship in 1990, enabling the Marshalls to claim a General Assembly seat in 1991.
        In the capital on Majuro Atoll, the Government named Kunio Lemari, Minister of Transport and Communications, as Acting President. According to The Associated Press, Mr. Lemari said President Kabua had died while in intensive care and under dialysis treatment.
      