
        Leonard Kimball Firestone, a former United States Ambassador to Belgium, board member of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company and longtime friend of former Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, died on Tuesday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Firestone was the last of six children of Harvey S. Firestone, who founded the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in 1900. Leonard Firestone joined the company after graduating from Princeton University in 1931 and worked there for 39 years until he retired, in 1970, as president of the California division.
        He served on the board from 1939 through 1974, relinquished his seat during his ambassadorship and returned for three years beginning in 1980. His brother Raymond was chairman of the corporation until 1976. The company was acquired by the Bridgestone Corporation in 1988.
        Leonard Firestone had a long association with many Presidents, from golfing with President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1954 to lending a condominium to President Clinton in 1993 for a family vacation. Mr. Nixon appointed him Ambassador to Belgium in 1974, a post he held until 1976. Mr. Firestone was one of several Nixon friends who worked to establish the Richard M. Nixon Library in Yorba Linda, Calif.
        Mr. Ford was also a friend and golfing partner of Mr. Firestone. The Fords built a home next to the Firestone home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. The former President also invested with Mr. Firestone in two Colorado radio stations.
        Mr. Firestone was a longtime supporter of several Republican candidates, including Ronald Reagan when he was Governor of California, and donated more than $100,000 to the Republican National Committee in 1988.
        Mr. Firestone, who was born in Akron, Ohio, became president of the Firestone Aviation Products Company in 1941. In World War II he headed the California division, which was producing tires and other rubber goods for the war effort.
        After he retired as president of the division, he became involved in other business interests, including real estate, the Firestone Winery in Los Olivos, Calif., and the communications industry.
        He is survived by his third wife, Caroline Hudson Firestone, and a daughter and two sons by his first wife, Polly Curtis Firestone, who died in 1965. His second wife, Barbara K. Heatley, died in 1985. His daughter is Lendy Brown of Paris, Ky., and his sons are Kimball C.  Firestone of Middletown, Md., and A. Brooks Firestone of Los Olivos, Calif. He is also survived by 10 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      