
        Dr. William B. Walsh, who founded and led Project HOPE, a nonprofit program that provides medical training, health education and humanitarian assistance around the world, died yesterday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 76 and also lived in Tucson, Ariz.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said Laura Petrosian, a spokeswoman for the organization.
        Since it was founded in 1958, Project HOPE (Health Opportunities for People Everywhere) has worked in more than 70 countries on five continents, including North America. More than 5,000 health professionals have donated their services to the project, and it has trained more than 1.3 million health workers and provided aid to millions of people, project officials said.
        Dr. Walsh said he saw the need for the program while serving as a Navy medical officer aboard a destroyer in the South Pacific in World War II. He was particularly affected by the illnesses and deaths of children who could have benefited from simple medical care, he said.
        Speaking of the people of the South Pacific, he told an interviewer in 1994: ''Some of them had never had any real medical care in their life. I promised myself that if I ever got the chance, I wanted to do something about that sort of thing.''
        The chance came in 1958 when, as a young cardiologist, he was called in as a consultant after President Dwight D. Eisenhower suffered a heart attack. Eisenhower took a liking to Dr. Walsh and asked him to become co-chairman of the Committee on Medicine and the Health Professions of his People-to-People program, intended to assist developing nations.
        Soon Dr. Walsh proposed what became the first peacetime hospital ship, the Hope. He led a successful effort to raise $750,000 to refit a gray, mothballed, 15,000-ton hospital ship loaned to the project by the Navy. In two years, it was turned into a fully equipped white ship with ''HOPE'' in 15-foot-high block letters on its sides.
        On Sept. 22, 1960, the ship left San Francisco on its first voyage, to Indonesia. One of its first stops was the island of Sumbawa, where only two doctors were available to treat 250,000 people. Men, women and children had gathered for days or weeks to get medical care from the staff of the hospital ship.
        Among the patients was a farmer who suffered from chronic chest pain, Dr. Walsh wrote later in a book, ''A Ship Called Hope'' (E. P. Dutton & Company, 1964). Surgeons removed a chest tumor, and the man quickly recovered. Through an interpreter, he said: ''This is the first time in my memory, or the memory of the oldest man in my village, that foreigners have come and not taken rice from us. You are here to help us. We will not forget.''
        From that year until 1974, the hospital ship carried doctors and nurses to South Vietnam, Ecuador, Guinea, Tunisia, Brazil and other nations, becoming a symbol of American good will. Dr. Walsh spent time on the ship but also publicized its efforts and raised money. He was chief executive officer and medical director of Project HOPE's parent organization, the People-to-People Health Foundation, from 1958 to 1992 and president from 1958 to 1991. He was subsequently vice chairman.
        The organization's goal has been to help others help themselves by enhancing the skills of health workers, who can pass their knowledge on to colleagues as well as treat the local population. The ship visited only places to which it had been invited, and project officials said they tried to avoid politics.
        In 1974, after traveling more than 250,000 miles, the ship was retired because of its age, rising fuel costs and increased requests for help from landlocked countries. The move allowed the project to grow from a single site to a global organization that operates in dozens of nations.
        The organization now spends more than $110 million a year, most of which is donated by corporations and individuals. Its programs have included delivering medical supplies to Kazakhstan and other former Soviet republics and training nurses to care for orphans in Romania. Currently its largest single project, being carried out with the Chinese Government, is the construction of a national children's medical center in Shanghai. The center, scheduled to open late next year, will treat more than 250,000 children a year.
        The foundation also operates a research unit, the Center for Health Affairs, established by Dr. Walsh, and publishes the quarterly journal Health Affairs.
        William Bertalan Walsh was born on April 26, 1920, in Brooklyn and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University in Queens. He graduated from medical school at Georgetown University in 1943. For many years he was a clinical professor of internal medicine at Georgetown.
        In addition to ''A Ship Called Hope,'' he wrote two other books about the project, ''Yanqui, Come Back!'' (1966) and ''HOPE in the East: The Mission to Ceylon'' (1970), both published by Dutton.
        He served on Government advisory groups, including the Presidential Commission on AIDS. President Ronald Reagan named him chairman of his Health Advisory Committee, and President Lyndon B. Johnson named him chairman of Project Vietnam, which sent American doctors to South Vietnam to treat civilians.
        Dr. Walsh received dozens of awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Americas Award, the Theodore Roosevelt Distinguished Service Medal and the National Order of Merit from France.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen, of Bethesda and Tucson; three sons, William Jr., of Rockville, Md., and John and Thomas, both of Bethesda; a brother, John, of Bethany Beach, Del.; a sister, Gladys, of Arlington, Va., and six grandchildren.
      