
        Peter F. Bronfman, who with his brother, Edward, created one of the most powerful and secretive corporate empires in North America, died on Sunday at his home in Toronto. He was 67.
        Peter Bronfman died of cancer, said Robert Harding, president of the Edper Group Ltd., the company of which Mr. Bronfman was senior chairman and founder.
        One of the richest men in North America, Mr. Bronfman kept a modest profile, shunning personal recognition and many of the trappings of his great wealth. A slight man with a disarming sense of humor, he once described himself as ''a kind of nice, humble, easygoing person.''
        He was known to appear at formal functions in a cardigan sweater, and for a time he kept a large plastic Mickey Mouse doll in his high-rise Toronto office.
        In the late 1980's, the corporate empire controlled by Mr. Bronfman and his older brother, Edward, was the largest in Canada, though the complex and often obscure holding companies used by the Bronfmans generally allowed them to operate out of the public eye.
        In 1990, Statistics Canada, the Government's information-gathering agency, found that the 360 companies under control of the two Bronfmans represented more than twice the number of companies owned by the Government of Canada itself.
        But it was always the other branch of the Bronfman family, which controls the Seagram Company, that received all the attention.
        Peter Bronfman did not mind. Whether it was the Trizec Corporation, a major real estate development company that was part of the Edper empire for a time, or the Montreal Canadiens hockey team, for which he developed a true and lasting passion, Mr. Bronfman did not try to run things directly himself, preferring to hire competent managers and then give them a free hand.
        When the complex chain of companies he had amassed ran into financial difficulties in 1993 and had to be sold off piece by piece, Mr. Bronfman tried to give the impression that he was not concerned about losing control. ''Control by itself is not an important issue,'' he told Maclean's magazine in 1993. But it obviously was a far more difficult loss than he was at first willing to let on. ''Very often in life, you are torn between your heart and your intellect,'' he said in the same interview.
        Peter Frederick Bronfman was born in Montreal in 1929, a son of Allan Bronfman and nephew of Samuel Bronfman, the founder of the Seagram Company. He attended the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., and received a bachelor's degree from Yale University in 1952.
        In 1959 Mr. Bronfman and his older brother, Edward -- who are sometimes referred to as the Toronto Bronfmans or ''the poor cousins'' -- were shut out of the Seagram Company when their cousins in Montreal forced them to sell about half of their shares in the distillery.
        The two brothers took the proceeds, some $15 million (United States), and established Edper Investments Ltd. The company name, taken from a trust set up for them by their father, is composed of letters from the names Edward and Peter.
        That original capital grew over the next 30 years until at one point the total valuation of all the companies controlled by Edper was thought to have exceeded $83 billion (United States).
        The influence of the Bronfmans on Canada's economy was substantial, and by 1992 the 40 publicly traded companies in their holdings accounted for more than 10 percent of the Toronto Stock Exchange's value.
        One of Mr. Bronfman's great loves was hockey. He and his brother owned the Montreal Canadiens from 1971 to 1978, years in which the team won the Stanley Cup four times. He often visited players after games but never interfered in the running of the team.
        Years of recession in Canada and the complexities of keeping the tangle of overlapping controls in line brought Mr. Bronfman's empire close to collapse. By 1993, many of the companies had to be sold off.
        Through it all, Peter Bronfman became even more of a figure of media speculation, although he rarely ventured into the public eye.
        In a book about the Bronfmans published in 1978, ''Bronfman Dynasty,'' Peter C. Newman, former editor of Maclean's, portrayed Peter Bronfman as a loner whose greatest joy was ''walking by himself through the fluorescent desolation of city streets in late-night rain, investigating the radiant miscellanies along the way.''
        In recent years Mr. Bronfman withdrew even more from the management of Edper, focusing instead on community service. He served as president of Montreal's Jewish General Hospital and was active in many other hopitals and organizations, including Jessie's Center for Teen-agers in Toronto, a home for young unwed mothers.
        Mr. Bronfman was recently awarded the Order of Canada in recognition of his service. The Governor General of Canada, the Queen's representative, had been scheduled to present the award formally to Mr. Bronfman at his home today.
        In addition to his brother, Edward, 69, Mr. Bronfman is survived by his third wife, Lynda Hamilton Bronfman, two daughters, Linda and Brenda, a son, Bruce, who has been involved in running some of the Edper companies, and six grandchildren.
      