
        Lyle C. Fitch, an authority on urban problems who served as City Administrator under Mayor Robert F. Wagner and later as president of the Institute of Public Administration, died on Saturday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. He was 83.
        The cause was believed to be lung cancer, according to his wife, Violet.
        A prescient analyst of the fiscal and administrative problems of cities and governments, Mr. Fitch addressed such matters as transportation, construction, hospitals and nursing homes in New York, first as deputy City Administrator, from 1957 to 1960, and then as City Administrator.
        The city administrator's office recommended management practices and procedures for the city and its agencies, coordinated management policies and made management studies under the direction of the mayor.
        When Mr. Fitch left city government in 1961 to become the president of the Institute of Public Administration, a private, nonprofit education, research and consulting center, he observed in a 1,100-word letter to Mayor Wagner, ''Management improvement in New York is like going with Alice through the looking glass: so much of our effort is spent in running hard just to keep even.''
        In the letter, he told the Mayor of three management problems of ''transcendent importance'' that he said the city must solve. These were development of long-range fiscal planning to eliminate budgetary gimmickry, a technique for bringing top-flight employees into city government and the concentration of responsibility for planning and administering city transportation services, which were then spread among 11 authorities and public departments operating under different rules and controls.
        Still, he said: ''I have looked at the governments of many large cities both here and abroad. I know of none where the overall level of governmental performance excels that of New York in moving to meet problems, in the level and quality of governmental services and in the integrity of its officials and employees.''
        After Abraham D. Beame became Mayor in 1974, the functions of the city administrator were moved into the Budget Bureau.
        At the Institute of Public Administration, Mr. Fitch addressed national and international management and policy issues for agencies including  the Departments of Energy and Commerce, and for countries including Venezuela, Indonesia and Bangladesh.
        He was named president emeritus when he retired from the institute in 1982. Afterward he was a Regents professor and visiting scholar at the University of California at Berkeley and at Los Angeles.
        Mr. Fitch was a prolific writer of articles and reviews, and the author, co-author or editor of a number of books. His most recent, published this year by the Institute of Governmental Studies Press at Berkeley, was ''Making Democracy Work: The Life and Letters of Luther Gulick.''  Mr. Gulick, the first City Administrator, also preceded Mr. Fitch as president of the Institute of Public Administration.
        Mr. Fitch, who was born in Merriman, Neb., spent his early years on a cattle ranch and attended a one-room country school for seven years. Later, he liked to say he was the only public official in New York City who could rope, tie and brand a calf.
        He graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from Chadron State College in Chadron, Neb., in 1935, received a master's from the University of Nebraska in 1938 and a doctorate from Columbia University in 1946.
        In addition to his wife of 59 years, the former Violet Vaughn of Hightstown, Mr. Fitch is survived by a daughter, Linda Fitch of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Val, a Nobel laureate in physics, also of Princeton; a sister, Helen Logsdon of Millersburg, Ohio; a half-sister, Judith Singleton of Fayetteville, Ark., and two grandsons.
      