
        Michael Bruno, a former head of Israel's central bank and a chief economist of the World Bank who was widely regarded as a leading authority on fighting inflation, died in Jerusalem on Thursday . He was 64.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Bruno, the son of a physician, was born in Germany in 1932 and moved to Palestine with his family after Hitler came to power. He studied mathematics and economics at Cambridge University in England in the 1950's and completed a doctorate in economics at Stanford University before returning to become the director of research for the Bank of Israel.
        In 1963 he joined the faculty of Hebrew University in Jerusalem, which remained his academic home until his death.
        But Mr. Bruno is largely remembered as a hands-on development economist. In 1975 he served on a government committee that revamped the Israeli tax system with an eye toward making it friendlier to private enterprise. And in 1976 he became the senior policy adviser to the Finance Minister, who was struggling with the increasing serious economic liabilities of maintaining Israel in a permanent war footing.
        Israel's assault on inflation was largely won in 1985 using an unusual approach pioneered by Mr. Bruno, one that checked price increases without forcing Israelis to cope with an extended period of high unemployment.
        And as governor of the Bank of Israel from 1986 to 1991, he spent much of his political capital defending the anti-inflation program. ''Stabilization often works for a few months,'' explained Stanley Fischer, the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund; ''Michael cemented its enduring success in Israel.''
        Mr. Bruno's program to battle inflation was built around the rapid elimination of the inflationary expectations that haunt many less developed countries and often require years of economic austerity to exorcise. The program was widely imitated in Latin America and also helped to inspire the ''shock therapy'' later applied to transition economies in eastern Europe, notably Poland and the Czech Republic.
        His less well-known, but equally important accomplishment in the eyes of many Israelis, was the design of a successful plan for integrating hundreds of thousands of Soviet Jews into the Israeli economy. Rather than dictate where they would live and how they would earn a living, Mr. Bruno argued that free markets could manage the process if the immigrants were given cash for the transition and Israel's national labor union relaxed its control of job creation.
        In 1991 he moved to Washington to become chief economist with the  World Bank, where he became an important figure in refocusing the bank's mission. With his encouragement, the World Bank has accented its role as a clearinghouse for research while retreating from the routine of funneling capital into economies that can attract private investors.
        Mr. Bruno is survived in Israel by his wife Netta, an educational social worker at the Hebrew University, and three children by an earlier marriage, Yael, Ido and Asa.
      