
        Sydney M. Pozer, a Canadian gunner who survived the crash landing of a burning British bomber in World War II to become one of the prisoners who conspired against their German captors to organize the mass breakout known as the Great Escape, died on Friday at his home in Prince George, British Columbia. He would have turned 79 today.
        His wife, Betty, said he died of a  heart attack.
        On March 24, 1944, Mr. Pozer was a flight lieutenant among the 800  Allied prisoners in the north compound of Stalag Luft III, in Sagan, Germany, about 60 miles southeast of Berlin, when some 80 prisoners chosen by lottery -- he was not among them -- made a bid for freedom through a cramped 348-foot tunnel 30 feet underground.
        Of the 76 who evaded immediate capture, 3 succeeded in reaching England. The rest were seized, and 50 were killed by the Gestapo on Hitler's personal orders after they were retaken in a vast manhunt.
        The escape plot was carried out under the noses of the guards and involved two years of preparations, including the digging of three tunnels  known as Tom, Dick and Harry, moving 100 tons of yellow sand, manufacturing forged documents, making maps, conducting language classes and creating civilian costumes and fake uniforms, among other feats. The story was recorded in the 1949 book ''The Great Escape,'' by Paul Brickhill, himself a Stalag Luft III prisoner.
        The adventure was dramatized on television in 1951 and retold in the  1963 film ''The Great Escape,'' starring Steve McQueen, James Garner and Richard Attenborough.
        Yesterday Mrs. Pozer and Mr. Pozer's flight commander and fellow prisoner, Peter Cairns of Berkswell, England, said that Mr. Pozer had been assigned as a lookout to warn the tunnelers of the approach of German guards with a system of signals that sometimes involved pretending to read a newspaper that was opened and closed as the situation dictated.  He also helped acquire equipment.
        Mr. Cairns drew the last number in the lottery -- 200, but the escape route through the tunnel known as Harry was closed down before his turn came.
        According to Mrs. Pozer and Mr. Cairns, Mr. Pozer had flown more than 40 missions by April 26, 1942. That night, they said, after a bomb run over Duisburg, on the Rhine River at the mouth of the Ruhr in Germany's heavily industrialized north, the pilot had set a course for home when engine trouble developed.
        Under attack by a German fighter, Mr. Cairns crash-landed the plane in the dark. Only three of the crew members survived.
        Mr. Pozer, his head cut and his right shoulder crushed, was taken from the crash site, near the coastal town of Bergen in the Netherlands, to a hospital in Amsterdam. A month later, Mr. Pozer joined the prisoners at Stalag Luft III. Toward the end of the war, as the Soviet Army approached Sagan, now part of Poland,  the prisoners were released to rejoin , and after a forced march to Berlin, established contact once again with their own forces.
        Mr. Pozer was born in Duck Lake, Saskatchewan, in 1917. After the war, he worked as a clerk in a menswear store in Chilliwack, British Columbia, owned and operated a motel in Prince George for 10 years until 1967 and worked in motel management in and around Prince George until he retired in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Knudsen, whom he married in 1949; five children: Lee-Ann Walker of Prince George; Betty Jean Swanson of Red Lake, Ontario; Robin of Kelowna, British Columbia; Gordon of Hinton, Alberta, and Bruce  of Prince George; a brother, Harold, of Kelowna, and a sister, Phyllis Mitchner, of Penticon, British Columbia, and eight grandchildren.
      