
        John Vassall, the high-living, low-level British Admiralty clerk whose exposure as a Soviet spy in 1962 created the first of the sex scandals that helped end the political career of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan, died in London on Nov. 18, his lawyer said yesterday. He was 71.
        The lawyer, Peter Kingshill, said that Mr. Vassall, who had been living under the surname of Phillips since his release from prison in 1972, was pronounced dead after suffering a heart attack near a subway station.
        The police who raided his plush London apartment in 1962 found photographs of 140 secret naval documents the authorities said would ''gravely damage the state's security'' in the hands of the Soviet Union.  And Mr. Vassall admitted that he had been supplying his Soviet spymaster with similar documents for six years.
        But what created a major furor in Parliament and gripped the attention of the British public was less the secrets Mr. Vassall had stolen than the salacious details of how he had been recruited as a spy in the first place and the flagrant way of life he had pursued without arousing the suspicion of his superiors.
        As Mr. Vassall recounted in a newspaper series after his arrest, he had been serving as a junior naval attache in the British Embassy in Moscow in 1955 when he was blackmailed into becoming a spy after being plied with liquor by K.G.B. agents and photographed in a compromising position with ''two or three men.''
        After he was assigned to the Admiralty the next year, Mr. Vassall said, he routinely photographed secret documents and passed them on to his handlers in return for money.
        His downfall came after the British arrested a group of spies in January 1961 and found microfilm of documents that could only have come from the Admiralty. Even so, it was more than a year before British investigators focused on Mr. Vassall and six more months before he was arrested.
        His arrest touched off a field day in the British press and one of the century's most rancorous sessions of Parliament.
        How, it was asked, could a $28-a-week clerk have acquired a $1,000 antique cabinet, 100 silk ties and 19 suits, let alone an apartment at one of London's most fashionable addresses, without arousing suspicion?
        The furor about his homosexuality  reached such a point that the Macmillan Government was forced to appoint a board of inquiry to look into Admiralty security measures.
        At a time when homosexual acts were illegal in Britain, the issue of Mr. Vassall's sexual proclivities was considerered so troubling that when the Profumo scandal erupted the next year Prime Minister Macmillan was reported to have exclaimed, ''Thank God it's girls.''
        The two scandals were considered a major factor in Mr. Macmillan's decision to resign in October 1963.
        Mr. Vassall had lived quietly under an assumed name since his release in 1972 after serving 11 years of an 18-year sentence.
        According to friends, Mr. Vassall, the son of the rector of a fashionable London church, had become very religious in the last years of his life.
        His reputation, however, lived on.
        Last week, for example, Sir Fergus Montgomery, a member of Parliament, disclosed that he had been forced to resign as Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's private parliamentary secretary in 1976 because other members had learned that he had been friendly with Mr. Vassall in the months before his arrest.
        And when it was announced in 1993 that Anne, the Princess Royal, and her new husband would move into Dolphin Square, an apartment complex on the Thames, it was widely noted that the address had been home to such illustrious former tenants as Charles deGaulle, C. P. Snow, Sir Oswald Mosley, former Prime Minister Harold Wilson and both Christine Keeler and John Vassall.
      