
        Dr. Harlan Philip Hanson, a former professor and college dean who spent decades helping students put their college educations on the fast track, died on Nov. 28 at North Adams Central Hospital in North Adams, Mass. A resident of Williamstown, Mass., he was 71 and also kept a residence in Princeton, N.J., while working for the College Board in New York City.
        The cause was cancer, said officials at Williams College, where he had an earlier career as a professor of German, chairman of the German-Russian department and dean of freshmen.
        From 1965 until his retirement in 1989, Dr. Hanson was the director of the Advanced Placement Program of the College Board, formerly the College Entrance Examination Board. A consortium of colleges and universities, the board, which is based in Manhattan, sponsors the Advanced Placement and Scholastic Assessment Test programs intended to guide a student's path from high school to solid achievement in college.
        He steered A.P., as it is known, from modest beginnings to national recognition. The idea was to enable gifted high school students to complete college-level courses and obtain college placement and credit, depending on how well they performed in the examinations.
        For 23 of his 25 years at the helm of Advanced Placement, Dr. Hanson administered the program single-handedly, with some secretarial help and advice from the Educational Testing Service in Lawenceville, N.J.. The service develops the College Board's testing materials, and A.P. offers 30 examinations in 18 academic disciplines.
        When he set out, advance placement courses were offered in fewer than 100 high schools, and not even 50 respectable colleges accepted advance placement. He helped increase participation to more than 8,000 high schools and nearly 2,000 colleges.
        During his tenure, the volume of A.P. programs grew tenfold, from 34,000 students taking 45,000 exams in 1965 to nearly 315,000 applicants in 1989 wrestling with 464,000 questionnaires demanding answers and essays. Last year, the board administered 843,000 exams under the Advance Placement Program, said Dr. Hanson's successor, Wade Curry.
        Dr. Hanson was born in Madison, Wis., and had finished his freshman year at Harvard when he was drafted in 1943 to serve with the Army Air Force in the United States and Europe. He was a summa cum laude German graduate of Harvard in 1948.
        He toured Europe on a scholarship, acquiring the Alsatian accent and a special affection for that province. As a graduate student at Harvard, he tutored and taught in the department of Germanic languages and literatures.
        He received a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1959 and published essays on Arthur Schnitzler and translations of works by German historians.
        At Williams College in the 1950's, he directed the Program of Advanced Standing at Harvard College, which gave students more flexibility in planning their last two college years. He was also on the first committee to develop a German examination for the College Board, in 1954.
        He took part in an early effort by college administrators in Europe to set up a curriculum and university entrance examinations honored internationally. After years of negotiations among education ministries, that spadework helped create an International Baccalaureate granted by 380 schools in 56 countries.
        Dr. Hanson is survived by his wife of 46 years, Dorothea Reynolds Hanson; three sons, Caleb C., of Malden, Mass., John G. S., of Sudbury, Mass., and Charles P., of Crete, Neb.; a daughter, Dorothea Omerovic, also of Crete; a sister, Carol L. Hanson of Little Compton, R.I., and seven grandchildren.
      