
        Georges Duby, one of the world's great medieval scholars and a member of the Academie Francaise, died on Tuesday at his home in Aix-en-Provence in southern France. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, according to the College de France in Paris, where he was a professor of the history of medieval societies from 1970 until he retired three years ago.
        Professor Duby's oeuvre embraced much of the era in which he made his intellectual home. His writings traced the history of French civilization and the condition of women through the Middle Ages as well as the architecture of Gothic cathedrals and the mores of chivalry.
        He recently edited a five-volume work, the 1991 ''Histoire des Femmes.'' Other recent titles, as yet published only in French, included ''L'Histoire de Venise par la Peinture,'' ''L'Histoire de Paris par la Peinture'' (1991) and ''La Chevalerie'' (''Chivalry'').
        He wrote, with Michelle Perrot, ''Power and Beauty: Images of Women in Art'' (1993) and ''History Continues'' (1994).
        As Professor Duby gained renown as a medievalist, many of his books were translated into English, to the generous praise of American reviewers. More than 20 of them are still in print in the United States.
        One highly regarded work was ''The Age of the Cathedrals: Art and Society, 980-1420'' (1981). Professor Duby made these architectural wonders rise again in all their lacy splendor as he put them into historical context.
        If the book had a fault, wrote John Russell in The New York Times, ''it is that Professor Duby knows too much, has too many new ideas and takes such a delight in setting them out.''
        ''An exceptional intelligence marches to the beat of a kettledrum,'' Mr. Russell added, in a book that ''can be read with pleasure even by those who would not normally be drawn to the subject.''
        Another acclaimed work was ''William Marshal: The Flower of Chivalry'' (1985), based on a 13th-century manuscript that featured a forgotten poem. Its protagonist, and focus of Professor Duby's historical panorama, was Guillaume le Marechal, a knight-errant who rose from relative obscurity to become the Earl of Pembroke.
        In 1986 he collaborated with several scholars to produce ''A History of Private Life,'' the first systematic overview of the private sphere in the West, beginning with ancient Rome. The first three books in the five-volume series were directed by Professor Duby and Philippe Aries.
        Georges Michel Claude Duby was born in Paris and graduated in 1942 from the University of Lyons, where he began his teaching career and earned a doctorate in 1953.
        Before he joined the faculty at the College de France, he taught at the Universities of Besancon and Aix Marseilles in Aix-en-Provence.
        He was a recipient of prestigious awards from the Academie Francaise. A Commander of the Legion of Honor, he was elected to the academy in 1987.
        Professor Duby was married in 1942 to Andree Combier, and they had a son, Jean, and two daughters, Catherine Kouchner and Martine Piovesan.
        It was not immediately known if there were survivors.
      