
        Bill Goodstein, the lawyer who fiercely represented two of the most prominent New York baseball players of the 1980's, Darryl Strawberry and Dave Righetti, died Saturday after collapsing at his Manhattan office. He was 56.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, according to his daughter Lauren Goodstein. She said her father was taken to Bellevue Hospital, where he was pronounced dead.
        As an agent, Mr. Goodstein was best known for handling negotiations for Mr.  Righetti throughout his career and for Mr. Strawberry during the past year. His  work for Mr. Strawberry included tense, sometimes contentious talks with the Yankees last summer when the player was trying to revive his career after troubles off the field with drugs and a sentence for tax evasion.
        Talks were stormy between Mr. Goodstein and the Yankees' owner, George Steinbrenner, but the lawyer was able to secure a deal for the outfielder. Mr. Strawberry saw little action, however, and the American League club opted not to retain Mr. Strawberry's services.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Goodstein secured multimillion-dollar contracts for Mr. Righetti and at one point entertained offers from a Japanese team after the Yankees' record-setting reliever became a free agent in 1990. Mr. Righetti eventually re-signed with New York but has pitched for four other major league clubs since then.
        "He certainly was dedicated and loyal," Mr. Righetti said from his Los Altos, Calif., home yesterday. "My feelings are so deep for him. Outside of my brother  and my dad, he's the only other man I loved. Without him there's no New York for me."
        In addition to his work with sports and entertainment figures, Mr. Goodstein, a graduate of Stuyvesant High School, Columbia and Columbia Law School, served as counsel to the New York City Board of Corrections, special counsel to the Mollen Commission, the Mayor's committee on the judiciary and other boards and committees in New York.
        In addition to his daughter Lauren, Mr. Goodstein is survived by his wife, Barbara, another daughter, Cynthia, and a brother, Charles.
      