
        Pete Rozelle, the commissioner who presided over the changes that made the National Football League the premier professional sports organization over the last four decades, died at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., on Friday. He was 70.
        The cause was brain cancer. Mr. Rozelle had a benign brain tumor removed in December 1993.
        During his nearly 30 years as commissioner -- which spanned the terms of eight Presidents -- Mr. Rozelle oversaw a merger and expansion that more than doubled the size of the league, obtained the most lucrative television contract in sports, established Monday night football and introduced revenue-sharing among the teams.
        On his watch, the N.F.L. rose to unprecedented heights of popularity, so much so that, in the eyes of its followers, it surpassed baseball as the national pastime. It also enjoyed huge economic success, attracting escalating television contracts, marketing income and expansion fees.
        But his monument to the sport was the Super Bowl. Soon after the first championship matchup between the established N.F.L. and the upstart American Football League in 1967, the Super Bowl became one of the most watched television programs, garnering ever higher rights' fees from the networks and escalating ticket prices.
        Indeed, when he surprised his employers, the owners of N.F.L. teams, by announcing his retirement on March 23, 1989, Mr. Rozelle said that the strongest reflection of his tenure was not the merger with the A.F.L., which became final in 1970, nor the expansion from 12 to 28 teams. He instead cited the Super Bowl.
        ''The most fun thing was watching the development of the Super Bowl because the game is what it's all about,'' he said at the time. ''I really felt a high at every Super Bowl, with all the glitz and the spectacular halftime shows.''
        When Mr. Rozelle retired, 9 of the 10 television programs with the largest audiences in history were Super Bowls, with No. 1 being Super Bowl XX, between the Chicago Bears and the New England Patriots, in 1986, with 127 million viewers. Moreover, four polls taken between 1978 and 1985 declared that pro football was America's favorite sport.
        Mr. Rozelle was also consistent in naming the decision he most regretted as commissioner: playing N.F.L. games on Sunday, Nov. 24, 1963, two days after John F. Kennedy was assassinated. He called the decision a mistake, even though he had sought advice from Pierre Salinger, the President's press secretary and a friend from Mr. Rozelle's days at the University of San Francisco.
        ''In the afternoon, I went to the Giants' game,'' Mr. Rozelle said in 1994. ''We had a moment of silence. I could not concentrate on the game. I brooded about my decision the entire game. You have to understand, I was more than depressed over the assassination. I had lost someone whom I'd respected as the leader of our country, but I was also a close friend of the Kennedy family.''
        As a leader, Mr. Rozelle blended compromise with showmanship (he was an ever present figure with an ever present tan) and was a moderate man with more wit than ego.
        His 29-year term as the leader of the N.F.L. came in two parts, the first beginning with his unlikely election on Jan. 26, 1960, at age 33. It featured unprecedented success for the league and for his C.E.O.-like control of it, along with his reputation as the most skilled head of any pro sports league. The second part of his reign, beginning in the mid-1970's, was less satisfying, with years of turmoil and litigation that led to his resignation.
        Afterward, he largely withdrew from the professional sports scene.  He is survived by his wife, Carrie; his first wife, Jane Coupe of San Clemente, Calif., from whom he was divorced; one brother, Richard Rozelle of Escondido, Calif., one daughter, Anne Marie Bratton of Dallas, and two grandchildren.
        Alvin Ray Rozelle, nicknamed Pete at the age of 5 by an uncle, was born on March 1, 1926, in Los Angeles and grew up in the suburb of Compton. He went to Compton Junior College and, late in World War II, served on a Navy coastal tanker that, he said, never went far from San Pedro, the Southern California port.
        Sports was always an interest, if not a passion. He sometimes mentioned that Duke Snider, a high school teammate and later a Hall of Fame player for the Dodgers, in Brooklyn and later in Los Angeles, knocked out his two front teeth in a basketball practice.
        He found work as the sports information director at the University of San Francisco, for $250 a month, when its football and basketball teams were prominent.
        A publicity trip before a football game with Fordham at Randalls Island Stadium in 1951, brought Rozelle to New York for the first time. He was impressed. ''The big time,'' he later said. Los Angeles was next, as the public relations director for the N.F.L.'s Rams. After a brief interlude in public relations with a San Francisco firm, he returned to the Rams as general manager.
        In October 1959, Bert Bell, the N.F.L. commissioner since 1946, died at a Philadelphia Eagles game. In January, at a meeting in the Kenilworth Hotel in Miami Beach, the owners of the 12 teams broke a nine-day deadlock by choosing Mr. Rozelle, a compromise candidate, on the 23d ballot.
        Mr. Rozelle, representing the Rams, had been told to leave the room during the last voting, but not to go far. He went to the men's room where, he said, he washed his hands when anyone came in. ''I must have washed my hands 50 times.'' Later, when he was addressing the owners as the league's new commissioner, he said, ''I can honestly say I come to you with clean hands.''
        The new commissioner moved the headquarters from Mr. Bell's Philadelphia to New York and commenced a courtship of television.
        The first of Mr. Rozelle's several fruitful petitions to Congress brought about the legalization of single-network television contracts for professional sports leagues. In 1961, CBS signed up to televise the 98 regular-season games for an annual fee of $4.65 million. In 1987, the last pact of his era, among three networks, returned $420 million annually. Such growth affected the value of team franchises that, in Mr. Rozelle's time, went up in transfer deals to $80 million from $2 million.
        By initiating the teams' sharing of the revenue from television and with such later innovations as N.F.L. Films and NFL Properties, or contributions to other firsts like N.F.L. Alumni, N.F.L. Charities and the N.F.L. Hall of Fame, Mr. Rozelle put in place the all-for-one, one-for-all concept among the franchises.
        He was hardly responsible for the emerging pervasiveness of television. But he did direct its growth with pro football through the eras of blackouts of local teams, Sunday doubleheaders, the Monday night game, which began in 1970, and expanded playoffs.
        His first landmark, however, had to do with people, not television. In 1962, he fined George Halas, a league founder and the owner-coach of the Chicago Bears, for abusing field officials. Mr. Halas accepted the fine and thereafter was one of Mr. Rozelle's strongest supporters.
        And because Mr. Rozelle was so shocked by the college basketball gambling scandals of 1951, he set up an advanced security program. In 1963, he fined and suspended two star players, Paul Hornung of the Green Bay Packers and Alex Karras of the Detroit Lions, for placing bets on N.F.L. games. The suspensions lasted only one season, the fines were minor ($2,000 for each player) and the betting incidents now appear small. But the suspensions represented the establishment of his authority.
        But his efforts to resolve division-of-money issues between the owners and the players' union became heated in the 1970's. The so-called Rozelle rule, which required a team signing a free agent to compensate the player's former team with another player or draft choices to be decided by the commissioner, was declared illegal in a suit brought by John Mackey and other players. It eventually cost the league $13.65 million in damages.
        In an earlier blow, his policy of ''league think'' -- his mantra promoting unselfishness among the franchises -- was undermined by Al Davis, the maverick owner of the Raiders. Davis won an antitrust case that permitted him to move his team from Oakland to Los Angeles, against the voted wish of the other owners. The jury decision cost the N.F.L. about $50 million and set a precedent for unilateral action subsequently exercised by other owners.
        At the end of the season the Raiders, having moved to Los Angeles, won the Super Bowl. Mr. Rozelle presented the trophy to Mr. Davis with his congratulations in the customary locker room ceremony.
        ''That was Pete's finest moment,'' said Ed Sabol, the founder of NFL Films. ''He never flinched, while Al never looked him back in the eyes.''
        ROZELLE AND TELEVISION
        A look at Pete Rozelle's role in shaping the relationship between professional football and television sports. SportsSunday, section 8, page 3.
      