
        Jose Donoso, one of Chile's best-known authors, whose novels and short stories used dark surrealism and social satire to explore the haunted lives of exiles and writers and a world of aristocratic excesses, died on Saturday in Santiago. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Donoso died of cancer at his home, his niece Claudia Donoso told The Associated Press.
        One of the major figures of the Latin American literary boom of the 1960's and 1970's, Mr. Donoso crafted multilayered visions of social disintegration and human fallibility that were sometimes compared with those of Colombia's Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Mexico's Carlos Fuentes and Peru's Mario Vargas Llosa.
        After a youthful wanderlust that took him across South America, the United States and Europe, Mr. Donoso began writing short stories and novellas in the 1950's. But his first great success -- regarded by critics as his masterpiece -- was ''The Obscene Bird of Night,'' a 1971 novel about characters on a run-down Chilean estate and a residence for elderly women. It contrasts sterile embittered old age with the decadence of aristocrats, all of whom are afflicted with some physical deformity.
        While his earlier work had been praised as imaginative and unified by themes of death and decay in Chile's rigidly structured society, ''The Obscene Bird of Night'' was more ambitious, critics said when it was published in English by Knopf in 1973. It transcended Chilean boundaries, they said, and carried its author into the emerging stream of Latin American writers experimenting with legends, myths, bizarre plots, multiple identities and grotesque fantasies.
        In The New York Times Book Review Robert Coover called it ''a dense and energetic book, full of terrible risk-taking, populated with legendary saints and witches, mad old crones and a whole estate-ful of freaks and monsters, and narrated by a disturbed deaf-mute.''
        Mr. Donoso's more than 20 novels and collections of short stories, many of them translated into English, include ''Coronation,'' ''Charleston and Other Stories,'' ''Hell Has No Limits,'' ''A House in the Country,'' ''The Garden Next Door'' and ''Curfew.''
        In dense, elaborately constructed plots sometimes compared with  works by Henry James and Marcel Proust, Mr. Donoso's books were peopled with upper-class families clinging to privileges, children exposed to the hypocrisy of adults, expatriates searching for identity, and a nightmarish gallery of criminals, widows, prostitutes, political bosses, magicians and dreamers.
        Mr. Donoso had a long association with the United States, attending Princeton University and later teaching there and at the University of Iowa. One of last works was  ''Where Elephants Go to Die'' (1995),  about a Chilean professor who goes to teach in the United States.
        The scion of a wealthy, eccentric Santiago family, Jose Donoso was born in a Santiago suburb on Oct. 5, 1924, and grew up in a privileged world of servants, limousines and  English tutors. As a young man, he flitted from the life of a social dandy in Santiago to shepherding in Patagonia and hobnobbing with sailors and stevedores on the docks of Buenos Aires.
        In 1949, he won a scholarship to study at Princeton, where he was not a good student but wrote short stories in English for a literary journal that became his first published works. Returning to Chile, he was a journalist for five years in Santiago, covering, as he put it, ''everything from earthquakes to new books, from fashion shows to revolutions.''
        But he also continued to write fiction. In 1962, four years after its publication, his novel ''Coronation'' -- a strange tale of the mock crowning and death of an aged widow and her grandson's descent into madness, at the hands of their servants -- won the William Faulkner Foundation Prize, giving the author his first wide international recognition.
        Convinced that his work was being stifled by his surroundings, Mr. Donoso moved to Mexico City, where he became a close friend of Carlos Fuentes. He later moved to Europe, and for many years in the 1960's and 1970's lived in Spain, mostly in Barcelona, where he wrote many of his most famous works.
        Mr. Donoso returned to Chile in the early 1980's. Though he had never seen himself as a political exile, he was a passionate critic of the authoritarian regime of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, who overthrew President Salvador Allende Gossens in 1973. Mr. Donoso was not a spokesman for Chilean leftists, but he occasionally wrote anti-Government articles and he was arrested briefly in a 1985 protest against the dismissal of dissident writers from teaching jobs.
        He also criticized what he regarded as the crass commercialism of Chile's relatively prosperous society in the 1990's, and accused some publishers of chasing profits at the expense of good writing. ''Chile is a country that has forgotten its soul,'' he said in an interview last year.
        In 1990, Mr. Donoso was awarded the Chilean National Literature Prize, his nation's highest literary award. But he conceded in October of last year that writing had become a psychological torment for him. Bearded, bespectacled, weakened by illness, he said: ''The agony of having to write is terrible, of feeling empty, that you amount to nothing.''
        Mr. Donoso is survived by his wife, the former Maria Pilar Serrano, whom he married in 1961, and by a daughter, Pilar.
      