
        Arthur Rudolph, the developer of the giant Saturn 5 rocket, which launched a  crew of American astronauts on the first manned flight to the moon in 1969, died on Friday after he lapsed into a coma at his home in Hamburg, Germany. He was 89.
        His death was reported in Huntsville, Ala., by Hugh McInnish, a friend and retired military specialist.
        Mr. Rudolph left the United States in 1984 and moved back to Germany after the Justice Department accused him of "working thousands of slave laborers to death" while director of the German factory that produced the V-2 rocket in World War II. He denied the accusation.
        He was one of 118 German rocket engineers secretly brought to the United States after the war. The group included Wernher von Braun, the father of the American rocket programs.
        Mr. Rudolph was a major figure in the Apollo Project at the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, one of the principal installations of the National  Aeronautics and Space Administration. A member of Dr. von Braun's team, he was the project manager for the Saturn, a vital and complex component of Apollo.
        The sheer size of the moon rocket was the source of his nightmares during the rocket's development and construction. "It was all harder than I ever expected," he told an interviewer in 1969. "Since it is so large and has so many components, you get more people involved, and that makes it difficult. You have to get them all to sing from the same sheet of music. My task has been as choir director."
        In addition to a few of Mr. Rudolph's top colleagues from Germany, the project involved some 100,000 people and several thousand industrial contractors who designed, built and tested rocket parts and the Saturn 5 itself. The cost was $15 billion by then for the 15 rockets on order.
        The Huntsville Saturn team got the green light in early 1962 and found that putting the enormous machine together proved one of the toughest engineering and manufacturing feats ever.
        "You want a valve that doesn't leak and you try everything possible to develop one," Mr. Rudolph said.  "But the real world provides you with a leaky valve. You have to determine how much leaking you can tolerate."
        Mr. Rudolph's association with Dr. von Braun started in Peenemunde, where scientists made the V-1 and V-2 rockets for the German war machine. Like Mr. Rudolph, Dr. von Braun faced accusations about his past. He responded that he was a scientist dedicated to rockets and space flight and nothing else.
        Mr. Rudolph first joined forces with Dr. von Braun in 1934 and remembered igniting his early rockets with lighted cigarettes.
        At the time of his entry into the United States, Mr. Rudolph was described by the American military government in Germany as an "ardent Nazi," but he was not  classified as a war criminal. Army documents from two years later showed, however, that Mr. Rudolph had indeed been classified as a war criminal by West German and United States officials.
        These documents surfaced when the Office of Special Investigations was formed in the Justice Department to investigate war crimes. The office conducted an investigation and interviewed survivors of forced labor at the V-2 factory. Fred Sher, the director of special investigations, said that this evidence was presented to Mr. Rudolph and that he signed a document agreeing to relinquish his United States citizenship. In return, the Justice Department agreed not to pursue his case in the United States.
        The Justice Department handed the information over to West Germany. In 1987 that Government ruled there was insufficient evidence to justify trying Mr. Rudolph.
        Feeling vindicated, Mr. Rudolph began trying to regain his American citizenship and return to the United States. Some present and former employees at the Marshall center and elsewhere at NASA supported him, saying that Mr. Rudolph's contribution to the American space program had never received the proper credit.
        Mr. Rudolph is survived by his wife, Martha, of Hamburg; and a daughter, Marianne Rudolph of San Jose, Calif.
        Correction:  January 17, 1996, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Jan. 3 about Arthur Rudolph, developer of the Saturn 5 moon rocket, misstated the given name of a former Justice Department official who headed a Federal unit that investigated the World War II activities of people like Mr. Rudolph who had worked in Nazi Germany. The former official is Neal M. Sher, not Fred.
      