
        Joseph Quinlan, who became an early pioneer of the ''right to die'' movement for the terminally ill 20 years ago after his 21-year-old daughter, Karen Ann, lapsed into an irreversible coma, died Saturday at his home in Wantage, N.J. He was 71.
        The cause was bone cancer, said a lawyer and family friend, Paul W. Armstrong.
        Since his discharge from the hospital in late October, Mr. Quinlan had received medical care at home under the direction of a hospice, the Karen Ann Quinlan Center of Hope, that he and his wife, Julia, founded in 1980 with $50,000 they received from the film and book rights to the story of their daughter's life and death.
        Central to the Karen Ann Quinlan story was a landmark ruling by the New Jersey Supreme Court in 1976 that gave the Quinlans the legal authority to have their daughter removed from a respirator after doctors said she had no hope of recovery.
        At the time, the case thrust Joseph and Julia Quinlan into the center of a gripping national debate on fundamental questions of life and death and the ethical, legal, theological and medical issues at stake in the use of sophisticated technology to extend the lives of the terminally ill.
        Although the Quinlans had wanted New Jersey's high court simply to give them a legal and controlling voice over her doctors and allow their daughter to die ''with dignity and grace,'' the ultimate unanimous ruling became known as sanctioning a ''right to die' for the terminally ill.
        The Quinlans frowned on that phrase because they considered it implicitly condoning suicide, said Msgr. Thomas J. Trapasso, a family friend and spiritual adviser. ''They just wanted to let God and nature take care of her,'' Monsignor Trapasso said yesterday. And, he added, they simply wanted families to have a fundamental choice in rejecting ''futile'' medical treatment that had ''no positive good'' prolonging the life of a terminally ill person.
        About six weeks after the 1976 ruling, Miss Quinlan was removed from the respirator. At the time, doctors said, she had suffered irreversible brain damage after ingesting a combination of alcohol and tranquilizers at a party in April 1975, and had no cognitive or cerebral functioning.
        To the surprise of medical experts, she continued to breathe without the respirator and lived for nine more years, before dying of pneumonia in June 1985 at a nursing home in Morris Plains, N.J.
        Over those nine years, Miss Quinlan remained in what her doctors called a ''persistent vegetative state.'' Though comatose, she was nourished through a tube that fed nutrients into her digestive system.
        It was not until January 1985, five months before Miss Quinlan's death at age 31, that New Jersey's Supreme Court broadened its standard on the ''right to die,'' ruling that all life-sustaining medical treatment, including feeding tubes, could be withdrawn from terminally ill patients.
        Mr. Quinlan never sought the legal right to remove his daughter's feeding tube. He wanted the respirator removed, he said later, because he thought it caused his daughter pain.
        During the nine years Karen Ann remained alive, both Mr. Quinlan and his wife visited her each day in her room at the nursing home.
        Mr. Armstrong, the family's lawyer, called Mr. Quinlan a man of ''deep faith, quiet countenance and principled courage.''
        ''He felt secure in vindicating Karen's wishes,'' Mr. Armstrong said. ''And a lot of it was vindicated by his Catholic faith.''
        In the 11 years since his daughter's death, Mr. Quinlan, a reserved man, shunned the spotlight and worked quietly with his wife, counseling other families around the country with terminally ill children or relatives. Both he and his wife served as chairmen of the hospice they created in their daughter's memory and guided its growth.
        ''They believed in the right of people to die with dignity in their homes, surrounded by the people they loved,'' said Pamela Olivo, acting executive director of the hospice. It serves about 400 families in Sussex and Warren counties in northwestern New Jersey and Pike County in eastern Pennsylvania, Ms. Olivo said.
        Mr. Quinlan was born in West New York, N.J., on April 2, 1925. He was a private first class in the Army in World War II and was wounded during the Battle of the Bulge in late 1944. He received the Purple Heart.
        After the war, he worked for the Warner-Lambert pharmaceutical company in Morris Plains, N.J., and rose to shipping supervisor before retiring after his daughter's death.
        Last spring, on the 20th anniversary of the State Supreme Court's ruling, Mr. Quinlan and his wife participated in a retrospective on their daughter's case at Princeton University. It attracted scholars, doctors, ethicists and judges from around the world.
        Some of the discussion focused on doctor-assisted suicides, particularly cases from New York and Washington State that the United States Supreme Court will review in January. Most bioethical experts at the affair argued against doctor-assisted suicide, Mr. Armstrong said.
        ''But there's a substantial minority voice in American bioethics that would argue for it in limited circumstances,'' he said.
        Mr. Quinlan opposed doctors' providing medication, or taking other actions, that hasten the death of their patients, Mr. Armstrong said.
        ''He took the position that doctors are healers,'' he said. Mr. Quinlan believed his daughter's case set the legally acceptable limit on removal of life-sustaining technology and did not approve of doctors ''assisting in self-destruction,'' he said.
        Recently, Mr. Quinlan read and approved a brief opposing doctor-assisted suicide that Mr. Armstrong provided the United States Supreme Court for the Medical Society of New Jersey.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Quinlan is survived by a son, John, of Montague, N.J., and a daughter, Mary Ellen Forzano of Wantage.
      