
        Sidney Grossman, an innovative entrepreneur who salvaged forests, sold Army tanks for tractors, turned home buyers into home builders and recycled entire towns, died on Thursday at his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 91 and had been president of his family's lumber business in Quincy, Mass., from 1948 to 1968.
        To say that Mr. Grossman thought big would be an understatement. Perhaps because he was the adored baby in a family of nine children, Mr. Grossman grew up to become a distinctly gregarious man, one whose magnetic personality made him a master salesman even as his lifelong penchant for dreaming earned him a reputation for the grand conceptualization.
        By the time he joined his father and older brothers in the family business, L. Grossman & Sons, straight out of high school in the early 1920's, the business had changed considerably since 1881, when his father, Louis Grossman, arrived from Russia and began selling needles and other notions door to door from a backpack.
        As the founder's grandson, David Grossman, was telling it yesterday, the critical juncture came in 1900 after Mr. Grossman had moved up to a horse and wagon and began delivering animal bones to a factory outside Quincy for processing into roofing shingles.
        He was starting back after making a delivery when a factory executive, chiding him for missing an opportunity, provided what became a family rallying cry: ''Grossman, don't go home empty.''
        Accepting the challenge, Mr. Grossman loaded his wagon with shingles, found a ready market in Quincy, eventually added lumber and other building materials to his line and laid the groundwork for what became the largest lumber and home-supply retailing operation in the region. When it was sold in 1969, it had stores in seven states from Maine to New York.
        No one ever needed to remind Sidney Grossman not to go home empty. By the time he took charge of the company in 1948 he had already established his reputation for turning disaster into profit.
        His first major coup came in the wake of the 1938 hurricane that devastated New England, killing hundreds of people and felling millions of trees. After the Federal Government paid owners for the damaged trees, Mr. Grossman persuaded the family to buy the trees from the Government and to set up a network of sawmills to process them into lumber.
        It was a daring move in 1938, but paid off. The multimillion-dollar deal produced 800 million board feet of lumber.
        Mr. Grossman, who enlisted in the Army Reserve in 1934 and was called to active duty in the summer of 1941, developed his salvage skills further when he was put in charge of salvage operations in France six days after the Normandy invasion. The effort earned him the Army Legion of Merit and provided valuable experience.
        Recognizing the profit potential in the vast amounts of war surplus being sold for a pittance, Mr. Grossman again proved his shrewdness, selling rocket tubes for water pipes, for example, and, in his most daring and conspicuous undertaking, selling tanks to farmers for conversion into tractors.
        Mr. Grossman, who also knew the value of publicity, kept one parked in front of his Quincy headquarters.
        Like William Levitt and others, Mr. Grossman also saw the potential for profit in satisfying the long pent up demand for homes in the lush years after the war. But unlike Mr. Levitt, who hired armies of construction workers to turn potato fields into vast subdivisions, Mr. Grossman eliminated the labor costs by selling kits, complete with architectural drawings, lumber and other materials, to buyers with a modicum of carpentry skills who could build their homes with the help of friends or relatives.
        Thousands of such homes sprang up on vacant lots all over New England, said Mr. Grossman's son, David, who noted that the various models named for his sisters were not hard to spot amid the Cape Cods and other New England housing.
        ''They look pretty Spartan,'' he said.
        What was surely Mr. Grossman's grandest scheme came when he began recycling entire towns abandoned by textile mills and other employers.
        His most notable success was the rescue of Sanford, Me., after Burlington Industries bought and closed the once thriving Goodall Sanford Mills in 1954, transferring the operations to the South and throwing 3,500 of the town's 15,000 residents out of work.
        As he did with other one-company towns, Mr. Grossman bought the abandoned factories and other Goodall property, including a country club, an airport and various water rights, and lured a variety of smaller industries to move in, often arranging the financing.
        Today Sanford, which became known as ''the town that refused to die,'' is a thriving community of 23,000 people and an array of diversified industries, none employing more than a few hundred people.
        In addition to his son, of Newton, Mass., Mr. Grossman is survived by two daughters, Ina Perlmutter of Evanston, Ill., and Beth Blankstein of Waban, Mass; three sisters, Abba Fleishman and Etta Milchen of Quincy and Sarah Hellmann of Chestnut Hill, Mass., 13 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      