
        Jules Davids, a retired Georgetown University professor whose scholarly works on American diplomacy were eclipsed by his almost offhand contributions to someone else's book, died on Friday at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. He was 75 and had lived in Bethesda, Md.
        His wife, Frances, said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.
        In his 40 years as a teacher at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown, Mr. Davids wrote several authoritative works on diplomatic history, but for all the respect he won in scholarly circles, the writing effort that had the biggest public impact was a freelance assignment he accepted to help the husband of a former student while away his time recovering from a back injury by composing biographical sketches of notable senators.
        The former student was Jacqueline Kennedy, and the book was ''Profiles in Courage,'' which became a surprise best seller, was awarded the 1957 Pulitzer Prize for biography and has been widely credited with helping to propel its author, Senator John F. Kennedy, to the White House three years later.
        For his efforts, Mr. Davids received credit in the author's preface and a payment of $700, but none of the royalties.
        He did not complain. As his wife put it yesterday, ''$700 was a lot of money for us in those days.''
        For Mr. Davids, who received his assignment after impressing Senator Kennedy's wife in a one-semester American history course she took at Georgetown in 1954, it was hardly unusual that a student would go away singing his praises.
        From the time he began teaching at Georgetown, Mr. Davids, whose students also included Bill Clinton, was known as a warm, involved teacher who thought nothing of staying up half the night writing eight recommendations for a single student. His compelling lectures were so well researched and so insightful that he routinely won standing ovations.
        A native of New York, where his father was a city bus mechanic, Mr. Davids, who graduated from Brooklyn College, did secret work for the Treasury Department in World War II and took night courses at Georgetown, began teaching in 1947 after receiving a master's degree from the School of Foreign Service and a doctorate in history.
        By the time he retired in 1986, Mr. Davids had become an academic fixture in the foreign policy establishment, as a senior staff member of the Council on Foreign Relations, for example, as the author of its book, ''The U.S. in World Affairs, 1964,'' and as a member of the research council of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
        He was also known as a painstaking researcher, and scoured Government archives in compiling ''American Diplomatic and Public Papers,'' (Scholarly Resources), a series of more than 50 volumes that he regarded as his most lasting achievement. He was in demand as a guest lecturer or visiting professor at other colleges.
        Mr. Davids, who had published no significant works by the time he was recruited to help with ''Profiles in Courage,'' was glad for the credit.
        When his acclaimed account of 20th-century diplomatic history, ''America and the World of Our Time,'' was published in 1960, the Random House editors, at least, were not shy about hitching Mr. Davids's wagon to a Presidential star. The dust jacket, echoing the Kennedy preface to ''Profiles in Courage,'' noted that Mr. Davids had ''contributed materially to several chapters.''
        Still, it was a reflection of his comparative obscurity that Mr. Davids has been all but overlooked in the persistent rumors that someone other than Mr. Kennedy wrote the book. The chief suspect has always been Theodore C. Sorenson, the Kennedy aide who has repeatedly insisted that Mr. Kennedy wrote his own book, with, of course, a material assist from Mr. Davids.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Davids is survived by a son, Paul, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jeanie Dwyer of Bethesda, and five grandchildren.
      