
        Fred Kaplan is one of those inveterate New Yorkers, a street-smart kid from Bensonhurst who used to roller-skate to Coney Island and ride the subway into Manhattan to ice-skate in Central Park, who went on to become a well-known literary biographer and scholar firmly rooted in the City University system.
        Over the years, he could be found poring over Charles Dickens's letters at the Morgan Library or chatting with Trollope scholars at the Century Club over lunch or attending the monthly biography seminar at New York University or heading home to the Brooklyn brownstone he shares with his wife, a literary agent.
        But on Tuesday evening, Mr. Kaplan, a Distinguished Professor of English at the CUNY Graduate Center and Queens College and a biographer of Dickens, Henry James and Thomas Carlyle, had one of those urban experiences that New Yorkers quietly dread.
        On a well-populated subway train in Lower Manhattan between Canal Street and East Broadway, as Mr. Kaplan and his wife, Rhoda Weyr, were on their way to the theater, two men tried to steal her purse. When Mr. Kaplan intervened, one robber pulled out a knife and stabbed him in the chest. Mr. Kaplan, who is 59, was in serious but stable condition at Bellevue Hospital and Medical Center last night. His wife, Rhoda Weyr, was not hurt.
        Dr. H. Leon Pachter, director of the Trauma Shock Unit at Bellevue, said that the knife had barely missed injuring Mr. Kaplan's heart or abdomen. He added that Mr. Kaplan should be released by the weekend.
        The police, meanwhile, arrested two men, whom they identified as Jeffrey Davis, 22, and Jaime Warpon, 19, both of Sands Street in Brooklyn. Mr. Warpon was charged with attempted murder, robbery and assault and Mr. Davis with robbery and assault, a police spokeswoman said.
        The men were arrested by three young off-duty officers, still in training, who were riding home from an assignment protecting holiday shoppers in Brooklyn when they saw the struggle break out in the next car. Because the connecting doors were locked, they watched the attack on Professor Kaplan through the window, helpless.
        ''That was the worst part of it,'' Antonio Esparra, one of the three officers, said yesterday. ''Having a victim's wife scream for help and not being able to do anything about it is probably one of the worst feelings you could ever experience.''
        When the train, heading north on the F line, pulled into the East Broadway station, someone pulled the emergency brake, locking all the doors. A conductor let the officers into the next car. There, two of them, John Kenny and Eric Linsley, arrested Mr. Davis and Mr. Warpon.
        ''They were awfully surprised,'' Mr. Kenny said yesterday. ''There was a big look of shock on their faces when they saw us, with our badges out and our guns pointed at them. They were very surprised.''
        Messages left at the Kaplan-Weyr  home and at Ms. Weyr's office, and at the hospital, were not returned.
        Benjamin Kaplan, one of Professor Kaplan's three children from a previous marriage (he is a historian at the University of Iowa), said he could not recall his father's ever having been a victim of a serious crime in a lifetime spent roaming New York.
        Mr. Kaplan was born in the Bronx and moved with his family to Bensonhurst at 10. He attended New York City's public schools, haunted its playing fields, got a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and a Ph.D. from Columbia University, left the city for a few years, then returned in 1967.
        He went to work as an assistant professor of English at Queens College and became a full professor in 1975. He was named a Distinguished Professor in 1990, a rank that carries with it an increase in pay and a reduction in teaching responsibilities in recognition of scholarly work.
        ''New York, as everybody knows, is a breeding ground for intellectuals,'' said Alfred Kazin, who until his retirement in 1985 had an office across the hall from Professor Kaplan at the CUNY Graduate Center on West 42d Street. ''The thing about Fred Kaplan is that he is such a wonderful scholar.''
        Professor Kaplan, whom his colleague Jack Hall, another CUNY distinguished professor, described as a ''workaholic, in the best sense of the word'' had been working on a biography of Mark Twain, which he interrupted recently after Gore Vidal offered to cooperate if Professor Kaplan would write his biography.
        For many years, when his children were young, Professor Kaplan lived in Great Neck, L.I. But on many Sundays, the family would head to Chinatown for dinner. There were frequent other trips into New York City, for bagels, for pizza, to visit the grandparents in Bensonhurst, Benjamin Kaplan said.
        Then about 10 years ago, Professor Kaplan moved back into the city, first to Forest Hills, Queens, then to the Boerum Hill section of Brooklyn, where he and Ms. Weyr, by then in their 50's, bought and fixed up a brownstone on a tree-lined street, making a conscious decision to immerse themselves in New York.
        ''He made a very deliberate choice to stay in New York City,'' said Charles Molesworth, a professor of English at Queens College who has known Professor Kaplan for 30 years. ''They decided that they very much wanted to stay in the city and be part of its life.''
        It was a kind of coming home, said Benjamin Kaplan, recalling long walks with his father around Cobble Hill in Brooklyn and along the Promenade in Brooklyn Heights, and occasionally across the Brooklyn Bridge.
        ''He is a person who has traveled a lot but always is happiest in New York,'' he said. ''I think he is so deeply himself a New Yorker. He certainly has had opportunities to leave, but he has never had the slightest interest.
        ''It's something about the people. The fact that there was a Chinatown, a Little Italy, a city with that unmatched diversity. To him, that meant vitality.''
        Benjamin Kaplan said he thought his father's latest experience would not change him. ''He's a born-and-bred New Yorker with the street smarts of an earlier generation,'' he said. ''He knows the city. I think he'll continue to trust his own judgment.''
        Correction:  December 14, 1996, Saturday
        An article on Thursday about Fred Kaplan, the scholar and biographer who was wounded in a subway stabbing in Manhattan, misattributed a quotation from one of the police officers who arrested two suspects in the case. In noting that a locked door had kept the officers, in one subway car, from immediately coming to the aid of the victims in the next car, it was Officer John Kenny, not Officer Antonio Esparra, who said: ''That was the worst part of it. Having a victim's wife scream for help and not being able to do anything about it is probably one of the worst feelings you could ever experience.''
      