
        William Parsons, a retired senior partner in the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy and former chairman of the board of Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Dec. 4 at the Maine Medical Center in Portland, Me. He was 87 and lived in his native Kennebunk, Me., where he moved from Manhattan's Upper East Side in 1990.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Parsons practiced with Milbank, Tweed and predecessor firms beginning in the mid-1930's and was named a partner in 1951, specializing in trusts and estates, domestic relations, employee benefits and charitable foundations. With Harrison Tweed, he wrote ''Lifetime and Testamentary Planning,'' published by the American Law Institute.
        He spent decades in community service. He became a Teachers College trustee in 1959, was elected chairman in 1963 and served in that capacity until 1980. He was a past chairman of the distribution committee of the New York Community Trust, and chairman of the trust's Community Funds agency.
        He was a former vice chairman of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Cancer Research Institute and the Environmental Defense Fund. His other trusteeships included the Rhode Island Historical Society, the New York City Mission Society and its School for the Deaf, the Grant Foundation, the Lincoln Fund and the National Fund for Graduate Nursing Education.
        Upon his return to Kennebunk, he was active with the Brick Store Museum, Laudholm Farm and the South Congregational Church, of which he was a trustee.
        Mr. Parsons graduated from Yale College, in 1931 and received his law degree from Yale in 1934.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Louise Bigelow Parsons; two daughters, the Rev. Dr. Llewellyn P. Smith of Manchester, Mass., and the Rev. Dr. Louise P. Pietsch of Ridgefield, Conn.; a son, William P. Jr., of Locust Valley, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 14, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about William Parsons, a retired senior partner in Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy and past chairman of Teachers College, Columbia University, misstated his relationship to the New York Blood Center. He was its vice chairman at his death, not a former vice chairman.
      