
        Tom Goldstein, the former dean of the Graduate School of Journalism  at the University of California at Berkeley and a writer with a long association with New York City, has been named dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
        Mr. Goldstein, 51, will take over on July 1, replacing Joan W. Konner, who will give up the deanship on Jan. 1 but will stay on as a professor and as publisher of the Columbia Journalism Review. An interim dean will be named to fill the six months until Mr. Goldstein takes office, the university said.
        ''In my line of work, this is similar to being asked to manage the Yankees,'' Mr. Goldstein said when the announcement was made.
        Mr. Goldstein is a 1969 graduate of the school he will head -- he also received a law degree from Columbia in 1971 -- and has worked as a reporter at The Buffalo Evening News, The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times. From 1980 to 1982, he was Mayor Edward I. Koch's press secretary, and afterward began teaching journalism at the University of Florida in Gainesville before moving to Berkeley, first as a teacher of journalism and then, in 1988, as dean.
        George Rupp, Columbia's president, noted in making the announcement that Mr. Goldstein's experience in journalism, teaching and academic administration made him ''superbly qualified'' to become dean.
        Mr. Goldstein takes over a journalism school that is in many respects similar to Berkeley. Most other journalism schools in the country are predominantly undergraduate, but Columbia and Berkeley each offer only graduate degrees, Columbia for one year of study and Berkeley for two years. Neither school offers the range of public relations and advertising courses that most other journalism programs also offer. Besides print journalism, Columbia teaches television and radio news broadcasting.
        Mr. Goldstein left the deanship at Berkeley in July but he will continue to teach through next spring.
      