
        Joseph Kovago, political prisoner, Mayor of Budapest during the 1956 uprising, spokesman for Hungarians in exile and, finally, a champion of Hungarian democracy in the post-Soviet era, died on Tuesday at his home in Linwood, N.J. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        When Mr. Kovago arrived in New York with his wife and 9-year-old daughter in January 1957, he was welcomed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner at City Hall. He pleaded his country's cause before the United Nations, held office in the Captive European Nations Assembly and remained persona non grata in his homeland for more than 30 years until the end of Communist rule.
        Hungary's freely elected post-Communist Government remembered him in 1990, inviting him to the opening of Parliament, making him an honorary citizen of Budapest and decorating him for his contributions to democracy. He is to receive a state funeral in Budapest in recognition to his having stood up to both Nazis and Communists in power.
        Trained at Hungary's military academy, Mr. Kovago also received  a master's degree and was commissioned in the Hungarian Army in 1935. During the German occupation in 1944, he helped organize the resistance and was imprisoned.
        After the war, in 1945, he was elected Mayor of Budapest and a member of Parliament and, with Western aid, started to reconstruct the war-damaged capital. When the Communists began to stifle the other parties, he resigned his political posts and went to work as an engineer.
        The Communists, backed by Soviet power, took full charge in 1948 and, in a secret trial, sentenced him to life in prison as an opponent of the Government. He spent more than six years in prison until the uprising of 1956, when he was re-elected Mayor. The  rebel Government of Imre Nagy named him to a delegation that tried to negotiate with the Soviets.
        The aim was to secure Hungary's neutrality and withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact, an effort aborted by the Soviet invasion of November 1956 that crushed the uprising.
        Mr. Kovago, secretary general of the Smallholders Party, fled and became a leader in various exile groups, a role in which he lectured widely and traveled abroad as a good-will ambassador.
        He wrote ''You Are All Alone'' (Praeger, 1959), his personal account of the Hungarian uprising. At his death he had finished a volume of memoirs.
        While in the United States, he also returned to work and became a senior research engineer for Atlantic Electric Company in Northfield, N.J. After his retirement in 1978, he lectured on world politics and energy-related subjects at Stockton State College in Pomona, N.J.
        Mr. Kovago is survived by his wife of 51 years, Ilona Varga Kovago; their daughter, Katalin Kovago of Cliffside Park, N.J.; a brother, Istvan Kuronya of Budapest, and a sister, Karoline Baranyai, of Szekesfehervar, Hungary.
      