
        Alex Schoenbaum, who built the Shoney's restaurant chain from a small drive-in restaurant in West Virginia, died on Dec. 6 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. Mr. Schoenbaum, who lived in Sarasota and West Virginia, was 81.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack, hospital officials said.
        Reared during the Depression, Mr. Schoenbaum grew up setting pins at his father's bowling alleys in Charleston and Huntington, W.Va. Mr. Schoenbaum graduated from Ohio State University, where he was named by Grantland Rice as an All-American tackle from 1936 to 1938. ''I had five teeth knocked out in one game, and they wouldn't even take me out,'' he told The Charleston Gazette last year.
        In 1947, he opened the Parkette restaurant in Charleston. Soon, the Parkette grew to include Big Boy restaurant franchises, and in 1953 the Parkette was renamed Shoney's.
        In 1971, Shoney's merged with Danner Foods and evolved into a chain of family-style restaurants. The company split with the Big Boy restaurants in the 1970's, making Shoney's the third-largest family-owned restaurant group in the United States. There are now about 1,800 Shoney's restaurants in 36 states.
        Mr. Schoenbaum has not been involved in the management of Shoney's for some time and was not involved in several racial discrimination disputes in which the chain paid out millions of dollars for legal settlements and programs to provide business opportunities for blacks.
        Mr. Schoenbaum gave more than $3 million to Ohio State and helped it raise $460 million from 1985 to 1990. Last month, a business building at the university was named for him and his wife, Betty. In Sarasota, he was active in the Boys and Girls Club Foundation. The Schoenbaums donated $450,000 toward a $2.5 million center for nonprofit agencies called the Betty and Alex Schoenbaum Human Services Center.
        Mr. Schoenbaum is survived by his wife of 56 years; two sons, Jeffrey, of Tampa, Fla., and Raymond, of Atlanta; two daughters, Emily Schoenbaum of Washington, and JoAnn Miller of Oldsmar, Fla.; two brothers, Leon, of Williamsburg, Va., and Howard, of Columbus, Ohio, and seven grandchildren.
      