
        Dr. Morris S. Viteles, who helped shape the way industrial psychology is taught and practiced by writing the first modern textbook in the field and setting up the first vocational counseling center at a university, died on Dec. 7 at the Medford Leas retirement home in Medford, N.J., where he lived. He was 98.
        Dr. Viteles (pronounced vi-TELL-is), a professor emeritus at the University of Pennsylvania, got the idea for a vocational guidance center when he was doing graduate work there from 1918 to 1921, said Dr. Frank J. Landy, a professor emeritus in the psychology department at Pennsylvania State University who has chronicled the history of the field and interviewed Dr. Viteles several years ago.
        ''He looked at the first psychological clinic, a place for people to walk in to get information on adjustment and stress, and thought, 'Why shouldn't we do the same thing with problems at work?' '' Dr. Landy said. In 1921, Dr. Viteles set up a center at the University of Pennsylvania where students could be tested and get realistic information about their strengths and weaknesses and where companies could find suitable job applicants.
        The field of industrial psychology began early in this century. Its first two textbooks, published in 1910 and 1924, were ''pre-scientific, primitive and narrow,'' Dr. Landy said. When Dr. Viteles published ''Industrial Psychology'' in 1932, the mold was cast for the textbooks and curriculums in the decades to follow.
        That helped standardize what would be taught in the field, said Dr. James L. Farr, a psychology professor at Penn State and the president of the industrial psychology division of the American Psychological Association. Dr. Farr said that with that book and his later work, Dr. Viteles helped expand the field to include organizational psychology, ''moving beyond the industrial psychology of personnel selection and training into looking at work motivation, job satisfaction and leadership.''
        In the 1932 book, Dr. Landy said, ''he catalogued all the devices that could be used to scientifically gather information.'' He added, ''Earlier books were certainly moving in the right direction, but his book was the first modern book.''
        But Dr. Viteles was not content to practice industrial psychology as an academic discipline. He worked in industry for several decades as well, holding down a part-time post as personnel director at the Philadelphia Electric Company as well as his teaching post at the University of Pennsylvania.
        That came about because of the vocational guidance center, Dr. Landy said. ''Philadelphia Electric asked if he'd be willing to help them do a better job in dealing with their workers, if they could send some of their workers to him and get some of his research results,'' he said. ''Morris was a very strong character; he believed he knew best. He insinuated himself into the company, saying, 'Why don't we move some of the clinic into the company -- it's only 10 blocks away -- and do some applied research right there?' Soon, he became director of personnel.''
        Dr. Viteles also worked as a consultant for a number of other companies.
        He was also a pivotal figure in developing links between American industrial psychologists and their counterparts in other countries. ''He understood the importance of collaboration,'' Dr. Landy said. ''In Germany, France and Yugoslavia, his name is still well known.''
        Morris Simon Viteles was born on March 21, 1898, in Russia. He moved to England as an infant, then came to the United States in 1904.
        He was 16 when he graduated from high school in Philadelphia, and he earned all his degrees at the University of Pennsylvania, getting his bachelor's in 1918, master's in 1919 and doctorate in 1921. During World War II, Dr. Viteles was a consultant to the armed forces and chairman of the National Research Council Committee on Aviation Psychology.
        Dr. Viteles was dean of the Graduate School of Education at the university from 1963 to 1968, when he retired.
        His wife, Rebecca, died in 1985. There are no immediate survivors.
      