
        Martin Humphrey Moynihan, an authority on animal behavior who built the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama into a world-class scientific center, died on Dec. 3 in the General Hospital of Albi, France. He was 68 and had a farmhouse-research station in Albi.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Dr. Michael H. Robinson, director of the Smithsonian's National Zoological Park in Washington.
        Dr. Moynihan directed the center in Panama from his arrival as resident naturalist in 1957. He oversaw its transformation from a field station on Barro Colorado Island into a major research institution in tropical biology.
        Under his stewardship it acquired a large permanent scientific staff pursuing land and marine projects. The station was renamed the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in 1966.
        Dr. Moynihan remained its director until 20 years ago. Since then, he continued his research partly in Panama and in West Africa, as well as in Albi.
        He was a field biologist who roamed the world to observe animal behavior. He swam along with the reef squid in the warm waters of Atlantic Panama off the San Blas islands, with a waterproof notebook dangling from his belt. In Panama he also undertook a study of New World monkeys that would take him throughout South America to watch them in their natural habitats. In recent years he had his eye on hornbill, kingfishers and pheasants.
        His scores of papers on evolution and animal communication appeared in the Journal of Theoretical Biology and other scientific publications. He often illustrated his words with exquisite drawings of animal displays. In that, he showed a talent inherited from his mother, an artist.
        Among his books were ''The New World Primates: Adaptive Radiation and the Evolution of Social Behavior, Languages and Intelligence'' (Princeton University Press, 1976), and ''Communication and Non-Communication Among Cephalopods'' (Indiana U.; 1985).
        He also wrote a book about the social behavior and geographic variation among Andean birds, published in 1979. At his death he had completed another one, ''The Social Regulation of Competition and Aggression'' which, along with several papers, is ready for publication.
        Mr. Moynihan was born in Chicago. As a youngster he traveled extensively in Europe and acquired a working knowledge of French, German and Spanish. He graduated from Princeton University in 1950 and earned a Ph.D. in zoology at Oxford University the following year.
        In the early 1950's he tracked the European black-headed gull, related species and other birds, like some remarkably social finches. Then, under grants from the United States Public Health Service and the National Science Foundation he studied gulls in Manitoba; and gulls, terns, ducks and the like from the Gallapagos Islands to Peru to Chile and Argentina.
        A research station on Barro Colorado Island in Panama was established in the 1920's and the Smithsonian was assigned to run it soon thereafter. But it still was little more than a field station when Dr. Moynhian reached it as the resident naturalist in 1957.
        For the feat of turning the modest station into the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute he received the Smithsonian's Joseph Henry Medal for outstanding achievement as an administrator. He also was awarded a Walker Prize by the Boston Natural History Society, among other honors, and the Museum of Natural History in Paris named him a research consultant just last year.
        Dr. Moynihan is survived by his wife and associate, Dr. Olga F. Linares, an anthropologist.
      