
        Dr. Seymour Fisher, a psychologist who spent a career winnowing the chaff from widely held theories on things like psychoactive drugs, female sexuality and Freudian analysis, died on Dec. 5 in Syracuse. He was 74.
        He had a heart attack at his home in Manlius, a Syracuse suburb, and was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital, said his son, Dr. Jerid M. Fisher.
        Dr. Seymour Fisher, a professor who headed the psychology research division at the State University of New York Health Science Center at Syracuse, published 19 books and about 200 research articles, many in collaboration with others.
        ''He is best known for his pursuit of drug companies,'' said Dr. Sidney E. Cleveland, who retired as chief of the psychology service at Veterans Medical Center in Houston, ''and of their neglect in putting drugs out in the market with great claims, especially antidepressants, that haven't really been tested scientifically.'' In this field, Dr. Fisher worked with Dr. Roger P. Greenberg; a book by them called ''Putting Psychoactive Drugs to the Test'' is to be published next year by Wiley.
        Dr. Fisher and Dr. Greenberg found that many studies showing the benefits of psychoactive drugs had not been double-blind experiments -- tests in which neither the patients nor the doctors know who is getting the drug and who is getting the placebo -- because the side effects of the actual drug made it easy for test participants to guess which group they were in, Dr. Cleveland said. To stay under cover, a placebo also must produce side effects, he added.
        Many of Dr. Fisher's books have drawn a large general audience, said his wife, Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, especially his work on female sexuality. The Fishers, both psychologists, worked together on the psychology of humor, which put them into contact with comedians like Kaye Ballard, Sid Caesar and Jackie Mason.
        One popular book was ''The Female Orgasm,'' published in 1972, which said there was no basis for theories linking women's sexual responsiveness to factors like their religion or their parents' attitudes toward sex. Dr. Fisher found that responsiveness was closely linked to a woman's relationship with her father. If the father had been absent, physically or emotionally, the woman was likely to be sexually unresponsive.
        Part of the early research leading to that book found that women who enjoyed food were likely to enjoy sex as well, and that put a twist into the Fishers' social life, Rhoda Fisher said. ''When we got to somebody's house for dinner,'' she said, ''no women wanted to sit near him. They thought he'd analyze their food.''
        Dr. Greenberg and Dr. Fisher, colleagues in Syracuse, also looked at the scientific underpinnings of Freudian theory since the 1970's. Their most recent book, ''Freud Scientifically Reappraised: Testing the Theories in Therapy,'' was published this year by Wiley.
        ''People have been either accepting or rejecting Freud in totality,'' Dr. Greenberg said. ''Freud had many theories. Some of them seem substantiated by evidence, while others were not. Our task was to sort through literally thousands of studies to come out with a picture of where the evidence was strong and where it wasn't.''
        Much of Dr. Fisher's early work, some done with Dr. Cleveland, concerned how body image -- people's conscious and unconscious perceptions of their bodies -- relates to behavior. Body image had been an active area of research for neurologists around the turn of the century. Dr. Fisher helped make it an active area of psychology research in the 1950's. Seymour Fisher was born on May 13, 1922, in Baltimore. He earned his Ph.D. in psychology at the University in Chicago in 1948 and joined the health center in Syracuse  in 1961.
        In addition to his son, of Fairport, N.Y., and his wife, of Manlius, Dr. Fisher is survived by a daughter, Dr. Eve Fisher-Whitmore of Hilliard, Ohio, and one grandchild.
      