
        Cao Yu, who has been called China's foremost modern playwright, died on Friday at a hospital in Beijing. He was 86 and had been hospitalized for the past eight years, China's official Xinhua News Agency said in reporting his death.
        Mr. Cao, whose name has also been spelled Tsao Yu, was esteemed in his homeland and also won applause in the West. The Xinhua agency called him ''China's top playwright and the founding father of the country's modern drama.''
        A longtime member of the Chinese Communist party, he said in an interview in 1980, when he was the director of the People's Theater, the leading national drama troupe, ''literature is a weapon, though without bullets.''
        He is best known for his first play, ''Thunderstorm,'' which he wrote in in the early 30's. It has been described as China's most enduring 20th-century drama.
        Tisa Chang, artistic and producing director of the Pan Asian Repertory Theater in Manhattan, has called ''Thunderstorm'' the first major mainland Chinese play using Western dramatic conventions. The work has a complex plot involving adultery, incest, threatened murder and labor unrest.
        In 1935, Mr. Cao wrote another widely performed play, ''Sunrise,'' about decadence and corruption in the fleshpots of Shanghai.
        Both plays were praised by the playwright Arthur Miller, in his 1979 book ''Chinese Encounters,'' as ''impressive, fascinating tragedies of Shanghai life in the decaying China of 40 years ago.''
        Those works and Mr. Cao's 1979 play, ''Wilderness,'' are often said to form a trilogy. When ''Wilderness'' was performed in English in 1994 by the Pan Asian Repertory at Playhouse 46 in Manhattan, the New York Times critic Ben Brantley wrote that the work was ''a fascinating example of a transitional society's theater in search of a new form.'' The play is about an unjustly imprisoned peasant who escapes to get revenge on a family of rich, corrupt landowners.
        Mr. Cao was named Wan Jiabao when he was born in Hubei province. Later he took the pseudonym Cao Yu. He studied at Qinghua University and worked as an English teacher and as a screenwriter.
        After the Communist Party came to power in China in 1949, he was given a high cultural post. But during the Cultural Revolution, which lasted from 1966 to 1976, he was sent to a political re-education school for administrators in the countryside.
        In 1976, he and and other writers were rehabilitated, and the Chinese theater had a kind of renaissance.
        He is survived by his third wife, Li Yuru, and four daughters.
      