
        Dr. Louis W. Tordella, a mathematician who helped break the German military code in World War II, and later spent 16 years as the deputy director of the National Security Agency, died last Tuesday at the Bethesda Naval Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Kensington, Md.
        Recalled by colleagues yesterday as an intelligence visionary who had helped  create and shape the National Security Agency even before he became its deputy director in 1958, Dr. Tordella was regarded both as a pioneer in the development of ever more powerful and sophisticated computers to break enemy codes and as a  master administrator who pressed for establishing a combined military code-breaking operation and then virtually ran it under a series of military directors.
        A native of Garrett, Ind., Dr. Tordella received bachelor's and master's degrees at Loyola University of Chicago before obtaining a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois and beginning an academic career that was abruptly terminated by Pearl Harbor.
        Dr. Tordella, who had been teaching at Loyola, was one of a number of mathematicians recruited by the Navy to help break the German and Japanese military codes.
        As a junior officer, he was assigned to the team charged with finding the key to the German encryption device known as Enigma, which used a series of independently turning wheels, each containing the 26 letters of the alphabet, to code and decode messages.
        Working at the Nebraska Avenue Naval Security headquarters in Washington, Dr. Tordella quickly grasped how the application of higher mathematics could help decipher the endless stream of seemingly random letters transmitted by German military units.
        He was even quicker to grasp the advantages of using high-speed mechanical devices to repeatedly reformat the enemy gibberish by making every possible combination of character substitutions until a coherent message in readable German popped out.
        And since such devices did not exist, he and his colleagues simply designed and built them, not only breaking the enemy codes but helping to lay the theoretical and practical groundwork for what has become a vast computer industry.
        As a civilian with the Navy after the war, Dr. Tordella, one of the first to  see the advantages of combining the code-breaking -- and code-making -- operations of the three military services, was assigned to Armed Forces Security Agency, which was created in 1949 to do just that.
        Because of inter-service rivalries and jealousies, the agency was placed under a joint command requiring the unanimous agreement of the three services for every decision, a requirement that Dr. Tordella and others soon realized was a fatal flaw.
        He was in the forefront of the behind-the-scenes campaign to replace the Armed Forces Security Agency with a truly unified military intelligence unit.
        The National Security Agency, which was created in 1952 as an independent Defense Department agency under the direction of a rotation of military officers drawn from the three military services for three-year terms, proved tailor-made  for his technical and administrative skills.
        Once he became deputy director in 1958, Dr. Tordella, who served under six separate directors until his retirement in 1974, became the agency's indispensable man, running its day-to-day operations, developing technical innovations and advanced personnel systems and serving as its continuing liaison with allied intelligence units.
        "He had the power to make his word stick," the current deputy director, William P. Crowell, said yesterday, noting that Dr. Tordella had, among other things, been the moving force behind the agency's early and vast push into computers and had continued to advise the agency informally until he became ill  a few months ago.
        Dr. Tordella is survived by his wife, Barbara; a daughter, Anne Fields of Wilmington, Del.; two sons, John of Kensington and David of Alexandria, Va.; eight grandchildren, and one great grandchild.
      