
        Dr. Karl H. Beyer Jr., a researcher in pharmacology who led teams that created new classes of drugs, died on Dec. 2 at Suburban General Hospital in Norristown, Pa. He was 82 and lived in Gwynedd Valley, Pa.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Dr. Annette Beyer-Mears, an associate professor of physiology and ophthalmology at the University of Medicine and Dentistry in New Jersey.
        Two of his drugs illustrate the work that marked his 31 years at Merck & Company, where he was vice president for research, and his 23 years based at Hershey Medical Center, said his colleague, Dr. Elliot Vesell, the Bernard Brodie Professor of Pharmacology and chairman of that department at Hershey, which is part of Pennsylvania State University.
        One drug, probenecid (marketed by Merck as Benemid), gave relief to those in pain from gout, a disease with no effective therapy until Dr. Beyer found a way to inhibit reabsorption of uric acid from the kidneys. His drug helped hundreds of thousands of people to live with the symptoms.
        The other drug, a thiazide diuretic  marketed as Diuril, helped millions of people, and was the first in a new class of drugs that is well established in the treatment of cardiovascular and other diseases. Previous treatments for hypertension were inefficient and had serious side effects -- in effect, poisoning the kidneys. Dr. Beyer's discovery reduced blood pressure more safely and eliminated the hypertension.
        In 1942, Dr. Beyer joined a small laboratory called Sharpe and Dohme in West Point, Pa., as assistant director of research. After the laboratory merged with Merck in 1953, he became president of the Merck Institute of Therapeutic Research and went on to become senior vice president at Merck, by then the No. 3 pharmaceutical company.
        Dr. Beyer rejected the earlier model of discovery of drugs by serendipity -- coming upon, say, a plant from which a drug could be extracted -- and instead preached discovery by a laboratory team. Dr. Beyer wrote about his philosophy in a book, ''The Discovery, Development and Delivery of New Drugs'' (S. P. Medical and Scientific Books, 1978).
        He received the Lasker Award, the Sollmann Award and the Gairdner Award, among others. He was president of the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics and president and chairman of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. He held more than 20 patents.
        Dr. Beyer retired from Merck in 1973 to begin a second career, in  academic research. While based at Hershey, he taught at Vanderbilt University, Temple University, the University of Pennsylvania and the Medical College of Pennsylvania. He was a scholar in residence at the Fogarty International Center at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
        Karl Henry Beyer Jr. was born in Henderson, Ky., and graduated from Western Kentucky State College in 1935. He received an M.A. and doctorates in medicine and physiology from the University of Wisconsin.
        His marriage to Annette Weiss ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter, of Ridgewood, N.J., Dr. Beyer is survived by his wife, Camille; two sisters, Barbara Mellin of Pinellas Park, Fla., and Katherine Smith of Largo, Fla.; another daughter, Katherine Cranson of Sterling, Mass., and five grandsons.
      