
        Frank Aram Oski, a specialist in blood diseases and cancer in children who recently retired after 10 years as head of the Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Baltimore. He was 64.
        The cause was prostate cancer, the center said.
        Dr. Oski was a strong advocate of children's health care. An expert in childhood blood disorders and nutritional deficiencies, he campaigned against commercial promotions of cow's milk as an alternative to mother's milk for babies.
        The Children's Center credited him with redefining its missions in research, patient care and teaching. During a decade as director of the center, from 1985 until last year, he served as senior editor of the textbook ''Principles and Practices of Pediatrics.''
        His book ''The Practical Pediatrician,'' a guide for parents, was published this year. Altogether, he was the author or co-author of 300 academic papers and 20 books.
        Dr. Oski went to Baltimore with an international reputation in hematology and the clinical care of young patients with blood disorders. His research led to insights into iron deficiency and its effects on behavior and learning, into why premature infants develop anemia and into why children with sickle cell anemia suffer strokes. He helped define the folic acid components in an infant's diet and documented the clinical and laboratory manifestations of vitamin E deficiency.
        Frank Oski was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Swarthmore College in 1954 and from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in 1958.
        He trained in pediatrics and hematology at Children's Hospital Medical center in Boston. He joined the faculty in Philadelphia in 1965 and in 1972 became professor and chairman of pediatrics at Upstate Medical Center at the State University of New York in Syracuse.
        In 1985 he was appointed professor of pediatrics and department chairman at Johns Hopkins University and physician in chief at the Johns Hopkins Children's Medical and Surgery Center.
        At his death he was the editor of Contemporary Pediatrics, a journal he founded, and sat on the editorial board of The European Journal of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology.
        Dr. Oski is survived by his wife of 39 years, Barbara Fassett Oski; two daughters, Jessica Oski of Burlington, Vt., and Dr. Jane Oski of Kayenta, American Samoa; a son, Jonathan, of Westbury, Mass.; a brother, Richard, of Philadelphia, and two grandchildren.
      