
        J. H. Hexter, an American historian who conceived an ambitious and continuing project to produce a history of freedom and democracy, died on Dec. 8 at his home in St. Louis. He was 86.
        He retired six years ago as professor of history at Washington University in St. Louis. During his 60-year career he taught at Queens College in New York from 1939 to 1957 and Yale University from 1964 to 1978.
        In 1986, Professor Hexter founded Washington University's Center for the History of Freedom, which studies the evolution of today's concept of freedom. As its first director, he created the framework for a projected 18-volume series called ''The Making of Modern Freedom'' to trace the evolution of democracy from the rise of representative government in England to the present. Professor Hexter edited the first volume, ''Parliament and Liberty from the Reign of Elizabeth to the English Civil War,'' which appeared in 1992. Seven more volumes have been published.
        Irving Kristol, co-editor of the quarterly Public Interest and a friend of 40 years, compared the scholarly spirit of Professor Hexter's project to that of Lord Acton, who never completed a work but whose lectures and essays were compiled after his death.
        ''Lord Acton's 'History of Liberty' is said to be the greatest work never written,'' Mr. Kristol said yesterday. '' 'The Making of Modern Freedom,' conceived and initially edited by Hexter, is an ambitious, imaginative attempt to fulfill the promise of Acton by tracing both the institutions and ideas of modern freedom from their emergence in early 17th- century England. Professor Hexter rejected the economic determinism of  many historians, Mr. Kristol added. ''Hexter saw freedom as a self-conscious struggle for constitutional government, political liberty and the rule of law.''
        Professor Hexter was on the faculty of Washington University from 1957 to 1964 and was chairman of the history department for three years before accepting an appointment at Yale. There he was the Stille Professor of History and director of the Yale Center for Parliamentary History.
        His first scholarly work was ''The Reign of King Pym'' (Harvard University Press, 1941), about John Pym, who led the Parliamentary opposition to Charles I in the 17th century. Other books still in print include ''More's Utopia: The Biography of an Idea,'' ''On Historians: Reappraisals of Some of the Masters of Modern History'' and ''Judeo-Christian Tradition.''
        He was born in Memphis and graduated from the University of Cincinnati in 1931. He earned his master's degree and his doctorate at Harvard University.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth Mullin Hexter; two sons, Christopher, of St. Louis, and Richard, of Shreveport, La.; two daughters, Anne Greene and Eleanor Stevens, both of Silver Spring, Md., and 14 grandchildren.
      