
        Laurens van der Post, the South African-born author, explorer and soldier who became a mentor to Prince Charles and a godfather to his son Prince William, died on Sunday at his home in London. He had turned 90 on Friday.
        Anthropologist, linguist and philosopher, Sir Laurens lived a thoughtful life of adventure and travel that took him from the Kalahari deserts of Africa to the remote corners of Soviet Asia, to commando raids behind enemy lines in World War II, and eventually to three years of brutal captivity at the hands of the Japanese in Java.
        Out of his experiences came 25 works of fiction and nonfiction often praised for their poetic prose, most notably ''The Lost World of the Kalahari,'' a masterly evocation of the life of the Bushmen of Africa published by William Morrow and Company in 1958, and its sequel, and ''The Heart of the Hunter,'' published by Morrow three years later. The books were credited with saving the Bushmen from extinction.
        Out of his experiences, too, came a loathing for apartheid in his native land, a belief in the correctness of the decision to drop the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, a sense of forgiveness toward his captors that led to his refusal to collaborate with war crimes trials in the Far East and a Jungian's appreciation of the collective unconscious that prompted him to write that the only sure way to rid life of villains is ''to rid ourselves first of the villain within.''
        In his later years, Sir Laurens became a mentor to the Prince of Wales and to former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. He was knighted  in 1981. Sir Laurens was influential in the development of the Prince's interest in non-Christian religions and nontraditional life styles.
        Buckingham Palace issued a statement expressing the Prince's sadness at the death of Sir Laurens. ''He had been a dear friend for a very long time,'' the statement said.
        Sir Laurens's latest book, ''The Admiral's Baby,'' recounting the 14 months when he remained behind in Java as a colonel at war's end in an effort to ease the transition to peace among the Indonesians, the Dutch, the Japanese and the British, is to be published by Morrow next month.
        Although he moved to England to put himself at the heart of the British Empire, Sir Laurens retained a deep and abiding love for South Africa, despite abhorrence of the oppression of its black majority.
        He maintained that whites who oppressed and feared darker peoples were reflecting the expression of something inside themselves: the instinctive, emotional, dark unconscious.
        ''We hate the native in ourselves,'' he wrote. In ''Venture to the Interior,'' a 1951 book that mixed biography, adventure, travel and mysticism in recounting an exploration of remote mountainous areas of what is now Malawi, he mused on the subject of reason. He noted that in the previous 150 years, there had been more talk of reason than ever before. But to what end?
        ''Cumulatively and collectively, in the grand total of all our individual lives, we have produced more unreason, bigger and fiercer wars, than any other age in history.''
        His books included ''Jung and the Story of Our Time,'' a biography published in 1976; ''First Catch Your Eland,'' a 1978 memoir that used food as a touchstone in understanding and explaining the diverse cultures of Africa; ''A View of All the Russias,'' a 1964 account of his travels in the Soviet Union, and ''Flamingo Feather,'' a melodramatic 1955 novel about murder, conspiracy, intrigue and Communist-inspired revolution in Africa.
        His 1971 novel, ''The Seed and the Sower,'' about a test of wills between a Japanese prison camp commandant and an English officer, was filmed in 1983 as ''Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence.''
        Laurens van der Post was born on Dec. 13, 1906, on a farm on the Orange River in what was then the Union of South Africa. He was the 13th of 15 children. His father was C. W. H. van der Post, whom he once described as a statesman, barrister, writer and the equivalent of Secretary of State for the last Boer Republic of the Orange Free State. His mother, the former M. M. Lubbe, was descended from Dutch settlers who arrived in Africa in 1686. His father died while Laurens was very young.
        As a boy he went to Grey College, a preparatory school. But, he said: ''I was bored with this business of school. I'd always wanted to be a writer, and the only way I could see to start it was as a newspaper reporter in the good old-fashioned way, covering the law courts, indeed, as Charles Dickens had done.''
        At 17, he was at work for The Durban Daily News. In 1928, at 21, he began his first novel, ''In a Province,'' an attack on South African racism, which was finally published in 1934 by Virginia and Leonard Woolf's Hogarth Press.
        He is survived by his wife, Ingaret Giffard of London; a daughter, Lucia Crichton-Miller of London, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce; and six grandchildren.
      