
        Arthur D. Shores, a prominent figure in the civil rights movement in Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Monday at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 92.
        Mr. Shores was one of the first blacks to practice law in Alabama, and for a decade he was the only practicing black lawyer in the state, his family said. He maintained his practice for more than 50 years, well into the 1980's, before retiring. In his later years, his work mainly involved probate law.
        As the civil rights movement progressed, he was repeatedly involved in desegregation cases. In that turbulent period, his house was bombed twice during Birmingham's racial troubles in 1963, but he was unharmed. And he went on to be elected to the Birmingham City Council in 1969, becoming the first black to secure such a victory.
        In the legal arena, he worked for Autherine Lucy in her brief effort in the 1950's to desegregate the University of Alabama. And, among other cases, he helped with the lawsuit that secured the admission of Vivian Malone and James Hood to desegregate that university in 1963.
        In those embattled years, Mr. Shores was known for maintaining a calm and low-key manner, despite the physical danger he faced. But he took to standing guard with a shotgun on his own front porch. His house was a low, red-brick structure in a middle-class, black neighborhood that was known for a time as Dynamite Hill because by 1963 there had been almost a bombing a year there for the last decade.
        It was presumed after the first bombing, on Aug. 15, 1963, that his home was the target of bombers because he had built it in an area previously occupied only by whites.
        That first bombing did heavy damage to his home. Then, on Sept. 4, 1963, another bomb rocked the house, shattering all the glass in its front. No one was injured in the first explosion, but his wife was hurt in the second one.
        The September bombing followed the peaceful registration of two black children in a previously all-white Birmingham elementary school. The bomb's explosion was followed by rioting in which 1 black was killed and at least 18 were injured. About 8 of the injured were police officers.
        Two other efforts were made to bomb the Shores house, but the bombs malfunctioned. Mr. Shores reported that in one of those efforts, 48 sticks of dynamite had been left alongside his home.
        It was after being appointed to the City Council earlier in 1969 -- to replace a white who had died -- that Mr. Shores was elected to the Council, placing second in a field of 20 candidates vying for five open seats.
        After the balloting, he declared that he viewed his election as a sign that, as he put it, ''Birmingham has really embarked on a course designed to bring about a fulfillment of the aspirations of all her citizens.''
        He had been opposed by a conservative block that had candidates of its own, and that had tried to gather support by criticizing city administrators for constructing integrated swimming pools in white sections of the city.
        Mr. Shores remained on the Council until 1978.
        He initially gained notice as a member of the legal staff of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. In that post he was often at odds with Birmingham city administrators.
        He was born in Birmingham, graduated from high schol there, received a bachelor's degree from Talladega College east of Birmingham in 1927, and went on to receive a law degree from LaSalle Extension University in 1935.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Theodora Warren; two daughters, Helen Shores Lees, who is a lawyer, and Barbara Shores Martin, both of Birmingham; five grandchildren; two great-grandchildren, and two sisters, Henrietta Oliver and Helen Ray Norman, both of Birmingham.
      