
        Carl Woodrow Shaver, an innovator in bringing corporate management practices and fund-raising techniques to cultural institutions, died on Dec. 6 at his home in New York. He was 82.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Carol A. Derfner, the senior vice president of C. W. Shaver & Company, the consulting firm founded by Mr. Shaver in 1965. Mr. Shaver, the chairman and chief executive of the company, worked there until his death.
        On his client list were performing arts organizations, museums and educational institutions. Among them were the New York City Opera, Carnegie Hall, New York City Ballet,  Boston Symphony Orchestra, Brooklyn Academy of Music, Joffrey Ballet, and Philadelphia Orchestra; the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Jewish Museum, Philadelphia Museum of Art and Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco; and the Mannes School of Music, Cornell University and Swarthmore College.
        Mr. Shaver and his firm were engaged by Carnegie Hall in the early 1980's to help plan its restoration. They conducted a feasibility study and helped to plan a campaign to raise $60 million, $50 million of which was devoted to the restoration. Norton Belknap, a trustee and former managing director of Carnegie Hall, said the campaign was 20 times larger than any prior effort.
        Ms. Derfner said Mr. Shaver was instrumental in developing some fund-raising techniques, like challenge grants and matching funds,  that are commonplace today.
        Mr. Shaver advised cultural organizations to identify long-term financial needs and plan fund-raising campaigns; to use influential board members in leading fund-raising efforts, and to mimic corporations in using management teams and marketing plans.
        In 1976 and 1977, he was interim president of Queens College in Charlotte, N.C. He graduated from Cleveland State University in 1945, after serving in the Army during World War II.
        Mr. Shaver is survived by a daughter, Linda K. S. Moore of Washington; a son, David Carl Shaver of Carlisle, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      