
        John Williamson, an electrifying guard who teamed with Julius Erving to help the New York Nets win two American Basketball Association championships in the 1970's -- while enhancing the image of the struggling league in the process -- died Saturday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 44.
        The cause was kidney problems, a Nets spokesman said. Williamson, of New Haven, had undergone dialysis for the past eight years.
        Williamson, who earned the nickname Super John for his ability to light up scoreboards with a jump shot he wasn't afraid to launch from anywhere or at any time, was a 21-year-old high-spirited rookie from New Mexico State when he joined the Nets for the 1973-74 season.
        Surrounded by talented players like Erving, Brian Taylor and Larry Kenon, Williamson, a muscular, 6-foot-2-inch player, started out on the Nets' bench. But after New York lost nine straight games early that season, Coach Kevin Loughery decided to start Williamson. He was a hard-nosed defensive player, but his forte was offense, something the Nets needed despite the presence of Erving.
        ''The move paid off,'' said Rod Thorn, one of Loughery's assistant coaches that season and now a senior vice president of the National Basketball Association. ''With John in the lineup, we just took off from there and went on to win the championship. John was the missing link to all our success that season.''
        Williamson joined the Nets at a time when the A.B.A., which came into existence in 1967, was competing with the long-established N.B.A. for marquee players and advertising dollars, with their off-court battles resulting in lawsuits.
        In 1976, the A.B.A.'s last season, Williamson and Erving teamed to give the Nets another championship, but their contributions had far greater ramifications.
        The Nets, considered one of the A.B.A.'s glamour franchises, were one of four A.B.A. teams -- along with Indiana, Denver and San Antonio -- absorbed in a merger with the N.B.A. Suddenly, Walt Frazier and Earl Monroe of the New York Knicks weren't the only backcourt stars in town.
        ''At the time, I think the N.B.A. felt that the Nets would be an extremely important franchise to add to their league,'' said Loughery, who remained the Nets' coach after the merger. ''We had some real good players, none better than Dr. J. When Doc left before the start of the merger season to join the Philadelphia 76ers, John Williamson became our top star.''
        Midway through the 1976-77 season, the Nets traded Williamson to the Indiana Pacers, but the favorite of Nets fans was traded back during the 1977-78 season, when the team moved from Long Island to New Jersey.
        During an eight-year career, which ended with the Washington Bullets, Williamson averaged 20.1 points a game in the N.B.A. and 14.1 points in the A.B.A. His best season was 1977-78, when he averaged 23.7 points a game in split duties with Indiana and New Jersey, one of three seasons in which he would crack the 20-point plateau.
        He held several Nets records, most notably 22 free throws in a game, against San Diego in 1978. Williamson's other team records included his 40 field-goal attempts against Buffalo in a 1978 regular-season game and 34 shots against Philadelphia in the 1979 playoffs. Williamson scored the second-most points in a Nets playoff game, 38 against Philadelphia in 1979. The late Drazen Petrovic broke Williamson's mark with 40 points against Cleveland in 1992.
        ''Holy cow, you couldn't stop him,'' said Lou Carnesecca, who coached the Nets from 1970-73 and who left to take over the St. John's program the year before Williamson arrived. ''He was so strong and had such great tenacity. He was small, but he could score on practically anyone.''
        Williamson, whose No. 23 is one of five uniform numbers the Nets have retired, had his biggest scoring spree in a two-game span in 1978, putting up 40 points in Atlanta on April 2 and then 50 against Indiana on April 4. ''In today's game, a lot of guys really don't want to take the big shot,'' Loughery said. ''John was never afraid to shoot. In fact, he was so confident in his ability that he often felt he should take the big shot before Dr. J. did.''
        Williamson is survived by his wife, Bertha; one son, Maurice, 27; three daughters, Kali, 21, Raushanah, 19, and Shareebah, 15, and two grandchildren.
      