
        Joseph Ades, a self-made businessman and investor who was a leading supporter of Sephardic Jewish life and philanthropy in Israel and the New York City area, died on Sunday at his home in Kings Point, L.I. He was 95.
        As he made his fortune, Mr. Ades (pronounced ADD-ess) began relationships with Yeshiva University and Boys Town Jerusalem that are now three generations old. Sizable components of both institutions grew from his contributions and now bear his name and that of his wife of nearly 60 years, Rachel Khedari Ades, who died in 1985.
        Mr. Ades was born in Aleppo, Syria, and raised in poverty on the Lower East Side, with a rudimentary formal education. He initially ventured into business as a manufacturer of nightgowns, then branched out as a partner and principal in a real estate management concern. He later prospered as a developer of shopping centers and malls, and as manager of his own investment portfolio.
        His was one of the first families of Syrian Jews to move from the Lower East Side to Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn, where those families grew into the largest community of Syrian Sephardim in the world. Along the way, he became a mainstay of that community and a preserver of its heritage. He contributed to many causes, with an emphasis on education and spiritual values.
        Yeshiva counted Mr. Ades among the founders of its Einstein College of Medicine and Syms School of Business. He was a key contributor to its affiliates, Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, Cardozo School of Law and Yeshiva University High School for Girls.
        Mr. Ades made his first donation to Boys Town Jerusalem in 1970 and remained strongly involved with it and its American support organization in New York City. He endowed its Academic High School and Ades Residence Hall in Jerusalem.
        He helped found and maintain New Porat Yoseph Yeshiva in Old Jerusalem, a prominent Sephardic academy. Among other institutions he backed from the start was Torah Vehoraah, an educational and spiritual center in Tel Aviv.
        Mr. Ades is survived by two sons, Albert J., of Manhattan and Robert J., of Kings Point; a daughter, Renee Levy, also of Kings Point, 13 grandchildren, 21 great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchild.
      