
        Jean-Pierre Guerlain, who oversaw the international expansion of the perfume company bearing his name, died in Paris last Thursday. He was 91.
        Mr. Guerlain was not a creator of any of the scents that have made Guerlain famous. Shalimar, L'Heure Bleue and Mitsouko were the work of his uncle, Jacques Guerlain; more recent perfumes, including Samsara, were created by his nephew Jean-Paul Guerlain.
        But Mr. Guerlain was long a backbone of the company's business strategy, first as an associate director and later as its chief executive. He pushed Guerlain toward developing its products outside France while at the same time insisting that the exclusive image of its scents be maintained through a restrictive distribution policy.
        In Paris, even today, Guerlain perfumes are available only in Guerlain stores. Outside France, the company has tried to maintain what it calls a ''very selective sales network.''
        Born on Feb. 2, 1905, Mr. Guerlain graduated from the Chaptal high school in Paris and earned a doctorate in science at the University of Paris. He joined Guerlain in 1933 as an associate director, a position he held until 1970, when he became chief executive.
        At once commanding and affectionate, Mr. Guerlain was widely known within the company as ''Uncle Jean-Pierre.'' He embodied a sense of family tradition within a company founded in 1828.
        But toward the end of his life, as president of the supervisory board of Guerlain, a position he took in 1981, and as its main shareholder, he presided over the sale of the company to the luxury-goods giant LVMH Moet Hennessy-Louis Vuitton, which also owns Givenchy and Dior.
        Mr. Guerlain, who had no children,  argued that the family company's future in an increasingly competitive industry would be best assured within a huge group, whose sales last year amounted to $5.9 billion.
        A majority 51 percent stake in Guerlain was sold to LVMH in 1994, and the rest of the shares were sold earlier this year. Bernard Arnault, the chairman of LVMH, has been tirelessly assembling a luxury-goods empire over the past several years, with a strategy of giving old and hallowed names such as Guerlain new marketing muscle and international reach.
        Mr. Guerlain is survived by his wife, Christiane.
      