
        Gerry Mulligan, a baritone saxophonist and a major figure in jazz, died on Saturday morning at his home in Darien, Conn. from complications after surgery for a knee infection, said his wife, Franca. He was 68.
        He had been suffering from liver cancer, said George Wein, the director of the JVC Jazz Festival and a close personal friend.
        Mr. Mulligan was one of the great improvisers of postwar jazz. In his hands  the baritone saxophone, usually a burly, stiff creature, became supple and elegant. Mr. Mulligan was after grace and gentleness when he improvised, and his solos, whether at a ballad tempo or at faster speed, always have warmth to them  that makes them seem personal.
        Wit played a large part in his improvisations, and in many of his solos, he added riffs that sparkled, an odd quote or a sly melodic fillip that took his creations out of the realm of the ordinary. His solos had flow, logic, tempo, and sense of progression.
        Though Mr. Mulligan was a special improviser, much of his importance came from his conception as a band leader and arranger; for much of his early career, he was hailed more as a songwriter than as an soloist.
        In 1952 with the trumpeter Chet Baker, Mr. Mulligan settled on the instrumentation for a group that included simply the two of them, a bassist and  a drummer, leaving out the pianist. That group, which came together in Los Angeles, helped solidify California as the home territory for what was called the Cool School of jazz. And it identified Mr. Mulligan, who ironically spent most of his time on the East Coast, as a leader of the movement.
        Over the years, Mr. Mulligan developed a writing personality that can be traced to one of his most important early successes, the music he produced for the Miles Davis "Birth of the Cool" nonet.
        Mr. Mulligan's subsequent composing, whether for small groups or large, studiously avoided the cliches of big band orchestration, opting instead for a well-centered, calmly rational approach. And he made sure that many of his arrangements were full of moving lines, not only referring to an earlier style of polyphonic jazz, but also making his arrangements sound almost improvised. The pianist John Lewis said Mr. Mulligan's influence had "become so general, they won't know to give him credit in the next generation."
        Gerald Joseph Mulligan was born in New York on April 6, 1927, and grew up in  Philadelphia. He began his professional career at age 17, working with a series  of East Coast bands, including the groups of Johnny Warrington, George Paxton and Tommy Tucker, for whom he was playing alto saxophone and arranging.
        In 1946, Mr. Mulligan returned to New York City and began a series of higher-profile jobs, including arranging for Gene Krupa, for whom he contributed "Disc Jockey Jump," an early Mulligan classic, and Claude Thornhill, a progressive big-band leader.
        It was with Thornhill's band that Mr. Mulligan met the arranger Gil Evans, who introduced him to an especially fertile scene of young, creative musicians who were about to change the sound of jazz, including Miles Davis, the composer  George Russell and Mr. Lewis, who went on to found the Modern Jazz Quartet.
        They all spent time in Mr. Evans's tiny basement apartment, behind a laundry  on West 55th Street in Manhattan. Out of that compositional hothouse came Davis's "Birth of the Cool" band, founded in 1947, and a subsequent recording of the same name. By adding French horns and tubas, the band changed the orchestral possibilities of the music, leading ultimately to the famous collaborations of Mr. Davis and Mr. Evans a few years later.
        Mr. Mulligan contributed three original compositions, along with two more arrangements to the album. His work made up nearly half of the album, and in later years Mr. Mulligan made it clear that he felt his work on the project had  been diminished by Davis.
        In 1950, Mr. Mulligan hitchhiked to Los Angeles and gained immediate work with the bandleader Stan Kenton, who didn't particularly like Mr. Mulligan's style. Mr. Kenton assigned him to write simple dance tunes. Mr. Mulligan soon left; after working weekend sessions at the Lighthouse, a famous club in nearby  Hermosa Beach, he secured a regular Monday-night job at the Haig, one of Los Angeles's most important clubs.
        It was there that he met the trumpeter Chet Baker, who joined Mr. Mulligan's  first "pianoless quartet" in 1952. Stories conflict about the reasons for the group; one has it that the piano at the Haig's piano wasn't particularly good; another has it that the club was without a piano entirely.
        But in June of 1952, Mr. Mulligan went into the recording studio; the pianist Jimmy Rowles, meant to play, never showed up. Mr. Mulligan, who recorded some music with just bass and drums, apparently liked the sound. In August of that year, the group, without piano but with Mr. Baker, recorded for the small World  Pacific Records label, releasing a single that included "Bernie's Tune," by Bernie Miller.
        The group quickly became a large draw, and the sales of subsequent recordings established the label; Mr. Baker stayed with the group until 1954, when the two went their separate ways because of money differences. But that pianoless conception, later adopted by the avant-garde through the work of Ornette Coleman, another Los Angeles-based musician, became an important part of jazz.
        In 1953, Mr. Mulligan was incarcerated for drug use; when he was released in  1954, he returned to New York City, where he spent a good portion of his career.
        During the 1950's, he recorded a string of exceptional albums including "The  Gerry Mulligan Songbook," recently rereleased on the Pacific Jazz label and featuring his compositions for different saxophonists, including Al Cohn, Zoot Sims and Lee Konitz. His groups ranged from quartets to tentettes to small big bands, many using the pianoless configuration. He replaced Mr. Baker with a series of fine soloists, including the trumpeter Art Farmer, the valve trombonist Bob Brookmeyer and the trumpeter Jon Eardley.
        He was at the peak of his powers and also of his celebrity; while maintaining a good critical reputation and becoming one of jazz's biggest-selling artists, he was also associated with several film stars, including the actresses Judy Holliday and Sandy Dennis, to whom he was married. And he presented himself as a serious artist: though he often said that his music was about fun, he performed  in a suit and tie, and his performances were clearly not about jazz as entertainment.
        In 1953, he was featured in Time magazine. In 1954, he performed at the first Newport Jazz Festival; he recorded with Thelonious Monk and Stan Getz in 1957, and in 1959 with Ben Webster. Mr. Mulligan recorded with Paul Desmond and Dave Brubeck, and he and his bands regularly toured Europe.
        In 1959 he began an association with Columbia Records for whom he recorded a  handful of albums, and for much of the 1960's Mr. Mulligan continued as one of the jazz's top draws. But between the mid-1960's and 1971, Mr. Mulligan stopped  recording. In 1971 he made "The Age of Steam," an album that included elements of rock. Three years later he collaborated with the Argentine composer Astor Piazzolla.
        In the 1980's, it became clear again that Mr. Mulligan was one of the distinct, important voices of jazz, and his recording career flourished; Mr. Mulligan was almost exclusively a concert star, and one of the last great attractions in jazz. He made albums for Concord Records and recorded symphonic music. He recorded quartet music, with a pianist, and in 1992 revision of the "Birth of the Cool" sessions. And he recorded several albums for the Telarc label.
        He and the trumpeter Wynton Marsalis struck up a musical friendship during the last years of his life, and Mr. Mulligan was commissioned to write music for a concert for Jazz at Lincoln Center; he and Mr. Marsalis played a set of blistering improvisations for the JVC Jazz Festival in New York City in 1993, and a concert in Chicago that same year.
        Besides his wife, Franca, Mr. Mulligan is survived by a son, Reed, of Florida.
      