
        Marcello Mastroianni, the Italian actor whose diffident but romantic charm made him one of the movies' best-loved Latin lovers and whose keen dramatic sense made him an international star in such films as ''La Dolce Vita'' and ''8 1/2,'' died today at his home in Paris. He was 72 and also had a home in Rome.
        Italian news agencies reported today that he had suffered from cancer of the pancreas. No cause of death was officially given.
        Enzo Biagi, an Italian journalist and friend who said he last saw Mr. Mastroianni two months ago walking with a cane, added that the actor had not wanted people to know he was ill because it might prevent him from  working. He continued to act until two months ago, touring Italy in a production of ''The Last Moons,'' a play about heartbreak and old age.
        At the height of his career, which embraced over 120 films, Mr. Mastroianni was the exemplar of modern man facing the existential void. In Fellini's ''Dolce Vita'' and ''8 1/2'' and in Michelangelo Antonioni's bleak ''La Notte,'' he portrayed individuals searching for the keys to their lives. He was equally skilled at comedy, sometimes verging on slapstick, in films like ''Divorce, Italian Style.''
        Writing about the teamwork between Mr. Mastroianni and a frequent co-star, Sophia Loren, in Ettore Scola's 1977 film ''A Special Day,'' in which Mr. Mastroianni was cast as a suicidal homosexual facing arrest by Fascist officials, the New York Times film critic Vincent Canby praised their style and self-assurance. He wrote: ''One of the qualities that both Miss Loren and Mr. Mastroianni have as performers -- and something that, perhaps, all great performers share -- is a way of presenting the surface characteristics of a role (the gestures, expressions, language) while also somehow making a comment on those characteristics.''
        Of Mr. Mastroianni's work in Nikita Mikhalkov's ''Dark Eyes,'' which opened the 25th New York Film Festival at Lincoln Center in 1987, Mr. Canby wrote: ''The physical transformation of the actor in the course of the movie is something miraculous, accomplished without visible makeup, through the resources of a remarkable performer and, of course, through the opportunities of a richly written role.''
        Surveying the actor's career, Mr. Canby added, ''Mr. Mastroianni and the festival have had their ups and downs -- and they're still here, Mr. Mastroianni triumphantly so.''
        In Italy, where he was respected  as one of the last giants of the golden age of Italian film but also affectionately embraced for his lighthearted, unassuming ways, Mr. Mastroianni was mourned today at all levels of society -- from Government officials  to the waiters at the restaurant in the Trastevere quarter where Mr. Mastroianni had an apartment.
        The city of Rome dimmed the lights and shut off the water tonight at the Trevi Fountain in honor of the  scene in ''La Dolce Vita'' where Mr. Mastroianni, as a young intellectual who wanders into decadent cafe society, joins the Swedish actress Anita Ekberg for a midnight splash in the fountain basin. A crowd listened silently while a musician played themes from ''8 1/2'' on a wooden flute.
        Mr. Mastroianni played the leading man to a succession of beautiful women. But his most famous partnership was with Miss Loren, who alternately married, divorced, seduced and pined after him in a total of 12 movies. Of these, the most famous were ''Marriage, Italian Style,'' ''The Priest's Wife'' and ''Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow.'' Their last collaboration was in Robert Altman's 1994 movie on the fashion industry, ''Pret-a-Porter'' (''Ready-to-Wear'').
        Although regarded here as the quintessential Italian actor, Mr. Mastroianni -- who also spoke French and English -- made many movies outside his native country with French, American and Russian directors. He won the best actor award at the Cannes Film Festival in 1987 for ''Dark Eyes,'' in which he played a down-at-the-heels architect whose once-glamorous life is seen in flashback. He never won an Oscar, although he was nominated several times, first for his role in Pietro Germi's ''Divorce, Italian Style'' in 1962.
        Mr. Mastroianni's relationship with Fellini, who once called the actor his alter ego, was long and strongly personal. From ''La Dolce Vita,'' they moved on to ''8 1/2'' and, in the 1980's, ''City of Women,'' ''Ginger and Fred'' and ''The Interview.''
        In an interview before his death in 1993, Fellini remarked that Mr. Mastroianni's talent was not as unstudied, as natural, as he sometimes made it seem. ''The legend that Marcello is indifferent or lazy is nonsense,'' Fellini said in an interview for an article in The New York Times Magazine. ''He spends hours discussing his role until he thoroughly understands it, extracting the most extraordinary nuances. When he has it inside him, and he trusts his director, we can get what we're really after: a look at the inner reality of life.''
        Mario Monicelli, who directed Mr. Mastroianni in the role of a bumbling burglar in the 1958 film ''Big Deal on Madonna Street,'' described him as ''devoid of celebrity affectations'' and ''graciously ironic.''
        Italians looked somewhat cynically on his reputation as the suave Latin lover, a Hollywood-style image many felt did not correspond to his self-deprecating charm. ''On one hand there was the myth of the Latin lover, which accompanied him from his youth and his great international success,'' said a commentary carried today by the Italian news agency ANSA. ''On the other, there was the man Mastroianni, who presented himself as lazy, accommodating, faithful in his way and a little bit mammone,'' the Italian word for a mama's boy.
        Mr. Mastroianni generally avoided  interviews but in the few that he gave, he always seemed to question how it was that he become one of the great romantic heroes of modern cinema.
        ''My legs are skinny, my face has no power or resolve,'' he told the journalist and author Curtis Bill Pepper in 1987, comparing himself with other leading men like Clark Gable, Gary Cooper, Humphrey Bogart or Paul Newman. ''They knew where they were going -- or at least, we presumed they knew. I haven't any idea. If they were heroes, then I'm a nonhero.''
        Born on Sept. 28, 1924, at Fontana Liri, a small town 50 miles south of Rome, he grew up in a poor family, the son of a cabinetmaker who used to repair the holes in Marcello's shoes with pieces of aluminum. His father, who went blind from diabetes, never saw his son on the screen, although he did live to hear his voice in his first two films.
        When he was still a boy, the family moved to Turin and then to Rome. He earned a degree as a surveyor in the hope of becoming an architect. But World War II intervened, and he was assigned to draw maps for Mussolini's retreating armies. Later he was drafted into digging ditches in the Alps. From there, he escaped to Venice.
        When the war was over, he returned to Rome, got a job as a bookkeeper for a film company and joined a theatrical company. There he met both Fellini and the actress Giulietta Masina, Mr. Fellini's wife, with whom he made his stage debut. His performance drew faint praise for its ''enthusiastic inexperience.''
        Mr. Mastroianni married a fellow student, Flora Carabella, in 1948. They had a daughter, Barbara, in 1950. The marriage ended after their formal separation in 1970.
        He had a long romance with the French actress Catherine Deneuve, with whom he had a daughter, Chiara, born in 1972. They separated a few years later but remained friends, and Ms. Deneuve and their daughter were at his bedside yesterday.
        A funeral service is scheduled on Friday at St.-Sulpice Church on Paris's Left Bank, after which Mr. Mastroianni's body is to be flown to Rome. There it is to lie in state in a hall on the Capitoline Hill, seat of the city government. Another memorial service is scheduled for Sunday in central Rome.
        Even in his last year, when Mr. Mastroianni was already worried about death -- although not enough to stop smoking -- he seemed to delight in a livelihood that allowed him to stay young. ''This is a particularly fortunate profession; I am in perpetual infancy,'' he told a reporter for The Washington Post at a bar in Naples last summer, as he was preparing for the opening of ''The Last Moons.'' ''It is like playing cops and robbers forever.''
      