
        The Rev. Dr. David Munroe Cory died on Wednesday, having spent many of his 93 years embracing socialism, preaching to American Indians in their own tongue and generally dashing any notion that he was a blue-blooded Presbyterian.
        Dr. Cory, who had recently suffered a stroke, died of pneumonia at the Norwegian Christian Home in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, said his son Daniel.
        Dr. Cory was the oldest active Presbyterian pastor in the United States and one of the oldest pastors of any denomination when he retired in 1990 from the Homecrest Presbyterian Church at Avenue T and East 15th Street in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, after four decades of service. While serving Homecrest, he was also pastor of the Beverly Presbyterian Church at Beverly Road and East Eighth Street in Flatbush. But it may have been his 29 years as pastor of the Cuyler Presbyterian Church at 360 Pacific Street in Boerum Hill that really defined his ministry, and his life.
        In the 1930's, as Dr. Cory recalled later, Mohawk Indians ''commuted'' the 400 miles from their reservation near Montreal to serve as ironworkers during construction of the Triborough Bridge. Many lived in Brooklyn during the week to be close to the ironworkers' union headquarters, and some gravitated to Cuyler Presbyterian Church on Sundays.
        Dr. Cory learned to speak their Mohawk-Oneida dialect and helped to prepare an Indian hymn book, gestures that earned the friendship of many Mohawks. His ease with his Indian parishioners was perhaps natural; his father, David Cory, was a well-known writer of children's books on Sioux Indian life.
        In a sense, Dr. Cory was a throwback to the Social Gospel movement that tried to adapt Christianity to industrial and big-city life and that preached social reform as fervently as personal salvation.
        As a young man, he was beaten while accompanying workers who were passing out union literature,  permanently impairing the sight in his left eye. A sharp-tongued Socialist candidate for the State Assembly in 1931, Dr. Cory was less than prophetic in his campaign speeches. ''The social salvation of America depends upon centralization of industry,'' he declared.
        Preaching in 1933, the year Hitler came to power, he made remarks that would stand up better in historical hindsight. The shortsightedness of the victorious Allied powers of World War I had contributed to the rise of the Nazis, he asserted, and to ''the astounding success of a second-rate man whose ideas are those of the Dark Ages.''
        Dr. Cory was born in Manhattan. He graduated from Columbia University in 1923 and from the New College of Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1926. He received a master's degree from Columbia and a doctorate in theology from Union Theological Seminary in 1931.
        For many years, Dr. Cory was president of the Iceberg Athletic Club, whose members delight in midwinter dips in the Atlantic Ocean. ''You can't catch a cold on the beach in weather like this,'' he said in a January 1976 interview over the roar of the bone-chilling surf. ''It's too cold for the germs.''
        He also painted landscapes in oils and read widely about history. Tracking his lineage, he discovered that an ancestor had come to America around 1640, his son Daniel said.
        Dr. Cory's first marriage, to the former Mina Haug, ended in divorce. In addition to his son Daniel, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, he is survived by his wife of 40 years, Elsie; two other sons, David, of Sag Harbor, L.I., and John, of Shrewsbury, Mass.; a daughter, Mina Kahofer of Maspeth, Queens; a stepbrother, George Clarke of Hackensack, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
        Upon his retirement in 1990, Dr. Cory reminisced about ministering to the poor in Edinburgh's slums while studying at the New College. The experience helped to shape his politics, permanently. ''I was a Socialist and am one still,'' he said.
        If he had no faith in the capitalism of the here and now, he had absolute faith in the hereafter. ''I believe in life after death,'' he said at his retirement. ''There are people I know I will see again.''
      