
        Yuli B. Khariton, a physicist who oversaw the building of the first Soviet atomic bomb, died yesterday morning at Sarov in central Russia 250 miles east of Moscow. He was 92 and had lived at Sarov, also known as Arzamas-16, for many years.
        Arzamas-16, on the isolated site of a former monastery, is where the super-secret Soviet nuclear research center was set up after World War II.
        His death was reported by the Itar-Tass news agency, which did not give further details, but said he was apparently the last to die of the physicists who developed the first Soviet atomic bombs.
        Dr. Khariton, who received a Ph.D. in physics from Cambridge University in the late 1920's, ''was a very significant figure in the nuclear age and one who remained shrouded in secrecy until the last few years,'' said David Holloway, a professor of political science and history at Stanford, who came to know him and wrote about him in his book ''Stalin and the Bomb'' (Yale, 1994).
        Dr. Khariton's work was long kept secret. But he attracted attention with a 1993 interview in which -- as in an earlier address in Moscow and an earlier article in Izvestia -- he gave details about his work.
        He said that the first Soviet nuclear bomb, whose detonation in August 1949 formally initiated the cold-war arms race, had been a copy of the first American atomic bomb. Dr. Khariton, who had overseen the building of that Soviet bomb, said that it had been constructed from plans supplied by at least one spy.
        After the United States dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima in August 1945, Stalin turned the existing Soviet atomic project into a crash effort to construct an atomic bomb, and Dr. Khariton, an expert on detonation and explosives who had worked on the atomic project, was made the chief of the effort to design and develop the bomb. It was he who chose Sarov, then a mere settlement, to become the site of the Soviet equivalent of Los Alamos.
        An early decision that Dr. Khariton had to make in his new post  concerned the design of the first Soviet atom bomb. Late in 1945, Professor Holloway said, Dr. Khariton ''was shown the intelligence material that Klaus Fuchs had supplied about the design of the first American plutonium bomb, and Khariton said later that this information was detailed enough to give to an engineer to draw up blueprints of a plutonium bomb.'' Dr. Fuchs was a British physicist and Communist spy who worked on the development of the atom bomb in the United States.
        A plutonium bomb uses plutonium as the active material involved. It is the type of bomb that was dropped by the United States on Nagasaki in August 1945.
        ''Khariton was not a man who conformed to the kind of image one might have of a Soviet leader or a Soviet director,'' Professor Holloway recalled. ''he came from a background in the intelligentsia; his manner was quiet,'' ''But he had a slogan that he used to use which I think is revealing. He used to say, 'We have to know 10 times more than we are doing' -- meaning that you had to understand in a profound way the physics of the processes that you were looking at, or attempting to use, in the developing of a bomb. I think he was a very careful and demanding scientific leader who would not be easily satisfied with reports or with results given to him but would always ask questions to see whether they really were sound.''
        Dr. Khariton stayed on for decades in his post as scientific director of what came to be called Arzamas-16. Its name was not mentioned on Soviet maps for decades, although the site grew into a town of 80,000 inhabitants. He is thought to have held the job until about 1992 before retiring.
        Among his subordinates at Arzamas-16 was Andrei D. Sakharov, who worked there for two decades.
        ''The later history of his work is still somewhat shrouded in mystery,'' Professor Holloway said, although Dr. Khariton became a public figure from the late 1980's onward. Professor Holloway suggested that the scientist was ''the key adviser on nuclear-weapons issues right through to the end of his career.''
        Dr. Khariton was born into a reasonably well-to-do family in St. Petersburg. During World War II, he worked chiefly on developing munitions for the Soviet Army. He also came to spend a portion of his time on the Soviet atomic project, which Stalin set up late in 1942, after obtaining intelligence about American and British work toward an atomic bomb.
        Dr. Khariton became a member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences in 1953 and of the Soviet Communist Party in 1956. He was a three-time recipient of the title of Hero of Socialist Labor.
        His wife, the former Marina Zhukovskaya -- who was an actress in the Soviet musical theater -- died in the 1980's, as did their daughter, who was known as Tata. He is survived by a grandson and a granddaughter who live in Moscow.
      