
        Prof. Earl Wendell Count, an anthropologist who celebrated the winter solstice by recounting how the traditions of Christmas evolved over thousands of years, died on Nov. 22 at the Manor Care Nursing Home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 97 and had moved to Walnut Creek after retiring from teaching at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.
        An Episcopal minister, Professor Count piqued the public's imagination at Christmastime in 1948 with ''4,000 Years of Christmas'' (Schulman), a 95-page book that collected strands of myth and folklore of antiquity and wove them into a narrative linking the modern celebration to the ancient festival.
        He traced the story of the festival as it moved westward from Babylon by way of Greece, Rome and Israel, up the Mediterranean Basin and into northern Europe. Intertwined in the story were the appearances of the customs that make Christmas Christmas, like gift giving, candle lights and evergreens and even the debut of St. Nicholas.
        A former department chairman and professor emeritus at Hamilton, Dr. Count belonged to the tradition of Victorian generalists, shunning specialization as he surveyed the evolutionary background of humans.
        His scholarly reach encompassed cultural anthropology, mythology, philosophy of science, comparative anatomy, brain physiology, animal behavior, human fossil history and zoography. In books and scores of articles, he shed new light on various aspects of ethnology and evolutionary biology.
        He was conversant in 10 languages, including Bulgarian and Dano-Norwegian along with the more familiar European tongues.
        He edited ''This Is Race: An Anthology of the International Literature on the Races of Man'' (Schulman, 1960), which presented writings by 58 anthropologists, chosen and translated by him.
        As for Christmas, his story told of wealthy Babylonians exchanging gifts in an empire that flourished 4,000 years ago. There were the peoples of pre-Christian Europe, who believed they could banish evil with decorations of winter's fir greenery and its promise of renewed life. Mistletoe had its place in Druids' worship and old Aryan legends. The Yule log and bonfires to dance around were traditional to many civilizations, he said.
        Customs and traditions from solstice observances eventually made their way into Christian celebrations, but, Dr. Count pointed out, that was after bishops of the new religion had first sought to suppress the peasantry's ancient rites and creeds.
        Dr. Count's work recalled how the church fathers eventually succeeded in ''taking the merriment, the greenery, the lights and the gifts from Saturn and giving them to the Babe of Bethlehem.''
        In the end, he wrote, it was the common folk who, out of deeply felt faith, inspired the celebration known in modern times.
        ''Christmas,'' Dr. Count noted, ''has become great because men and women have given to it their deepest and most enduring selves.''
        Born in Irvington, N.Y., to British-American missionaries, he received his early schooling in Bulgaria and Switzerland. He graduated from Williams College in 1922 and received a divinity degree from Garrett Theological Seminary in 1926. He earned his Ph.D. in anthropology at the University of California at Berkeley in 1935. He was ordained as an Episcopal minister.'' He taught at New York Medical College before joining the Hamilton faculty in 1945. He retired as professor emeritus and chairman of anthropology in 1968.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice Lawson Count, and a sister, Viette Sandbank, of Alexandria, Va.
      