
        Dr. Benjamin Pasamanick, a retired educator and psychiatrist who focused much of his research on the mental and physical development of fetuses, infants and young children, died on Friday at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 81  and had lived in Schenectady since moving from the suburbs of Albany in 1992.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Lidia Laba Pasamanick.
        Over the decades, Dr. Pasamanick was associated with a long roster of universities. At his death, he was research professor emeritus of pediatrics at  Albany Medical College.
        In the 1960's and 1970's, he served as associate state commissioner for research in the Department of Mental Hygiene and subsequently as associate commissioner for research and evaluation in the Division of Mental Retardation and Child Development.
        He was an editor and contributor to numerous scholarly journals. He also was  a familiar figure at professional gatherings, where he presented scientific papers, often with his first wife and collaborator, Dr. Hilda Knobloch, as co-author.
        He was a member of a study group that reported to the American Public Health  Association in 1956 on the state of mental health in big cities. It found that at least 1 in 10 American city dwellers who appeared normal had mental problems.
        He and Dr. Knobloch undertook a long-term research project in the late 1950's that found prenatal factors in mental disorders, arising particularly in the third month of pregnancy. One of his widely discussed studies in 1964 held that  at least 80 percent of serious cases of mental illness could be treated at home  with drug therapy.
        His most recent academic affiliations were as a research professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and New York University Medical Center.
        He was born in Manhattan and graduated from Cornell University and in 1941 from the University of Maryland School of Medicine. He trained at Brooklyn State Hospital, Harlem Hospital and the New York State Psychiatric Institute. He started his professional career in 1944 as an assistant in the Yale Clinic of Child Development.
        His marriage to Dr. Knobloch, now a resident of Savannah, Ga., ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Pasamanick is survived by a brother, Fred, of Manhattan.
      