
        Dr. Peter Neidig, a psychologist who went against the professional grain by championing a long-shunned form of therapy for spouse abuse, died on Thursday at his home in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 53 and had been a research psychologist at  the State University there since 1991.
        His wife, Gwen, said the cause was cancer.
        At a time when it was an article of feminist faith in a highly politicized area of practice that abusive husbands and their wives should never be treated together, Dr. Neidig helped generate research challenging the prevailing wisdom.
        Although treating husbands and wives separately remains dominant, since the publication of Dr. Neidig's 1984 manual, "Spouse Abuse: A Treatment Program for  Couples," written with D. H. Friedman, many therapists have adopted couples therapy.
        Dr. Neidig, a native of Detroit, came to his specialty by accident. After graduating from Stetson University in Florida and receiving his doctorate from the University of Tennessee, he taught at Western Illinois until his love of sailing and warmer climes led him to join a mental health clinic in Beaufort, S.C.
        There, a chance assignment to study stress among Marine drill instructors at  Parris Island led to his interest in spouse abuse.
        Although joint therapy is the standard treatment for general marital discord, when physical abuse is the issue, seeing spouses at the same session is viewed as fostering the politically unacceptable notion that the battered wife had some responsibility for the violence and as dangerous (on the assumption that the intensity of joint therapy would lead to an escalation of the violence).
        Dr. Daniel O'Leary, chairman of the psychology department at Stony Brook, said yesterday that preliminary results of comparative research conducted there  by Dr. Neidig and Dr. Richard Heyman indicated that couples therapy was as safe  as separate therapy and even more effective in reducing marital violence in the  majority of abuse case, those in which the violence has not been severe enough to require arrest or medical treatment.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Neidig is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Adam, of Eugene, Ore., and Mary, of San Francisco; his parents, Florence and Bert, of Orlando, Fla., and two brothers, Michael, of Franklin, N.C., and John, of Portland, Ore.
      