
        Col. F. Don Miller, whose leadership in 1980 twice helped save the United States Olympic Committee from extinction, died last night in Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. He was 75.
        He was diagnosed with lung cancer in March 1994, his son-in-law, Michael Wagner, said.
        From 1969 to 1985, Colonel Miller served as executive director of the U.S.O.C., the national umbrella organization for amateur sports. In January 1980, the Carter Administration severely pressured the U.S.O.C. to boycott that  summer's Olympics in Moscow because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. When  a badly torn U.S.O.C. finally capitulated, its income from corporate and public  contributions dried up, and most of its staff seemed about to be dismissed. A determined Colonel Miller found money to keep the U.S.O.C. alive.
        The Moscow boycott endangered the Olympic movement, and later that year the Los Angeles City Council balked at making financial guarantees for the 1984 Olympics there and was about to give the Games back. Had that happened, Colonel  Miller and Robert J. Kane, the U.S.O.C. president, feared that the U.S.O.C. would collapse.
        He and Kane persuaded the International Olympic Committee to allow the U.S.O.C., rather than the city, to be the guarantor, a revolutionary move. In return, the U.S.O.C. would receive 40 percent of any surplus, the money to be used to help athletes train.
        Most people in the Olympic movement hoped the Games would break even. Instead, they produced a surplus of $215 million. The U.S.O.C.'s 40 percent went to the newly formed United States Olympic Foundation, and Colonel Miller retired as executive director of the U.S.O.C. to become the foundation's first, and only president.
        The foundation invested the money. From the profits, it has turned over $7.5  million annually for athletes' training and $24 million for the expansion of the U.S.O.C. Training Center in Colorado Springs. The U.S.O.C. decided that one of the two new dormitories being built there would bear Miller's name.
        Until Colonel Miller's 16 years as executive director, the U.S.O.C. was little more than a travel agency concerned with assembling teams for Olympic and Pan American Games. It dealt in small numbers. For example, at the 1964 United States Olympic swimming trials at the Astoria Pool in Queens, William E. Simon and Ed Mosler, both millionaire businessmen and U.S.O.C. fund-raisers, sold Olympic pins for $1 each. They sold 24 to 36 a day.
        When Colonel Miller became executive director, the U.S.O.C.'s budget was $4 million over four years. When he retired, the quadrennial budget had reached $88 million. Now it exceeds $400 million.
        Francis Donald Miller was born April 9, 1920, in Racine, Wis. He was a tall,  dignified man, given to plain talk and chain-smoking.
        At the University of Wisconsin, he won the 1943 national collegiate boxing title at 155 pounds. He coached two Olympic boxing teams. He served 26 years in  the Army, and during European combat in World War II he won the Silver Star and  two Purple Hearts. In his later years in the Army, he served as its representative to the U.S.O.C.
        In 1984, during the Los Angeles Olympics, Juan Antonio Samaranch, the I.O.C.  president, presented him with the Olympic Order. He was made a Knight of Malta in 1965, and in 1985 he received the prestigious Teddy Award from the Touchdown  Club of Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, Katherine; two daughters, Pam Wagner of San Antonio and Donna Blume of Alexandria, Va., and five grandchildren.
      