
        Toru Takemitsu, a prolific composer known for his intensely introspective and usually gently etched concert works as well as for the dozens of colorful, evocative scores he wrote for Japanese films, died yesterday at Toranomen Hospital in Tokyo. He was 65 and had homes in Tokyo and in the mountains near Karuizawa, northwest of Tokyo, where he did much of his composing.
        Peter Grilli, Mr. Takemitsu's personal representative in the United States, said the cause was cancer.
        Mr. Takemitsu was the first Japanese composer to become known in the West, partly because he was championed by Igor Stravinsky, who first heard his music during a visit to Japan in 1959, and Aaron Copland, who in 1966 declared him "one of the outstanding composers of our time." Early recordings of his dark-hued "Dorian Horizon" and his exotic "November Steps" (which was commissioned by the New York Philharmonic) helped take his music to a broad public.
        Several of his works -- particularly chamber pieces like "Waves," "Water Ways" and "Toward the Sea" and solo piano works like "For Away" and "Undisturbed Rest" -- have become repertory pieces for musicians committed to new music. The  pianist Peter Serkin, the clarinetist Richard Stoltzman, the conductor Seiji Ozawa and the guitarists Julian Bream, John Williams and David Starobin have all performed and recorded Mr. Takemitsu's music, and in recent seasons his works have been taken up by the violinists Itzhak Perlman and Pinchas Zukerman and the cellist Yo-Yo Ma.
        Mr. Takemitsu saw himself as a bridge between cultures, and from the start of his international career he used his comparative celebrity not only to bring works by his Japanese colleagues to the attention of Western performers, but also to introduce the latest innovations of Western composers to Japan. He organized several groups dedicated to the exchange of artistic ideas. The first, the Experimental Workshop, was founded in 1951 to bring together composers, poets, sculptors and painters. In 1966, with the composer Toshi Ichiyanagi and Mr. Ozawa, he started Orchestral Space, which explored new works by European, American and Japanese composers.
        Mr. Takemitsu was born in Tokyo on Oct. 8, 1930, and apart from intermittent  composition lessons with Yasuji Kiyose during his high school years, he was self-taught. But he always said that the music he heard in his early years -- American jazz from his father's phonograph before World War II; European classical music played on American Armed Forces Radio after it -- influenced him greatly.
        An incident he often cited as the beginning of his love of music took place at the end of the war, when he was 14 and part of a forced-labor crew that was building an army camp. Western music was forbidden, but one evening a young officer played a recording of a French chanson for the workers.
        "I did not know there was such beautiful music in the world," he told an interviewer years later, "and I made the decision that if the war ever ended, I  would become a musician."
        His works of the late 1940's and early 50's were freely atonal and sometimes  used harsh clusters, irregular rhythms and the random elements beloved of experimental composers of the time. Some of those works, including "Undisturbed  Rest" (1952), a piano work composed without bar lines, are still heard in the concert hall. Others, like "Dorian Horizon" (1967), an edgy, atmospheric work for string orchestra, and "Asterism," an ecstatically noisy work for piano and orchestra (1968), became modern classics on recordings.
        But Mr. Takemitsu was also coming to terms with tonality. His Requiem for Strings (1957) is a dark, compelling, rich-textured work in an almost neo-Romantic style. It was the piece that particularly impressed Stravinsky, and it won a prize at the First Tokyo Contemporary Music Festival.
        "As a composer," he said in a New York Times interview in 1988, "I have my own tastes and my own feelings. I think, for instance, that in the 1950's and 1960's, Western music grew too intellectual. Composers like Stockhausen, Berio and Nono made some interesting experiments, and they did many good things. But at the same time, composers began thinking about sound only in terms of its function, and in the process music lost its sensuality."
        By the early 1960's, Mr. Takemitsu was finding this lost sensuality in two places. One was nature, a concern reflected in the titles of dozens of his works, including "Coral Island" (1962), "Green" (1968), "Garden Rain" (1974), "Rain Tree" (1981) and "Rain Coming" (1982). He was particularly fascinated with the combination of natural beauty and cultured formality to be found in Japanese gardens, and sometimes called himself "a gardener of music."
        The other place where Mr. Takemitsu found that he was able to restore sensuality to music was in his collaborations with Japanese film makers, including Hiroshi Teshigahara, Masaki Kobayashi and Akira Kurosawa. All told, he composed 91 film scores, and the best of them are full of experimental touches that heighten the onscreen drama and expand the listener's concept of sound. In  "Woman of the Dunes" (1964), for example, Mr. Takemitsu used a conventional orchestra but altered the sounds electronically to make them seem otherworldly.  That score, as well as "Kwaidan" (1964), "Samurai Rebellion" (1967) and "Dodes'kaden" (1970), use percussion in unusual and particularly colorful ways.
        In some of his film scores, and also in concert works like "November Steps" (1967), Mr. Takemitsu added traditional Japanese instruments to his palette, usually combining them with Western instruments but occasionally using them on their own, as he did with "In an Autumn Garden" (1973-79) a work for a traditional Gagaku court orchestra.
        "I have a feeling of ambivalence about Japanese instruments," he once said. "I love them, but at the same time, I hate them. This is very hard to explain. But during the war in Japan, listening to Western music was forbidden. So when the war was over, we young people were thirsty for Western music. We wanted to learn things. It wasn't until 20 years later that I began studying Japanese music, and I have realized its importance.
        "I am still studying it, and I still have many problems with it. I want to know about the relationship between East and West: about the differences, and the things we have in common. This is something I think all artists should take  the time to think about."
        Mr. Takemitsu's music of the last 20 years was increasingly gentle in spirit, and called to mind the harmonically ambiguous, texturally rich music of the French Impressionists. At the time of his death he was at work on his first opera, a collaboration with the novelist Barry Gifford and the director Daniel Schmid, for the Lyons Opera in France. Mr. Grilli, his spokesman, said that Mr.  Takemistsu had just started sketching out the work, and that it was unlikely he  had written enough to make a posthumous edition possible.
        Mr. Takemitsu, who is survived by his wife, Asaka, and a daughter, Maki, also of Tokyo, won dozens of prizes for his work. In 1994 he won the Grawemeyer Award for "Fantasma/Cantos," a work for clarinet and orchestra. Two weeks ago he was presented with the Glenn Gould Award, for musicians who foster international communication through music.
        Takemitsu On Records
        Most of Toru Takemitsu's major works have been recorded and are available on CD. Here is a selected discography.
        All in Twilight Julian Bream, guitarist (EMI Classics).
        Fantasma/Cantos Richard Stoltzman, clarinetist, BBC Welsh Symphony Orchestra, Tadaaki Otaka, conductor (RCA/BMG)
        In an Autumn Garden Tokyo Gakuso Orchestra, Toru Takemitsu, conductor (Varese Sarabande).
        November Steps Saito Kinen Orchestra, Seiji Ozawa, conductor (Philips).
        Requiem for String Orchestra Winnipeg Symphony Orchestra, Kazuhiro Koizumi, conductor (CBC Enterprises)
        Riverrun for Piano and Orchestra Paul Crossley, pianist; London Sinfonietta, Oliver Knussen, conductor (Virgin)
        To the Edge of Dream John Williams, guitarist, London Sinfonietta, Esa-Pekka Salonen, conductor (Sony Classical).
        Toward the Sea David Starobin, guitarist, Susan Palma, flute (Bridge).
        Mr. Takemitsu's film music was the subject of an installment of the "Music for the Movies" home video series, released recently by Sony Classical on VHS and laser disk.
      