
        Ben Schley, a fly fisherman whose companions included Presidents and anyone else who shared his reverence for nature, died on Saturday at a hospital in Martinsburg, W.Va. He was 80 and lived in Shepherdstown, W.Va., not far from the upper reaches of the Potomac River, which had captured his imagination as a boy  and never let it go.
        In recent days he had suffered from leukemia.
        As the son of a prominent Shep herdstown banker, Mr. Schley could have spent his life in an office dreaming of weekends on the water. Instead, he found a way to live the dream seven days a week, first as a river guide, later as the official in charge of the nation's fish hatcheries and eventually as a full-time fisherman whose office was the river and whose desk was his canoe.
        Along the way he became so famous for the effortless grace of his casts and his unparalleled skill on the water that even Presidents sought his company. He  served as Dwight D. Eisenhower's guide in Vermont and later gave pointers to Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter in West Virginia.
        In a sport in which those who come to it late and rich can sometimes go overboard in the sporting goods department, Mr. Schley was a reproach.
        His rod might be the best Orvis graphite model, but it would be one he had had for years. His reel would be even older, and Mr. Schley never found a reason to replace the aluminum canoe he bought in 1949.
        The few hand-tied flies he would bring along, and perhaps a sandwich, would be slung over his shoulder in a leather pouch that had once been a woman's purse. True, his glasses would be polarized to help him see beneath the surface  of the water, but they would be secured with a length of fishing line, and Mr. Schley would have bought them on sale at the drugstore, not ordered them from Germany.
        And while others in his party on wading trips would be harumphing up the river bank looking for an ideal vantage, Mr. Schley would simply step into the water, casting casually as he went. And by the time his companions got themselves settled, likely as not he would be releasing his third fish.
        Although catch-and-release is a standard feature of fly fishing today, Mr. Schley was regarded as a pioneer of the practice.
        For Mr. Schley, who began his love affair with fishing when his father took him out on the Potomac when he was 4, even war was no excuse to abandon his passion. Six days after D-Day he hit the beach at Normandy carrying a Thompson submachine gun under his arm and a three-piece fly rod in his pack. He later used it with great satisfaction to "liberate" German streams that had been private Nazi fishing preserves.
        Because of his skill and his gentle companionship, Mr. Schley, who once served as a guide to Howard Hughes, was invited to fish around the world. He caught rainbow trout in New Zealand, Atlantic salmon in New Brunswick and trout  in Slovenia.
        He pronounced the large Atlantic salmon the greatest game fish, but when it came to where to fish he insisted that nothing compared to the Potomac.
        But then Mr. Schley, who has been credited with single-handedly blocking a Federal plan to turn West Virginia streams into a commercial fishing zone, took  a proprietary interest in the Potomac.
        As a boy, he recalled in "Wood smoke," a volume of essays he published a few  years ago, his father had "given" him the river and charged him with its care.
        Mr. Schley is survived by his wife, Shirrel; two children, Thomas, of Beverly, Mass., and Marta Schley, of Bethesda; a brother, John, of Shepherdstown, and two grandchildren.
      