
        Frank C. Newman, a former judge of the California Supreme Court and an authority on constitutional rights, died on Sunday in an Oakland hospital. He was 78 and lived in Orinda, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Judge Newman was a professor of international law and a former dean of the law school at the University of California at Berkeley when Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. appointed him to the State Supreme Court in 1977.
        He wrote a 1980 decision striking down a Santa Barbara ordinance that limited the number of unrelated people who could live together. He said it violated the  state Constitution's right of privacy.
        In writing the majority opinion in a ruling that allowed the distribution of  political leaflets at privately owned shopping centers, he compared the practice to that of free speech in a town square.
        Another decision written by Judge Newman, and issued 10 days before Christmas in 1978, prohibited the display of an illuminated cross on Los Angeles City Hall. The court found the display to be an unconstitutional government endorsement of religion.
        Though he usually sided with the court's liberal majority, he voted to uphold the state's death penalty law.
        Judge Newman, known for writing opinions that were unorthodox in style and sometimes extremely short, left the court at the end of 1982 and resumed teaching law at Berkeley. He had been the law school's dean from 1961 to 1966.
        He was active in international human rights throughout his career, writing numerous articles, co-writing textbooks and lecturing. He established Berkeley's first course on human rights law. He also was the architect of Federal legislation that formed the legal basis for President Jimmy Carter's human rights campaign.
        Judge Newman was active on behalf of several human rights organizations, including Amnesty International, the American and international Institute of Human Rights, the World Affairs Council and the American Civil Liberties Union.
        A native of Eureka, Calif., he received a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College in 1938 and a law degree from Berkeley in 1941. He earned a master's in  law from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in 1953.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances; a daughter, Holly Newman Daniels of Novato, Calif., and a sister, Dorothy Clements of Woodland, Calif.
      