
        Dr. Harry Felix Swartz, one of the nation's foremost authorities on allergies and their remedies, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 84 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        Dr. Swartz, who was in private practice most of his career, wrote prodigiously about his specialty. And in a nation full of allergy sufferers, many of his books were updated as the years wore on.
        His first book to reach a large readership, "Allergy: What It Is and What to Do About It" (Rutgers University Press, 1949), established his national reputation as the doctor to consult about ragweed pollen and more exotic allergies.
        His book traced the history of one of mankind's most ancient ills, from the pioneering contributions of Louis Pasteur and Robert Koch in the 19th century to contemporary studies of allergies and the treatment of their symptoms.
        His other books included "Your Hay Fever and What to Do About It" (1962); "The Allergic Child," a guide for parents (1954); "Layman's Medical Dictionary"  (1963) and "Prescribers Handbook of Therapeutic Drugs" (Medical Economics, 1981).
        A native of Detroit, Dr. Swartz graduated from the University of Michigan, from which he also received his medical degree. He spent the early years of his  career at New York University Medical School and Clinics, the Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospital, and Harlem Hospital.
        He was a professor and chief of the allergy department at New York Polyclinic and Medical School from 1957 to 1972. He then worked in Mexico as editor in chief of the journal Investigacion Medica Internacional and as scientific adviser to the publication Mundo Medico. He returned to New York in 1981.
        Dr. Swartz edited a health book series, translated biomedical texts from Spanish to English and contributed many articles to medical journals and popular magazines.
        His writings were not confined to the study of allergies. As a young doctor during the Depression, he made ends meet by churning out detective mysteries. For such extracurricular efforts, he used the pseudonyms H. Felix Valcoe and Martin Moreno.
        Dr. Swartz is survived by his wife, Marie Marchowsky. His first wife of nearly 40 years, Eva Sutton Swartz, died in 1980.
      