
        Joseph S. Robinson, whose long career as a lawyer was highlighted by a series of cases involving military brutality, stolen royal treasure and jurisdiction over a soldier accused of killing a Japanese civilian, died on Wednesday at his  home in Westhampton, L.I. Mr. Robinson, who also maintained a home in Manhattan, was 89.
        Mr. Robinson's most prominent cases spun out of his service during World War  II in the Judge Advocate General's office.
        When the war ended, Major Robinson, who had been assigned first to Washington and then to Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur's command in Manila, was reassigned to Germany as chief prosecutor in courts-martial.
        In one, he pressed the case against Col. James A. Kilian, who was accused of  sanctioning cruelty to United States soldiers imprisoned in an Army detention camp in Lichfield, England. Colonel Kilian was found guilty of permitting the brutality, fined $500 and reprimanded.
        In another, he prosecuted Col. Jack W. Durant, who was sent to prison in connection with the theft of jewels belonging to the House of Hesse from Kronberg Castle near Frankfurt.
        As a result of that case, Mr. Robinson was retained by the Hesse family when  he returned to civilian life to help them recover the jewels from United States  custody. Not all the gems were recovered, but in 1951, some $600,000 in jewels was flown to Germany in keeping with the Army's promise that it would be returned when no longer needed as evidence.
        The return of title to the jewelry took place in the United States consulate  in Frankfurt in the presence of the 79-year-old Countess of Hesse, Princess Margarethe of Hohenzollern, a granddaughter of Queen Victoria and a younger sister of Kaiser Wilhelm II.
        Mr. Robinson, who had entered the Army in 1941 as a private in the Air Corps, reached the rank of lieutenant colonel five years later, when he was separated from military service and opened a law office in Frankfurt with another colleague from the Army, Earl J. Carroll.
        Mr. Robinson returned to the United States in 1954, and in 1957, he and Mr. Carroll defended Army Specialist William S. Girard in a case that went to the Supreme Court. The question was whether the Japanese courts could try Specialist Girard for manslaughter for having caused the death of Naka Sakai, a Japanese civilian he shot with a spent .30-caliber shell casing fired from a grenade launcher while she was scavenging for scrap on a firing range.
        Mr. Robinson asserted that the executive branch of the Government had "sold out" the constitutional rights of United States soldiers for political purposes. But the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that it found no "constitutional or statutory barrier" to the Government's waiver of its right to try the soldier by court-martial. Specialist Girard was tried by a Japanese court and received a three-year suspended sentence.
        Mr. Robinson maintained a general practice of law in Manhattan until his retirement in 1988.
        He also served as president and chairman of the Four Freedoms Foundation and  as chairman emeritus of the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, into which the foundation was merged.
        Mr. Robinson was born in 1906 in Maple Hill, N.Y., near Pawling, on the New York-Connecticut border. He graduated from the Fordham University School of Law  when he was 21 and devoted himself to litigation until World War II.
        He is survived by his wife of 46 years, the former Christine Sonneck; their son, Michael, of Peru, Vt., and three grandchildren.
      