
        Jamie Uys, who wrote, produced and directed the hit film "The Gods Must Be Crazy," died of a heart attack on Monday at his home. He was 74 and lived in Pretoria.
        One of South Africa's most influential film makers, Mr. Uys (pronounced ACE)  was best known for comedies that satirized class and race relations. His biggest success was "The Gods Must Be Crazy," which depicted a South African Bushman's odyssey to return a soda bottle dropped from an airplane.
        The 1981 film, which cost $5 million to make, earned more than $85 million worldwide. When it was released on a limited basis in the United States in 1984, it slowly gathered momentum despite a limited advertising budget and eventually  became a major moneymaker, chiefly through audience word of mouth.
        Moviegoers in Japan, France, Venezuela, Sweden and other countries were enchanted by the adventures of the film's hero, a Kalahari Bushman who has been  chosen by his fellow tribesmen to return the mysterious bottle to the gods by casting it off the edge of the earth, which they estimate to be within walking distance. His journey brings him into comical contact with a bumbling scientist  and other representatives of 20th-century civilization. In her review in The New York Times, Janet Maslin summed up the film as "even funnier than it is eccentric, which is saying quite a lot."
        In an interview in 1985, Mr. Uys said he had no idea why the film had been such a success. "I wish I knew," he said, "because then I could do it again on my next movie. There seem to be different reasons in every country. In Japan, the Bushman became a national hero. In France, the microbiologist became a hero. And in America, it's a complete mystery to me."
        Responding to critics who found the film patronizing to the Bushmen and blind to the evils of apartheid, Mr. Uys said: "The thing about this film is that everybody's funny, whether white, black or brown. When you make a comedy, you like to see the funny side of the human condition, and you don't see their color."
        Mr. Uys made a sequel, "The Gods Must Be Crazy II," in 1989 that was far less successful. His other films include "The Hellions" (1962), "Dingaka" (1965), "After You, Comrade" (1967) and "Animals Are Beautiful People" (1974).
        Mr. Uys was born in Boksburg, South Africa. His parents were teachers, and he and his wife, Hettie, both taught high school mathematics for several years. He  began making films with a borrowed camera in 1949.
        He is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters.
      