
        Dr. Frederick G. Adams, a Hartford dentist and public-health champion who was Connecticut's Health Commissioner under Gov. William A. O'Neill, died on Sunday  at his Hartford home of complications from Lou Gehrig's disease. He was 64.
        His illness, a debilitating disease of the nervous system, was diagnosed last spring.
        Dr. Adams, who worked to make health a priority of public policy, often spoke of his concerns about AIDS and health care for minority groups and the poor.
        The St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford recently named its new health center at the Stowe Village housing project after him. He was the driving force behind a partnership of the Black Men's Society, the Hartford Housing Authority and the Stowe Village Tenants Association that brought about the opening of the center in October.
        In 1969, the University of Connecticut at Storrs named him its ombudsman for  race relations after a complaint from a black student that she had been pelted with tomatoes and water from the windows of a men's dormitory. In the 1970's, he held a number of other positions on campus, including dean of the School of Allied Health Service, which he helped develop, and vice president for student affairs and services.
        Governor O'Neill appointed him Health Commissioner in 1987, a post he held until 1991. He was also chairman of the State Commission on Human Rights, president of the Urban League of Greater Hartford and director of the Hartford Foundation for Public Giving.
        He was born in Columbus, Ohio, and graduated from Ohio State University, from which he also received his dental degree in 1960, the year he went into general  practice in Connecticut. He added a master's in public health from Yale University in 1970.
        Dr. Adams is survived by his wife, Olivia Marshall Adams; three daughters, Christie Adams of Silver Spring, Md., Keline Adams of Rutherford, N.J., and Alexis A. Shorter, also of Silver Spring; two sisters, Barbara Byrd of Memphis and Lois J. Thurman of Columbus, and three granddaughters.
      