
        Solomon E. Asch, a pioneering social psychologist who studied how peer pressure shapes human behavior but believed that most people act decently when they are not shackled by ignorance, died on Feb. 20 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 88.
        Dr. Asch had been an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania since 1979 and professor there from 1972 to 1979. From 1966 to 1972, he was director of the Institute for Cognitive Studies at Rutgers University, where he held the title distinguished professor of psychology.
        Dr. Asch's early experiments on compliance -- the effects of social pressure on one's perception and interpretation of the world, and on how one forms impressions of others -- are widely recognized as among the century's seminal studies in social psychology. His 1952 textbook, "Social Psychology," was reissued in 1987 by Oxford University Press.
        In 1951, in a classic study of conformity, Dr. Asch asked students to participate in what he called "an experiment in perceptual judgment." Those taking part were asked to say which one of three lines on cards in front of them was the same length as a standard line, also on display.
        Each time the experiment was run, one student heard the others choose a line  obviously shorter or longer than the standard. Faced with unanimity among peers, the student would become uncomfortable and, about a third of the time, go along  with them.
        The uncomfortable student was actually the subject of the experiment, and those who chose lines shorter or longer than the standard were the professor's confederates.
        In recounting that experiment, Dr. Asch told colleagues that the idea for it  had grown out of his early childhood in Poland. As a boy of 7, he stayed up late for his first Passover night. He saw his grandmother pour an extra glass of wine and asked whom it was for.
        For the prophet Elijah, an uncle told him.
        "Will he really take a sip?" the boy asked.
        "Oh, yes," the uncle replied. "You just watch when the time comes."
        Filled with the sense of suggestion and expectation, the boy thought he saw the level of wine in the cup drop just a bit.
        Early in World War II, when Hitler was at the height of his power, Dr. Asch,  then a professor in Brooklyn College's psychology department, studied the effects of propaganda and indoctrination. Propaganda is most effective, he concluded, when fear and ignorance mix. "But the human mind," he added, is "an organ for the discovery of truths rather than of falsehoods."
        Prof. Henry Gleitman of the University of Pennsylvania's psychology department said Dr. Asch was a man who understood better than most how individuals can do regrettable things in the desire to get along but who nonetheless thought that "people would behave humanely, morally, if appropriately informed."
        Dr. Asch's early experiments in conformity formed much of the basis for studies of the depersonalizing aspects of modern American life, particularly big-city life. After Kitty Genovese was stabbed to death on a Queens street in 1964 while more than 30 of her neighbors ignored her cries for help, social psychologists conducted experiments in which they found that a person who was alone was more likely to come to the aid of a stranger in distress than was a person in the company of others.
        Dr. Asch received numerous awards and fellowships, and was the author of dozens of books and articles. Yet he was disdainful of American academia's "publish or perish" ethos, recalled Prof. John Sabini, the chairman of the psychology department at the University of Pennsylvania. Professor Sabini said Dr. Asch had once asked, "Would it have made any difference if Thomas Aquinas had published five years later?"
        Solomon Asch was born in Warsaw and came to the United States when he was about 13. He lived on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and learned English by reading Charles Dickens. He graduated from the City College of New York in 1928  and earned a master's degree from Columbia University in 1930 and his Ph.D. from Columbia in 1932.
        Surviving are his wife of 65 years, Florence; a brother, Paul, of Los Angeles; two grandsons, Eric, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and David, of Silver Spring, Md.; a granddaughter, Laurie, of Silver Spring, and a great-grandson, Peter, of  Silver Spring. Dr. Asch's son, Peter, a professor of economics at Rutgers, died  in 1990.
      