
        Dr. Robert R. J. Gallati, a visionary New York City police official who designed the first computerized fingerprint identification system and sketched out many other advanced technological innovations in law enforcement, died on Sunday at a hospital in De Kalb, Ill. A resident of Harbor Heights, Fla., he was 82 and had been living with his daughter in De Kalb.
        Among other things, Dr. Gallati has been credited with dreaming up recent innovations like the use of computers in police cars to provide an instant check on license plates and drivers licenses and computerized video scanning of license plates at toll booths.
        Given the range of his later achievements, it is hardly surprising that Dr.  Gallati, who started his career as a lawyer, was a member of the over-qualified  police rookie class of 1940, a Depression-era year when lawyers in New York were a dime a dozen, clients were as scarce as hen's teeth and civil service jobs were in such demand it was said to be easier to get into Harvard Medical School  than to land a job in the Sanitation Department.
        Nor is it surprising that Dr. Gallati ranked at the top of his police class.  By the time he applied for the force, he already had a law degree from Fordham University (1938) and a master's in law from St. John's University (1940). By the time he retired in 1973, he had obtained two other degrees, including a doctorate from Brooklyn law school (1957), and was a candidate for a doctorate in public administration from New York University.
        He had also spent five years as the commanding officer of the police academy, served as dean of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and lectured at a dozen colleges, from Annapolis to the University of Southern California. After his retirement, he became a tenured professor at Northeastern University in Boston.
        Given his commitment to education, it is surprising that Dr. Gallati found time for police work. And yet, among other things during his rapid rise in law enforcement, Dr. Gallati walked a beat, helped supervise security for the raft of heads of state who attended the 15th General Assembly of the United Nations in 1960, commanded the Manhattan North uniformed force, ran the police commissioner's confidential investigation unit, and then, as Assistant Chief Inspector in 1962, landed in the position that would be the platform for his most significant contributions to law enforcement.
        He was named the department's chief of planning, a position that brought him  to the forefront of technological applications.
        Despite his deep involvement in New York City police affairs, the event that  changed his life and altered the future of law enforcement occurred outside New  York City in 1957 when the state police stumbled on a high-level Mafia meeting in the little town of Apalachin, N.Y., and rounded up 75 of the nation's most notorious mobsters.
        The publicity generated by the raid highlighted the sorry state of police identification systems, which were so cumbersome it took the state police two years to assemble the full arrest records of the Apalachin suspects, one of whom was found to have 200 separate police files.
        One of Dr. Gallati's former colleagues, Edmund LeFranco, recalled yesterday that although distinct fingerprint patterns had long since been reduced to numerical codes, matching a suspect's code required going through files by hand, and the task was made even more arduous because there was no single centralized  file in the state.
        "If the police arrested someone in Nassau County," he said, "the fingerprint  cards would have to be sent to four or five different agencies in the state and  it could take weeks."
        The publicity focused on the problem, in turn, shook loose a torrent of corrective Federal money to bring law enforcement up to technological speed.
        And when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller looked around for someone to help spend New York State's share, Dr. Gallati was right there with a vision and a plan.
        Taking a leave from the city department in 1964, he was named first director  of the New York State Identification and Intelligence System, and over the next  eight years he developed a rapid-response computerized system of fingerprint identification that became a model for computerized systems later adopted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other states.
        It was an index of the rudimentary state of technology that in the late 1960's, Dr. Gallati used the first fax machine in state government, to send fingerprints from White Plains to Albany.
        By the time he stepped down in 1973, Dr. Gallati had a computerized fingerprint file of some 3.5 million individuals.
        Since then, the system, now part of the Division of Criminal Justice Services, has expanded considerably, primarily by adapting successive waves of computerized technology to the task of rapidly transmitting and matching the fingerprints of criminal suspects -- or state job applicants -- to those on computer files.
        Although much of the technology did not exist in his day, Dr. Gallati had envisioned much of it as early as the 1960's, Mr. LeFranc recalled, perhaps even including the advance expected to be introduced to the New York City police department within the next year -- inkless fingerprinting in which a suspect's fingers are pressed against a computer screen in, say, Brooklyn, and transmitted instantly to Albany, where Dr. Gallati is still regarded with awe for inventing  the system in effect today.
        After he retired in 1973, Dr. Gallati was deputy police commissioner in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and chief of police in Brockton, Mass., before starting a private  security service company in Punta Gorda, Fla.
        In addition to his daughter, Michele Glasgow of De Kalb, Dr. Gallati is survived by two sons, Robert, of Albany, and Richard, of Philadelphia, and five  grandchildren.
      