
        Martin Kessler, a New York publisher of influential books about contemporary  social history, public policy and economics, died on Thursday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 66.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his daughter, Elinor Kessler.
        At his death, Mr. Kessler had his own imprint, Martin Kessler Books/ Free Books. He started his career at Free Press publishers in Manhattan but in 1967 joined Basic Books, where he acquired, edited and published many authors whose ideas and critiques could inspire public discussion for years and shape the viewpoints of readers.
        He rejoined The Free Press in 1993 and started his imprint with "The Tyranny  of the Majority" by Lani Guinier, who had been nominated by President Clinton to be Assistant Attorney General for civil rights.
        It was a book that gave Ms. Guinier a chance to present her views on voting rights to he general public. Opponents of Ms. Guinier had used some of her earlier writings on the subject to derail her nomination.
        Mr. Kessler's current books include "The Winner-Take-All Society" by Robert H. Frank and Phillip J. Cook, "The Luck Business" by Robert Goodman and "On the  Eve of the Millenium" by Conor Cruise O'Brien.
        In his 25 years at Basic Books he edited and published two Pulitzer-Prize winning books, "Godel, Escher, Bach" by Douglas Hofstadter and "The Social Transformation of American Medicine" by Paul Starr.
        He shepherded to publication notable books like "Losing Ground" by Charles Murray, "The Zero Sum Society" by Lester Thurow, "The De industrialization of America" by Barry Bluestone and Ben Harrison and "The Evolution of Cooperation"  by Robert Axelrod.
        Other titles under his care included "Faces at the Bottom of the Well" by Derrick Bell, "Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby" by Stephen L. Carter,  "The Overworked American" by Juliet Schor, "Trading Places" by Clyde V. Prestowitz, and "Poor Support" by David W. Ellwood.
        Among the authors he edited were James Q. Wilson, Michael Walzer, Joseph Nye, Sylvia Hewlett, Herbert Simon and Robert Alter. During 14 of his 25 years at Basic Books he served as president and editorial director.
        Mr. Kessler was born in Vienna. He immigrated to England in 1939, where he completed high school. After coming to New York in 1946, he graduated from City  College with a degree in history and earned an M.A. in political science at New York University.
        Beside his daughter, also of the Upper West Side, he is survived by his former wife, Aline Pick Kessler, who lives in Greenwich Village.
      