
        Arthur Martin, a retired British intelligence official who played a key role  in identifying Anthony Blunt, a prominent British art historian, as having belonged to a Soviet spy ring, died on Jan. 10, the British newspaper The Guardian reported on Friday. Mr. Martin was 81.
        The Guardian did not disclose the site or cause of his death or the place where he resided after retiring in 1969 from M.I.6, Britain's overseas intelligence organization. Earlier he worked on the Blunt case as an official of M.I.5, which was responsible for counterespionage and internal security.
        Mr. Martin was described in 1987 in The New York Times Book Review by Stephen Koch, an expert on aspects of Soviet espionage, as "the agent who cracked the case" of Mr. Blunt, a former Cambridge University don and counterintelligence official who was exposed by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in the House of Commons in 1979 as having been a Soviet agent.
        Nigel West, a British military historian, wrote in his 1989 book "Molehunt: Searching for Soviet Spies in M.I.5," that Mr. Martin, on a visit to Washington, was introduced to a former Cambridge undergraduate, Michael Straight.
        "Without prompting, Straight volunteered a wealth of information about a Communist cell" at Cambridge before World War II, Mr. West wrote, adding: "Some  of his closet friends at Cambridge had subsequently worked in British intelligence, including Anthony Blunt. Straight confirmed Martin's suspicions about Blunt: Not only had he been a spy, but he had attempted to recruit Straight into a K.G.B. network."
        Mr. Blunt went on to make a secret confession in 1964, was granted immunity from prosecution and was never directly punished by the British Government. He died in 1983, five years before the death of a fellow spy, Kim Philby.
        Mr. Martin attended a state school in Britain and was involved with the intercepting of enemy radio communications in World War II.
        He is survived by his second wife, Joan.
      