
        Shamus Culhane, a pioneering animator who made the Seven Dwarfs march home singing "Heigh Ho" in Walt Disney's "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs," died on Friday at his home. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Culhane's career in animation, which began before movies could talk and was accelerated in the sound era by his talent for synchronizing facial movements with dialogue, spanned more than 60 years beginning in 1925.
        Mr. Culhane was born in Ware, Mass., on Nov. 12, 1908. When he was a small child, the family moved to Manhattan. His father, James, worked for the Interborough Rapid Transit Company. His mother, the former Alma LaPierre, was a  housewife. When Mr. Culhane was 6, his father took him to a vaudeville house where the boy saw Winsor McCay, one of the earliest film cartoonists, show his animated film "Gertie the Dinosaur."
        Mr. Culhane began drawing as a child, winning medals for his work while a student at Public School 82 in Yorkville and at Boy's High School in Harlem, then the only city high school to offer commercial art courses. After a trip to  the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he decided to become an artist.
        When his father abandoned the family, the 16-year old Mr. Culhane, the eldest of three children, quit school to support them. Walter Lantz, his best friend's  brother, was then the head of animation for J. R. Bray, the first person to make theatrically distributed cartoons, and Mr. Lantz got Mr. Culhane a job as office boy.
        In 1925, covering for a drunken animator, Mr. Culhane animated his first scene -- a monkey with a hot towel. In the next 62 years, working for 18 different cartoon studios, including his own, Shamus Culhane would become one of the world's foremost character animators.
        He was the only animator who worked on all of the first four animated feature cartoons -- Disney's "Snow White" (1937) and "Pinocchio" (1940), for which Mr. Culhane animated the fox and cat selling Pinocchio to the Pleasure Island coachman; Max Fleischer's "Gulliver's Travels" (1939) and Dave Fleischer's "Mr.  Bug Goes to Town" (1941), with its Hoagy Carmichael-Frank Loesser score.
        Mr. Culhane also animated such characters as Krazy Kat, Betty Boop, Popeye, Pluto ("the essence of dog," Mr. Culhane called him), and Woody Woodpecker, whose surreal personality Mr. Culhane helped develop in a series of shorts he directed for Mr. Lantz in the 1940's.
        In "The 50 Greatest Cartoons as Selected by 1,000 Animation Professionals," a book published in 1994 by Turner Broadcasting, Mr. Culhane was represented as the director of "The Barber of Seville" (1944), in which Woody shaves a construction worker while singing "Largo al factotum" from Rossini's "Barber of  Seville," matching the language's large proportion of vowels to consonants with an agility of movement possible only in animation.
        In the realm of commercials, Mr. Culhane produced, directed, wrote and often  animated commercials, including the Ajax cleanser elves moving to music and the  words, "Use Ajax -- boom boom -- the foaming cleanser"; and the classic Muriel cigar spot, with Edie Adams delivering its Mae West parody line, "Why don't you  come up and smoke me some time?"
        Mr. Culhane tended to view the world through an animator's eyes. As he once watched another significant world figure, Richard M. Nixon, during the Watergate scandal, he said, "Nixon always moves as if he's three frames out of sync."
        At Expo 67, the 1967 World's Fair in Montreal, the Buckminster Fuller geodesic dome that was the site of the American pavilion contained artifacts of  two great American achievements: the space program and film.
        The film retrospective included excerpts from movie classics like "Mr. Smith  Goes to Washington," "On the Waterfront" and "Gone With the Wind," but the sole  example of animation in the film retrospective was Mr. Culhane's sequence of the Seven Dwarfs marching and singing "Heigh Ho."
        The "Heigh Ho" sequence was also part of Mr. Culhane's first retrospective, "The Golden Jubilee of a Master Animator" at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington in 1974; "The Golden Age of Animation," the Whitney Museum's show of Disney films, drawings and backgrounds in 1981, and Mr. Culhane's 83d birthday retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in New York in  1991.
        As the head of the Paramount cartoon studio in 1966 and 1967, Mr. Culhane produced the Mighty Thor cartoons for television. In the late 1970's, he ran against the cost-cutting style of so-called limited animation by producing, directing and co-writing (with a cousin, John Culhane) a series of fully animated ABC prime-time television specials: "Noah's Animals" (1976), the story  of Noah from the animals' point of view; and two sequels, "King of the Beasts" and "Last of the Red-Hot Dragons."
        Mr. Culhane was the author of an autobiography, "Talking Animals and Other People," published by St. Martin's Press in 1986, and "Animation From Script to  Screen," an explanation of animation technique published by St. Martin's in 1988.
        He concluded "Talking Animals" by writing: "I was a link with the primitive past, before sound, color or tape. I had been permitted to live long enough to see and use the greatest tools for artists that were ever invented. I am convinced that computer animation will produce beautiful works of art -- beautiful beyond our most fantastic dreams."
        Mr. Culhane lived to see the beginning of the realization of that dream when  hand-drawn animation of his early career was combined with computer animation in Disney films like "Aladdin," "The Lion King" and "Pocahontas."
        With his beret, goatee and horn-rimmed eyeglasses, Mr. Culhane looked more like a 1950's be-bop musician than what he was: an Irish-American high school dropout from an impoverished background who made himself an artist.
        Mr. Culhane is survived by his wife of 35 years, the former Juana Hegarty, and by two sons of his marriage to Maxine Marx, the daughter of Chico Marx, which ended in divorce: Brian Culhane of Seattle and Kevin Marx Culhane of Portland, Ore.
      