
        Brodrick Haldane, a witty and stylish photographer who used his impeccable social credentials to gain access to the rich, famous and well-connected, died in Edinburgh on Saturday. He was 83 and died of cancer.
        Hailed by Cecil Beaton as the "founder of modern society photography," Mr. Haldane used his connections and self-deprecating charm to photograph celebrities and socialites from John F. Kennedy and Marlene Dietrich to Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother. A generation of society photographers, including the Earls of Snowdon and Lichfield, came of age under his influence.
        Brodrick Vernon Chinnery Haldane was born in Edinburgh in 1912, the son of the 26th Laird of Glen eagles, a scion of one of Scotland's oldest landed families. His relatives included Viscount Haldane, the Liberal Lord Chancellor,  and the scientist J. B. .S. Haldane.
        He grew up in a world of privilege, spending his early years in Alltshellach, the Haldane mansion near Inverness, where, he later recalled, "the grander you were, the more shabby you looked." Later, the family moved to Gleneagles, the family's 7,000-acre estate in Perthshire.
        Mr. Haldane had a lifelong love of society gossip, and began his career by telephoning reports of debutante parties to society columnists. On an editor's suggestion, he began taking pictures, too.
        He scored an early photographic coup when he persuaded the reclusive George Bernard Shaw to pose for a portrait. By his own account, Mr. Haldane was so nervous that he could barely take a light reading, spurring Shaw to rise from his chair and come to his aid.
        Mr. Haldane loved to tell such tales on himself, saying once that he "found difficulty in getting my subjects into focus." At one point, he showered the Aga Khan with shards from an exploding flashbulb.
        Early in his career, when it was still considered shocking for a photographer to take pictures at a party he had been invited to socially, Mr. Haldane was doused with champagne by the Duke of Westminster. Later, less well-connected photographers who were forced to wait outside showered him with mud and stones.
        As his reputation grew, Mr. Haldane became friends with and photographed a number of artists, actors and writers, like Marlene Dietrich, whom he photographed swimming in the south of France; Somerset Maugham, Charlie Chaplin, Lillian Gish, Vladimir Nabokov and Noel Coward, to name a few.
        He had great admirers in the Duchess of Windsor and in the Queen Mother, who, the story goes, once chastised her bodyguard for blocking Mr. Haldane's view of her. "Mr. Haldane is a friend of mine," she is said to have remarked. "Now, Brodrick, where would you like me to stand?"
        Mr. Haldane served as a private in World War II but did not enjoy his military service. One account of his war record holds that he planted a small garden around his gun emplacement at Chatham and reclined peacefully between bomb attacks, reading Tatler and Vogue.
        Mr. Haldane, who reportedly stood on his head for five minutes every morning  in an effort to help his hair grow, also had a love of the stage, much to his family's dismay. He appeared in several West End productions. He had small roles in a number of films, including "Murder at Monte Carlo," starring Errol Flynn, and "Get Your Man," with Rex Harrison. At the age of 79, he appeared as a judge's clerk in the Scottish television series "The Advocate."
        In the 1960's, Mr. Haldane, who never married, set up house in an ornate Georgian apartment in Edinburgh that his brother, the 27th Laird of Gleneagles,  bought for him. He furnished it with family heirlooms and opened it to the public, which was treated by the master of the house to personal tours of such objects as the wheelchair used by Sir Walter Scott, a Haldane ancestor.
        When he died, Mr. Haldane had just completed his autobiography. In January, he told an interviewer, "I don't care what you say about me, as long as you make it amusing."
        Correction:  February 9, 1996, Friday
        A picture caption on Tuesday with an obituary of a Scottish photographer misspelled his given name. He was Brodrick Haldane, not Rodrick.
      