
        Julian Samora, a scholar who encountered such pervasive prejudice growing up  Chicano in southern Colorado that he became the first recognized Mexican-American sociologist and a leader in founding the academic movement for  Mexican-American studies, died on Friday at his home in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 75 and had been suffering from a rare disorder of the nervous system.
        Considering that his family had been living in what is now southern Colorado  since the days of the conquistadors, Dr. Samora found it especially grating as a child to walk through his hometown of Pagosa Springs and find a sign at the entrance to the public park reading: "No Mexicans, Indians or Dogs."
        It did not help his frame of mind when he was forced to repeat the first grade because he spoke only Spanish, or when the entire cast of a high school play walked out after he was assigned a leading role.
        By the time he lost a campaign for student body president at Adams State College by one vote, with his own roommate refusing to vote for a Mexican-American, his career plans were all but set.
        Indeed, when he was able to get a fifth-rate motel room in Fort Collins, Colo., only because the desk clerk thought he was from India, Dr. Samora, who had gone to Fort Collins to enroll as a graduate student at Colorado State University, was already well along on his plan to use scholarship as a tool to combat prejudice and improve the lot of his fellow Mexican-Americans.
        As he later put it, his entire career had been fueled by anger and pursued "to prove I was was equal."
        By most measures he succeeded. After receiving a master's degree, he went onto Washington University in St. Louis, where in 1953 he became the first Mexican-American known to have received a doctorate in sociology and anthropology, a distinction that is generally hedged by the observation that if  there had been any earlier ones they made it a point to hide their ethnic heritage.
        In later years, Dr. Samora produced a torrent of research papers focused on Mexican-Americans. One early study, which traced the different levels of hospital treatment received by Mexican-Americans and other Americans to the Chicano culture's preference for traditional remedies, has been credited with helping to establish medical sociology as an independent discipline.
        That work helped Dr. Samora get a teaching position at Michigan State University in 1957. Two years later he received a tenured position as professor  of sociology at the University of Notre Dame, which became his base until he retired in 1985.
        While there, Dr. Samora turned Notre Dame into a virtual magnet for Mexican-American graduate students, many of whom received doctorates and went on to high academic positions in Mexican-American-studies programs that proliferated in the wake of Dr. Samora's success.
        Dr. Samora, whose earlier writings tended to be dry academic works, liked to  say that once he received tenure, he broadened his scholarship and his activism.
        Indeed, using a series of Ford Foundation grants, he helped found the National Council of La Raza, widely regarded as the leading Mexican-American civil rights organization, and engaged in well-publicized research into the cultural links across the United States-Mexican border.
        As one of only a handful of scholars studying Mexican-American culture, particularly immigration, Dr. Samora had a significant impact both in spotlighting and reducing the social barriers faced by Chicanos.
        For all that, his most influential work was often on a more personal level, whether serving as a distant role model for waves of younger Mexican-American scholars, or in face-to-face encounters at academic conferences or at Notre Dame. He and his wife, Betty, turned their South Bend, Ind., home into a virtual Mexican-American student center.
        It was a tribute to his success that after his retirement from Notre Dame, Michigan State created the Julian Samora Research Institute in his honor to continue and expand his pioneering research into the Chicano experience in the midwest.
        "He was my role model," the institute's director, Refugio I. Rochin, said yesterday.
        One of the most telling tributes to the impact of Dr. Samora's life and work  came yesterday from the institute's founding director, Richard Navarro, who said that today's young Mexican-American scholars have such wide-ranging academic opportunities that they must be taught what things were like before Dr. Samora decided to prove something to the people who put up signs reading "No Mexicans,  Indians or Dogs."
        "They don't how things were," he said.
        Largely because of Dr. Samora, they are not that way any more.
        Dr. Samora, whose wife died about 10 years ago, is survived by a daughter, Carmen, of Albuquerque; three sons, John of Denver, David of Santa Fe, N.M., and Jeff of South Bend, and three grandchildren.
      