
        Ralph I. Straus, a prominent New York City merchant and philanthropist and a  frequent consultant to the Federal Government on foreign economic policy, died on Monday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92.
        He died after a fall, his wife, Katherine, said.
        Mr. Straus, who was born in Red Bank, N.J., attended the Hotchkiss School in  Lakeville, Conn., and Harvard, where he received a bachelor's degree and an M.B.A.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1927, he formally joined R. H. Macy & Company, which was built by his great-grandfather, Bernard Straus.
        From 1928 to 1941 Mr. Straus held several positions at Macy's, including corporate secretary, member of the executive committee and director. During that period, he was also active in charitable affairs organized by New York retailers, including the Greater New York Fund.
        Mr. Straus's Government service began in April 1941, when he was named a consultant to the administrator of export control. After the United States entered World War II, he served with the Board of Economic Warfare, the War Production Board and the Allied Military Government in Italy as Military Governor of Naples.
        After the war, instead of returning to retailing, Mr. Straus divided his time between numerous charitable and civic pursuits as well as the promotion and development of free trade. In 1950, he was appointed special assistant to W. Averell Harriman, who was then a roving ambassador, to head up a trade promotion section for the countries receiving aid under the Marshall Plan.
        Mr. Straus then served as a consultant or director of a wide variety of organizations devoted to trade, including a stint in the mid-1950's as vice chairman and treasurer of the National Trade Committee. In 1968 he was named by  President Lyndon B. Johnson to a 34-member public committee to recommend improvements in the nation's foreign trade.
        Mr. Straus's charitable interests included the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, which he served as president and board member. He was a trustee of the  Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and served as a director of the 1964/1965 New York World's Fair.
        Mr. Straus and Mrs. Straus maintained homes in Carefree, Ariz., and Southampton, L.I. His first marriage, to the former Matilda Bradfor Day, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, the former Katherine Mulvane Maffit, Mr. Straus is survived by two sons, Thomas P., of Rye, N.Y., and Bradford, of Winthrop, Mass.; eight grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      