
        Russell Colley, a thwarted women's fashion designer who used his consolation  career as a mechanical engineer to become the Calvin Klein of space wear, died on Sunday at the Ohio Masonic Home in Springfield, Ohio. He was 97.
        By the time the United States began its efforts at manned space flight in the 1950's, Mr. Colley, a longtime engineer with the B. F. Goodrich Company in Akron, Ohio, was an old hand at outfitting high-altitude aviators.
        Indeed, he had earned his sobriquet as the father of the spacesuit in the 1930's when he worked closely with the visionary barnstorming aviator Wiley Post in designing the pressurized man-from-Mars suit that Post used in setting high-altitude flying records.
        A later modification by Mr. Colley for Navy pilots in World War II became the basis for the series of suits he helped design for the Mercury astronauts.
        Mr. Colley, whose engineering feats ranged far beyond fashions for outer space, obtained some 65 patents during his 34-year Goodrich career, among them one for the rubberized pneumatic de-icer still used to clear ice from airplane wings and one for the riv-nut, a device that allows a single worker to apply rivets to airplane wings, something that would be impossible under traditional riveting methods requiring a second worker positioned on the far side of riveted material.
        A native of Stoneham, Mass., where his father operated a pharmacy, Mr. Colley was both artistically and mechanically inclined as a child, but for all the model airplanes he made in his youth, it was not until he got to high school that he figured out what he wanted to do with his life.
        But when he announced that his dream was to become a designer of women's fashions, his teacher was so aghast at the notion of a boy aspiring to such a career that Mr. Colley was lucky there was no school psychologist to send him to.
        Instead he was shooed to a mechanical drawing class, where he discovered the  joys of finding inventive solutions to tough problems, something that would become his specialty at Goodrich.
        Mr. Colley, who studied at the Wentworth Institute of Mechanical Engineering  in Massachusetts, held a series of jobs in Ohio before joining Goodrich in 1928.
        Four years later he invented the de-icer. The test pilot was so skeptical that he thought it advisable to have the inventor put his life on the line during the first test flight, a hop from Cleveland to Buffalo through a severe winter storm. Mr. Colley obliged, even though he had to sit on an orange crate in the cramped mail compartment of the single-seat Martin bi-plane.
        "It was day when even the ducks were walking," Mr. Colley later recalled. "Nobody else was stupid enough to be up in the air."
        The de-icers worked perfectly, however, and pilot and inventor made it safely through the storm.
        It was two years after that, in 1934, that Mr. Colley was assigned to satisfy Post's request for a pressurized rubber suit that would allow him to fly well above the 40,000-foot level, where the air pressure becomes so low that an unprotected flier would simply explode.
        Although pressurized clothing had been used by mountain climbers since the early 1900's and had become a staple of science fiction, Mr. Colley was charting new territory in designing a suit capable of protecting a pilot during extended  periods of high-altitude flight.
        After several failures, he came up with a design that owed so much to science fiction that when Post was once forced to make an emergency landing, the first person he encountered after he walked away from his stricken aircraft almost passed out from fright thinking the creature wearing an aluminum version of a diver's helmet must surely have arrived from Mars.
        The specter must have been especially frightening because Mr. Colley's customized head gear featured an off-center viewing port tailored to the one-eyed Post's good eye.
        As a fashion designer for outer space, Mr. Colley was a hands-on expert. He ran up part of the Post flight suit at his home using the sewing machine of his  wife, Dorothy, while Post passed his time teaching the Colleys' 10-year-old daughter, Barbara, how to play craps -- so well, in fact, that, as she later recalled, when he left he signed an I.O.U. "for 50,000" without specifying 50,000 what.
        A year later, before his final, fatal flight, she said, Post called and told  her he planned to pay off in kisses.
        The development of pressurized cabins made pressurized suits unnecessary until the space program created a new need.
        Mr. Colley came through once again, tackling a series of difficult technological problems with his usual flair, among other things using the movement of a tomato worm to solve a problem of flexibility.
        Like the famous designers of the Yale Bowl who were so taken with their engineering feat that it was not until 70,000 spectators showed up for the first game that they remembered they had not provided restrooms, Mr. Colley and his colleagues had one famous lapse, much to the embarrassment of the astronaut Alan Shepard who had to spend so much time testing one suit that---- well, later models have included built-in facilities.
        Mr. Colley, who designed gloves for John Glenn's first orbital flight containing tiny light bulbs in the fingertips, was given the National Aeronautic and Space Administration's highest honor for civilians two years ago.
        By then he had long been living in retirement, such as retirement was for a man who continued to make his own skis and archery equipment in his basement shop and who spent his last years turning out a series of watercolors that gained him fame as one of northeastern Ohio's most acclaimed artists.
        Mr. Colley's wife died several years ago. He is survived by his daughter, Barbara Fuldine of Pinehurst, N.C., two grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      