
        John H. Loudon, who headed the Royal Dutch/Shell Group when it was the world's second largest oil company and guided it through times of turmoil in the Middle East, died on Saturday. He was 90.
        He died of respiratory failure at the Haarlem Hospital in Haarlem, the Netherlands, his son John said.
        During his 14-year tenure as head of the sprawling Anglo-Dutch oil empire, Mr. Loudon helped to rebuild the company's operations from the devastation of World War II, guided it through the shutdown of the Suez Canal in 1956 and the war that followed and worked hard to preserve the oil group's influence in the Middle East during the 1960's.
        As the power grew of the nations that eventually formed the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Mr. Loudon used his friendships with the sheiks and the leaders in the region to defend the Shell group's interests.
        A tall athletic man who spoke five languages, he moved easily in the realm of political leaders as diverse as de Gaulle and the Shah of Iran. He kept close friendships with such business leaders as David Rockefeller and Henry Ford II.
        After he took over as director general of the Royal Dutch/Shell Group in 1951, he took steps to diversify the management of the closely knit and secretive company.
        Seeing that nationalism was growing in many countries where oil was being discovered and produced, he established training programs to groom executives from countries in the Middle East and elsewhere. He also sought to prevent discrimination and put in policies to have the European managers treat the nationals as equals.
        According to a Time magazine profile in 1960, Mr. Loudon sent his managers out to foreign operatons with this advice: "Be a good citizen, obey the laws but never get mixed up in politics. Never contribute to political campaigns and never pay baksheesh. Never. Never."
        After he stepped down as chairman in 1965, he continued to be active in the company as chairman of the board of supervisory directors for 11 more years.
        When David Rockfeller, the president of Chase Manhattan Bank, set up an advisory committee in 1965 to counsel the bank on its growing international business, Mr. Loudon was named as chairman. He retired from the group in 1977.
        Mr. Loudon was born in 1905 in The Hague into a prominent Dutch family. His father, Hugo Loudon, was one of the pioneers who built up Royal Dutch and became president of its board.
        John began his career at the group in 1930 after getting a law degree from Utrecht University, in the Netherlands.
        He was sent to Venezuela where he worked on the rigs in Lake Maracaibo, one of the major oil producing areas that Shell had helped to develop in the 1920's.
        After a year he returned to the Netherlands and married a daughter from an aristocratic Dutch family, Marie van Tuyll van Serooskerken. They had three sons. She died in 1988.
        The couple was part of the social set in London where he liked to race his yacht and was made a member of the Royal Yacht Squadron.
        He collected Old Master paintings and Impressionist art, some of which he donated to museums such as the Maurits Huis in The Hague.
        After he stepped down as chairman, Mr. Loudon pursued his interests in art and in preserving wildlife, serving as president of the World Wildlife Fund.
        Among the many boards he served on was the Ford Foundation and as a fellow and trustee of the Pierpont Morgan Library.
        S. Parker Gilbert, the president of the board of trustees of the Morgan Library, recalled that Mr. Loudon remained active until near the end of his life in helping to oversee the library.
        Mr. Loudon is survived by his second wife, Charlotte van Sminia, and three sons: John and George, who live in London, and Frederick, who lives in the Netherlands.
      