
        Edward Adamson, a pioneer in using art to treat mental illness, died last Saturday at his London studio. He was 84.
        Mr. Adamson believed that "one of the best ways to help people who are mentally or emotionally disturbed is to get them being creative," said Dr. Anthony Stevens, a Jungian analyst and psychiatrist who often referred patients  to him.
        For three decades Mr. Adamson worked with patients at Netherne Hospital, a vast Victorian-era psychiatric hospital in Surrey. He began at Netherne in 1946, at a time when treating mental illness often meant controlling its symptoms through drugs, electric shock or operations like lobotomies. Art therapy was virtually unknown.
        Mr. Adamson, who held the unusual title of art director at the hospital, had  a background in art, not psychology. He felt art therapists should leave the discussion of what art said about the patient to doctors and analysts.
        "He took an extremely humanistic view," said Rebecca Hoffberger, director of  the American Visionary Art Museum in Baltimore, which has works by some of Mr. Adamson's patients in its collection. "He was never interested in diagnosis; he  was interested in the human being."
        Dr. Stevens added: "He was fascinated by all kinds of works. The most dilapidated schizophrenic would present him with a drawing done on a piece of lavatory paper with a burnt match, and Edward would receive it as work of art."
        Mr. Adamson was born in Cheshire in 1911 and received a degree in fine art from Bromley & Beckenham College outside London. He worked as a graphic artist at a Fleet Street advertising agency in the 1930's. While serving as a medical orderly during World War II, he became interested in helping long-term hospital  patients pass the time.
        He worked with Adrian Hill, an artist who taught painting to soldiers in tuberculosis sanatoriums, and later, in conjunction with a British Red Cross program that loaned artwork to hospitals, Mr. Adamson lectured about art to patients around the country, including Netherne.
        The superintendent at Netherne, Dr. Cunningham Dax, was "tremendously impressed with Edward's rapport with patients," Dr. Stevens said, and hired him  to set up an art studio.
        After he left Netherne, Mr. Adamson worked as a consultant at colleges in the London area and had a private practice in art therapy. He was the founder and first chairman of the British Association of Art Therapists, and lectured on the subject in Europe and in the United States, where the field developed independently.
        Mr. Adamson also built a collection of patients' art, now numbering about 60,000 pieces, that is housed at Ashton Wold, the estate of Miriam Rothschild.
        In his later years Mr. Adamson was critical of a movement to train as art therapists people whose background was more in the field of psychology than art. "Can't the psychologist remain a psychologist and not try and take art over?" he asked in the 1987 interview.
        Mr. Adamson is survived by his companion, John Timlin.
      