
        Eligio Panti, a traditional healer whose ancient herbal remedies attracted the attention of modern medical scientists and drew thousands of patients to the door of his humble hut in Belize, died on Sunday in his home in the village of San Antonio. He was 103 and widely regarded as the last Mayan master healer in Belize.
        A native of Guatemala who was taken to what was then British Honduras when he was a year old, Don Eligio never learned to read and write, but while working in a chicle camp, extracting sap to be used in chewing gum, he began to acquire the lore of the rain forest that would make him famous far beyond his country's borders.
        As an apprentice to a noted bush doctor, Don Jeronimo Requena, Don Eligio was schooled in a thousand-year-old oral tradition, learning what many generations of botanical trial and error had taught his predecessors: which obscure plant would cure which ailment and how to prepare each cure.
        After learning enough to set up his own practice in 1931, Don Eligio, an inveterate experimenter, added to the vast but fragile store of medical knowledge by discovering new remedies.
        He treated 3,000 to 5,000 patients a year, a quarter of whom came from beyond Belize, drawn to his remote village of 800 people by his fame. But he was long regarded in 20th century Belize as a relic of superstition, so much so that he attracted no serious apprentices, making it appear increasingly likely that his  store of knowledge would die with him.
        That began to change in 1987 when Rosita Arvigo, an American trained in a branch of chiropractic medicine, went to Belize to set up her own practice and ended up signing on as Don Eligio's apprentice.
        For years, she painstakingly made a written record of every plant remedy in his repertory. Her 1993 book, "Sastun: My Apprenticeship with a Maya Healer" (Harper, San Francisco), widened the master's fame.
        By then the work of Don Eligio and other traditional healers around the world had attracted the interest of medical researchers. Don Eligio himself contributed 500 plants to a program being conducted by the National Cancer Institute to determine whether they and thousands of other plants collected for  the program might contain chemical agents that would be useful in treating cancer or AIDS.
        Partly as a result of such modern scientific interest in his work, attitudes  toward Don Eligio's practice have softened in Belize, Ms. Arvigo said yesterday, and a number of practitioners have sprung up to keep his tradition alive.
        For all his success as a healer, even Don Eligio could not find a cure for the lonely heart. After the death of his wife in 1980, Don Eligio, who had married her in 1907, when he was 15 and she was 14, spent the last 15 years of his life in a vain search for someone to take her place.
        Told he was too old to marry, Don Eligio would protest, "But my money isn't old." His eyesight, to be sure, was not what it once was, but his sense of humor suffered no such decline.
        "I'm so blind,"' he would say, "I wouldn't know if I was kissing a girl or a  tree."
        Don Eligio, whose only daughter died giving birth, is survived by five granddaughters and many great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren.
      