
        John Philip Paynter, who became a leading authority on marching and concert bands in 43 years as director of bands at Northwestern University near Chicago,  died last Sunday in Glenview Hospital at the age of 67. A resident of Glenview,  Ill., he had been admitted on Jan. 23 after suffering a stroke.
        Named for John Philip Sousa, Professor Paynter was a professor at Northwestern's School of Music, where he taught band music arranging and conducting to thousands of students. He had intended to retire at the end of the year, the 70th anniversary of his Wildcat Marching Band.
        Since 1956, Professor Paynter had also been the conductor of the 115-piece Northshore Concert Band, which he led in a repertory that ranged from standard polkas to modern composers like Paul Hindemith and Darius Milhaud.
        Professor Paynter was a stickler for sonority. "Any fool can play loud," he insisted. "It takes a good musician to play soft."
        His avocation was proselytizing for an American tradition, community bands of music teachers, dentists, bankers, sales clerks and other adults, and he helped  organize dozens of such bands around the country. "The bands were there years ago but disappeared during the World War II years," he said. "Then came television."
        Professor Paynter was born in Mineral Point, Wis. His father played in amateur bands, admired Sousa and saw to it that his son received music training  early on. He earned a master's degree in theory and composition at the School of Music at Northwestern, in Evanston. At age 23, in 1951, he was appointed to the faculty full time as director of the marching band, assistant director of bands and an instructor of theory. Two years later, he became director of bands.
        Last month struck a sentimental note for Professor Paynter when the Northwestern football squad played in the Rose Bowl in Pasadena for the first time since 1949, when he had been with the Wildcats as an advance man and a student member of the band.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Marietta Morgan Paynter; a son, Bruce, of Glenview; a daughter, Megan Anderson of Lake Forest, Ill., and four grandchildren.
      