
        Julian W. Hill, a research chemist whose accidental discovery of a tough, taffy-like compound revolutionized everyday life after it proved its worth in warfare and courtship, died on Sunday in Hockessin, Del. He was 91.
        Dr. Hill died at the Cokesbury Village retirement community, where he had lived in recent years with his wife of 62 years, Polly.
        In the late 1920's, Dr. Hill was a member of a Du Pont Company team studying the behavior of certain molecules that chain together to form larger ones, called polymers. The chemists were engaged in pure research, though finding a substitute for silk was in the back of their minds.
        In 1930, while trying to create ever-larger structures by adjusting the amount of water in a batch of carbon- and alcohol-based molecules, the team came up with a concoction that Du Pont's research head, Wallace H. Carothers, thought useless.
        But Dr. Hill was intrigued after sticking a heated glass rod into a beaker containing the material and finding that it stretched and pulled, like taffy, and that it became silky when stretched at room temperature. Soon, Dr. Hill and  his colleagues were playing with the material in the corridor, and finding that  it could be shaped into strands that were remarkably long and strong.
        The substance, of course, was nylon, although it would not be so named until  it was introduced at the 1939 World's Fair in New York.
        "I tell my wife I was something better than a good scientist," Dr. Hill recalled in an interview years later. "I was lucky."
        Because Du Pont held the patents to nylon, Dr. Hill made no great fortune off the discovery, but his wife said yesterday that the company had treated him well over the years.
        (A sad footnote is the fate of Dr. Carothers. Beset by personal problems that fueled depression, thinking himself a failure despite a brilliant career, he committed suicide in 1937 at the age of 41.)
        If the development of nylon was in part serendipity, it was not a total surprise. Almost a decade earlier, at an American Chemical Society conference in Buffalo, Dr. Hill and Dr. Carothers reported on progress in developing "artificial silks" like rayon, which was then coming into use.
        But rayon is derived from cellulose, and in that sense is not strictly synthetic, as is nylon. Nylon was used initially for toothbrush bristles, fishing line and surgical sutures. Nylon stockings were first sold in 1939. They cost twice what silk stockings did, and women were happy to pay. Nylon stockings were sheer and strong.
        The material was deemed so essential that its use was restricted to the military after the United States entered World War II. Nylon was used to make rope, tents, aircraft tires and parachutes.
        It also served to improve British-American relations, in a way. Young American soldiers stationed in Britain made good impressions on their dates by giving them nylon stockings, available from the military's post exchanges when they could not be bought elsewhere.
        The reintroduction of nylon to civilian life after the war caused a sensation, and at least one stampede. A crowd of 10,000 people jammed a San Francisco department store in 1945, causing the nylon sale to be called off.
        In the decades since, nylon has become ubiquitous, as carpeting and clothing. And about two-thirds of all the luggage manufactured in the world is made from it.
        Scientists consider nylon a benign product of technology, because it has not  been found to have any deadly side effects. But Dr. Hill, who loved wildlife and was a dedicated bird-watcher, said in a 1988 interview that he thought "the human race is going to perish by being smothered in plastic."
        Julian Werner Hill was born in St. Louis, graduated from Washington University there in 1924 and earned a doctorate in organic chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1928.
        Dr. Hill played the violin and was an accomplished squash player and figure-skater until his early 40's, when an attack of polio weakened one leg, his wife said.
        Before his retirement from Du Pont in 1964, Dr. Hill supervised the company's program of aid to universities for research in physics and chemistry.
        Surviving besides his wife are a daughter, Louisa Spottswood of Philadelphia; two sons, Joseph, of Villanova, Pa., and Jefferson, of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      