
        Percy Zell Michener, a master builder whose crowning achievement in 40 years  as a civil engineer was the 18-mile-long Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel, died on Feb. 2 in Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona. He was 92 and lived in Scottsdale.
        Mr. Michener was the chief engineer and project manager of the marine project, which consists of two tunnels and a span of trestled bridges from Norfolk, Va., to the southern tip of Virginia's Eastern Shore. The bridge-tunnel invigorated the economy of the entire Delaware-Maryland-Virginia peninsula and saved drivers considerable time. It also allowed unrestricted ship traffic into  Hampton Roads, one of the world's premier harbors.
        Mr. Michener oversaw the $200 million project for nine years from its conception to opening day on April 15, 1964, when it replaced ferry service. He  was the one who made the decisions from the moment his concern, Sverdrup & Parcel, consulting engineers of St. Louis, sent him from its Washington office in 1954 to see whether the crossing could pay for itself.
        Starting without enough money to buy a pile driver, he ordered surveys of road traffic, ocean currents and the bay bottom, learned about Tidewater politics and bond sales, and got construction under way in 1960. He coordinated  the efforts of five subcontractors and finished the job just six months behind his original timetable.
        The American Society of Civil Engineers hailed the bridge-tunnel as a wonder  of modern engineering on par with the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge in New York, the Mont Blanc tunnel in the Alps and the system of dams that protects much of the Netherlands from the sea.
        Mr. Michener said he liked all kinds of bridges, "steel, concrete, vertical lift, bascule, high-level, low-level, long-span continuous -- you name it." Why  he was so attracted to bridge-building? "Why does a boy like an Erector set?" he said.
        Mr. Michener was born in Alexandria, Ind., and graduated from the University  of Illinois School of Engineering. After 15 years with the Illinois Department of Bridges, he was commissioned into the Army Corps of Engineers at the start of World War II. He supervised the construction of the 1,500-mile Canol Pipeline from Edmonton, Alberta, to Fairbanks, Alaska, and led the rebuilding of Manila Harbor.
        After the war, he was hired as a vice president at Sverdrup & Parcel by his superior in the Corps of Engineers, Maj. Gen. Lief J. Sverdrup, a founder of the firm. Mr. Michener retired in 1965.
        He is survived by a son, Dr. William Michener of Cleveland; two grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      