
        Thomas Everett Harris, a veteran labor lawyer who was one of the original members of the Federal Election Commission and served as its chairman, died on Tuesday in Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 83 and lived in Alexandria.
        The cause was brain injuries from a fall in his house, his family said.
        Mr. Harris served as a Democrat on the bipartisan election commission from 1975 until his retirement in 1986. The commission, whose six members are appointed by Congress and the President, has exclusive jurisdiction over monitoring and enforcing campaign finance laws and reporting on campaign finance activities.
        Some laws regarding political contributions and disclosure were on the books  when the commission was created in the 1970's, but enforcement was lax.
        When Mr. Harris was nominated for the commission, he was an associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. He was assistant general counsel for the Congress of Industrial Organizations, or C.I.O., before it merged with the American Federation of Labor, or A.F.L.
        When the Federal Election Commission was formed, Mr. Harris was the only member with a solid background in campaign finance laws. His labor experience did not sit well with the National Right to Work Committee, which lobbied against his reappointment, but he went on to serve terms as vice chairman and chairman of the commission.
        A native of Little Rock, Ark., Mr. Harris graduated from the University of Arkansas in 1932 and from Columbia University Law School in 1935. He clerked for Justice Harlan Fiske Stone of the United States Supreme Court and, apart from short stints in private practice, subsequently did legal work for the Justice Department, the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Office of Price Administration, the Board of Economic Warfare in North Africa, the United States Military Government in Berlin and the Alien Property Division in Washington.
        He started his career in labor law in 1948 as assistant counsel for the C.I.O. He was chosen for the post by Arthur J. Goldberg, then the organization's general counsel and later a Supreme Court Justice.
        Mr. Harris is survived by his wife of 52 years, Margaret Samson Harris; their son, Thomas E., of Durango, Colo.; a son from an earlier marriage, Marvin B., of Doniphan, Mo., and two grandchildren.
      