
        Isaiah Kehinde (I. K.) Dairo, a Nigerian musician who was an important innovator in juju music, died on Wednesday in Efon-Alaiye, Nigeria, where he lived. He was 65.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said Chris Waterman, the author of "Juju" (University of Chicago Press, 1990), who worked with Mr. Dairo.
        Mr. Dairo took juju music -- Nigerian pop built on Yoruba drumming -- and added new rhythms and instrumentation to reach a broader audience. He played accordion and talking drum, both of which he introduced to juju, as well as guitar. Through his group, the Blue Spots, juju became an intricate mixture of traditional Yoruba songs and praise poetry, African and Latin-American rhythms and Christian hymns. In a five-decade career, Mr. Dairo made hundreds of albums  and toured the world as one of Africa's first international stars. He said that  songs often came to him at night, in dreams, borne upon the wind and the wings of angels.
        Mr. Dairo was born in 1930 in Offa, in the state of Kwara, and was educated there at a missionary school. He joined his first juju band in 1942. Through the 1940's, he was a part-time musician while supporting himself as a cloth seller and laborer; he worked for a time with an early juju band leader, Ojoge Daniel.
        He formed his own band, the 10-piece Morning Star Orchestra, in 1956, changing its name to the Blue Spots in 1959. While adding new elements to juju,  he also incorporated traditional songs and rhythms from various Yoruba subgroups, reaffirming the music's roots, while his arrangements reshaped the music to work within the three-minute limit of early recordings. When Nigeria gained its independence from Britain in 1960, Mr. Dairo's music embodied the nation's cultural autonomy.
        In 1963, Mr. Dairo was made a Member of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth. Through the 1960's he was overwhelmingly popular in Nigeria, providing a model for such younger juju musicians as Ebenezer Obey and King Sunny Ade. His audience continued to grow in the 1970's and 80's, as he toured internationally. Working for musicians' welfare, he helped to found the Musical  Copyright Society of Nigeria and was a president of the Nigerian chapter of the  Performing Rights Society.
        He was also the leader of a syncretic Christian movement in Lagos, Nigeria's  capital, where his Seraphim and Cherubim Church stands on I. K. Dairo Street. In 1994 and 1995, Mr. Dairo was a member of the ethnomusicology faculty at the University of Washington in Seattle.
        He is survived by his brothers Michael, Sunday and Sola and a large extended  family, including three wives and 24 children.
      