
        Louis L. Ward, a businessman who built Russell Stover Candies Inc. into the nation's largest manufacturer and distributor of gift-packaged candy, died on Saturday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 76.
        Mr. Ward retired as president and chairman of Russell Stover Candies after a  stroke three years ago. He died of complications from that illness, said his son Thomas S. Ward.
        Thomas and his brother, Scott H. Ward, succeeded their father, becoming co-presidents of the family-owned business, which as a private company does not  publish its financial results. Russell Stover Candies is based in Kansas City and has 50 retail stores, 5 factories and 6,000 employees.
        The elder Mr. Ward guarded his privacy and objected to being put on lists of  the richest Americans. "I think that sort of thing is wrong in America," he said in 1983. "I feel that lists such as this don't serve any worthwhile purpose."
        But that did not stop Forbes magazine from estimating Mr. Ward's fortune at $500 million last year.
        After serving in the Navy in World War II, Mr. Ward, who was born in Lenora,  Kan., bought a small Kansas City factory that made paper boxes in 1950. Russell  Stover Candies became an important customer, and he and a partner bought the candy company for $7.5 million in 1960. By 1981, annual sales were $140 million; by one estimate, sales are now in excess of $300 million.
        Three years ago, Russell Stover Candies added Whitman's Chocolate and related assets, which it bought from Pet Inc. for $35 million.
        Relatives said Mr. Ward's passions were his business and the University of Kansas basketball team. After a year at the University of Kansas, Mr. Ward received a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Stanford University in 1941. The Ward family has made substantial donations to the university and to the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City.
        Besides his sons, both of Kansas City, Mr. Ward is survived by his wife, Adelaide; a daughter, Linda Ward O'Hara of St. Louis, and six grandchildren.
      