
        Dr. S. Ward Casscells, who helped revolutionize sports medicine as a pioneer  in arthroscopic surgery, died on Thursday at the home of a son in Houston. He was 80.
        The cause of death was leukemia, according to the son, Dr. S. Ward Casscells  3d, a professor of medicine and chief of cardiology at the University of Texas Medical School and Herman Hospital.
        In addition to his research in arthroscopic surgery, which led to his publication in 1971 of the first paper on the topic, Dr. Casscells trained many  of the first generation of orthopedists to use the minimally invasive surgical technique. He also helped establish its use at the Johns Hopkins, Yale, Massachusetts General and Brigham and Women's Hospitals.
        Arthroscopy, performed with a pencil-thin telescopic instrument inserted into the capsule of the knee joint through a quarter-inch incision, enables many athletes -- from amateurs to world-class performers -- not only to overcome injuries that once might have ended their careers but also to return to action more quickly than after open surgery.
        Through a fiberoptically lighted scope, a surgeon can examine the tissues inside the joint -- cartilage, ligaments, tendons, bones and the membranes that  secrete lubricating fluids and can make repairs through tiny incisions.
        Dr. Casscells was also the founding editor of the journal Arthroscopy, a founding member of the International Arthroscopy Association and the Arthroscopy Association of North America and the writer of the first text on the subject, "Arthroscopy," published in 1977, as well as "Arthroscopy: Diagnostic and Surgical Practice," published in 1984.
        In 1994, when Dr. Casscells was honored by his alma mater, the University of  Virginia, President George Bush sent him a commendation that said: "Your development of arthroscopy pioneered a new surgical science that has helped doctors to treat thousands of patients with fewer invasive procedures and far greater precision and success."
        But in 1986, when some 600,000 arthroscopic procedures were being performed annually in the United States, Dr. Casscells warned that the technique, which seemed miraculous, was "more risky than most people realize," even sometimes more hazardous than open-knee surgery because tissues may be harder to manipulate through the tiny scope.
        Dr. Casscells, who was elected to the American Orthopedic Association in 1975, practiced orthopedics in Wilmington, Del., until 1986 and served as clinical professor of orthopedic surgery at Thomas Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia. In 1991, the University of Virginia established the S. Ward Casscells Professorship of Orthopedics Surgery in his honor.
        The son of a prominent financier, S. Ward Casscells, Samuel Ward Casscells was born in Manhattan. His father died when he was 5, and his mother, the former Margaret Hafslund, died when he was 17, leaving him to support two younger children.
        He not only did so, but worked his way through the University of Virginia, earning his medical degree in 1939. A captain during World War II, Dr. Casscells served as a trauma surgeon to Gen. George S. Patton's forces in North Africa and Italy and received six battle stars.
        After the war, Dr. Casscells completed his orthopedic surgical training at the University of Virginia, where he met Oleda Dyson, a law student, whom he married after her graduation in 1949.
        They moved to Wilmington, Del., where Dr. Casscells joined the Alfred I. duPont Institute for Crippled Children, where he taught for many years. Besides  maintaining his private practice, he served as chief of the Orthopedic Surgery Service at the Wilmington General and Memorial Hospitals.
        In addition to his wife of 47 years, who lives in West Palm Beach, Fla., and  his son Ward 3d, Dr. Casscells is survived by his son Dr. Christopher Dyson Casscells of Wilmington, Del.; two daughters, Rhea E. Anne Casscells of San Francisco and Margaret Casscells-Hamby of Longwood, Fla., a sister, Elise Casscells Palma of Fairfield, Iowa, and seven grandchildren.
      