
        Charlie Conerly, the quarterback who led the New York Giants to the 1956 National Football League championship and held virtually all of the club's career passing records until Phil Simms surpassed them, died yesterday in Methodist Hospital in Memphis. He was 74.
        Conerly, who lived in Clarksdale, Miss., not far from Memphis, died of heart  failure after a long illness, according to his wife, Perian. He had been hospitalized since Sept. 19, his birthday, when he underwent triple-bypass heart surgery.
        With silver-streaked black hair and a ruggedly handsome face that would later be seen in the "Marlboro man" cigarette advertisements, Conerly was the quiet leader of the Giant team that popularized pro football in New York in 1956 with an 8-3-1 record and a 47-7 rout of the Chicago Bears in the N.F.L. championship game at Yankee Stadium.
        "The next year, the Giants had a sellout every game because of what we did in 1956," Frank Gifford, a teammate, once said. "Charlie was the biggest reason for that."
        Conerly, Gifford, Ky'e Rote, Alex Webster, Roosevelt Brown, Andy Robustelli,  Sam Huff, Emlen Tunnell, Jim Patton and Pat Summerall were suddenly the toast of New York football fans.
        Those Giant teams also finished first in the Eastern Conference in 1958 and 1959 before losing both championship games to the Baltimore Colts.
        In the 1958 title game, Conerly collaborated with Gifford on a 15-yard touchdown pass for a 17-14 lead late in the fourth quarter. But the Colts forced overtime on Johnny Unitas's passes to Raymond Berry that positioned Steve Myhra's tying 17-yard field goal, then won on Alan Ameche's 1-yard touchdown in  in what some people still consider to be pro football's most historic game.
        "The Colts had a great team," Conerly would say years later. "I don't think we were as good as them, but it was a letdown to lose."
        In 1959, Conerly, then 38 years old, was the N.F.L.'s top-ranked passer, but  the Giants lost the title game in Baltimore, 31-16. At age 40 in 1961, his final season, he was the backup to Y. A. Tittle, the bald quarterback who had been obtained from the San Francisco 49ers shortly before the season opened.
        "I went to Charlie four times that year," recalled Allie Sherman, then the Giants' coach. "He brought us home each time."
        During his 14 seasons, Conerly established Giants records for career touchdown passes (173), completions (1,418), passing yardage (19,488) and attempts (2,833). The only Giants record he still holds is one he would prefer not to have: most career interceptions, 167. But if quarterback sacks were recorded in his early seasons when the Giants seldom had good teams, he might hold the N.F.L. record for being tackled while attempting to pass.
        In a 14-10 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles at the Polo Grounds in 1952, The Philadelphia Daily News reported that Conerly had been sacked 17 times. As the Giants struggled to a 3-9 record in 1953, some Giants fans waved banners reading "Goodbye, Charlie," and "Get a New Quarterback." But in 1954 the Giants had a new coach, Jim Lee Howell, who hired Vince Lombardi from the Army staff for the  job of what is now considered to be offensive coordinator.
        "Lombardi put in a different offense," Conerly said. "And we got some better  players."
        After having served in the invasion of Guam as a Marine corporal during World War II, Conerly was an all-America single-wing tailback at the University of Mississippi. When he joined the Giants in 1948, he was converped into a T-formation quarterback.
        "Charlie is the best player who is not in the Pro Football Hall of Fame," Wel'ington Mara, the Giants' co-owner, has often said. "He has better numbers than some quarterbacks who are there."
        Conerly, whose No. 42 was retired by the Giants in 1962, owned a chain of shoe stores in Mississippi, but he occasionally returned to New York to attend the annual dinner of the College Football Hall of Fame, of which he was a member, and to attend Giants games.
        He is survived by his wife and two sisters, Ruth Meredith and Ray Steele.
      