
        The Rev. Bruno Hussar, the founder of Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam, a community in Israel dedicated to improving understanding between Arabs and Jews, died on Feb. 8 in the French Hospice in Jerusalem after a brief illness. He was 84.
        Father Hussar began Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam, which means Oasis of Peace in Hebrew and Arabic, in 1973 on 100 barren, hilly acres with high hopes but without water or shade trees. His own initial abode was a huge packing crate that had brought the belongings of an American immigrant family.
        He had persuaded the head of a nearby Trappist monastery to lease him the desolate tract for 100 years at a rent of 25 cents a year. "We managed to pay it all in advance," he told a reporter in 1981.
        It being a rather unaccustomed undertaking, the settlement, halfway between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, did not receive the Government assistance normally given to a new kibbutz, or Jewish settlement. In fact, it first attracted mostly young hippies from Europe, much to Father Hussar's dismay.
        But the first Jewish family eventually arrived in 1976, and financial assistance from Europe and the United States turned it into a real village and an educational center where young people from Jewish and Arab schools discovered a bridge to better understanding.
        Its youth hostel and guest house have received more than 15,000 high school students from across Israel for four-day workshops known as the School for Peace. One hundred Arab and Jewish students attend the primary school daily. A third of them are residents of Neve Shalom; the others come from neighboring communities by bus.
        Sharon Burde, executive director of the American Friends of Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam in New York, said recent steps toward reconciliation between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization had enhanced the village's role as a meeting ground for plain folks willing to talk things out in a congenial atmosphere.
        "When Jews and Arabs get together, work together, live together, they create  their own miracle," said Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize winner. "Neve Shalom/Wahat al-Salam is such a miracle. It deserves our warmest support, for it justifies our highest hopes."
        Bruno Hussar was born in Egypt, the son of a Hungarian father and a French mother, both of them secular Jews. He was ordained a Dominican priest in France  in 1945. He moved to Israel in 1953 and became a citizen in 1966. He considered  himself both a Christian and a Jew.
        He attended Vatican II, the Ecumenical Council of the early 1960's, where he  helped shape the treatise that led to improved relations between Christians and  Jews. He served as an adviser to the Israeli delegation to the United Nations after the 1967 Middle East War, and founded the House of Isaiah, Center for the  Study of Judeo-Christian Relations, in Jerusalem.
        Father Hussar is survived by a sister, Denise Taranto of Paris.
      