
        Peter P. Muirhead, an educator who helped shape and administer groundbreaking Federal legislation on education, died on Monday at his winter home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mr. Muirhead began his career as a teacher in Avon, N.Y., and went on to the  United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, where he was an official from 1957 until 1974, leaving as the Deputy Commissioner of Education.  He was in charge of legislation that opened college doors to young people who otherwise would never have had the advantages of a higher education.
        He was an architect of the National Defense Education Act of 1958, under which the Federal Government for the first time supported the principle that it  should contribute to higher education by making loans and grants available to universities and their students.
        He also administered the Higher Education Act and the Guaranteed Student Loan Program in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations.
        Peter Parker Muirhead was born in Ayr, near Glasgow, and was brought to this  country at the age of 14.
        He graduated from the State University of New York at Geneseo-Albany and earned a master's degree at the University of Rochester. After teaching in Avon, he was a supervising principal in Henrietta High School, outside Rochester.
        In 1944 he joined the New York State Department of Education as director of the Bureau of Examinations and Testing. In that post he oversaw the State Board  of Regents' scholarship and student loan programs.
        After he left the Government he taught at George Washington University for several years. He retired in 1984 as a consultant on urban-school management for the Ford Foundation.
        Throughout his life, he was a firm believer in equal access to education. "Only in America, with its boundless educational opportunities," he said, "could an immigrant lad move from a high-school history teacher to U.S. Deputy Commissioner of Education."
        Mr. Muirhead is survived by a daughter, Margaret M. Tyler of Toledo, Ohio; a  son, David N. of Miami; 6 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren. His wife of 58 years, Kathryn Waterman Muirhead, died in 1991.
      