
        Wally Findlay, an art dealer to socially prominent collectors in New York City, Palm Beach, Chicago and Paris, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92.
        Mr. Findlay, whose full name was Walstein Chester Findlay Jr., was born in 1903 in Kansas City, Mo., the son and grandson of art dealers. His grandfather William Wadsworth Findlay founded Findlay Galleries there in 1870, selling art supplies, picture frames and some paintings. His son expanded the business to include the paintings and sculpture of such Western artists as Frederic Remington and Charles Russell.
        In the mid-1920's Wally Findlay left the University of Missouri in Columbia  and joined the family in the gallery. In 1932 he moved to Chicago and opened his own Findlay Galleries, stocking art, silver and picture frames.
        In 1961 Mr. Findlay added a second gallery in Palm Beach, where President John F. Kennedy planned to have a Winter White House. In 1963 he opened the Findlay Galleries on East 57th Street in Manhattan, which became the opulent setting for flamboyant openings for socially prominent artists. In addition to selling the works of Impressionist, Post-Impressionist and modern artists, Mr. Findlay handled the wall-size flower paintings of Jane Pickens Langley, who would marry Walter Hoving, president of Tiffany & Company. He also represented Marylou Whitney, who did primitive paintings, and her husband Cornelius Vanderbilt (Sonny) Whitney, who painted big hunting scenes.
        After a legal dispute with his brother David and younger Findlays over the use of the name Findlay Galleries, Mr. Findlay changed its name to the Wally Findlay Galleries. (Three other family members operate their own galleries in Manhattan).
        In the 1970's he also ran galleries in Beverly Hills, Calif., and in Tokyo. He franchised his operations in 1980, but the franchise defaulted in 1984 and Mr. Findlay bought back the business.
        Late last year, he sold the East 57th Street building that housed the Wally Findlay Galleries. He recently reopened the gallery on East 60th Street near Madison Avenue.
        No immediate family members survive.
      