
        Brownie McGhee, the blues guitarist and singer who brought fingerpicking Piedmont blues to an international audience, died on Friday at Summit Hospital in Oakland, Calif., where he lived. He was 80.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said a daughter, Vilhelmina.
        In a long-running partnership with the harmonica player Sonny Terry, who died in 1986, Mr. McGhee preserved and popularized the blues style of the Piedmont area of the Carolinas. Piedmont blues meshes bouncy guitar picking and  strumming with rhythmic, hooting harmonica; Mr. McGhee's intricate parts combined bass lines, chords and countermelodies while he sang with earthy conviction.
        He and Terry were major figures in the folk revival of the late 1950's and early 60's, performing everywhere from protest rallies to Broadway. And while Mr. McGhee was best known for Piedmont blues, he also worked in styles from gospel to rhythm-and-blues.
        Walter Brown McGhee was born in 1915 in Knoxville, Tenn., and learned guitar  from his father. He performed in churches, carnivals, medicine shows, minstrel troupes and the Golden Voices Gospel Quartet and as a traveling bluesman.
        He was strongly influenced by Blind Boy Fuller, and made his way to Fuller's  home in Durham, N.C. There he met Terry, who was working on the streets with Fuller, and J. B. Long, the talent scout who had discovered Fuller. Long arranged Mr. McGhee's first recording session, a remake of a Fuller song, in 1940; a year later, when Fuller died, Mr. McGhee recorded "The Death of Blind Boy Fuller," using Fuller's guitar, and was credited as Blind Boy Fuller No. 2.
        Mr. McGhee played his first engagement with Terry in 1942, a civil rights benefit organized by Paul Robeson. After a year apart, they met again in New York in 1944 and made their first recording together. They became a part of the  left-wing New York folk scene of the 1940's, living in the communal house of the Almanac Singers and working as a trio with Woody Guthrie. They also shared a house with Leadbelly for a few years. They recorded, individually and as a duo,  for the Library of Congress and for commercial labels. Mr. McGhee sometimes used the name Spider Sam, Big Tom Collins or Blind Boy Williams.
        When Terry joined the cast of "Finian's Rainbow" in 1947, Mr. McGhee formed a six-piece band, Brownie McGhee and His Mighty Rockers. In 1948, he started a blues school in Harlem. He also worked as a studio musician, backing up Big Maybelle, Champion Jack Dupree and his brother, Stick McGhee, whom he backed on  the 1949 hit song "Drinkin' Wine Spo-dee-o-dee."
        Mr. McGhee and Terry worked together sporadically in the early 1950's, and in 1955 they began a three-year Broadway engagement in Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof." They began a steady recording career as a duo with a 1957 session for Fantasy Records that yielded two albums of blues and one of spirituals. Embraced by the folk audience, the duo became a steady draw on the college and coffeehouse circuit.
        They returned to Broadway in Langston Hughes's "Simply Heaven," but spent most of their time steadily touring the folk circuit in the United States and Europe.
        The duo broke up in the late 1970's, and Mr. McGhee went on to perform with various bands. He appeared on television in an episode of "Family Ties" and in the film "Angel Heart." He wrote and performed the soundtrack for "Buck and the  Preacher." He recently started the Blues Is Truth Foundation in Oakland, which plans to give scholarships to young musicians.
        Mr. McGhee made his last album, "Brownie's Blues," last March with the Elmer  Lee Thomas Blues Revue, his proteges. It was released in Australia.
        In addition to his daughter Vilhelmina, of Oakland, Mr. McGhee is survived by two other daughters, Frances Milligan of South Carolina and Vedia Zella McGhee of Hayward, Calif., and three sons, Joseph Milligan of Oakland; George Walter McGhee of San Francisco, and Colin Che Gunia, who lives in Canada. He is also survived by 16 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
      