
        Lou Rettino, one of the most successful high school football coaches in the country, died of stomach cancer Friday at his home in Westfield, N.J. He was 54.
        Mr. Rettino led Union High School to an unprecedented 10 New Jersey state sectional championships, including one in 1993, the year his illness was diagnosed.
        Two of Mr. Rettino's most prestigious honors came earlier this year, when he was named national coach of the year in 1995 and the top coach of the last decade by the National Interscholastic Coaches Association.
        "We played many games against each other and he won the majority of them, despite the fact that he usually had far less talent than us," said the Elizabeth High School coach, Jerry Moore. "In my mind, he was the best high school football coach in the country."
        Mr. Rettino, a former professional football player who once played for the Green Bay Packers under the legendary coach, Vince Lombardi, had been in and out of hospital since his diagnosis in June 1993, when he collapsed on the sideline  of a New Jersey all-star game at Giants Stadium. He was scheduled to be the head coach of the North team when this year's game, dedicated in his honor, is played on June 29 at Rutgers Stadium. Instead, his son, Louis Jr., will represent him.
        Mr. Rettino amassed 216 victories during his 31-year career at schools in Hudson, Somerset and Union counties, the 10th highest total in New Jersey history. His overall record was 216-56-6. His record at Union was 171 victories, 23 losses and 5 ties, and 7-2 in his last season.
        When he was first hospitalized in 1993, Mr. Rettino missed two games before coming back to lead the Farmers to an undefeated season (11-0) and the state championship. While he was out, he still watched practice film from his hospital bed.
        Members of the Union team showed up at his house in Westfield after he missed the first game. "I asked them to stop by if we won," he said at the time. "So when I turned the corner and saw those two yellow buses parked on the side of the street, I knew that we won. All the kids piled out onto the lawn. It was really a memorable moment."
        A member of the Villanova (Pa.) University Hall of Fame, he was drafted as a  linebacker by the Packers in 1963. He also played briefly with the Baltimore Colts before a knee injury ended his career with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. Before taking over as coach at Union in 1977, Mr. Rettino worked at his high school alma mater, St. Peter's Prep in Jersey City, and also coached at Marist in Bayonne, Memorial in West New York, Somerville and Elizabeth.
        As a player, he was a member of four state-championship teams at St. Peter's  Prep from 1955-58.
        It did not take Mr. Rettino long to turn Union's program into a national power, and the school won its first title under him in 1978. In addition, the Farmers finished in the top six nationally on six occasions in the USA Today ranking. His program produced more than 40 Division I college players.
        "He had an inner strength that willed victory and it transcended to his players," said Fred Stengel, who served as Mr. Rettino's assistant before becoming Bergen Catholic's head coach in 1988. "I learned more from him in 11 years than I would in a lifetime with anyone else."
        In addition to his son, Louis Jr., 24, Mr. Rettino is survived by his wife of 32 years, Elvira, and two daughters, Susan Rettino, 29, and Tracey Mochmal, 27.
      