
        Shin Kanemaru, the disgraced kingmaker who epitomized a corrupt back-room style of Japanese politics that many Japanese hope is now ending, died this morning at his home in Shiranecho, northwest of Tokyo. He was 81 and succumbed to a stroke stemming from diabetes, his family said.
        Mr. Kanemaru held no title higher than Deputy Prime Minister and vice president of the Liberal Democratic Party, which governed Japan for most of the  period since World War II. But until his downfall for accepting bribes a few years ago, he was considered Japan's most powerful politician, effectively able  to anoint and dismiss prime ministers.
        Public revulsion at disclosures that he had amassed a fortune from illicit political donations brought the Liberal Democrats' fall from power in 1993 after 38 years in office and set off a realignment of Japanese politics that is still  under way.
        Particularly shocking was that investigators raided Mr. Kanemaru's home and office and found hundreds of pounds of gold bars and about $50 million in cash and securities.
        Mr. Kanemaru resigned from his party post and from Parliament in 1992 after admitting that he had accepted about $4 million in bribes from a trucking company. He was indicted in March 1993 for evading millions of dollars of taxes  from the donations. But his trial was suspended this month, apparently because of his declining health; he was almost blind from diabetes.
        Koichi Kato, secretary general of the Liberal Democratic Party, said today that Mr. Kanemaru "influenced Japanese politics in the last four or five years,  both in a positive and negative way." Former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone said, "We lost an influential politician who supported Japanese politics after the war."
        Mr. Kanemaru was born in Suwa Village, northwest of Tokyo, in 1914. The eldest son of a wealthy sake-brewing family, he served as a sergeant in Manchuria in World War II, then achieved success in his liquor, concrete and souvenir businesses.
        He entered Parliament in 1958 and was a close aide to the father of Japanese  patronage politics, Kakuei Tanaka, who resigned as Japan's Prime Minister in 1974 because of financial scandals. Mr. Tanaka was later convicted of having accepted bribes from the Lockheed Corporation, and in died in 1993.
        Japan's current Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, and his chief political rival, Ichiro Ozawa -- both of whom now cast themselves as reformers -- belonged to the same party faction. Mr. Ozawa in particular was a protege of Mr. Kanemaru.  "I myself was very much taken care of and guided by him," Mr. Ozawa said today.
        Mr. Kanemaru was considered a staunch supporter of the United States, so Washington would sometimes seek help from him in reaching trade agreements. He recalled in an interview a few years ago that in 1960, when anti-American feeling was strong in Japan, he carried the Speaker of the House of Representatives to his seat to insure approval of a security treaty with the United States.
        He is survived by three sons, Yasunobu, Shingo and Yoshimune, and seven grandchildren. He was married twice but both wives died before him.
      