
        Colin S. Pittendrigh, one of the first scientists to perceive that "biological clocks" had a lot to do with the stress felt by jet travelers and the crankiness of night-shift workers, died on March 19 at his home in Bozeman,  Mont. He was 77.
        Dr. Pittendrigh died of cancer, according to officials at Stanford University, which announced the death this week. Dr. Pittendrigh had been an emeritus professor of biology.
        His earliest work on the internal rhythms that tell a creature when to eat and sleep, when to be alert and when to secrete hormones was done with clams, insects and laboratory animals.
        In the late 1950's, when jet travel was about to become routine and the first tiny satellites foreshadowed human space flight, Dr. Pittendrigh saw that his findings might have enormous importance. He was one of the first to notice that  exposure to artificial light could help humans adjust to an environment apart from the earth's dawn-to-dusk pattern, and that this could be helpful for a space traveler or someone working from midnight to 7 A.M.
        Dr. Pittendrigh (pronounced PIT-ten-dree) was born in Whitley Bay, England, and received a science degree from the University of Durham in 1940. In 1942, he received an advanced degree at Imperial College in Trinidad, where he worked for the Rockefeller Foundation and the Government of Trinidad to devise ways to control malaria-bearing mosquitoes near military bases. Dr. Pittendrigh later wrote numerous scientific papers on malaria, as well as a biology textbook.
        Dr. Pittendrigh received his doctorate from Columbia University in 1948, a year after joining the faculty of Princeton University as an assistant professor of biology, and he became a United States citizen in 1950.
        He was an adviser to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and headed a 1964 study, "Biology and the Exploration of Mars," by the National Academy of Sciences. A fellow of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, he served as president of the American Society of Naturalists and vice president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        After serving as dean of graduate studies at Princeton from 1965 to 1969, Dr. Pittendrigh joined the faculty of Stanford, where he helped to establish an undergraduate major in human biology.
        "He cared about teaching, particularly the teaching of undergraduates, at the same time he was doing marvelous science," said Donald Kennedy, emeritus president of Stanford.
        From 1976 to 1984, Dr. Pittendrigh was director of the Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford's laboratory for the study of marine life.
        He retired from Stanford in 1984 and made his home in Bozeman because he had  come to love the Rocky Mountain high country and fly fishing in Montana's rivers.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Margaret Eitenbach of Cliffside Park, N.J.; a son, Colin Jr., of Bozeman; a daughter, Robin Rourk of Louisville, Colo., a grandson and a granddaughter.
      