
        Bill Goldsworthy, an original member of the Minnesota North Stars and a five-time National Hockey League All-Star, died this morning of complications from AIDS. He was 51.
        Goldsworthy, who disclosed last year that he had the disease, was hospitalized last Thursday.
        He was a fun-loving guy, unpredictable," said Lou Nanne, who played with Goldsworthy and was later a coach and general manager of the North Stars. "We always used to say, 'Goldy's just being Goldy.' That's just the way he was. You  never knew what he was going to do or say. He was a very warm person, a good friend."
        Goldsworthy played 14 seasons in the N.H.L. with the North Stars, the Boston  Bruins and the Rangers. His H.I.V. infection was diagnosed in November 1994, and he told The St.  Paul Pioneer Press in February 1995 that it stemmed from drinking and promiscuity.
        "There's a stigma that comes with AIDS that makes you think it's something that only happens in the homosexual community and to drug abusers who use dirty  needles," Goldsworthy said. "It's more than that."
        Goldsworthy was coaching the San Antonio Iguanas of the Central Hockey League when he was hospitalized on Nov. 11, 1994. He had been feeling ill for two months, and was fighting pneumonia when blood clots moved from his legs to his lungs.
        "When the doctor came into my room on Monday I expected him to talk to me about blood clots and how we were going to take care of that problem," Goldsworthy told The Pioneer Press last year. "I felt awful, but I found out I could feel worse. Instead of talking about blood clots, he told me I had the H.I.V. virus, that I had AIDS.
        "I said, 'Whoa! You've got the wrong guy. You've gotta be kidding. There must be a mistake.' There was no mistake."
        Goldsworthy's N.H.L. career began with the Bruins in 1964. He played with the North Stars from their expansion season of 1967 until 1977, and ended his career with the Rangers in 1978.
        Goldsworthy scored 267 goals with the North Stars, becoming the first N.H.L.  player from an expansion team to top 250 goals. His No. 8 jersey was retired by  the North Stars on Feb. 15, 1992, just over a year before the team moved to Dallas.
      