
        Samuel Schoenbaum, a scholar who helped stitch together a picture of Shakespeare's life by sifting records and documents gathering dust in Stratford-on-Avon and other English archives, died on Wednesday at George Washington Hospital in Washington. He was 69 and lived within walking distance of the Folger Shakespeare Library on Capitol Hill, where he drew his inspiration.
        The cause was prostate cancer and multiple sclerosis, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. Schoenbaum was the director of the Center for Renaissance  and Baroque Studies at the University of Maryland. In 1993, he retired as distinguished professor emeritus of Renaissance literature in the English department on the College Park campus.
        He joined the faculty in 1976 after a brief stint as distinguished professor  of English at the City University of New York. He had also taught at Northwestern University, from 1953, when he received his doctorate at Columbia University, until 1975.
        Dr. Schoenbaum, who lectured worldwide, regarded himself as an archival sleuth. He managed to uncover previously unrecorded manuscripts and biographical records pertaining not only to Shakespeare but also to other writers, including  Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth.
        He was the author of the award-winning "Shakespeare's Lives" (1970) and "William Shakespeare: A Documentary Life" (1975). Both books laid to rest some accepted myths and fantasies about the playwright and actor and his Globe Theater.
        Other books included "Shakespeare: The Globe and the World" (1979) and "Middleton's Tragedies: A Critical Study" (1970). He also wrote many scholarly articles and was the founding editor of Renaissance Drama, a journal published by Northwestern University.
        He was born in Manhattan, and graduated from Brooklyn College. He received his master's and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University. He was a past trustee of the Folger Library and the American consultant for the Oxford University Shakespeare Project.
        For Dr. Schoenbaum, his favorite playwright was the only one from the distant past who remains universally popular. "You can't say that about the Greeks or Racine, or even Moliere," he insisted.
        Dr. Schoenbaum is survived by his wife, Marilyn Turk Schoenbaum, and a brother, Bernard Schoenbaum of Hicksville, L.I., a cartoonist for The New Yorker.
      