
        John Cardinal Krol, who headed the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Philadelphia for 27 years and was a pivotal figure in the American church, died early yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 85.
        He was hospitalized on Feb. 14 for fluid in his lungs attributed to diabetes-related kidney problems. Doctors sent him home on Saturday, saying he was unlikely to recover.
        The Cardinal, who retired as Archbishop in 1988, was an outspoken defender of traditional theology, hierarchical authority and strict church discipline. Combining those conservative views with managerial skill, he became a prominent  figure in American Catholicism in the two decades after the Second Vatican Council, which revised many Catholic practices.
        Appointed Archbishop of Philadelphia by Pope John XXIII in February 1961, he  stood out among American prelates at the Council, held from 1962 to 1965. He served as a permanent under secretary and a member of the central coordinating committee during the Council. But after Pope Paul VI elevated him to Cardinal in June 1967, he soon joined those alarmed by the pressures for change that Vatican II produced.
        In the years after the historic meeting, Cardinal Krol chastised Catholics who questioned church authority. He spoke harshly of priests who left the priesthood. He referred to the church's condemnation of contraception, reaffirmed by Pope Paul VI in 1968, as "divine law."
        He also opposed many of the small accommodations or options in church discipline that gained favor after Vatican II: looser regulations governing marriages between Catholics and non-Catholics, the reception of Communion in the hand and attending Mass on Saturday evening instead of Sunday.
        Cardinal Krol's conservatism did not keep him from voicing strong criticism of the nuclear arms race. In 1979, his Congressional testimony backing talks on  limiting strategic arms foreshadowed an appeal in a pastoral letter by American  bishops for nuclear disarmament in 1983.
        At the high tide of the nuclear freeze movement in 1982, Cardinal Krol told 15,000 demonstrators at a Philadelphia rally that it was time for governments "to dismantle existing nuclear weapons." He later acknowledged that his belief in gradual and reciprocal disarmament, with strong safeguards against cheating,  was probably not shared by all the demonstrators.
        Always a staunch supporter of the Roman Catholic school system, he defended it against criticism from within and repeatedly sought government aid to relieve what he saw as an unfair financial burden on families that chose to send their children to parochial schools.
        He was publicly identified with the Republican Party, accompanying President  Richard M. Nixon to the rostrum when Mr. Nixon pledged to aid private and parochial schools at an April 1972 meeting of Catholic educators.
        In 1984, Cardinal Krol appeared with President Ronald Reagan at a campaign rally at a Catholic shrine in Pennsylvania, praising Mr. Reagan for trying to win tax credits for parents of children in religious schools. In the same year,  the Cardinal delivered an invocation at the Republican National Convention in Dallas.
        From 1971 to 1974 he was president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
        "The other bishops liked dealing with him," said the Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, an  adviser to the bishops' conference at that time. "He was forthright. You always  knew where you stood."
        Earlier, Cardinal Krol oversaw a study of the priesthood for the conference that incorporated a psychological and sociological portrait of American priests  along with more traditional theological, pastoral and historical research.
        Although some of the study's conclusions, like supporting the ordination of women and of married people, were unacceptable to him, to the majority of American bishops and to the Vatican, Cardinal Krol made sure the findings were fully reported.
        In 1973 he called the Supreme Court's decisions overturning state laws banning abortion "an unspeakable tragedy for this nation" that "sets in motion developments which are terrifying to contemplate."
        In a Catholic hierarchy so long dominated by Irish priests, especially in the East, Cardinal Krol, the son of Polish immigrants, was distinguished by his ethnic heritage. He was also influential in the election of Karol Wojtyla, then  a Polish cardinal, as Pope John Paul II in 1978.
        After the military crackdown on the Solidarity trade union movement in Poland in 1981, Cardinal Krol was involved in relief efforts and quiet diplomacy.
        As a young priest, he visited Poland just before World War II, escaping by plane to Hungary across the Tatra Mountains after the Germans marched in. He enjoyed a triumphant return in 1972, visiting his ancestral village. He spoke before a large crowd at Auschwitz to honor the Rev. Maximilian Kolbe, the Polish priest who was later declared a saint for giving up his life in 1941 to save a fellow prisoner of the Nazis.
        John Joseph Krol was born in Cleveland on Oct. 26, 1910, the fourth of eight  children of John Krol Sr., a machinist, and Anne Pietruszka Krol. After graduating from Catholic elementary and high schools, he became a meat cutter and then a manager in a Kroger food market. A religious question from a fellow worker who was a Lutheran that he could not answer led the young Catholic to theology texts and eventually to a seminary.
        Ordained in 1937, he followed the classic career pattern for old-school Catholic prelates. He served a year as a Cleveland parish priest. Then he was sent to Rome and the Catholic University of America in Washington for a doctorate in church law.
        He taught church law in a seminary in Cleveland, and later held a series of archdiocesan administrative posts before and after he was named an auxiliary bishop in 1953.
        With his temperament, training and experience, the man appointed the 10th Archbishop of Philadelphia in 1961 was understandably devoted to established, orderly procedures, with little enthusiasm for disruption, confrontation or sudden innovations.
        "I'm sending you out there to make history, not headlines," a Philadelphia pastor recalled Cardinal Krol telling newly ordained priests.
        The Cardinal's name meant "king" in Polish, and his manner was definitely that of the man in charge. He was tall, ramrod-straight and always properly dressed and groomed.
        He had an aggressive, sharply teasing style of humor, said several priests who worked with him, but he appreciated rejoinders in kind. He was a proficient  golfer and, in relaxed moments, played the piano and enjoyed singing Polish, Irish and American songs.
        Cardinal Krol retired on Feb. 11, 1988, 27 years to the day after he became Archbishop of Philadelphia. He was succeeded by Archbishop Anthony J. Bevilacqua, who had been Bishop of Pittsburgh.
        His survivors include a brother, Alfonse Krol, and a sister, Ann Kadzielski,  both of Phoenix, Ariz.
      