
        Andries D. Woudhuysen, a prominent international securities trader for the brokerage firm of Burnham & Company who was commended by the Netherlands Government for his work in the resistance to Nazi Germany, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 78 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        He died of a stroke following heart surgery, said a friend, G. Peter Schieferdecker.
        Mr. Woudhuysen was born and educated in Amsterdam. In 1940, he managed to escape from the Netherlands shortly after Germany occupied the country, making his way to Sweden.
        Traveling through the Soviet Union and Japan, he was eventually able to join  the Dutch resistance forces in Canada. Subsequently, he worked in the Netherlands Government in exile in London.
        After the war, Mr. Woudhuysen served as a financial attache with the Netherlands Embassy in Washington. During this time, he was involved in the successful effort to retrieve the gold bullion holdings of the Netherlands Government that had been confiscated by the Germans.
        For his efforts during World War II, he was given the Resistance Commemorative Cross by Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands in 1982.
        Mr. Woudhuysen, a self-effacing diplomat of finance who was at home in most of the capitals of the world, became a partner at Burnham in 1957, five years after joining the firm.
        He became a specialist in overseas research and trading in an era when Burnham was developing international markets and expanding the brokerage concern's presence in many countries. Later, he became a senior vice president and head of trading.
        Mr. Woudhuysen was a frequent commentator on international banking and currency trading, and was often called upon by news organizations to explain the implications of such events as the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in August 1968.
        After his retirement in 1981 from the investment firm, which was then known as Drexel Burnham Lambert, Mr. Woudhuysen served as a consultant to the firm's Tokyo office. Among his charitable and civic works, Mr. Woudhuysen supported the restoration of the Mauritshaus museum in the Hague.
        He is survived by his wife, Marianne, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Marianne Penn of Norwich, England, and two granddaughters.
      