
        George S. Franklin Jr., who studied American foreign policy for many years and urged better relations with the Soviet Union and China long before such talk was fashionable, died on Tuesday in Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 82.
        The cause was pneumonia, the family said. He suffered a stroke in 1988.
        A resident of Manhattan and Oyster Bay, L.I., Mr. Franklin was a leader in two private study groups. From 1945 to 1971, he worked for the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, serving as executive director from 1953 to 1971.  He served on the group's board for another decade.
        Mr. Franklin spent many years with the Trilateral Commission, which draws on  the knowledge of experts from North America, Europe and Japan to study international affairs. He was the commission's North American secretary from 1973 to 1977 and coordinator from 1977 to 1982.
        Fluent in Russian, Mr. Franklin toured the Soviet Union in the late 1950's to learn what the people thought of their Government, the United States and the possibility of war. His impressions were recalled in The New York Times Magazine in January 1958.
        That it could be worthwhile to listen to ordinary Russians may seem obvious today. It was less so then at the height of the cold war, barely a year after the Hungarian Revolution, only a few months after the launch of Sputnik.
        As executive director, Mr. Franklin urged the Council on Foreign Relations to study ties between the United States and China. China was virtually closed to the West then, but Mr. Franklin was prescient in thinking that things would change dramatically.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Franklin graduated from Harvard in 1936 and from Yale Law School in 1939. He held various Federal Government posts from 1940 to 1944.
        Mr. Franklin won many sailing races in Atlantic Class competition.
        Surviving are his wife, Helena; a son, George 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Helena Rozier of Manhattan, Cynthia of Manhattan, and Sheila Lieber of Oyster Bay, and four grandchildren. Mr. Franklin's sister, Lila Nields of Brooklyn and Huntington, L.I., died three weeks ago.
      