
        Lord Jay, an iconoclastic British Labor politician and former Cabinet officer who was such a fierce opponent of economic ties with Europe that he railed against Britain's entry into the Common Market even as his own Prime Minister, Harold Wilson, was aggressively campaigning for membership, died yesterday at his home in Oxfordshire. He was 88.  Known as Douglas Jay until he received a life peerage in 1987, Lord Jay was an Oxford-trained economist who worked for The Economist and other publications before entering politics.
        A protege of Clement Atlee, Lord Jay served as his personal assistant when Mr. Atlee became Prime Minister in the Labor sweep of 1945.
        The next year, at Mr. Atlee's urging, he resigned and won a by-election to the House of Commons from the North Battersea area of central London, a traditionally safe Labor seat he held until his retirement in 1983.
        He held two Cabinet posts in the Atlee Government, Economic Secretary and Financial Secretary. Then, after the Conservatives regained power in 1951, he spent 13 years in vocal opposition, becoming closely allied with Hugh Gaitskell, an old school chum who was the leader of the Labor Party until his death.
        When Labor returned to office under Wilson in 1964, Lord Jay, who had served  in the post in the shadow government, was made Chairman of the Board of Trade, the rough equivalent of the American Secretary of Commerce.
        If the Prime Minister was dismayed when Lord Jay spoke out openly and sometimes scathingly against British membership in the Common Market, doing so even on one occasion when Mr. Wilson was on a tour of Europe to promote the idea, he should not have been surprised.
        Never one to keep his views to himself, Lord Jay had shocked many of the Labor faithful in 1959, after the party's third successive electoral defeat, when he made an impassioned plea for Labor to drop its traditional support for nationalization of industry and even to change its name to the Democrat Social Party.
        Mr. Wilson tolerated his public dissent on the Common Market, at least for a  while. But he was abruptly dismissed in 1967 on the ostensible ground that he had turned 60.
        Lord Jay was a brisk and highly efficient administrator who generally limited appointments to 30 minutes on the ground that no business should take longer than that. And for all his aversion to international travel, in 1964 he became the first senior government official to visit Communist China.
        A tall, gaunt figure in rumpled clothes, he was also something of a darling to the British press, an endearing eccentric of such renowned frugality -- or xenophobia -- that when required to attend meetings in Paris he carried a good English sandwich in a plastic bag rather than submit to French cuisine.
        During his years in the Cabinet, Lord Jay's nondescript clothes and ascetic ways were portrayed in stark contrast to the trendy tastes of his twin teen-age  daughters, Helen and Catherine, who were photographed so often in Mary Quant miniskirts and Courreges boots they seemed to be the ultimate incarnations of Carnaby Street chic.
        The son of a lawyer who gave up his practice to do social work in the East End of London, Lord Jay, who traced his own social leanings to his first sight as a toddler of poor children in tatters, was deeply committed to his version of the socialist ideal.
        "Socialists believe in equality as an end," he once wrote. "Any and every human being has as much right as anyone else to whatever gives value to human life."
        He was also inconoclastic in his private life. Having told his fiancee that he regarded monogamy as a sin, he proceeded to live up to his own marital ideals during a 39-year-marriage that didn't lead to divorce until 1972, the year he married his secretary, Mary Lavinia Thomas.
        In addition to his wife and daughters, he is survived by two sons: Peter, who was Ambassador to the United States in the 1960's, and Martin; and 14 grandchildren.
      