
        David Gebhard, an architectural historian who specialized in the architecture of California, died on Sunday while bicycling near his home. He was 68 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesman at the University of California at Santa Barbara, where he taught.
        Mr. Gebhard's many books include "Rudolph Schindler: Architect"; "A Guide to Architecture in Los Angeles and Southern California," written with Robert Winter, and "A Guide to Architecture in San Francisco and Northern California,"  written with several other authors. He also wrote architectural guides to Minnesota and Iowa.
        An ardent preservationist, he served on the Santa Barbara Historic Landmarks  Commission and the County of Santa Barbara's Architectural Board of Review. He served as the president of the National Society of Architectural Historians from 1980 to 1982.
        Mr. Gebhard was born in Cannon Falls, Minn., and earned a doctorate in art and architectural history from the University of Minnesota in 1958. After serving as the director of the Roswell Museum and Art Center in New Mexico from  1955 to 1961, he began teaching in the art department at the University of California in Santa Barbara.
        He was the director of the University Art Gallery, now the University Art Museum, from 1961 to 1981. In 1963 he founded the Architectural Drawing Collection at the university. Devoted to California architecture, the collection has grown into one of the largest in the country. He organized more than 25 exhibitions at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and other institutions. It was  in part through his efforts that the university attracted architects like Charles Moore, Michael Graves and Robert A. M. Stern to design buildings on its  campus.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, of Santa Barbara; two daughters, Ellen  Gates of Laguna Hills, Calif., and Tyra, of Santa Barbara, and a brother, James, of Prescott, Ariz.
      