
        George Burns, the cigar-puffing comedian who was the best comic "straight man" of his time in a partnership with the brilliantly scatterbrained Gracie Allen, and who began a solo career when he was nearly 80, died yesterday. He was 100 years old and his career in show business lasted 93 years.
        He died at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., said his manager, Irving Fein.
        The diminutive, gravel-voiced Mr. Burns, delivering doses of his dry humor and occasionally breaking into a fragment of some long-forgotten vaudeville ditty, all the while savoring a huge cigar, was a beloved figure to several generations of Americans. He not only survived but triumphed in vaudeville, radio, television, nightclubs, records, books and movies. Even as he aged, he seemed ageless.
        When he was well into his 90's, Mr. Burns announced with his customary brio that he had arranged to celebrate his 100th birthday, on Jan. 20, 1996, with an  engagement at the London Palladium. That being the case, he noted, he could not  possibly die -- "I'm booked," he explained.
        In July 1994, however, Mr. Burns fell in a bathtub in his home and was hospitalized. Two months later he was admitted to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles for surgery to drain fluid from the surface of his brain.
        He never recovered fully and became increasingly frail. He was forced to cancel his Palladium appearance and a sold-out engagement scheduled for last year at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nev. Mr. Burns already had his opening line ready: "It's nice to be here. When you're 100 years old, it's nice to be anywhere."
        Then a bout of flu kept him from attending a party in his honor on Jan. 16 at the Four Seasons Hotel in Beverly Hills. The birthday party was also timed to coincide with an announcement of Mr. Burns's donation to Cedars-Sinai for the George Burns and Gracie Allen Research Institute. There already is a George Burns Medical Education Center in Israel.
        The Burns and Allen team rose to the heights of the entertainment world in the 1920's and remained there, whether in vaudeville, movies, radio or television, until Miss Allen's retirement in 1959.
        After Miss Allen's death in 1964 at the age of 58, Mr. Burns continued to perform on television in concerts and nightclubs with performers like Carol Channing, Ann-Margret and Dorothy Provine.
        In 1975, when he was 79 and after undergoing major heart surgery, Mr. Burns made a triumphant movie comeback in Neil Simon's "The Sunshine Boys," in the role of a retired vaudeville performer, and began his remarkable second career.
        He had been absent from the screen in a leading role for 35 years, but he won an Academy Award as best supporting actor, a coup that led to new film roles. He also appeared in annual television specials and was a guest on many other programs.
        Prominent Products Of Vaudeville
        Mr. Burns and Miss Allen were products of that golden age in vaudeville that  produced many comedians who successfully made the transition to motion pictures, radio and television. Among them were Milton Berle, George Jessel, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Phil Silvers, Bert Lahr and Mr. Burns's closest friend for a half-century, Jack Benny.
        Although on stage Mr. Burns made a mild pass at appearing to be vain -- he pretended to be the great lover as well as a fine singer, and naturally fooled no one on either count -- he was unegotistically content to play the Burns and Allen team's straight man, slyly feeding his partner the lines that set up the punch lines.
        "Me, the long-suffering husband," he said, "seems to utter only lines that give Gracie, the nutty flibbertigibbet, a chance to say something crazy. I don't mind. I wind up having the last laugh, anyway, when I bank our pay."
        Indeed, as one of the most successful comedy teams in modern times, Mr. Burns and Miss Allen were millionaires several times over. In the 1950's, when theirs  was one of the top-rated television shows, Mr. Burns added to their fortune by forming a production company that filmed their show and others.
        The Burns and Allen comedy team came into being in 1922, but Mr. Burns had been in show business for about 15 years before that.
        Nathan Birnbaum Of Lower East Side
        Mr. Burns, whose original name was Nathan Birnbaum, was born on Jan. 20, 1896, on Pitt Street on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, the ninth of twelve children. As a child, he and a pal would pick up bits of coal from the streets to take home.  And friends, on seeing the boys' knickers bulging with coal, would call out, "Here come the Burns Brothers," a reference to the name of a coal company that served the neighborhood. The nickname stuck and the comedian took Burns as his stage name.
        At age 7, he joined with a 6-year-old basso and two other boys to form the Pee-Wee Quartet, which performed in saloons and the Staten Island ferry, where,  he said, the only way for people to avoid them was to jump overboard. At 13, he  and a friend opened B-B's College of Dancing.
        "We got most of our clients right off the immigration boats at Ellis Island," Mr. Burns late recalled. "We told them one of the first requirements of becoming a United States citizen was a $5 course of dancing lessons. Dishonest, you say?  Maybe. But have you ever been hungry?"
        Following the vogues of the times, Mr. Burns appeared in vaudeville as a trick roller skater and a member of Latin and ballroom dance teams. "I even did  an act with a seal," he once recalled. "It was small-time vaudeville, playing bad theaters and thinking you were good if you played a theater worse than you were."
        Mr. Burns's acts were invariably so awful, he said, that no booker would hire him, so he would constantly be forced to invent new stage names, among them Willy Delight, Captain Betts and Buddy Links. He was part of a song-and-dance act at a theater in Newark when he was introduced to Miss Allen in 1922.
        Although she was only 16, Miss Allen had four years of vaudeville experience, playing Irish colleens. Mr. Burns persuaded her to join him with Miss Allen playing his straight "man." But it soon became apparent that Miss Allen was a natural comedienne, and Mr. Burns rewrote their material to give his new partner most of the laughs.
        By 1926, when they were married, Mr. Burns and Miss Allen had become stellar  attractions in vaudeville. Their act, called "Lamb Chops," written chiefly by Mr. Burns, became so popular that the Keith theater circuit signed them to a six-year contract.
        In 1929, 'Hooked On the Microphone'
        Their radio debut came in 1929, when they were appearing at the Palladium in  London. On their show, which began on NBC in 1932 and lasted until 1950, Mr. Burns cultivated Miss Allen's characterization of the addlepated nitwit. He gave her lines, for instance, in which she explained she trimmed the hedge with an electric razor, or put straw in the water in which she boiled eggs "so they'll feel at home."
        "The character was simply the dizziest dame in the world, but what made her different from all the other dumb Doras was that Gracie played her as if she were totally sane, as if her answers actually made sense," Mr. Burns once explained. "We called it illogic-logic."
        Their patented humor carried over into movies. They played themselves in more than a score of films, which included "The Big Broadcast" series of 1932, 1936 and 1937, "International House" (in 1933, with W. C. Fields), "Many Happy Returns" (1934), "A Damsel in Distress" (in 1937, with Fred Astaire) and "College Swing" (1938).
        "Gracie didn't tell you a joke," Mr. Burns said. "She explained it to you." Here is an example, from a 1947 radio script:
        George: "Gracie, suppose you start explaining these Christmas bills. Who got  this $25 hat?"
        Gracie: "I gave that to Clara Bagley. I've decided to break up our friendship."
        George: "Then why did you give her an expensive hat?"
        Gracie: "I have one exactly like it. When she sees me with it on, she'll stop speaking to me."
        Jokes like this one may not seem funny by today's "anything goes" standard. But Burns and Allen's audience, estimated at more than 40 million in the late 1930's, found them hilarious, and NBC was happy to pay them a fee of $10,000 a week, then phenomenal. The show was seldom out of the top 10.
        Very Few Changes In Shift to Television
        "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show" made the transition from radio to television, on CBS, in 1950, and it traveled well. The theme song, "Love Nest,"  was the same and so were many of the cast members, including Bea Benaderet as Gracie's neighbor, Blanche, and Hal March as Blanche's long-suffering husband, Harry. And the program always ended with Mr. Burns's rasping, "Say good night, Gracie." To which Miss Allen obligingly replied, "Good night, Gracie."
        After Miss Allen's retirement in 1959, Mr. Burns continued the television show for a season, working with their son, Ronald. His son, of Los Angeles, and his daughter, Sandra Luckman of San Diego, survive him, as do seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        In 1960, he teamed with Carol Channing for nightclub appearances, and later appeared on television, but his days as a major performer had seemingly ended.
        Mr. Burns never remarried after Miss Allen's death in 1964, but he made a habit of squiring women many years his junior. Bill Cosby, the comedian, ran into Mr. Burns, a beautiful woman on each arm, at a book signing and asked why he always had two women with him. "They're hipper than canes," he replied. And he once said, "I'd go out with women my age, but there aren't any women my age."
        After "The Sunshine Boys" won him an Oscar, he appeared in pictures including "Oh, God!," a 1977 film in which he played God, "Just You and Me, Kid" (1979) and "Going in Style" (1979).
        There was a sequel, "Oh, God! Book II," in 1980 and, in 1984, another sequel, "Oh God! You Devil," in which the comedian played both God and the Devil. "Why shouldn't I play God?" he said when he was 93. "Anything I do at my age is a miracle." In 1988, he starred in "Eighteen Again," a movie in which he played a  grandfather whose body is switched with his grandson's.
        In 1988, the year he received a John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts award for lifetime achievement, Mr. Burns published a memoir, "Gracie: A Love Story," which remained on best-seller lists for more than five months. In 1989, he made the best-seller lists again with "All My Best Friends," a collection of reminiscences about show-business acquaintances. In all, his name  appeared on 10 books, which, he noted, "is pretty good for a guy that read only  two." His recording of "Gracie" also won a Grammy.
        For years he was considered the wit of the Comedians' Round Table at the Hillcrest Country Club, where lunchtime regulars included Jack Benny, Groucho and Harpo Marx, Harry, Al and Jimmy Ritz, Al Jolson and George Jessel. And he would often visit his wife's grave at Forest Lawn and "tell her everything I'm doing."
        Mr. Burns's devotion to Miss Allen was legendary. When she died, he arranged  Episcopal rites although she was a Roman Catholic. Years later, he explained: "I want to be buried with Gracie, and since I'm Jewish, I can't be buried in Catholic-consecrated ground. I hope the Episcopal rites were the right compromise."
        Correction:
        An obituary yesterday about the comedian George Burns misstated the year of Gracie Allen's retirement in some copies. It was 1959, not 1958.
        The obituary of George Burns on March 10 omitted a reference to the first of  his two marriages. In the early 1920's, before he was married to Gracie Allen, he was briefly married to a dancer, Hannah Siegel.
      