
        Sir James Runcieman Sutherland, a British connoisseur of literary anecdotes who taught at five American universities, died on Feb. 24 at the Oaken Holt Residential Home in Eynsham, near Oxford, England, The Guardian reported on Friday. He was 95.
        Sir James, who was knighted in 1992, was the editor of "The Oxford Book of Literary Anecdotes" (Oxford University Press, 1975).
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt called it "charming and diverting." He said some of the anecdotes were "familiar but still refreshing," including one, from the late 1700's, about the Duke of Gloucester and the English historian Edward Gibbon.
        When Gibbon presented the Duke with a copy of the second volume of his six-volume work "The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," the Duke accepted it, according to the anthology, "with much good nature and affability, saying to him as he laid the quarto on the table, 'Another d-mn'd thick, square book! Always scribble, scribble, scribble! Eh! Mr. Gibbon?' "
        Mr. Lehmann-Haupt also said in his review that "many of the shorter anecdotes seemed completely fresh," like one from the 20th century about the Welsh poet Dylan Thomas stopping to state, in the middle of a morning of drinking and talking: "Something's boring me. I think it's me."
        Sir James edited the anthology following his retirement in 1967 after 16 years as Lord Northcliffe Professor of modern English literature at University College, London. He was also a visiting professor at Harvard in 1947, at Indiana University in 1950 and 1951 and at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1967 and 1968. He was a Mellon Professor at the University of Pittsburgh in 1965 and a Berg Professor at New York University in 1969 and 1970.
        In writing the anthology, Sir James pored over memoirs, letters, diaries and  early biographies.
        Despite his sojourns in the United States, the 400 items that Sir James included in the anthology were almost all about high or low moments in the lives of writers in what is now Britain, ranging from the seventh-century poet Caedmon to the English-American novelist and humorist P. G. Wodehouse, who died in 1975.
        Sir James was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, studied at Oxford, and wrote or edited more than a score of books in addition to the anthology, which is still in print.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Eve Betts.
      