
        Austin Hansen, who chronicled the life of Harlem in thousands of photographs  over six decades, died on Tuesday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center on First Avenue and 23d Street in Manhattan. Mr. Hansen, who lived in West Harlem,  was 85.
        Through his lens, Mr. Hansen, who began taking pictures as a 12-year-old in the Virgin Islands, captured a vast spectrum of activity in the community he joined in 1928. Among his images were enraptured young couples, David N. Dinkins's wedding and the street-corner grief when Franklin D. Roosevelt died in 1945. Here was Lena Horne being interviewed in the Hotel Theresa, and there was  a man walking a picket line, carrying a sign that read: "Do Not Ride These Buses Until You See Negro Drivers."
        The photographs Mr. Hansen took were also the story of his life. "And it hasn't all been beautiful," he said one day in 1994. "Some has been sad, the way they treated black people in those days. And I have been part of the suffering."
        Mr. Hansen made his last public appearance on Saturday, at the opening of an  exhibition of works by 21 African-American photographers at the Adam Clayton Powell Jr. State Office Building in Harlem. The senior artist in the show, Mr. Hansen was the featured speaker before an audience of 500, many of whom sought him out before and after his remarks to ask for his autograph. Later that night, he suffered a stroke.
        At the time of his death, "Hansen's Harlem," an exhibition distilled from the 50,000 images he donated to the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, was touring the world.
        Mr. Hansen was born in 1910 in St. Thomas, V.I. When he was 12, he started to take pictures with an Eastman Hawkeye camera, made of cardboard and imitation leather.
        He never forgot the first photograph that made him money. "Hansen, take my picture," said a friend who had a new car.
        "And he gave me 20 cents," Mr. Hansen recalled. "My mother couldn't come by 2 cents, we were having it so hard. We were able to get 10 loaves of bread."
        Eventually, a naval officer, F. A. Dibling, hired Mr. Hansen as a photographer, and when Mr. Hansen left St. Thomas for New York in 1928, he carried with him a reference from his employer.
        But the reference did Mr. Hansen little good when he reached the city.
        "Everywhere I went, they said, 'We're not hiring colored,' " he remembered. "So I went and got a job washing dishes, running the elevator and doing all the  menial things blacks were doing at that time."
        Sometimes, he played drums in gigs around town. And always, he kept his camera nearby. One night at the Essex Hotel, he saw a young black woman perform. "She was singing for Mrs. Roosevelt," he said. "A black girl! I figured it was news. And I took the picture."
        He sold it to The New York Amsterdam News for $2, and for the next six decades, his portraits and news photographs captured the ordinary and extraordinary in Harlem. Eventually, he opened a studio on West 135th Street, where he worked for 47 years, with time out for a hitch as a Navy photographer during World War II and a job as a darkroom technician for the Office of War Information.
        But most of his career was spent making portraits and freelancing for newspapers like The New York Amsterdam News and The Pittsburgh Courier.
        He took photographs for Malcolm X and for Adam Clayton Powell Sr. and Jr. He  recorded historical images of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, Marcus Garvey, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Langston Hughes, Mary McLeod Bethune and Marian Anderson.
        For more than 40 years, Mr. Hansen was the official photographer for the Abyssinian Baptist Church, and for more than 20 years Mr. Hansen and his brother, Aubrey, who died before him, documented events at the Cathedral of St.  John the Divine.
        For the last five years, Mr. Hansen was the artist in residence at the Photographic Center of Harlem, a nonprofit school that teaches photography to children, young adults and the elderly.
        Mr. Hansen is survived by his wife of 53 years, Lillian; a daughter, Joyce Hansen of Manhattan; two sons, Austin Hansen Jr. of Pomona, N.Y., and Arnold Hansen of Syracuse; a sister, Cynthia Marcee, of Alexandria, Va., and seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      