
        William G. Carr, an educator who brought a distinctly international outlook to his 15 years as executive secretary of the National Education Association, died on March 1 at a hospice in Denver. He was 95.
        Although he taught for a time, Dr. Carr had broader educational horizons.
        A man who saw the world as his classroom and the body politic as his pupils, he spent virtually his entire professional career with the National Education Association, the professional group representing teachers, administrators and other school personnel. He was its executive secretary, the chief administrator, from 1952 to 1967.
        Dr. Carr was a native of England whose family went to Canada as homesteaders  in 1906 and stayed just long enough to find out how cold the winters could get in Red Deer, Alberta. He grew up in Los Angeles, where his father, a cabinet maker, became a consultant to the movie industry on authentic period furniture.
        Dr. Carr went to Washington as the N.E.A's assistant director of research as  soon as he received his doctorate from Stanford in 1929. Over the next 38 years, his was an increasingly powerful voice on education policy.
        Addressing a convention of the American Association of University Women in 1939, for example, he outlined a 10-point program including a plea for "systematic education for home and family life," a proposal that schools -- already adept, he suggested, at training efficient producers -- adopt courses to turn out more efficient consumers.
        For Dr. Carr, who once made 11 suggestions in an 11-minute address, a favorite theme in the early 1940's was the need to counter isolationist tendencies by teaching that the United States "is now and forever bound up in the affairs of the world."
        Practicing what he taught, he was active in a number of international education organizations and was a consultant to the American delegation to the United Nations founding conference in San Francisco in 1945. Later that year, in London, he was the deputy secretary for the founding conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
        During his 15 years as executive secretary of the N.E.A., Dr. Carr pushed for increased Federal aid and other benefits to education. But by the time he retired in 1967, his ideas sometimes seemed quaint to younger colleagues. In his final report to the association, for example, he warned that strikes by teachers would destroy the public's confidence in them. The next year his successors decided to give full backing to striking affiliates.
        Dr. Carr, whose wife, Elizabeth, died in 1983, is survived by a son, Wilfred  James Carr of Denver, and three grandchildren.
      