
        Paul Steiner, who helped reshape the publishing business in the United States and made the illustrated coffee table book an industry staple, died on Thursday  at his home in Manhattan. He was 83.
        Mr. Steiner, the founder of the Chanticleer Press, followed a circuitous path into publishing. A native of Vienna, he studied law and worked as a secretary to an Austrian newspaper publisher before fleeing the Nazis in 1939 and coming to the United States. He sold vacuum cleaners and worked as a roofer in Akron, Ohio, before a friend from Vienna who had opened a publishing venture in London  asked him to start a subsidiary in the United States.
        The result was the Chanticleer Press, which became independent in 1952 and is regarded as the first of the nation's publishing packagers -- companies that  generally operate behind the scenes, dreaming up ideas and commissioning and assembling text and photographs for books that are then distributed under contract by established publishers.
        If old-line publishers sometimes look askance at packagers, reluctant to admit that they need outside help in creating some of the books they ultimately  distribute under their own imprimaturs, Mr. Steiner's success made a compelling  case for such arrangements, particularly for lavishly illustrated, oversized books that are especially expensive to produce.
        Although Mr. Steiner began specializing in photographic books in the 1950's,  his greatest recent success came in the 1970's when he began putting together the "National Audubon Society's Field Guide" and "Pocket Guide" series.
        The books, which are published by Knopf, are believed to be the first such guides to use photographs rather than drawings of birds. And, in a reflection of Mr. Steiner's acute sense of color and design, they also broke with tradition by grouping birds by size, shape and color rather than by type.
        It proved a winning formula. More than 10 million of the Audubon guides have  been sold.
        Under Mr. Steiner, Chanticleer also published other nature series, including  the "Collins Bird Guides of Britain and Europe," "Wildlife Habitat" and "Taylor's Guides to Gardening," as well as many single-volume works, among them, Mary McCarthy's "Stones of Florence," Edward Steichen's "Life in Photography" and Peter Matthiessen's "African Experience."
        Mr. Steiner is survived by his wife, Marianne; a son, Thomas, of Chappaqua, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      