
        Francis J. (Bud) Connelly, a distinguished business educator who for 14 years was the dean of Baruch College, the business school of the City University of New York, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 54, and lived  in Annandale, Va.
        The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Sharon, said.
        During his tenure, which ended last year, Mr. Connelly was credited with developing the school's business administration and public administration executive master's programs, which were designed for professionals who wanted graduate degrees.
        He showed an affinity for students in the public administration programs. An  associate recalled that Mr. Connelly particularly enjoyed teaching students of the executive master's program in public administration.
        Mr. Connelly told colleagues that he felt drawn to those students because most were not supported by companies and had to pay their own way, so they made  more sacrifices to get their degrees.
        Together with the school's president, Matthew Goldstein, Dean Connelly taught a crowded course in basic statistics.
        "When they heard the president and the dean were teaching the course, they would flock to the class," Mr. Goldstein recalled. "But they would shake when I  came in and laugh when he came in.
        "The students did not like me as much because I made sure they understood the technical nuances. Connelly would bring real-life examples that would make the subject come alive and made the students laugh in a subject where most students  cried."
        Mr. Connelly was a graduate of City University, from which he received a bachelor's degree in business administration in 1964. He also received a master's degree in business administration from Washington State University in 1966 and a doctorate in business administration from Indiana University in 1972.
        Before returning to Baruch College in 1978, he served for a year as associate dean of the School of Business and Public Administration at Washington University in St. Louis. At Baruch he advanced the goals of diversity and pluralism.
        Last year, Mr. Connelly retired as dean and was named the Lippert Distinguished Professor of Marketing.
        He is survived by his wife of 26 years, the former Sharon Rudolph Lilly; a son, John R. Lilly of Manassas, Va.; two sisters, Maureen Connelly of Cumberland, Md., and Madeline Weicks of Fort Pierce, Fla.; his mother, Madeline Devlin Connelly, also of Cumberland, and two nephews, Christopher and John.
      