
        Tom McDermott, who caught the acting bug as a high school student in Chicago  and never shook it off during a 64-year career on and off Broadway, in regional  theater, on television and in the movies, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83.
        His family said the cause was prostate cancer.
        He was never a Broadway star and his leading roles tended to be in regional  theater, but in a notoriously overcrowded field in which many actors seem to spend much of their professional lives waiting tables, Mr. McDermott had little  reason to complain. From the time he became a professional actor as a teen-ager  in Chicago until his final role last year, in the yet unreleased movie version of "The Crucible," he was almost never out of work.
        Along the way he appeared on Broadway with Katharine Cornell and Judith Anderson in Chekhov's "Three Sisters," with Melvyn Douglas in "The Best Man," with Nicol Williamson in "Macbeth," and, more recently, as the harried Secretary of State in the 1989 production of Larry Gelbart's "Mastergate."
        In one of his numerous Off-Broadway parts, he portrayed Captain Vere in the first stage adaptation of "Billy Budd." And in one of the first of many television roles beginning in the 1950's, he appeared on the seminal sci-fi series "Captain Video" as Permes Lykos, an alien regarded as a precursor of Mr.  Spock on the later "Star Trek" series.
        Although he had no formal training as an actor, Mr. McDermott had a natural flair for the dramatic gesture, although none, his son, Tom Jr., suggested yesterday, quite as frothy as the one in a high school play when he accomplished an instant transformation from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde by slipping Alka-Seltzer tablets onto his tongue and actually foaming at the mouth.
        Mr. McDermott was so stage-struck that the theater dominated virtually every  aspect of his life. He was a highly active member of Actors' Equity, for example, and in a bygone era when couples were not expected to share hotel rooms without benefit of matrimony, he even married his girlfriend of the moment, a fellow actor, simply so they could continue their romance while touring in a play.
        The play closed after two peformances, their son said, but the marriage lasted 61 years.
        In addition to his son, Mr. McDermott is survived by his wife, Mary Hayden; two daughters, Miranda McDermott and Deborah Morenzi; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      