
        James F. Nordstrom, a retired co-chairman of Nordstrom Inc. and a grandson of the department store company's founder, died on Tuesday at his home in Seattle.  He was 56.
        The cause was cancer, the company said.
        Until last June, Mr. Nordstrom helped lead the retailer as part of an unusual management structure that included his brother, John; his cousin Bruce Nordstrom and John A. McMillan, a cousin by marriage. All held the title co-chairman, with the separate title of president rotating among them.
        Together, Mr. Nordstrom and this team turned Nordstrom into one of the nation's largest fashion retailers. Building on its reputation for high-quality  goods, they stressed top-notch service to encourage customer loyalty. Some trademark Nordstrom practices, like having salespeople write personal thank you  notes to customers, have been copied by other retailers. The team also fostered  employee loyalty by paying salespeople on commission and promoting from within.
        Mr. Nordstrom and his co-chairmen also led the retailer on a national expansion drive, first in the West and since 1988 in the East and Midwest, particularly in the Washington, New York and Chicago areas. Nordstrom now has 79 stores in 15 states, and in the year ended Jan. 31, it posted revenues of $4.1 billion, with earnings of $165 million. When Mr. Nordstrom became a co-chairman  in 1968 with the other members of his generation, the company's sales were $57 million.
        Mr. Nordstrom, known within the company as Mr. Jim, remained a director of the company and chairman of the board's executive committee until his death.
        He was the son of Elmer J. and Katherine Nordstrom, and a grandson of John W. Nordstrom, who co-founded the shoe store that eventually became the family business. Although the company went public in 1971, the family still owns about  26 percent of the stock.
        Mr. Nordstrom grew up in Seattle and graduated from the University of Washington.
        Over the years, he was active in many civic and business groups, including service as a trustee of the Stanford University School of Business and of Seattle's Swedish Hospital, which was founded by his grandfather. He was also an independent director of the Professional Golf Association Tournament policy board.
        Mr. Nordstrom is survived by his wife, Sally Anderson Nordstrom of Bellevue,  Wash.; four sons, Daniel, of Bellevue, Wash., and William, Charles and James Jr., all of Seattle; his mother, of Seattle; his brother, John, of Bellevue, and four grandchildren.
      