
        Krzysztof Kieslowski, the Polish film director who achieved international acclaim with his hauntingly enigmatic trilogy, "Three Colors," died yesterday in a hospital in Warsaw. He was 54.
        He had undergone a heart bypass operation on Tuesday, said Ryszard Straszewski, the production chief of Mr. Kieslowski's film company, Tor.
        Along with Andrzej Wajda, Mr. Kieslowski was one of the two most important film makers to come out of Poland. Unlike Mr. Wajda, whose major films dramatized Poland's tormented modern history, Mr. Kieslowski in his mature work  de-emphasized political and historical themes in favor of the moral dilemmas and ambiguities in the lives of ordinary people.
        "Three Colors," although made during Poland's transition from a Communist state to a capitalist democracy, was not overtly political. Taking the names of  its three parts -- "Blue" (for liberty), "White" (for equality) and "Red" (for fraternity) -- from the colors of the French flag, the trilogy explored those values in the personal lives of its characters.
        In "Blue," a young woman experiences "liberty" after her husband and daughter die in a car crash. "White" is a comedy about a man who gets even with the wife  who humiliated him by becoming rich and framing her for his faked death. In "Red," a young model teaches an embittered judge to re-embrace life. The films are linked by the appearance of the characters in all three movies at the end of "Red."
        The trilogy won numerous awards at European film festivals. "Red," the most acclaimed of the three, brought Mr. Kieslowski a 1994 Academy Award nomination for best director, and was voted best foreign film by the National Society of Film Critics and the New York Society of Film Critics.
        Comparably ambitious was another multiple-film series by Mr. Kieslowski, "The Decalogue," a cycle of 10 films inspired by the Ten Commandments, made in 1988 for Polish television. When the cycle had its theatrical release two years later, it earned the director widespread acclaim throughout Europe and made his  reputation.
        Although each part of "The Decalogue" told a self-contained story, all 10 episodes were linked by their setting in the same sprawling Warsaw apartment-house complex and some overlapping of characters. The fifth and sixth  parts of the series were re-edited into feature-length films and released internationally as "A Short Film About Love" and "A Short Film About Killing," a protest against the death penalty.
        Mr. Kieslowski was born in Warsaw on June 27, 1941. He spent his childhood moving from town to town, depending on where his father, an engineer suffering from tuberculosis, could find treatment. In 1957 he began studying theater technology, and in 1964 he entered the prestigious Lodz Film School. He made his television debut five years later with a documentary, "The Photograph," and for  several years following worked for WFD, a documentary studio. In 1974, he joined the Tor film production company, becoming its director in 1984.
        During the 1970's he was part of a group of film makers who called their work "the cinema of moral anxiety."
        "On the one hand," he explained, "there was a totalitarian system which put boundaries on everything, but on the other, there was a will that everything in  the system should be good, including culture."
        Among the several documentaries he made in the 1970's, the most famous was "Workers '71," about a labor strike in Szczecin. Another, "First Love," won the  Golden Dragon Prize at the International Festival of Short Films in Cracow in 1974. His first feature film, "Personnel," was made for television in 1975. It won first prize at the Mannheim Festival in Germany. He also directed a number of theatrical productions, including his own play, "Biography," at the Stary Theater in Cracow, in 1978.
        His first feature film for the cinema, "The Scar," came in 1976. "Camera Buff" which won the grand prize at the Moscow and Chicago Film Festivals in 1979, distilled his morally ambiguous vision. It tells the story of an amateur film maker who buys a camera to record the growth of his newborn baby. His homemade films go on to win prizes, but his obsession with film making destroys  his marriage.
        It was followed in 1981 by "Blind Chance." Made during the rise of the Solidarity movement but banned for six years after the declaration of martial law in December 1981, it examines the three varying destinies that await a young medical student depending on whether or not he catches a train.
        In 1984, Mr. Kieslowski teamed up with Krzysztof Piesiewicz, a prominent Warsaw attorney, who became his long-term screenwriting collaborator, to make "No End." The two also worked together on "The Decalogue," "The Double Life of Veronique" (1990), and finally on "Three Colors."
        In 1994, Mr. Kieslowski announced his retirement from film making because, he said, he believed that literature could achieve what cinema couldn't. But Zbigniew Preisner, who wrote the music for most of his films, said the director  was planning future projects at the time of his death.
        Mr. Kieslowski did, however, take a cautious pride in "Red." "I think we have shown a way of thinking a little bit differently than film normally does," he said. "In film, every moment is clear, but in literature everything becomes clear when you finish the book."
        He is survived by his wife, Maria, and a daughter, Marta.
      