
        Sheik Mohammed al-Ghazali, an Islamic cleric and scholar whose writings have  influenced generations of Egyptians, died on Saturday while delivering a lecture in Riyadh, the Saudi Arabian capital. He was 78 and lived in Cairo. The cause of death was a heart attack, Egyptian newspapers said.
        The author of 94 books, Sheik Ghazali attracted a broad following with works  that sought to interpret Islam and its holy book, the Koran, in a modern light.  He is widely credited with contributing to a revival of Islamic faith in Egypt over the last decade.
        In 1993, at the height of a violent campaign by Muslim militants against Egypt's secular Government, Sheik Ghazali caused a national stir when he testified on behalf of assailants who had killed a well-known writer for what they deemed his anti-Islamic views. Without mentioning the writer, Farag Fouda,  by name, Sheik Ghazali told an Egyptian court that anyone who openly resisted the full imposition of Islamic law was an apostate who should be killed either by the government or by devout individuals.
        He also called on the Government to appoint a committee to measure the faith  of the population and give wayward Egyptian Muslims time to repent. Those who did not should be killed, he said.
        Even so, Sheik Ghazali, who often appeared on state-run television and held a place in the pulpit of one of Cairo's largest mosques, was not closely identified with the militant cause. After Muslim militants tried to kill President Hosni Mubarak during a visit to Ethiopia last summer, Sheik Ghazali was among the prominent Islamic clerics who traveled to the presidential palace  to congratulate Mr. Mubarak on his safe return.
        His books included "Islam and the Modern Economy," "Islam and Political Despotism," and an encyclopedic work called "Fanaticism and Tolerance Between Christianity and Islam." He reportedly died in the middle of delivering a lecture called "Islam and the West."
        Sheik Ghazali was born in 1917 in the small town of Itai al Baroud, southeast of the coastal port of Alexandria. He graduated from Al Azhar University in 1941.
        The father-in-law of Mohammed Abdel Qudous, a prominent Egyptian Islamic journalist, Sheik Ghazali is survived by his wife and seven children. He was buried on Sunday in the Muslim holy city of Medina, where his family was flown aboard a plane provided by Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia.
      