
        Henry Serrano Villard, a former ambassador who retired in 1961 and turned to  writing books, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 95 and lived in Los Angeles, Europe and the Bahamas.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        He spent 28 years representing the United States on four continents and served as the first Ambassador to Libya, in 1952, and later as Ambassador to Senegal and Mauritania.
        Mr. Villard's fascination for the history of early aviation inspired two of his books: "Contact! The Story of the Early Birds" and "Blue Ribbon of the Air:  The Gordon Bennett Races," both of which were published by Smithsonian Press in  1987).
        His most recent book, written with James Nagel, recalled his experience as a  volunteer ambulance driver in Italy in World War I when he shared a hospital room with Ernest Hemingway, a fellow volunteer recovering from combat wounds.
        The book, "Hemingway in Love and War: The Lost Diary of Agnes von Kurowsky,"  chronicles Hemingway's romance with his nurse, whom the author later used as a model for a character in "A Farewell to Arms."
        Mr. Villard was born in Manhattan and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1921 from Harvard College, where he edited The Harvard Crimson. He was a great-grandson of William Lloyd Garrison, the abolitionist and editor, and a grandson of Henry  Villard, the financier and publisher. His family is remembered in New York for the landmark Villard Houses on Madison Avenue, its former home and now a part of the New York Palace Hotel.
        Mr. Villard studied the French theater at Magdalen College, Oxford, and appeared in a few silent movies with Zasu Pitts. He taught English and did a stint as a reporter for Hearst newspapers in Los Angeles and Miami before starting his diplomatic career as a vice consul in Teheran, Iran, in 1928.
        As an Africa expert, he led the State Department's planning staff for the Allied invasion of North Africa in World War II and served as liaison to the Free French forces. His many other postings also included work with the United Nations in Geneva, San Francisco, New York and Paris.
        Mr. Villard's wife of 50 years, Tamara Gringutes Villard died in 1990. Survivors include a son, Dimitri of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Alexandra de Borchgrave of Washington.
      