
        George Fabian Scheer Jr., a chronicler of the Revolutionary War, died March 9 in Memorial Hospital at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He was  78 and lived in Chapel Hill.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Scheer, who was also a publishers' representative, literary agent and book reviewer, was best known to the public as the co-author, with Hugh F. Rankin, of "Rebels and Redcoats: The American Revolution Through the Eyes of Those Who Fought and Lived It." Originally issued by World Publishing, it has been in print for nearly 40 years.
        The book presents a panoramic overview of all the fighting of the war, from the skirmishes at Lexington Green and Concord Bridge to the final withdrawal of  Gen. Guy Carleton's British troops from New York in 1783. It was last reprinted  in 1987 by Da Capo.
        Mr. Scheer also edited, annotated and indexed "Private Yankee Doodle: Being a Narrative of Some of the Adventures, Dangers and Sufferings of a Revolutionary Soldier." Written by Joseph Plumb Martin, a rifleman, it was first published in  1830 when the diarist was 70 -- anonymously, as custom then had it. Mr. Scheer's acclaimed, illustrated rendition was published by Little, Brown in 1957 and was  reprinted by Holiday just last year as "Yankee Doodle Boy: A Young Soldier's Adventures in the American Revolution."
        Mr. Scheer contributed numerous book reviews of Colonial and Revolutionary tales and histories to The New York Times Book Review and American Heritage. He  was also a consultant to the producers of "American Heritage," broadcast by the  Arts & Entertainment network in 1994.
        He was the president of George F. Scheer Associates in Greensboro, N.C., a company he founded 50 years ago to represent publishers whose titles he sold to  bookstores throughout the Southeast.
        He is survived by his son, George F. Scheer 3d of Chapel Hill; a brother, Julian, of Catlett, Va.; and his companion, Barbara Latz Unger. His wife of almost 50 years, Genevieve Yost Scheer, died in 1992.
      