
        Philip Rapp, a comedy writer whose invention of the battling Bickersons entertained American radio listeners in the 1940's and created an enduring metaphor for senseless squabbling, died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 88.
        A native of England whose Austrian-born parents brought him to America as a teen-ager, he became a novelty dancer and began his writing career selling jokes to comics on the vaudeville circuit in the 1920's. He also created the Baby Snooks character for the Ziegfeld star Fanny Brice, who later reprised the role  on radio.
        Mr. Rapp first went to Hollywood in the 1930's to write the Eddie Can 1/8 tor radio program. He later wrote for other radio programs and for the movies. He produced and helped write the "Topper" and "Hiram Holiday" television series  in the 1950's before becoming a wisecracking regular at the celebrated comedians' roundtable of the Hillcrest Country Club.
        But for all his wide-ranging accomplishments, nothing could eclipse the characters he created in the 1940's for Don Ameche and Frances Langford.
        Originally conceived as a sketch for another radio program, the disputatious  John and Blanche Bickerson proved so popular that they appeared in further sketches and eventually on their own Sunday night radio program in 1947.
        Since then the Bickersons, widely regarded as an inspiration for Jackie Glearon's original "Honeymooners" and other television couples, have been repeatedly revived for dinner theater and other venues, and the original broadcasts have become a staple of nostalgia broadcasts.
        Although the program lasted but a single season, the Bickersons had entered the American lexicon. In the last ye'r alone, they have resurfaced as a metaphor for the squabbling over the Federal budget, sniping among Republican Presidential candidates and the repartee between the movie critics Gene Siskel and Roger Ebert.
        Although their rapid-fire exchanges of inspired barbs, most of them aimed at  the husband's heart, made the Bickersons seem the prototype of matrimonial infighting, Mr. Rapp always insisted that there was no malice between them, only affectionate hyperbole.
        Then again, he had to say something like that, his son Joel noted yesterday,  since, as his father also made clear, the Bickerson sketches were based on Mr. Rapp's exchanges with his wife, Mary, a former vaudeville dancer who died last year.
        "I've hidden under a lot of tables in my day," the younger Mr. Rapp said, recounting that, unlike the Bickersons, his parents often waged their battles in public.
        "My father would scurry off to the typewriter while the dialogue was still fresh," he said.
        The setup for every Bickerson sketch was Blanche's annoyance at being awakened by John's snoring. After likaning the sound to a screeching steamroller, she would shake him awake and the battle would be on, inevitably including some dismissive remarks about John's latest job, as a mattress tester, perhaps.
        The sketches ended with a wounded Mr. Bickerson bleating, "Awwwww, Blanche."
        In addition to his son Joel, Mr. Rapp is survived by another son, Paul, and three grandchildren, all of Los Angeles.
      