
        Sheik Gad al-Haq Ali Gad al-Haq, an influential voice of conservative Islam who headed Egypt's highest religious authority, died of a heart attack on Friday at his home in Cairo. He was 78.
        As the grand sheik of Al Azhar, one of the Muslim world's oldest and most renowned religious institutions, Sheik Gad al-Haq was a source of support and frustration for Egypt's secular Government during a time of deepening religious  sentiment in the country.
        Appointed to the post in 1982 by President Hosni Mubarak, Sheik Gad al-Haq spoke out strongly against the Muslim militants who have waged a violent campaign to overthrow the Government. But he also left officials vexed by issuing rulings that contravened Government policy by endorsing female circumcision and condemning travel to Israel.
        The influence of Al Azhar extends well beyond Egypt, and the death of Sheik Gad al-Haq could leave President Mubarak with a difficult decision as he seeks to install a successor acceptable to conservative Muslims but unlikely to undermine the Government's authority.
        In a statement on Friday, the President gave no hint of any strain between his Government and the cleric. He praised Sheik Gad al-Haq for preserving Al Azhar as "a podium for moderate, correct Islam that attracts the hearts of scholars, intellectuals and ordinary Muslims."
        Born April 5, 1917, in the Nile Delta province of Daqahliya, Sheik Gad al-Haq received his diploma of higher learning from Al Azhar in 1945. He served as an assistant to the mufti of Egypt and as a judge of Islamic law, and beginning in  1960 was a member of the Egyptian Higher Council for Islamic Affairs.
        Since 1978, when he was appointed mufti -- considered the top Government post for religious scholars -- he was widely recognized as a powerful conservative force, and as grand sheik of Al Azhar eclipsed the current mufti, Dr. Mohammed Said Tantawi, by hewing to a strict line of Muslim orthodoxy.
        Among his many disagreements with Dr. Tantawi and others among the Government's religious authorities were over questions about the permissibility  of organ transplants and the charging of interest on loans. Both are legal in Egypt, but Sheik Gad al-Haq argued that neither was acceptable under Islamic strictures.
        He also attracted international attention for his conservative stands during  United Nations conferences in 1994 and 1995.
        He spoke out vehemently against the United Nations population conference held in Egypt in 1994, criticizing participants for what he said was their acceptance of homosexual families, premarital sex and abortion.
        A month after that gathering, he issued a ruling that female genital mutilation, sometimes called female circumcision, was an Islamic duty. That opinion that was strongly denounced by women's rights advocates and others in Egypt, including some who argued that the practice had African rather than Islamic roots.
        Sheik Gad al-Haq similarly condemned the United Nations women's conference held in Beijing in 1995, saying its effect was to undermine morality by conveying support for homosexuality and extramarital sex.
        Under Sheik Gad al-Haq, Al Azhar maintained its decades-long ban on a novel,  "Children of Gebelawi," by the Nobel laureate Naguib Mahfouz, which the institution has said is heretical because it includes characters who clearly resemble figures from the Koran and the Bible.
        Earlier this year, the cleric put Al Azhar on the side of some of the world's strictest Islamic Governments by demanding tough punishment for Muslims who eat  or drink in public during the holy month of Ramadan. The authorities in countries like Saudi Arabia have long enforced the religious laws that require daytime fasting during Ramadan, but this has not been done in Egypt, which has a reputation for greater religious tolerance.
        Even so, Sheik Gad al-Haq was never embraced by the Muslim militants who are  trying to replace Egypt's secular Government with an Islamic state. They regarded him as too close to the Government, which they believed had co-opted Al Azhar, and he in turn made clear that he regarded those who have waged the campaign of violence not as Muslims but as common criminals.
        On Friday, the depth of his more mainstream following was evident as thousands took part in his funeral at the 1,000-year-old Al Azhar mosque, where  policemen and soldiers wielding automatic weapons blocked roads to provide security for Government ministers and Islamic and Coptic religious leaders.
        The sheik's wooden coffin was draped in an Egyptian flag, and mourners rushed to touch it as his body was borne from the mosque, while others shouted, "Gad al-Haq is the beloved of God."
        In front-page accounts today, Egyptian newspapers said he had died suddenly in the early hours of Friday morning as he prepared for night prayers.
        Among those who sent messages of condolence to President Mubarak were King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat and Pope Shenuda III,  the head of the Cairo-based Coptic Christian church.
        Sheik Gad al-Haq is survived by his wife and three sons, Egyptian newspapers  said.
      