
        Thomas O. Enders, a career diplomat who played a major role in the secret bombing of Cambodia during the Nixon Administration and guided the early Reagan  Administration policy in Central America, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64.
        The cause of death was melanoma, a form of skin cancer, according to a statement by Salomon Brothers Inc., where he was an international financial adviser after retiring from the State Department in 1986.
        A man of imposing size who climbed mountains in his spare time, Mr. Enders was a blunt-spoken conservative pragmatist whose diplomatic career included assignments as Ambassador to Canada and Spain, Assistant Secretary of State for  Economic and Business Affairs and Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
        While his career was highlighted by cold war intrigues in tropical climes, he also played a central role in reaching an agreement with Canada to construct a natural gas pipeline to the United States and in setting up a Reagan Administration program to increase United States trade with Latin America.
        Mr. Enders was born on Nov. 28, 1931, in Hartford, the son of an affluent Connecticut banker and nephew of John F. Enders, a Nobel Prize-winning virologist. He attended Yale, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in his junior year and was a prominent member of Scroll and Key, the select secret society known to provide a network for high-powered careers. He met his wife, Gaetana Marchegiano, the daughter of an Italian diplomat in Tangiers, in 1951, while he was doing research on the medieval economy of Morocco.
        Mr. Enders received master's degrees at the University of Paris and at Harvard University and joined the State Department in 1958.
        After working as an economic officer in Stockholm and Washington, he was made deputy chief of mission at the United States Embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, in 1969. But he quarreled openly with the Ambassador, William Leonhart, and was assigned to Washington.
        Self-confident but also aloof, Mr. Enders found himself through much of his career in the middle of tangles within the State Department and with officials of the Defense Department and the Central Intelligence Agency.
        "His brain power was towering," said Alexander M. Haig Jr., a former Secretary of State and a patron of Mr. Enders, "but he tolerated fools not easily, and that contributed to his reputation for brusqueness and perhaps impatience."
        Lawrence Pezzullo, who worked for Mr. Enders as Ambassador to Nicaragua in 1981, said: "He had the exterior of a very cold, difficult kind of person. But what was behind it was a very impressive intelligence and strength of character."
        Mr. Enders quickly rebounded from his setback in Yugoslavia, and he was assigned to Cambodia, where he became deputy chief of mission in 1971. There, Ambassador Emory C. Swank placed Mr. Enders in charge of a committee that reviewed and cleared requests by the Government of Prime Minister Lon Nol for secret American bombing raids on Cambodian territory occupied by North Vietnamese forces.
        Mr. Enders' role in the bombing, considered a vital component of President Nixon's efforts to bolster the Saigon Government during the withdrawal of American ground forces from South Vietnam, won him the recognition of Henry A. Kissinger, then the national security adviser. But it angered powerful members of Congress when he was accused of misleading two staff members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee who went to Phnom Penh in 1973 to investigate whether the American air strikes exceeded Congressional restrictions.
        A year later, when Mr. Kissinger, then the Secretary of State, promoted Mr. Enders to Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs, the Foreign Relations Committee delayed the appointment for several weeks as a mild protest.
        After serving as Ambassador to Canada and the United States representative to the European Economic Community, Mr. Enders was selected by Secretary of State Haig in 1981 as the first of three Assistant Secretaries of State for Inter-American Affairs in the Reagan Administration.
        Many Congressional Democrats considered Mr. Enders a hard-liner, largely because he strongly defended the Government of El Salvador during a period of frequent death-squad killings and army massacres. But he was considered something of a dove within the Administration for pressing for negotiations with leftists in both El Salvador and Nicaragua, and he fought bitterly with several  senior officials, including the American representative to the United Nations, Jeane Kirkpatrick, and William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence.
        In August 1981, before the contra guerrillas were anything more than a nuisance for the Nicaraguan Government, Mr. Enders flew to Managua for two days  of talks with the Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega Saavedra. The two forged a tentative agreement in which Washington would stop sending money to the contras  in return for the Sandinistas' promising to curtail their military build-up and  halt their backing of the guerrillas in El Salvador.
        But a State Department draft of the agreement was rewritten by the national security adviser, Richard Allen, to include blunt language that the Sandinistas  eventually rejected.
        "If President Reagan had bought on to what Enders sensed when he met with the comandantes," Ambassador Pezzullo said, "you would have very likely had a situation in which the contra war would have never occurred."
        Apart from his career, Mr. Enders was a mountaineer who climbed extensively through the Canadian Rockies and the Alps, and he collected rare books on travel and exploration.
        The funeral will be at 10 A.M. Wednesday at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Ave., followed by a private burial in Connecticut.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Enders is survived by three daughters, Domitila, of Manhattan, Claire Enders Thomson of London and Alice Roessler of Washington;  a son, Thomas, of Bethany, Conn.; three grandchildren; his brother, Anthony Enders of Manhattan, and a sister, Dr. March Enders Kornack of Washington.
      