
        Olga Rudge, the Ohio-born violinist who became companion, caretaker and champion of the brilliant but embattled poet Ezra Pound, died on Friday at the castle of their daughter near Merano in northern Italy. She was 101.
        Olga Rudge was a dark, pretty young woman, "a consummate violinist" in the words of the avant-garde composer George Antheil, when she forsook career, ego and respectability to share life with Pound after they met in 1916 through their common interest in music.
        Together, they resurrected the music of Antonio Vivaldi, discovering scores  of his violin and orchestra concertos in a Turin library and launching a revival of his works in the 1930's.
        Miss Rudge stood by Pound through his indictment on charges of treason for broadcasting Fascist propaganda from Italy during World War II and also through  the dozen years when he was held in the St. Elizabeths Hospital for the Criminally Insane in Washington. She arranged for publication of his works and campaigned for his release, and after he was set free in 1958, they returned to  their beloved Venice, where Pound died at 87 in 1972.
        In Venice, they lived for most of the year in a narrow, three-story house that Miss Rudge had owned since 1928. (Pound's wife, the former Dorothy Shakespear, who bore him a son, Omar Shakespear Pound, lived not far away in Merano.) Pound and Miss Rudge were the parents of a daughter, Princess Mary de Rachewiltz, whose 1971 memoir, "Discretions" -- a title that played on Pound's 1923 autobiographical reverie, "Indiscretions" -- depicted her father as kindly  if distant and her mother as selfish.
        The Rudge-Pound routine in his later years called for her to rise early and do the shopping while he remained in bed. In late morning, after his breakfast,  they would stroll arm in arm along the cobblestone promenade beside the Giudecca Canal.
        In good weather, they lunched outdoors in a restaurant, and in the afternoon, they walked along the Grand Canal.
        "Ezra!" she would call upstairs to the old eccentric when a visitor came. "Ezra, don't play possum! Do you want to come down or do we go up?" Sometimes she spoke to him sharply; other times she addressed him endearingly as "caro Carlo."
        Despite the opprobrium that attached to him because of his Fascist, anti-Semitic outpourings, Pound was an object of veneration for many who could separate the brilliance of his poetry from the vileness of his politics. And Miss Rudge, with her British accent and the air of a very proper Bostonian, stood between him and a sometimes overbearing public.
        "We get hippies coming here and when we're in Rapallo," she said the year before Pound died. "They have embraced the wisdom of Ezra Pound, but they haven't read him. One of them pitched a tent outside. I gave him coffee, but no  Ezra. Another was so persistent in his devotion that I told him, 'I'll let you in if you can quote one line of Ezra Pound -- any one of thousands he's written.' He couldn't. Others come to read him their poetry. They don't know his poetry, but they want him to praise theirs."
        "The worst, though, are the so-called 'biographers,' " she said. "They ring my bell and announce they are writing books that 'will tell both sides.' Both sides? Both sides! What do they think we are? Ezra Pound is no pancake!"
        Miss Rudge, who was born in Youngstown, Ohio, in 1895, had been living with her daughter at the time of her death.
        Pound's sole companion during the last dozen years of his life, Miss Rudge was at his side when he died. She is to be buried next to him in San Michele Cemetery on an island in the Venetian lagoon.
      