
        Rene Clement, the French director of the Oscar-winning 1952 film "Forbidden Games" -- about a little girl orphaned by war -- and 14 other movies that reflected life by blending the approach of the documentarian with a touch of poetic elegance, died on Sunday in southern France, a day before his 83d birthday.
        The French Academy of Fine Arts, of which he was a member and which announced his death, declined to disclose where he died.
        Among his other highly praised films was "Gervaise" (1956), the story of the tragic life of an indigent woman played by the German actress Maria Schell, in the working-class Paris of the mid-19th century. The film, which opened in New York in 1957, was an adaptation of a novel by Emile Zola.
        Preoccupied with World War II subjects during much of his career, Mr. Clement also directed "The Battle of the Rails," a vivid drama of the sabotage activities of the French resistance railway workers in World War II. And he made "Is Paris Burning?" (1966), which had long runs in theaters around the world, though it met with less critical success.
        But it was in "Forbidden Games" -- or "Jeux Interdits" -- that his attention  to detail and his fascination with the ravages of war produced what critics agreed was his finest work. In addition to its Oscar for best foreign film, it won awards thoughout Europe, except at the Cannes Film Festival, where it was passed over as an entry because the film-selection committee evidently regarded  it as too somber.
        A scandal soon erupted. The producer of the festival decided to show the film in Cannes but outside of the competition, and for one of the few times in the history of the festival, it won the unanimous approval of all the critics who saw it. An unofficial luncheon was organized and it was announced that the "journalists, screenwriters and cinema technicians present deplore the fact that France did not officially present 'Forbidden Games,' a film which in their opinion would have won first prize."
        "Forbidden Games" begins with a German bombing of French refugees from Paris  who are attempting to escape the Nazi advance in June 1940. The mother and father of 5-year-old Paulette are killed, and the child is found by 10-year-old  Michel, who takes her home to his farm family. There, the little girl, who accepted the death of her parents with less emotion than she showed for the death of her pet dog, learns to feel loss because she learns to feel love.
        At one point in the film adults are tossing corpses into unmarked graves. "This is no time to die," someone says, meaning wartime. "You won't even get a box." The two youngsters decide to create a cemetery for animals. The children,  though they lie and steal for one another, are the innocents among the guilty. They practice reverence for the dead in a time of mass killing and kindness in an angry world.
        The film's score by the guitar virtuoso Narcisco Yepes included the piece "Romance," which has sold millions of recordings.
        The impact of war on children affected Mr. Clement deeply, in part from an experience he had in making an earlier movie, "The Walls of Malapaga" (1950), which won an honorary Oscar as the outstanding foreign-language film. He had placed a shy, intelligent child actress on a movie set and stopped her in mid-scene to say, "What you are doing is very good, but why do you keep your hand in your pocket?" In tears, the girl pulled her hand from her pocket to reveal it was badly mutilated, the result of a World War II bombardment.
        Mr. Clement was seen as a brilliant "imitator" of life. Francois Truffaut, who died in 1984, wrote, in "The Films in My Life" that Mr.  Clement's subtle directorial touch allowed the viewer to see the craftsmanship of the set designers, the writers and the stars in the movies he directed. But, he said, Mr. Clement did not deal well with the inner emotions of his characters.
        Mr. Clement was born in Bordeaux and had been making movies since 1933. His last film was "The Baby Sitter," released in 1975.
      