
        Jonathan Larson, the composer and author of the musical "Rent," which had been scheduled to begin previews at the New York Theater Workshop last night, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 35.
        James C. Nicola, the artistic director of the New York Theater Workshop, said that an autopsy would be performed to determine the cause of death. Last night's preview of the show was canceled, and the company announced that it would sing the score for Mr. Larson's friends and family at the theater instead.
        Mr. Larson had returned home on Wednesday night after the show's final dress rehearsal. The production of "Rent," a modern rock opera version of "La Boheme"  set in the East Village in Manhattan, was the composer's first major New York effort.
        In writing music for dance, film and television as well as theater, he had won several prestigious prizes, including the Richard Rodgers Studio Production  Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters for the 1994 workshop version of "Rent." He also won a Stephen Sondheim Award from the American Music  Theater Festival and took part in Ascap's musical theater workshop.
        He composed the score for "J. P. Morgan Saves the Nation," an En Garde Arts site-specific musical that was staged last summer on the steps of the Federal Hall National Memorial on Wall Street. The eclectic score ran from rock to ragtime and accompanied Jeffrey M. Jones's book.
        Mr. Larson received a Richard Rodgers Development Grant for his futuristic rock musical "Superbia," which was given a workshop at Playwrights Horizons. The composer performed his rock monologue "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!" at the New York Theater Workshop, among other theaters. He also contributed songs to "Sesame Street" and was working on "Loony Tune-Ups" for Warner Brothers Animation.
        He was born in White Plains, N.Y., and played the tuba in the White Plains high school marching band. At Adelphi University, he collaborated on many musicals, and when he graduated set out to become an actor. He credited Mr. Sondheim with encouraging him to concentrate on his work as a composer, which he did while also working as a waiter. He stopped waiting on tables when "Rent" went into rehearsal. The musical, directed by Michael Greif, is scheduled to open on Feb. 13 as planned.
        He is survived by his parents, Allan and Nanette Larson of Albuquerque, N.M., and by a sister, Julie Larson McCollum of Los Angeles.
      