
        Claude Bourdet, a Resistance leader who emerged a starveling from the Nazi concentration camp at Buchenwald to become a leader of France's postwar non-Communist left, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 86.
        A founder of the newspaper Combat and the political weekly L'Observateur, Mr. Bourdet was one of only a few hundred heroes to be designated a Compagnon de la  Liberation by Charles de Gaulle for his membership in the National Resistance Council and his leadership of the Resistance movement Combat.
        He was also an outspoken intellectual and cold-war neutralist unafraid to condemn French repression in Algeria and a resurgence of French anti-Semitism.
        On a spring dawn in 1956, when Mr. Bourdet was editor of L'Observateur, he was arrested at his home, handcuffed and hauled off to be strip-searched at Fresnes Prison, where the Gestapo had taken him upon his arrest in 1944. The 1956 seizure followed a series of articles in which Mr. Bourdet attacked the French campaign to destroy the guerrillas battling for Algerian independence and condemned plans to call up 100,000 military reservists.
        "One hundred thousand young Frenchmen are threatened with being thrown into the 'dirty war' of Algeria, with losing the best years of their lives, perhaps with being wounded, indeed killed, for a cause that few among them approve, in a kind of combat that revolts most of them," he wrote.
        At sundown Mr. Bourdet was released, and in his first post-prison editorial,  he observed: "When somebody rings your bell at 6 A.M. and it is the milkman, you are in a democracy."
        In 1958 he wrote that "anti-Semitic gangrene" had reappeared in France and noted that non-Jews had been attacked as Jews merely because they disagreed with emotional opinions on the war in Algeria. From such assaults, he inferred, "these anti-Semites today feel sufficiently encouraged and protected to give public effect to the violence of their sentiments."
        Known as a "progressist" -- liberal without being identified with the Communist line -- Mr. Bourdet joined eminent French writers like Andre Gide and  the actor Louis Jouvet in 1949 in calling upon the French Government to conduct  a plebiscite in Indochina under the auspices of the United Nations to end the fighting in its colony.
        In 1945, when he was liberated by Americans from Buchenwald, Mr. Bourdet weighed just 90 pounds. But he had been trained as an engineer, and so he was named director of Radiodiffusion Francaise, the French broadcasting system. A few months later he joined the newspaper Combat, which had been founded by his underground organization and sought to retain the spirit of the Resistance.
        During the war Mr. Bourdet conceived one of the most inspired Resistance plans -- to infiltrate all public administration offices in France. As a result, Resistance fighters were to be found in the post offices, among the police and on the railways.
        In 1947, he succeeded Albert Camus as editor of Combat. He resigned in 1950 to found L'Observateur, which later became Le Nouvel Observateur.
        Mr. Bourdet also served as a member of the Paris Municipal Council and with various peace and disarmament organizations. He remained active well into his 70's, writing books and articles and commenting on world affairs.
        When Germany was reunified in 1990, he sat in his elegant two-story apartment on Avenue George V and addressed the question of whether its people had changed  in 50 years.
        "I'm hesitant to say because I don't think there is an evil character in the  German soul," he replied. "I don't think the Germans are any worse than anyone else. I think the danger comes in the extraordinary power of obedience. I think  that explains the Nazis and the Third Reich. You never know about tomorrow."
        Mr. Bourdet, who was born in Paris on Oct. 28, 1909, was the son of a prominent dramatist, Edouard Bourdet, and the former Catherine Pozzi, a poet. He was trained at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, and from 1936 to 1939 served with the office of the French Economics Ministry. In 1940 and 1941 he managed a soap and oil company.
        Mr. Bourdet was married in 1935 to Ida Adamoff. They had three children, Nicolas, Catherine and Louis.
      