
        Fray Angelico Chavez, a multitalented Franciscan priest whose outpouring of poems, paintings, stories and historical writings celebrated and chronicled the  early history of New Mexico, died on Monday at a nursing home in Santa Fe. He was 85.
        His family said the cause was complications from a brain hemorrhage.
        A 12th-generation New Mexican who traced his ancestry to the area's first Spanish settlement in 1598 and who spent much of his life researching and writing about those long-ago days, Fray Angelico did not so much live in the past as make the past come alive in a series of articles, monographs, short stories, and 23 books, among them "Origins of New Mexico Families," "Missions of New Mexico," "New Mexico Triptych," "My Penitente Land" and "The Lady From Toledo," his only novel. Most of the books are out of print, but "Origins" has recently been reissued by the Museum of New Mexico Press.
        For all that, perhaps his most significant historical contribution was carrying out the monumental task of cataloguing the archives of the Archdiocese  of New Mexico, which were later dedicated to him.
        Even as a parish priest, Fray Angelico was animated by his sense of history,  restoring and rebuilding old churches in small-town New Mexico, and in one celebrated case, using villagers and his own sisters as models for a series of frescoes he painted in a church in Pena Blanca depicting the Stations of the Cross.
        Although Fray Angelico regarded the frescoes as his greatest work of art, the church apparently did not see it that way. In 1987 the century-old church was torn down, destroying the paintings.
        A native of Wagon Mound whose original name was Manuel Ezequiel Chavez, he adopted the name of the famous 15th century Italian priest and artist Fra Angelico de Fiesole while studying for the priesthood in a Franciscan seminary in Cincinnati.
        Fray Angelico, who was ordained in 1937 and later served as a military chaplain in the Pacific during World War II and in Europe during the Korean conflict, did not always see eye to eye with the church.
        In 1964, after five years as a pastor in Cerrillos (typically, he repaired the parish church and rebuilt a smaller church in a nearby town) he left the parish to write and conduct his researches full time.
        In 1971 he withdrew from the Franciscan community altogether, but retained his standing as a priest while continuing his writing and research. He returned  to the community in 1989 and lived at the friary at the Cathedral in Santa Fe.
        In the last decades of his life, he became a familiar figure in downtown Santa Fe, a jaunty man with a cigar and a black beret who could inevitably be found having his morning coffee at the Plaza Cafe and later holding court over a scotch or so at the San Francisco Street Bar and Grill.
        For all his achievements in the arts, the full range of his talents was not always appreciated, partly because like his historical works, his short stories, which generally involved a moral conflict, were invariably set in the early days of New Mexico, a circumstance that sometimes confused his admirers.
        Once, according to an oft-told story, he was congratulated for tracking down  and recording New Mexican folk tales handed down over the generations.
        "What do you mean I recorded them?" he replied. "I made them up."
        He is survived by four brothers, Francisco, Fabian and Jose, all of Santa Fe, and Antonio of Albuquerque, and four sisters, Martha Matt of Salem, Ore., Adela  Montoya of Albuquerque, Consuelo Gorski of Detroit and Nora Chavez of Santa Fe.
      