
        Col. Robert F. Overmyer, 59, who commanded one of the last successful flights of the space shuttle Challenger, died on Friday when a small plane he was testing went into a spin and crashed.
        Colonel Overmyer was wearing a parachute, but could not free himself, said Carolyn Overmyer, one of his daughters.
        "Being a test pilot, he knows the risks," she said. "But that was the love of his life."
        Colonel Overmyer was testing the small-engine VK30 prototype plane for the manufacturer, the Cirrus Design Corporation, when it went down near Duluth International Airport. Cirrus hired him as a test pilot last year.
        Colonel Overmyer, of the Marine Corps, was born in Lorain, Ohio, and considered the Cleveland suburb of Westlake home. He once said that growing up to the sounds of low-flying aircraft from the Cleveland airport instilled in him an obsession for flying.
        In the 1960's he was headed for participation in the Air Force's Manned Orbiting Laboratory Program, and in 1969, after that program had been canceled,  he joined the astronaut corps of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. His first assignment was to aid in the engineering development of Skylab, the space laboratory that was launched in 1973.
        He was a member of the support crew for Apollo 17, the last lunar mission. It was Colonel Overmyer's voice, as "capsule communicator," that reassured those aboard the spacecraft as it soared into orbit. From 1973 to 1975 he was a support crew member for the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project.
        In 1976, Colonel Overmyer began working with the space shuttle program. He was the pilot of the first fully operational flight of the shuttle Columbia, which was launched on Nov. 11, 1982. There had been four previous test flights.
        Colonel Overmyer also commanded the Challenger mission that flew from April 29 to May 6, 1985. The mission carried various animals, including two squirrel monkeys. The monkeys were not Colonel Overmyer's favorite passengers; he expressed considerable annoyance when waste leaked from their cages into the shuttle laboratory and the cockpit.
        The Challenger flew two more times before it exploded Jan. 28, 1986. Colonel  Overmyer also served on the commission that investigated that explosion.
        After leaving NASA, Colonel Overmyer was director of operations at McDonnell  Douglas. He left the company last year.
        In addition to his daughter Carolyn, of Clear Lake, Tex., Colonel Overmyer is survived by his wife, Katherine; another daughter, Patricia Armstrong of Woodland, Tex., and a son, Robert, of Manhattan Beach, Calif.
      