
        Gyula Kallai, a Hungarian intellectual who shared the vagaries of postwar Communism at the side of Janos Kadar, the party chief installed after the 1956 uprising, died on March 12 after a long illness, news dispatches from Budapest reported. He was 85.
        Mr. Kallai tried to balance his positions as a Hungarian patriot with the tenets of Marxism as laid down by Stalin and his successors in the Kremlin. He held various Cabinet portfolios in the Communist republic established in 1949 before being arrested with Mr. Kadar in 1951 as a "Titoist."
        Both were held in a concentration camp but were "rehabilitated" in 1954 when the terror of the Stalin era began to fade into history. The Soviet Union chose  Mr. Kadar as Hungary's leader after the 1956 revolt was put down, and Mr. Kadar  made Mr. Kallai his chief lieutenant.
        He served as First Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister and party secretary. A leading party ideologist, he spoke harshly of Titoism and in 1960, jousted in  public with Erik Molnar, Hungary's leading Communist historian, when Mr. Molnar  questioned the fundamental Marxist view that internal contractions would inevitably doom the capitalist system.
        At the same time, Mr. Kallai helped put his country on the road to economic reforms and improved relations with the West, in particular the United States. He was at the center of the subtle maneuvering with the Vatican and Washington that led to freedom in 1971 for Joszef Cardinal Mindszenty, who had taken refuge in the United States Legation in Budapest 15 years before, with the police holding round-the-clock vigil outside.
        In a Government shuffle, Mr. Kallai stepped down as Prime Minister in 1967 but continued to hold senior party posts until the 1989 elections, which ended the Communist monopoly on power.
        Mr. Kallai was born the son of a village bootmaker in 1910 and joined the Communists as a student in 1931. He was jailed for his political agitation in 1939.
        He earned a university degree in philosophy and worked as a writer and journalist. After the end of World War II in 1945 he rose swiftly through party  ranks.
        Mr. Kallai is survived by his wife and two daughters.
      