
        Norman Clinton Keith, a Presbyterian minister's son who founded three oil companies and briefly served as acting president of Springfield College in Springfield, Mass., died on March 15 at his home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 83.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a daughter, Ann Keith Horn.
        Mr. Keith graduated from Springfield College in 1936 and went to work in Philadelphia for the Standard Oil Company of New York, now the Mobil Oil Corporation, for $90 a month. He landed the job during the Depression because he had come to the attention of an oil executive who had hired him to tutor his sons.
        Two years later, Mr. Keith formed the Keith Oil Company, which became the largest fuel-oil supplier in the Philadelphia area.
        During World War II, as a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve, he ran the $1.25 billion oil lend-lease program.
        In 1945, Mr. Keith founded the Petroleum Export Company. Two years later, he  started the Petroleum Marketing Corporation, which in 1970 merged with the Commonwealth Oil Refining Company.
        He retired briefly but grew distressed about the management of Commonwealth Oil, in which he still held a stake, and came back to act as the company's chief executive. Commonwealth operated a Puerto Rican refinery that was largely tax-exempt and unhampered by restrictions on oil imports to the United States. In 1972, Mr. Keith signed an $8 billion deal for a 25-year supply of crude oil from Algeria.
        In 1975, Mr. Keith fought a hostile takeover bid by the Tesoro Petroleum Corporation. After Tesoro raised its bid by 24 percent, to $14.25 a share from $11.50, making the deal worth $206 million, or about $602 million in today's dollars, Mr. Keith approved the takeover. He retired in 1976.
        When Springfield College was between presidents in 1965, Mr. Keith stepped in.
        He was also chairman of the board of trustees of the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va., from 1991 to 1992, and was a trustee of the Landon School in Washington and the Boys' Club of New York.
        Mr. Keith, whose first two marriages ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Kathleen Hanley Keith; daughters, Jocelyn Keith of New Canaan, Conn., Ann  Keith Horn of South Salem, N.Y., and Normandie Keith of Manhattan; and sons, Ralph, of Greenwich, Conn., Quentin, of West Hartford, Conn., and Jonathan, of Bend, Ore.
      