
        The way Noel Johnson always told it, by the time he hit the down slope of his 60's he was so overweight and so out of shape it was all he could do to lift his cigarette to his lips.
        As far as any serious exercise was concerned, Mr. Johnson, a retired tool maker, had a ready answer. His doctor had told him that anything as strenuous as mowing the lawn would kill him.
        When his son told him that he was about ready for a rest home, Mr. Johnson drew the line. Given no more than six months to live because of a heart condition, he decided that he did not have much to lose.
        So he ignored the medical warning and started walking, and then running.
        Sure enough he died, although to be fair, it took longer than the doctor thought.
        When Noel Johnson died at his home in San Diego on Sunday, he was 95.
        He had spent the last quarter of a century setting age records in everything  from the half mile to the marathon, astounding physicians and serving as poster  geezer for the proposition that the active life promotes longevity.
        Indeed, Mr. Johnson, who was regularly the oldest man to complete the New York City Marathon in the 1980's, became a prize specimen in a medical study that established that runners tend to live longer than nonrunners and that the more they run the longer they live.
        Doctors who examined him generally reported that he had the respiratory system of men half his age.
        Mr. Johnson, whose training regimen through his 80's called for nine-mile runs three times a week followed by workouts on a stationary bicycle, with weight training on the off days, also became a nutrition faddist.
        Although he stressed moderation, he once went for weeks drinking nothing but  lemonade laced with sorghum.
        Running marathons helped make him a celebrity, and in 1977 he received the ultimate accolade of fitness. He was pictured on Wheaties boxes.
        He became a lecturer, engaged a public-relations representative and wrote two books, "A Dud at 70, a Stud at 80," and "The Living Proof," which was published  in 1990.
        He was also willing to lend his name to nutritional causes, although by the time he embraced bee pollen at the age of 78, he had already accomplished so many remarkable feats that it was hard to argue it had any special role in keeping him going.
        Mr. Johnson, who was of Norwegian descent, was born in Heron Lake, Minn., and worked on a farm as a youth. In the Depression he became a professional boxer and then headed west, settling in San Diego in 1939.
        Although he ran the high-altitude Pikes Peak Marathon twice and ran once as far away as Bangkok, he made his biggest splash in New York. Mr. Johnson, who holds the 26.2-mile race's age records for 84-year-olds (5 hours 42 minutes 19 seconds) and 88-year-olds (7:40:58), ran in his last New York race at the age of 90 in 1989, but did not finish.
        In an interview three years later he made it clear that he had no regrets about his athletic pursuits. "I'd rather be 92 years young," he said, "than 70 years old."
        Surviving are a son, James, and a daughter, Betty Lou Webb, both of San Diego; 3 grandchildren, 9 great-grandchildren and 1 great-great-grandchild.
        Correction:  January 29, 1996, Monday
        An obituary on Friday about Noel Johnson, a distance runner who set records in several age categories, misstated his age at death. He was 96, not 95.
      