
        Christopher Robin Milne, immortalized as the young friend of Winnie-the-Pooh  in the children's stories of his father, A. A. Milne, has died, The Times of London reported today. He was 75.
        The newspaper said he died on Saturday, but it did not say where he died or give the cause of death.
        Mr. Milne was born in London in 1920 and was known as an adult to resent the melding of his real childhood and the fictional one in his father's tales.
        In 1924, Alan Alexander Milne, already well-known for his light hand at literature and fiction, published a book of verse inspired by his 4-year-old son, "When We Were Very Young."
        His son's affection for a bear named Winnie at the London zoo became the model of hugely successful children's books -- "Winnie-the-Pooh" (1926), "Now We are Six" (1927), and "The House at Pooh Corner" (1928). The stories were later brought to film by Disney.
        In photographs, it was clear how closely A. A. Milne had modeled the fictional Christopher Robin on his son: the same wide, inquisitive brown eyes, the same carefully cropped mop top, the same gingham smock.
        But the grown Christopher Milne displayed a tendency to counter his father's  wishes. He dropped out of Cambridge in 1939 to enlist in the army, and was wounded in Italy during World War II.
        He married a cousin, Lesley de Selincourt, in 1949 -- again, not his father's preference -- and became a bookseller, settling in Stoke Fleming on England's southwestern coast. Together they had a daughter.
        He endured countless parents pressing Pooh books into his hands and asking for an autograph; in return he asked for a donation for his favorite charity, Save the Children.
        His father died in 1956, and Mr. Milne remained silent about the effect of the series' immense popularity on his life until 1974, when he published "The Enchanted Places." It was followed by "The Path Through the Trees" in 1979 and "The Hollow on the Hill" in 1982.
        Mr. Milne described his father as a man who used his small son's youth to stave off his own middle age.
        "When I was three, my father was three," he wrote. "When I was six, he was six," adding "he needed me to escape from being 50."
        He said his father kept his only child at a distance: "His heart remained buttoned up all through his life."
        He also resented the confusing of his childhood with popular legend, and he himself could not remember whether it was the real or fictional Christopher Robin who invented the game of "Pooh sticks," dropping sticks from a wooden bridge into a flowing stream.
        Nonetheless, he was not averse to invoking his own name when he found a cause was worthy, like his efforts to protect Ashdown Forest, which was used as the setting of some of his father's stories.
        He is survived by his wife and daughter. Funeral arrangements were not immediately known.
      