
        Jimmy Snyder, known as "Jimmy the Greek," an oddsmaker and football personality who brought gambling to the forefront of televised sports but was fired by CBS Sports for saying that black Americans were better athletes than whites because of physical traits dating back to slavery, died yesterday in a Las Vegas, Nev., hospital. He was 76.
        He had spent the last year in a hotel or hospital room in Las Vegas or in Durham, N.C., where he and his wife, Joan, had lived.
        A friend, Tommy Manakides, said that Mr. Snyder had suffered from diabetes and had been in declining health and died of a coronary at Transitional Hospitals.
        Mr. Snyder was born Demetrios Georgios Synodinos in Ohio, and his family's roots are in the Greek island of Chios in the Aegean Sea. He was raised in Steubenville, Ohio.
        "He got involved in sports at a young age," Mr. Manakides said of the high school dropout, "and he would follow all the newspapers and all the sporting events going on" and he began compiling sports data.
        As a teen-ager in Steubenville, Mr. Snyder kept company with bookmakers, laying bets chiefly on college basketball and football games. Later he took money he had won by gambling and invested it in oil-drilling and coal strip-mining ventures.
        But after some bad luck as an investor -- "22 dry wells" is how he once described it -- he made his way to Las Vegas in 1956, and there he became known  as an oddsmaker on the weekly pro football betting line. In 1968, he gave this terse summary of his analytical techniques in football: "Overall team speed is the biggest factor. Then the front four on defense. Then the back defense, especially the cornerbacks. Then the quarterbacks, and then I have to consider the intangibles."
        Mr. Snyder went on to spend 12 years as the betting analyst, specializing in  forecasts intended to help bettors, on the CBS Sports program, "The N.F.L. Today," -- aired each Sunday in the pro football season -- to mixed reviews. Mr. Snyder often spoke vaguely or indecisively in appraising games, which gave rise  to another, lesser-known nickname, "Jimmy the Meek."
        But he was not meek when he remarked -- among other things -- in a videotaped luncheon interview with Ed Hotaling of WRC, a Washington television station: "During the slave period, the slave owner would breed his big black with his big woman so that he could have a big black kid -- that's where it all started."
        Mr. Snyder made his statement, which was broadcast on Martin Luther King Jr.  Day in a 1988 WRC report about blacks' progress in society.
        Mr. Snyder was swiftly fired by CBS Sports, which issued a statement saying,  "In no way do these comments reflect the view of CBS Sports."
        Afterward, Mr. Snyder observed, with regard to his remarks, "What a foolish thing to say." He also complained of chest pains and spent a few days in a Durham hospital.
        For his part, Floyd H. Flake, a Democratic Congressman from Queens, wrote that Mr. Snyder made "racially offensive statements and racial slurs more acceptable" with such comments.
        Jesse Jackson, who was then a presidential candidate, criticized Mr. Snyder's remarks but said that he should not be a scapegoat for the sports world's failure to hire more black managers. The Miami Herald published an editorial on  what it called the ignorance reflected in Mr. Snyder's remarks. And The New York Times sports columnist George Vecsey derided what he called "the Jimmy the Greek Television Bookie School of Genetics."
        After the 1988 uproar, Mr. Snyder lived relatively quietly and wrote a betting column for a Las Vegas newspaper. But on one summer morning in 1992 at the Saratoga Race Course, he mused to a reporter: "The 3-year-old colts? The division is wide open."
        The Snyders lost three children to cystic fibrosis. Tina died at 2 1/2; Florence at 30 days, and son Jamie at 27.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Snyder is survived by a son, Anthony Snyder; daughters Vicki Snyder and Stephanie Snyder, all of Steubenville; John Synodinos of Wintersville, Ohio; sisters Mary Papalios of Athens, Marika Berris of Steubenville, and Angela Kayafas of Wintersville, and one grandson.
      