
        Abbot Low Moffat, a powerful New York State legislator during the Depression  who in a second career as a diplomat warned against American involvement in Vietnam, died on Wednesday at a retirement home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 94.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In a career that spanned much of the century, Mr. Abbot was chairman of the  State Assembly's powerful Ways and Means Committee during the 1930's, helped run the Marshall Plan in Europe during the 1940's and served as chief of the Southeast Asian affairs division in the United States Department of State during the 1940's.
        As a legislator from the 15th Assembly District in Manhattan, he controlled every piece of legislation that affected New York City. He was the first to propose building a multilane highway from Manhattan to Buffalo that later became the New York State Thruway. He also wrote a report that served as the basis for  major revisions in the New York City Charter in the 1940's.
        Mr. Moffat's influence was felt well beyond Albany. As a diplomat, he helped  mold United States policy toward newly independent nations in Southeast Asia after World War II. He warned repeatedly about a surge of nationalism in regions like Indochina. And he strongly disapproved of the United States' growing involvement in Vietnam.
        Abbot Low Moffat was born on the Upper East Side on May 12, 1901. He graduated from the Groton school in Manhattan, and received a bachelor's degree  from Harvard in 1923 and then a law degree from Columbia University.
        As a young man, he traveled the world with a sense of adventure. He rode for  25 days in a cart through Indochina, accompanied by a Chinese boy and a Russian  refugee. From Australia, he stowed away on a freighter bound for the Panama Canal. And he studied at the School of Surveying of the American Geographical Society with a view to doing exploration work for museums.
        He entered politics in 1929, winning election to the Assembly at age 27. He was among a small group of insurgent Republicans who took control of the Assembly from the leadership of their own party, ushering in an era when the Legislature played a far greater role in state politics than it had in earlier decades.
        "It was a period of great legislative ascendancy," said Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute in Albany. "They were very assertive in establishing their own priorities and not just accept the Governor's priorities."
        Mr. Moffat helped shape the current system of state budgeting and proposed fiscal changes that only came into fruition decades later. He fought his greatest battle with Gov. Herbert H. Lehman. He led what historians call the 1939 budget revolt, when the Legislature rewrote the Governor's budget and cut it. The case wound up in court, with the Legislature losing, in a decision Mr. Moffat long felt was wrong but which everyone agrees profoundly strengthened the hand of the Governor in budget making.
        Mr. Moffat, a liberal Republican, was the only New York City legislator in a  triumvirate that ran the Assembly. In the 1950's, he switched to the Democratic  Party, after years of prodding by his wife, Marion.
        His tenure in Albany, from 1929 to 1943, was under three Governors, Franklin  D. Roosevelt, Mr. Lehman and Thomas E. Dewey. While Dewey gets much of the credit in history books for the highway that runs from the New York City line to Albany and then west, to Buffalo, it was Mr. Moffat who, while riding to Albany  on Route 9, decided that something better was needed. He called the public works commissioner and asked him to draw up plans for the highway so he could enact a  bill.
        "They told me, 'You'll never get that bill through,' " Mr. Moffat recalled years later. "I said, 'If the chairman of Ways and Means says he'll get the bill, he'll get the bill.' "
        He got the bill through. But much of the road was not built until Governor Dewey organized an authority to issue bonds to pay for it, an act that won the Governor the honor of having the highway ultimately renamed for him. "I still begrudge naming it after him," Mr. Moffat once said. "I thought that was a little extreme just because he got the financing going. But that's all right, except I just call it the New York State Thruway and let it go at that."
        When he left Albany in 1943, Mr. Moffat set out on a career in the Foreign Service. He made a name for himself yet again, particularly representing the United States in Asia. He visited the Vietnamese nationalist leader Ho Chi Minh  in 1946, and the cables he sent back are now widely regarded as prescient warnings about the course of American policy in Vietnam.
        As head of the State Department's Division of South-East Asia Affairs from 1944 to 1947, he expressed great concern about the hard line the United States had taken in confronting nationalist movements like the one Ho Chi Minh was leading in Vietnam.
        "I was bitterly disappointed," he said years later. "But the die was cast. We were going to follow a hard line on Communism wherever it put up its ugly head.  I thought we were right back in the wars of religion."
        He retired from foreign service in 1962 and moved to Princeton, where he remained active in local political and civic affairs. He also went on to write "Mongkut, the King of Siam" -- a project suggested to him by the king's great-nephews, who had been upset with the portrayal of the ruler as a capricious despot in the popular musical "The King and I," and wanted to set the record straight.
        Mr. Moffat is survived by a son, Burnham Moffat of Danville, Calif.,; two daughters, Nancy Lifland of Princeton, and Jane-Kerin Moffat of Cos Cob, Conn.;  eight grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      