
        Robert Hersant, France's leading newspaper and magazine publisher, whose best-known property was the conservative daily Le Figaro, died on Sunday at his  home in the Paris suburb of St.-Cloud. He was 76. The cause of death was not given.
        Other important titles in his group, which controls some 30 percent of French newspaper circulation, include the Paris evening paper France-Soir and Le Courrier de l'Ouest, a large regional newspaper serving western France.
        Mr. Hersant was a secretive, ambitious man of modest origins who built his group up from nothing over four decades starting with a motor magazine.
        He was also a figure of controversy, who was once punished for collaboration  with the Nazis and whose enemies accused him of pursuing a political career in the French Parliament and the European Parliament at Strasbourg with the aim of  advancing his business interests.
        His voracious appetite for takeovers earned him such nicknames as "Citizen H," after the Orson Welles film "Citizen Kane," and "papivore" or paper-eater.
        "He wasn't a newsman who owned newspapers," Jean d'Ormesson, a French intellectual and member of the Academie Francaise who was a friend of Mr. Hersant, told France-Info radio on Sunday. "He was a media entrepreneur."
        Foreign Minister Herve de Charette paid tribute to Mr. Hersant's memory, and  underscored his close ties to the political world. "Business leader, media man, Robert Hessant held an eminent place in our country," Mr. de Charette said.
        Nevertheless, the Hersant Group, which is privately owned and publishes no accounts, is believed to be facing financial difficulties, with estimated debts  of $700 million on estimated revenues of about $1.17 billion.
        French financial commentators speculate that it may not survive in its present form. The group recently sold some leisure magazines and a regional paper to raise cash.
        A native of Brittany and the son of a master mariner, Mr. Hersant was born in the western French town of Vertou in 1920, studied at Rouen and in 1940 went to  Paris, where he joined a pro-Nazi movement called Jeune Front. He also received  permission from the German occupation authorities to start a paper supporting Marshal Petain, the leader of the collaborationist French regime, though it never appeared.
        For this association with fascism he was sentenced after the liberation to a  month in prison and 10 years' loss of civil rights, though he was pardoned in 1952. In 1950 he founded his first magazine, L'Auto Journal.
        He served in the French Parliament from 1956 to 1978. At first he was aligned with the left and associated with Francois Mitterrand, the Socialist leader who  later became President. He later switched to the conservative forces loyal to Valery Giscard d'Estaing, who was also elected President, although he retained close ties with Mr. Mitterrand.
        In 1984 Mr. Hersant was elected to the European Parliament in Strasbourg as a conservative, and served there until his death.
        During all these years Mr. Hersant relentlessly built up his press empire, acquiring a string of specialist magazines and more than 20 regional newspapers  all over France. He streamlined operations by combining technical services, like printing, with those of other papers.
        In 1986 he defied a law passed by the Socialist Government then in power. Known as the "anti-Hersant law," it limited press ownership. Mr. Hersant correctly calculated that the right would come to power in that year's elections and repeal the law.
        He also expanded into Belgium and more recently into Poland, Hungary and the  Czech Republic. He acquired Le Figaro in 1975 and France-Soir a year later.
        Critics accused him of using his political connections to secure credit to finance these takeovers from France's then largely state-owned banking system and to protect his interests against attempts to break up his empire by those who feared he was creating a newspaper monopoly.
        Several prominent conservative politicians, including Alain Peyrefitte and Jean-Francois Deniau, worked for his companies.
        In 1987 Mr. Hersant joined forces with the Italian media tycoon Silvio Berlusconi to found France's fifth television network, La Cinq, which collapsed  in 1992 with substantial losses.
        He is survived by his wife and eight children.
      