
        Dr. Arthur P. Davis, whose long career as a teacher, author, editor and custodian of black literature helped inspire generations of young black American writers, died on Sunday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 91 and lived in Washington.
        Dr. Davis's inspiration had come from the Harlem Renaissance, whose leaders he befriended in his student days in New York. The writers and intellectuals he  in turn encouraged over the years included Houston Baker, Amiri Baraka, Paula Giddings and Spottswood W. Robinson 3d.
        He taught at Howard University from 1944 to 1980, when he retired as university professor emeritus of English. He wrote and edited milestone works on black American literary history and scholarship.
        He was a co-editor of "The Negro Caravan: Writings by American Negroes," a journey through black American literture that was all but ignored when it first  appeared in 1941. But it acquired the status of a legend and an honored place in black intellectual life.
        A 1,082-page work, it was rescued as a college standard on black literature in 1969 by Arno Press at what was then a daunting cost of $35 a copy, but with the promise of an affordable paperback edition for more general readers. Dr. Davis also wrote "From the Dark Tower: Afro-American Writers From 1900 to 1960"  (Howard University Press, 1974), which was an anthology culled from his academic work.
        He was a co-editor of "Cavalcade: Negro American Writers from 1760 to the Present" (Houghton, 1971). Later, he was co-editor of an amended two-volume "The New Cavalcade" (1990) and another follow-up, "The New Cavalcade II" (1992). Both were published by Howard and remain in print, as does a 1981 reissue of "From the Dark Tower."
        Arthur Paul Davis was born in Hampton, Va., the son of a plasterer. He was a  Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Columbia College, class of 1927, and earned a master's at Columbia in 1929 and a doctorate in 18th-century English literature. The first book he wrote was "Isaac Watts: His Life and Works," a biography of the English clergyman and writer of hymns.
        As a student he got to know Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen and other leaders of the Harlem Renaissance, and he remembered meeting Paul Robeson and W. E. B. Du Bois socially. Many years later he was co-editor, with Michael Peplow, of "The New Negro Renaissance: An Anthology" (Holt, 1975).
        He started his teaching career at North Carolina College for Negroes (now North Carolina Central University) in Durham as an instructor in 1927. He moved  to Virginia Union University in Richmond in 1929 and was a full professor by the time he joined the Howard faculty.
        Dr. Davis's survivors include his son, Arthur Jr., of Washington; and a granddaughter. His wife of 50 years, Clarice Winn Davis, died in 1978.
      