
        Zora Arkus-Duntov, the Russian engineer and race car driver who turned the Chevrolet Corvette into one of the most popular muscle cars in the United States, died on Sunday at St. John Hospital here. He was 86.
        Mr. Arkus-Duntov, who lived in Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., died of kidney failure caused by cancer, said Daniel Gale, a friend of the family and the founder of the National Corvette Museum in Bowling Green, Ky.
        When Chevrolet introduced the Corvette in 1953, it was a powerful-looking car, but it had only a modest 150-horsepower engine. Mr. Arkus-Duntov was working at the time for a British racing car company and saw a prototype of the  vehicle at a General Motors show at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan.
        Immediately struck by the vehicle's appearance, he applied to Chevrolet for a job as an engineer. Once hired, he pushed through the decision to turn the Corvette into a high-performance sports car with a succession of more powerful engines. Chevrolet offered a 195-horsepower engine on the 1955 Corvette, a 240-horsepower engine on the 1956 Corvette and a 283-horsepower engine on the 1957 model.
        "The Corvette is a legendary car, and in many ways Zora was the legend behind the legend," J. Michael Losh, G.M.'s chief financial officer, said in an interview on Monday.
        The changes turned a slow-selling two-seater into a symbol of power and ostentation in the late 1950's. G.M.'s total sales of Corvettes crossed the one  million mark in 1992. Annual production of the gas-guzzling sports car peaked at 53,807 in 1979 and has been slowly slipping since then as more foreign companies have entered the sports car market.
        Mr. Arkus-Duntov came up with a fuel-injection system for the 1957 Corvette that has since become standard on many mass-production vehicles. Several years later, he designed the first four-wheel disk brakes to be included on a mass-produced American car. Mr. Arkus-Duntov retired from G.M. in 1975.
        Born in Belgium as the son of a Russian engineer, Mr. Arkus-Duntov grew up in St. Petersburg and led a flamboyant life from his youth. At age 16, he smuggled  gold for profit from France into Belgium in the hollowed-out frame of a Mercedes. "He did it until his mother caught him -- he was still a young man," Mr. Gale said.
        Mr. Arkus-Duntov graduated in 1934 from the Institute of Charlottenburg in Berlin with a degree in mechanical engineering.
        He soon fled Nazi Germany for France, where he flew in the French Air Force at the beginning of World War II. When Paris fell, Mr. Arkus-Duntov fled to Britain, and in 1941 he immigrated to the United States, where he became an American citizen.
        Although he made his reputation with the Corvette, Mr. Arkus-Duntov was also  a successful race car driver and aircraft engineer.
        Driving a Porsche, he won its engine-size category at LeMans in 1953 and 1954.
        He spent the last months of his life remodeling a BD-5 short-wing stunt plane in hopes of flying it this summer and personally breaking the world speed record for a small aircraft without a jet engine.
        "He had a very high-performance engine that he was trying to stick in the thing," said Mr. Gale, adding that Mr. Arkus-Duntov, in his last days, "was devastated that he wasn't going to be able to finish it."
        At the request of Mr. Arkus-Duntov, his body will be cremated and the ashes entombed in a display at the National Corvette Museum, Mr. Gale said.
        Mr. Arkus-Duntov is survived by his wife of 57 years, Elfi Arkus-Duntov.
      