
        Gen. Tran Van Tra, who commanded Vietnamese Communist raids on Saigon during  the Tet offensive of 1968 and directed the final assault on the city when it fell in 1975, died on Saturday, Vietnamese newspapers reported this week. He was 77.
        The newspapers said he died in the city he captured, now known as Ho Chi Minh City. They did not give a cause of death but said he had been seriously ill for  some time.
        Lean, handsome and outspoken, General Tra served after the war as a Deputy Defense Minister under Hanoi's military leader, Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap, and sat on  the Communist Party Central Committee.
        But he was purged from those positions in 1982 after publishing a book that criticized as a military failure the Tet offensive -- an audacious campaign of small assaults around the country that failed to set off a popular uprising but  helped turn American public opinion decisively against the war.
        The shocking images of Vietnamese Communist commandos, no more than 32 of them, who fought to the death within the American Embassy compound in Saigon remain a key symbol of the war.
        But in his book, "The Spring General Offensive," the only published volume of a projected five-part history of the southern front, General Tra came closer to the contemporary assessment of the Pentagon than to that of an outraged American public.
        "The Tet objectives were beyond our strength," he wrote. "They were based on  the subjective desires of the people who made the plan. Hence our losses were large, in materiel and manpower, and we were not able to retain the gains we had already made. Instead we faced myriad difficulties in 1969 and 1970."
        Tran Van Tra was born in 1918 in the central Vietnamese province of Quang Ngai, and after working briefly on a railroad, spent much of his life on the battlefield, joining the anti-French Vietminh resistance forces at the age of 19.
        He was imprisoned several times by the French colonial administration, according to his obituary in the Government newspaper Vietnam News. After the withdrawal of the French in 1954 he served as a military judge, as director of a military college and as the North Vietnamese Army's deputy chief of staff. He also traveled to both China and the Soviet Union for military and political training.
        In 1963, as thousands of non-combat American military advisers were pouring into the country, he trekked down the Ho Chi Minh Trail and assumed leadership of the Vietcong forces in South Vietnam.
        When the Paris Agreement was signed a decade later, in 1973, and American combat troops finally withdrew, General Tra headed the military delegation of the Communists' Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam.
        But he soon returned north to Hanoi to help plan the final offensive against  the Saigon Government of President Nguyen Van Thieu. In March and April 1975, as the South Vietnamese Army collapsed almost faster than the North Vietnamese tanks could pursue it, General Tra was the front-line commander in the assault on the southern capital, operating from a bamboo shack on the outskirts of Saigon.
        After falling from grace in 1982, he retired to a villa not far from that spot, in the town of Thu Duc. But three years later, on the 10th anniversary of  the fall of Saigon, he reappeared among the country's top leaders at a parade, a signal of his rehabilitation.
        Later, he was permitted to attend a conference on the war in New York, where  his daughter is now studying medicine.
        In his final years General Tra served as a top director of the Vietnamese Veterans Association. He was most recently in the news when he spoke out last fall against an American plan to remove a plaque commemorating the Tet offensive from the wall of the old Embassy building, which had reverted to United States control.
        "The plaque is a historic relic, a tradition," he told a Vietnamese reporter. "The attack on the United States Embassy shook the White House as well as the world. The price we had to pay in return for the victory was the death of some courageous commandos. Each drop of blood was priceless."
        No listing of survivors was provided by the Government.
      