
        Edward W. Carter, a retailing executive who was one of the first to see the potential of shopping malls and was a founder of the Carter Hawley Hale Stores empire, died on Thursday at his home in Bel Air, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, William D. Carter.
        Mr. Carter moved to Los Angeles from Maryland at age 9 with his mother, Rose Price Carter, and his sister, Ruth, after the death of his father.
        He went to work the next year as a printer's apprentice and continued working through high school. While he attending U.C.L.A., he got a job in the tailoring  room of a clothing store on Wilshire Boulevard and then became a successful salesman.
        He earned his M.B.A. at the Harvard Business School and was asked to stay as  a professor of retailing. He declined and went back to California to continue his sales career. At age 34, he became chief executive of the Broadway Department Store.
        He built up the three-store chain to a retailing empire of about 150 department and specialty stores, which at one point had sales of $7.5 billion a  year.
        During the post-World War II retailing boom, he looked for areas of expansion and studied maps to see where the freeways were being built. He then built stores near them to take advantage of the expansion of the Los Angeles suburbs.
        In 1946, he built Crenshaw Center, one of the nation's first shopping malls,  on a former golf course outside Los Angeles.
        To help finance the expansion, he sold stock in the company to Hale Brothers  Stores of San Francisco. The two chains merged in 1950.
        The chain, which eventually became Carter Hawley Hale Stores, acquired other  chains, including Emporium Capwell, Neiman Marcus, Waldenbooks and Bergdorf Goodman. Eventually, Carter Hawley Hale was renamed Broadway Stores Inc. and was sold to Federated Department Stores last year.
        By the time Mr. Carter reached his 40's, he was a millionaire and decided to  devote more time to raising money for the arts. He had a world-renowned collection of 17th-century Dutch paintings.
        He was appointed to the University of California's Board of Regents in 1952 by Gov. Earl Warren. He served for 36 years, helping guide the university through the student unrest in the 1960's and advising it on financial matters and investments.
        He helped found the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and donated a two-acre Japanese garden to U.C.L.A. He and his second wife, Hannah, were founders and major supporters of the Music Center in Los Angeles.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children from his first marriage, William, of Los Altos Hills, Calif., and Ann Carter Huneke of Menlo Park, Calif.; a sister, Ruth Campbell of Los Angeles, three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        His first wife, Christine Dailey Carter, died.
      