
        Carl B. Stokes, whose election as the first black mayor of a major city in 1967 became a symbol of a changing America, died early yesterday in Cleveland. He was 68.
        Mr. Stokes, who was the United States Ambassador to the Seychelles but had taken a medical leave of absence last year after being told he had cancer of the esophagus, died shortly after 5 A.M. at Cleveland Clinic, according to a spokeswoman for the hospital.
        In a career marked by the overcoming of racial barriers, Mr. Stokes also served in the Ohio Legislature, presided as a municipal judge in Cleveland and was the first black anchorman of a television news show in New York.
        The great-grandson of a slave, Mr. Stokes became Mayor of Cleveland by defeating Seth C. Taft, the grandson of a President, at a time when whites accounted for two-thirds of the city's population.
        As Mayor, he steered a relatively moderate course, calling for calm and unity during the social and racial turbulence of the late 1960's that engulfed Cleveland and many other big cities. Thrust into the fore of urban politics at a time of such upheaval, Mr. Stokes seemed to relish the challenge, even as many whites viewed him with hostility.
        "I'm glad I was born during the times I was," he once said.
        Mr. Stokes's brother Louis, a Representative from Ohio, said yesterday that his brother had "inspired black Americans to aspire to higher political office all over the country."
        Born in the poor black neighborhood of Central in 1927, Carl Stokes was only  2 when his father, Charles, a laundry worker, died. Raised in a public housing project for the poor by their mother, Louise, a cleaning woman, the Stokes boys  would help support the family by carrying newspapers and working in neighborhood stores.
        After dropping out of high school and going to work in a foundry, Carl Stokes entered the Army in 1944, and served in occupied Germany in World War II. After  being discharged in 1946, he returned to Cleveland and earned a high school diploma, and then attended West Virginia State College and Cleveland College of  Western Reserve University, majoring in psychology.
        He worked for three years as an agent for Ohio's State Department of Liquor Control, and then returned to school at the University of Minnesota, where he earned a bachelor's of science degree in law in 1954. He then worked as a probation officer in Cleveland while attending the Cleveland-Marshall Law School, and in 1957 was admitted to the bar.
        Mr. Stokes became the first black Democrat elected to the Legislature in 1962, winning office in Cuyahoga County, which was only 14 percent black. In 1965, he narrowly missed upsetting the incumbent, Ralph S. Locher, in the Cleveland mayoral race.
        On the night of his election victory in 1967, Mr. Stokes told a crowd of cheering supporters that he had never before then known "the full meaning of the words 'God Bless America.' "
        Mr. Stokes was credited with using humor and hard work to ease the misgivings of Cleveland's white voters. He said after his election that white opponents thought the city's overwhelming white majority would give them an easy time, but "Carl Stokes fooled them."
        "I went into every white home that would let me in there and every hall that  would have me," he said. "I didn't sit back. Carl Stokes doesn't sit back."
        During his tenure as Mayor, Mr. Stokes was credited with opening City Hall jobs to blacks, and speaking out for the poor and disadvantaged. He tried to reorganize the police department and expand public housing. The problems of poverty and discrimination in American cities, he had said, "threatens to strangle and destroy our entire urban civilization."
        A crucial event in his tenure occurred on a summer night in 1968, when a shootout between a group of black men and the police ended in the death of six black civilians and three white police officers. More than two decades after the event, called the Glenville riots, Mr. Stokes's eyes would fill with tears as he described the "damn helplessness" he felt during the time.
        In his autobiography, "Promises of Power," Mr. Stokes wrote that his efforts  to build a sense of unity were dealt a severe blow by the riots.
        "The aftermath of that night was to haunt and color every aspect of my administration the next three years," he wrote.
        After two two-year terms as mayor, Mr. Stokes, who had dashing good looks and a touch of charisma, moved to New York and took a job with the television station WNBC in 1972, where he became the city's first black anchorman.
        When Cleveland went into default in 1978, Mayor George Voinovich maintained the city's financial slide had started with poor managerial moves by Mr. Stokes, who rejected the notion.
        In 1980, Mr. Stokes left New York and returned to Cleveland, where he worked  as a labor lawyer, serving as general counsel for the United Auto Workers, a union that had been among his earliest supporters.
        He was a municipal judge in Cleveland from 1983 to 1994. Last year, President Clinton appointed him Ambassador to the Seychelles, in the Indian Ocean off the  northern coast of Madagascar.
        His marriage to Shirley Edwards in 1958, which produced three children, ended in divorce in 1973. He later married Raija Kostadinov, a former model from Finland. They divorced and then remarried. They have an 8-year-old daughter.
        In addition to his wife and Representative Stokes, he is survived by the three children from his first marriage, Carl Jr. of San Francisco; Courdi of Cleveland, and Cordell of Arizona; the one child from his second marriage, Cynthia of Cleveland, and a stepson, Sasha Kostadinov, also of Cleveland.
        The obituary also referred incorrectly to the recriminations over Cleveland's default in 1978. The default occurred during the mayoralty of Dennis Kucinich, not George V. Voinovich, who defeated Mr. Kucinich in 1979. It was Mr. Voinovich, as noted, who said the slide had started with poor managerial moves by Mr. Stokes, a contention Mr. Stokes denied.
        Correction:  April 5, 1996, Friday
        An obituary of former Mayor Carl B. Stokes of Cleveland yesterday misstated the date of his death in some editions.It was Wednesday, not Thursday.
      