
        Fred G. Sullivan Jr., an independent film maker who used the Adirondacks as his movie lot, died on April 18. He was 50 and lived in Saranac Lake, N.Y.
        Mr. Sullivan collapsed while playing a weekly pickup basketball game at Paul  Smith's College, where he was director of development. He was pronounced dead at the Adirondack Medical Center in Saranac Lake, with heart failure given as the cause.
        His "Cold River" of 1981, filmed outdoors in a bitterly cold winter, told of two children left on their own in the wilderness when their father died. It was  the first full-length feature to be shot entirely in the Adirondacks since the silents, except for "Marjorie Morningstar," set in a summer resort on Schroon Lake.
        Mr. Sullivan wrote, directed, produced and edited "The Beer Drinker's Guide to Fitness and Film Making," a 1988 release that acquired something of a cult following. It was an 84-minute home movie, a quirky montage of the Sullivans' life.
        It recorded the trials and tribulations of the struggling film maker, his wife and their four offspring, all crammed into the small family home. Janet Maslin, writing in The New York Times, found the film as peculiar as its title,  an amalgam of Mr. Sullivan's musings on his career, his children, his personal history and his favorite beverages.
        In the end, she said, it comes together as a live-action family album of memories for the children and of his work in the mountains around him. "It's remarkable," she wrote, "that Mr. Sullivan does this with so little vanity and so much wry, self-deprecating humor."
        She welcomed the film as "a real delight." It had a similar reception when first shown at the 1987 Sundance Film Festival, and at his death he was working  on a sequel.
        Mr. Sullivan took an intense interest in the preservation of the Adirondack Park and worked with many nonprofit groups, most recently at the College of the  Adirondacks in Paul Smiths, in upstate Franklin County. There he helped chart the independent two-year college's plan to offer four-year programs as of next year. Government approval is expected, the college said.
        He was born in Glens Falls, N.Y., and graduated with a bachelor's degree in history from Fordham University in 1967. He received a master's in film making at Boston University in 1973.
        Mr. Sullivan is survived by his wife, Polly; a daughter, Katie, 17; three sons, Tate, 18, and twins Kirk and Ricky, 14, and a sister, Mary Edna Sullivan of New Orleans.
      