
        Dr. John C. Flanagan, a psychologist who devised the aptitude tests that helped select American pilots in World War II and then adapted the technique to  education, died on April 15 at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 90.
        Dr. Flanagan joined the Army Air Forces in 1941 to devise tests that would help identify the men who had the ability to survive the training and become combat pilots. He brought together more than 150 psychologists and 1,400 research assistants for the fledgling Aviation Psychology Program.
        To define the skills needed by pilots, Dr. Flanagan developed a method called the critical incident technique, in which pilots and those who had observed them were asked to recount incidents in which a pilot trainee had succeeded or had failed.
        Then the psychologists looked for common threads defining the aptitudes underlying success or failure. After defining the traits of a good pilot, Dr. Flanagan developed tests to look for those qualities.
        The prospective pilots, as well as navigators and bombardiers, who were selected through these tests "were virtually assured of success," said Dr. William Clemans, a psychologist who worked with Dr. Flanagan later. "He saved a  lot of money and he saved a lot of lives in training."
        Many of the psychologists in the Army Air Forces program became leaders in their field after the war. Dr. Flanagan, a colonel who was awarded the Legion of Merit, went to the University of Pittsburgh to begin a research center that later became independent, the American Institutes for Research.
        When Dr. Flanagan looked back at his wartime work, said Dr. Sandra Wilson, who worked with him at the institutes, "he used to joke and say the psychological service had won the war." But, she added, "there was a grain of truth in that because pilot-training costs were killing the service, and we weren't getting trained pilots out there fast enough."
        Dr. Flanagan kept his taste for large-scale projects when he turned to civilian challenges through his research center. Dr. Wilson said, "John had long felt that students were not getting the individual instruction they needed, and  they weren't getting the career counseling they needed." So, just as in the work with pilots, he set out to define the problem, then to look for solutions.
        With Federal financing in the 1960's, Dr. Flanagan had 400,000 high school students take two days of tests to find out what they liked to do and could do,  and how much guidance they were getting. Follow-up studies looked at what the students' lives were like 1 year, 5 years and 11 years after leaving school.
        Dr. Flanagan found that the schools were holding back some of the best students. And he found that many students were not getting the help they needed  to lead them into professional careers or vocational programs. The data from this study, called Project Talent, were made available to other researchers as well, and more than 250 research papers resulted.
        The next step, beginning in 1967 and extending into the 1970's, was Project Plan, an attempt, financed by the Westinghouse Learning Corporation, to develop  individualized instruction. Each student was quizzed daily to find out what he or she had learned, and that information was put onto punch cards and fed into a mainframe computer. A computer analysis was run, and individual study plans were drawn up for thousands of students.
        Dr. Flanagan left the administration of his American Institutes for Research, which has centers in Washington, Palo Alto, Calif., and Lexington, Mass., in 1974, and retired from research in 1982.
        He was born on Jan. 7, 1906, in Armour, S.D., and grew up in Seattle. He graduated from the University of Washington, where he was the starting quarterback in his senior year.  He received his doctorate from Harvard University in 1934.
        Dr. Flanagan is survived by his wife, Ruth, of Menlo Park; two sons from a previous marriage, Ross and Scott, both of Tallahassee, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      