
        John Joseph O'Connor, who created the nation's first Academy of Food Marketing in 1960 and helped to develop nutrition programs in Latin America and  India, died on April 19 at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. He was 65 and lived in Arlington.
        The cause was complications from heart surgery, his family said.
        Mr. O'Connor took over the management of his family's wholesale food business in Syracuse, Brown Jewel Foods Inc., in the 1950's. It occurred to him  then that not one of the nation's approximately 2,200 colleges and universities  offered a degree program to train people to run the food industry.
        The result was the Academy of Food Marketing at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia, one of the few institutions in the United States that offers a college-level program in food marketing.
        Mr. O'Connor founded the four-year academy in 1962, and it was dedicated in 1965.
        While at St. Joseph's, Mr. O'Connor helped to develop nutrition-related programs and projects in Central and South America. He was executive director of the academy until 1970, and then established the Food Marketing Center of Jamshedput, India, which he headed for four years. He also created a nutrition program for the Indian Government that, at its peak, fed 10,000 preschoolers a day.
        Mr. O'Connor was born in Syracuse, received a bachelor's degree from St. Bonaventure University and, in 1953, a law degree from Syracuse University.
        He was a trustee and past president of the American Freedom From Hunger Foundation.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara Abel O'Connor; three sons, Vincent P., of San Francisco, George A., of Shreveport, La., and John P., of San Pedro Sula, Honduras; two daughters, Janice Singleton and Peggy Thornsburg, both of Houston, and seven grandchildren. His previous marriage to Dorothy Partain ended in divorce.
        Correction:  April 29, 1996, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about the creator of the nation's first Academy of Food Marketing misstated his first name. He was James Joseph O'Connor. It also misspelled his wife's maiden name. She is Barbara Abell O'Connor. And it omitted one of Mr. O'Connor's sons, Kevin J. O'Connor of Houston. A corrected obituary appears on page B7.
      