
        David D. Petersen, one of the country's leading experts on financial planning for the seriously ill, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Petersen, who  lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, was 54.
        The cause was complications of AIDS, said his sister, Sharon Shinsky of Largo, Fla.
        The first person in the United States to advise an AIDS patient on how to sell a life insurance policy for ready cash, Mr. Petersen won a reputation as an advocate and beacon of financial hope for thousands of the terminally ill.
        His efforts embraced not only the practice known as viatical sales but also the concerted advocacy of organizations representing a wide spectrum of the seriously and chronically ill to improve health insurance coverage and win legislation that preserved Medicare benefits for them.
        But Mr. Petersen was best known for his efforts to educate the ill on viatical sales, a term derived from from the Latin viaticum, for payments made to Roman officials made before long journeys to outposts of the empire. He was instrumental in improving terms of the fees paid by companies that bought the life insurance policies and collected on them when patients died. He promoted the formation of a viatical settlement industry association and initiated meetings between regulators and the industry that came into being in the late 1980's and has since boomed, purchasing more than $100 million annually in policies from the terminally ill.
        Besides being a founder of the coalition of voluntary health organizations called New Yorkers for Accessible Health Coverage, Mr. Petersen was a member of  the insurance committee of the protest group Act Up, or the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, and the president of Affording Care, a nonprofit organization that provided financial information to the seriously ill and their advisers. Twice a year, he conducted the Affording Care master class, a 42-hour course for financial planners on the problems of the terminally ill, and he lectured regularly for organizations like Cancer Care and the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.
        A week before his death, the Viatical Association of America, an organization of 27 viatical settlement companies, honored him with its first award, named the David Petersen Award.
        David D. Petersen was born in Anderson, Ind. He was educated in accounting and economics at Claremont Men's College in Pomona, Calif., from which he received a bachelor of arts degree in 1963. He engaged in advanced studies at the London School of Economics and at New York University, and he served in the  Army as a captain from 1964 to 1968.
        Mr. Petersen retired in 1989 as a vice president of Peregrine Planners of New York City, where he began his pioneering work in financial counseling for the terminally ill.
        In addition to his sister, Mr. Petersen is survived by his father, David N. Petersen of Laguna Hills, Calif., and a grandmother, Glenna Langston, of Dayton, Ohio.
      