
        Max Wohlberg, a liturgical scholar and composer who set Judaism to music for  millions of worshipers and taught a generation of cantors how to lead their congregations in song, died on Friday at his son's home in Washington. He was 89 and had been a professor at the cantorial school of the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan since he helped found the school in 1952.
        In a religious tradition in which music is less an embellishment than the embodiment of worship, Mr. Wohlberg, who was born in a Hungarian exclave of what became Czechoslovakia and who came to New York as a 17-year-old stowaway in 1923, has been credited with bringing about a revolution in the way most Conservative and many Orthodox Jews celebrate their religion.
        The modern melodies he wrote for ancient Hebrew texts proved so easy to sing and to remember that congregations that had long mumbled their way through prayer services suddenly found voice.
        Not that worshipers leave their synagogues whistling Professor Wohlberg's tunes. He was, after all, working within a rigid system that dictates that the same texts be sung to one precise set of notes for weekday services, another on  the Sabbath and yet another on High Holy Days.
        Still, compared to the cadences that had dominated worship for Jews from northern and central Europe since they originated in the Rhineland a millennium  ago, the melodies that Mr. Wohlberg composed in the modern Western musical tradition are widely used today.
        For all the natural talent he might have brought to his work as a composer, Mr. Wohlberg, or Uncle Mickey, as he was known, was primarily a scholar, and a largely self-taught one at that. Although he was born into a family of rabbis, cantors and scholars, and had studied Jewish liturgical music in Budapest, he was exposed to Western music only after he came to the United States.
        Then, while working in a factory, he spent evenings at the New York Public Library and at the seminary library poring over musical texts and laboriously copying much of it note by note.
        A tenor who spent two seasons in the Metropolitan Opera chorus, Mr. Wohlberg, who abandoned the Orthodox tradition of his childhood and joined the Conservative movement, was a cantor for a number of congregations around the country even after he helped found what became the H. L. Miller Cantorial School and College of Jewish Music in 1952 to provide formal training for cantors, who  had long been trained as apprentices.
        Mr. Wohlberg, who was credited with rescuing and preserving many rare texts,  assembled a collection of more than 2,000 manuscripts, books and song sheets, then gave it to the school in 1977.
        Known for an erudition that went so far beyond liturgical music that it was said he knew the Talmud better than most rabbis, Mr. Wohlberg was also steeped in German, English and American literature.
        Mr. Wohlberg, a small, natty man with a perpetual smile, also studied the psychology of humor and had a ready wit.
        Once after listening to an abysmal singing performance by a student, Mr. Wohlberg, who seemed to know how to pass the buck, leaned over and whispered to  a colleague: "I'll leave it to you to tell him he should major in silent prayer."
        He is survived by his son, Rabbi Adam M. Wohlberg; a brother, Joseph, of Sunrise, Fla.; two sisters, Blanche Eckstein and Madeline Baumel, both of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 1, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary last Friday about Max Wohlberg, a liturgical composer and a professor at the cantorial school at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan, misidentified his son. He is Rabbi Jeffrey Wohlberg of Washington. (Rabbi Adam M. Wohlberg, who lives in Northbrook, Ill., is a grandson of Professor Wohlberg.)
      