
        Raphael David Blau, the son of a rabbi who turned an academic interest in psychology into "Bedtime for Bonzo," the 1951 film in which Ronald Reagan was co-star with a chimpanzee, died on Sunday in Brooklyn. He was 83.
        The cause was heart failure, his son, Joel Blau, said.
        Raphael Blau grew up in New York City and London and did graduate work at Columbia University under Edward L. Thorndike, the educational psychologist and  consultant on lexicography, before taking up writing radio mysteries in the mid-1940's.
        Mr. Blau's first film was "Mother Is a Freshman" (1949), starring Loretta Young. Shortly after that, he read a researcher's suggestion that a chimp could  be raised as a child and wrote the original Bonzo story.
        He sent the script to his brother-in-law, Ted Berkman, who had been working as a journalist. They became writing partners, collaborating during the 1950's on a series of film scripts, several on psychological themes.
        In "Bedtime for Bonzo," for which they received credit for the story but not  the screenplay, Mr. Reagan played a psychology professor who has a criminal father and recruits a chimpanzee to try to prove that nurture trumps nature.
        Their greatest critical success was the screenplay for "Fear Strikes Out" (1957), in which Anthony Perkins starred as Jim Piersall, the gifted Boston Red Sox outfielder driven to a nervous breakdown by professional and parental pressure.
        They also wrote the screenplay for the 1960 film "Girl of the Night," which they based on a series of psychological studies of prostitutes published in a book, "The Call Girl," by Dr. Harold Greenwald.
        Mr. Blau moved from New York City to Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, in 1962, where he lived with his wife, Helen Berkman Blau, for the next 30 years. He wrote occasional television scripts.
        In addition to his son, at whose home he died, Mr. Blau is survived by a brother, Clarence, of Washington, and a daughter, Deborah Blau of Manhattan.
      