
        Bernard Rosenberg, distinguished professor emeritus of sociology at City College and the City University Graduate Center and a contributing editor of the intellectual journal Dissent from its inception, died on Thursday at the Jewish  Home and Hospital for the Aged in the Bronx. Professor Rosenberg, who lived on the East Side of Manhattan, was 72.
        His daughter Deena said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        The author, co-author or editor of more than 20 books on subjects from Thorstein Veblen to juvenile delinquency to Broadway musicals, Professor Rosenberg also wrote scores of articles and essays about American politics, American Jewry and mass culture.
        In his political writings, he brought his eclectic knowledge and corrosive wit to bear on anti-democratic institutions. On the subject of American Jewry, he remained optimistic about the future of the Jewish people, despite extensive  assimilation. In his articles on mass culture, as in his "Mass Culture: The Popular Arts in America," the pioneering 1957 book he wrote with D. M. White, he asserted strenuously that culture need not be lowered to reach a wide audience.
        His "Sociological Theory: A Book of Readings," compiled with L. A. Coser and  published and republished beginning in 1957, was a standard text. Professor Rosenberg was also the co-author of several works on the problems of the young,  including "Work, Youth and Unemployment" (1968) and "The Varieties of Delinquent Experience" (1969). From 1964 to 1967, when Lyndon B. Johnson was in the White House, Professor Rosenberg was a member of the President's Commission on Juvenile Delinquency.
        At the time of his death, he was at work on two books: one was a collection of his essays; the other, "In Defense of Culture," focused on the cultural roots of behavior, norms, customs, languages and artistic forms of expression.
        Professor Rosenberg, who retired in 1992, was an instructor at Brandeis University in 1954 when Dissent was founded and he began working with Irving Howe and other editors.  Professor Rosenberg remained a contributing editor until his death.
        He was born in Detroit in 1923, received a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Michigan in 1945, a master's degree in social science from the New School for Social Research in 1947 and a doctorate from the New School in 1949.  In 1946, he did graduate work in sociology with the eminent Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget.
        Professor Rosenberg began his teaching career at Wayne University in 1948 and came to the City University system in 1956. He became a professor there in 1967.
        Besides his wife of 47 years, the former Sarah Greenspan, Professor Rosenberg is survived by his son, Daniel, and his daughters, Rebecca and Deena, all of Manhattan; a sister, Leona Kutlov of Detroit and a grandchild.
      