
        Dr. Vozcan Lawrence Parsegian, a retired nuclear engineer, the first dean of  engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a chronicler of Armenian architecture throughout history, died on Tuesday at Samaritan Hospital in Troy,  N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Troy.
        A former research director for the Atomic Energy Commission in New York, Dr.  Parsegian was enlisted by Rensselaer in 1954 as chairman of its engineering group and professor of nuclear engineering.
        The group consisted of seven degree-granting engineering departments with more than 2,000 students. In 1957, the institute reshaped its four academic groups into schools, and Dr. Parsegian became dean of the recast School of Engineering.
        Under his stewardship the school started a program of nuclear science and engineering, built a linear accelerator and strengthened the faculty and curriculum to improve graduate education and research. He retired in 1975 as professor emeritus of nuclear science and engineering.
        In the mid-1950's, after leaving the A.E.C., he engaged in public sparring with the Federal Government when he accused the commission of imposing a curtain of secrecy that impeded the research done in university laboratories. The charge drew a sharp rebuttal from the chairman of the commission, Adm. Lewis L. Strauss, although many academics sided with Dr. Parsegian.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Parsegian, a passionate champion of the Armenian national  cause, started a 20-year project to document nearly two millennia of Armenian architecture. He did so, he said, to help preserve what was left of the Armenian cultural heritage.
        He raised $1 million from the Armenian community to get the work formally under way in 1980 when he became director of the Armenian Architecture Archives  Project. The result was a seven-volume set of text and color photographs, the last of which came out in 1992.
        Published by a high-quality documentation center in Holland for college libraries, its original records remain in the Rensselaer Archives. A CD-ROM version that Dr. Parsegian helped complete just days before his death is scheduled to be placed on the World Wide Web.
        Vozcan Parsegian -- he added the Lawrence, or Larry, to his Armenian Christian name -- was born in Van, an ancient center of Armenian civilization in Turkey. He came to this country via Russia, Sweden and England and settled with  an uncle in Chelsea, Mass.
        He was a physics graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and received a doctorate from New York University after Army service in World War II. Having worked as a researcher in private industry before and after the war,  he was hired in 1950 as director of the Research Division in the Atomic Energy Commission's New York operations office.
        Dr. Parsegian is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Varsenig Boyajian; a son, Dr. V. Adrian Parsegian of Washington; a daughter, Dr. Elsa V.  Parsegian of Youngstown, Ohio; a sister, Florence Bergey of Sun City, Fla., and  three grandchildren.
      