
        John D. Bulkeley, a retired Navy vice admiral who won the Medal of Honor for  his daring torpedo-boat attacks on the overwhelming forces of the Japanese Navy  around the Philippines in World War II, died on Saturday in his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 84.
        Admiral Bulkeley, who served as a patrol torpedo boat commander, broke through Japanese lines so Gen. Douglas MacArthur could escape from Corregidor to Bataan to unoccupied Mindinao in the Philippines in 1942.
        He also was at the vanguard of the Normandy invasion in June 1944, leading a fleet of 110 mine sweepers and torpedo boats and then rescuing survivors of sunken ships.
        "Invasion day itself is kind of blurred in my mind," Admiral Bulkeley told The New York Times in October 1944. "I remember the black night in the bay of the Seine, so black I couldn't see a thing. All I could do was watch my radar. The beach was a single mass of flame."
        For his valor in battle, Admiral Bulkeley, who General MacArthur once described as "that bold buckaroo with the cold green eyes," was also awarded the Navy Cross, two Silver Star Medals, two Legion of Merit awards and the Purple Heart.
        The exploits of his squadron in the Philippines were chronicled in the book "They Were Expendable," by William L. White. The book was later made into a movie starring John Wayne as the squadron's executive officer and Robert Montgomery as Admiral Bulkeley, who was renamed Brickley in the film.
        Born in New York City on Aug. 19, 1911, Admiral Bulkeley graduated from the Naval Academy in June 1933. From 1963 to 1965, he commanded the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He retired from active duty in 1967, but was recalled to serve as president of the Navy Board of Inspection and Survey, a post traditionally held by a naval hero. He retired from that post in 1988 after 55 years of service.
        In an interview with CNN last July, Admiral Bulkeley shrugged off the praise  and accolades he had received over the years, saying that he had "just plowed ahead, straight, in what I considered to be my duty."
        "I don't know what a hero is," he said in the television interview. "This business of the captain taking all the credit, ordering someone else and so forth -- that's not it. The men who do the actual fighting, man the guns, they're the guys that really win the war."
        Admiral Bulkeley is survived by his wife, Hilda, three daughters and two sons.
      