
        George W. Jenkins, founder of Publix Supermarkets, the nation's ninth-largest grocery retailing chain and one of its most innovative, died on Monday at the Lakeland Regional Medical Center, a company spokeswoman said. He was 88.
        Mr. Jenkins suffered a stroke and had been confined to a wheelchair since 1989.
        Mr. Jenkins was widely known as the state's largest commercial employer and  head of a chain of stores that was a leader in introducing many innovations, including electric-eye doors and frozen food cases. He was also a benefactor of  many civic, educational and charitable organizations.
        "George made a tremendous contribution to our business climate, but perhaps more importantly, he was a true civic leader who had a deep dedication to improving our communities," Gov. Lawton Chiles said.
        Mr. Jenkins started his supermarket empire in 1930 when he opened his first store in Winter Haven with $1,300. Today the Publix chain has more than 514 supermarkets in three states and employs nearly 100,000 people. Sales exceeded $9.4 billion in 1995.
        George Washington Jenkins Jr. was born Sept. 29, 1907, in Warm Springs, Ga. He was one of eight children of a general store owner. He was 12 when he started working in his father's store, which sold "everything from coffins to collar buttons," he once said.
        When Mr. Jenkins was 16, the boll weevil attacked the area's cotton crops. The farmers could not afford to pay their bills, spelling economic disaster for  the general store. His father moved to Atlanta to open a grocery market. A year  later, the son also moved to Atlanta, briefly studying electrical engineering and then than taking a series of odd jobs.
        Among them was a job working for the Piggly Wiggly grocery chain, starting as a clerk. In June 1925, he hitched a car ride and traveled to Tampa, where he went to work for another Piggly Wiggly, starting as a "broom pusher" and stock clerk making $15 a week. Within a few weeks, he was promoted to store manager of a Piggly Wiggly in St. Petersburg, a reward for hard work and long hours. He was later promoted to store manager in Winter Haven, the company's biggest store.
        Four years later, the Florida boom collapsed and Mr. Jenkins's store began to fail, and the chain was sold to an operator in Atlanta.
        Mr. Jenkins said he then "turned in my apron, took the money I had saved to buy a new car -- about $1,300 -- and in 1930 opened my own store next to the one I'd left."
        In 1930, Mr. Jenkins formed a corporation, Publix Food Stores Inc., and by 1935 he had two stores.
        Back in Lakeland, Mr. Jenkins mortgaged an orange grove for $25,000, closed his two stores, "and, in 1940, opened the prototype of the marble, tile and stucco palaces which were to follow."
        The revolutionary design of that store included several features that at the  time had been rarely seen in a grocery store in Florida or anywhere else: electric-eye doors that would open automatically, fluorescent lighting, air-conditioning, 11,000 square feet of selling area, wide aisles, frozen-food cases, open-air dairy cases and a paved parking lot.
        Within a few years he bought J. A. Powell's Lakeland Grocery Company, with its chain of 19 All American stores, beginning the business that formed the core of the Publix chain.
        The Publix chain continued to grow. In recent years, about 20 new stores were added each year. The innovations kept coming, too. Electronic scanners to read prices automatically were introduced in 1977. In 1982, Publix began putting automated bank tellers in its stores. In 1984, the chain began testing debit cards, allowing customers to pay for their food using their bank cards.
        In 1940 he married Lee Savings, but she died less than two years later. The couple had no children, but Mr. Jenkins his wife's daughter from a previous marriage, Delores Socia.
        In 1947, Mr. Jenkins married Anne MacGregor of Atlanta. They had six children and were divorced in 1974.
        Mr. Jenkins is survived by a brother, Charles H. Jenkins Sr. of Lakeland.
        In addition to Delores, who lives in Lakeland, his surviving children are Howard Jenkins of Tampa, David Jenkins of Los Angeles, Carol Jenkins Barnett of  Lakeland, Julie Fancelli, of Lakeland and Italy, and Nancy Jenkins of Palm Beach, Fla., A third son, Kenneth Jenkins, died in 1974. Mr. Jenkins had 14 grandchildren and nine great granchildren.
      