
        Rabbi Theodore Jungreis, a scholar of the Torah and Talmud, scion of a Hungarian rabbinic dynasty and spiritual leader of an Orthodox congregation on Long Island, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in North Woodmere, L.I.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        With his wife, Esther Jungreis, he founded the North Woodmere Jewish Center/Congregation Ohr Torah on the South Shore of Long Island in 1964. It was  one of the first Orthodox congregations in the area.
        He was known for a creative approach to bringing religion to fellow Jews. In  1962, he began to celebrate the feast of Purim in a special car of the Long Island Rail Road heading to Manhattan. His wife handed out hamantashen and he chanted chapters of the megillah in Hebrew for commuting congregants who otherwise might have missed the service. He noted at the time that joyful Purim  was the only Jewish holiday he could celebrate on a moving train.
        Rabbi Meshulem HaLevi Jungreis, his Hebrew name, was born in the town of Gyongyos, where his father was chief rabbi. According to family lore, the family could trace its lineage to the Tribe of Judah and to King David.
        Before World War II, rabbis from the family headed 85 congregations across Hungary. He was ordained at age 18.
        When war broke out, he was conscripted into a labor battalion. When the German Army entered Hungary, he was held at Bergen-Belsen until the liberation.
        In the United States, he received a doctorate in history from Yeshiva University and held pulpits in Paterson, N.J., and Bethpage, L.I., before founding the center in North Woodmere. He became a prolific author of scholarly  articles for rabbinical journals.
        In 1976, Congregation Ohr Tora opened a museum of Holocaust artifacts. Rabbi  Jungreis contributed a miniature parchment scroll of the Torah that he secretly  carried throughout his own ordeal.
        In addition to his wife of 40 years, Rabbi Jungreis is survived by two sons,  Rabbi Yisroel Jungreis of Brooklyn and Rabbi Osher Anshil Jungreis of West Lawrence, L.I.; two daughters, Chaya Sora Gertzulin of Brooklyn, and Slovi Wolff of Lawrence, and 15 grandchildren.
      