
        Leo Shull, a New York publisher who for five decades recorded the comings and goings and the casting calls on Broadwayand beyond, died on Saturday at Aventura Hospital in Miami. He was 90 and had lived in North Miami since his retirement five years ago.
        Mr. Shull was the owner, publisher and editor of the weekly Show Business, which he started in 1941 as Actors Cues, a four-page mimeographed daily he distributed out of the basement of a Walgreen's drug store at 44th Street and Broadway. Among those who picked up copies and resold them to actors, radio writers, playwrights and others who cared about the theater were such stage-struck young hopefuls as Kirk Douglas and Lauren Becall, who hawked them at Sardi's and other theater-district watering holes.
        Mr. Shull cranked out lists of producers' offices, plays about to be cast -- everything about Broadway -- and sold them for 5 cents apiece. As that enterprise grew into Show Business, he started up more than a dozen other entertainment-related periodicals, including Who's Where, the Summer Theater Directory, Casting Guide, Angels, Models Guide and a summer weekly, Fire Island  Press.
        Besides steering young talent past the shoals of a notoriously fickle job market, Show Business also gossiped about famous people in "Celebrities in Town," a column that informed readers one February day in 1954 that Yma Sumac was staying at the Park Sheraton, Mary Pickford at the Pierre and Walt Disney at the Plaza.
        Mr. Shull, who was born in Milwaukee, was a drama and journalism graduate of  the University of Pennsylvania. He came to New York intent on becoming a playwright. To branch out into publishing, he borrowed a few dollars to rent a mimeograph machine and began Actors Cues, which was so successful that it soon outgrew its drugstore headquarters.
        Mr. Shull expanded that operation into Genius Inc., which was part night club, part restaurant and part theatrical training ground. With the support of established artists like Jose Ferrer, Luther Adler and Joseph Schildkraut, it too was a great success. Among his related ventures were Players Stage and Political Cabaret, patterned on the European tradition, with Marc Blitzstein and Harold Rome among the writers.
        He also tried his hand at producing, with a double bill by Jean Giraudoux, "The Virtuous Island" and "The Apollo of Bellac," which opened in 1957 at the Carnegie Hall Playhouse.
        Show Business ceased publication in 1991.
        Mr. Shull is survived by his wife, Claire Klar Shull; a daughter, Lee S. Pearlstein of Manhattan; a brother, Sol Shulman of Florida, and a grandson.
      