
        Helmut Krone, a pioneer of modern advertising, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife of 25 years, Irene.
        As one of advertising's most respected art directors, Mr. Krone spent over 30 years at Doyle Dane Bernbach, the New York advertising agency, where he worked closely with the firm's copywriters to create advertising campaigns that  caught the public's eye with innovative graphics and unexpected sales pitches.
        "He managed to turn the conventional wisdom inside out," said Gary Goldsmith, the chairman and creative director for Goldsmith/Jeffrey and president of the One Club for Art and Copy in New York.
        Among his best remembered works were the campaign for the Volkswagen sedan, the so-called beetle, which featured a large unadorned photo of the car with the tiny word "lemon" underneath it; the series of "When you're only No. 2, you try  harder" advertisements for Avis, and the creation of Juan Valdez, who personified Colombian coffee.
        "His best work always exemplifies honesty," said Marty Cooke, the creative director of TBWA Chiat/ Day. By focusing on what could be a perceived weakness,  such as the unflashy aspects of a Volkwswagen sedan, or being the second-largest rental car agency, Mr. Krone made people stop and take notice.
        Breaking with the tradition of art directors as people mostly concerned with  layouts, Mr. Krone served as an architect, building advertising campaigns that have been able to endure for decades, said Robert Levenson, who had headed Doyle Dane's creative department. "Among art directors, there's Helmut Krone and then  there's everybody else," he said.
        Mr. Krone's goal was always to create an advertising look that was substantially different than what was being done by his peers. In an interview in The New York Times in 1969, Mr. Krone said: "Great advertising really has to  be talked about by people and become part of the national scene."
        During his career, Mr. Krone received numerous awards and was inducted in both the One Club's Creative Hall of Fame and the Art Directors Hall of Fame..
        Mr. Krone studied at the New School for Social Research. He worked on the news side at Esquire and Collier's before joining Doyle Dane in 1954. Although Mr. Krone left in 1969 to form his own agency, he returned after three years and retired as executive vice president-creative director at DDB Needham, as the agency became known after a merger, in 1988.
        While he refused to consider himself a perfectionist, colleagues recalled Mr. Krone as intensely devoted to his work. "He would sweat it out until he arrived  at something that was totally different than what was being done," said Robert Gage, who had been art director for Doyle Dane when Mr. Krone arrived. "He suffered through it."
        "He was so obsessed by making the page look different every day," said Mr. Cooke of TBWA Chiat/Day.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Krone is survived by his sister, Margaret Rickert of Albuquerque, N.M.; five children, Peter, Eric, Kathryn and Lisa Krone Mella of Manhattan, and Mark of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      