
        Michael A. Werboff, a Russian-born portraitist whose subjects included royalty and captains of industry as well as writers and artists, died on April 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
        Over the years Mr. Werboff painted portraits of Bernard Baruch, Indira Gandhi, King Gustaf V of Sweden, King Alfonso XIII of Spain, Senators Barry Goldwater and Claiborne Pell, the philosopher Krishnamurti and the poets Robinson Jeffers and Marianne Moore. His portraits of Ezio Pinza and Feodor Chaliapin hang in the Metropolitan Opera House. He painted from life with one notable exception: in the early 1970's he painted individual portraits of the 56 signers of the Declaration of Independence, doing extensive research to determine how each would have looked at the time.
        In New York, Mr. Werboff had solo shows at Knoedler & Company in 1936, Wildenstein in 1941 and 1945 and the Grand Central Galleries in 1954. His most recent exhibition, in May 1995, was held at the Russian Mission to the United Nations. His work is in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, the Tretyakov Gallery and the Museum of the Bolshoi Opera House in Moscow and the Prado Museum in Madrid.
        Mikhail Alexandrovich Werboff was born in Ukraine on Dec. 10, 1896, and studied law at the University of St. Petersburg and painting at the Academy of Fine Arts, also in St. Petersburg. He was the last surviving student of Ilya Repin, the 19th-century Russian realist. After the Russian Revolution, Mr. Werboff taught art and ran a museum in Tashkent for three years, and also painted portraits of important Russian dancers, opera singers and actors. He immigrated to Paris in 1924 and to New York City in 1933.
        In New York he lived and worked for more than three decades in a large apartment at the Hotel des Artistes. In 1971, when the building became a cooperative, Mr. Werboff said he could not afford to buy his apartment and sued  the apartment's new owner to fight his eviction. Although he lost after a five-year legal battle, his case was widely reported in the press and caused the law on such transactions to be rewritten. It became illegal for anyone buying an occupied apartment in a newly cooperative building to evict its tenant.
        In the post-glasnost years, Mr. Werboff became something of a celebrity in Russia. A six-hour documentary about his life was shown on Russian national television in 1990 and President Boris N. Yeltsin awarded him an Order of Friendship medal in 1995.
      