
        Robert Anderson, a career Foreign Service officer best known as Henry A. Kissinger's spokesman on marathon diplomatic shuttles during the 1970's, died on April 5 at Fairfax Hospital in Virginia. He was 74 and lived in the Georgetown section of Washington.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Anderson, who served as the United States Ambassador in three countries, was born in Boston and graduated from Yale University in 1944. After wartime service as a first lieutenant in the Army he began his diplomatic career in 1946, posted to Shanghai as a vice consul.
        His career then took him to Bangkok, New Delhi and back to Washington as an international relations officer and staff assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. That assignment prepared him for the delicate and hectic work on the Middle East shuttle.
        He served in France as a political officer in Bordeaux and special assistant  to the Ambassador in Paris. By 1972 he was headed for his first ambassadorial appointment in Dahomey in West Africa, now known as Benin.
        The State Department recalled him to Washington in 1974 to take over as its senior press officer. He became special assistant for press relations to Mr. Kissinger and spoke for the Secretary of State as he zigzagged across the Middle East. The trips were daunting and largely abortive missions, coming so shortly after the 1973 war.
        Mr. Anderson's efforts were rewarded by President Gerald R. Ford with a ambassadorship to Morocco in 1976. From 1978 to 1982 he was attached as a special assistant for international affairs to the United States Navy Commander  in Chief, Atlantic, in Norfolk, Va.
        He retired in 1985 as Ambassador to the Dominican Republic, his final assignment. Since then he worked as a consultant advising American companies on  their international dealings.
        At his death, he was a director of the Atlantic Council of the United States  in Washington and was active on the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. He was an officer of the French Legion of Honor.
        Mr. Anderson is survived by two daughters, Cynthia Delarue of Monaco and Christina Miller of Los Angeles; a son, Mark, of Houston; a sister, Wynne Winn-Moon of London, and four grandchildren. His wife of 36 years, Elena Fenoaltea, died in 1986.
        Correction:  April 15, 1996, Monday
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Robert Anderson, a career Foreign Service officer, was published in error. It showed Robert B. Anderson, a former  Treasury Secretary, who died in 1989.
      