
        James Castle Turner, a former laborer and college boxer who became president  of the International Union of Operating Engineers and championed racial integration in the union movement, died on Saturday at the Day Shore Convalescent Center in North Miami Beach, Fla. He was 79.
        He lived in Washington from 1931 to 1988 and later moved to Florida.
        Mr. Turner, who was generally known as J. C., had suffered a series of strokes and had been in ill health for several years, his daughter Lauran Gintel said.
        He was president of the 400,000-member Operating Engineers, whose members are mainly operators of heavy equipment in the construction industry, from 1975 to 1985, when he retired.
        Mr. Turner was also influential in civic life in Washington, where he was an  advocate of home rule and affirmative action as well as integration. While in Washington, he earned the nickname "Mr. Labor." He had been a member of the Democratic National Committee and the Washington City Council and had headed the Greater Washington Area Central Labor Council.
        Over the years he was active in civil rights and charitable organizations. He had been treasurer of the National Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, a trustee of the National Urban League and chairman of United Way International.
        The son of an ironworker, he was born in Beaumont, Tex. Mr. Turner was a laborer in east Texas before attending Catholic University, where he was on the  boxing team and in 1940 received a bachelor's degree in economics. Having become a member of his union in the 1930's, he rose through the ranks to the presidency.
        In 1978, Mr. Turner was among a group of leaders of unions and consumer organizations who criticized the Carter Administration's emerging anti-inflation program. The group contended that the program was unfair to workers and was unlikely to succeed.
        In 1981, Mr. Turner was on the executive council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Bal  Harbour, Fla., which decided that unions should make their voices heard in the selection of candidates for political office.
        In addition to his daughter, Lauran, of Houston, he is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Mary Pauline Curtis; two other daughters, Vivian Polak of Delray Beach, Fla., and Lisa Oshins of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two sons, Daniel, of Columbia, Md., and Brian, of Washington; nine grandchildren, and a brother, Melvin, of Brownsville, Tex.
      