
        Dr. J. Kiffin Penry, a neurologist and researcher who was in the forefront of efforts to improve the medical treatment of epileptics, died on Sunday at his home in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 66 and had been a professor at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine at Wake Forest University.
        He died of complications from diabetes, his family said.
        To the 2.5 million Americans who suffer from one of the forms of epilepsy, a disease characterized by abnormal brain activity and often devastating seizures, Dr. Penry was an unlikely hero, a Government bureaucrat who took on other bureaucrats to speed the approval of drugs that control or even suppress the seizures.
        As the first chief of the epilepsy branch of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke, he led the successful fight in the late 1970's to gain Food and Drug Administration approval of valproate, an American-made drug that had been successfully used in Europe for a decade to  control epileptic seizures.
        Partly as a result of his efforts, including the commissioning of studies showing that the drug was both safe and effective, the F.D.A. took the unprecedented step of requiring Abbott Laboratories to supply information on valproate so it could be considered for expedited approval even though the drug  company, which did not believe that the drug would be profitable as an anti-epilepsy medication, had itself made no move to seek such approval.
        Once valproate was approved, it markedly improved the control of seizures among epileptics.
        Before valproate, the available medications, primarily phenobarbitol, controlled seizures in as few as 60 percent of the nation's epileptics, according to the Epilepsy Foundation. Today that figure is 85 percent.
        The battle for the approval of valproate was dramatized in a 1987 ABC Television movie, "Fight for Life," in which Dr. Penry was portrayed as Dr. Monroe Keith.
        While gaining approval for valproate might have been his most dramatic achievement, Dr. Penry, in a 40-year career, was a leader in virtually every facet of the battle to control epilepsy.
        Dr. Penry wrote widely on epilepsy and helped establish a network of comprehensive centers offering epilepsy patients a broad range of counseling and other treatments. He gained an international reputation for his work in discovering, defining and classifying the more than 20 distinct types of seizures and 50 epileptic syndromes, which often require different forms of treatment.
        A native of Denton, N.C., where his father operated a hardware store, Dr. Penry developed his interest in medicine as a teen-ager working for a pharmacy and for a local doctor.
        His initial medical interest was in psychiatry, but after he graduated from Wake Forest in 1951 and enrolled at its medical school, Dr. Penry came under the influence of a teacher who steered him toward epilepsy as a lifelong specialty.
        After serving as an Air Force neurologist, Dr. Penry joined the National Institutes of Health in 1966; he helped establish the first epilepsy section and built it into a branch. After his retirement in 1979, he returned to Wake Forest, where he held annual seminars that provided intense training in the treatment of epilepsy for more than 2,000 officials.
        He is survived by his wife, Sarah; two sons, Martin, of Winston-Salem, and Denny, of Thomasville, N.C.; a daughter, Edith, of Winston-Salem; a sister, Edith Morris of Denton; two brothers, William, of High Point, N.C., and Larry, of Tucson, Ariz., and one grandchild.
      