
        William K. Everson, a film historian, teacher and preservationist whose extensive film archive helped educate many critics and film makers, died Sunday  at his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was prost'te cancer, said a family spokesman.
        At a time when Hollywood studios routinely threw out films when their commercial life was over, Mr. Everson devoted himself to film collecting and preservation, amassing a personal archive of more than 4,000 feature films by the 1970's. In his apartment, where the films were stored, he held screenings that were attended by Lindsay Anderson, Bertrand Tavernier, Leonard Maltin, Andrew Sarris, Molly Haskell and Peter Bogdanovich, among others.  His role in American film culture has been compared to that of Henri Langlois, the founder of the Cinematheque Francaise, in France.
        Mr. Everson was born in Yeovil, Somerset, England, and grew up within hailing distance of the famous Ealing film studios in the western part of London. While still a teen-ager he served as publicity manager for Renown Pictures, a distributor of old British films. He also ran several film societies, wrote film criticism and helped found the London Regional Group of the Federation of Film Societies.
        After serving in the British Army from 1946 to 1948, he worked as a theater manager and publicist for the Monseigneur News Theaters in London. In 1950 he immigrated to the Unit'd States, working initially as a publicist for independent film distributors and in 1955 striking out on his own. He was a writer, editor and researcher for the television series "Movie Museum" and "Silents, Please." He also worked 's a writer and consultant for the television  specials "Hollywood, the Golden Years," "The Legend of Valentino," and "The Great Director," a documentary about D. W. Griffith.
        He taught at the School of Visual Arts from 1964 to 1984. In 1968 he was given a tenured position as professor of cinema studies at the New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
        Mr. Everson wrote nearly 20 books on the history of the cinema, notably "American Silent Film," "The Western: From Silents to Cinerama" (written with George N. Fenin), "The American @ovie," "The Films of Laurel and Hardy," "The Bad Guys" and "The Art of W. C. Fields."
        In the days before video, his screenings of lost or forgotten Hollywood films helped educate film buffs and professionals alike. In the early 1950's he helped organize the Theodore Huff Society, whose screenings were presented in a hall on Union Square. From 1958 to 1995, he showed films at the New School for Social Research. He also showed films for small audiences at his apartment. Mr. Everson worked with many film festivals and scholarly institutions devoted to film, who  relied on his archive to organize historical series and retrospectives. From 1977 to 1987 he was a co-director of the Telluride Film Festival in Colorado.
        Mr. Everson's film collection will be managed by his wife, Karen Latham Everson, who began cataloguing it when her husband became ill.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Griffith and Bambi, both of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      