
        Charles A. Anderson, who dreamed as a boy of soaring into the clouds and later helped to smash racial barriers by training a famed unit of black fighter  pilots in World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Tuskegee, Ala. He was 89.
        Mr. Anderson had suffered from colon cancer, his son Charles Jr., of Greensboro, N.C., said yesterday.
        In 1939, a decade after getting his flying license, Mr. Anderson started a civilian pilot training program at the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama. The next year, Eleanor Roosevelt visited the college and thought she might like to take a ride in a plane. It was an event that changed lives and history.
        Exactly what the First Lady said is unclear. One version had it that she said to Mr. Anderson, "I always heard that colored people couldn't fly airplanes." Mr. Anderson himself reminisced 20 years ago that Mrs. Roosevelt "saw no reason  why blacks could not fly."
        This much is certain: Mrs. Roosevelt ignored the protests of nervous Secret Service agents, went aloft with Mr. Anderson for the better part of an hour and  came back to earth safely.
        Not long afterward, Tuskegee Institute was chosen for an Army Air Corps program to determine if black men could be competent pilots. The pilots, many from small towns, passed rigorous tests to join what became known as the Fighting 99th squadron of the 332d Fighter Group. Mr. Anderson was chief flight instructor, a position that conferred the nickname Chief, by which he was widely known the rest of his life.
        The Tuskegee Airmen, as they have been called since, overcame extreme prejudice to win combat status (reportedly after Eleanor Roosevelt interceded with the President) and escorted American bombers over Europe and North Africa,  providing a virtually impenetrable shield while shooting down hundreds of German fighters.
        "We never lost a bomber to enemy air action," Herbert Carter, a member of the Tuskegee unit, said yesterday, recalling his 77 flak-filled missions. Mr. Carter, who retired from the Air Force as a lieutenant colonel in 1969, lives in Tuskegee and remained a close friend of his mentor.
        After the war, Mr. Anderson managed an aircraft-sales business and continued  to give flight instruction at Tuskegee. One of his students was Dr. Vascar Harris, an engineering professor at Tuskegee.
        "Flying with him was like flying with a bird -- it was just so natural," Dr.  Harris said yesterday. While other pilots might be able to gauge wind direction  mostly from instruments, Mr. Anderson could tell from looking down on ponds and fields, seeing how the water and the corn rippled "and which way the cows were facing," Dr. Harris said.
        But Mr. Anderson was never reckless, Dr. Harris said. He was skillful and prudent in bad weather, believing totally in the axiom that there are old pilots and bold pilots but no old bold pilots.
        Dr. Harris said his flying mentor recalled how, as a boy in Bridgeport, Pa.,  he would sometimes see an airplane -- not a common sight back then -- and become so enchanted by the sight that he would try to follow it on foot.
        Hours later and miles away, he would give up, then plod homeward to his relieved but furious parents.
        He once ran away from home, looking for airplanes rumored to be barnstorming  in the area.
        Mr. Anderson borrowed $2,500 from friends and relatives and bought a used airplane when he was 22. He learned to fly by reading books and getting tips from white pilots who were willing to be friendly. Not all were.
        In a poignant vignette of history, it took a German World War I pilot, Ernest Buehl, to persuade a reluctant government certifying pilot to fly with Mr. Anderson when the latter was trying to get a commercial license. Mr. Anderson passed and in 1932 became the first black pilot to hold an air transport license.
        Mr. Anderson flew a round-trip transcontinental flight in 1933 and is believed to have flown the first land plane to the Bahamas in 1934. Until then,  a seaplane was the normal way to reach the Bahamas by air.
        Mr. Anderson's son Charles said his father flew until a few years ago, gladly teaching anyone who wanted to learn. One who did was Mayor Johnny Ford of Tuskegee, who yesterday called Mr. Anderson "a good teacher and a great man."
        Mr. Anderson's wife of 62 years, Gertrude, died just over a year ago. Surviving are another son, Alfred, of Seattle; three grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      