
        George J. Balbach, a retired New York State Supreme Court justice who was long active in the civic affairs of Queens, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 86 and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens, and Oakdale, L.I.
        Justice Balbach was named to the bench 35 years ago to serve out a vacant term and was subsequently elected on his own. He retired in 1986 but continued to work as a judicial hearing officer until the end of last year.
        The most notorious proceedings before Justice Balbach came with the second trial of Alice Crimmins, the cocktail waitress charged in the 1965 deaths of her 4-year-old daughter and 5-year-old son. She was convicted in 1968 but won a retrial on appeal when it turned out that two jurors had paid an unauthorized visit to the crime scene. The trial before Justice Balbach again resulted in a conviction.
        Justice Balbach was born in Manhattan, where he and Robert F. Wagner were classmates at a Yorkville grammar school. He graduated from City College and Brooklyn Law School, both of which he attended at night while working as an office boy and clerk in a law office.
        He was admitted to the bar in 1935 and went into private practice and Democratic politics. A personal friend of Mr. Wagner, he worked for him as a campaign aide in Queens. In 1961, Mayor Wagner appointed him to the City Tax Commission.
        For many years, Justice Balbach served as a trustee of the Queens Borough Public Library, of which he was a past president and board chairman. He was a former chairman of the Steuben Society of America and president of the Rotary Club of New York.
        His other community interests included Wyckoff Heights Hospital and Elmhurst  Hospital Center. For his community involvement, the Brooklyn Archdiocese awarded him the Ubi Caritas, the highest honor for laymen in the Roman Catholic Church.
        Justice Balbach is survived by his wife of 62 years, Irene Esser Balbach; two daughters, Julia R. Bosomworth of Billerica, Mass., and Mary Shea of Smithtown,  L.I.; a son, George A., of Jackson Heights, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      