
        Tomas Gutierrez Alea, the celebrated Cuban director of "Memories of Underdevelopment," "Strawberry and Chocolate" and other films, died yesterday in Havana. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, the news agency Reuters reported.
        Generally regarded as Cuba's foremost director, Mr. Gutierrez Alea was a controversial film maker who found a wide popular audience. "Strawberry and Chocolate," the first Cuban film with an openly gay main character, was a major  box-office success in Cuba, the United States and other countries.
        In her review in the New York Times, Caryn James said that the "most amazing  aspect" of the film was that it was "a breezy charmer about a relationship shaped by severe political struggle." It was shown at the 1994 New York Film Festival and last year was nominated for an Academy Award as best foreign language film.
        Denying that he was a dissident, Mr. Gutierrez Alea said, "Many people think  if you criticize the government, then you are giving weapons to the enemy." On the other hand, he said, criticism was his obligation. He regarded himself as "a man who makes criticism inside the revolution, who wants to ameliorate the process, to perfect it, but not to destroy it."
        Mr. Gutierrez Alea was born in Havana and came from a wealthy Cuban family. Although he started out to be a lawyer, he soon switched careers and in the early 1950's went to Italy to study film. Inspired by neo-realism, he returned to Cuba to make documentaries. An early short film of his, made during the regime of Fulgencio Batista, was seized by the police. When Fidel Castro came to power, Mr. Gutierrez Alea directed his first feature, "Stories of the Revolution," an anthology of three stories about the Cuban revolution.
        Looking back on his early films, the director said: "You just had to set up your camera in the middle of the street and something interesting would happen.  That is how we learned to make movies in Cuba."
        Comedy was an important element in his work, as in "The 12 Chairs" and "Death of a Bureaucrat" (about the strangulation of society by red tape), which drew upon such sources as Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy.
        The director's reputation was firmly established in 1968 with "Memories of Underdevelopment," which dealt with an intellectual trying to find his place in  post-revolutionary Cuba. In his review in The Times, Vincent Canby called it a "superb Cuban film" that is "wise, sad and often funny" and "is complete in the  way that very few movies are." "The Last Supper" was greeted by Mr. Canby as "a  fine, cool, almost detached political parable told entirely in religious terms."
        "Strawberry and Chocolate" brought the director greater fame and an even wider audience. Because he became ill during the filming, he was assisted by his colleague Juan Carlos Tabio. The film, which starred Jorge Perugorria and Mirta  Ibarra (the director's wife), won prizes at many festivals and was released in the United States under the sponsorship of Robert Redford.
        Speaking about "Strawberry and Chocolate," Mr. Gutierrez Alea offered a characteristic call for freedom. He said the movie was "about the intolerance and incomprehension of those who are different, and that applies not only to homosexuals, but to everyone who is discriminated against."
        Despite his illness, he continued to work. After "Strawberry and Chocolate,"  he and Mr. Tabio made "Guantanamera," a satire about bureaucracy, one of the director's favorite subjects. When the film was shown last year at the Venice Film Festival, he said that absurdity was so much a part of daily life in Cuba "that what seems exaggerated is really true."
      