
        Philip B. Kurland, a constitutional scholar who concluded from a lengthy transcript of White House tape recordings in May 1974 that there was "substantial evidence" of perjury and obstruction of justice by President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate affair, died on Tuesday at Bernard Mitchell Hospital in Chicago. He was 74 and lived in Chicago.
        The University of Chicago, where Dr. Kurland taught law for 43 years, said that he had been under treatment for heart problems and that the cause of death  was pneumonia.
        As a professor of law, Dr. Kurland was a consultant to the Senate Judiciary  Committee at the time of Watergate and one of 12 legal scholars who said the transcripts contained material that would support an impeachment charge against  the President.
        "Even the most vehement of the President's supporters among my colleagues are shaken," he said after reviewing the 1,254 pages of edited tape transcripts. "They're in no mood to be kidding. I don't know if they are willing to come out  and join the lynching party, but I don't think they will stop it either."
        Referring to Mr. Nixon, Professor Kurland said in an interview, "From his own tapes, there is substantial evidence of subornation, of perjury and obstruction  of justice in the payments to blackmailers. He was searching for ways of influencing the grand jury or finding out what they were doing with a view to forestalling them."
        Four years after Mr. Nixon's resignation in 1974, Professor Kurland summed up his views in a book titled "Watergate and the Constitution."
        In 1987, he became involved in another Washington tempest involving the White House and the Senate Judiciary Committee. This time he was among the scholars consulted by Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, on President Ronald Reagan's nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court.
        Though considered a conservative, Professor Kurland soon reached the conclusion that Judge Bork, who sat on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, was a man who swung to the right on any issue if it would serve to promote himself. He made this assertion in an editorial in The Chicago Tribune.
        As the controversy over the nomination grew hotter, with some prominent lawyers like Lloyd N. Cutler, formerly the counsel to President Jimmy Carter, defending Judge Bork as a moderate, Professor Kurland weighed in with a trenchant analysis: "Bork is either the moderate, restrained New Deal-type jurist that he is depicted to be by some of his recent advocates in the press. Or he is the 'original intent' constitutional revisionist as he has depicted himself to be in his talks to the Federalist Society and in other forums throughout the country. Either way, the Senate is entitled to have the real Robert Bork presented to it for its advice and consent."
        This statement helped to frame the subsequent debate in the Judiciary Committee, which Senator Biden headed. A "battle of the law professors," ensued, ultimately with about 100 supporting Judge Bork and about 2,000 opposed, with Professor Kurland prominent among the latter.
        On Oct. 5, 1987, after three months of tempestuous hearings and arguments, the committee voted 9 to 5 to reject the Bork nomination. Two weeks later, a majority of the full Senate voted against Judge Bork.
        Philip B. Kurland was born Oct. 22, 1921, in Brooklyn. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1942, and graduated from Harvard Law School, where he was editor of the Harvard Law Review, in 1944.
        He clerked for Judge Jerome N. Frank of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit for a year, then served in 1945 as a clerk to Justice Felix Frankfurter of the Supreme Court. He subsequently worked for two years in the Justice Department.
        Then after a brief stint as a lawyer in New York, he joined the faculty of Northwestern University Law School. He moved to the University of Chicago law faculty in 1953 and was appointed professor of law there in 1956, a post he held for 40 years.
        In addition to his teaching duties, Professor Kurland wrote many legal studies including two books on Frankfurter and others on the Constitution. He was the founder of the Supreme Court Review, which he edited from its inception  in 1960 through 1988.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Alice Hoag Bator; three daughters, Julie R., Martha J. and Ellen S., and a sister, Arlene Shapiro. His first wife,  the former Mary Jane Krensky, died in 1992.
      