
        The only Senator from the Deep South to vote for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Ralph W. Yarborough, a liberal Democrat from Texas who fought to expand the role of the Federal Government in assisting veterans, workers, the poor and  the infirm, died today after a long illness, said DeAnna Dicuffa, an assistant who worked in his law office. He was 92 and lived in Austin.
        Mr. Yarborough spent nearly 14 years in the Senate; at the height of his influence, he was the chairman of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee. He was defeated in 1970 by Lloyd Bentsen, but Mr. Yarborough left a legacy of support for enhancing health care, increasing the Federal minimum wage and job training programs, and establishing new antipoverty efforts. He sponsored legislation known as the Cold War G.I. Bill to extend education benefits to five million veterans.
        One of Mr. Yarborough's first victories was the passage of the National Defense Education Act of 1958. In adopting the legislation, the Federal Government for the first time supported the principle that it should contribute  to higher education by making loans and grants available to universities and their students.
        On Nov. 22, 1963, Mr. Yarborough rode in the second car of the Dallas motorcade in which President John F. Kennedy was killed. He later criticized the Secret Service agents for failing to respond quickly enough, and he sponsored Federal legislation to offer assistance to the family of Officer J. D. Tippitt,  the Dallas policeman who was killed by Lee Harvey Oswald, President Kennedy's assassin.
        In 1967, reviewing his first decade in the Senate, Mr. Yarborough said his legislative goals had been the "conservation and improvement of all natural and  human resources."
        Breaking with the Democratic Party mainstream in the Vietnam War, he became a supporter of Eugene J. McCarthy in the divisive 1968 Presidential primaries. Before receiving an endorsement from Mr. Yarborough, Mr. McCarthy had received strong support in primaries, leading President Lyndon B. Johnson to decide not to seek re-election.
        "I liked Ralph," recalled George Reedy, the press secretary to President Johnson, a more moderate Democrat who often found himself being pulled to the left by Mr. Yarborough. "He was very honest, very idealistic, and he happened to hit at the moment when the labor-liberal coalition came alive, and he instantly became a leader.
        "Johnson was often trying to hold a middle course that was pretty difficult to do when you were around Ralph," Mr. Reedy said.
        Mr. Yarborough was born on a farm on June 8, 1903, in Chandler, Tex., the seventh of 11 children. By the time he graduated from the law school of the University of Texas in 1927, Mr. Yarborough had briefly attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, taught school, worked in a wheat field, helped to build oil tanks and worked on a freighter to get to Europe, where he studied for a year.
        During World War II, he served in Europe as an infantry officer and was in Czechoslovakia on V-E Day. Transferred to the Pacific, Mr. Yarborough served with occupation troops in Japan; by the end of the war, he had been promoted to  lieutenant colonel.
        He served as Assistant Attorney General from 1931 to 1935 and was a state judge from 1936 until the United States entered the war five years later.
        Mr. Yarborough ran for Governor three times in the 1950's but was defeated by conservative Democrats. In 1957, he won a special election for the Senate after  Price Daniel resigned to become Governor.
        In the Senate, he was closely allied with labor causes. His political nemesis through much of his political life was the Texas conservative John B. Connally,  who referred to Mr. Yarborough during one of their many feuds as "a very despicable man."
        After losing to Mr. Bentsen, Mr. Yarborough tried to return to the Senate in  1972. He lost a primary bid to challenge Senator John Tower, a Republican. Until this year, he had maintained an active law practice in Austin, focusing on the oil and gas business.
        Correction:  February 18, 1996, Sunday
        An obituary on Jan. 28 about former Senator Ralph Yarborough of Texas referred incorrectly in some editions to the vote on the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by members of Congress from the South. Five Senators and, in the final vote, 12 Representatives from the South approved the measure; Senator Yarborough was not the only Southerner to vote for it.
      