
        Alan Barwiolek, who helped found the New York Deaf Theater as part of a lifelong campaign to improve things for those in the silent world he was consigned to at birth, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 43 and had been associate professor of sign language studies at Union College in Plainfield, N.J.
        His companion, Tony Allicino, said that Mr. Barwick, who had AIDS, collapsed  and died at the door to the hospital's outpatient clinic. He had arrived to get  a blood transfusion after spending a typically strenuous week conducting workshops and making personal appearances on behalf of the deaf.
        In a nation in which 25 million people have some hearing impairment, Mr. Barwiolek, or Al B, as he was known to those who found Barwiolek (pronounced BAR-we-oh-lick) as difficult to sign as to spell, was among the 2.5 million or so who are profoundly deaf, unable to hear at all.
        Mr. Barwiolek, a native of Greensburg, Pa., whose parents were also deaf and  who had a deaf sister, was known as strong deaf, a term meaning the condition has a strong genetic component. Growing up deaf in a deaf family left Mr. Barwiolek with no sense of personal limitation, although it must have appeared quixotic when, as the first member of his family to attend college, he chose to  major in drama with the intention of becoming an actor.
        There were virtually no professional opportunities for actors who spoke only  sign language. Even in New York, where Mr. Barwiolek obtained a master's degree  in educational theater from New York University in 1975, there was no deaf theater company, at least until 1979, when Mr. Barwiolek and a group of fellow actors started one and turned it into a magnet for deaf and hearing audiences alike.
        Unlike conventional theater, in which simultaneous sign language translations are rare (and sometimes hidden in the shadows), New York Deaf Theater productions, staged at various rented theaters, offer full-throated vocal translations.
        Mr. Barwiolek, who appeared in several productions and directed several others, among them "A Play of Our Own," "Veronica's Room," and "25 Cents," could not support himself with his theater work, which included international tours with a partner, J. Charlie McKinney, in a series of satires on deaf culture.
        To make ends meet, he spent 10 years doing social work as a deaf-blind specialist with the New Jersey Commission for the Blind, and in 1986 took the job at Union College, which offers the only degree program in interpretation for the deaf in the New York area.
        He was also something of an underground investigator, who knew his rights under the Americans With Diabilities Act and took fierce pleasure in denouncing, say, hotels that had no teletype phones.
        And woe betide the waiter who grumbled at having to write down the day's restaurant specials. Mr. Barwiolek would invariably scan the laboriously written list, then order something from the printed menu.
        In addition to Mr. Allicino, he is survived by his father, Stanley, of Jeannette, Pa.
      