
        Brook Berringer, the Nebraska quarterback who overcame two collapsed lungs to become an essential part of the 1994 Cornhusker championship season, was killed  Thursday afternoon in the crash of a private plane in an alfalfa field in Raymond, Neb. He was 22.
        Berringer and Tobey Lake, the brother of Berringer's girlfriend, died when the two-seat, 1946 Piper J-3 Cub Berringer was piloting crashed shortly after takeoff from a grass airstrip not far from Lincoln.
        Berringer, who was expected to be selected in the National Football League draft this weekend, held a pilot's license. Harry Barr, the owner of the 50-year-old plane, said Berringer had flown more than 100 hours over the last three years. Barr said Berringer had flown the plane an average of twice a month and had not gone more than four miles from the airstrip.
        The university canceled a celebration marking its repeat championship in 1995 scheduled for last night.
        During the emotional 1994 season, Nebraska's first championship in 23 years,  Berringer started seven games as a junior after Tommie Frazier, the heralded first-string quarterback, developed blood clots in his right leg. Wearing special protection for his chest, operating an offense slightly readjusted to make use of his passing skills, Berringer completed 94 of 151 passes, 62 percent, for 1,295 yards, 10 touchdowns and 5 interceptions.
        Before his junior season, Berringer had completed a total of 17 passes at Nebraska. But as teammates adjusted to the jolt of Frazier's absence and the frightening possibilities the blood clots created, Berringer's leadership helped return the Huskers to business.
        Frazier won back the starting spot in the Orange Bowl after a Christmas Eve scrimmage. But Berringer came off the bench in the secon' quarter, throwing a 19-yard touchdown pass at the end of a 40-yard scoring drive after Nebraska had  fallen 10 points behind the University of Miami. The Cornhuskers won, 24-17.
        Berringer returned to his backup role last season, completing 26 of 51 passes for 252 yards in the 9 games he played. In a controversial and perfect Nebraska  season, Berringer became an afterthought. He scored a 1-yard touchdown for the final Nebraska points in the 62-24 Fiesta Bowl victory over Florida.
        Berringer is survived by his mother, Jan; his grandparents Lois and Bill Berringer, all of Goodland, Kan., and two sisters, Nicoel and Drue. His father died when he was 7.
      