
        Charles Shannon, a painter and teacher who discovered the artist Bill Traylor, died on April 5 at his home in Montgomery, Ala. He was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Eugenia Carter Shannon.
        Mr. Shannon was born in Montgomery, and spent most of his life there.
        When he was 15, he enrolled at Emory University in Atlanta. Two years later,  he switched to the Cleveland School of Art.
        After graduating, he returned to Alabama and built a log-cabin studio in Butler County, 40 miles south of Montgomery.
        His paintings of the South, which often focused on black people, were well received.
        One, "The Lover," was exhibited in 1938 at the Jacques Seligmann Gallery in Manhattan and at the Golden Gate International Exhibition in San Francisco, where it won a prize. It is now in the collection of the Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts.
        After the exhibition, he was awarded a Julius Rosenwald Fellowship "for Southerners who are working on problems distinctive to the South."
        He used part of the income to help finance New South, a cooperative venture in Montgomery that promoted the arts in a theater and a gallery.
        Mr. Shannon met Bill Traylor in 1939, as the older man, then 85, was just beginning to draw and paint.
        Traylor, a self-taught artist who was born a slave on a plantation between Montgomery and Selma, was sitting on a box in the street drawing, near the fish  markets and produce stands in downtown Montgomery.
        Mr. Shannon gave him financial support, buying his abstract paintings as well as those of men in tall hats with walking sticks or carrying suitcases and of women wearing richly patterned dresses.
        He also arranged the first Traylor exhibition, at the New South gallery in 1940. Full recognition of Traylor's art did not come until the 1980's, long after his death in 1947.
        In 1992, Traylor's heirs sued Mr.  Shannon for a portion of the proceeds from sales of his work. A year later, when they settled out of court, relatives of Traylor said they believed that Mr. Shannon had contributed to the artist's support and his later recognition.
        Last year, Mr. Shannon and his wife made gifts or promised gifts of 12 Traylor works to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        They also gave eight drawings to the Museum of Modern Art and one to the Whitney Museum of American Art.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Shannon is survived by three children, Rebecca Carter Shannon of San Francisco, Eugenia Shannon Pyrlik of Delano, Tenn., and Walter C. Fields of Port St. Joe, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      