
        Dr. Ronald Boyce Mackenzie, an epidemiologist who dealt with such diverse matters as a mystery killer virus in South America and the fitness of professional athletes and firefighters in California, died on Monday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 71.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Mackenzie retired in 1988 as medical director of the National Athletic Health Institute at Centinella Hospital in Inglewood, Calif., now known as the Centinella Hospital Fitness Institute. Centinella, which has an international reputation for its orthopedic procedures, serves as the official hospital of professional sports teams in the Los Angeles area.
        In his nine years as medical director, Dr. Mackenzie gave preseason physicals to players for the Lakers, Rams, Angels and Dodgers. He looked after the fitness of jockeys, golfers and the members of several police and fire departments.
        Dr. Mackenzie's encounter with the deadly virus, known as Bolivian hemorrhagic fever virus, started in 1962 when he was a staff epidemiologist at the United States Middle America Research Unit in the Panama Canal Zone. At the  request of the Bolivian Minister of Health, he led a team from the National Institutes of Health to find and eradicate the killer.
        A puzzling epidemic had erupted in 1959 in Bolivia's tropical Beni department, centered on one town, San Joaquin. The fever struck 1,100 people, killing nearly one-quarter.
        On the scene, Dr. Mackenzie and his team did microscope studies on birds, insects and rodents. He contracted the fever, was treated in Panama and returned to San Joaquin for the hunt.
        He isolated the Machupo virus, which caused the disease, in 1963, but the carrier eluded him for another year. The villain, he found, was a mouse, Calomys callosus, known locally as the laucha.
        Exterminators got rid of the pest with traps and poison; the epidemic went away as suddenly as it had broken out. Dr. Mackenzie's conclusion: the disease could have spread only because residents did not keep cats in their houes.
        The President of Bolivia thanked Dr. Mackenzie with one of the country's highest civilian awards, the Condor de los Andes Medal.
        Dr. Mackenzie was born in Cumberland, Wis. He graduated from the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, L.I., and served in the Navy in World War II. He  earned his medical degree in 1953 and practiced for a time in Sausalito, Calif.  In 1961 he received a master's in public health and went to Panama.
        He completed graduate studies in virology at the Yale School of Public Health in 1965 and then worked in Colombia and Venezuela and at institutions in California before joining Centinella in 1979. In retirement, he wrote a history  of the Merchant Marine Cadet Corps in World War II, which, his family said, is awaiting publication.
        Dr. Mackenzie is survived by his wife, Rose Redondo Mackenzie; a son, Nicol of Salinas, Calif.; a daughter, Mary Jo Jensen of Port Townsend, Wash.; three stepdaughters, Carolyn Garcia and Kathy Egan of Los Angeles, and Christina Rose  of Vancouver, B.C., and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 22, 1996, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Dr. Ronald Boyce Mackenzie, an epidemiologist, misspelled the name of the institute where he once worked. It is the Centinela Hospital Fitness Institute, not Centinella.
      