
        Stephen Z. Meyers, the visionary legal practitioner who helped revolutionize  the practice of law as a founder of Jacoby & Meyers, the nation's first mass-market law firm, was killed Friday night when the car he was driving collided with a delivery truck on a winding country road in New Fairfield, Conn. He was 53.
        Mr. Meyers was driving his 27-year-old stepdaughter, Brooke Harmon Berryman,  from New York to his weekend home in West Cornwall, Conn., when the accident occurred shortly before 7 P.M. on Route 37 near the Sherman town line. Mrs. Berryman, who lives in Middletown, Conn., suffered a broken leg and other injuries.
        The death of Mr. Meyers caused consternation on two coasts -- in Los Angeles, where he and a classmate at the University of California at Los Angeles Law School, Leonard G. Jacoby, created their innovative storefront firm in 1972, and in New York, where Mr. Meyers and his second wife, Millie Harmon Meyers, have been social leaders since they moved to the city in 1984.
        Their penthouse apartment in the Flatiron district of Manhattan, where the couple had entertained often and well, was transformed into a center of mourning for the prominent and the powerful yesterday as well-known friends, like Jeff Greenfield and Cokie Roberts, the television newscasters, and Mickey Kantor, the Secretary of Commerce, came to console Mrs. Meyers, the former volunteer coordinator for the Clinton-Gore Presidential campaign.
        She is now chief of protocol for Madeleine K. Albright, the chief United States representative to the United Nations. Yesterday's condolences had a special poignancy: her first husband, Ellis J. Harmon, a California lawyer, was  killed in a boating accident many years ago.
        In Los Angeles, Mr. Jacoby, who had recently reached what he called an amicable resolution of a well-publicized business dispute with Mr. Meyers, recalled the early days.
        Mr. Meyers, whose father was a peripatetic business professor, was born in Washington and grew up in Austin, Tex., and Los Angeles. After graduating from University of California at Berkeley, he went to U.C.L.A. law school, where the  friendship that would rock the legal profession and make television commercials  for lawyers as ubiquitous as those for soap, began as a byproduct of an alphabetical accident.
        Because their names were three letters apart, Mr. Jacoby recalled, he and Mr. Meyers were assigned to the same section as first-year law students, took all their classes together and became fast friends.
        But they drifted apart after graduation in 1967. Mr. Jacoby entered private practice in Los Angeles while his idealistic friend joined California Rural Legal Assistance to represent migrant farm workers.
        After a few years, Mr. Meyers, too, joined a Los Angeles firm. He specialized in the hot new field of consumer law, filing class actions on behalf of customers and others who felt aggrieved by businesses, and in one case, Mr. Jacoby recalled, winning hundreds of millions of dollars for musicians represented by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers.
        Meeting by chance at a consumer conference in 1972, they renewed their friendship and within months were caught up in a grand scheme, to rectify what they saw as a void in the practice of law.
        Recognizing that the rich could afford lawyers and the poor had access to free assistance programs, they focused on providing affordable counsel to the average person, whose small legal problems did not justify the expense of hiring a lawyer at prevailing rates.
        The vision they came to share was of a far-flung multioffice firm with walk-in neighborhood clinics staffed by general practitioners with access to teams of specialists in bankruptcy, criminal law and the like who could be called on as needed.
        The dream came true in the San Fernando Valley on Sept. 13., 1972, when the first Jacoby & Meyers office opened in a storefront in Van Nuys, Calif.
        The first client was a man whose car had been repossessed. Mr. Jacoby, no longer recalls what the man paid beyond the $15 consultation fee, but remembers  he had no reason to complain. "We made a few phone calls and he got his car back," he said.
        Although it would be five years before the Supreme Court would clear the way  for lawyers to advertise, Jacoby & Meyers, which had arranged for a consumers' group to hold an open house at the firm, opened with considerable fanfare, so much so that after their grand opening garnered glowing coverage on television and in the local press, including extensive interviews with the two lawyers, the legal establishment became alarmed.
        Arguing that talking so openly to the media about their innovative, low-cost  practice amounted to advertising, which was strictly prohibited by the California Bar Association code of ethics, the association charged the two lawyers with a breach of ethics and the battle for free speech was on.
        The case touched off a national debate about the propriety of clubby legal ethics that many thought kept fees artificially high.
        As their case made its way through the California courts, an Arizona firm with a similar battle took its case to the Federal courts.
        Within a month in 1972, the California Supreme Court ruled that lawyers could give interviews, and the United States Supreme Court ruled that lawyers could advertise to a fare-thee-well.
        A day later Jacoby & Meyers ran their first ad, in The Los Angeles Times, and within a few days after that the firm was on the air with the nation's first legal commercial.
        The firm expanded rapidly after that, opening a New York office in 1979 with  Gail Koff as a low-profile partner, and by the mid 1980's it had grown to some 300 lawyers in 150 offices in six states.
        Their very success, which spawned an army of low-cost imitators forced a significant retrenchment, and in recent years as the firm has shifted direction, focusing on personal-injury cases.
        Mr. Meyers, who was always in charge of financing, media strategy and what Mr. Jacoby called "the big picture," moved to New York in 1984 and with his wife was soon at the center of a fast-track social life.
        For all his success, Mr. Meyers seemed less at home hobnobbing with business  leaders in the paneled board rooms of New York than rooting among the cucumbers  in his beloved garden at his house in Connecticut. Friends who dropped in over the last year were at risk of being put to work on his latest grand scheme, building a chicken house.
        Apparently it was a success. The first crop of spring chickens, friends said, are due any day. In addition to his wife and stepdaughter, Mr. Meyers is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Jessica Slack of Marin County, Calif.; two other stepdaughters, Victoria Harmon of Washington and Elise Harmon  of San Francisco; his father, Frederick Meyers of Hilton Head, S.C., and a sister, Sarah Allen of North Hanover, Vt.
        Correction:  April 23, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary on Sunday about Stephen Z. Meyers, a founder of the Jacoby & Meyers law firm, misstated his father's surname in some editions. The name is Frederick Meyers, not Harmon.
      