
        David Michael Ifshin, a Washington lawyer who was active in Democratic Party  affairs and was a lobbyist for Jewish causes, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 47.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Ifshin, who had worked in Democratic campaigns since 1968, was general counsel for Bill Clinton's Presidential campaign committee in 1992 and Walter F. Mondale's Presidential campaign in 1984.
        Since 1985, Mr. Ifshin was general counsel and member of the executive committee of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a Jewish lobby in Washington, and was active in the Anti-Defamation League, the American Jewish Committee and the Coalition for a Democratic Majority.
        An authority on campaign financing, he served on the American Bar Association's standing committee on election law. He was a partner in the Washington law firm Ifshin & Friedman and was senior vice president for Cassidy  & Associates, a political consulting firm in Washington.
        Mr. Ifshin was born in Washington, received a bachelor's degree from Syracuse University in 1971 and a Doctor of Laws from Stanford University in 1977.
        His political views caused a stir while he was still a student. As president  of the National Student Association in 1970, he went to Hanoi and urged American troops to turn against the Vietnam War. His remarks were broadcast over Radio Hanoi, causing a furor at a time when the United States was still fighting Communists in Indochina.
        Mr. Ifshin's views became more conservative over time. In the early 1970's he spent a year at a kibbutz in Israel, in the process becoming increasingly committed to the welfare of Israel. Over the last 10 years he regularly led bipartisan groups of elected officials and political consultants on weeklong trips to Israel.
        Mr. Ifshin is survived by his wife, the former Gail Grossman; three children, Jake, 10, Ben, 9, and Chloe, 6; his parents, Harold and Shirley Ifshin of Potomac; two sisters, Vicki Zell of Clarksville, Md., and Barbara Ifshin of Orlando, Fla.; and a brother, Mark, of Wilmington, Del.
      