
        Dr. John J. Wasmuth, a biochemist and leader of a team of molecular researchers who tracked down genes responsible for inherited diseases like dwarfism and Huntington's disease, died on Friday at Mission Hospital Regional Medical Center in Mission Viejo, Calif. He was 49 and lived in Mission Viejo.
        The family asked that the cause and circumstances of his death be withheld, said Susan Menning, a spokeswoman for the University of California at Irvine, where Dr. Wasmuth was a faculty member. But The Orange County Register reported  that he collapsed at his home and arrived at the emergency room without a heartbeat.
        Dr. Wasmuth joined the faculty of the university's College of Medicine in 1977 and directed the National Human Genome Center there. Last year his researchers identified the genetic abnormality that causes spinal muscular atrophy, making possible a prenatal genetic screening for couples with a family  history of the disease.
        The very success of his work, however, left him with a sense of unease about  the potential misuse of the findings that he and other geneticists established in recent years.
        "Once you find the mutation that causes the genetic disorder, and you put the information out there, people can use it any way they want," he told The Los Angeles Times in 1994, adding that the lack of long-range planning troubled him.
        "We had no idea of the implications of splitting the atom," he said. "Now we  can have the information that would allow us to substitute our personal selection for natural selection."
        Dr. Wasmuth took part in an international hunt for the genetic defect that causes Huntington's disease, which attacks the nervous system and affects 1 in 10,000 people. His team was the first to find the defect, in 1993. That led the  National Institutes of Health to designate his laboratory as a National Center for Genome Science and award it a three-year $3.7 million grant.
        The following year his laboratory played a vital role in identifying the gene and exact mutations that cause achondroplasia, the most common genetic form of dwarfism, affecting 1 in 20,000 people. The team found it just six months after  starting the search, although it had the benefit of 10 years of intensive study  of the chromosome involved.
        "It's a lot of luck," he said at the time, "but also the fact that we laid a  huge amount of groundwork."
        Dr. Wasmuth was born in Greenville, Ill., and became the first member of his  family to finish college. He graduated from Southern Illinois University and earned a doctorate in molecular biology at Purdue University.
        Dr. Wasmuth is survived by his wife, Judy; a daughter, Michele Bones of San Diego; his mother, Alice, of Greenville; two sisters, Phyllis Johnson of Highland, Ill., and Mary Morrow of Denver, and one grandson.
      