
        The Rev. Ralph Harper, a philosopher and theologian who wrote more than a dozen books exploring existentialist themes in modern literary classics, in fairy tales and even in spy thrillers, died yesterday at the Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 80 and lived in Monkton, Md.
        The cause of death was metastatic melanoma, said Dr. James C. Harris, a family friend.
        In 1992, Mr. Harper's book "On Presence" won the Louisville Grawemeyer Award in Religion. The $150,000 prize was paid for by H. Charles Grawemeyer, an industrialist in Louisville, Ky., and bestowed by the University of Louisville and the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary. The award put a spotlight  on an unconventional philosopher and theologian who had labored for many years in relative obscurity.
        "I've always been a kind of outsider, both in the scholarly world and the clerical world," Mr. Harper, an Episcopal priest who became an adjunct professor of humanities at Johns Hopkins University, said then.
        "On Presence" was a suggestive book of 140 pages in which he tried to capture and interpret elusive but precious moments when all barriers keeping the self isolated dissolve and reality floods in, complete and immediate. These were moments, in Mr. Harper's account, that were found in personal intimacy, in exultation at natural beauty or art and in encounters with God either in nature  or "the still small voice within."
        The book circles around this notion of "presence," drawing on philosophers like Kierkegaard, Heidegger and Marcel, on theologians like Augustine, Aquinas and Tillich, on mystics like Meister Eckhart and John of the Cross and on novelists like Dostoyevsky and especially Proust.
        Mr. Harper's prize-winning book, which he called the "culmination of all I have written," had been rejected by 20 publishers and almost totally rewritten three times before Trinity International Press in Philadelphia accepted it.
        That was only one way in which his work and life seemed to illustrate the solitude, sense of incompleteness and tragic self-awareness, as well as the lightning strokes of grace, depicted in the philosophy he helped introduce to the United States with his 1948 book, "Existentialism: A Theory of Man" (Harvard).
        Ralph Harper, who was born in Winthrop, Mass., graduated from Harvard in 1937 and studied philosophy and theology at Oxford and Fribourg but earned no further degrees. Indeed, his pioneering book on existentialism grew out of a dissertation rejected at Oxford. All in all, Mr. Harper said in 1992 that he had led "a very lonely intellectual life" in which for many years he had "no direct  conversation partners" except books.
        Although his father was an Episcopal clergyman, and his younger brother, the  Rev. John Harper, served as rector of St. John's Episcopal Church in Washington, Mr. Harper himself left the Episcopal Church to become a Roman Catholic for a decade after college.
        Yet he did not find a home in American Catholicism. "I wasn't Irish or a priest," he said, and as a married man was not eligible for the priesthood he sought. He returned to the Episcopal Church and was ordained, at 39, after a course of private study and examination rather than attending a seminary.
        For 22 years, he was rector of St. James Church in Monkton, where he continued to live after retiring in 1980. But he said "parish life was difficult for an ungregarious person like myself" and found greater satisfaction in his teaching.
        Besides teaching at Johns Hopkins since 1960, he had taught briefly at St. John's College in Annapolis, Md; at Harvard, and at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., where he was also chaplain. From 1952 to 1956 he was  director of the Yale Institute for Religion in Independent Schools and of the Council for Religion in Independent Schools. He received Guggenheim Fellowships  in 1956 and in 1975.
        Even the belated and unexpected acclaim Mr. Harper received for "On Presence" left him only temporarily content. In a final, still sparer book, "The Second Chance" (Trinity Press International, 1993), he acknowledged having gnawing doubts about the value of his lifelong study of the interior life, a crisis of spirit resolved only by a kind of vision undergone on the Greek island of Patmos at the place where tradition holds that the Book of Revelation was written.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Harper is survived by his wife, Rita; two sons, David, of Crownsville, Md., and Andrew, of Groton, Vt., and two grandchildren.
      