
        Jack McCarthy, who mixed a bit of a brogue and a fount of Irish lore into the elixir that charmed thousands of television viewers in his 41 years as the anchor of WPIX's coverage of St. Patrick's Day events, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Tara said.
        Besides being Mr. St. Patrick's Day for so many New Yorkers, Mr. McCarthy was the beguiling Cap'n Jack ("No script; I had a ball," he said) on the children's cartoon show "Cap'n Jack and Popeye" on WPIX from 1963 to 1972.
        But the wavy-haired Mr. McCarthy was best known for the annual parade coverage that grew unexpectedly out of WPIX's effort to test a new camera and microphone on St. Patrick's Day in 1949.
        Mr. McCarthy was supposed to be on the air for 45 minutes, his daughter said. But as Mr. McCarthy once recalled, the station received a "tremendous response"  from viewers. The 45 minutes was extended to five hours, and a tradition was born.
        Mr. McCarthy continued to cover the parade each March for WPIX even after he  started a new career as director of broadcast services for the Offtrack Betting  Corporation. He retired from that job in 1985, and the last parade he broadcast  was in 1989.
        Mr. McCarthy always felt his strong suit was his ability to think on his feet and keep talking. "If necessary," he said, "I can do an hour on the weather."
        But he spent a good deal of time at the Irish Historical Institute on Fifth Avenue doing the research that garnished his St. Patrick's Day broadcasts with Irish and Irish-American history, folklore and anecdotes. He read many Irish periodicals and made frequent trips to the land where his mother, the former Mary Ann Smith, and his father, Philip Michael McCarthy, were born.
        On the day that the Big Apple was transformed into the Big Shamrock, as Mr. McCarthy was fond of saying, he would tell his listeners that 65 percent of all  Medal of Honor winners were of Irish descent and 95 percent of General Custer's  troops at Little Big Horn were Irish. He offered frequent quotations from such Irish patriots as Robert Emmet, Daniel O'Connell and Charles Stewart Parnell.
        In 1984 came a high point in his parade coverage. As the county associations  toward the rear of the parade marched past -- "the part of the parade that strikes a responsive chord," he said -- Mr. McCarthy joined their numbers, flanked by his son Peter, then a major in the Air Force, and by Peter's son, Michael. Hand in hand, the three generations of McCarthys marched up Fifth Avenue. There were tears in Mr. McCarthy's eyes.
        He liked to say he was born "on 52d Street off Fifth Avenue." Then he would pause and add, "Five blocks off."
        His full name was John Joseph McCarthy, and he grew up in a traditional Irish setting that required a performance: "Sean, recite a speech," he recalled. "Marie, give us a dance."
        Mr. McCarthy said, "I knew the words of Robert Emmet's speech at the dock before I knew the Gettysburg Address."
        Though it was apparent early that Mr. McCarthy had a way with words, he had his sights set on a career in sports during his days at Manhattan Commerce High  School, where he excelled in baseball, football and boxing. But a football injury ended that dream.
        He graduated in 1932, decided he wanted to become a radio announcer and was hired by NBC as a page in 1933. In 1939, at age 25, he became the company's youngest staff announcer.
        He spent a few fruitless years in Hollywood in the 1940's, and returned to New York to work for ABC, covering sports and special events. In 1948, he was hired by WPIX.
        In addition to his daughter Tara, Mr. McCarthy is survived by four other children: Anne, of Riverdale, the Bronx; Joan, of Morro Bay, Calif.; Peter, of San Antonio, Tex., and Sean, of Yonkers; a sister, Marie Heiles of Tuckahoe, N.Y., and one grandchild.
      