
        Dr. Mathew Alpern, a physiologist at the University of Michigan who took some of the mystery out of color vision and color blindness, died on May 16 at U-M Hospitals in Ann Arbor. Dr. Alpern, who lived in Ann Arbor, was 75.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, the university said.
        A good part of what medical science knows about the mechanisms of human vision and the nature of color-vision defects stems from Dr. Alpern's studies at the Vision Research Laboratory at the university's Medical School. After a quarter-century in the field, he retired as professor emeritus of physiological  optics and psychology in 1991, the year that he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Alpern's contributions covered many aspects of sight, and some of his papers on psychophysics -- the relationships between physical stimuli and the resultant sensations -- are considered classics. Among other subjects, he explored pigment deficits in people with abnormal three-color vision.
        His studies of optics affected areas like contact lenses, prisms, scattered light and astigmatism, an irregularity in the curvature of the lens. As for eye  movement, he made his mark with work on the divergence and convergence of light  rays entering the lens, as well as on the involuntary movements the eyes make when scanning a line of type.
        He was an authority on the physiology of the pupillary light reflex and, with other ophthalmologists, invented a technique known as focal electroretinography. That allows the precise measurement of the electric response of the retinal cones -- cells that serve light and color vision and visual acuity -- for the diagnosis of various eye diseases.
        Dr. Alpern was born in Akron, Ohio. He graduated from the University of Florida in 1946 after wartime service in the Army, and he earned a doctorate in  physiological optics at Ohio State University in 1950.
        Dr. Alpern enrolled at Pacific University in Forest Grove, Ore., in 1951. Four years later, he arrived at the Ann Arbor campus as an instructor in ophthalmology and a research associate in the vision laboratory.
        Surviving are his wife of 45 years, Rebecca Elsner Alpern; two sons, Bowen, of Peekskill, N.Y., and Aaron, of Chicago; two daughters, Ann Alpern of Ann Arbor and Barbara McGuinness of Chelsea, Mich.; a sister, Esther Frankle of La Jolla, Calif.; a brother, Sol, of Lorain, Ohio, and nine grandchildren.
      