
        James F. Comstock, a homespun humorist who published the weekly West Virginia Hillbilly and compiled a definitive 51-volume encyclopedia of West Virginia history, died on Wednesday at St. Mary's Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. He was 85.
        Mr. Comstock lived in Richwood, 100 miles east of Charleston, W.Va.
        Besides devoting 20 years to the West Virginia Heritage Encyclopedia, Mr. Comstock collected and republished out-of-print books by and about West Virginians, and he led a campaign to preserve the house in Hillsboro, W.Va., where Pearl S. Buck, the Nobel Prize-winning novelist, was born.
        In his mischievous moments, Mr. Comstock once printed one of his newspapers using ink mixed to incorporate the smell of ramp, the wild garlic that abounds in the spring around Richwood. The effect on the air quality of the post office  prompted the postmaster to make him promise never to do it again.
        Mr. Comstock financed the purchase of a new printing press by selling 25-year subscriptions for $25 (the last one ran out in 1977). He twitted the Kinsey report on "Sexual Behavior in the Human Female" by conducting his own survey of  the sexual behavior of the Richwood (population 3,000) female.
        When Mr. Comstock poked fun at the do-it-yourself fad by writing an article on how to remove your own appendix, he received a request for instructions from  a man named R. W. C. Fox in England. Mr. Comstock once said that after he died,  he intended to find Mr. Fox so he could ask him what brought him there.
        In 1964, in one of his most prominent escapades, Mr. Comstock ran for Congress as the Republican candidate from the Third District in West Virginia, traditionally a Democratic stronghold.
        Having promised to run a campaign free of the cares and worries of politics,  he came out against motherhood, saying he could not support the institution "when relief agencies encourage unmarried females to become mothers to get a dole."
        Mr. Comstock lost the election.
        Until his death, Mr. Comstock remained active in the affairs of The News Leader, the weekly newspaper he founded in 1946 with Bronson McClung, one of his students in the Depression days when Mr. Comstock was a high school English teacher.
        For The West Virginia Hillbilly, a repository of Appalachian humor that he and Mr. McClung started in 1957, Mr. Comstock wrote a column called The Comstock Lode. The column was often based on his conversations with the hitchhikers he invariably picked up in his travels around the state that he adored and which revered him.
        In its heyday in the 1960's and 70's, The West Virginia Hillbilly had a circulation of 30,000, with many readers outside West Virginia. The paper's run  ended in 1980, because Mr. Comstock found himself stretched thin.
        He traced the beginnings of his encyclopedia to 1957, the early days of The Hillbilly, when he found himself unable to answer schoolchildren's questions about state history. After the encyclopedia was completed in 1977, he said: "I look back on it and wonder how it was ever done. It was a great labor of love, and I feel enriched."
        All 3,000 copies were sold, and many of them are in the state's public and academic libraries.
        Mr. Comstock was born in Richwood in 1911. After graduating from the local high school, he received a B.A. in English in 1934 from Marshall College. Although he hoped to become a journalist, he found himself teaching high school  English in Richwood. But when the Board of Education had trouble meeting its payroll, Mr. Comstock took a job in the military industry after the outbreak of  World War II.
        He soon found the manufacture of gun barrels so boring that he enlisted in the Navy and became a lieutenant assigned to decoding messages on Guam.
        When he returned to civilian life, he worked for a time as a correspondent for The Clarksburg (West Virginia) Exponent Telegram before starting his own newspaper.
        Mr. Comstock is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Ola Stowers of Richwood; two daughters, Sandra Ferguson of Oak Hill, W.Va., and Elaine Nagy of  Richmond, Va.; a son, Jay, of Richwood; two brothers, Warren, of Los Angeles, and Earl, of Hurricane, W.Va.; and four sisters, Mildred White and Madeline Comstock, both of Tucson, Ariz.; Marjorie Ciestza of Jacksonville, Fla., and Mary Theis of Port Neches, Tex.
      