
        Charles Stuart Dennison, an executive who advised governments from Washington to Senegal on economic development, the environment, science and technology and  other policy issues, died last Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe,  N.M. He was 78.
        A Santa Fe resident for the past eight years, Mr. Dennison formerly lived in  Manhattan and Washington.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Dennison's business career grew to reflect his interest in international affairs. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations for nearly 30 years and a strong advocate of private investments in Third World countries.
        Born on March 21, 1918, in Manhattan, he studied international relations at Columbia and New York Universities, although he never earned a degree. In 1936,  he entered an executive training program at the General Motors Corporation. He then became a junior executive at the United States Steel Export Company.
        In World War II he served with the "Screaming Eagles" of the Army's 101st Airborne, where he became a captain.
        After the war, as an executive with several companies in the United States and abroad, he traveled to London, Australia, Panama, Senegal and other countries. At the request of Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, he set up a large  privately owned fertilizer plant in India that helped lessen the country's food shortages.
        He was a member of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Science Advisory Committee and, as a Presidential adviser on the world's food supply, worked with the United Nations Environment Program. He was also an executive with the United Nations' Food and Agricultural Organization in Rome, the National Academy of Sciences, the Council of the Americas and the Organization of American States.
        He lectured and held seminars at universities and governmental conferences around the world. He was a board member of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists and contributed articles to the journals Foreign Affairs, Asia and others.
        Mr. Dennison is survived by his wife of 45 years, Carol Krueger Dennison; a daughter, Deborah of Santa Fe and a stepdaughter, Laura Hardie of Brooklyn.
      