
        Barney Wilen, a French saxophonist who performed regularly with American jazz musicians, died on Saturday. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer, the French press reported.
        Mr. Wilen came to international prominence in 1957 as a sideman for Miles Davis on the legendary soundtrack recording session for "Ascenseur pour l'Echafaud" ("Elevator to the Gallows"), the film by Louis Malle. Mr. Wilen was  one of the best European musicians of his generation, having absorbed the playing of Sonny Rollins, Sonny Stitt, Charlie Parker and others. He was a fluid, effortless soloist who mastered the American idiom, and when American musicians toured Europe, they often hired Mr. Wilen to augment the front lines of their bands.
        He performed and recorded with some of the most outstanding jazz musicians of the time, including Davis, Art Blakey, Dizzy Gillespie, Thelonious Monk, J. J. Johnson, John Lewis and Bud Powell. American musicians felt at ease with him, as he had lived in the United States during World War II, returning to France in 1946.
        For the next several years, Mr. Wilen studied saxophone and played in Nice in his family band. In 1953, he moved to Paris, where he played at a club called Tabou, with Jimmy Gorley, Bobby Jaspar and other Paris-based jazz musicians. In  1957, he won the Prix Django Reinhardt from the French Academy of Jazz and two years later he performed at the Newport Jazz Festival.
        Mr. Wilen spent several years composing soundtracks, including "Femmes Disparaissent," "Jazz sur Seine" and "Un Temoin dans la Ville," all directed by  Edouard Molinaro. For the next two decades, Mr. Wilen moved in and out of the jazz world. After experimenting with Indian music, Mr. Wilen took up an interest in European free jazz, and in 1968 made what is now a cult record, "Dear Professor Leary."
        Mr. Wilen became attracted to contemporary music and spent several months in  Africa in the early 1970's. A recording, "Moshi," from 1972, dealt with his African experiences.
        In the 1980's, he rejoined the jazz scene. The rekindled interest in be-bop found him returning to his musical roots, and he once again toured and made concert appearances.
      