
        David B. Kriser, a major benefactor of Beth Israel Medical Center and New York University, where various medical services bear his name, died on Sunday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 90.
        Mr. Kriser, a retired industrialist, was a vice chairman of the medical center's board and a life trustee of New York University. He was born in Yonkers, graduated from Cornell University and N.Y.U. Law School and spent his business career with the Industrial Plants Corporation, based in Manhattan.
        Over the years, Mr. Kriser donated nearly $6 million to Beth Israel. Its Department of Emergency Medicine, which treats more than 60,000 patients a year, is named in his honor.
        There are also the Kriser Psychiatric Pavilion and the David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center. He made a $1 million challenge grant earlier this year to bolster that center and played a central role in creating its methadone and alcoholism programs.
        He firmed his ties to N.Y.U. after he received his law degree in 1928. He became a consistent backer of the College of Dentistry and specifically its Preventive Therapy Clinic, the Institute for the Rehabilitation of Disabled Dentists, the Oro-Facial Pain Center and the Oral Cancer Center. In recognition, N.Y.U. named the David B. Kriser Dental Center after him in 1987.
        Among his other beneficiaries were Big Brothers/Big Sisters of New York City, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, St. Francis Hospital of Port Jervis, N.Y., and the city chapter of the National Council on Alcoholism.
        After law school, Mr. Kriser became secretary and president of the Industrial Plants Corporation, appraisers, auctioneers and liquidators of all types of machinery, manufacturing plants and equipment. He worked for the Army in the Pentagon during World War II, gearing up wartime production in small industries  and rising to the rank of major.
        He resumed his corporate positions after the war as a specialist in appraisals and liquidations. He retired in 1979.
        Mr. Kriser is survived by a son, Gregory, who lives in New Jersey; two brothers, Leonard, of Highland Park, Ill., and Sidney, of Manhattan; a sister, Henrietta Blatner of Hallandale, Fla.; his longtime companion, Marilyn Matthews, and a grandson.
      