
        Jerry R. Junkins, who rose from the factory floor to become chairman of Texas Instruments Inc., where he helped revive the American computer chip industry during the last decade, died yesterday. He was 58 and lived in Dallas.
        Mr. Junkins suffered a heart attack while on a business trip to Stuttgart, Germany, where he was visiting customers, said Stan Victor, a spokesman for Texas Instruments. Mr. Junkins had no history of heart disease, Mr. Victor said.
        Mr. Junkins, who grew up in the tiny town of Montrose, Iowa, and married a high school classmate, joined Texas Instruments in 1959. He was a soft-spoken, hard-working engineer who rose steadily up the ranks at the company and whose horizons broadened as he went, business associates and friends said.
        As the company's computer-chip business was battered by Japanese competition  during the 1980's, Mr. Junkins had to learn foreign business methods and cultures. He traveled widely, particularly in Asia.
        In recent years, Mr. Junkins abandoned his preference for keeping a low profile and became an outspoken proponent of free trade policies.
        At the Business Roundtable, which is made up of the chief executives of the nation's largest corporations, Mr. Junkins was chairman of a trade and investment task force. He helped organize a lobbying drive by corporations to secure Congressional approval in 1993 of the North American Free Trade Agreement which eased trade barriers between the United States and Mexico.
        Mr. Junkins also served as chairman of the Alliance for GATT Now, a business  coalition formed in 1994 to support the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which Congress ratified in 1994.
        Born on Dec. 9, 1937, Mr. Junkins was the eldest of four children. His father, Ralph, owned the Junkins Garage in Montrose, a town with fewer than 700  people. In his summers as a boy, Mr. Junkins helped his father at the garage by  fixing tires, polishing cars and doing other chores.
        "I got most of who I am from my dad," Mr. Junkins said in a 1993 interview with The Dallas Morning News, describing his father as "quiet, hard-working, solid."
        In high school, Mr. Junkins played on the varsity baseball and basketball teams, played clarinet in the band, and was a Boy Scout. A solid student, he graduated No. 2 in his class. A few years later, he married the valedictorian, Marilyn Jo Schevers.
        Mr. Junkins attended Iowa State University, where he earned a degree in electrical engineering. After he graduated in 1959, he looked for a job in the emerging field of solid-state electronics. He showed up at a Texas Instruments' defense plant in Dallas, asking for a job in manufacturing. He was  given a job as a dispatcher, ferrying a parts cart around the plant.
        Yet with his aptitude and engineering background, Mr. Junkins soon began to advance. He moved up through a series of jobs in the company's defense business  to head its military contracting operations from 1975 to 1981. Later, he was given broader management responsibilities, and in 1985, he was tapped to be president and chief executive officer. In 1988, he was made chairman as well.
        By the mid-1980's, Texas Instruments' semiconductor business was struggling.  The company was a major producer of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips, which temporarily store data in personal computers. And the memory-chip business was a focus of Japan's technology investment surge.
        Under the assault, most other major semiconductor makers, like Intel and Motorola, decided to pull out of the memory-chip market and focus on other parts of the semiconductor industry. But Texas Instruments stayed in the memory market, overhauled its operations and eventually recovered.
        Last year, the company's semiconductor sales reached $7.8 billion, up from $2.7 billion in 1990.
        "Texas Instruments was in real trouble when Jerry Junkins took the helm," said G. Dan Hutcheson, president of VLSI Research, a technology research company. "He reinvented Texas Instruments to become a global competitor in semiconductors again."
        Industry analysts said that Mr. Junkins had installed a solid management team beneath him, so his death should have little immediate effect on the company's fortunes.
        In addition to his wife, who is known as Sally, Mr. Junkins is survived by two daughters, Kirsten Kerrigan and Karen Junkins, both of Dallas.
      