
        Jennings Lang, a former vice president of Universal Studios and a Hollywood producer known for "Airport" and other disaster films, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Palm Desert, Calif., one day after his 81st birthday.
        As studio executive or producer, Mr. Lang was at least partly responsible for the blockbuster success of "Airport" (1970) and three sequels, "Airport 1975," "Airport '77" and "The Concorde: Airport '79." The films grossed 10 times their  cost. An expert in escapist entertainment, he also conceived the Sensurround sound system used in the movie "Earthquake." As executive vice president of Universal Television, he was an early producer of feature movies made directly for television.
        Before he became a producer, Mr. Lang was a talent agent representing Joan Bennett, among other performers. In 1951, in a scandalous Hollywood episode, Walter Wanger, Ms. Bennett's husband and a leading producer, accused Mr. Lang of alienating his wife's affections and shot the agent in the groin. The shooting took place in a parking lot in Los Angeles.
        Both Mr. Lang and Ms. Bennett denied the accusation. Mr. Lang said that Mr. Wanger "misconstrued what was solely a business relationship." The agent recovered from the wound. Mr. Wanger was indicted for assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill. He pleaded guilty to a reduced charge and was sentenced to 100 days at a minimum security farm.
        Mr. Lang, while an executive at Universal, had a close association with Clint Eastwood, working with him on "Coogan's Bluff," "Play Misty for Me," "High Plains Drifter" and "The Eiger Sanction." Other films made under his aegis included "Winning," "Slaughterhouse Five," "The Great Waldo Pepper" and "The Front Page." He also produced the remake of Damon Runyon's "Little Miss Marker"  (starring Walter Matthau and Julie Andrews).
        Mr. Lang was born in New York City and returned there in 1977 on location with the movie "Nunzio." In 1979, after more than 40 years as an agent and producer, Mr. Lang made his screen debut in Albert Brooks's "Real Life," playing a hot-tempered studio head who is heard on a telephone but not seen. Paid $173.34 for his day's work, he kept the check as a souvenir, framing it on the wall of his office. He retired in 1983 after suffering a stroke.
        Before moving to the nursing home, he lived in Beverly Hills. He is survived  by his wife, Monica Lewis, a singer and actress; a son, Rocky, a film director in Los Angeles; two sons from a previous marriage, Robert and Michael, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      