
        Jack Weston, the chubby, bejowled actor who elevated anguish to a comic art in a 40-year career on television, in the movies and on Broadway, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
        He was 71 and had had lymphoma for six years, his wife said.
        In a career in which he appeared in hundreds of television productions, two  dozen movies and another two dozen Broadway plays, Mr. Weston became such a recognizable figure and played so many distinctive roles with such elan that no  one doubted him when he bragged -- or complained -- that he never got a part from an agent.
        He didn't have to. Mr. Weston was a master at bumping into the right people at the right time. At restaurants, parties or on the street he was forever running into producers, directors and playwrights whose eyes would inevitably light up as they told him to be sure to call them the very next day.
        Mr. Weston, a shy man who never trusted his own luck, would just as inevitably dismiss the overture as routine social schtick and not make the call. Sure enough, the producers would call him and Mr. Weston would be hired for yet  another role that would stick in some other producer's mind the next time Mr. Weston bumped into him.
        That, more or less, is how Woody Allen came to hire Mr. Weston for his acclaimed role as a sleazy personal manager in "The Floating Lightbulb," which led to a Tony nomination for Mr. Weston in 1981.
        And that is how he got his even more acclaimed role in "The Four Seasons," the 1981 movie with Alan Alda, Carol Burnett and Rita Moreno that led to a spinoff television series starring Mr. Weston in 1984.
        He had appeared in his share of Broadway hits, including "California Suite" and "The Ritz" in 1976, but for Mr. Weston, who had survived for years on comic  schtick, the role of a cantankerous dentist with depth marked a transition point in his career. From then on he would only take roles with substance, including parts in Shakespeare's "Measure for Measure" and Paddy Chayevsky's "The Tenth Man," at Lincoln Center in 1989.
        Like many of the characters he played, Mr. Weston was the quintessential New  Yorker, which is to say he was born in Cleveland and lived in Los Angeles for 18 years, hating every minute of it he wasn't actually in front of the camera.
        "Every afternoon at 3 something hits this town," he said during an interview  in Los Angles in 1984. "It's called flash boredom. If you're an actor and not working and you don't play tennis or golf, you can go stark, raving mad. I know. I lived here for 18 years."
        Mr. Weston, who said he hated Cleveland, too -- until he spent two years as an Army machine-gunner in Italy in World War II, got his first break at birth. His father, a shoemaker, was a surprisingly understanding man.
        When one of his son's teachers told him that Jack, a failing student and the  class clown, had an aptitude for acting, rather than being aghast his father actually enrolled him in classes at the Cleveland Playhouse, a storied nurturing ground for young talent, including Paul Newman.
        After his Army service, Mr. Weston came to New York to study at the American  Theater Wing along with such future stars as Lee Marvin, Rod Steiger and Jack Klugman.
        Although he did his share of menial work, including a job as an elevator operator that he got because he was the first applicant who fit the suit, Mr. Weston found ready work in the theater, including a part in "South Pacific," and even more on television, where he became a regular during the 1950's.
        His Hollywood years began on a whim in the spring of 1958 when he and his first wife, Marjorie Redmond, abruptly quit their parts in the Broadway hit "Bells Are Ringing," and struck out for Los Angeles in a vintage Volkswagen, fully expecting to return to New York in the fall.
        Then the car broke down and the couple were stranded for what turned out to be an 18-year stay as Mr. Weston appeared almost constantly on television and his wife did even better: a 10-year stint as the Cool Whip lady, a commercial gig, Mr. Weston once noted, that required her to work five days a year and paid  her six figures.
        In much of his early work, Mr. Weston was the villain, most memorably as a man who terrorizes Audrey Hepburn in the 1967 cult classic "Wait Until Dark," but movies like "Cactus Flower" and "Please Don't Eat the Daisies" led him to comedy.
        His standing as a character actor took some of the edge off the fact that people were forever recognizing Mr. Weston and never knowing his name.
        Mr. Weston was only slightly exaggerating when he claimed that he was everything about his role in "The Four Seasons" except a dentist. "I'm a hypochondriac," he said. "I'm paranoid. I'm a nervous wreck. Why are those people talking about me?"
        Perhaps because they had seen him in any number of roles they will never forget.
        Mr. Weston, who was divorced from Miss Redmond, is survived by his wife, Laurie Gilkes; a stepdaughter, Amy Gilkes of Manhattan, and a brother, Sam, of
        Los Angeles.
      