
        Tim Gullikson, the effervescent tennis coach who helped transform Pete Sampras from an introverted prodigy to a genuine candidate to become the greatest champion to play the sport, died yesterday. He was 44. Inoperable brain cancer had been diagnosed in Gullikson in January 1995. His family said he died  at home in Wheaton, Ill.
        His alliance with Sampras, the No. 1-ranked male player in the world and the  defending champion of Wimbledon and the United States Open, was the culmination  of a career that began in relative obscurity.
        Today, I lost a dear friend and a coach," Sampras said in a statement on Friday from his home in Tampa, Fla. "But we all lost a special person. My prayers are with his wife, Rosemary, and his two children, Erik and Megan."
        Timothy Edward Gullikson was born on Sept. 8, 1951, in La Crosse, Wis., just  minutes after his identical twin brother, Tom. They graduated from Northern Illinois University, with Tim earning a degree in physical education. Gullikson  at first supported himself in his own quest to become a pro player by giving tennis lessons wherever he could find takers.
        Because Tim and Tom were close on and off the court, and had played doubles together since their junior tennis days, the uninitiated could not distinguish between the two even though Tom is left-handed and Tim was right-handed.
        As professional players, the two won 10 doubles titles together and were 1983 finalists at Wimbledon. The Gulliksons were also a top team on senior circuits until last year.
        Tim was considered the better singles player. He was the pro circuit's newcomer of the year in 1977, and in 1979 he reached Wimbledon's quarterfinals.  He reached a career-best ranking of 18th in 1978, and in all won 4 singles and 16 doubles titles.
        After giving up playing full time in the mid-1980's, Gullikson coached Aaron  Krickstein, Mary Joe Fernandez and Martina Navratilova, who had already established herself as one of the best players in history.
        Sampras was ranked sixth in the world and had not been able to duplicate his  1990 United States Open championship when he hired Gullikson as his full-time coach in 1992. Sampras had intended to hire Tom Gullikson, but Tom was unable to coordinate that job with his responsibilities as captain of the Davis Cup and Olympic teams.
        Sampras settled on Tim. Certainly, Sampras represented a dream student for Gullikson, who is credited with providing the American with the passion for competition and the knack for strategic playmaking necessary for him to make the leap to the top of his profession.
        And a year after hiring Tim, Sampras, then just 21, attained the No. 1 ranking for the first time. He won the first of his three consecutive Wimbledon  titles in July 1993; in all, he captured six Grand Slam tournaments after joining Gullikson.
        "Coaching Pete is probably a little like being a basketball coach and getting a fantastic pure shooter like Jerry West; the trick is to teach the guy when he  should take the 3-point shot and when he shouldn't," said Gullikson, who taught  Sampras stroke strategy, but did not tinker with his inimitable serve.
        Gullikson had suffered a series of strokes while touring with Sampras in Europe in the autumn of 1994, but the malady was mistakenly traced to a congenital heart problem after German neurologists discovered a blood clot in his brain in December. Gullikson insisted on accompanying Sampras to Australia in January 1995 to help him defend his Grand Slam title there but collapsed during a practice session.
        After tests at a Melbourne hospital proved inconclusive, Gullikson was sent home to Chicago for further testing, and the worried Sampras cried during a quarterfinal comeback against Jim Courier. Sampras dedicated that event, where he was runner-up to Andre Agassi, and all future events to his "great good friend" and mentor, Gullikson.
        Although he was unable to rejoin Sampras on the circuit, Gullikson coached by telephone while leaving the day-to-day training to Paul Annacone, a former pro and mutual friend. Sampras and Tom Gullikson arranged to have Tim make a cameo appearance in the coaching chair during the United States Davis Cup team's semifinal victory against Sweden at Las Vegas, Nev., in September 1994. That public appearance was his last as Sampras's coach.
        In addition to Tom Gullikson, his wife, his 13-year-old son and his 9-year-old daughter, he is survived by his mother, Joyce Gullikson Olson, another brother, Gary, and a sister, SueEllen Levinger.
      