
        William E. Colby, who as Director of Central Intelligence chose to disclose some of the nation's darkest secrets to save the spy service he loved, drowned on April 27 in a tributary of the Potomac River in Maryland. He was 76 and lived in the Georgetown section of Washington.
        The Charles County Sheriff's office said Mr. Colby's body was found today, nine days after he set out for a solo canoe trip from his weekend home in Rock Point, Md., not far from where his canoe washed up on the shore of the Wicomico  River about a quarter-mile from his house.
        Mr. Colby spent most of his adult life as a cold warrior in his country's clandestine service, "a soldier-priest," as a colleague called him, on a covert  crusade. He perfected the look of an invisible man: gray suits, graying hair, glasses with translucent frames the color of pale white skin. More than one interlocutor noted that when asked a question he did not care to answer, he would tilt back his head so light reflected off the lenses of his glasses, turning his eyes into blank white disks.
        But as the nation's chief spy, he helped reveal the Central Intelligence Agency's hidden history and confessed to its sins. In his eyes and in the eyes of many historians, he kept the agency from destroying itself or being destroyed by outsiders. And when the cold war was over, he proposed beating swords into plowshares, arguing that half of the billions for the Pentagon should go to education, economic competitiveness and programs for the poor.
        This transformation began on April 27, 1973, 12 days before Mr. Colby learned that President Richard M. Nixon, then deeply enmeshed in the Watergate scandal,  was about to nominate him as Director of Central Intelligence.
        That day, the Federal judge at the trial of Daniel Ellsberg, a former Defense Department official charged with espionage after the Pentagon Papers, a secret history of the Vietnam War, were provided to The New York Times, disclosed that  the office of Mr. Ellsberg's psychiatrist had been burglarized by White House operatives -- with technical assistance from the C.I.A.
        "This was a shocker," Mr. Colby recounted in his 1978 memoir, "Honorable Men" (Simon & Schuster). His immediate predecessor, James R. Schlesinger, had vowed to tear the agency apart if necessary to "find out if there were questionable or illegal activities hidden in the secret recesses of our clandestine past that we didn't know about and that might explode at any time under our feet."
        Many such land mines existed, but no one knew how many, or how explosive they were. Mr. Schlesinger ordered all agency employees and veterans who knew about such activities to report them -- and then departed to become Defense Secretary.
        Mr. Colby, the agency's director of covert operations, was left with a task that violated every precept of a secret agency: compiling a list of the deepest  secrets. And the list went on and on, growing to 693 single-spaced pages. The agency had violated its charter by spying on Americans, tapping their telephones, reading their tax returns and opening their mail. It had plotted to  assassinate Fidel Castro and other foreign leaders. It had conducted LSD experiments on unwitting human guinea pigs.
        The agency's clandestine officers called the list "the family jewels," or "the skeletons." It stayed secret -- for a while.
        Mr. Colby's confirmation hearings that summer were excruciating, in part because of his past in Vietnam. From 1968 to 1971, under the aegis of the Agency for International Development, Mr. Colby had run programs that included Operation Phoenix. Conceived by the White House and supported by the C.I.A., that program sought to expose Vietcong agents working in South Vietnam.
        Phoenix killed 20,587 Vietnamese. Mr. Colby told Congress in 1971 that these  deaths included "illegal killing." As the confirmation hearings convened in July 1973, antiwar protesters plastered Washington with wanted posters emblazoned with Mr. Colby's face, a skull and crossbones and the ace of spades, a symbol of death, his home telephone, which he insisted remain listed, rang with angry calls throughout the night.
        After the hearings, conducted largely in private sessions, Mr. Colby was confirmed as the nation's 10th Director of Central Intelligence. Before the vote, he decided to share the family jewels with a few select members of Congress. That was how the C.I.A. did business with the legislative branch in those days.
        The secrets did not keep. In December 1974, The New York Times reported that  the agency had spied on Americans, and Mr. Colby was a source for the article. Now the pressure for a full Congressional investigation grew irresistible. Mr. Colby cooperated, and the skeletons began tumbling out of the closet.
        Senior agency officers called him a traitor. Some hinted that he was a Soviet agent. Those hints grew darker in January 1975, after Mr. Colby dismissed James  J. Angleton, for 20 years the agency's chief of counterintelligence. Obsessed with a search for a Soviet spy inside the agency, Mr. Angleton had developed ornate theories of Soviet plots to subvert the United States. Few outsiders understood them -- "possibly because Angleton's explanations were impossible to  follow, or possibly because the evidence just didn't add up," Mr. Colby wrote in his memoir.
        Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence from 1991 to 1993, recalled that 1975 was the worst year in the agency's history. Mr. Colby spent the year testifying before Congressional committees, and the essence of his testimony became public: the assassination plots, the coups and the spying on Americans. Mr. Colby "had no choice in 1975 but to cooperate," but the agency's  pride, "however based on a fiction, took a blow from which we never recovered,"  Mr. Gates recounts in his just-published memoir, "From the Shadows," (Simon and  Schuster).
        To save the agency, Mr. Colby believed, he had to confess to its sins. He felt it crucial to educate Congress, the press and the public about the agency.  "The agency's survival," he wrote in his memoirs, "could only come from understanding, not hostility, built on knowledge, not faith."
        Even after his dismissal as Director of Central Intelligence in November 1975 by President Gerald R. Ford, who believed that Mr. Colby had been too forthcoming, Mr. Colby insisted that he had done the right thing by throwing the cloak off the cloak-and-dagger business.
        The end result of his decision was a permanent system of Congressional oversight of the agency -- and a public understanding that the C.I.A. was a tool of Presidential power, not a rogue elephant. When it trampled people, the blame  was on the elephant rider: the President of the United States.
        By demanding that understanding, Mr. Colby was "playing a very heavy card, trumping the White House by bringing the American people into the secret world," John Ranelagh wrote in his history of the intelligence service, "The Agency" (Simon & Schuster, 1986). But Mr. Colby "got what he wanted: no President could  put the C.I.A. in a bottle and throw it away."
        His calm in this crisis -- his enemies called it cold-bloodedness -- was composed in equal parts of his grounding in espionage, the military and the Roman Catholic Church. He thought spying for one's country an honorable task, he followed legitimate orders to the hilt and his public confessions took the form  of atonement and redemption.
        William Egan Colby was born on Jan. 4, 1920, in St. Paul, the son of Elbridge and Margaret Egan Colby. His father, a sensitive nonconformist who wrote and taught literature, became a career Army officer. His family moved constantly, living everywhere from Tientsin, China, to Burlington, Vt.
        He enrolled in Princeton University in 1937 and graduated in 1940 with a liberal education and outlook, a Phi Beta Kappa key, R.O.T.C. experience and a deep antipathy to Fascism and Communism. He entered Columbia Law School, but left to join the Army and serve in World War II. He cheated on an eye examination to become a paratrooper, unwittingly taking a path that would lead him into the clandestine world.
        In 1943, answering a call for officers who could speak fluent French, he became a member of the Office of Strategic Services, the wartime American espionage agency.
        In 1944, he parachuted behind German lines to link up with a French resistance group. In 1945, he commanded a squad of saboteurs who blew up German  rail lines in the snows of northern Norway. For these missions, he earned the Silver Star and the French Croix de Guerre.
        After the war, he returned to Columbia and received a law degree in 1947. He  then joined the Manhattan law firm then known as Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Lombard, run by the founder of the Office of Strategic Services, William J. Donovan. But the law, frankly, bored him, and he joined the fledgling C.I.A. in  1950.
        Posing as a diplomat, Mr. Colby served in Stockholm from 1951 to 1953; in Rome from 1953 to 1958; and, fatefully, as the C.I.A.'s station chief in Saigon  from 1959 to 1962. He was responsible for all the agency's covert operations in  Asia from 1962 to 1967, as the United States went to war in Vietnam. He returned for some of the worst years of the war there, in the doomed cause of winning the hearts and minds of the people.
        Mr. Colby left Saigon and returned to Washington in 1971, in part to care for his eldest daughter, Catherine, who was slowly dying of anorexia nervosa. At headquarters, he took on desk jobs that led two years later to the directorship.
        In retirement, Mr. Colby lectured, practiced law and worked as a risk consultant to clients that included New York investment banks. In the 1980's, he began speaking out against the nuclear arms race. He argued, along with old hawks like former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, for deep cuts in nuclear weapons stockpiles. Those cuts are slowly becoming a reality in the 1990's. And  he founded the American Commitee for a Free Vietnam, which sought to strengthen  human rights and democracy in Vietnam.
        In recent months, Mr. Colby became senior editor of Strategic Weekly Briefings, a faxed newsletter, and embarked on a quintessential post-cold-war endeavor: marketing a computer CD-ROM game about espionage and counter-terrorism he created with Oleg Kalugin, a former top Soviet intelligence officer.
        Mr. Colby's marriage to the former Barbara Heinzen ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Sally Shelton-Colby, an assistant administrator for global programs at the Agency for International Development and a former Ambassador to  Grenada, Barbados and eight other eastern Caribbean countries; his children from his first marriage, Jonathan, Carl, Paul and Christine, and six grandchildren.
      