
        Boleslavs Maikovskis, who said he was just following orders when he ordered the arrests that led to the mass execution of 200 Latvian villagers in World War II, died in Munster, Germany, on April 18, two years after his trial there for mass murder was suspended because of his declining health.
        He was 92 and had lived in Mineola, L.I., for 36 years before fleeing to Germany in 1987 to avoid deportation to the Soviet Union. The cause was a heart  attack, a friend, Dr. Aurelijs Bogdanovics, said.
        When Mr. Maikovskis (pronounced my-KOFF-skiss) applied for admission to the  United States in 1950, there seemed no reason to keep him out. A native of Latvia, he was one of millions of people displaced by the war and, in his case,  by the Soviet takeover of Eastern Europe.
        Mr. Maikovskis, who had made his way to Austria after the war, described himself as a fierce anti-Communist who had worked as a bookkeeper during the German occupation of his country.
        Settling in Mineola, he found work as a carpenter, tended his garden at his Grant Avenue home, was active in Latvian organizations and went to church every  morning. "He was a good man," Dr. Bogdanovics said yesterday. "He could never have done the things they said he did."
        Mr. Maikovskis's quiet, orderly life began to unravel in 1965 when a Soviet court in Latvia found him guilty of murder and sentenced him to death. Perhaps as much to embarrass the United States as to bring a war criminal to justice, the Soviet Union, which had no extradition treaty with the United States, demanded his extradition, anyway.
        The United States refused, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service began an investigation whose hearings, court actions and appeals lasted more than 20 years.
        During that time, Mr. Maikovskis continued his activities in Latvian organizations and served on a subcommittee of the Committee to Re-elect the President during Richard M. Nixon's 1972 campaign.
        Although the Soviet Union supplied evidence it had assembled against him, and American investigators made videotaped depositions of witnesses against him, all the evidence used to deport Mr. Maikovskis came from his own mouth.
        In January 1966, in the first of five sworn statements, Mr. Maikovskis stuck  to his initial claim that he had been a bookkeeper. But the next month, he admitted he had once served as a temporary "keeper of order," a job, he suggested, that ranked below that of a school crossing guard and did not involve arresting people, let alone ordering arrests.
        By 1975, he was no longer denying he had been a police officer during the Nazi occupation, and by the time of a deportation hearing in 1981, he said he had been the chief of police for the second precinct of Rezekne from 1941 until  the Germans began their retreat in 1944. He also said that after several Latvian policemen were shot to death in the village of Audrini by Soviet partisans in 1941, he ordered the arrest of every man, woman and child in the village, from 200 to 300 people, under orders from his police superior.
        Also under orders, he said, he ordered every house to be burned to the ground. But he said he had nothing to do with the public execution of 30 villagers in the Rezekne town square and the slaughter of the rest in a nearby woods. He said he was in church during the public execution.
        The American courts did not rule on the degree of his complicity in the villagers' deaths but ruled that lying about his wartime job warranted his deportation.
        While his case was pending, Mr. Maikovskis secretly persuaded a German consul to grant him a visa, and he fled to Germany in 1987.
        Mr. Maikovskis was charged with mass murder in Germany, which had jurisdiction over Latvia at the time of the executions. But his trial, which began in 1988, proceeded slowly. In February 1994, the court ruled he was too frail to continue.
        Mr. Maikovskis is survived by his wife, Janina.
      