
        Don McNeill, the cheerful host who welcomed millions of radio listeners across the United States and Canada to a new day for more than 35 years as the creator and host of "Don McNeill's Breakfast Club," died yesterday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. Mr. McNeill, who lived in Winnetka, Ill., was 88.
        Five times a week, from June 23, 1933, until Dec. 27, 1968, the genial Mr. McNeill presided over a variety show that mixed a generous helping of corny humor with spontaneous interviews, songs, celebrity guests, the inspirational Moment of Silent Prayer, skits with the gossipy spinster Aunt Fanny, the nostalgic Memory Time and the March Around the Breakfast Table. The show's four  15-minute segments were divided into "calls to breakfast."
        Good morning, Breakfast Clubbers," Mr. McNeill would say, and from coast to coast from 8 to 9 A.M. central, mountain and Pacific time and from 9 to 10 A.M.  in the East, loyal listeners to more than 300 stations during the program's heyday in the 1940's readied themselves for an infusion of the high spirits broadcast first on NBC and then on ABC.
        The comedian Fred Allen, one of the stalwarts of radio's golden age, assessed Mr. McNeill by saying: "He's a big, friendly fellow whose good nature pours through the microphone, and listeners react in the same way anyone reacts meeting him in person. He and the other early settlers of radio established an intimacy that kept their audiences permanently loyal."
        In a typical serving of humor, Mr. McNeill would tell his audience, "Courtship makes a man spoon, but marriage makes him fork over."
        Sam Cowling, a comic fixture on the show, would deliver "Fact and Fiction From Sam's Almanac." Sample: "The distance from the head of a fox to its tail is a fur piece."
        Aunt Fanny (played by Fran Allison of "Kukla, Fran and Ollie" fame) would tell tales about fictional neighbors like Bert and Bertie Beerbower, the Smelsers and Ott Ort.
        "Of course we're corny," Mr. McNeill said in a 1950 interview. "And why not?  Probably most American wit and humor could be called that. As for sentiment, nobody should be ashamed of it. There are too many poker faces in the world today."
        Prayer Time opened with Mr. McNeill intoning: "Each in his own words, each in his own way, for a world united in peace -- bow your heads -- and pray."
        The talent included entertainers like Patti Page, Johnny Desmond and Toots &  Chickie, an act that later achieved fame as Fibber McGee and Molly.
        There were celebrity guests like Joe Louis, Thomas Hart Benton, Jane Russell  and Groucho Marx, who said: "I don't see how McNeill does it. As a matter of fact, I don't think McNeill does it. I think he stays home and sleeps all morning. I think that's really George Jessel up there, putting on an Ohio accent."
        But indeed it was Mr. McNeill, capitalizing on the chance he was given in the summer of 1933, when he was appointed master of ceremonies of "The Pepper Pot,"  a sponsorless show with an anemic listenership.
        He changed the name to "Breakfast Club" and created the four calls to breakfast. But the first turning point came when his request for permission to ad lib was granted, mainly because his supervisors figured no one was listening  anyway.
        Fan mail, then almost the only way to measure a program's popularity, began to increase. In 1936, when Mr. McNeill decided to respond to requests by admitting an audience to his broadcasts, the turnout impressed his employers. By 1941, sponsors had joined the bandwagon, spending $4 million a year to pay for broadcast time and talent.
        Don McNeill was born Dec. 23, 1907 in Galena, Ill., and grew up mainly in Sheboygan, Wis. He was enrolled in journalism school at Marquette University in Wisconsin, planning to become a newspaper editorial cartoonist, when his father's furniture factory failed in 1927. Mr. McNeill found a $15-a-week job at a Milwaukee radio station, worked at The Milwaukee Sentinel and graduated from Marquette in 1930 with a bachelor of philosophy degree.
        He worked at radio stations in Louisville and San Francisco before he got his chance on "The Pepper Pot" for $50 a week. By 1950, his contract called for $100,000 a year.
        For several years in the 1950's, "Breakfast Club" was was also on television, but in 1968, afflicted with a declining audience and fewer sponsors, and down to 224 radio stations, the show went off the air. Afterward, Mr. McNeill taught communication arts classes at Marquette and Notre Dame from 1970 to 1972, represented the Deltona Corporation, Florida land developers, from 1970 to 1980, and served as a director of the Sears Foundation and on the advisory boards of Notre Dame, Marquette and Loyola University of Chicago.
        He is survived by three sons, Thomas B. and Robert P., of Winnetka, and the Rev. Donald, of South Bend, Ind.; a sister, Agnes Donohue of Evanston, Ill., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      