
        Gen. Jean Crepin, a retired French Army officer who oversaw the development of the Exocet missiles, which played a key role in the war in the Falklands, died on Saturday in the French department of Seine-et-Marne, near Paris, where he lived. He was 87.
        General Crepin, who was known for his loyalty to Charles de Gaulle in World  War II, started out as an artillery lieutenant in 1930, attained the five-star rank of general d'armee in 1961 and retired from active service in 1967.
        His career included service during the Liberation of Paris from the Germans in 1944. He was also commander of French forces in Algeria in 1960 and 1961 and  in Germany from 1961 to 1963.
        The French newspaper Le Monde recalled him as "gruff, reserved, authoritarian, but esteemed by his peers."
        In 1967 de Gaulle, as France's President, asked him to become the president of Nord Aviation, a large, state-owned concern manufacturing planes and tactical missiles. He went on to hold important positions at another state-owned industrial concern, now known as Aerospatiale, from 1970 to 1975.
        As an armaments-industry executive, General Crepin became regarded, as Le Monde put it, as "the designer of France's missiles." Another French newspaper,  Le Figaro, said in its obituary that General Crepin had "given the impetus" to the development of the Exocet family of missiles and other weaponry.
        In the war in the Falklands in 1982, Argentine warplanes wielded Exocet missiles with lethal accuracy against British Navy vessels. Exocets were also a  featured weapon in the "tanker war" phase of the 1980-88 war between Iran and Iraq.
        The son of an industrialist, Jean Crepin was born in Barnaville, a village near Amiens in northern France. He attended secondary schools in Amiens and Paris and graduated from the Polytechnique school for artillery officers and engineers.
        His military career took him first to China and then to Cameroun, in West Africa, where in 1940, as a captain, he rallied to de Gaulle's Free French Forces. He saw World War II action in Libya, Tunisia, France and Germany. And he was the colonel commanding the artillery of the Free French Second Armored Division in 1944 when that division freed Paris. He also saw action later in the war, notably at Strasbourg and Berchtesgaden.
        General Crepin served in Vietnam in the mid 1940's during that country's fight against French rule, and in Algeria in the late 1950's and early 1960's, when it was racked by a pro-independence revolt and by dissidence among French settlers and French military personnel there.
        De Gaulle picked him in 1960 to replace General Jacques Massu in the key post as the French commander in Algiers. De Gaulle dismissed General Massu in a crackdown against dissent in the military hierarchy in Algeria, and by the time  the shake-up was complete, General Crepin was commander for all of Algeria.
        From there, he went on to command French forces in Germany. From 1963 to 1966, he held a high NATO command in central Europe.
        He was awarded various French decorations, as well United States medals, including the Silver Star .
        He was predeceased by his wife, the former Simone Granday. They had two daughters, Francoise van der Plaetsen and Bernadette Menahem.
      