
        Joseph Kallinger, a Philadelphia cobbler-turned-killer who terrorized New Jersey suburbs two decades ago and made his own lawyer envision a shadowland where illness and evil live side by side, has died in a Pennsylvania prison. He  was 59.
        The authorities at the State Correctional Institute at Cresson said that Mr.  Kallinger died on March 26 after suffering a seizure and that his death was announced soon afterward but initially attracted little notice.
        Mr. Kallinger had behaved bizarrely for much of his 20 years in prison and for the last 5 years had been in solitary confinement under a suicide watch. Before being held at Cresson, he had spent many years at Farview State Hospital  in Pennsylvania.
        On Jan. 8, 1975, as a jury would later conclude, Mr. Kallinger and his son Michael, then 13, gained entrance to a house in Leonia, N.J., by posing as salesmen. For several hours, they beat, robbed and terrorized eight people inside.
        One of the eight, a 21-year-old nurse named Maria Fasching, who had stopped at the house to aid an elderly neighbor and friend, was taken to the basement, where her throat was cut and she died.
        Almost as shocking as the crime's savagery was the participation of the boy under his father's guidance, not just in Leonia but in similar break-ins in nearby Dumont as well as in Lindenwold, a Camden suburb, and in Baltimore and Harrisburg, Pa.
        "People in the suburbs were put on notice that they had to keep their doors locked," Mr. Kallinger's lawyer, Paul Giblin, recalled in a telephone interview  on Wednesday. "I have always felt great sympathy for the victims of his crimes -- not just Maria Fasching but all the others as well."
        The crimes, which began on Nov. 22, 1974, and ended with the slaying of Ms. Fasching, had a pattern: women were tied up, sometimes stripped and sexually abused, and the man and the boy would roam through the house looking for valuables -- about $20,000 in cash and jewelry, for example, was taken from four women bound and abused in Harrisburg after their bridge game was interrupted.
        A blood-stained shirt left by one of the intruders in Leonia was traced by a  laundry mark to Mr. Kallinger, who lived with his family in a cramped apartment  above his shoe repair shop in Philadelphia. The father and son were arrested there.
        It was soon learned that Mr. Kallinger had spent several months in prison in  1972 for abusing his children. Three of his six children accused their father of abuse, but they later recanted. Not long before the 1974-75 string of crimes began, Mr. Kallinger's son Joseph Jr., 14, who had been one of his father's accusers, was found dead in the rubble of an old building in Philadelphia. Mr. Kallinger was eventually convicted of murdering Joseph as well as a 9-year-old Philadelphia boy.
        When Mr. Kallinger came to trial in 1976 for the killing of Ms. Fasching, his lawyer tried for a verdict of not guilty by reason of insanity. "I never wanted  him to be acquitted," Mr. Giblin recalled. "I wanted him in a mental institution for the rest of his life."
        Asked whether he thought his client was evil or sick, or both, Mr. Giblin said: "He was sick. He was an evil man, and the evilness was a manifestation of  the illness."
        Mr. Kallinger, who endured abuse as an adopted child, was pronounced paranoid and schizophrenic by psychiatrists after his capture. During his New Jersey trial, he sometimes moaned and babbled incoherently.
        Nevertheless, the jury concluded that he had known right from wrong and convicted him of murder. In a sense, Mr. Kallinger never served a day in prison  for killing Ms. Fasching. The life sentence he received for the murder was to begin after he finished a term of 30 to 80 years for the Pennsylvania robberies. In recent years, Mr. Kallinger sometimes expressed remorse, refused to eat and attempted suicide.
        His son Michael was adjudged a juvenile delinquent and confined for a time in
        Pennsylvania and is believed to have changed his name. His whereabouts, and those of what remains of the Kallinger family, are not known.
      