
        Serge Chermayeff, a retired architect and former head of the architecture department at Harvard and Yale Universities, died on Wednesday at his home in Wellfleet, Mass., where he had lived for the last 55 years. He was 95.
        Mr. Chermayeff, born in the Caucasus, received his education in England, where he also did most of his early work. He was associated with a series of architectural firms and started the academic side of his career on the faculty of the European Mediterranean Academy in Cavaliere, France, in the early 1930's.
        He came to the United States in 1939 and was in private practice while teaching at the San Francisco Art Institute and Brooklyn College, where he was chairman of the department of design from 1942 to 1946. He was later on the faculty of the Illinois Institute of Technology and the Massachusetts Institute  of Technology.
        His association with Harvard started in 1953, as head of the department of architecture, a position he held for nine years. He filled the same post at Yale from 1962 until his retirement in 1970.
        Among his early work noted by his peers was the seaside Bexhill Pavilion in England, which was restored last year. In California he designed the Clarence Mayhew House in Oakland and the elegant, wood-framed Horn house in Marin County.
        He was the author, with C. Alexander, of "Community and Privacy: Toward a New Architecture of Humanism" (1963) and, with Alexander Tzonis, of "Shape of Community: Realization of Human Potential" (1971).
        He was a co-founder of the American Society of Planners and Architects. At the recommendation of Walter Gropius, he also served as president of the Chicago Institute of Design.
        Mr. Chermayeff is survived by his wife, Barbara Mailand May Chermayeff; two sons, Peter, of Cambridge, Mass., and Ivan, of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 24, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on May 10 about Serge Chermayeff, former head of the Harvard and  Yale architecture departments, attributed the design of the Bexhill Pavilion in  England incompletely. It was a joint effort by Mr. Chermayeff and Erich Mendelsohn, who shared an architectural practice in London in the 1930's. A reader's letter dated May 10, pointing out the error, was lost, and another letter, dated June 18, was delayed in routing at The Times.
      