
        Celedonio Romero, who founded the Romeros guitar quartet with his sons, Pepe, Celin and Angel, died on Wednesday at Mercy Hospital in San Diego.
        He was 83 and lived in Del Mar, Calif.
        Mr. Romero was best known for his work in the quartet, which helped make ensemble guitar music popular and commissioned many works. But he was also an elegant soloist and made several recordings. He maintained a style that could seem old-fashioned when compared to the crisp, rhythmically precise playing of many younger guitarists, including his sons, yet was widely admired for its warmth of tone and defiantly Romantic rhythmic flexibility.
        Mr. Romero was born in Malaga, Spain, and studied guitar there and in Madrid. His concert career began in 1936 and was limited to Spain for more than 20 years because the regime of Francisco Franco would not allow Mr. Romero to leave the country. When he did leave, in 1958, he immigrated to the United States with his wife, Angelita, and three sons, who were then teen-agers and were already performing as guitarists.
        Mr. Romero formed the family quartet in 1960 and led it in its first public concert in 1961. Because there was no repertory for guitar quartet, the Romeros  transcribed chamber works by the Baroque masters and commissioned new works. These included concertos for two, three and four guitars from the Spanish composers Joaqin Rodrigo and Federico Moreno Torroba and the American composer Morton Gould. Sometimes they broadened the program to include works in which Mrs. Romero played the castanets, or to include some of the Romeros' grandchildren, who also became guitarists.
        Pepe and Angel Romero have become prominent soloists. The third son, Celin, has made duet recordings with Pepe. And Mr. Romero himself stepped into the spotlight for several recordings, including two compact disks recorded on the Delos label in the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Romero also composed solo guitar works and songs, and wrote poetry and prose.
        He is survived by his wife and three sons, all of Del Rey.
      