
        Justin J. Finger, who spent three decades as a top lawyer for the Anti-Defamation League and then retired to the courtroom, prosecuting those charged with preying on the elderly, died on Tuesday as he was preparing to deliver the opening argument in an assault case. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn District Attorney, adding that paramedics were unable to revive Mr. Finger after he collapsed in a courtroom in the State Supreme Court Building in downtown Brooklyn.
        When Mr. Hynes announced four years ago that he was looking for retired lawyers to work as unpaid assistant district attorneys on cases involving elderly victims, no one who knew Mr. Finger was surprised that he was the first  to answer the call.
        After all, Mr. Finger, who had just retired as associate national director of the Anti-Defamation League, had been answering one public service call or another since 1942, when he dropped out of school and enlisted in the Navy at the age of 17.
        A native of Manhattan who grew up in Sunnyside, Queens, Mr. Finger eventually graduated from New York University and obtained a law degree at Fordham in 1952. In his 44-year legal career, he never represented a private client.
        While waiting to pass his bar exam, he became an investigator for the old New York State Crime Commission and later served as a staff counsel to the commission; to its successor, the New York Waterfront Commission, and to the New York State Commission of Investigation. He joined the Anti-Defamation League in  1959.
        During the next 33 years he was in the forefront of the league's mission to protect Jews against hatemongers, and often defended the rights of other oppressed groups.
        Based in Atlanta during the turbulent civil rights struggles of the 1960's, Mr. Finger, who became director of the league's civil rights division in 1978 and associate national director in 1987, did not have to look far to find hate groups to oppose.
        At one time or another he did legal battle against the Ku Klux Klan, an assortment of neo-Nazi groups and modern-day skinheads.
        Mr. Finger, who supervised the league's Washington office, testified frequently before Congressional hearings, prepared numerous friend-of-the-court  briefs for the United States Supreme Court, coordinated the preparation of exhaustive research reports auditing anti-Semitic and other bias activities and  was credited with drafting model bias-crime statutes that have been adopted by more than half the states in the country.
        His fight against hatemongering sometimes took unusual turns. In 1988, after  directing an investigation into rumors of anti-Semitism that had plagued the Louis Vuitton luggage company for decades and finding the rumors were groundless, he helped arrange a testimonial dinner for the heads of the company.
        "People don't know it," he said, "but the A.D.L. becomes distressed as well when people are improperly accused of anti-Semitism. It is a bad rap and can damage a person or an institution badly."
        Although he had virtually no experience as a criminal lawyer, it didn't take  long for Mr. Finger to establish himself as a respected eminence grise in the Brooklyn District Attorney's office.
        Younger assistants, far more familiar with the criminal law than he, deferred to him and sought his opinions, colleagues said, but it was his enthusiasm that  captivated his boss, an admirer for years.
        "He was like a kid," Mr. Hynes said yesterday.
        Mr. Finger is survived by his wife, Sophia; two daughters, Janet Goldhill of  Potomac, Md., and Laurel Sidney of Houston; a brother, Bob, of Teaneck, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      