
        Lieut. Gen. Calvin A. H. Waller, deputy commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf war and one of the Army's highest-ranking blacks when he retired in 1991, died on Thursday while on a trip to Washington with his wife, Marion. He was 58.
        General Waller suffered a heart attack, according to a statement released by  his employer, Kaiser-Hill, an environmental contractor based in Colorado.
        General Waller achieved prominence as a skillful and disciplined
        professional and a caring, enthusiastic commander," President Clinton said in a  statement. "His rise from humble beginnings to one of the highest-ranking African-American officers in the U.S. military served as an inspiration to minority and non-minority officers."
        As deputy to Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, the United States commander in the gulf war, General Waller was in charge of American troops in the January 1991 offensive against Iraq. He took command after Lieut. Gen. John J. Yeosock, commander of all Army operations in the war, was forced to step aside by illness.
        Before the war began, General Waller stirred controversy by arguing that American troops would not be ready to fight by the Jan. 15, 1991, deadline set by the United Nations for Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait.
        At the time, the statement was widely criticized as appearing to undercut President George Bush's strategy of steadily increasing pressure on the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, but the general received only a private scolding.
        Allied forces began bombing Iraq and Iraqi-held Kuwait shortly after the deadline. After a 38-day air campaign that virtually demolished Iraq's military  infrastructure, the United States and its allies launched a ground attack that took 100 hours to liberate Kuwait and defeat Iraq.
        General Waller was appointed commander of I Corps in August 1989, and before  that led the Eighth Infantry Division, deployed in what was then West Germany. His 31-year Army career included a one-year tour in Vietnam.
        Upon retiring from the military, General Waller moved to Colorado and served  as president and chief executive officer of RKK Ltd., an environmental-technology company. Last year he joined Kaiser-Hill.
        A native of Baton Rouge, La., he had degrees from Prairie View A&M University and Shippensburg State College.
      