
        Michael L. Glassman, an economist who helped pioneer the application of economic analysis to antitrust sports litigation, died of a heart attack on May  2 on a business flight to St. Louis. He was 56 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. Glassman testified on a variety of matters, including the effects of mergers, price-fixing and other anti-competitive practices, but the cases for which he was best-known were those in which he testified on behalf of professional athletes.
        In the mid-1980's, he testified for the Major League Baseball Players Association in an arbitration involving salary conspiracies by club owners; it resulted in a $280 million settlement.
        "He was instrumental in demonstrating not only that the collusion existed, but also its dimensions," said Gene Orza, assistant general counsel of the association. Until his death, Mr. Orza added, Mr. Glassman was the association's chief economic adviser.
        In 1992, Mr. Glassman testified on behalf of eight professional football players, including Joe Montana, then the quarterback for the San Francisco 49'ers, and Freeman McNeil, a running back for the New York Jets, who contended  that they had lost money because the National Football League would not allow them to negotiate with other teams.
        Mr. Glassman estimated the players' total losses at $4 million, and in three  days of testimony he explained how he analyzed wage data by looking at salaries  from 1984, when the United States Football League was competing for players with the N.F.L., and by looking at salary differences between players who had become  free agents and those who had not.
        The N.F.L. agreed to pay a $200 million settlement to all the players in the  league, including about $2 million for the plaintiffs.
        Mr. Glassman was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Nov. 17, 1939, and received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. He was enrolled in the Ph.D. economics program at the University of Chicago from 1962 to 1966.
        He taught economics at MacMurray College in Jacksonville, Ill., from 1966 to  1971, when he joined the Federal Trade Commission. He was chief of the division  of economic evidence in the commission's bureau of economics from 1972 to 1976,  when he left to become a co-founder of the Glassman-Oliver Economic Consultants  firm in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy, of Bethesda; two sons, David, of Cocoa Beach, Fla., and Ted, of New Orleans; his mother, Lillian Glassman of Kansas City, and two sisters, Susan Boston of Leawood, Kan., and Jane Cohen of Boulder, Colo.
      