
        Charles H. Zimmerman, an aircraft engineer who pioneered experimental flying  machines and played a role in lofting the United States' first astronauts into orbit, died last Sunday in Sentara Hampton General Hospital in Hampton, Va. A Hampton resident, he was 88.
        Mr. Zimmerman spent most of his career in Hampton at the Langley Research Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its predecessor, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics. He joined the staff in 1929 upon graduating from the University of Kansas with a degree in electrical engineering. He received a master's in aeronautical engineering from the University of Virginia in 1954.
        As chief of the Stability and Control Section in the 1930's, he soon became  a tinkerer in the field of revolutionary aircraft design that ran the gamut of their creators' imagination. He contributed to wind-tunnel development to evaluate the spinning motions of aircraft; he analyzed them so that the craft might recover and return to even flight.
        His work with aircraft stability led him to invent an early version of a vertical short take-off and landing airplane. Another invention was a "flying platform," a slow-moving craft shaped like a pancake on which the pilot would stand upright and steer by leaning his body like a skier.
        He developed what became known as the Zimmer Skimmer, formally named the V-173 Flying Wing. Built for the Navy, the odd-looking contraption showed such remarkable flight behavior at low speed that Charles A. Lindbergh joined the test pilots.
        In 1953, at the dawn of the space age, Mr. Zimmerman joined a three-member study group that called on the country to go forward with research for space flight. After heading a Space Task Force in 1958, he became a division chief for Project Mercury, in charge of logistics. He was named director of aeronautics at NASA headquarters in 1962 and retired in 1967.
        Mr. Zimmerman is survived by his wife of 64 years, Beatrice; a son, Charles H. Jr., of Hampton; two brothers, Roy S. and Raymond J., both residents of Kansas; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      