
        Saul Goodman, who turned a chance teen-age encounter with a set of kettledrums into an acclaimed 46-year career as the principal timpanist of the New York Philharmonic, died on Friday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Goodman was widely regarded as the principal inspiration for generations  of accomplished percussionists. From the moment he took his position on a platform behind the second violinist in Carnegie Hall on Oct. 14, 1926, until he stepped down to a resounding ovation in Philharmonic Hall at the end of the 1972 season, Mr. Goodman made a persuasive case that, in his hands at least, the drums were the music and the rest mere embellishment.
        the timpani." He was credited with introducing a subtle lyricism to an instrument previously regarded as little more than an elaborate metronome.
        It was a reflection of Mr. Goodman's influence that during the 41 years he taught and served as chief of the percussion department at Juilliard, he attracted pupils who went on to populate the percussion sections of the great orchestras of the United States, Europe and Asia.
        And it was a measure of the depth of his musical understanding and of his mechanical skills that he built his own drums and revolutionized their very design, using lighter metals that reduced their individual weight from 140 to 55 pounds and inventing a chain tuning device that made it easier to keep their harmonics in balance.
        Mr. Goodman, who wrote books on percussion, lectured widely and composed, commissioned a cabinetmaker to make sticks and mallets of his design. Not that he wasn't capable of making his own: during Leonard Bernstein's tenure as the Philharmonic's conductor, Mr. Goodman turned out the maestro's batons in the wood-working shop in the basement of his home in Yonkers.
        His aptitude for rhythm manifested itself early. Growing up in Brooklyn, he began playing the drums at age 4, and by the time he was a teen-ager had played  the bass drum for school and Boy Scout bands.
        Even so, he was thinking of a medical career when at 14 he happened to pass by a school auditorium where the Philharmonic was performing Tchaikovsky's Fourth Symphony, whach includes a colorful timpani part. Enchanted by the sounds, Mr. Goodman, who had never heard a concert orchestra, was lured inside.
        At the end of the concert he made a beeline for the timpanist, Alfred Friese, and asked him to become his teacher. After listening to the youngster play and marveling at his innate sense of rhythm, Mr. Friese agreed.
        Over the next few years, Mr. Goodman became good enough to play in silent movie theaters, burlesque and vaudeville houses and even on occasion as a fill-in with the Philharmonic and Walter Damrosch's New York Symphony.
        He was attending New York University, still preparing to become a doctor, when illness forced Mr. Friese to retire. Mr. Goodman, then 19, took his place.
        When he retired more than four decades and 6,000 concerts later, he had held  a principal Philharmonic position longer than any other musician in its history.
        Mr. Goodman, whose wife, Lillian Rehberg, a cellist, died 10 years ago, is survived by his companion, Millie Blumoff, and his twin daughters, Dr. Helen Silver Hendrikson of Yonkers and Ruth Greenberg of Greenwich, and three grandchildren.
      