
        Emile Habibi, an Israeli Arab writer whose depiction of the predicament of Arabs in the Jewish state made him one of the most prominent and popular authors in the Middle East, died today in a hospital in Nazareth. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Widely read throughout the Arab world and translated into more than a dozen  languages, including Hebrew, Mr. Habibi's novels and stories explored the conflicts of a people caught between their Arab identity and their Israeli citizenship.
        He was awarded Israel's highest cultural award, the Israel Prize, in 1992, and the top Palestinian literary honor, the Jerusalem Medal, by the Palestine Liberation Organization in 1990.
        His most renowned work, "The Secret Life of Said the Pessoptimist," portrayed with ironic humor a character who embodied the contradictions of Israeli Arab life, trying to conform to Israeli society while struggling to preserve his Arab roots.
        In rich Arabic prose embellished with original expressions that he coined, Mr. Habibi also wrote of the differences that emerged when Israel's Arabs were reunited with their Palestinian brothers after Israel captured the West Bank and Gaza Strip in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
        Mr. Habibi was born in Haifa on Aug. 29, 1922, during the British Mandate in  Palestine. Like many Israeli Arabs, he stayed in the country when others fled or were forced from their homes during the Arab-Jewish fighting that followed Israel's declaration of independence in 1948.
        He was a founder of the Israeli Communist Party and editor of its newspaper,  serving as a parliament member for two decades. But he broke with the party when it opposed reforms in the Soviet Union in the 1980's, and he severed ties with it after it backed a coup in Moscow by Communist hard-liners in 1991.
        He turned to writing fiction in the 1970's and 80's, publishing three novels, a play and two collections of short stories. But he continued to write political articles in Israeli Arab and Palestinian newspapers.
        While asserting his Arab identity and heritage, Mr. Habibi was also a staunch advocate of Jewish-Arab coexistence and mutual recognition between Israelis and  Palestinians.
        His acceptance of the Israel Prize set off fierce debate in Arab intellectual circles. Critics accused him of lending legitimacy to what they called the discriminatory and anti-Arab policies of Israel's government, then led by the right-wing Likud party.
        But Mr. Habibi replied that the prize was an acknowledgement of Arab cultural achievement and could promote Israeli-Palestinian peace.
        "A dialogue of prizes is better than a dialogue of stones and bullets," he said. "It is indirect recognition of the Arabs in Israel as a nation. This is recognition of a national culture. It will help the Arab population in its struggle to strike roots in the land and win equal rights."
        Holding up the Israeli Arab experience as a model of steadfastness in the face of adversity and dispersion, Mr. Habibi asked in his will that his tombstone be inscribed: "Emile Habibi -- remained in Haifa."
        He is survived by his wife, Nada; a son, Salaam; two daughters, Johaina Kandalaft and Rawiya Ganadri; 10 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      