
        Jack R. Osborn, a passionate popularizer of the venerable sport of croquet, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, according to his son, John C. Osborn, also of Palm Beach Gardens.
        Besides devoting himself to popularizing croquet, which originated in France  in the 15th century, Mr. Osborn was ranked among the world's best players at the peak of his career, founded the United States Croquet Association, reconfigured  and standardized the size of the court, brought uniformity to croquet's rules and co-wrote two books on the game.
        In 1980, three years after he founded the Croquet Association, the governing body of the sport in the United States, Mr. Osborn said, "I look forward to the  time when I can go from one city to another, 52 weeks a year, like the Johnny Appleseed of croquet." He lived to see the 3,500-member organization sanction some 80 tournaments, 10 of them major championships, played annually around the  country.
        In contrast to the nine-wicket, short-mallet, two-stake game popularized in the 19th century and played in millions of backyards, Mr. Osborn's game was a six-wicket, one-stake game played on an 84-by-105-foot grass court with a 10-inch mallet at the end of a 2 1/2-to 3-foot handle. The objective was to score points by hitting a ball along the course, through the wickets and into the stake at the end of the course.
        In a speech not long before his death, Mr. Osborn said:
        "The game of croquet, to which I have given such a large portion of my life,  fuses so many different elements: competition, a fine eye, a sharp mind, a firm  stroke, a large amount of patience, ability to plan ahead and, by no means the least, a control of one's temper. Few of us have had all these qualities in hand in every game. But they are there to strive for in all games. Yet beyond all of  these, our game provides that finest of outcomes: comradeship. It is that which  brings us together. And it is that which I have always enjoyed, wicket by wicket."
        Mr. Osborn, a native of San Francisco, was the Osborn of the industrial design firm Osborn/Charles Associates in New York City when he decided in the mid-1960's that croquet deserved to spread beyond the courts of Long Island and  the estates of Beverly Hills. He had picked up his first mallet in 1960, and in  his career won 80 events and 7 United States Croquet Association national titles. In 1989, at age 60, he became the organization's Florida state singles champion. He was captain of the United States National Team for eight years and  from 1977 to 1988, the Croquet Association's president.
        Mr. Osborn was the co-author with Jesse Kornbluth of "Winning Croquet," published in 1983, and with his son, John, of "Croquet: The Sport," published in 1989.
        Mr. Osborn is survived by his son.
      