
        Gen. Merrill B. Twining of the Marine Corps, who helped plan the landing on Guadalcanal in World War II and later fought in the Korean War, died last Saturday at a hospital in Fallbrook, Calif., where he had been living in retirement. He was 92.
        General Twining retired in 1959 as Commandant of the Marine Corps Schools in  Quantico, Va., the training ground for generations of American and foreign military commanders. His brother, Gen. Nathan F. Twining of the Air Force, was then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        Merrill Twining was born in Monroe, Wis., and graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1923. After being assigned to Marine Corps  posts in Quantico, Pensacola, Fla., and Hawaii, he served in China before returning to the United States in 1928.
        While working at the Judge Advocate General's office in Washington in 1929, he earned a law degree at George Washington University.
        In 1941 he was assigned to the First Marine Division at Camp LeJeune, N.C. He had reached the rank of lieutenant colonel by May 1942, when the division moved  to the Pacific, and served as the operations officer and assistant chief of staff.
        Colonel Twining helped plan the Aug. 7, 1942, landing on Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands in the South Pacific. The landing, the first offensive action by American land, sea and air units in what would become the long, grueling road to Tokyo, ended with the Japanese evacuation on Feb. 9, 1943.
        Before the landing, Colonel Twining went on an aerial scouting mission that helped him and other officers map strategy in the Guadalcanal campaign. For his  action he was awarded the Legion of Merit.
        In November 1943 he was reassigned to the Marine Corps Schools in Quantico, where he served until 1947. By 1952, when he rejoined the First Marine Division  as assistant division commander, the Korean War was in its second year and he had reached the rank of major general.
        After further service in the United States, General Twining returned to Korea in 1955 as commander of the First Marine Division, and led it back to its base at Camp Pendleton, Calif., that year.
        He assumed command of the Marine Corps Schools in 1956 as a lieutenant general, and he was given four-star rank on retirement in 1959.
        That was a year of discontent for the Navy and Marine Corps, whose decorated  combat veterans were promoted to the next rank when they retired. Congress revoked that privilege under a law called the "tombstone promotion" act, and President Dwight D. Eisenhower reluctantly went along.
        In addition, Maj. Gen. David M. Shoup, was named Commandant of the Marines, a post for which General Twining had been considered. Having been passed by, all five Marine lieutenant generals took early retirement just before the tombstone  act went into effect.
        General Twining is survived by a son, David S., of Corvallis, Ore., a retired Marine Corps colonel, and four grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      