
        Sam Lopata, whose whimsical and exuberant restaurant designs set the standard for grand cafes in New York City, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54.
        The cause was complications of brain cancer, said his wife, Gayle.
        Mr. Lopata's early life contained little of the laughter that eventually became his trademark. He was born in occupied Paris three months after his father, a milliner, was arrested by the Germans during a roundup of Jews; he would die in Auschwitz. After Mr. Lopata's birth, he, his mother and his two older sisters were taken into custody, but later freed. He grew up, he said, poor and carefree on the streets of Paris. Because the worst had already happened, he said, there was nothing left to worry about except having fun.
        Mr. Lopata studied art and architecture at the Ecole Nationale des Beaux-Arts, where he organized parades and marches, parties and theatrical installations. His first professional project was designing a topless bar in St. Tropez. He moved to New York shortly after its completion in 1971.
        His English at the time consisted of the words "great idea" (always pronounced "eye-dee") and "yes,", but he had boundless energy, style and a capacity for fun. Mr. Lopata was also resourceful. In the five years it took to  persuade a restaurateur to allow him to design Chez Pascal, his first dining room in Manhattan, Mr. Lopata supported himself by sculpting prosthetic breasts  in a friend's garage in Westchester County. The breasts, said one well-known reconstructive surgeon who commissioned Mr. Lopata, had remarkable personality and grace.
        According to the designer, the leap from intimate anatomy to public space was not as great as it would seem. The restaurant craze in New York was all about sex and exhibitionism, and "I was lucky to be in the right place at the right time, no?"
        Joanna, the sprawling cafe he designed in the Flatiron District, was a quirky breath of fresh air when it opened in 1978 and quickly became the place for the  young, the hip and the beautiful. Lopata designs seemed to attract people like himself: dreamers with artsy ambitions. The scene in Lopata-designed restaurants was always one part Greenwich Village Halloween Parade, one part Seventh Avenue  runway, one part Wall Street trading floor.
        After Joanna, Mr. Lopata designed Cafe Seiyoken; Baton's; Pig Heaven; Cafe Marimba; Safari Grill;, La Boheme; Lox Around the Clock; Coastal; Extra! Extra!; Home on the Range; Anabelle, and the Pipeline, all in Manhattan, as well as dozens of restaurants and clubs throughout the United States, Europe, Japan and  Thailand.
        Analyzing his success, he recently echoed the movie "Field of Dreams": People are either living in a fantasy or looking for a fantasy. Build it and they will  come.
        Although he received dozens of design awards, he was proudest of being named  Restaurant Designer of the Year by Time magazine in 1986. "That means the country is ready to laugh," he said.
        Although he was regularly referred to in print as a guru of style, Mr. Lopata was damned as the man who turned up the volume in restaurants; The New York Times once described Pipeline as loud and louder. He was occasionally scorned for what appeared to be a theme-park approach to dining rooms.
        But Mr Lopata was the indisputed Impresario of Fun. In 1990, Esquire magazine wrote that nobody was better at cooking up a highly seasoned ambiance than Sam Lopata.
        Shortly thereafter, as the market for cavernous cafes weakened, Mr. Lopata designed more intimate dining rooms, including Vince & Eddie's and Le Select in  Manhattan. He was also called to breathe life into such staid and venerable dining rooms as Lutece and Sardi's. The mood had shifted, he said: food had moved to center stage and people wanted to be fascinated by the contents of their plates, not by the walls.
        Beneath Mr. Lopata's raucous laugh, said Andre Soltner, the former owner of Lutece, lurked a serious, driven, indefatigable perfectionist, who approached walls and floors, tables and chairs as an artist approaches a canvas.
        Mr. Lopata always worked alone, and at times, his methodology shocked his clients. Deciding, for instance, that he wanted what he called a disheveled, love-in-the-ruins look for Lox Around the Clock, he built a perfectly finished dining room and then hired a wrecking crew to destroy it. The subsequent crumble, replete with dangling electrical wires and occasional glimpses of plumping pipes and metal supports, remained his favorite dining room.
        Life goes on, he said. You go into this wreck of a place and you have fun. Get it?
        When he was told in 1994 that he had cancer, Mr. Lopata closed his firm, Sam  Lopata Inc., in Manhattan, sold his West Side co-op and moved to Remsenburg, N.Y., to enjoy the remainder of his life with his wife and Maxie, the Jack Russell terrier that was as much a part of Mr. Lopata's image as his Missoni sweaters and lizard cowboy boots.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Lopata is survived by his sisters, Adele Infeld and Suzanne Kreienbuhl, of Paris.
        Correction:  May 24, 1996, Friday
        An obituary on Saturday about Sam Lopata, who designed a number of New York restaurants, gave an incorrect date for the opening of one of them. The restaurant, Joanna, was opened in 1980, not 1978.
      