
        Johnny (Guitar) Watson, a flamboyant pioneer of rhythm and blues whose music  influenced performers like Jimi Hendrix, Frank Zappa and Stevie Ray Vaughan, died on Friday just after he took the stage for a performance in Yokohama, Japan. He was 61 and lived in Los Angeles.
        He suffered a heart attack, said Al Bell, owner of Bellmark Records, his most recent label.
        Only two months ago, his career resurgent, Mr. Watson was honored at the Hollywood Palladium in Los Angeles with a Pioneer Award of the Rhythm and Blues  Foundation. The organization provides cash and medical care and pays other expenses for performers of the 1930's to the 1970's, in the genres that were variously called race music, rhythm-and-blues and soul.
        "We went up and down the highways at night, riding in raggedy buses, and the  promoters went away with the money," said Bo Diddley, who was among those honored with Mr. Watson. "Some of us didn't have the down payment on a Popsicle."
        Last year in The New York Times, the critic Peter Watrous wrote: "There are few more lascivious sounds in popular music than the voice of Johnny (Guitar) Watson. When he sings 'Booty Ooty' or 'Hot Little Mama,' it isn't just come hither he's singing. It is something much more joyous, and completely unprintable. The sound is the calling card of the Gangster of Love (his nickname, taken from the song of the same name), and a celebration of music's ability to convey carnality."
        At that time, Mr. Watson had only recently emerged from obscurity with a relative hit, "Bow Wow," and he had begun his first series of concerts in the United States in 14 years.
        Mr. Watson, born in Houston in 1935, learned to play the piano from his father. At 15, Mr. Watson moved to Los Angeles and became enchanted with the sound and extroverted stagecraft of Clarence (Gatemouth) Brown, a blues guitar and fiddle virtuoso who used a big band, dabbled in country and jazz and picked  his guitar in idiosyncratic style (Mr. Watson sometimes used his teeth).
        Recalling the Los Angeles of those days, Mr. Watson said: "Wardell Gray, Dexter Gordon, Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Parker, Count Basie and Illinois Jacquet, they were all playing around, and jazz and blues were all mixed up."
        Mr. Watson made his first record in 1953 as Young John Watson, and his tunes  soon helped define a West Coast jump blues style that was sexual, optimistic and full of fun.
        Frank Zappa, who used Mr. Watson on several recordings, once described his guitar sound as "an icepick to the forehead."
        In the 1960's, he joined with the rock-and-roll star Larry Williams, but by the early 1970's Mr. Watson's career was effectively finished, his rhythm-and-blues style shouldered aside by soul and funk. But he reinvented himself, dressing flamboyantly and playing hard funk. In 1977 at Carnegie Hall,  he wore a sequined, skin-tight suit, sported a Panama hat over an immense Afro haircut and strutted across the stage.
        But after his last American show in the early 1980's, Mr. Watson all but vanished. For several years, he performed during the summer in Europe, where the French knew him as the Godfather of Funk.
        "I got caught up with the wrong people doing the wrong things," Mr. Watson said last year. But later, he said, "I got rid of my friends, cleaned myself off and started writing more."
        A few years ago, Mr. Bell began working with Mr. Watson. His Bellmark company released "Bow Wow" in 1994 and encouraged Mr. Watson to begin touring again.
        Mr. Watson is survived by his wife, Susan; his mother, Wilma; a son, DeJohn,  and a daughter, Virginia.
      