
        Robert A. Mead, an award-winning network news producer who also served as an  adviser to former President Gerald R. Ford, died on Tuesday at his home in Orange, Va. He was 61.
        Mr. Mead, who was the producer of NBC's "Weekend Nightly News" based in Washington, when he left the network in 1993, suffered a heart attack, according to his daughter, Robyn Anne Mead.
        Mr. Mead began his broadcasting career as a cameraman at WISH-TV in Indianapolis. In 1964, he joined CBS News as an associate producer of "CBS News  With Walter Cronkite" in Washington, and he later became the producer for White  House correspondent Dan Rather, now CBS's weekday anchor, during the Nixon Administration. He also produced numerous TV specials for CBS on political campaigns and elections. In 1974, his production of "The Resignation of Spiro Agnew" won an Emmy Award.
        Later that year, Mr. Mead left CBS and joined Mr. Ford's staff, becoming the  first professional television adviser to serve in the White House since the Eisenhower Administration. In that post, he helped Mr. Ford adapt his style to television, bringing a state-of-the-art teleprompter into 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, holding news conferences in the Rose Garden and allowing the public to view the first family's living quarters as they really were, not spruced up for  a broadcast. Mr. Mead resigned in 1976 after he was criticized by Ron Nessen, the White House press secretary.
        After working for the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Mead joined the  Washington bureau of NBC News in 1980, later becoming the Washington producer of "NBC News Overnight." He moved to New York in 1984 and became senior producer of the "Today" show. He then served as director of news coverage until 1990, when he returned to Washington.
        Mr. Mead is an alumnus of Butler University in Indianapolis and Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind.
        Mr. Mead is survived by four children: Allison Marie Delaquis, of Seattle; Rodney Allen Mead, of Fairfax, Va.; Robyn Anne Mead of Vienna, Va., and Robert Albright Mead of Stamford, Conn. He is also survived by a brother, George Mead,  of Cincinnati, and his former wife, Sandra Mead Baughman, of Vienna, Va.
      