
        Chet Forte, the tiny Columbia basketball player who won a national scoring title but earned more fame as the director of "Monday Night Football" before a gambling addiction ended his television career, died in San Diego Saturday of a  heart attack. He was 60.
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Forte, who was pronounced dead at his  home, had undergone triple-bypass surgery last summer and had a history of heart problems dating to the 1980's.
        At the time of his death, he was a radio talk-show host in San Diego. But Mr. Forte made his mark as the director of "Monday Night Football," which made its debut in 1970 and has been a television ratings force ever since. His innovations included the use of numerous camera angles and graphics, which are now standard in sports broadcasts.
        "One of these days, they'll come up with a camera an inch long, and we'll stick it on the football," he said in a 1983 interview in which he seemed to be  only half-kidding.
        From his seat in the control room of the production truck, where he faced 20  television monitors, Mr. Forte barked orders to show reactions of players, fans  and coaches. The dramatics, plus the ground-level shots of high-kicking cheerleaders, became Forte trademarks.
        Mr. Forte viewed the prime-time telecast as "his show, lock, stock and barrel," the late Howard Cosell, a member of the broadcast team and the best man at Mr. Forte's wedding, said in 1990.
        "Monday Night Football" also relied heavily on statistical graphics. "We feel not all our viewers are sitting home 10 feet from their set," Mr. Forte said. "A lot of people watch in bars or clubs, where they can see but they can't really hear. Graphics help them."
        Fulvio Chester Forte Jr. was born Aug. 7, 1935, in Hackensack, N.J., the only child of a sports-loving mother and a physician. The class president at Hackensack High School, he became an all-America player at Columbia despite being 5 feet 7 inches and 145 pounds. He still holds 11 school records.
        In 1956-57, his senior year, "Chet the Jet" led the nation in scoring with a  28.9 average, beating Wilt Chamberlain, then a 7-foot Kansas sophomore. As Mr. Forte said at the time, "Confidence is everything."
        Mr. Forte started a pre-med student, but had academic problems. When he graduated, he barnstormed with the Harlem Globetrotters and failed a tryout with the Rochester Royals. He eventually wound up with CBS, where he stayed five years before switching to ABC.
        He won 11 Emmy awards in his 25-year career at ABC, where he was producer-director of sporting-event telecasts, including the 1968 and 1984 Summer Olympics. But he was unable to find a job in television when he left the  network in 1987.
        By that time, he had gambled away nearly $4 million and lost a million-dollar home in Saddle River, N.J. He had begun gambling in the early 1960's, betting on sports and at casino gaming tables.
        He admitted defrauding a New Jersey businessman of $100,000 to get more gambling money, got into trouble with the Internal Revenue Service and in 1990 pleaded guilty to mail and wire fraud as well as income tax evasion.
        In 1992, Mr. Forte was sentenced to five years' probation, community service  and fines. Judge Joseph Rodriguez said the only reason he didn't throw him in jail was that he had cooperated and begun treatment for his gambling addiction.
        "I lost all my money, I lost all my respect," Mr. Forte said at the time. "I  hurt my family, and I hurt my friends." He moved from New York to California, where he worked as a talk-show host for XTRA-AM, an all-sports radio station in  San Diego. He started at $57,800 a year. He said he had made $900,000 annually at ABC.
        In a 1994 interview, Mr. Forte said he hadn't gambled in more than six years  and attended Gamblers Anonymous meetings regularly.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, and their daughter, Jacqueline.
      