
        Spiros Argiris, the principal conductor and director of operatic and symphonic activities at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A., in Charleston, S.C., for most of the last decade, died yesterday at the Hopital Cimiez in Nice, France. He was 47 years old and lived in Monte Carlo.
        Nigel Redden, the general manager of the festival, said the cause was lung cancer. Mr. Argiris had been scheduled to conduct several performances at the festival, which opens on Friday, including a production of Verdi's "Falstaff." He withdrew from the festival three weeks ago because of his health.
        A sensitive performer who was at home in a broad repertory that ran from Mozart operas through recent works by Alfred Schnittke and Hans Werner Henze, Mr. Argiris was best known to American audiences through his performances at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. He was appointed music director of the festival and of its counterpart in Spoleto, Italy, in 1986. Among his most memorable productions was an intimate setting of Mozart's "Nozze di Figaro," a performance that was notable not only for his graceful pacing but also for his stylish harpsichord embellishment. He also conducted a production of Strauss's "Elektra" in 1992 that was widely praised as one of the festival's most thrilling offerings in several seasons.
        Mr. Argiris remained largely outside the frequent battles between Spoleto's board and Gian Carlo Menotti, the temperamental conductor who founded the festival, but he resigned his posts at both the American and Italian festivals in 1992, returning to Charleston only after Mr. Menotti's departure from the American festival in 1993.
        Mr. Argiris, who was also the director of the Teatro Verdi in Trieste, and the Orchestre Philharmonique de Nice, was born in Athens in 1948. He studied conducting in Vienna with Hans Swarowsky and in Fontainebleau, near Paris, with  Nadia Boulanger. He also studied the piano with Alfons Kontarsky. He was best known as an opera conductor and led productions at the Hamburg State Opera, the  Deutsche Oper Berlin, the Bavarian State Opera, the Rome Opera, the Monte Carlo  Opera and the Bastille Opera in Paris. He was music director of the Teatro Bellini in Catania, Italy, from 1991 to 1994.
        In North America, he has conducted productions at the Baltimore Opera, the Miami Opera and the Montreal Opera. As a symphonic conductor, he led the radio orchestras of Berlin and Cologne, as well as the Gewandhaus Orchestra of Leipzig, the Montreal Symphony, the Orchestra of Santa Cecilia, in Rome, and the Melbourne Symphony.
        He is survived by his wife, Lena Argiris, and a stepson, Alexis Conran.
        Correction:  May 21, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about the conductor Spiros Argiris misstated the specialty of Gian Carlo Menotti, the founder of the Spoleto festivals, for which Mr. Argiris was a music director. Mr. Menotti is a composer, not a conductor.
      