
        Dr. Julius Marmur, a biochemist and geneticist whose early D.N.A. research helped unravel the mysteries of heredity, died on Monday at the Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 70 and  lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        The cause was lymphoma, the college said.
        Working at Harvard University in the late 1950's in tandem with Dr. Paul M.  Doty, Dr. Marmur discovered an important building block of modern molecular biology. The two chemists established that D.N.A., or deoxyribonucleic acid, could be pulled apart and put back together.
        Their finding indicated the double helical nature of D.N.A., which contains the genetic code and transmits hereditary patterns, and opened the way to future advances in the field. James B. Watson, the Nobel laureate who was co-discoverer of the double-helix structure of D.N.A., held that Dr. Marmur's results were neglected at the time because their significance was unappreciated.
        "Now we take nucleic acid hybridization for granted because it forms the basis of so much of recombinant D.N.A. technology," Dr. Watson wrote last year.  "But back in the 1950's, this discovery was totally unanticipated (at least by me) with no one else then willing to risk his career by trying to pull it off."
        In 1963, Dr. Marmur joined the Albert Einstein College of Yeshiva University, where he was professor of biochemistry and molecular genetics and played a central role in developing the college's curriculum and research in those fields.
        He was born in Bialystok, Poland, grew up in Canada and graduated from McGill University in 1946. He received a master's degree from McGill and a Ph.D. in bacterial physiology from Iowa State University. He was an author of nearly 200  scientific papers and served on the editorial boards of major journals.
        Dr. Marmur is survived by his wife, Mildred Rosenberg Marmur; two sons, Alexander, of San Francisco, and Nathaniel, of Memphis; a brother, Ben, of Toronto, and a sister, Rose Michaelis of Tel Aviv.
      