
        Max J. Rubin, a lawyer who took his first step toward becoming president of the New York City Board of Education when his wife sent him to a suburban Parent-Teacher Association meeting in 1946, died on Wednesday at the Fairhaven Life Care Community, a retirement facility in Sykesville, Md. He was 90.
        Mr. Rubin, who led the board from 1961 to 1963 and held a variety of prominent posts in education in the years before and after, was a stalwart believer in the importance of community involvement and the excellence of teachers as cornerstones of improved instruction.
        The most important key to an effective education program is the classroom teacher," he said in 1961. "The ultimate responsibility for the quality of teaching is the quality of the teacher."
        In the realm of education, Mr. Rubin first attracted notice in the 1950's as  president of the Board of Education in Great Neck, L.I., a fast-growing suburb at the time, where modern teaching methods were introduced to make learning more fun.
        Report cards were replaced by progress reports. Frequent parent-teacher conferences cleared up misunderstandings before they could become conflicts. A strong citizens committee worked to marshal public support for the schools, and  a system of four three-grade "community schools," limited to 300 students, was established to serve specific neighborhoods.
        Recognition of the Great Neck system as one of the finest in the country led  to Mr. Rubin's appointment to the White House Conference on Education in 1955. In 1958, Dr. James E. Allen Jr., the State Commissioner of Education, appointed  Mr. Rubin to a three-member team that investigated charges of waste and corruption in the New York City school construction program.
        Although the charges were found to be unjustified, the committee declared that a reorganization of the school board was called for.In April 1961, Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed Mr. Rubin to a three-member committee to recommend improvements. The committee called for replacement of the board.
        Mr. Rubin, who had served in 1959 and 1960 as president of the New York State Citizens Committee for the Public Schools, an organization dedicated to community involvement in school problems, was elected president of the new board.
        He made clear that real reforms were impossible without strong financial support from the city. Without that, he said, "I could only plead insanity in taking this job."
        "We do not spend on education; we invest in it," he said. "The returns on the investment are far more important to us, individually and collectively, than any other investment we make."
        Mr. Rubin resigned in 1963 for health reasons. He was later appointed to various boards and commissions on education by Govs. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Hugh L. Carey. In 1965, the State Legislature elected Mr. Rubin to the Board of  Regents, on which he served until June 1973, and he remained a Regent Emeritus until his death.
        He served on the Board of Visitors of Stanford University and in 1981 was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws by City University.
        Mr. Rubin was born in Manhattan on Feb. 2, 1906. The son of poor Russian immigrants, he graduated in 1923 from Morris High School in the Bronx, where he  was captain of the debating team and president of the senior class and student government.
        After a year at City College, he entered the New York University Scool of Law and graduated at the head of his class in 1927. He practiced law from then until 1953 with Karelsen, Karelsen, Rubin & Rosenberg, and in 1953 became a founding partner of the firm now known as Rubin Baum Levin Constant & Friedman.
        Mr. Rubin's first wife, Belle, died in 1970. He is survived by his second wife, Edith, of Sykesville; two sons from his first marriage, Steven H., of Charlottesville, Va., and Matthew M., of Chevy Chase, Md.; a stepdaughter, Carol S. Palermo of Mystic, Conn.; a sister, Lillian Huberman of Rancho Bernardo, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      