
        Harold H. Goldberg, who for 14 years was the forceful chairman of the committees at Moody's Investors Service that rate the quality of corporate debt, died Monday night at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 68.
        Last June, Mr. Goldberg, who lived in South Salem, N.Y., announced his retirement and soon afterward learned that he had cancer, his widow, Carol Goldberg, said last night.
        Mr. Goldberg, who was also a lawyer, was described by Martin S. Fridson, chief of high-yield securities at Merrill Lynch & Company, as an analyst with "unusually keen insight."
        In 1982, for example, Mr. Goldberg gleaned from the footnotes in financial statements of natural gas pipeline companies that some of them would eventually  get into financial trouble because of contracts that required them to pay for natural gas from well owners whether or not they had buyers for the gas.
        "Hal felt very strongly that these contracts were significant burdens for pipeline companies and would create credit difficulties," said Jack Malvey, who  at the time was a junior credit analyst at Moody's.
        "Unfortunately, some of Hal's colleagues, including me, persuaded others that this difficulty was manageable and was not something that we needed to be overly concerned about," Mr. Malvey, now an executive at Lehman Brothers, said in a telephone interview last night from London.
        "As it turned out," Mr. Malvey added, "these contracts were a major problem for the gas pipeline companies, notably Columbia Gas System, and Hal identified  the problem years before anyone else." Columbia sought refuge from creditors in  bankruptcy proceedings in 1991, emerging only last year.
        For years, corporate chieftains and their chief financial officers would come to make their case to Mr. Goldberg and his teams of analysts for favorable ratings on the bonds, notes and commercial paper they were about to sell or that was in the market and being traded by investors.
        A good rating -- Moody's has 19 categories from Aaa to C -- could mean a lower cost for new borrowing and thus help a company's profitability. But a low  rating, a revision to speculative or placement on Moody's Rating Review list, could not only cause investors to demand higher prices for newly issued debt or  to lower the price of existing debt. Such a rating could also help shorten a chief executive's tenure at a troubled company.
        When Mr. Goldberg started out in 1952, as a credit reporter trainee at Dun &  Bradstreet, Moody's parent, Wall Street was a relatively small enclave. But by the time Mr. Goldberg retired, companies were selling debt in markets around the world to finance multibillion-dollar projects and acquisitions.
        Bond ratings, largely by Moody's and its largest competitor, Standard & Poor's, now cover everything from corporations to countries, carrying substantial weight with investors.
        Those ratings rank bonds on the likelihood they will be repaid, ranging from  triple-A for the safest bonds issued by the healthiest and best-managed corporations down to speculative ratings, commonly called junk bonds.
        These ratings have also become crucial in the growing business of selling short-term commercial paper instead of depositing extra cash with a bank.
        Pam Stubing, a senior credit analyst at Moody's who worked with Mr. Goldberg  for 20 years, said he was a father figure who took a special interest in teaching the nuances of valuing corporate creditworthiness.
        "He taught me, and others, that bond raters should have very forceful opinions," Ms. Stubing said. "He taught you to say what you think and to remember that your opinion could change because a bond rating was an opinion in  time."
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Goldberg is survived by three daughters, Michelle Levine of Scarsdale, N.Y., Nancy Muskin of Eastchester, N.Y., and Ann Januszkiewicz of Buffalo, and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 1, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Harold H. Goldberg, the former chairman of the committees at Moody's Investors Service that rate the quality of corporate debt, misstated his residence in some editions. It was South Salem, N.Y., not Norwalk, Conn.
      