
        Andreas Papandreou, the former Prime Minister of Greece and a maverick who towered over Greek political life for more than two decades, died early today at his home in Athens. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, his doctors said in a statement. Mr. Papandreou had open-heart surgery in 1988, though that did not keep him from winning an election in 1993.
        But during 1995, his failing health prevented him from performing his dutiesm leaving Greece flailing. Yet even as his fiery voice had thinned to a near whisper and he walked with great difficulty, Mr. Papandreou refused to step aside or name a deputy to run the Government.
        Finally, in January, his Socialist Party named Costas Simitis Prime Minister, and Mr. Papandreou had not been seen in public since his release from a hospital on March 21.
        Few other politicians in modern Greece have inspired as much love and loathing at home and as much bewilderment and irritation abroad. The tall figure with bushy eyebrows fascinated Greeks with his compelling oratory and his unpredictable and volatile ways, and he remained hard to fathom even for his friends.
        He was successful at home because he appealed to Greece's thirst for change,  and his nationalist polemics appealed to the Greeks' perennial feeling of being misunderstood and unappreciated.
        Abroad, Greece's Western allies were regularly befuddled as the undoctrinaire Socialist took positions diametrically opposed to theirs on issues ranging from  Serbian aggression in Bosnia to the role of NATO.
        Above all, the United States loomed large in his life, for that was where he  had served in the Navy, graduated from college, worked, married twice and had four children; it was his source of funds and the nation that he first admired and later railed against obsessively.
        The core of his foreign policy was to end Greece's status as "a client state  of the West." As a result, he refused to condemn the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan and variously threatened to pull out of NATO, the United Nations and the European Union, although he accepted the Union's generous funds.
        He blocked European credits for Turkey, Greece's enemy. While others shunned  Libya and Yugoslavia, he improved his ties there. In the Bosnian war he supported Serbia, a longtime ally, and opposed sanctions against Serbia. He was  reluctant to condemn Serbian atrocities, even in the face of ample evidence.
        Mr. Papandreou thrived on being contrary; he described this as "tightrope diplomacy." Until the collapse of the Soviet Union, he was especially skillful at extracting funds from fearful Western governments that wanted to protect Europe's southeastern flank in the Communist Balkans. But despite his polemics,  he remained pro-Western.
        Although he was always passionate about politics, his life was made up of very distinct parts.
        The only son of Sophia and George Papandreou, Andreas George Papandreou was born on Feb. 5, 1919, on Chios, while his father served as governor general of the Aegean Islands. When Andreas was five, his parents divorced. But he stayed in touch with his father, who rose in politics and became a powerful and popular leader, eventually becoming Prime Minister.
        In 1937, when Andreas entered Athens University Law School, Greece was ruled  by a right-wing dictator, Gen. Ioannis Metaxas, and his father and other liberals were banished to the island of Andros. Andreas, by now a Trotskyist, joined a resistance group that distributed underground newspapers and pamphlets, for which he was arrested and tortured.
        Shortly before Mussolini's troops entered Greece, Andreas Papandreou left for New York, where he arrived in May 1940 with $14 in his pocket. He enrolled at Columbia University and took odd jobs to support himself. He married a Greek-American, Christine Rassias, in 1941 and earned a doctorate in economics at Harvard University in 1943.
        The marriage ended in divorce a decade later. Dr. Rassias, a psychiatrist, said she often felt bullied by her husband, that he was a "ruffian" and "lied all the time." She wrote an unpublished autobiography in which she described Mr. Papandreou as cruel and dishonest.
        In an interview last year, Dr. Rassias was asked why the book had not been published. Speaking of Mr. Papandreou, she said: "He paid me $90,000 not to publish the book because he was running for office then. He was afraid it would  damage his political chances." She accepted. "I needed the money," she said.
        After becoming an American citizen, Mr. Papandreou joined the Navy for two years of wartime service, much of which he spent as a clerk in the Bethesda Naval Hospital. When World War II ended, he started his career as a lecturer in  economics, first at Harvard, then at the University of Minnesota and Northwestern University. He eventually became a professor and the chairman of the department of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, until he resigned in 1963.
        Meanwhile he had met Margaret Chant, of Elmhurst, Ill., a former journalism student. After both obtained divorces, they were married in Nevada in 1951. They settled down in Berkeley, raised three sons and a daughter and became actively involved in liberal American politics.
        It was with the help of American funds that Mr. Papandreou returned to Greece. Supported by Guggenheim and Fulbright grants, he spent 1959 studying the Greek economy. He went to Athens again in 1961 to set up the Center for Economic Research, this time with financing from the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations.
        He handed back his American citizenship in 1964 to run for Parliament under the auspices of his father, the Prime Minister. Later that year his father named him Deputy Minister of Economics.
        But King Constantine, who distrusted both men, dismissed the Prime Minister and his Cabinet. The period of instability that followed led to a right-wing military coup in 1967, and both Papandreous were arrested. The younger man was kept in solitary confinement for eight months.
        Again the United States loomed large. Pressure from influential Americans, including the economist John Kenneth Galbraith, led the military junta to release Andreas Papandreou and other political prisoners in 1967. But from his exile, first in Sweden, then in Canada, Mr. Papandreou organized a coalition of  opposition groups and denounced the American Government for "complicity" in the  military coup. He remained convinced that Washington quietly supported the 1968-74 military dictatorship.
        In a 1972 article in The New York Times, he wrote that the United States approved prime ministers, interfered in elections and in military promotions and "controlled the Greek Intelligence Service."
        In 1974, when Greece was traumatized by Turkey's invasion of Northern Cyprus, he and many others were convinced once again that Washington knew about the Turkish military plans and could have stopped them. The belief that in general Washington favored Turkey over Greece in their perennial squabbling fed more anti-Americanism.
        The party he founded in 1974, the Panhellenic Socialist Movement, or Pasok, changed Greece's political landscape. It brought him -- and the left -- to power in 1981. Describing himself as a "non-dogmatic Marxist" he quickly introduced social reforms that benefited low-income groups, promoted workers' councils and  farmers' cooperatives, abolished censorship and lowered the voting age to 18; prompted by his American wife, he brought legal equality for women.
        As soon as he took office after the 1981 elections, Mr. Papandreou tweaked the West by opening a Greek Embassy in Cuba and granting diplomatic status to the Palestine Liberation Organization.
        Behind his neutralist gestures, Mr. Papandreou's foreign policy was cautious, almost conservative. He kept Greece in NATO, but refused to take part in some exercises. He preserved Greece's membership in the European Union, thus obtaining important agricultural subsidies. But he also gave Washington what it  had not been able to obtain from his right-wing predecessor: a five-year renewable agreement to retain four military bases and a number of smaller installations on Greek soil.
        At home, many Greeks applauded him because he established civil marriage and  legalized divorce and abortion. But his economic policy remained so full of contradictions that no one quite knew where he stood, and critics said that he squandered the power and the funds he had to modernize the country.
        For all his calls for change and the generous funds from the European Union,  Greece remains the Union's poorest nation. Of the $12 billion the Community lent Mr. Papandreou in the 1980's to modernize, diplomats in Brussels said, 80 percent was spent on consumption and salaries for political featherbedding.
        As opposition leader and as Prime Minister, he lashed out against the corruption of his predecessors, but his own government unraveled in the late 80's in a series of scandals involving fraud and phone-tapping.
        His prestige also suffered because he publicly flaunted his affair with Dimitra Liani, a flight attendant half his age, while he was still married to his wife of 38 years. After humiliating publicity, Margaret Papandreou, the mother of his four adult children, agreed to a divorce in 1989.
        By late 1989, he could no longer withstand the cascade of scandals and he lost the elections. Parliament indicted Mr. Papandreou and ordered him and four  of his former ministers to stand trial on charges including bribery and embezzlement. He repeatedly protested his innocence, saying that American agents were trying to "destabilize" Greece and that his political opponents were out to destroy him politically.
        Mr. Papandreou was narrowly acquitted in 1992, but two of his ministers were  convicted.
        Yet on Oct. 10, 1993, Mr. Papandreou made an astonishing comeback. Even though he had had a heart operation; taken Ms. Liani, his mistress, as his third wife; built a mansion costing more than $1 million, and never quite shaken off corruption charges, he won election for the third time.
        This was perhaps his most remarkable trait, the ability to change position and survive scandal and even indictment without loosing popularity.
        "He was an amazing politician," said Nicholas Gage, author of several books on Greece and a former New York Times correspondent there. "He made ordinary people feel they mattered. Above all he was a master at tapping the mood of the  moment and at adapting his views to that. Basically, he was politically amoral."
        Behind his charm, there was also a man known for being autocratic and wanting total control.
        Epiminondas Zafiropoulos, an opponent and member of the 1989 parliamentary investigation into Mr. Papandreou's conduct, said the leader was essentially "an insecure man" who "wanted to be the master of all the games."
        During his 10 years in office, he modernized Greece, but not enough to pull it from the doldrums. Rather than cutting back the country's enormous and rigid  bureaucracy, he bloated to capture votes. Although Mr. Papandreou inherited a patronage system where a politician is expected to provide a job for every supporter, many economists agree that he did little to change this; some say he  expanded it.
        Some of Mr. Papandreou's supporters believe that his successes and his strong leadership in balancing an unruly society have been unfairly overshadowed by his governments' financial scandals and by troubles involving his wives.
        Although extra-marital affairs are common in Greek politics, Mr. Papandreou broke the rules by publicly displaying his liaison with Ms. Liani. Greek women,  in particular, did not pardon this affront to his wife, a strong voice for social reform and women's rights.
        In 1995, he was relentlessly criticized by supporters and opponents for naming his new wife director of his office and giving her much power over access to him. He caused further outcry by saying he would support her if she had political ambitions.
        The fallout was intense. One result was that his longtime ally, George Kouris, publisher of the newspaper Avriani, staged a smear campaign and regularly published nude pictures of a young Ms. Liani, hoping to undermine the
        Prime Minister and to block Ms. Liani's political career.
        Last year, friends said, even as his health was waning, Mr. Papandreou aspired to become President -- a largely ceremonial post -- when Constantine Karamanlis's term expired in May. But the struggle to succeed Mr. Papandreou as  party and Government leader was so fierce that he reportedly feared a breakup of the party and renounced his aspiration.
        Over the years, he published a number of articles and books on economic and political themes, including the succesful "Democracy at Gunpoint" and "Paternalistic Capitalism."
        In addition to his wife, Ms. Liani, he is survived by his four children from  his second marriage, to Margaret Chant: George, who is Greece's Minister of Education, Sophia, Nicholas and Andreas.
      