
        Tom Killefer, a shrewd financial executive who revived the United States Trust Corporation from a slump in profits as its chairman and chief executive during the late 1970's, died on June 16 of cardiac arrest at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 79.
        Widely regarded as one of the best corporate managers of his day, Mr. Killefer arrived at United States Trust when the bank's image was ailing and profits were on a downward spin. Within two years, he had reversed most of the damage and introduced a livelier atmosphere at the bank. While most bankers wore traditional blue suits, Mr. Killefer would sometimes wear Glen plaid.
        Despite this bit of flair, Mr. Killefer was nonetheless firm. Shortly after  he arrived at United States Trust, he became annoyed at managers who drifted in  15 minutes late to meetings. Mr. Killefer locked the door when a meeting was to  begin, often stranding several executives in the hallway. Tardiness was soon largely eliminated.
        Before joining United States Trust, Mr. Killefer built a distinguished career. President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him vice chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, where he remained in various positions  during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations. He also served as chairman of the board of the Detroit branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
        Mr. Killefer joined the Chrysler Corporation in 1966 as chief financial officer. He was named executive vice president nine years later.
        When he left Chrysler, several companies sought his advice, and he joined United States Trust. He also was chairman of the board of the Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. He was a director of the Pullman Corporation, the Northrop  Corporation and American Natural Resources.
        Mr. Killefer was also a war hero and a scholar. As a Navy pilot during World  War II, he shot down four Japanese Zero fighter planes, earning him the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Naval Air Medal and the Purple Heart. He graduated cum laude from Stanford University in 1938, attended Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar, and went on to get a degree from Harvard Law School.
        In addition to his wife, Carolyn, Mr. Killefer is survived by a son, Wade, of Santa Monica, Calif., and three daughters, Caroline Thayer of Mount Pleasant, Utah; Gail Killefer of San Francisco, and Anne Killefer of Aptos, Calif.
      