
        Walter Guevara Arze, a leader of the Bolivian revolution in 1952, died on Thursday at his home in La Paz, the Bolivian capital. He was 84.
        He suffered a heart attack, his son, Ramiro, said.
        Mr. Guevara served only 85 days as President of Bolivia, but he is considered one of the country's most important modern political figures.
        Along with former Presidents Victor Paz Estenssoro and Hernan Siles Zuazo, Mr. Guevara formed the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement, which was at the forefront of the 1952 revolution.
        The uprising radically changed the country, bringing about land redistribution, universal suffrage, and nationalization of the major tin mines.
        Mr. Guevara served under various Bolivian governments as Foreign Minister, Interior Minister, United Nations delegate and Ambassador to France.
        But he also was forced many times into exile as Bolivia underwent one military dictatorship after another.
        On Aug. 6, 1979, Mr. Guevara was named interim president for one year by the  newly elected Congress when neither of the country's two main political figures, Mr. Paz Estenssoro and Mr. Siles Zuazo, obtained enough votes to win outright.
        Mr. Guevara headed the first democratic government in Bolivia after 11 years  of military regimes, but his term was cut short on Nov. 1, 1979, when troops led by Col. Alberto Natusch Busch seized control in a coup.
        Colonel Natusch proclaimed himself president, but his rule lasted for only 16 days during which workers called general strikes.
        Mr. Guevara was born in Cochabamba, a provincial capital in central Bolivia,  on March 11, 1912. He studied law, sociology and economics and fought in a war against Paraguay in 1936. Like many educated people of his day, Mr. Guevara's experience in the war, which Bolivia lost, steered him toward revolution.
        In 1946, the military government forced Mr. Guevara into exile in Argentina,  where he worked as a paymaster at a meat-packing plant in Buenos Aires.
        In 1951, Mr. Guevara won a Senate seat from Cochabamba, but the military annulled the election. When the revolution began a year later, Mr. Guevara led the rebellion in his hometown. He served as Foreign Minister under Mr. Paz Estenssoro.
        He is survived by his three sons, Walter, Ramiro and Carlos. His first wife,  died just before the 1952 revolution and his second wife, Rosa Elena Rodriquez Rivas, died two years ago.
      