
        Adm. Bernard A. Clarey, a former Vice Chief of Naval Operations who commanded naval forces in the Pacific at the height of the Vietnam War, died on June 15 at Tripler Hospital in Honolulu. He was 84 and lived in Honolulu, where he retired  in 1973 as commander of the Pacific fleet.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson gave Admiral Clarey his fourth star and appointed him Vice Chief of Naval Operations, the No. 2 spot in the Navy's uniformed hierarchy. But when Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt became Chief of Naval Operations two years later, he chose his own closest aides and Admiral Clarey assumed the Pacific command in Hawaii.
        It was a familiar duty station for Admiral Clarey, who had survived the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, as executive officer on the submarine Dolphin. In December 1970, he took charge of the entire Pacific fleet, including its vessels off Vietnam and air operations over North Vietnam.
        The assignment put him in a sensitive position. American military strength in the war had peaked at nearly 550,000 in 1969, the nation was racked by mass demonstrations, and peace negotiations in Paris were proceeding fitfully despite the raids on the North. The convulsions at home were attended by racial conflict in the Pacific fleet, prompting him to admonish his unit commanders to be more sensitive toward minority grievances.
        Bernard Ambrose Clarey was born in Oskaloosa, Iowa, and graduated from the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis in 1934. He later trained at the Submarine School in New London, Conn.
        After Pearl Harbor, he went on a war patrol in the Marshall Islands aboard the Dolphin. Rising in rank and command, he continued on patrol duty in various  parts of the Pacific and was one of the early commanders in the highly damaging  forays against Japanese shipping late in the war. He won three Navy Crosses for  valor.
        He was back in combat in the Korean War as executive officer on the heavy cruiser Helena, earning a Bronze Star. Further duty tours took him to Washington, back to Pearl Harbor, and to Norfolk, Va., where he helped plan training exercises for NATO forces and took part in high-level conferences.
        Recalled to the Pentagon in 1967, he served as Director of Navy Program Planning and Budgeting in the Office of Chief of Naval Operations until his appointment as Vice Chief the next year.
        After his retirement from the Navy, he worked as vice president of the Bank of Hawaii for Pacific Rim operations.
        Admiral Clarey is survived by his wife of 59 years, Jean Scott Clarey; two sons, Rear Adm. Stephen S. Clarey, retired, of Coronado, Calif., and Michael O.  Clarey of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a brother, William A., of Peoria, Ill.; a sister, Janice Bracken of Paramus, N.J.; five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      