
        Pasquale De Santis, the Italian cinematographer who won an Academy Award in 1968 for his work on Franco Zeffirelli's film version of "Romeo and Juliet," died on Sunday in Ukraine. He was 69.
        Mr. De Santis, an animated, mustachioed man known to friends as Pasqualino, suffered a heart attack while working on location in Lviv with his longtime friend and collaborator, the director Francesco Rosi, on a film with John Turturro based on the autobiographical novel "The Truce," by the Holocaust survivor Primo Levi.
        A student in the 1940's at the Center for Experimental Cinematography in Rome, Mr. De Santis learned the practical side of his craft in the neorealism that flourished in postwar Italy. He was an assistant to Gianni Di Venanzo, a director of photography who carried black and white film to a high standard with directors like Federico Fellini and Vittorio De Sica. In 1965, when illness forced Mr. Di Venanzo to abandon the set of Mr. Rosi's "Moment of Truth," Mr. De Santis succeeded him as director of photography; when Mr. Di Venanzo died the following year, Mr. De Santis succeeded his teacher on "The Honey Pot," by Joseph Mankiewicz.
        Known above all as a master of interior shots, Mr. De Santis also learned to  meet the needs of neorealist directors for suggestive external shots to highlight the complex personalities in their films. In addition to Mr. Zeffirelli's "Romeo and Juliet," Mr. De Santis numbered among his more successful films "Death in Venice" (1971), by the director Lucchino Visconti, and "Lucky Luciano" (1973), directed by Mr. Rosi.
        Mr. De Santis was born in 1927 in Fondi, south of Rome. He photographed his first film, "Under the Olive Tree" (1950), in collaboration with his older brother, the director Giuseppe De Santis. He was widely regarded as a master of  creating mood through the use of the camera.
        In recent years, he also worked in television and theater. His sets for the 1992 stage version of the novel "La Sigorina Papillon" by the writer Stefano Benni were acclaimed.
      