
        Thomas Howard Wolf, a photo journalist and documentary maker for ABC News and the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at a hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 80 and lived in Annapolis.
        Mr. Wolf, seasoned in war correspondence in London and documentary production at CBS News, became widely known in his 18 years at ABC directing network documentary programs. As fate would have it, he had reported for a job interview with ABC the day of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, on Nov. 22, 1962.
        Elmer W. Lower, the president of ABC News, hired him on the spot an hour after the event and promptly put him to work on the funeral coverage and the succession of Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. Wolf remained to oversee documentaries at ABC until he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65 in 1981.
        He became the network's vice president for documentary production years before the debut of prime-time television journals.
        One memorable contribution was a four-hour documentary on Africa, which cost  an unheard-of $2 million and for which he served as associate producer and writer. With James Fleming as the executive producer, the documentary took two years to film and filled an entire evening with images of the continent. It also set audience records.
        After he left ABC News, Mr. Wolf joined the Smithsonian when it was just entering television. He worked for the institution as a documentary consultant for eight years, then as a freelance writer, editor and television producer.
        Mr. Wolf, who was born in New York City, graduated from Princeton in 1937. He worked as a trainee at The New York Post and Time magazine before he was engaged in 1940 for his first steady job by the Newspaper Enterprise Association, a Scripps-Howard feature syndicate.
        He was in England and France from 1943 until after the war, reporting for the syndicate and doubling as coordinator of the still-picture pool that provided war coverage for home consumption.
        He reported on the invasion of Normandy, the liberation of Paris, the Battle  of the Bulge, the crossing of the Rhine and the surrender of the German high command at Rheims.
        He later worked at Pathe News, which produced weekly newsreels for movie houses. He had his own company for a time, supplying raw film for CBS news programs like "See It Now," with Edward R. Morrow. Before moving to ABC, he worked at CBS producing a two-hour early-morning program for the network.
        Mr. Wolf is survived by his wife, Nicole Hargrove Wolf; seven daughters, Judy Rose of Beverly Hills, Calif., Seie Brigham of Santa Fe, N.M., Betsy Sutton of Lexington, Mass., Dodie Hussie of Queens, N.Y., Karen Fazekas and Celia Krebs of Annapolis, and Andrea Howe of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, James, of Naples, Fla.; a sister, Anne Lando of Fort Bragg, Calif.; and 10 grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 29, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Thomas Howard Wolf, a photojournalist and documentary maker, misstated the date of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, the day Mr. Wolf went to work for ABC. It was Nov. 22, 1963, not  1962.
      