
        Ronald P. Lynch, a mutual-fund executive who led a successful industry campaign to curb improper trading practices, died at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 60.
        The cause was prostate cancer, according to his investment management firm, Lord, Abbett & Company.
        Mr. Lynch, a resident of Greenwich, spent most of his career at Lord, Abbett, an old-line New York money management firm. He started there in 1965 as  regional manager of the San Francisco office and rose to become managing partner in 1983.
        He gained public stature afterward, as chairman of the Investment Company Institute, the trade association for the mutual fund industry. There, in 1994, he won praise for his aggressive response to a widely publicized industry scandal.
        As a booming stock market filled the coffers of mutual funds, some portfolio  managers began aggressively trading stocks for their own accounts. In several cases, the managers had access to offerings not available to their clients.
        Industry critics said these arrangements ended up hurting owners of mutual funds, because portfolio managers were making decisions based on self-interest.
        Facing negative publicity, Mr. Lynch convened an industry panel, which conducted an investigation and recommended strict limits on the trading that portfolio managers could do for themselves. The Securities and Exchange Commission praised Mr. Lynch's actions, and Fund Action, a trade publication, named him its fund leader of 1994.
        According to the magazine, Mr. Lynch "underscored the industry's dedication to high ethical standards and fiduciary responsibility."
        He was a staunch supporter of Cornell University, from which he graduated in  1958 with a bachelor's degree in agriculture. In addition to serving on several  boards at Cornell and its medical center, he was a prolific fund raiser. As chairman of the Major Gifts Committee, he oversaw the university's recently completed five-year fund-raising campaign, which raised $1.5 billion, $250 million more than its goal. Mr. Lynch donated one of the largest individual gifts -- $5 million -- to endow a deanship at the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences.
        A native of New York City, Mr. Lynch is survived by his wife, Susan, of Greenwich; three sons, Ronald P. Jr., of San Francisco, Charles R., of Dublin, Ohio, and Andrew E., of Greenwich, and a grandson.
      