
        Julius Posener, an architect, critic and teacher who was an active figure in  the European Modernist movement for much of the 20th century, died on Monday at  his home in Berlin. He was 91.
        Mr. Posener studied architecture at the Technische Hochschule Berlin in the 1920's but designed relatively few buildings himself. Uncomfortable with the narrow focus of so many modern architects, he came quickly to see his primary role as one of interpreter and teacher of the developing modern movement. His focus was more open-minded and humanistic than that of many Modernists, and in his writings and teaching he sought to connect architecture to the quality of life by looking as deeply into political, economic and social concerns as into purely esthetic ones.
        He was a protege and later a biographer of Hans Poelzig, the great German Expressionist architect, though he was never associated entirely with that school, or even solely with German architecture. He lived and worked in Paris, Jerusalem, London, Berlin and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia at various points in his career, which continued actively until the end of his life. Last year he won the Heinrich Mann Literary Prize in Germany for his final book, "What Architecture Can Be -- Newer Essays," published by Birkhauser in Germany.
        Julius Posener was born in Berlin on Nov. 4, 1904, into a wealthy and cultivated Jewish family. He moved to Paris in 1929 and became the first paid employee of L'Architecture d'Aujourd'hui (Architecture Today), the celebrated French journal, when it began publication in 1930. Later he returned briefly to Germany but, uncomfortable with growing anti-Semitism, began a 28-year exile  that took him back to Paris, to Jerusalem, to London and to Kuala Lumpur, where  he founded an architecture school in 1956.
        In 1961 Mr. Posener, on the verge of moving permanently to Haifa, instead returned to Berlin, where he took the city's own architectural history as a subject, living through the rise and fall of the Berlin wall and writing numerous essays and books on the city's development and becoming a prominent civic advocate of historic preservation.
        He is survived by his second wife, Margarete, and by three children, Alan and Ben, of Berlin, and Jill, of San Francisco.
      