
        Dr. Robert H. Ebert, the longtime dean of the Harvard Medical School and founder of the nation's first academic health maintenance organization, died on  Monday in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Wayland, Mass.
        The cause was metastatic cancer, medical school officials said.
        As the Jackson Professor of Clinical Medicine at the medical school and then as dean, Dr. Ebert was credited with guiding the school through turbulent times  in the 1960's and 1970's, when his students were diverted by protests against the Vietnam War and medical schools across the country begin to perceive the need for corporate-supported research.
        His contribution to the country's health care system lay in his awareness of  where health care was going in the 1960's and what adjustments would have to be  made, said Nathan M. Pusey, the Harvard president who appointed Dr. Ebert as dean. He was particularly concerned, Mr. Pusey said, about whether health maintenance organizations, or H.M.O.'s, would sufficiently contribute to the costs of medical research and of training doctors.
        Dr. Ebert was appointed dean in 1965, and Harvard's H.M.O., the Harvard Community Health Plan, was the outgrowth of his search for ways to provide health care at lower costs to patients and in a system that would concentrate at the outset on keeping people healthy in addition to treating them when they became sick.
        In 1969, he set up the community health plan, a nonprofit corporation, persuaded Harvard to sponsor it and lend it money, and raised money from philanthropic foundations devoted to medical causes. The corporation, the precursor to the H.M.O.'s of today, set up shop in Kenmore Square, near the medical school, and prepared to greet an expected 10,000 patients. But only 88 came.
        Nonetheless, the plan rapidly picked up patients. It merged last year with Pilgrim Health Care and has 1.1 million members in Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont. Experts in health care generally recognize  the program, now called Harvard-Pilgrim Health Care, as providing some of the best care of any H.M.O.  in the country.
        Dr. Ebert remained on the Harvard-Pilgrim board until his death. Manuel M. Ferris, the corporation's chief executive, said he was largely responsible for the organization's forming a foundation that would not only devote a percentage  of its annual surplus to financing teaching and research programs but also to organizing community projects to reduce violence and teen-age pregnancy and dispense AIDS information.
        In recent years, Harvard-Pilgrim has set aside an annual average of about $6  million, Mr. Ferris said.
        Dr. Ebert actively supported his medical students as they protested the Vietnam War, both on and off campus, and he took part in antiwar rallies, too, even though he was trying to build support for the medical school at the same time among corporate executives who supported the war. Critics of corporate-sponsored research worried that such work might be skewed from pure medical research, but Dr. Ebert endorsed the partnership and helped expand it.
        He received a bachelor of science degree from the University of Chicago in 1936, studied at Oxford University in England as a Rhodes Scholar and then returned to Chicago to earn his medical degree in 1942.
        As a Marine Corps doctor in World War II, he was one of the American medics who went into Nagasaki to treat radiation sickness and related illnesses among the residents after the United States dropped an atomic bomb on the city.
        Later at Western Reserve University, now Case Western, in Cleveland, he helped overhaul the curriculum of American medical schools. Under the changes, first-year students were required to see sick patients in addition to their theoretical training, and case studies were introduced into what had been more abstract instruction.
        After retiring from Harvard, he became the president of the Milbank Memorial  Fund, a foundation that supports health projects. He started a program there to  provide medical school faculty fellowships for training and research in the causes and control of epidemics.
        Survivors include his wife, Barbara; two sons, John and Thomas; a daughter, Elizabeth S. Schmidt-Nowara; a brother, Richard V. Ebert of Roland, Ariz., and five grandchildren. His first wife, Emily, died in 1986.
      