
        William F. Storke, a producer of television drama whose programming was regarded as a cultural oasis in commercial television, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        A native of Rochester who grew up in California and graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, Mr. Storke, who once wanted to be an actor, began his work in television just as it was beginning its transformation  from a scientific oddity to a cultural juggernaut.
        Starting as a page at NBC in 1948, he rose through the ranks during television's so-called Golden Age of live television dramas in the 1950's.
        It was a measure of Mr. Storke's commitment to high quality in programming that at his urging NBC outbid Broadway producers in 1966 for the right to produce a new play, "Flesh and Blood," by an acclaimed playwright, William Hanley. At the time, NBC's $112,500 purchase price was described as the highest  amount an author had received from television for a single work and four times as much as the network's chief rival, CBS, had offered for an original play.
        In a reflection of television's changing tastes, Mr. Storke, who was named vice president for programming administration in 1964, was given the title vice  president for special programming in 1968.
        What had once been the heart of television had become an appendage, and Mr. Storke's drama department was seen as a lonely outpost of high culture. Even so, in a medium increasingly dominated by sitcoms and shoot-'em-ups, Mr. Storke persisted, presiding over the dawn of the television movie, supervising the production of such acclaimed examples as "Search for the Nile," Arthur Miller's  "Price" and Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" with Lawrence Olivier,  and winning two Peabody awards. Mr. Storke commissioned Gian Carlo Menotti to write a television opera in 1979. Before Mr. Menotti began work, Mr. Storke was  ousted in one of NBC's periodic management shake-ups, and the opera was never written.
        The man who had been called television's "king of culture" remained a force in television production, however. First as president of the Claridge Group, the American arm of the Britain's Trident Television, later as executive vice president of Entertainment Partners and eventually as head of Storke Enterprises, he produced such critical successes as "Oliver Twist" (1982), "A Christmas Carol" (1984), "The Old Man and the Sea" (1984), "The Last Days of Patton" (1985), "The Ted Kennedy Story" (1986) and "A Special Friendship" (1986).
        In his last project, Mr. Storke followed his interest back to its Hollywood source. His family said he had been working on a deal for a remake of Hemingway's "For Whom the Bell Tolls," a film he planned not for television but  for the movies.
        Mr. Storke is survived by his wife, Georgette Mackenzie; a son, William, also of Manhattan; two children from a previous marriage to the actress Angela Thornton: a son, Adam, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Victoria Mattarelli of Milan, and two grandchildren.
      