
        U San Yu, who was President of Myanmar -- formerly Burma -- from 1981 to 1988, died on Sunday in a military hospital in Yangon. He was 78 and lived near  the city.
        The cause of death was not certain but Reuters reported that he had a heart ailment.
        Mr. San Yu was a longtime army officer and a faithful co-worker of U Ne Win, who commanded Mr. San Yu's old army unit and went on to rule Myanmar, under various titles, for more than two decades after he seized power in a coup in 1962.
        Mr. Ne Win stifled democracy in Myanmar, mismanaged the economy and fostered  the country's international isolation.
        He was President and in ill health in 1981, when Mr. San Yu succeeded him, assuming the ceremonial duties of the presidency. Mr. San Yu was thought to have little power until 1985, when Mr. Ne Win, in his key post of chairman of the ruling Burma Socialist Program Party, named him deputy chairman and in effect his heir apparent.
        As President, Mr. San Yu presided over a repressive military Government that  imprisoned its opponents and outlawed trade unions.
        Early in 1988, despite violent countermeasures by the police, anti-Government rioting extended to the heart of Yangon, the Burmese capital formerly known as Rangoon. In July, Mr. Ne Win, Mr. San Yu and other leaders resigned from state and party posts but were believed to have remained in control. But economic problems worsened, demonstrations for democracy continued, and the Government's  grip on power began to slip.
        Late that year, the military restored order in a violent crackdown and imposed martial law. Mr. Ne Win and his associates remained a power behind the scenes.
        Mr. San Yu was born in Prome, 150 miles northwest of Yangon, studied medicine in Yangon and became an army officer in 1942 and a brigadier and close confidant of Mr. Ne Win. In the 1960's and 1970's, Mr. San Yu served in Cabinet posts and  as Chief of the General Staff.
        He is survived by his wife and four children.
      