
        Peter Glenville, a director who won accolades for his staging of plays in the West End of London as well as on Broadway, died on Monday at a friend's home in  Manhattan, while on a visit from his home in San Miguel, Mexico. He was 82.
        Mr. Glenville, who was also a producer and an actor, achieved his primary renown in theater, but he was also active in film and television.
        Working with some of the finest playwrights and actors in theater, Mr. Glenville made his mark on both sides of the Atlantic in the 1940's and 50's with his direction of such productions as "The Browning Version," written by Terence Rattigan and starring Maurice Evans and Edna Best; "The Prisoner," with  Alec Guinness"; "The Innocents," with Beatrice Straight; "Romeo and Juliet," with Olivia de Havilland; "Separate Tables," with Margaret Leighton and Eric Portman, and Feydeau's "Hotel Paradiso," with Bert Lahr and Angela Lansbury.
        His stagings also included noteworthy productions of Jean Anouilh's "Becket"  and the musical "Take Me Along," as well as William Saroyan's "Time of Your Life," Aldous Huxley's "Gioconda Smile," Sartre's "Crime Passionelle," Tennessee Williams's "Summer and Smoke" and Graham Greene's "Living Room."
        An articulate interpreter of the director's art, Mr. Glenville once observed: "It's occasionally said of a director, by way of a compliment, that the unmistakable signature of his style is on the production. But I think that such  praise can lead to a misconception of what I personally consider to be the proper function of a director. I believe that a director should, like a conductor, be an interpreter of the particular world of each playwright with whom he works."
        "On occasion, the style of the play should call for the most delicate and unobtrusive staging," he added. "Sometimes other plays allow for broad and colorful strokes of direction, involving all the tricks that theater magic can provide."
        On the screen, Mr. Glenville's credits included "The Prisoner," in 1955, with Mr. Guinness recreating his stage role as a Roman Catholic cardinal accused of treason in a police state; "Summer and Smoke," in 1961, with Geraldine Page and  Laurence Harvey; "Becket," in 1964, with Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole, and Graham Greene's "Comedians," in 1967, with Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Mr. Guinness and Peter Ustinov.
        "Cinema," Mr. Glenville once said, "is a literature of images. Theater is a literature of ideas."
        Words, he said, generate the power of plays, "because physical action is limited by the size of the stage, and the separation between actors and the audience rules out subtleties of expression. In the theater, every word, every gesture must be projected, exaggerated. If you go 20 seconds without dialogue on the stage, you've had it."
        By contrast, he said: "The movie camera is visual. Images become more dramatic than words." But he cautioned there was a danger of too much or too little camera ingenuity.
        "I believe it is essential to keep one's eye on the whole story in terms of the relative importance of dialogue, actions and situation," he said. "A fundamental difference is that in telling a story with the camera, it is possible through the close-up to achieve intimacy with the audience, to show inner thought processes, instead of projecting them as is necessary in the theater."
        Mr. Glenville was born into a theatrical family in London in 1913. His grandmother Mary Glenville, often appeared at the Abbey Theater in Dublin. His parents, Shaun Glenville and Mary Ward, were eminent mimes. He was active in theater as an undergraduate at Christ Church at Oxford, where he starred in a memorable "Hamlet."
        In later years, it was noted that Mr. Glenville was as handsome as any of the leading men he directed, and he acted on the London stage in such productions as "The Alchemist," "Richard III" and "Hamlet."
        He came to prominence as a director by staging eight productions for the Old  Vic in the 1940's and made his directing debut in the United States with "The Browning Version" in 1949.
        No immediate family members survive.
      