
        Thomas F. X. Smith, a former Mayor of Jersey City who helped revive the city's downtown area but lost in the Democratic primary when he made a bid for Governor in 1981, died on Friday at his home in Jersey City. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Carol Smith.
        Mr. Smith, who grew up in a cold-water flat near the Jersey City waterfront, was elected Mayor in 1977, after serving eight years as the city clerk. During his term, he wrote "The Powerticians," a history of Hudson County politics peppered with his own recollections.
        Among his accomplishments as Mayor was the Montgomery Gateway Renewal Project, which created low-income housing in a blighted neighborhood between City Hall and the New Jersey Turnpike. One of the largest Federally subsidized projects ever undertaken in New Jersey, it helped bring about a resurgence of Jersey City's downtown area in the 1980's.
        Known for his scrappiness, Mr. Smith once confronted President Jimmy Carter with demands for more urban aid, an encounter that inspired White House aides to call him "the mouth that roared." In another well-known incident, he threatened  to shut off power and water to the Statue of Liberty if ferry service to Jersey  City was dropped.
        He also adopted a stray dog that he found wounded near the waterfront, naming it Henry Hudson and later casting it in a commercial for his gubernatorial campaign.
        Mr. Smith left office in 1981 to run for Governor, hoping that the large number of former Hudson County residents spread around the state would insure his victory. He lost the Democratic primary and returned to the city clerk job,  leaving in 1989. Most recently, he served as deputy executive director of the Hudson County Improvement Authority.
        In 1983, he tried unsuccessfully for the position of Hudson County executive. He ran for Mayor again in 1989 but lost to Gerald McCann, who was later convicted of bank fraud and tax evasion.
        The city administration was mired in a corruption scandal in Mr. Smith's first term as clerk, when Mayor Thomas J. Whelan and seven other officials were  convicted of operating a multimillion-dollar kickback scheme. But Mr. Smith was  not implicated in the scandal.
        Mr. Smith graduated from St. Peter's College, where he studied English. He also received a master's degree in educational psychology from Fordham University. In the early 1960's, he served as director of placement at St. Peter's, helping college seniors find jobs. Later, for several years he was a vice president of Hudson County Community College.
        A star basketball player at St. Peter's, Mr. Smith played briefly for the New York Knicks in 1951. While he was Mayor, he fought in an exhibition boxing match against Muhammed Ali in a benefit for Jersey City Medical Center. He was recognized by the St. Peter's Hall of Fame and the Hudson County Sports Hall of  Fame.
        Along with his daughter Carol, Mr. Smith is survived by another daughter, Regina Silver of Toms River, and two sisters, Florence Smith of Jersey City and  Regina Quinn of Brick.
      