
        Cuthbert C. Hurd, a computer scientist and entrepreneur who was instrumental  in helping the International Business Machines Corporation develop its first general-purpose computer, died on May 22 at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 85.
        Dr. Hurd was a mathematician at the Atomic Energy Commission laboratory in Oak Ridge, Tenn., when he joined I.B.M. in 1949 as its director of applied science. A year later, after the outbreak of the Korean War, he was one of two people assigned to determine how I.B.M. could contribute to the war effort.
        Making a bold proposal, Dr. Hurd and his partner, James Birkenstock, recommended that the company design and build a general-purpose computer, bearing the heavy expense itself so that I.B.M. would own the patents. The new machine, the I.B.M. 701, cost $3 million to develop and was introduced with great fanfare in 1952, putting I.B.M. on the path to becoming the dominant force in the computer industry.
        Dr. Hurd went on to help develop several other I.B.M. computers and served as a consultant to the company for years after leaving in 1962 to become chairman of the board of the Computer Usage Company, the first independent computer software company. He was later appointed chairman of the Picodyne Corporation, which specialized in educational software, and in 1984 he co-founded Quintus Computer Systems, which was devoted to the commercialization of artificial intelligence. At the time of his death, he was the chief scientist of Northpoint Software Ventures Inc., a developer of risk management software.
        Born in Estherville, Iowa, Dr. Hurd graduated from Drake University in 1932 and received a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Illinois in 1936.
        He is survived by his wife, Bettie, also of Portola Valley; a son, Steven Hurd of Everett. Wash.; four daughters, Diana Shaper of Pleasanton, Calif., Susan Hagemann of Rio Dell, Calif., Elizabeth Nowicki of Los Altos, Calif., and  Victoria Lukanovich of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      