
        Martin Ormandy, a cellist who played for 36 years with the New York Philharmonic and then became a fixture in many of New York's freelance orchestras for another three decades, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Ormandy played regularly with the New York Chamber Symphony, the Mostly Mozart Orchestra, the New York Pops and the orchestra of the New York Choral Society. He was easy to spot: at a time when most freelancers were under 40, Mr. Ormandy took pride in his status as the oldest working orchestral musician in the United States. Onstage, he projected an air of easygoing collegiality, and was often seen warming up at his seat long before the other cellists. He also bore an uncanny resemblance to his older brother, the conductor Eugene Ormandy,  who died in 1985.
        Mr. Ormandy was born in Budapest on March 6, 1901. By the time he was 12 he  had become a good enough cellist to have several older pupils, and when he was 18 he became the principal cellist at the Budapest Opera. His parents, however,  insisted that he prepare for a career besides music, so during his years as a student at the Franz Liszt Conservatory, he also enrolled at a university, where he studied mathematics and medicine.
        In 1921, he followed his brother Eugene to New York, by way of Luxembourg, and took a job at the Capitol Theater, where Eugene was a violinist. He freelanced in theater and radio orchestras, playing both cello and saxophone until 1929, when Arturo Toscanini offered him a position in the New York Philharmonic. He remained with the orchestra until 1965.
        During his Philharmonic years and for many years afterward, Mr. Ormandy was an enthusiastic chamber music player. He was a member of the New York Philharmonic Chamber Ensemble and the Corigliano Quartet, and he had his own trio and quartet, which were resident ensembles at Hunter College. He occasionally filled in at the Metropolitan Opera, where he once performed in costume as part of a stage ensemble for a production of Mozart's "Don Giovanni."
        He barely cut back on his performing engagements, even after he turned 90, and had signed on to play at the Mostly Mozart Festival this summer. His last performance was with the New York Pops on May 7.
        Mr. Ormandy is survived by his brother Laszlo Ormandy, of Falls Church, Va.;  two daughters, Dolores Ormandy Newmand and Roberta Klein, both of New York, and  four granddaughters, Lanie Klein, Melissa Newman and Christina Newman, all of New York, and Belinda Donnelly of Moscow.
      