
        Earl Philip Benditt, a pathologist known for his research on hardening of the arteries and other diseases, died on Monday at his home in Seattle. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from cardiovascular disease, according to the University of Washington, where he had served as chairman of the department of pathology in the School of Medicine.
        Dr. Benditt, a specialist in blood vessel and artery diseases, was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1976. Within his field, he showed remarkable breadth in his interests, as evidenced by the approximately 250 published papers bearing his name. But his research on three topics stood out: mast cells, found in connective and other body tissues; the deposits of waxy protein known as amyloid, and arteriosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries.
        The existence of amyloid had been known for a century before Dr. Benditt and  a few colleagues focused for the first time in the 1970's on its role in the aging process.
        With a strong background in chemistry, Dr. Benditt helped develop techniques  of experimental pathology that allowed researchers to explore the origins of diseases like Alzheimer's, a degenerative disease of the brain, and heart disorders. He contributed to histochemistry, the study of the chemical components of cells and tissues, and carried out research in the areas of cell injury, inflammation and wound healing.
        He published a paper in 1973 showing that atherosclerotic plaques might originate from single abnormal cells in the arterial wall, a proposition known to his colleagues as the monoclonal hypothesis. Among other things it pointed to similarities between the formation of hardened plaques in an artery and the growth of tumors elsewhere in the body.
        He was born in Philadelphia, graduated from Swarthmore College in 1937 and from Harvard Medical School four years later. From 1944 to 1957, he rose from instructor to associate professor of pathology at the University of Chicago. He  joined the University of Washington in Seattle in 1957 as a professor of pathology and the department chairman. He reached emeritus status in 1987.
        Dr. Benditt is survived by his wife of 51 years, Marcella; four sons, John, of Washington, D.C., Alan, of New York City, Joshua, of Seattle, and Charles, of Portland, Ore.; a sister, Eleanor Lehrer of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a brother, Harold of Bala-Cynwyd, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      