
        Dr. George Davis Snell, an authority on genetics and tissue transplantation who shared a Nobel Prize in 1980 for milestone research that helped make human organ transplants possible, died on Thursday at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 92.
        Dr. Snell, with Dr. Baruj Benacerraf and Dr. Jean Dausset, received the award in medicine or physiology for work performed over several decades that provided  a theoretical basis for tissue transplants.
        Dr. Snell was credited with coining the term "histocompatibility," from the  Greek "histos," meaning web or loom, and, by extension, tissue. The three Nobel  winners also helped explain why some people are more disposed than others to autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis and why some tissue transplants are rejected while others are accepted.
        In bestowing the Nobel Prize, the Karolinska Institute in Sweden cited Dr. Snell for having discovered in mice "the genetic factors that determine the possibilities of transplanting tissue from one individual to another." And, it added, "with Snell's fundamental discoveries came the birth of transplantation immunology."
        Dr. Snell, the oldest of the three, worked at the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, one of the world's leading centers for genetic research. He retired in 1973 as senior staff scientist emeritus.
        The Swedish institute lauded the three for paving the way to the discovery of the complex of antigens, called H.L.A.'s (for human leucocyte antigen), that are involved in the histocompatibility system.
        Antigens are proteins that prompt the production of specific disease-fighting compounds called antibodies. Human white blood cells, or leucocytes, have different H.L.A.'s on their surface that provide a molecular blueprint for proteins that help the immune system distinguish between the body's own cells and invaders.
        Humans inherit different H.L.A. types, much as they have different blood types. The more of these antigens they share, the more likely a tissue transplant is to survive.
        These antigens were also linked to several disorders, like forms of arthritis, bowel problems, skin conditions, complications of infections, and neurological and thyroid maladies. Moreover, the research opened a broad range of biomedical applications.
        "Knowledge of the genetic regulation of the body's immune response," the citation read, "makes it possible to explain why different individuals have different capabilities of defending themselves against infections and why a cancer cell is eliminated in some cases and enabled to grow into a tumor in others."
        George Snell was born in Bradford, Mass., a scion of a long line of New Englanders. He pursued his interests in science and mathematics at Dartmouth College, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1926, and earned M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in science at Harvard University in 1928 and 1930.
        He chose Harvard to work with William Ernest Castle, a biologist and one of the first Americans to study genetic inheritance in mammals according to Mendelian principles. He started his academic career as an instructor in zoology at Dartmouth and Brown University and joined the Jackson Laboratory in 1935 as a research associate.
        He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1952, and to the National Academy of Sciences in 1970.
        Dr. Snell, sometimes referred to as the "father of immunogenetics," witnessed the surge of genetics from hopeful experimentation into the formidable science it has become. In the 1940's and 1950's, he later recalled, he could count on his fingers the number of people who understood the work he was doing in transplantation immunology.
        Winning the Nobel Prize, at age 76, was sprung on him as a surprise during a  conference call with his sons. He had "not the slightest idea," he said, that he was even being considered for it. In fact, he was the last in the family to know when the clan gathered that day to share the news with him.
        After his retirement, he spent much of his time writing on science, philosophy and ethics.
        Dr. Snell is survived by his two sons, Thomas C., of Aptos, Calif., and Roy C., of South Woodstock, Vt.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandson. His wife of 56 years, Rhoda Carson Snell, died two years ago.
      