
        Jerry Plotkin, the only nongovernment worker among 52 Americans held hostage  for 444 days in the United States Embassy in Iran, died on Thursday in a San Fernando Valley hospital. He was 62.
        Mr. Plotkin, who had had a heart transplant about six years ago, had been ill for the last few months and was taken to the hospital on Thursday night, said a  friend, Alex Paen.
        Mr. Plotkin and 51 other Americans were held hostage after Iranian militants stormed the embassy in Teheran on Nov. 4, 1979. They were released on Jan. 20, 1981, shortly after Ronald Reagan was sworn in as President.
        Mr. Plotkin was also one of eight of the former hostages who signed a letter  in 1991 demanding that Congress investigate accusations that the Reagan-Bush campaign delayed their release in 1980.
        A bipartisan Congressional task force later cleared the campaign, saying that it found no credible evidence that the campaign tried to manipulate the crisis to defeat President Jimmy Carter.
        Mr. Paen got to know Mr. Plotkin while covering the crisis as a radio and television reporter.
        "He was the classic case of the person being in the wrong place at the wrong  time," Mr. Paen said. "He had traveled outside the United States for the first time on a business venture."
        During three visits to Teheran, Mr. Paen spoke to Mr. Plotkin by telephone, and he once arranged to receive an audiotaped message. Mr. Plotkin later said his captors trained a gun on him during each of the conversations.
        Mr. Paen said Mr. Plotkin found positive things in his imprisonment. "He always used to tell me it made him a better American," Mr. Paen said. "Very patriotic. He was very proud that he never gave in to the militants."
        Mr. Plotkin filed a $60 million libel lawsuit over an article published by The Los Angeles Daily News on the day after his release. The article quoted unnamed law-enforcement personnel as saying that Mr. Plotkin had been under police investigation before he went to Iran and that Federal agents were to question him on whether there had been "any inkling Mr. Plotkin was involved in  drugs in Iran."
        Police and the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration later denied that Mr.  Plotkin was under investigation. A judge ruled that Mr. Plotkin was not a public figure at the time the article was published. In 1988, Mr. Plotkin settled the suit for an undisclosed amount.
        Mr. Plotkin is survived by his wife, Debbie, and several children.
      