
        Dr. Roland W. Force, who directed the Museum of the American Indian, one of the world's foremost collections of Indian artifacts, when it moved from a cramped upper Manhattan building to become a national museum run by the Smithsonian Institution, died on May 19 at the Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 71 and a resident of Honolulu.
        The cause was a stroke, said his wife of 46 years, Dr. Maryanne Tefft, a social scientist.
        Dr. Force was named director of the museum in 1977 after 14 years as head of the Bishop Museum in Honolulu. He was called to New York to assess a deeply troubled cultural treasure tucked into a shoe box of a building, part of Audubon Terrace, at Broadway and 155th Street in Manhattan.
        Its collection of more than one million objects was enviable in scope and variety. It included spirit masks, Aztec log drums and Brazilian feather art. The artifacts dated back as far as 9,000 B.C.
        The overarching problem, aside from money, was that visitors could never see  more than 4 percent of the collection at any time. The rest was stored in a Bronx warehouse.
        In 1975, the previous director and trustees resigned in a bitter dispute over the disposal of artifacts and record-keeping. Dr. Force went to work with a new  16-member board that included 6 trustees of American Indian ancestry, and he began the work of steadying the museum's course, successfully completing a court-ordered inventory.
        From the start, he envisioned a two-part institution, a large museum with a research center. Early on he pursued the Alexander Hamilton United States Custom House on Bowling Green, a seven-story architectural gem.
        But on the road from Audubon Terrace to the Battery, Dr. Force and his allies considered a deal with the American Museum of Natural History, offers from Dallas and Las Vegas, Nev., and transactions with Congress, which authorizes the use of Federal property. The museum dealt with the concerns of city officials who wanted to keep the collection in New York, but who, Dr. Force felt, gave it  too low a priority.
        A Natural History merger fell through when he and his trustees concluded that they were not being offered enough room for the collection. In 1985, with the collection's fate in the balance, Dr. Force took Mayor Edward I. Koch and State  Attorney General Robert Abrams on a tour of the acres of treasures in the Bronx  warehouse.
        They agreed that the museum should stay in New York, and Dr. Force and the trustees went in pursuit of the 1907 Beaux Arts building on the Battery, vacant  since Customs moved out in 1973. By 1987 they had won over its landlord, the General Services Administration. The upshot was the National Museum of the American Indian.
        The George Gustave Heye Center in the Custom House opened in 1994, named for  a mining engineer who founded the museum in 1916. A second component, the Cultural Resources Center at Suitland, Md., is scheduled for completion in 1998, and the Smithsonian's date for a national museum on the Washington Mall is 2002. When the Smithsonian took charge in 1990, Dr. Force was succeeded by W. Richard  West Jr., the present director.
        Dr. Force was born in Omaha and graduated from Stanford University, from which he received master's degrees in education and anthropology along with his  Ph.D.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his father, Richard, of Tehachapi, Calif.
      