
        Thomas F. Connolly, a three-star admiral who sacrificed his chance for a fourth star, clearing the way for his namesake, the F-14 Tomcat, died on May 24  at a hospital near his home in Holland, Mich. He was 86.
        The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Margaret.
        Almost 25 years have passed since he retired as a Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, and it is a safe bet that few of today's carrier pilots could place  the name Connolly in the pantheon of Naval heroes.
        After all, as the Navy's top guns, the ones who strap themselves into the supersonic swept-wing F-14's that Tom Cruise made famous in the movie, they hardly need to know that every time they catapult off a carrier and take to the  skies at Mach 2 they are paying tribute to the man who made the plane possible.
        The F-14 Tomcat, the last in a series of Grumman-built cat planes dating to the F-4 Wildcat and F-6 Hellcat of World War II, is the only one named for an admiral. The reason that Tom Connolly is the admiral the plane is named for will not be found in his official Navy biography.
        A native of St. Paul who grew up in Los Angeles, Admiral Connolly was a top gymnast who won a bronze medal in the rope climb at the 1932 Olympics before graduating from the United States Naval Academy.
        At the outbreak of World War II he was completing a master's degree in aeronautic engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He received his share of decorations for wartime service commanding a squadron of 40 land-based patrol bombers, but what many of his fellow fliers regarded as his most courageous and most significant contribution came two decades later. The enemy, as the Admiral saw it, was not an alien power but his  own well-meaning civilian bosses.
        By then Admiral Connolly was on a four-star track, having distinguished himself as a crack test pilot, established the Navy's elite test pilot training  center at Patuxent River, Md., commanded two carriers, a carrier division and the entire Pacific air wing, and had spent so much time in high-level Pentagon posts that it was hardly surprising when he was elevated to Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for air in 1966.
        It was the time in which Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara and the Whiz Kids he had brought to the Pentagon from the Ford Motor Company were pressing to save money by building a common plane, with slight variations, for both the Air  Force and the Navy.
        In theory it was a brilliant idea, but to the Navy, the execution was weighted dangerously in favor of Air Force needs. Indeed, to a man, Navy aviators and naval aviation specialists argued that the plane, the F-111, was unstable and too heavy for its thrust to take off from carriers.
        In the political climate of the Johnson Administration, however, the Navy's concerns were swept aside, and like the loyal officers they were, the Navy's admirals kept their objections quiet in public.
        Then came the day Vice Admiral Connolly joined a team headed by the Secretary of the Navy at a Senate hearing conducted by John C. Stennis, the chairman of the Senate Armed Forces Committee.
        Gerald E. Miller, a retired admiral who was present as an aide to Admiral Connolly, recalled that Mr. was sympathetic to the Navy's position. But with Secretary Paul R. Ignatius of the Navy fielding every question, no matter how technical, and following the Pentagon line to the letter, Mr. Stennis despaired  of getting the explicit criticism he needed.
        Finally, in desperation, he singled out Admiral Connolly, noted his renowned  expertise in naval aeronautics, and asked him pointedly to give his personal, not his official, opinion. Admiral Miller remembers vividly that Admiral Connolly swallowed hard, then declared, "There isn't enough thrust in Christendom to fix this plane."
        With his answer, Admiral Miller noted, the Navy version of the F-111 died aborning and Admiral Connolly's dream of promotion to full admiral died along with it.
        Having rescued the Navy from what he considered an aviation disaster, Admiral Connolly threw himself into the design and development of the F-14, becoming virtually the day-today project manager.
        He retired in 1971, a star short of his dream, but his work on the F-14 and its name provided a measure of consolation. It is a tribute to his vision that two decades after it was introduced as the technological marvel of military aviation, modified versions of the F-14 are still regarded as the primary defenders of the nation's fleets.
        And they still call it the Tomcat.
        In addition to wife, Admiral Connolly is survived by a son, Thomas Jr., of Holland; a daughter, Susan Maya of Vienna, Va., and three grandchildren.
      