
        Al Poulin, a French-Canadian New England mill hand's son who had such an appetite for language that he managed to live the life of a poet in a world that sometimes seems to value typesetters more, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Brockport, N.Y., the Erie Canal town he had made a center of contemporary American poetry. He was 58 and the founding editor of BOA Editions, one of the nation's premier poetry publishers.
        His wife, Boo, said the cause was complications of the pulmonary disorders that had forced him to step down a decade ago as professor of English at the State University college at Brockport.
        During a career in which he taught, translated Rilke, compiled a leading anthology and wrote his own well-received poems, Mr. Poulin, who published under the name A. Poulin Jr., was best known in the small, fervent circle of poetry lovers as a champion of other struggling poets.
        In a field in which the major New York publishers, two dozen independent houses like BOA and an additional 20 or so university presses bring out perhaps  a thousand volumes of poetry a year, Mr. Poulin, whose not-for-profit enterprise publishes six annual collections, consistently published poets whose works won a measure of literary acclaim.
        He was, for example, credited with discovering Li-Young Lee, Brigit Pegeen Kelly and Dorianne Laux; recharging the careers of Lucille Clifton and W. D. Snodgrass, and advancing the critical reputations of John Logan, Delmore Schwartz and Isabella Gardner through the publication of posthumous collections.
        But in the literary circles of upstate New York, where the sense of rivalry with New York City can be intense, Mr. Poulin became a regional hero in 1985 when the BOA-published "Yin," by Carolyn Kizer, won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry a year after it had been rejected by major New York houses.
        Mr. Poulin, who was born in Lisbon, Me., was so small, frail and sensitive that he was incessantly teased, but not to the point that he became embittered.
        Instead, after sending some of his youthful verse to William Carlos Williams  and receiving an encouraging response, he emerged with his sense of humanity and his love of language intact.
        After studying briefly for the priesthood and graduating from St. Francis College in Biddeford, Me., he received master's degrees from Loyola University and the University of Iowa's writer's workshop and taught at a series of colleges before arriving at Brockport in 1971, a time when the Buffalo-Rochester axis was such a hotbed of literary and artistic ferment that he knew he had found a home for life.
        He was soon at the center of the area's cultural life, beginning his work as  editor of "Contemporary American Poetry," the anthology, now in its sixth edition, published by Houghton Mifflin. He was also directing a program that brings leading poets to Brockport for long archival videotaped interviews, and founding another that entices major poets to introduce grade-school children to  the joys of poetry.
        Mr. Poulin, whose own poems reflect a deep, sensuous, almost physical spirituality, was a man who loved words so much that he could almost taste them. Indeed, like an epicure who is forever urging his favorite dishes on his friends, Mr. Poulin adopted it as his mission to put the savories of poetry before the public.
        His wife, who met her husband at the University of New Hampshire in 1963, when she was a student and he a teacher, recalled that he had written her a poem almost immediately, a practice he continued throughout his life, as evidenced by the title poem of his 1991 collection "Cave Dwellers":
        I've carved a cave in the mountainside.
        I've drilled for water, stocked provisions
        to last a lifetime. The walls are smooth.
        We can live, here, love, safe from elements.
        We'll invent another love that can't destroy.
        We'll make exquisite reproductions of our
        selves, immortal on these walls.
        And when
        this sea that can't support us is burned clean,
        when the first new creatures crawl from it,
        gasping for water, air, more wonderous and more
        wild than earth's first couple, they shall see
        there were two before them: you and me.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Poulin is survived by a daughter, Daphne Stofer  of Rochester; his mother, Alice, of New Britain, Conn.; two sisters, Ann Labbe of New Britain and Joline House of Newington, Conn.; a brother, Normand, of Newington, and one grandchild.
      