
        William J. Baroody Jr., a high aide to President Gerald R. Ford who was also  president of the conservative American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research from 1978 until he resigned in 1986, died on Saturday at Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 58 and lived in Alexandria.
        The cause was a lung ailment, The Associated Press said.
        Mr. Baroody was executive vice president of the institute in 1977 and 1978 before succeeding his father, William Sr., as its president, based in Washington. Under William Jr., the institute played a major role in forming the  policies of President Ronald Reagan's Administration.
        At the time of William Jr.'s sudden resignation as the institute's president  -- which was forced -- the organization was under financial pressure. It had recently had a serious budget deficit, as contributions ceased to increase while spending went on growing.
        Mr. Baroody's departure from the organization -- he and his father had held its presidency for a total of 32 of its first 43 years -- solidified a decision  at the institute to retrench after an era of swiftly growing influence and of ambitious expansion.
        Under Mr. Baroody in the 1980's, the institute contributed not only ideas but also high officials to the Government. Among them were James C. Miller 3d, director of the Office of Management and Budget, and Jeane Kirkpatrick, chief United States delegate to the United Nations.
        At the time of Mr. Baroody's resignation, several employees said a chief cause was dissatisfaction with how the institute was being run. A lesser cause was thought to be disillusionment on the part of some substantial contributors who thought the institute had shifted toward the political spectrum's center after being consistently to the right.
        In a written farewell statement, Mr. Baroody said: "The integrity and health  of A.E.I. are paramount, and these require a united board and staff. I deeply regret that we were not able to pull together toward this end in recent months."
        Mr. Baroody was born in Manchester, N.H., the son of Nabeeha Ashooh Baroody,  and grew up in Washington. He received a bachelor's degree from Holy Cross College in 1959, served in the Navy from 1959 to 1961 and was legislative assistant and press secretary to Representative Melvin R. Laird, an influential  Wisconsin Republican, from 1961 to 1968 and research director for the House Republican Conference in 1968 and 1969.
        He went on to the Pentagon where he again was an aide to Mr. Laird, who was Secretary of Defense from 1969 to 1973. In that year, Mr. Baroody became a special assistant to President Richard M. Nixon, becoming head of the White House's Office of Public Liaison. That office had been given the mission of maintaining contacts between the Administration and outside groups in business and labor, as well as veterans, farm, church, youth and other organizations.
        In September 1974, President Ford gave Mr. Baroody, who was still the head of the Office of Public Liaison, the higher title of assistant to the President --  the highest staff rank in the White House. He held the post until 1976.
        During that period, in 1975, Mr. Baroody asked an advertising-industry audience to help encourage energy conservation. "It won't be easy," he said. "Conservation and the sacrifice that goes with it doesn't lend itself to an easy sell. But any industry that can sell pantyhose using Joe Namath as a model shouldn't find any sale job too tough."
        At that time, it was also through Mr. Baroody's office that the public was told about what was going on in the Ford Administration. The White House liaison office endeavored to sell the policies and personality of Mr. Ford, who was striving to display his leadership ability without the political foundation that new Presidents customarily possess as a consequence of being elected -- as Mr. Ford was not.
        Mr. Baroody's other activities over the years included being chairman of the  Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars from 1981 to 1994.
        He and his wife, Mary, were divorced. His survivors include seven sons, Bill, David, Christopher, Andrew, Thomas, Philip and Paul; two daughters, Marybee Baroody and JoEllen Quint; 13 grandchildren; two brothers, Joseph and Michael; and four sisters, Anne Gallagher, Katherine Baroody, Helene Payne and Maryfran Milbank.
      