
        C. Arnholt Smith, once a multimillionaire California banker who brought major league baseball to San Diego but who was later convicted of embezzling $8.9 million from his business properties, died on Saturday in Del Mar, Calif., at the age of 97.
        Mr. Smith was the original owner of the San Diego Padres baseball team, bringing it into the National League as an expansion team in 1969. After an unsuccessful effort to move it to Washington, D.C., in 1973, he sold the team to Ray Kroc, founder of the McDonald's fast-food restaurants.
        Mr. Smith had also been a close friend, adviser and major contributor to President Richard M. Nixon.
        Tall and trim, a man whose friends said he almost always wore a smile, a suntan, Buster Brown shoes and a brown suit, Conrad Arnholt Smith was known as Mr. San Diego among civic leaders before his financial and legal troubles began  in the late 1960's. He had come to San Diego as a child from Walla Walla, Wash.  He dropped out of San Diego High School at 15 to work as a grocery clerk and then as a messenger for the Bank of Italy (now the Bank of America). In 1933, he used his savings and money from his older brother, John, to buy a controlling interest in the United States National Bank.
        His empire included the Westgate-California Corporation and its vast real-estate developments, seafood canneries, silver mines, transportation companies and the Padres, which he bought in 1955 for $300,000 when it was a minor league team.
        The seriousness of Mr. Smith's business difficulties did not become apparent  until 1973, when the United States National Bank collapsed with an outstanding debt of $400 million -- at that time, the nation's biggest bank failure. He stood trial later on accusations that included embezzlement and the comingling of funds from various businesses. In 1979, he was sentenced to three years in a  California county jail for income tax evasion and grand theft, but he did not go to jail until after his case was reviewed in 1984 and the sentence reduced to one year. A Superior Court judge, who had received a medical report stating that Mr. Smith had only five years to live, said: "I am not going to take three-fifths of that. If I do, it would be a death sentence."
        Mr. Smith served about seven months at the county honor camp, tending roses.
        His association with Mr. Nixon began after Gov. Earl Warren of California, who later became Chief Justice of the United States, appointed Mr. Smith to the  state's Highway Commission. He was a supporter of Mr. Nixon from his first race  for Congress in 1946, but that association eventually became tangled in his legal problems.
        The President's former New York law firm, then known as Mudge, Rose, Guthrie  & Alexander, was named in Mr. Smith's civil bankruptcy trial in 1977 as having made a secret deal with officials in the Nixon Administration to help funnel assets from Westgate-California, without its stockholders' knowledge, into the United States National Bank to try to keep it afloat. The firm, which dissolved  in 1995, denied that.
        Mr. Smith lived nearly 12 years after the medical report saying he could not  be expected to live more than 5 years. But his daughter from his first marriage, Carol Smith Shannon, said he had never been fully released in his own mind from  his troubles. She said he had talked of them often in recent years, but then he  would always smile and say, "Let's get going, Tiger."
        Mr. Smith and his first wife, Lois, divorced in 1967. Their son, C. Arnholt Smith Jr., died of a heart attack at the age of 36. A second marriage ended in divorce.
        Mr. Smith is survived by two grandsons and three granddaughters.
      