
        John Alton, whose cinematography helped define film noir and who later shared an Academy Award for "An American in Paris," died on June 2 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 94 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Alton was born in Sopron, Hungary, and immigrated to America in 1919. After  spending four years as a lab technician for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, he became a cameraman at Paramount in 1928, working on films like "Spoilers of the West" and "Wyoming," which were produced by David O. Selznick. He also did location shooting in Europe for several films, including Ernst Lubitsch's "Student Prince." In the early 1930's he went to Argentina, where he helped create the country's first sound stage and directed more than 20 films.
        After returning to Hollywood in the late 1930's, Mr. Alton worked on many B pictures, often with the director Anthony Mann. They included "He Walked by Night," "Raw Deal," "Hollow Triumph," "Border Incident," "Devil's Doorway," "Slightly Scarlet" and "T-Men." His stylized, Rembrandt-esque use of light has been credited with helping define the look of film noir. He wrote several books  on cinematography, notably "Painting With Light" (1949) which was republished last year by the University of California Press. Mr. Alton landed more prestigious assignments after working with Vincent Minnelli on "Father of the Bride" and "An American in Paris," for which he filmed the ballet sequence and shared an Oscar for color cinematography with Alfred Gilks. His later films included "Father's Little Dividend," "The Big Combo," "The Brothers Karamazov" and "Elmer Gantry." In 1962 he began work on "Birdman of Alcatraz" but was replaced after the original director, Charles Crichton, was replaced by John Frankenheimer. It was his last film, and he spent most of the rest of his life in seclusion in Europe and South America. When film scholars discovered that he had quietly returned to the United States, he became the subject of tributes at the Telluride Film Festival and the American Museum of the Moving Image. He is survived by a sister, Esther, who lives in Israel.
      