
        Lonne Elder 3d, the playwright who wrote "Ceremonies in Dark Old Men," died on Tuesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 69 and died "after a chronic illness," said his former wife, the actress Judyann Johnson Elder.
        Although Mr. Elder wrote several other plays and was also a screenwriter (of  "Sounder") and a writer for television, "Ceremonies in Dark Old Men" was his major work. First produced off Broadway in 1969 by the Negro Ensemble Company, it became as meaningful a theatrical event as Lorraine Hansberry's "Raisin in the Sun."
        In it, Mr. Elder told the poignant and humane story of one Harlem family in  the 1950's, revealing the discontent that led an older generation to grow old before its time and a younger generation to try to circumvent the system by all  possible means. At the center of the play is Russell B. Parker, a prodigal father and failed barber who exists on memories and "ceremonies" for survival. He recounts atmospheric tales about his life in vaudeville and tells, in darkly  comic detail, about his days on the chain gang.
        Mr. Elder's success opened the door to other black playwrights. After him came Joseph A. Walker, Leslie Lee, Steve Carter, Richard Wesley, Samm-Art Williams, Charles Fuller and August Wilson. Douglas Turner Ward directed and starred in the original production, and in subsequent versions on stage and on television roles were played by an honor roll of actors, including Denzel Washington, Laurence Fishburne and Billy Dee Williams.
        When "Ceremonies" was revived in New York in 1985, with Mr. Ward returning to his role, the play had ripened into a contemporary classic. Three years later, the playwright went back to Off Broadway with "Splendid Mummer," a monodrama about Ira Aldridge, apparently the first black actor to play Othello. Charles S. Dutton starred.
        Mr. Elder was born in Americus, Ga. After his parents died, he moved to Jersey City, where he was brought up by an aunt and uncle. By the time he was 19, he was living in Harlem. He worked as a waiter, professional gambler and telephone clerk, and entered the theater as an actor, appearing on Broadway in the original production of "A Raisin in the Sun." He wrote poems and stories and began his first play, drawing on memories of his uncle who had been a numbers runner in Jersey City. "Ceremonies" was given a workshop reading at the New Dramatists Committee in 1965.
        When Mr. Ward and Robert Hooks founded the Negro Ensemble Company in 1967, Mr. Elder became head of that group's playwrights' unit, and the company produced his play in its first season at the St. Mark's Playhouse. Later it moved into an extended Off Broadway run. "Ceremonies" received enthusiastic reviews.
        After a decade of hard work and anonymity, Mr. Elder was an overnight success. "I wrote to write, out of my guts and my heart," he said at the time. "I wanted to cause some kind of wonder in the minds of people." He added: "I don't rant or rave about the terror of our racist society. It is never directly  stated, it is just there." And, "We knew in rehearsal we had something."
        In 1969, Mr. Elder married Judyann Johnson, who had been in the original production of "Ceremonies" and the following year they moved to Los Angeles, where he began his career in films. "Sounder," a 1972 movie about Southern sharecroppers during the Depression (starring Paul Winfield and Cicely Tyson), earned Mr. Elder an Academy Award nomination for best screenplay. Among his other movies were "Melinda," in which he also made a brief acting appearance as  a detective; "Part 2 Sounder" and "Bustin' Loose," starring Richard Pryor. For television he wrote "A Woman Called Moses" as well as scripts for "McCloud" and  other series.
        In 1990, he was called in to rewrite the book for "King," a musical about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., produced in London. In 1995, "Ceremonies" was revived at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven.
        He is survived by a daughter, Loni-Christine, of Los Angeles; two sons, David, of San Francisco, and Christian, of Los Angeles, and two stepsisters and  two stepbrothers, all of Jersey City.
      