
        Wilson W. Wyatt, a onetime wonder boy of Kentucky politics who shrugged off his failure to capitalize on his early promise by becoming one of Louisville's most active and revered civic leaders, died on Tuesday at a Louisville hospital. He was 90.
        In a political career marked by almosts, Mr. Wyatt, who served a sensational  wartime term as Mayor of Louisville and was later elected Lieutenant Governor, almost became Governor, almost became Senator and almost became Vice President of the United States.
        Then, after his final defeat, a 1962 Senate race, Mr. Wyatt, a perennially optimistic man who had helped found Americans for Democratic Action in 1947 and  served as Adlai E. Stevenson's Presidential campaign manager in 1952, threw himself into his law practice. Mr. Wyatt built his firm into the state's largest and most influential, spearheading virtually every major Louisville civic project, from the National Center for Family Literacy and the John Graham Brown  Cancer Center to the Louisville Convention Center and the Kentucky Center for the Arts.
        The son of a onetime railroad mule driver who later became an executive of the Louisville transit system, Mr. Wyatt grew up in such modest circumstances that despite his academic brilliance he dropped out of college after a year at the University of Louisville, then worked as a clerk while putting himself through the old Jefferson School of Law, graduating in 1927 at the top of his class.
        Within a year, Mr. Wyatt was deeply involved in local Democratic politics, a  bit too deeply for his future mother-in-law, a prohibitionist who was aghast when Mr. Wyatt put on a brown derby and marched with Al Smith and Senator Alben  W. Barkley at the head of a Presidential campaign parade in 1928.
        After Smith's defeat, Mr. Wyatt concentrated on his law practice, which flourished during the Depression, in part because of his legal acumen and in part because his best friend from boyhood was Barry Bingham, the future publisher of The Louisville Courier-Journal. By 1939 Mr. Wyatt was a director of half a dozen leading corporations, including The Courier-Journal.
        Virtually drafted by the Louisville business community to run for mayor, Mr.  Wyatt was elected in 1941 and spent the next four years earning a national reputation for energetic and enthusiastic activism.
        Mr. Wyatt overhauled the city government, cut transit fares, forced business  to pay back taxes, led the fight for the municipal takeover of the power company he had represented as a lawyer and advanced the cause of black citizens on a variety of fronts, appointing black members to local boards and doubling the number of black police officers.
        Barred by law from a second term, Mr. Wyatt was planning to resume his law practice at the end of 1945 when he was summoned to Washington by President Truman to solve the national housing crisis, as the National Housing Administrator.
        Faced with an immediate need to provide 2.7 million homes for returning servicemen and instructed by the President to "make no small plans," Mr. Wyatt proceeded to develop a plan that was so far-reaching and entailed such deep Government involvement that it stirred fervent opposition from construction industry and union officials alike.
        But the plan was gutted by Congress, and Mr. Wyatt returned to Louisville. He was considered a likely running-mate for President Truman in 1948, but Senator Barkley won the nomination after making a riveting address to the Democratic National Convention.
        Mr. Wyatt sought the nomination for governor in 1959, but had to settle for second place on a ticket headed by Bert Combs. During the campaign, Gov. A. B. (Happy) Chandler, who was backing a rival ticket, dug up a 1928 photograph showing Mr. Wyatt wearing spats and ridiculed him as "Old Ankle Blankets." Mr. Wyatt got a measure of satisfaction when the Combs-Wyatt victory ended Mr. Chandler's Presidential ambitions. Mr. Wyatt was expected to succeed Governor Combs, but he ran for the Senate and was defeated by Thruston B. Morton.
        Mr. Wyatt is survived by his wife, the former Anne Kinnard Duncan; a son, Wilson Jr. of Bethesda, Md.; two daughters, Mary Anne Wyatt of South Natick, Mass., and Nancy Zorn of Louisville; a sister, Gertrude Benedict of Wellesley, Mass.; a brother, Robert Wyatt of Laguna Hills, Calif. and six grandchildren.
      