
        Jerry S. Cohen, a Washington, D.C., lawyer and author who represented farm workers, fishers, small businesses and others in prominent cases that made him one of the deans of class-action litigation in America, died last Tuesday in Sun Valley, Idaho, where he was on vacation. He was 70 years old
        Mr. Cohen, the senior partner of the Washington law firm of Cohen, Milstein,  Hausfeld & Toll, died of a heart attack, his daughter, Elizabeth, said. He had homes in Washington and Minneapolis.
        In a wide-ranging career that spanned more than four decades, Mr. Cohen was  an assistant attorney general in Michigan, chief counsel to the United States Senate Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee and the co-author of two books about  corporate abuse of power.
        He also represented Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers for 14 years, winning fights in and out of court that enabled the union to organize farm laborers for the first time. And he broke legal ground by establishing that sexual harassment in the workplace was a violation of civil rights laws.
        But it was as a lawyer in class-action suits that Mr. Cohen was best known. Beginning in 1989, he was the co-lead counsel in the Exxon Valdez oil spill case, which combined 150 lawsuits by some 34,000 plaintiffs -- Alaska fishers, seafood processors, environmental groups, coastal villages and others -- against Exxon Corporation and other defendants over the spill in Prince William Sound.
        After more than five years, the complex suit is unresolved. In 1994, a jury in Anchorage awarded the plaintiffs $5 billion in punitive damages -- the largest ever in a pollution case and the second largest in a civil action in the United States -- but Exxon has contested the verdict, and the judge in the case  has not yet ordered the judgment to be paid.
        Mr. Cohen was also a lead lawyer representing thousands of people in the 1984 leak of pesticides from a Union Carbide plant in Bhopal, India, which left 4,000 dead and thousands more injured. Lawyers for 29 firms filed suits in Federal courts in the United States, seeking $100 billion for 148,000 victims of the world's worst industrial disaster.
        But the Indian Government later reserved the exclusive right to represent victims and the American suits were dismissed. Union Carbide eventually paid the Indian Government nearly $600 million, but much of the money has been frozen by  continuing disputes over liability.
        In another major case, Mr. Cohen in the late 1970's represented hundreds of small businesses in a suit against paper companies and makers of corrugated boxes, who were accused of price fixing; he won judgments and settlements of over $1 billion, a law partner, Michael D. Hausfeld, recalled yesterday.
        Mr. Hausfeld noted that Mr. Cohen also helped break legal ground in a 1976 case of sexual harassment. He represented Diane Williams, a public information specialist in the Justice Department, who said she was harassed, humiliated and  dismissed after refusing her boss's advances. Federal Judge Charles R. Richey, ruling in her favor, recognized sexual harassment for the first time as being illegal under Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
        After that, sexual harassment cases flooded the Equal Employment Opportunity  Commission, which enforced Title VII. The E.E.O.C. in 1980 issued guidelines essentially in accord with the Williams case, defining sexual harassment as unwelcome advances that are either a condition of employment or a feature of the working environment that interferes with a person's ability to perform.
        Jerry Shael Cohen was born in Wayne County, Mich., on Sept. 13, 1925, a son of William and Martha Cohen. He graduated from Central High School in Detroit and, after service in the Marines, enrolled in Wayne State University and received a bachelor's degree in 1949 and a law degree in 1952.
        After several years in his father's law firm in Detroit, he joined the office of Michigan's Attorney General and served as the assistant in charge of the criminal division from 1959 to 1961. He then went to Washington and became a staff counsel to the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee. He was the subcommittee's chief counsel and staff director from 1963 to 1969.
        From 1967 to 1981, Mr. Cohen was chief counsel to the United Farm Workers, joining Cesar Chavez in the bitter fight in the late 1960's that successfully organized tens of thousands of agricultural workers with a nationwide boycott of California table grapes.
        Among other things, Mr. Cohen won court fights against using trespass laws against union organizers who were being barred from access to workers in the fields. He was also instrumental in writing a Farm Workers Union accord with the teamsters to end a decade of organizing strife. Mr. Chavez died in 1993.
        Last May, after disclosures that Federal agents during the late 1960's and early 70's had followed Mr. Chavez for years in search of proof that he was a Communist, Mr. Cohen said: "It was a witch hunt and an exercise in guilt by association. I was just amazed at how dumb and what a waste it was -- and to what extent the abuse went on."
        Mr. Cohen and Morton Mintz, an investigative reporter for The Washington Post, were co-authors of two books, "America, Inc.: Who Owns and Operates the United States?" (Dial Press, 1971), and "Power, Inc.: Public and Private Rulers  and How to Make Them Accountable" (Viking, 1976).
        Mr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Nina Minkoff Cohen; two sons, Daniel, of Jacksonville, Fla., and Ian, of Minneapolis; four daughters, Elizabeth, of Boston, Catherine and Caroline, both of Seattle, and Giselle, of Detroit; a sister, Barbara Silberberg of Farmington Hills, Mich.; two brothers, Andrew, of  Houston, and Leon, of Ranchos Palos Verdes, Calif., and one grandson.
        Correction:  January 2, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Jerry S. Cohen, a Washington lawyer best known for class-action suits, incorrectly included information about another lawyer named Jerry Cohen, who practices in California. It was the Jerry Cohen who lives in California -- not the one who just died -- who for 14 years was general counsel to the United Farm Workers, winning court battles against the use of trespass laws to deny union organizers access to workers in the fields. He was also instrumental in writing a Farm Workers Union accord with the teamsters to end 10 years of organizing strife. And it was he who characterized attempts by Federal agents to prove that Cesar Chavez was a Communist as a "witch hunt and an exercise in guilt by association."
      