
        Le Mai, Vietnam's Deputy Foreign Minister, who for many years was his country's voice in its edgy postwar relationship with the United States, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, the Foreign Ministry said today. He was 56.
        A junior member of the Paris negotiating team that secured America's withdrawal from Vietnam in 1973 and a chief architect of Hanoi's more recent campaign for diplomatic relations with Washington, Mr. Mai was fond of reminding Americans that "Vietnam is a country, not only a war."
        Mr. Mai, who had two previous heart attacks, was stricken at home and died later at a hospital, The Associated Press reported from Hanoi, quoting the Foreign Ministry.
        Mr. Mai, a highly visible figure in the ministry for many years and Deputy Minister since 1990, was a member of the Communist Party Central Committee, the  nation's chief policy-making body, and had been seen as a possible successor to  Foreign Minister Nguyen Manh Cam.
        His long association with the United States -- beginning with meetings in Hanoi and Canada with antiwar activists during the war -- had also led to an expectation that he might become his country's first ambassador to Washington.
        Fluent in English, Mr. Mai traveled often to the United States in his country's long postwar campaign to end economic sanctions and then to establish  full diplomatic relations with Washington, a goal it achieved last year.
        In a statement today, the United States State Department praised Mr. Mai for  his "instrumental role" in "the ongoing process of normalizing the relationship  between the United States and Vietnam." The statement called his death untimely  and tragic, and said his contribution to bilateral ties will be missed. Mr. Mai  was "a highly regarded diplomat and friend to many Americans," the statement said.
        In his many contacts with Americans, Mr. Mai was an aggressive promoter of Vietnam's interests but also exemplified its pragmatism in putting past enmities aside.
        "If we nursed all of our grudges with all of the powers that we have fought against, we wouldn't have relations with anyone," he said last year.
        He argued that Vietnam's Communist Party was a home-grown nationalist movement immune from the collapse of Communism throughout much of the world. The Communist system meets an Asian need for unity and consensus, he said.
        And he rejected American criticisms of Vietnam's human rights record, saying, "Foreigners who come here to press their ideas about human rights on Vietnam are not welcome."
        "The United States considers itself a model for the world, imposing its way of living and thinking on other nations," he said in 1994. "They are always reminding the Vietnamese people they are dealing with a superior power. Sometimes we feel the United States doesn't treat us on an equal footing."
        Le Mai was born in 1940 in the central coastal city of Hue and first worked as a journalist. At 25 he was sent for three years to China, during that country's Cultural Revolution, as a representative of the National Liberation Front, the South Vietnamese Communist political organization.
        After North Vietnam's victory in 1975 and the reunification of the country, Mr. Mai worked in the American Department of the Foreign Ministry. From 1980 to  1984 he was deputy and then director of the ministry's Press Department, in which role he escorted some of the first groups of American journalists to visit postwar Vietnam.
        He was Assistant Foreign Minister from 1984 to 1986 and was Ambassador to Thailand during a politically sensitive period from 1986 to 1989, while Vietnamese troops occupied neighboring Cambodia.
        After his promotion to Deputy Foreign Minister, he was named to the Central Committee in 1994.
        He is survived by his wife and two children.
      