
        Paul Lipson, who played Tevye in "Fiddler on the Roof" for more performances  than any other actor, died on Wednesday at New York University Hospital. He was  82 and lived in Manhattan.
        For the original 1964 Broadway production of the musical, starring Zero Mostel as Tevye, Mr. Lipson was the understudy for Mr. Mostel and played Avram,  the bookseller. When Mr. Mostel became ill during a matinee performance in Washington on the show's pre-Broadway tour, Mr. Lipson filled in for him, as he  would on other occasions.
        Later in New York, he moved up to the role of Lazar Wolf, the butcher, and in 1970 took over the role of Tevye (replacing Harry Goz). He was succeeded in the role by Jan Peerce, but returned to it in 1972. At the time, he said that "between me and Tevye there was still some unfinished business." Reappraising the show in The New York Times, Clive Barnes said, "It has often been rumored that Mr. Lipson was one of the very finest Tevyes, and the rumors now proved abundantly true." At various times Mr. Lipson also took over the role of Tevye from Luther Adler, Herschel Bernardi and Theodore Bikel.
        Mr. Lipson was appearing as Tevye when "Fiddler" gave its 3,225th performance on Broadway in 1972 and became Broadway's longest-running show of its time. He also played the character in revivals of the musical, adding mileage to the role with which he was most identified. By 1980, he had played Tevye more than 2,000  times.
        Mr. Lipson was born in Brooklyn, grew up in Pittsfield, Mass., and studied at Ohio State University. He made his Broadway debut in 1942 in Ben Hecht's "Lily of the Valley." After serving in the Air Force during World War II, he toured with ZaSu Pitts in "Dangerous Woman" and with Diana Barrymore in "Joan of Lorraine."
        He was on Broadway in "Detective Story," "Remains to Be Seen," "Carnival in Flanders," "I've Got Sixpence," "The Vamp" and "Bells Are Ringing" (the first time he worked with Jerome Robbins, who later directed "Fiddler"). He also acted in "Fiorello!" and "The Sound of Music."
        He is survived by two sisters, Sylvia Allen of New York City and Charlotte Paskin of Port Jefferson, L.I.
      