
        Kenneth E. Hasbrouck, who turned his family heritage into an acclaimed campaign for historical preservation that has made New Paltz, N.Y., an unusual repository of early Huguenot architecture, died on Sunday, May 26, at the New Paltz Nursing Home. He was 79.
        His wife, Alice, said the cause was complications from injuries suffered in an automobile accident last year.
        It has been more than 300 years since a dozen Huguenot refugees from Catholic France made their way to the Hudson Valley, founded the town of New Paltz (named for the German town where they had found temporary refuge) and started having children with such Calvinistic purpose that today, a dozen generations later, it is estimated that their descendants number in the tens of  thousands.
        There is a reason Mr. Hasbrouck was the one they called Mr. Huguenot. Anyone  who wonders why need only take a stroll down the shady New Paltz lane the early  settlers called Potato Street. It is known as Huguenot Street ("the oldest street in America with its original houses," as the brochures put it) and it is  Mr. Hasbrouck's personal legacy to future generations.
        It was he who is credited with rescuing five of the six 17th-century stone houses that line the street he turned into an outdoor museum of Huguenot history.
        Mr. Hasbrouck, whose male line traces back to Abraham Hasbrouck, one of the 12 men who established New Paltz in 1678, was born on a farm in Guilford, N.Y.,  and grew up so steeped in family history that before he was a teen-ager he could rattle off the names of the 12 New Paltz founders, among them LeFevre, Deyo, Dubois, Bevier and Elting. They were known locally as the patentees because of the royal patent they obtained from the English colonial governor after buying 40,000 acres from the Esopus Indians.
        (The patentees settled originally in the nearby Dutch community of Hurley but established a town of their own to preserve their Huguenot culture from Dutch influence. It did not work. There were so many Huguenot-Dutch marriages that by  Mr. Hasbrouck's day he was an elder in the Dutch Church of New Paltz and once served on the vestry of the French Dutch Church in New York City, which in one of those only-in-New York twists, is actually Anglican.)
        In time, Mr. Hasbrouck graduated from the state college at New Paltz and became a school teacher in the Wallkill system, where he specialized in history.
        His major contribution to historic preservation came in the 1950's, a time when five of the patentees' six remaining stone houses had long since become tenement slums and were threatened with being razed as their owners put them up for sale. The other, the Jean Hasbrouck House, built by Abraham Hasbrouck's brother and fellow founder, had been a museum since the 1890's. But the historical society that owned it was $200 in debt and had no way to buy the five others.
        It was then that Mr. Hasbrouck decided to tap the resources of the patentees' thousands of descendants by forming separate family associations so that each could purchase and maintain the house of that family's progenitor.
        Mr. Hasbrouck was clearly the man to do the job since he was not only a crack genealogist who knew who was descended from which Huguenot antecedent, but also  he was himself a descendant of every one of the 11 patentees who had married and had children.
        As a genealogist, Mr. Hasbrouck looked beyond his own family history. Among other things, he established that, while his own forebears were still in Europe, his California-born wife's Jackson ancestors had settled Newton, Mass. But even  that did not satisfy him.
        "He tried to put me on the Mayflower," Mrs. Hasbrouck said, "but we ran into  two people with the same name and couldn't figure them out."
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hasbrouck, whose son Charles died in 1987, is survived by another son, Kenneth Jr. of New Paltz, and two grandchildren.
      