
        Emmet L. Wemple, a noted Los Angeles architect who let others design the structures while he concentrated on turning their settings into landscaped works of art, died on June 5 in Los Angeles, the city whose public face he helped shape for more than 40 years. He was 75.
        The cause was complications after heart surgery, his associates said.
        Though his work ranged as far as the grounds of the American Embassy in Tokyo and the master layout for the Government center in El Salvador, Mr. Wemple did most of his work in and around Los Angeles.
        A native of San Francisco, he fell in love with the distinctive landscape of  Southern California the moment he first saw it. After enrolling at the University of Southern California, Mr. Wemple made Los Angeles his base, earning a master's degree at the university and teaching at its school of architecture for almost 40 years.
        Mr. Wemple's projects in Southern California included the grounds and parks of the Angelus Plaza senior citizen housing in downtown Los Angeles, the Otis-Parsons Design Institute in Los Angeles, the Paramount and Warner Brothers  studios, the Richard M. Nixon Presidential Library and Birthplace in Whittier and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu. He also planned the landscaping for the  Valencia Town Center and the Naval Regional Medical Center in San Diego.
        Regardless of the assignment, Mr. Wemple saw his task as not so much altering the landscape as extending and celebrating it through designs that served as gentle bridges between the works of nature and man.
        Not surprisingly, he was also active in virtually every preservation and beautification campaign in Los Angeles.
        One of his last projects is expected to be one of the most memorable, certainly the most visible: the line of trees and other landscape features of the new Getty Center, an arts complex on a mountaintop in Brentwood, which can be seen from the heavily traveled San Diego Freeway.
        Mr. Wemple is survived by his wife, Meguila Seno Wemple.
      