
        Mel Allen, the exuberant Alabaman who turned "How about that!" and "Ballantine Blast" into common parlance during a glorious reign as the voice of  the Yankees, died yesterday at his Greenwich, Conn., home some time after watching the Yankees' game with the Cleveland Indians, his sister, Esther Kaufman, said. He was 83 years old.
        Allen, who had open heart surgery seven years ago, had been ill over the past year. "But he was rallying and planning to go back to work," said Mrs. Kaufman,  who had lived with her brother since 1977. The cause of death had not been determined.
        Educated as a lawyer, Mr. Allen called Yankees games on radio and then on television from 1939 to 1964 -- from the last days of Lou Gehrig to the last gasp of the Yankee empire. He bled pinstripe blue and welcomed listeners with his trademark greeting, "Hello, everybody, this is Mel Allen!"
        His garrulous, infectious style bonded him to fans but made Yankee haters loathe the team more. He did not think of himself as a Yankee booster, but he became as intimately identified with the team's fortunes as almost any player.
        Recently, he said: "Some guy once said to me, 'When I tune you in, I know you'll say something positive about the Yankees.' But there's a difference between partisanship and prejudice. I gave other players their due."
        Mr. Allen's voice, distinctly Southern but a perfect fit for the Bronx, became synonymous with baseball's rhythms, its lazy summer afternoons, chilly Octobers and shadows creeping over Yankee Stadium's greensward.
        "That voice -- there'll never be another like him," said the Yankee broadcaster Phil Rizzuto, whom Mr. Allen dubbed "the Scooter." "He was the real  voice of the Yankees. He was like Joe McCarthy. When you made a mistake on the field, he got to you right there. He didn't wait. Mel was like that. Right on the air, he'd correct me. At first I thought he was picking on me, but I realized later he was doing it for my benefit."
        His manner contrasted with the cool objectivity of Walter (Red) Barber, the legendary voice of the Brooklyn Dodgers who joined Mr. Allen with the Yankees from 1954 to 1964. In 1978, the two men -- fire and ice -- were the first inductees into the National Baseball Hall of Fame's broadcasting wing.
        Melvin Allen Israel was born in Johns, Ala., on Feb. 14, 1913. He dropped his last name when CBS felt his name was too Jewish. But he recently joked: "There was a K.K.K. guy in Alabama named Israel."
        His father, Julius Israel, who became a traveling shirt salesman after his women's clothing store closed during the Depression, and mother, Anna, were Russian immigrants. "My daddy was a storyteller," Mr. Allen said.
        When Mr. Allen enrolled at the University of Alabama at age 15, he had no designs on broadcasting. He was student manager of the football team and moonlighted as the public-address announcer. During law school at the university in 1935, Mr. Allen was asked by the Alabama football coach Frank Thomas to replace the team's radio announcer for $5 a game.
        "My only experience was in listening to Graham McNamee and Ted Husing," Mr. Allen said, referring to two pioneer sports broadcasters.
        He completed law school and passed the Alabama bar exam. But during a Christmas vacation in 1936 with friends in New York, he stopped, on a lark, at CBS for an audition and was hired early the next year as a $45-a-week announcer, understudying Mr. Husing in sports and Robert Trout in news.
        He was the host of a sports program, covered a ski-jump event in New Hampshire, roomed with Ralph Edwards and introduced the bands of Tommy Dorsey, Glenn Miller and Benny Goodman from Manhattan hotels. "I had more fun doing that than just about anything," he said.
        Baseball was still not in his path, although he loved the sport, having spent summer days hawking hot dogs at Navin Field in Detroit, where his aunt lived, and being a batboy for a North Carolina team in the Piedmont League.
        But six weeks into the 1939 season, Mr. Allen was hired to call Yankees and New York Giants' home games when the assistant to Arch McDonald, the main announcer, mocked the sponsor, Ivory Soap, calling it "Ovary Soap."
        When Mr. McDonald left during the season, Mr. Allen became the teams' lead announcer through 1942. He spent three years in the United States Army then signed an exclusive deal with the Yankees in 1946, when the team signed a contract to broadcast all 154 home and away games on WINS-AM.
        In all, he called 20 World Series and 24 All-Star Games, and was present for  nearly every major Yankees event: Joe DiMaggio's 56-game hitting streak in 1941  (the home portion), Mickey Mantle's tape-measure swats and Roger Maris's 61 home runs. He dubbed Joe DiMaggio "Joltin' Joe," and Tommy Henrich "Old Reliable." Through his "Ballantine Blasts" and "White Owl" wallops, Mr. Allen may have sold more beer and cigars than any sportscaster of his time.
        He introduced Lou Gehrig at his July 4, 1939, farewell and Babe Ruth at his sad 1948 adieu. Mr. Allen recalled seeing Mr. Gehrig, the stricken Yankee captain, ravaged by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, shuffle into the dugout one day in 1940.
        "Lou patted me on the thigh and said, 'Kid, I never listened to the broadcasts when I was playing, but now they're what keep me going,' " said Mr. Allen, who was then 27. "I went down the steps and bawled like a baby."
        It was in 1949, when DiMaggio hit three home runs in three games after a long absence because of a heel injury, that Mr. Allen shouted, "How about that!" each time DiMaggio homered. The phrase immediately caught on with fans.
        Mr. Allen, Mr. Barber's titular boss in the Bronx, also shared the Yankees microphone with Russ Hodges and Curt Gowdy, and broke in a raw Mr. Rizzuto. "His first question was about using some expression," Mr. Allen said. "He wanted to use 'Holy cow.' "
        Mr. Allen was abruptly fired after the 1964 season, soon after being replaced on the Yankees-Cardinals World Series telecasts by Mr. Rizzuto. Joe Garagiola was added to the Yankees' regular-season broadcast team for the following season to replace Mr. Allen.
        "He gave the Yankees his life and they broke his heart," said Mr. Barber, who would be fired two years later. Mr. Allen thought his firing was driven by cost-cutting at Ballantine, a team sponsor. Others said Ballantine felt he was too verbose, a peculiar criticism because Mr. Allen always talked a lot.
        Mr. Allen's voice was mostly silent for years after. He called Cleveland Indians games in 1968, and returned to call 40 Yankees' broadcasts annually on SportsChannel from 1978 to 1985. From 1977 almost to his death, Mr. Allen was the voice of the syndicated program, "This Week in Baseball," and had been the host of the MSG Network program "Yankees Magazine" since 1986.
        George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, recalled last night how in 1955 he called Mr. Allen, whom he did not know, for guidance on breaking into sports announcing.
        "He spoke to me for about 45 minutes, giving me advice and direction and spoke up for me at places like NBC," Mr. Steinbrenner said in a statement. "Even though in 1956 I took a coaching job at Purdue and did not pursue broadcasting,  I never forgot what he did for me.
        "The minute I bought the Yankees, I wanted to know where Mel Allen was and I  immediately brought him back to the organization. We had a friendship that has lasted to this day."
        Mr. Allen, the oldest of three children, never married. In addition to Mrs. Kaufman, Allen is survived by his brother, Larry, of Birmingham, Ala. Funeral arrangements had not been made yet.
        Correction:  July 17, 1996, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on June 17 about Mel Allen, who broadcast New York Yankees games from 1939 to 1964, misstated the number of home runs hit by Joe DiMaggio at Fenway Park in Boston in the first three games after his return from injury in 1949. It was four, not three.
      