
        Pandit Pran Nath, an internationally renowned Indian classical singer and the teacher of leading American composers, died at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley,  Calif., on Thursday. He was 77, and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said the composer La Monte Young, one of his disciples.
        Mr. Nath was a master of the kirana style, a 600-year-old school of Hindustani music that involves extraordinarily minute gradations of pitch. He sang with a grainy tone, virtually no vibrato and remarkable control and finesse, and his improvisations had a deeply contemplative aura. "The raga is created in between the tones," Mr. Nath often said.
        "He was a living encyclopedia of the ancient traditional compositions," Mr. Young said. "And he had an extraordinary knowledge of the proper delineation of  each raga." Ragas are connected to certain times of day, seasons and other natural and personal associations, and Mr. Nath insisted on performing them at the appropriate times.
        He also redesigned the tamboura, the stringed instrument that provides the droning sound in raga performances. He secured the instrument's upper bridge, changed the rounding of the resonating gourd and had instruments made without paint or varnish that might clog the pores of the wood, all to give the tamboura a richer tone.
        Western musicians who were fascinated by pure intonation and microtones -- the notes between the half-steps of a piano keyboard -- studied with Mr. Nath, among them Mr. Young and Terry Riley, who were pioneers of Minimalism.
        "I have never heard such pure intonation," Mr. Young wrote in liner notes to  one of Mr. Nath's albums.
        Mr. Nath was born in Lahore, which was then in India and is now part of Pakistan, and began singing as a child. When he wanted to study music, his family insisted that he complete regular schooling instead.
        At 13, when he decided to become a musician, his mother told him that he would have to leave the family home immediately, without a coat or other possessions, and he left. He wandered and listened to various master musicians until he found the singer who would be his teacher, Ustad Abdul Waheed Khan Sahib, who sang in the kirana style. The education was rigorous, with regular practice sessions 10 and 12 hours long.
        "My teacher is the ocean," Mr. Nath once said. "I am a drop."
        In his late 20's, Mr. Nath became a naga, a naked singing saint. For five years he sang devotional songs, clothed only in ashes. But Khan Sahib, who died  in 1950, requested that Mr. Nath give up the ascetic life in order to give concerts, perform on the radio and teach, so that the kirana style could be preserved and disseminated.
        Mr. Nath sang regularly on All India Radio from 1937 into the 1970's, and from 1960 to 1970 he taught advanced Hindustani vocal music at Delhi University, in a department that was created for him.
        Mr. Nath first toured the United States and Europe in 1970-71. After hearing  him, Terry Riley traveled to India to begin studying with him. Mr. Young and Jon Hassell, who applied Mr. Nath's vocal style to trumpet playing, also became his  students in the early 1970's.
        Later, he taught leading jazz and Minimalist composers, including Lee Konitz, Don Cherry, Rhys Chatham, Simone Forti, Jon Gibson, Charlemagne Palestine, Yoshi Wada and Marian Zazeela.
        Mr. Nath settled in New York in 1972, though he spent part of each year in California and in India. He was awarded fellowships for composition by New York State's CAPS program in 1974, by the Guggenheim Foundation in 1975 and by the National Endowment for the Arts. In 1976, the Pellizzi Foundation began recording an archive of his repertory; the archive was continued by the Dia Foundation and the Mela Foundation, and contains hundreds of performances. The Cortical Foundation in Malibu, Calif., plans to release recordings of Mr. Nath from the 1950's through the 80's.
        Beginning with a 1971 concert of morning ragas at Town Hall, Mr. Nath regularly performed raga cycles with concerts at different times, to provide the proper context for morning ragas, afternoon ragas, evening ragas and night ragas. His own compositions include three ragas and a few dozen other compositions.
        Mr. Nath was an artist in residence at the University of California, San Diego, in 1973, and from 1973 to 1984, he was a visiting professor of music at Mills College in Oakland, Calif. In 1985, he moved to the San Francisco area, and he continued to teach in the United States, Canada, Europe and India. His album "Ragas of Morning and Night" was released by Gramavision Records in 1986,  and Mr. Nath performed with the Kronos Quartet on its album "Short Stories" (Nonesuch). He toured the United States and Europe regularly, most recently in Europe in February.
        He is survived by his wife, Rani Budhiraja Nath; by a son, Bhuwanneshwar, of  Iselin, N.J.; by three daughters, Shashi Maini of Berkeley, Kiran Arora of New York City and Uma Maini of New Delhi, and by seven grandchildren.
      