
        Abraham Rosen, who founded a Harlem discount store that has survived recessions, fire and unrest among people of different heritage and skin color, died on Sunday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 85.
        A resident of Fort Lee, N.J., Mr. Rosen came to the United States from Poland as a boy. He had been a merchant in Harlem since 1938, when he and his brothers, Sam and Irving, opened separate businesses in the neighborhood.
        In 1961, Abraham Rosen founded Bargain World at 8 West 125th Street with about a dozen employees. Today, it has 40 to 50 employees selling "everything except clothes and food," in the words of his son, Arthur, of Bergen County, N.J., who now handles the business.
        Until late last year, the hardest time for the Rosens and their business was  probably the late fall of 1980, when an electrical fire gutted the store and the insurance turned out to be inadequate. Weeks later, father and son were mugged in front of the store. Abraham Rosen was pistol-whipped, and his son was shot.
        In an interview last year, Arthur Rosen reminisced about rising, quite literally, from the ashes. "I had a burned-out building that the family owned in the middle of Harlem and a business that had supported us all these years," he said. "So we put it all back together again."
        Abraham Rosen retired in 1983, his son said, but he still put in appearances  in the Christmas shopping season. He was there last Christmas Eve, not long after a gunman walked into Freddy's, a clothing store a few doors away, shot four people and set a fire, killing eight people, including himself.
        The day after the attack, which the police say was racially motivated, protesters stood in front of Bargain World -- like Freddy's, a white-owned store in a black neighborhood -- and promised to drive it out of the neighborhood.
        But many other shoppers in Harlem stopped to greet his father and offer words of support, Arthur Rosen said yesterday.
        Besides his son, Mr. Rosen is survived by his wife, Sheva; a daughter, Leta Gordon, of Bergen County, and four grandchildren.
      