
        Boris Leavitt, a founder of one of the country's first successful direct-marketing companies and a collector of contemporary art seen in museums throughout the country, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Palm Beach.
        Mr. Leavitt's life was an American success story, taking him from Russia to Ellis Island in 1921 at the age of 16 and to an early struggle for survival on the Lower East Side. He swept floors and, while still in his teens, worked his way up to a clerk's and interpreter's job at the Public National Bank and Trust  Company.
        He attended New York Law School at night, completing the course work but never going into practice. Instead, he and his wife, Sophie, opened an apparel store in 1934 in Hanover, Pa., and the business soon grew into a chain of a dozen shops.
        After World War II, the couple advertised their better merchandise in magazines and entered the fairly new medium of specialty catalogues, which they  mailed out under the chain's name, Lana Lobell. More catalogues were added in the 1960's, and by 1972 the Leavitts had almost 2,000 employees. They sold the business in 1972 to the Horn & Hardart Company and retired a few years later, after which Mr. Leavitt devoted his time to art collecting, investments and philanthropy. The business later became known as Hanover Direct, which reported  revenue of $750 million last year.
        Represented in the Leavitt collection were artists like de Kooning, Giacometti and Pollack. The Leavitts donated and lent works to institutions like the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Norton Museum in Palm Beach.
        Mr. Leavitt also contributed to educational institutions and charities, including the United Jewish Appeal and New York Law School, which awarded him an honorary doctorate of laws last week.
        Even after he was declared legally blind because of a degenerative eye infection, he continued until recently to counsel struggling companies and young entrepreneurs as volunteer for the Service Corps of Retired Executives, which is sponsored by the Small Business Administration.
        Sophie Leavitt died in 1992. Mr. Leavitt is survived by two sons, Alan J., of Lexington, Ky., and David L., of Coatesville, Pa.; a daughter, Lana Rosenfeld of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      