
        Sir Fitzroy Maclean, an intrepid Scot known for his farflung military adventures in World War II and his writings about faraway lands, died on Saturday at the home of friends whom he and his wife were visiting in the English county of Hertford. He was 85 and lived in Strachur House, the family home in Strachur, a village in the Scottish county of Argyll.
        Sir Fitzroy, who was made a baronet in 1957, died of a heart attack, said his son Charles Maclean, who is the heir to the baronetcy.
        Sir Fitzroy was also a diplomat in Stalin's Soviet Union in the 1930's, a longtime Conservative Member of Parliament, Parliamentary Undersecretary of State for War in the 1950's, a traveler and the author of a score of books.
        "To some people, my life might seem one long adventure holiday," he said in an interview late last year, "blowing up forts in the desert, clandestinely parachuting into guerrilla wars, penetrating forbidden cities deep behind closed frontiers."
        During World War II he parachuted into Yugoslavia while it was occupied by the Germans. He went on to work with Tito and he has been widely credited with a substantial role in Winston Churchill's decision, during the war, to back Tito instead of a rival partisan leader in Yugoslavia.
        Charles Maclean observed yesterday, "Some would say that decision had already been made" by Churchill. But Mr. Maclean noted that it is also widely said that  Sir Fitzroy's "friendship with Tito through war had a dramatic effect on what Yugoslavia would become after the war."
        After the war, Charles Maclean went on, "the moment when Tito defied Stalin was a very important moment for world history, and some would say that my father had influenced Tito through the years they knew each other, but others would say that's overrated."
        In 1948, a split occurred between the Yugoslav and Soviet Communist parties,  and the Tito Government began to act independently in the field of foreign relations.
        The best known of Sir Fitzroy's books is "Escape to Adventure" (1950), an account of his experiences as a diplomat and officer and his first years as a member of Parliament, which was first published in Britain in 1949 as "Eastern Approaches." Reviewing it in The New York Times, C. L. Sulzberger, then The Times's chief foreign correspondent, called it an important historical document. "Furthermore," he wrote, "it is good reading and gives insight into the adventurous character" of some denizens of the British Isles.
        Sir Fitzroy Hew Maclean of Dunconnel, who became the 15th Hereditary Keeper and Captain of Dunconnel, was born in Cairo, the son of Charles Maclean, a British Army major, and the former Gladys Royle. He went on to graduate from Eton and, with first-class honors, from Cambridge University in 1932.
        In maturity he was a tall, handsome, broad-browed, imposing, energetic figure. In later years, some claimed that he was the model for James Bond, the daredevil hero in novels by Ian Fleming.
        As a diplomat Sir Fitzroy was assigned to Paris in 1934, but he became intrigued by the Soviet Union and got himself transferred to Moscow in 1937. In  the Soviet Union, his skill at audacious and unorthodox activities aided him in  traveling across Central Asia to Afghanistan and back again.
        Once more in the Soviet capital, he reported on purge trials for the British  Foreign Office and won admiration for his skill in summarizing and appraising their causes and effects.
        In 1939, he resigned from the diplomatic service. In 1941 he was elected to Parliament (he remained a member until 1974) and joined the British Army as a private. He went on to be an officer -- eventually a major general -- and to serve in the elite Special Air Service.
        While in the army, in late 1942, Sir Fitzroy was sent to what was then Persia, where he was told at the British Embassy, as he recalled in "Escape to Adventure," that tribes in southern Persia had German agents living among them and seemed likely to stage a rebellion and perhaps cut the British military supply route to the Persian Gulf.
        "A sinister part was being played in all this by a certain General Zahidi," who was thought to be in cahoots with tribal leaders and in touch with German agents in the hills, Sir Fitzroy recalled. He wangled his way into the general's house and in his book tells what happened next:
        "When, a couple of minutes later, General Zahidi, a dapper figure in highly polished boots, entered the room, he found himself looking down the barrel of my Colt automatic. Without further ado, I invited the general to put his hands up and informed him that I had instructions to arrest him and that, if he made any  noise or attempt at resistance, he would be shot."
        Sir Fitzroy and his men spirited the general away past unsuspecting Persian troops and a British plane eventually flew him to what was then Palestine.
        Sir Fitzroy's arrival by parachute in Yugoslavia was in 1943 after Churchill  had written to his Foreign Secretary: "Mr. Fitzroy Maclean, M.P., is a man of daring character, with Foreign Office training. He is to go to Yugoslavia and work with Tito. What we want is a daring Ambassador-leader with these hardy and hunted guerrillas."
        In the last years of Sir Fitzroy's life, his work included making television  documentaries, writing, and commenting on Soviet history. In addition, he and his wife made one of the first mercy missions into the war-torn former Yugoslavia, taking a truck with medical supplies through Bosnia to the island of Korcula, which, Charles Maclean said yesterday, "he had liberated in the Second  World War when with Tito" and where the Macleans had a home.
        In addition to his wife of 50 years, the Hon. Lady Veronica Maclean (a daughter of the 16th Baron Lovat) and his son Charles, Sir Fitzroy is survived by another son, James, and three grandchildren.
      