
        Paul M. Schlem, a leading figure in the American wine industry for more than  30 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 71, and until recently also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Margaret Gramble of Patterson, N.Y.
        At various times in his career, Mr. Schlem was the chairman and principal owner of Gold Seal Vineyards of Hammondsport, N.Y.; the owner of International Vineyards of Chualar, Calif.; the chairman and principal owner of Vintners International of Gonzales, Calif., and, at the time of his death, the chairman and chief executive of Sabrina Importers of Manhattan.
        That company, a family business established in 1993 with his daughter and his son, Gary, of Mahopac, N.Y., imports European and South American wines.
        A skilled negotiator, Mr. Schlem attracted widespread publicity in 1987, when he put together a $250 million leveraged buyout that made Vintners International the owner of the troubled table wine and sparkling wine units of Joseph E. Seagram & Sons.
        In so doing, Mr. Schlem acquired the West Coast labels Paul Masson and Taylor California Cellars and the New York champagnes Taylor and Great Western.
        He also reacquired Gold Seal, the small New York winery in upstate New York with which he entered the business in 1962 and which -- after building it into a major property -- he had sold to Seagram's in 1980.
        Mr. Schlem, who was born in Vienna in 1924, was a teen-ager in 1940 when his  mother, Bessie, put him and his sister, Charlotte, on the last train out of Budapest before the Nazis arrived.
        The children, who were to be reunited with their widowed mother after World War II, reached the United States and settled with an uncle in Caldwell, N.J., where Mr. Schlem finished high school.
        He served in the Army in Europe, then attended New York University on the G.I. Bill, earning a bachelor of arts degree in 1947. He became a certified public accountant in 1950.
        One of his company's clients was Gold Seal, then a small winery in upstate New York known for champagne and a few table wines.
        Mr. Schlem, although not a wine connoisseur, saw a business opportunity in Gold Seal. In 1962, with two cousins, Martin and Arthur Brody of Caldwell, N.J., and a few other investors, he bought the company.
        As chairman and principal owner, he presided over the company's growth from a producer of perhaps 100,000 cases of wine a year to one million before he sold it to Seagram's in 1980.
        After the sale, until 1987, he deepened his involvement in International Vineyards, a complex occupying some 900 acres that produced the grapes for such  California wines as chardonnay, merlot and cabernet sauvignon.
        In 1987 Mr. Schlem, who maintained a home in Pebble Beach, Calif., for many years, became an executive of Vintners International, which was sold in late 1993 to the Canandaigua Wine Company of Canandaigua, N.Y.
        In addition to his son and daughter, Mr. Schlem is survived by his wife, Anita; his sister, Charlotte Eglick of Wyncote, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      