
        Edward Dugmore, an abstract painter whose work is to be featured in an exhibition opening next month at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, died on June 13 at his home in Minneapolis. He was 81.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Linda Hooper of the Manny Silverman Gallery in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Dugmore was born and reared in Hartford, and received his bachelor's degree at the Hartford Art School. In 1940 he studied with Thomas Hart Benton at what was then the Kansas City Art Institute.
        After serving in the Marine Corps in World War II, he studied at the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, where he was influenced by Abstract Expressionist artists: Clyfford Still, who was teaching there, and Ernest Briggs, a fellow student, both of whom remained friends thereafter. He continued his studies in Mexico and received his master's degree in fine arts at the University of Guadalajara.
        In 1952 Mr. Dugmore moved to New York, where his paintings were exhibited at  the Stable Gallery. In the 1960's his works were shown at the Howard Wise Gallery, and in the 1970's at the Green Mountain Gallery.
        Three of his 1950's abstract paintings -- "Untitled" from 1954, "Number 30" from 1952 and "Tlaquepaque 12" from 1952 -- are included in "San Francisco School of Abstract Expressionism," an exhibition opening on July 18 at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
        In 1980, Mr. Dugmore was honored with an award by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. In 1995, he received the Pollock-Krasner Foundation's Lifetime Achievement Award.
        Mr. Dugmore's paintings are in the collections of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and the Corcoran Gallery of Art and the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, both in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Edith Oslund, and a daughter, Linda Shannon, both of Minneapolis, three grandsons and two brothers, Leonard, of Clear Lake Oaks, Calif., and Stanley, of Las Vegas.
      