
        Robert N. Wilentz, who in 17 years as Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court tried to streamline the state courts, make them more accessible and use them to promote his vision of social progress and equality, died yesterday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 69.
        Justice Wilentz, who also had a home in Deal, N.J., announced on June 13 that he had cancer. He retired on July 1 because he could no longer carry out his duties. He would have reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 next Feb. 17.
        The death of Chief Justice Robert Wilentz is a loss to all of the citizens  of New Jersey." Justice Wilentz's successor, Chief Justice Deborah T. Poritz, said in a statement last night. "His dignity, his integrity and his compassion set a standard we can only strive to emulate."
        Robert Nathan Wilentz, whose father was a legendary Democratic Party power in New Jersey, had never been a judge when he was selected by Gov. Brendan T. Byrne in 1979 to head the seven-member New Jersey high court.
        Under his leadership, the State Supreme Court backed the rights of poor people to live in the suburbs. It imposed a responsibility on party hosts to make sure that their guests do not drink to excess and cause accidents. It allowed testimony by experts on the "battered woman syndrome" to bolster claims  of self-defense when women kill abusive husbands or boyfriends.
        What made Justice Wilentz an effective chief justice, in the opinion of those who followed his career, was his ability to see political realities and his willingness to push for regulatory and administrative machinery to enforce the court's decrees.
        "He didn't just make decisions and leave others to see to them," Thomas M. O'Neill, executive director of the Partnership for New Jersey, said in an interview. The partnership is a nonprofit association of chief executives that studies state issues.
        Mr. O'Neill called Justice Wilentz "a realistic politician who was willing to do the right thing." The justice's political astuteness came not only from his famous father, David T. Wilentz, but also from his own tenure in the New Jersey  Assembly.
        Legal observers have called the Wilentz court one of the best state high courts in the country. They cited the Chief Justice's ability, through intellect and persuasion, to achieve unanimous or nearly unanimous decisions much of the time. Many consensuses were reached during 10-hour discussions in the Chief Justice's chambers, in which he would ply the justices with pickled herring, lox and coffee cake.
        Robert N. Wilentz was elected to the New Jersey Assembly in 1965.  "He had a  presence from his first day in the House, and was the kind of person others asked for advice," a fellow lawmaker recalled several years later.
        His energy, debating skill and intellect were no surprise to those who knew that he had been valedictorian at Perth Amboy High School, and that at Columbia  Law School he was a Harlan Fiske Scholar and won the Robert Noxon Toppan Prize in Constitutional Law studies.
        Robert Wilentz was born on Feb. 17, 1927, the son of David T. and Lena Wilentz. He spent his boyhood in Perth Amboy. He entered Princeton, took two years off to serve in the Navy, then graduated from Harvard in 1949 before going to Columbia Law School.
        He was elected to a second term in the Assembly in 1967 but chose not to run  for a third term in 1969.
        By the time he left office, he had earned a reputation for brilliance and integrity and for not suffering fools gladly. He was often called to serve on committees by governors, and flirted with a run for governor himself in 1973.
        When Governor Byrne picked Mr. Wilentz to be Chief Justice, he jokingly said  he had done so on the basis of tennis ability. Justice Wilentz had won several amateur tournaments and, as he said in a 1993 interview, "I had never, ever thought about being a judge of any kind."
        Two years after becoming Chief Justice, Justice Wilentz decreed that nonlawyers should have places on most court-related committees. He thought that  many people felt isolated from the courts.
        Justice Wilentz created a commission in 1982 to study the treatment of women  in the courts. The 31-member panel reported a year later that widespread bias existed, that women were treated unequally as lawyers and in decisions, especially in domestic violence or divorce cases.
        "There's no room for gender bias in our system," Justice Wilentz said. "There's no room for the funny joke and the not-so-funny joke, there's no room for conscious, inadvertent, sophisticated, clumsy, or any other kind of gender bias."
        He instructed judges to record their observations of bias and to attend courses on it.
        In 1982, the Chief Justice ordered a reorganization of the trial court system, increasing the number of Superior Court districts from 12 to 15 and drawing new boundaries.
        In 1983, Justice Wilentz spoke out against a State Senate tradition that allowed a senator to block an appointment on a personal say-so.
        That year, Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Republican from Demarest in Bergen County, wanted to use senatorial privilege to block the reappointment of Judge Sylvia B. Pressler, a Democrat from Englewood, to the Appellate Division of Superior Court. The Senator found fault with some of the judge's decisions and called her "abrasive and arrogant."
        Departing from the reticence traditional for high-ranking judges, Justice Wilentz condemned Senator Cardinale's actions, as did Gov. Thomas H. Kean. Judge Pressler eventually won reappointment.
        There was a paradox in Justice Wilentz's stand on privilege. His father, as boss of the Middlesex County Democratic organization for years, could and did handpick candidates for offices.
        David Wilentz achieved fame because of one of the most notorious crimes in history, the 1932 kidnapping and murder of Charles A. Lindbergh Jr.
        David T. Wilentz, who came to the United States from Latvia as a child, was New Jersey Attorney General in 1935, when he prosecuted the murder-kidnapping suspect, Bruno R. Hauptmann, in a trial in Flemington. A jaunty man who loved cigars and passed that love on to his son, Mr.  Wilentz was a relentless prosecutor. He won a conviction, and Hauptmann was executed in 1936.
        For years afterward, David Wilentz headed a law firm in Perth Amboy that became one of the most influential in the state. He worked almost until his death at 93 in 1988.
        Perhaps the most important ruling of the Wilentz court was a 1983 decision involving poor people and the suburbs. The ruling was a follow-up to a 1975 high court decree that developing suburbs could not use zoning to close their doors.  The 1975 ruling became known as the Mount Laurel decision. The court held that Mount Laurel and other wealthy communities could not zone out poor people, in Mount Laurel's case by codes tailored for big one-family homes, with no apartments allowed.
        Convinced that suburbs were slow in obeying the 1975 ruling, the Supreme Court took the original ruling a step further. In 1983, the justices held unanimously that suburbs that did not have their "fair share" of the poor had to allow construction of affordable housing, seek government subsidies for it and offer tax breaks for builders. The Legislature eventually adopted a compromise plan, which those who applauded the 1983 ruling criticized as weak.
        Governor Kean, a Republican, renominated Justice Wilentz in 1986, at the end  of his seven-year term. The Senate debate on the renomination was intense. Senators who disliked his judicial activism seized their chance to say so.
        There was also a personal issue. The Chief Justice was virtually living in Manhattan to be close to his wife, Jacqueline, who was being treated for cancer. Some senators disliked the idea that New Jersey's top judge was living on the other side of the Hudson River, and they asked where he would live if reconfirmed.
        He said that if his wife's condition improved he would spend most weekdays in Perth Amboy. Mr. Kean pushed for reconfirmation, and by a vote of 21 to 19 the Chief Justice avoided becoming the first Supreme Court member in state history to be denied reappointment and tenure. Shortly after, he announced that he would make his summer home in Deal his permanent residence.
        The Chief Justice committed what was widely seen as a public relations blunder in 1990, when he refused to allow the Essex County Courthouse to be used in the movie "The Bonfire of the Vanities." He did so, he said, because the scene would portray disruptive behavior by black people.
        His decision cost Essex County $250,000 from the movie makers. Months later,  a Federal judge ruled that the Chief Justice had violated First Amendment guarantees of free speech.
        In his later years as Chief Justice, he sometimes disagreed with Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican who took office in 1994. In the middle of that year, an assistant attorney general went before the court to ask for more time for the administration to close the gap in spending between rich school districts and poor ones.
        The state high court had ordered equal financing 20 years before, then reinforced that decree with a new order in 1990. But the ideal seemed ever more  elusive. So in 1994, Justice Wilentz looked at the assistant attorney general and asked, "How long should the court wait?"
        On one major issue, capital punishment, Justice Wilentz was reticent about his personal beliefs. From the time the State Legislature enacted a new death-penalty statute in 1982, two decades after the last execution in New Jersey, until 1991 the state high court reversed all 27 death sentences that came before it.
        Then, in quick succession, the court affirmed three death sentences. (None have yet been carried out.) Justice Wilentz said public pressure in favor of executions had played no part in the turnabout.
        Justice Wilentz's wife, a painter, died in 1989. The survivors are his companion of recent years, Araminta Mustafa; a daughter, Amy, of Jerusalem and Manhattan; two sons, James, of Manhattan, and Thomas, of Mahopac, N.Y.; a brother, Warren, of Woodbridge, N.J.; a sister, Norma Hess of Manhattan and New  Jersey, who is married to Leon Hess, the owner of the New York Jets, and five grandsons.
      