
        Raphael Patai, a cultural anthropologist who turned the stories of the Jewish people into the story of his life as a preeminent scholar of Jewish and Middle Eastern studies, died on Saturday at the home of a daughter in Tucson, Ariz. He  was 85.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Dr. Jennifer Schneider.  Her father, a long-time resident of Forest Hills, Queens, had come to Tucson a week earlier, she said.
        A native of Budapest whose father was a prominent scholar, writer and Zionist, Mr. Patai was so fascinated with the folk tales his father helped record and publish that he made the study of folklore the centerpiece of his life as a scholar.
        Mr. Patai ranged far afield, specializing in both the life of the ancient Jewish people and the culture of the modern Middle East. He was the author of more than three dozen books on Jewish and Arab culture, history, politics, psychology and folklore.
        Among his titles are "Golden River to Golden Road: Society, Culture and Change in the Middle East" (1962), "Myth and Legend of Ancient Israel" (1966), "The Myth of the Jewish Race" (1975), written with his daughter, then Jennifer Wing; "The Arab Mind" (1976), "The Jewish Mind" (1977), "The Seed of Abraham: Jews and Arabs in Contact and Conflict" (1983) and "The Jews of Hungary: History, Culture, Psychology," published this year.
        As a scholar, Mr. Patai, whose name rhymes with Hawaii, was well prepared. After studying at the University of Breslau Rabbinical Seminary and receiving a  doctorate and a rabbinical diploma from the University of Budapest, he followed  his own Zionist impulses and studied at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, where he received the university's first doctorate, in 1936.
        He did his initial work in Palestine. But when the war that led to Israel's founding made it difficult for a pioneering anthropologist to find support for his research, he came to the United States, in 1947. He held a series of academic posts, teaching first at the old Dropsie College in Philadelphia and later at the Herzel Institute in New York and Fairleigh Dickinson University in  Rutherford, N.J.
        Although he was a thoroughgoing scholar whose idea of a vacation in Paris was to hole up in the French national library, Mr. Patai was a storyteller at heart. In his books he told and retold the ancient tales, using the interpretive techniques of modern scholarship to illuminate the lives of ancient Jews.
        If some see the stories of the Old Testament, for example, as the literal historical truth and others perceive them as religious parables, Mr. Patai tended to see them as windows into the everyday, often roiling and rollicking life, culture and psychology of an ancient people.
        One of his early works on the subject, "Man and Temple in Ancient Jewish Myth and Ritual" (1947), drew a fan letter from the poet Robert Graves, who pointed out similarities between ancient Hebrew and ancient Roman myths.
        Not one to let such a notion pass, Mr. Patai engaged Mr. Graves in correspondence and got three books out of it: "Hebrew Myths: the Book of Genesis," a 1964 collaboration with Mr. Graves; "The Hebrew Goddess," Mr. Patai's solo elaboration of their joint thesis that the stories of an ancient Jewish goddess-worshiping sect had been excised from Scripture, and "Robert Graves and the Hebrew Myths," Mr. Patai's 1992 account of their collaboration, including their correspondence.
        Although his works were written primarily for other scholars, Mr. Patai knew  the value of a catchy title. He called a 1959 book "Sex and Family in the Bible  and the Middle East."
        After spending his life taking notes on a yellow legal tablet, then painstakingly composing his works on a manual typewriter, he was given a word processor on his 80th birthday. He mastered the new tool and turned out eight books in his last five years, including "Jewish Seafaring in Ancient Times," which is awaiting publication.
        He also composed a third of the 1,200 entries for a projected encyclopedia on Jewish folklore that his family hopes to have completed.
        In addition to Dr. Schneider, Mr. Patai, who was married three times, is survived by another daughter, Daphne Patai of Amherst, Mass.; his companion, Simone Boy of Forest Hills; a brother, Prof. Saul Patai of Jerusalem, and two grandchildren.
      