
        Kenneth Hollister Straus, a New York philanthropist and the last of the Straus family to be a top executive of R. H. Macy & Company, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 71 and had homes on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Palm Beach, Fla.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Straus was a scion of the family of merchant princes who ruled Macy's, the New York-based chain of department stores, until his father, Jack I. Straus, relinquished his posts as chairman and chief executive in 1968.
        Kenneth Straus began working at Macy's in 1947. He was a company director, chairman of corporate buying and senior vice president for domestic and international corporate buying when he retired in 1986, the same year that the retailer was taken private in a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout. Macy's is now owned by Federated Department Stores.
        In retirement, Mr. Straus devoted himself to civic activities, working from an office on Madison Avenue. Aside from St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center, of  which he was a trustee, his beneficiaries included the Episcopal Church and the  members and families of the city's Police and Fire Departments.
        Born in Manhattan, he graduated from Milton Academy and the New York University School of Retailing. He served in the Army as an enlisted infantryman in World War II.
        Macy's was founded in 1858 by Rowland Hussey Macy. Macy was later joined by Lazarus Straus, Kenneth Straus's great-great-grandfather, who had arrived from Germany six years earlier. Lazarus Straus's sons, Isidor and Nathan, bought control of the company from Mr. Macy's heirs but kept the name.
        Isidor and his wife died when the Titanic sank on her maiden voyage in 1912,  but the family remained in charge and eventually built Macy's into one of the country's largest department-store chains. Isidor's son, Jesse I. Straus, served as Ambassador to France and Macy's president until he handed the reins to Jack,  Kenneth Straus's father.
        In 1930, former Gov. Alfred E. Smith, Mayor James J. Walker and the cream of  New York business and politics watched a 5-year-old Kenneth Straus lay the cornerstone of Macy's expansion to Seventh Avenue. Once finished, the addition made Macy's Herald Square the largest store on earth.
        Mr. Straus became an honorary commissioner of both the Police and Fire Departments. He was a trustee of the New York City Police Foundation and chairman of its Crime Stoppers program. He was president of the Fire Foundation  and remained active in various other civilian support groups.
        His other associations included the National Executive Service Corps, the Child Welfare League of America, the Spence Chapin Adoption Agency, the Eastside Community Center, Boy Scouts of America and the New York City Partnership. He was a prominent presence in the Episcopal Diocese of New York, the Episcopal Mission Society and the church's Board of Foreign Parishes.
        Mr. Straus is survived by his wife, Brenda Neubauer Straus; a daughter, Melinda S. Schwartz of Davie, Fla.; a son, Timothy A. of Atlanta; two sisters, Patricia Harrah of Greenwich, Conn., and Pamela Haber of San Francisco, and four grandchildren. His first wife, Elizabeth Browne Straus, to whom he was married for 45 years, died in 1991.
      