
        David McCampbell, naval aviation's ace of aces who shot 34 Japanese planes out of the sky during World War II in exploits that won him the Medal of Honor,  died on Sunday at the Veterans Affairs Nursing Home Care Unit in Riviera Beach,  Fla.
        Captain McCampbell, who lived in Lake Worth, Fla., until he was hospitalized  about a year ago, was 86.
        Before he retired from active duty in 1964 after 31 years of service, his long military career took him from the ranks of midshipmen at Annapolis to the command of the attack aircraft carrier Bon Homme Richard and the post of chief of the plans division of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. But Captain McCampbell achieved his greatest renown as commander of Air Group 15 in the first and second battles of the Philippine Sea in 1944.
        The citation for the Medal of Honor, which President Franklin D. Roosevelt bestowed on the hero, then a commander, at the time, stated his feats succinctly:
        "An inspiring leader, fighting boldly in the face of terrific odds, Cmdr. McCampbell led his fighter planes against a force of 80 Japanese carrier-based aircraft bearing down on our fleet on 19 June 1944. Striking fiercely in valiant defense of our surface force, he personally destroyed seven hostile planes during this single engagement during which the outnumbering attack force was utterly routed and virtually annihilated.
        "During a major fleet engagement with the enemy on 24 October, Commander McCampbell, assisted by but one plane, intercepted and daringly attacked a formation of 60 hostile land-based craft approaching our forces. Fighting desperately but with superb skill against such overwhelming airpower, he shot down nine Japanese planes and, completely disorganizing the enemy group, forced  the remainder to abandon the attack before a single aircraft could reach the fleet."
        The nine planes dispatched in 95 minutes by Commander McCampbell and his Grumman Hellcat were regarded as the war's record for a mission.
        Operating off the carrier Essex, the air group he commanded, which included bombers and torpedo planes as well as the fighter squadron he led, lost not a single bomber or torpedo plane to enemy aircraft in 200 missions. His group shot down 314 Japanese planes, destroyed 348 on the ground and probably accounted for the destruction of 194 more, according to the military.
        On its own or in conjunction with other groups, Air Group 15 sank 37 Japanese ships and probably sank 10 more. Its solo kills included an aircraft carrier, a  destroyer and a destroyer escort. With other air groups, it took part in the sinking of two carriers, a heavy cruiser, the probable sinking of a battleship and a light cruiser, and the damaging of 3 battleships, a carrier, 5 heavy cruisers, 3 light cruisers and 19 destroyers.
        On the day that Commander McCampbell shot down nine Japanese planes and chased the rest of the vast fighter formation back to Manila, he landed with only two rounds of ammunition in his six machine guns and six gallons of gasoline -- enough to keep his fighter in the air for 10 minutes.
        When an air-combat intelligence officer marveled how he had managed to make his ammunition last, Commander McCampbell said: "Well, it looked like a long fight, so I nursed my ammunition. I waited until I'd get right on a Jap's tail.  Then I'd fire only short bursts."
        As for the gasoline, he said: "I wasn't worried. I had drained the tank a half-dozen times to make sure I had the readings on the gauge down pat."
        Captain McCampbell was born on Jan. 16, 1910, in Bessemer, Ala., and moved at an early age to West Palm Beach, Fla. In 1933, he graduated with degree in engineering from the United States Naval Academy.
        Because of Depression-related cuts in military personnel, he did not receive  his commission until 1934, when he was recalled to active duty.  In June 1942, he was assigned to the Pacific. In 1943 he took command of Air Group 15, which joined the Essex in April 1944 and saw almost continuous combat for the next six months as it participated in air-sea battles and supported amphibious landings on Saipan, Tinian, Guam, Pelilu, Iwo Jima and at Leyte.
        He is survived by his wife, Frieda Bouffleur of Lake Worth, Fla.; three children by previous marriages, Frances Ring, David P. McCampbell and John C. McCampbell, and four grandchildren.
      