
        Colin Mitchell, a British officer who sacrificed his military career for one  moment of glory in 1967, died last Saturday at his home in London. He was 70.
        After a brief tenure in Parliament and a later career as an itinerant military consultant, he won renewed public recognition as a founding director of a charity that clears land mines from former war zones.
        It was in Aden, the capital of a British protectorate then known as South Arabia and now part of Yemen, that Mr. Mitchell became a British folk hero as the man who recaptured a rebel stronghold in 1967 with bagpipe and drum.
        Two weeks earlier, Aden policemen had joined insurgents in driving British forces out of the city's Arab quarter, the bowl of an extinct volcano known as the Crater district.
        Twenty-two British soldiers had died in the battle, and with 500 heavily armed and entrenched insurgents holding the district, military authorities seemed in no hurry to risk further casualties in the all-out assault they believed would be necessary to recapture it.
        Mr. Mitchell felt the call of destiny. He was, after all, a lieutenant colonel in command of a battalion of a storied Scottish regiment known as the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, and there were traditions to uphold, traditions he took personally.
        A native of London, Mr. Mitchell had grown up more Scottish than a native, invariably wearing a kilt to the local Presbyterian church.
        He was also a military man to his core. Believed to have been the youngest member of the Home Guard when he enlisted in 1940 at the age of 17, Mr. Mitchell, who joined the army in 1943, was a fervent colonialist who had had a distinguished and varied military career, in Italy and a succession of postwar hot spots, fighting Zionists in what was then Palestine, Communists in Malaya and the Mau Mau in Kenya. He gave a military commission to Idi Amin, the future  dictator of Uganda.
        On the night of July 3, 1967, acting against the express wishes of his own commander, Colonel Mitchell ordered the regimental bagpipe to sound the chilling strains of the regimental charge, "Monymusk," and with accompanying drum, the battalion marched into the teeth of the enemy.
        By dawn, having fired only a few shots, suffered not a single casualty and killed only one rebel, they recaptured and secured the stronghold, and Mr. Mitchell was a national hero known as Mad Mitch.
        Although he later defended his decision, saying it had saved hundreds of Arab and Argyll lives, Mr. Mitchell's superiors were furious with his unauthorized heroism.
        When he failed to receive a decoration, he resigned from the army and almost  immediately became a leader of a drive that succeeded in saving the regiment from being disbanded in a wave of military cutbacks.
        His role in the save-the-Argyll campaign propelled him to Parliament from a Tory district in northeast Scotland in 1970, but he did not run for re-election  in 1974 and eventually became something akin to a soldier of fortune, advising rebels in Afghanistan and the contras in Nicaragua.
        In 1987, he and other former military officers formed the Halo Trust, which has been in the forefront of efforts to clear away the land mines that have killed and maimed thousands in former war zones.
        Mr. Mitchell, whose family did not disclose the cause of death, is survived by his wife, Susan, and two children.
      