
        Dr. David Valinsky, a statistician who applied his skills to civil rights issues ranging from voting rights to police hiring, died on July 19 at the Westchester County Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        He had suffered a long illness, said a spokesman for Baruch College, where he was Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus of Statistics.
        Dr. Valinksy was the principal architect of graduate programs in statistics  and computer information systems at the City University of New York. He introduced more than 50 undergraduate and graduate courses in statistics, operations theory and decision theory during his 45 years as a teacher and administrator. As a statistician, he was frequently called on for expert testimony and advice on equal voting rights.
        In 1972, a Federal court in Montgomery, Ala., ordered a drastic reapportionment of electoral districts for the State Legislature in a case brought by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a group of disfranchised black Alabamans. After the Legislature failed to come up with a plan acceptable to the court, the A.C.L.U. brought in Dr. Valinsky, who did.
        He also drew up electoral reapportionment plans for Mississippi in the 1970's and testified in cases involving jury selection and discrimination in police hiring and promotion.
        He was a fellow of Britain's Royal Statistical Society as well as a consultant for the New York Mayor's office, the Justice Department and the Civil Aeronautics Board.
        In New York, he advised on such matters as the optimal number of firefighting units and where to base them, and the most efficient deployment of blood banks,  microscopy laboratories and operating-room schedules in city hospitals.
        David Valinsky was born in Atlantic City and graduated from Temple University in science of education, specializing in sociology and economics. He received a  master's degree in statistics from City College in 1943 and a Ph.D., also in statistics, from Columbia University in 1962.
        He started his teaching career at Baruch in 1940. He was chairman of the department of statistics and computer information systems from 1970 to 1983 and  developed the City University of New York's doctoral program in quantitative analysis, Baruch's M.B.A. program in operations research and many undergraduate  specializations in statistics and computer operations. After retiring in 1985, he worked as a consultant and an expert witness in age discrimination cases brought against employers.
        Dr. Valinsky is survived by his wife of 58 years, Helen Abrams Valinsky; a son, Eric, of Manhattan; a sister, Ruth Gove, of Philadelphia, and a grandson.
      