
        S. Perry Schlesinger, who helped develop a type of laser used in operating rooms, died on Monday in Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Schlesinger, who spent 31 years at Columbia University as a professor of electrical engineering, focused his research on plasma physics, electromagnetics and microwaves. With a Columbia colleague, Thomas Marshall, he devised the high-power Raman free-electron laser in collaboration with the Naval Research Laboratories.
        The laser was named for C. V. Raman, the Indian scientist who in 1928 first observed the scattering of light from a gas, liquid or solid with a shift in wavelength from that of the usually steady radiation. The two Columbia researchers refined that effect to develop the Raman free-electron laser, whose  wavelength can be fine-tuned so it may be used in precise tissue and bone surgery as well as in high-resolution radar.
        Dr. Schlesinger, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Michigan State University in 1941. He joined the Navy as an engineering officer on destroyers in World War II and received a certificate from the Naval Academy Postgraduate School in 1946.
        He taught engineering at Union College, where he received a master's degree in 1950, and received a Ph.D. in engineering at Johns Hopkins University in 1957. He joined the Columbia faculty in 1956 as a member of both the electrical  engineering and applied physics departments, and was chairman of electrical engineering from 1980 to 1983.
        Dr. Schlesinger is survived by his wife, Ziporah; a son, Richard, of Baltimore; a daughter, Joanna Grimm of Cleveland; two stepchildren, Arnon Sadeh  of Tel-Mond, Israel, and Orna Kaplan of Tenafly, N.J., and 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 31, 1996, Wednesday
        An obiturary on Saturday about Dr. S. Perry Schlesinger, emeritus professor of electrical engineering at Columbia University, omitted the name of a surviving sister. She is Harriet Blum of Hamilton, N.Y.
      