
        Dmitri Pokrovsky, a singer, composer, conductor and ethnomusicologist whose specialty was Russian folk music, dance and ritual, died on Saturday in Moscow.  He was 52 and had homes in Moscow and Boston.
        Jon Aaron, his manager, said the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Pokrovsky was an avid collector of ancient village songs, but he was careful to avoid calcifying what he considered a living style by presenting them rigidly in concert. With the Pokrovsky Ensemble, which he founded in the 1970's, he took into account the improvisatory tradition in which the songs had thrived  for centuries and molded his arrangements for specific performances.
        That flexibility made Mr. Pokrovsky and his group at home in several musical  worlds. Having discovered the folk sources of "Les Noces," Stravinsky's stylized evocation of a Russian wedding, Mr. Pokrovsky created a radical new reading of the Stravinsky score, which he recorded for Elektra Nonesuch Records and performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1994. The Pokrovsky Ensemble's credentials in the growing world-music field also won it a place on Peter Gabriel's "Us" album in 1992. And the group has toured the United States with the Paul Winter Consort, an ensemble in which jazz, New Age and world music influences mingle.
        Mr. Pokrovsky became interested in folk music when he was studying the balalaika and conducting at the Gnessin Pedagogical Institute in Moscow in the early 1970's. Intent on finding fresh musical influences, he began visiting small villages and listening to their oldest songs. What he discovered was a vast literature of structurally and harmonically complex songs, performed in a rough-hewn but compelling vocal style.
        When Mr. Pokrovsky returned to Moscow to form an ensemble to perform this music, he avoided conventionally trained singers, choosing scholars in various fields and musicians who could play folk instruments. He took the ensemble to the countryside, where it s learned songs and the rituals from the peasants who  had preserved them. The ensemble performed in peasant costumes and contributed music to many Russian film soundtracks and television programs.
        Mr. Pokrovsky and his ensemble first performed in the United States in 1988 in the Making Music Together Festival in Boston. The performances were the centerpieces of the Brooklyn Philharmonic's mini-festival, The Russian Stravinsky, in 1994, and he and the Brooklyn Philharmonic planned to explore the folk roots of other Russian composers.
        Mr. Pokrovsky lectured at the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress and was a guest professor at Dartmouth and Middlebury Colleges.
        He is survived by his mother, Nina Budanova of Moscow, and two daughters, Nadia Carpenter of Boston and Svieta Pokrovsky of London.
      