
        Roger Tory Peterson, the ornithologist whose "Field Guide to the Birds" inspired and instructed millions of bird-watchers the world over, died on Sunday at his home in Old Lyme, Conn., where he had lived for many years.
        He was 87 and with the exception of the last six months or so, when he was in failing health, had been active in the Roger Tory Peterson Institute of Natural  History of Jamestown, N.Y., whose mission is to inform society of the natural world through the teaching of natural history.
        Mr. Peterson once said he thought of himself first as a painter, second as a writer and third as a naturalist. But he was no less a lecturer and teacher, and he was famed as a photographer, film maker and world traveler. In the heyday of  his mature vigor, which stretched over half a century, he frequently seemed to be doing all those things at once.
        He either wrote or edited nearly 50 books about animals, plants or nature and he contributed prefaces, introductions and commentary to dozens more. He wrote many articles for a variety of magazines. His paintings and photographs of birds won much praise and he garnered prizes for his ability to teach a nation so much of what it came to know and love about bird life.
        He was probably the best-known ornithologist of the 20th century and, as the  writer and critic William Zinsser once observed, "A Field Guide to the Birds," was "the single most revolutionary development in American birding."
        Before him bird guides were burdened with confusing detail, but Mr. Peterson's pocket-size work focused on the essential features by which a species could be swiftly and unerringly identified, even by amateurs. His bold, precise  drawings and paintings stressed coloration, the shapes of beaks, wing feathers and tails. He assembled birds schematically and his unique identification system used arrows to highlight distinctive markings and characteristics. ("It seems like an obvious thing to do now, but nobody had ever done that before," Mr. Peterson once said.) His prose was equally clear and succinct: he summed up the  male goldfinch, for example, as "the only small yellow bird with black wings."
        But in the 1930's, when he began his work, there were serious questions as to whether sufficient numbers of Americans cared or could be induced to learn about bird life.
        At least four publishers refused to have anything to do with "A Field Guide to the Birds." Houghton-Mifflin, which took on the project in 1934, was so convinced that the book would fail that it committed itself to a first printing  of only 2,000 copies and tried to persuade Mr. Peterson to waive royalties on the first thousand sold. Booming Success Astounds Book's Editors
        To the surprise of his editors, the first edition sold out in two weeks. It has since gone through four revisions and was being revised yet again by Mr. Peterson when he died. The two Peterson Field Guides to birds in the East and West of the United States have sold seven million copies and are always in print. Since May, his work has been available on CD-ROM.
        From the beginning, readers liked the rich descriptions, the simplified drawings that made it easier to identify birds quickly and the fact that Mr. Peterson did not group birds by their species but by their resemblance to one another.
        Lewis Gannett, who reviewed the Field Guide for The New York Herald Tribune,  was perhaps the most prescient of all the critics. He wrote that of all the new  books published to date that year, the one that would be remembered a decade later was "A Field Guide to the Birds."
        He added, "I predict a long life and many editions for this useful book; it will become well worn in Central Park and on Jones Beach."
        By 1980, when it was revised a third time and reissued, three million copies  had been sold. It was no stranger to The New York Times best-seller list and it  remained beloved and respected by American birders, as bird-watchers prefer to be called, even after the rival "Golden Guide" by Chandler S. Robbins, Bertel Bruun and Herbert S. Zim was published in 1966.
        Mr. Peterson's book won the Brewster Memorial Award of the American Ornithologist's Union in 1934 and secured for Mr. Peterson a major role in American birding. In the years to come, he won many other awards, including the  Gold Medal of the New York Zoological Society; the Conservation Medal of the National Audubon Society, the Gold Medal of the World Wildlife Fund; the Joseph  Wood Krutch Medal from the Humane Society of the United States; the Linnaeus Gold Medal of the Swedish Academy of Science; the Geoffrey St. Hilaire Gold Medal from the French Natural History Society; and the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Jimmy Carter.
        In the years that followed publication of the original guides, Mr. Peterson also wrote such books as "The Junior Book of Birds" (1934); "A Field Guide to Western Birds" (1941); "The Audubon Guide to Attracting Birds (1941); "Birds Over America (1948); "How to Know the Birds" (1949); "A Field Guide to Birds of  Texas and Adjacent States" (1960); "A Field Guide to the Birds of Britain and Europe, with Guy Montfort and P.A.D. Hollom, (1954); and "A Field Guide to Mexican Birds," with Edward Chalif, (1973).
        Mr. Peterson did not limit himself to books on bird life. He was a co-author, with Margaret McKenny, of "A Field Guide to Wildflowers" (1968), and he edited other books, all of whose titles began with "A Field Guide to," that dealt with, among other things, shells, butterflies, mammals, rocks and minerals.
        But birds remained his first and last love. He admired the common starling for its gumption, he thought that blue jays had "a lot of class" and said that the house sparrow was "an interesting darn bird."
        He never grew tired of unexpected encounters with red crossbills, and in a millisecond, it seemed, he could tell a grackle from an English thrush if it got within 100 yards of him. He never lost his childhood wonder about the doings of  robins and purple finches and cardinals and mockingbirds and this was true even  after he got to know exotic birds in countries quite distant from his Connecticut home.
        More than that, he was quite taken with people who shared his love for birds. "Whether they are princes, tycoons, housewives or kids," he once said, "they tend to be a bit more civilized, a bit more aware, than most nonwatchers."
        In 1961, Audubon Magazine observed that "as a naturalist, Peterson has the soul of an artist and as an artist the soul of a naturalist."
        'A Great Naturalist' Is Foreseen Early
        When Mr. Peterson graduated from the Jamestown High School in upstate New York in 1925, someone wrote a caption under his photograph that said: "Woods! Birds! Flowers!/Here are the makings of a great naturalist."
        In the years that led to his high school graduation, Mr. Peterson's parents occasionally had a hard time coming to grips with the fact that their son would  ever fulfill such a prediction.
        Roger Tory Peterson was born in Jamestown on Aug. 28, 1908, the son of Charles Gustav and Henrietta Bader P. Peterson. Charles Peterson had come to the United States from Varmland, Sweden. Roger's mother was born in Germany of Wendish stock, which was Slavic in origin.
        Charles Gustav, a practical man, worked for a company that made office furniture. He admired his son, but thought he was a dreamer.
        "So, you've been after birds again," the elder Mr. Peterson would complain when his son came home late from school. Charles Gustav had reason to be a bit restrained about Roger's interest in nature. In 1922, Roger entered a drawing contest sponsored by The Buffalo Times and won first prize of $2 for his sketch  of a banded purple butterfly. But his drawing ruined Charles Gustav's $5 gold fountain pen.
        Roger's interest in birds started early and he later said that if he had not  become interested in birds, he "might have easily become the most notoriously bad boy" in Jamestown.
        The fascination with birds started in 1919 when he was 11. Blanche Hornbeck,  one of his teachers, started a Junior Audubon Club. For a dime, members received a set of Audubon bird leaflets to study and to color. Until then, Roger was widely known as a loner, a boy who would doze off in class, who was rebellious and who was regarded by other children as "strange."
        He was so taken with birds that he watched for them wherever he went. To support his obsession, he got a job working as a delivery boy for The Jamestown  Morning Post so that he could buy a camera. In hardly any time at all, he had photographed 15 species of upstate birds.
        He was not a bad student in high school. But Charles Gustav did not totally understand how his son could get such good grades in mechanical drawing and do so poorly in industrial arts. Try though he might, Roger could not succeed in making anything out of wood, including a modest house for the creatures he loved.
        After high school, he worked briefly for a manufacturing company as an engineering draftsman, did not like it, and got a job painting Chinese motifs on lacquered furniture.
        But he was drawn to birds. Encouraged by a friend, William Vogt, an author and population expert, he left home in 1927 and began the study of art, first at the Art Students League in New York, later at the National Academy of Design, where he studied between 1929 and 1931.
        He studied with William Dierpink von Langereis, John Sloan and Kimon Nicolaides. In his approach to drawing, Mr. Peterson was also influenced by encouragement from Louis Agassiz Fuertes, a celebrated painter of wildlife, and  Ludlow Griscom, a noted ornithologist. His studies over, he went to Brookline, Mass., and a job teaching at the Rivers School for boys.
        After his first field guide became a success, Mr. Peterson returned to New York, where he joined the staff of the Audubon Society. He worked there for nine years, as both an educational director and art editor of Audubon Magazine. In World War II he served with the Army Corps of Engineers, preparing technical manuals on how to defuse land mines.
        Toward the end of the war, he was assigned by the Air Force to study DDT, a substance whose excessive use he and others would denounce. DDT was banned from  the United States marketplace in 1972.
        100,000-Mile Journey Through 'Wild America'
        Mr. Peterson was so busy that for many years, he complained that he did not have the time to travel as a naturalist should travel. But in 1953, accompanied  by James M. C. Fisher, a British naturalist, he took a 100,000-mile trip, most of it in the United States.
        The two put their gear in Mr. Peterson's sedan, started out in Newfoundland,  moved southward across the Appalachian highlands, then down the East Coast to the Florida Keys, across the Gulf States to Mexico, then northward on the Pacific Coast to Alaska. Mr. Peterson saw and recorded 572 species of birds in the United States and an additional 65 in Mexico. The two then co-wrote "Wild America," which was published by Houghton-Mifflin in 1955.
        By 1974, Mr. Peterson had such a reputation as a world traveler that he was awarded the Explorer's Medal by the Explorer Club. Mr. Peterson traveled to Europe, Africa, the Galapagos Islands, Asia, South America, Australia and Antarctica.
        By 1971, Mr. Peterson had become bored with the formalized, schematic drawings of his field books and for the rest of his life, he made more time for  real painting. His work was painstaking and exacting and he had the reputation for being a stickler for detail. John Devlin, who for many years wrote about nature for The New York Times and with Grace Naismith wrote Mr. Peterson's biography in 1977, made an error in one of his articles and recalled commiserating with Mr. Peterson.
        "Jack," Mr. Peterson replied, "everyone makes an occasional mistake. I remember one time I was commissioned to do a painting of a three-toed woodpecker. Do you know what I did? I painted it with four toes."
        Mr. Peterson was married three times and divorced twice. His first wife was Mildred Washington, whom he married in 1936, In 1943 he married Barbara Coulter. In 1976 he married Virginia Westervelt. He had two sons by his second wife: Tory Coulter and Lee Allen Peterson. His wife and sons are among his survivors as are a sister, Margaret Lager of Novato, Calif., and two stepdaughters, Linda and Mimi Westervelt.
      