
        Dr. Edward H. Birkenmeier, a geneticist who was a leader in the use of mice as models for studying human diseases, died on Saturday at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 48.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his family.
        Dr. Birkenmeier was a senior staff scientist at the Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, a center for the study of mammalian genetics and the world's largest mouse-breeding laboratory.
        "He pioneered the development of experimental systems for studying gene therapy, a technology that will ultimately prove to be of tremendous importance  in medicine," said Dr. Kenneth Paigen, director of the laboratory.
        Dr. Birkenmeier was also widely known among American geneticists as the co-director of two courses on mammalian and mouse genetics given at the laboratory each summer. The courses attract the leaders of the field as well as  postdoctoral researchers and graduate students.
        A central theme of Dr. Birkenmeier's research in mice was the use of molecular biology to understand the functional changes that accompany a hereditary disease. Using that information, Dr. Birkenmeier and his colleagues tried to develop methods of diagnosis and treatment that could be applied to humans.
        For instance, Dr. Birkenmeier developed a mouse model for a very rare inherited human disorder, Sly syndrome, that causes cardiac murmurs and mental retardation and often brings death in childhood. People with the disease have inherited a faulty gene for an enzyme called beta-glucuronidase, which destroys  certain waste products of cell metabolism. If the waste products are not destroyed, they accumulate in the body, causing vital organs to become so distended that they fail to function.
        The mouse model has been used to test experimental therapies for Sly syndrome and for closely related disorders like Tay-Sachs disease and Gaucher's disease.
        Dr. Birkenmeier and his colleagues reported in 1992 that gene therapy had corrected the defects caused by Sly syndrome in mice. They inserted normal copies of the gene in cells that had been removed from a mouse with the disease. The cells were grown in the laboratory and then returned to the mouse, where the normal gene could go to work.
        Dr. Birkenmeier was born in St. Louis on Oct. 1, 1947, and earned bachelor's  and medical degrees at Washington University. He worked at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., and the Carnegie Institute in Baltimore before joining the Jackson Laboratory in 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, Connie, and a son, Tristan, both of Bar Harbor; and his father, Edward Jr., a brother, Thomas, and a sister, Gail, all of St. Louis.
      