
        Mervyn Cowie, a British Kenyan who grew up with lions, frolicked with hyenas  and later spurred the creation of the vast network of East African parks that have protected his childhood playmates from modern encroachment, died on July 19. He was 87 and had retired to Suffolk, England, in 1979.
        London newspapers that reported his death gave no cause.
        A descendant of Scottish farmers who migrated to South Africa, Mr. Cowie was the son of a one-time big game hunter, a military officer who during a hunting trip became so enchanted with the Kenyan landscape and wildlife that he settled  there.
        Although his father, who farmed and operated a real estate business, became prominent in Kenyan affairs, serving as one of the original members of the Nairobi legislative council, by the time his son was born in 1909, he had, in the parlance of the flanneled colonials sipping gin and tonics at the Muthaiga Club, gone distinctly native.
        Indeed, Mr. Cowie grew up in a thatched-roof mud hut 30 miles from Nairobi, where a local tribesman cooked the family meals on three heated stones, meat had to be kept away from foraging hyenas and the lions were so prevalent that as he  drifted to sleep at night Mr. Cowie could hear them sniffing around the flimsy front door.
        As a young teen-ager he took to racing hyenas on his motorbike, a contraption that made so much noise the local tribesmen gave him the nickname Wanguare, for a bird known for its piercing screech.
        The youth got a comeuppance when he slipped in the mud one day, becoming trapped beneath the heavy bike as seven lions closed slowly in on what appeared  to be an easy dinner. Whatever Daniel-like charms Mr. Cowie may have summoned to save him, he was forever grateful that a group of Masai happened by and chased the lions away.
        In the colonial custom, Mr. Cowie was sent to England for his high school and college education, and when he returned in 1932 with an accounting degree from Oxford, he was shocked to discover how much the wild areas of Kenya had shrunk during his nine-year absence.
        Although game preserves protected wildlife from hunters, there was nothing to protect them from the local cattlemen whose herds had expanded at the expense of the wildlife.
        Mr. Cowie began an immediate campaign to establish parks that would be off limits to agriculture as well as hunters, but his efforts drew little support until he hit on an inspired stratagem.
        In a 1937 letter to a prominent newspaper signed simply, "Old Settler," he proposed the wholesale slaughter of Kenya's remaining wild animals to make room  for further agricultural and other development.
        His role as agent provacateur almost backfired when a local farmers group actually endorsed his intemperate proposal, but his campaign eventually gained such widespread suport that after a delay caused by World War II, a Kenyan park  system was created in 1946. Mr. Cowie, who had served as an officer with the Kenya regiment in Abyssinia, as Ethiopia was then known, the Middle East and Madagascar, was named its director.
        He quickly established parks ranging from the 44-square mile Nairobi barely five miles from the capital center to the 8,000-square mile Tsavo in southeast Kenya.
        Mr. Cowie's efforts were also credited with stiumlating the creation of similar parks throughout British-ruled eastern Africa, including the Serengeti in what is now Tanzania.
        A hands-on administrator who personally chased a wounded elephant away from then-Princess Elizabeth's party during her 1952 visit to the Treetops hotel in the Aberdare Park, Mr. Cowie even learned to fly so he could patrol his domains.
        For Mr. Cowie, establishing the parks was just the beginning of what turned out to be an almost constant effort to see that they were adequately financed, effectively operated and protected from bureaucratic inertia, public apathy and  the incursions of poachers.
        It was a reflection of his success in balancing his preservationist's zeal with the needs of the local population that he remained director after Kenya gained indpependence in 1963.
        After he left his post in 1966, Mr. Cowie, whose books include "Fly, Vulture," (1961) and "The African Lion" (1966) continued to raise money and rally suppport for the parks.
        Although their numbers have often been depleted by disease, drought and Somali raiders, it is considered a tribute to Mr. Cowie's vision and perseverance that in the Tsavo redlands where Isak Dinesen once went shooting with Denys Finch Haddon, and the aviator Beryl Markham spotted elephants for safari marksmen, elephants still remain.
        Mr. Cowie, whose first wife died, is survived by his second wife, Valori; two sons and a daughter from his first marriage and a son and a daughter from his second.
      