
        Edward Mason Brown, the president and founder of the Lower Eastside Service Center for treatment of drug and alcohol abuse, died on Friday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 66.
        His family said he died in his sleep of natural causes.
        In 1959, Mr. Brown started a counseling and referral center in a storefront  on Monroe Street in Manhattan, naming it the Lower Eastside Information and Service Center for Narcotics Addiction. In the 37 years since, its services have widened to reach those in need of other kinds of help on the Lower East Side.
        The center now has a budget of about $10 million a year and a full-time staff of about 180. Beyond drug and alcohol dependency, it tends to assist people afflicted with H.I.V., tuberculosis and mental illness and provides outpatient,  day and residential care. It has special programs for Vietnam War veterans and their families, as well as a program for residents of Chinatown.
        Around 2,500 people pass through its doors every year. The center, with branches on Chambers Street, East Broadway and Gouverneur Slip, is supported by  public funds, private foundations and contributors.
        Mr. Brown was born in Manhattan and graduated from Wesleyan University. He studied religion and psychiatry at Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan, from which he graduated in 1954 with a master's degree in systematic theology.
        An ordained Presbyterian minister, he served as the pastor of a Bronx parish  in the 1950's. But he left the pulpit to join the battle against drugs on the Lower East Side.
        In 1965, while serving as chaplain at a hospital center for adolescent drug abusers, he issued a report on a study he conducted with 400 young male addicts  at the center. Among his findings was that the addicts' mothers, gratifying their own need for a dependent son, created "a psychic state prone to addiction." He also was the co-author, with Dr. Yves J. Kron, of "The Making of  a Heroin Addict" (Pantheon, 1966), the case study of an addict who overdoses at  age 23.
        Mr. Brown is survived by two sons, Tony, of Redding, Mass., and Adam, of Manhattan; his fiancee, Marjorie S. Windheim, and a grandson. His marriage to Karen Gregory Brown ended in divorce.
      