
        William H. Kolberg, retired president of the National Alliance of Business, a nonprofit group based in Washington, and a former government official, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 70 and had lived in Washington.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Louise.
        Mr. Kolberg retired in January after 16 years as chief executive as well as  president of the alliance. He advocated, and worked for, improvements in the American labor force through training and education for young people and adults. He also championed better schools.
        At a conference in Washington in 1993, Mr. Kolberg declared that business should do more to ease the transition from school to the work force for young people. He said traditional school-to-work systems were not working. "What has been missing is the careful, long-term involvement of employers," he said.
        Mr. Kolberg was born in Nome, N.D., grew up in Lead, S.D., and received a bachelor's degree in political science and a master's degree in government management, both from the University of Denver. He served in the Army from 1944  to 1946.
        He was on the staff of the Bureau of the Budget from 1953 to 1968, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor from 1968 to 1971, assistant director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1971 to 1973 and Assistant Secretary of Labor from 1973 to 1977. Then he was vice president for public affairs of the Union Camp Corporation and held other posts before heading the business alliance.
        His writings included the book "Rebuilding America's Work Force" (1982), which he wrote jointly with Foster Smith.
        His marriage to Rosamund Evans ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, Louise Alport Kolberg, he is survived by his mother, Hattie Kolberg of Topeka, Kan.; his sister, Ellen Flesher of Topeka; a son, Charles William Kolberg of Albuquerque, N.M.; four daughters, Joyce Kolberg of Albuquerque, Diane Janukajtis of Greensboro Bend, Vt., Deborah Kolberg of Livingston Manor, N.Y., and Alison Kolberg of Washington, and six grandchildren.
      