
        Brig. Gen. Kenneth E. Fields, whose military career took him from the pinnacle of his class at West Point to battle for the bridge at Remagen, Germany, and on to the Manhattan Project and then to civilian eminence at the Atomic Energy Commission, died on July 1 at the Homestead, a nursing home in Stamford, Conn.
        General Fields, who lived in Greenwich, Conn., was 87.
        After he left Government service in 1958, General Fields became executive vice president of the International Standard Electric Corporation, a subsidiary  of International Telephone and Telegraph and the president of another of its subsidiaries, I.T.T. Europe.
        From 1961 to 1963, he was executive vice president of the Bulova Watch Company, responsible for industrial and defense businesses that accounted for some 30 percent of the company's more than $65 million a year in sales.
        While he retired at the end of 1963, President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965 appointed General Fields as a member of the Atlantic-Pacific Inter oceanic Canal Study Commission. For the next five years, he helped assess the feasibility of the yet unrealized plan of building an additional canal through the Isthmus of Panama, one at sea level.
        Probably his most dramatic achievement came in March 1945. Then, as a lieutenant colonel commanding the 6,500 members of the 1159th Engineer Combat Group, he found himself at the 400-yard Ludendorff railroad bridge, spanning the Rhine River from Remagen to Erpel, about 12 miles south-southeast of Bonn.
        Almost miraculously, the bridge had survived the Wehrmacht's effort to blow it up, and American forces made the first crossing of the Rhine in World War II  and established a bridgehead in the German heartland.
        "I not only got assigned to build the pontoon bridge, but I was given the responsibility to repair the Remagen bridge," General Fields recalled in 1982. "I had just seen the damn thing. Good Lord!"
        He said: "When we went across in our jeep and oh, what a wreck. The floor was full of holes where they had actually blown charges and everything."
        The bridge, in fact, was twisted, with large segments missing. "It was hanging on one cord," the general said. "God, we have to keep going across this  thing? But we had to."
        For 10 days almost to the minute, the bridge at Remagen was kept open. Then,  weakened by the German demolition charges and more or less constant shelling and bombing, it collapsed and slumped slowly into the swift currents of the icy river, taking many troops with it.
        But by then, because so many pontoon bridges had been slung across the Rhine, the bridgehead on the other side had reached 60 square miles.
        General Fields was awarded the Silver Star for bravery for his service at Remagen.
        In late 1945 after the conclusion of World War II, Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves, who headed the Manhattan Engineer District, the wartime cover for the atomic bomb project, tapped General Fields as his assistant. General Fields received the Distinguished Service Medal for his contributions to the development of atomic and fusion weapons.
        In the spring of 1947 he became assistant to the director for military applications at the Atomic Energy Commission. In 1955, when he was appointed general manager of the commission, a civilian post, he retired from the military.
        He regarded these assignments as his most important, involving him with questions of the practicality and safety of atomic power and with Vice Admiral Hyman G. Rickover in the development of the nuclear-powered submarine.
        From his youth in Elkhart, Ind., where General Fields was born on Feb. 1, 1909, he hoped to become an engineer. At the University of Illinois, where he studied civil engineering, he excelled as a passer and kicker on the football team before his appointment to the Military Academy.
        In June 1933, he graduated first in his class and was commissioned a lieutenant of engineers. He also received master's degrees in engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1938 and from Harvard in 1939.
        General Fields is survived by a daughter, Luellen Fields of Amsten, Conn.; a  sister, Zelma Fields Cox of Melbourne, Fla., a daughter-in-law, Mary Fields of Wilmette, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      