
        William Bailey Lockhart, a scholar who helped formulate the constitutional underpinnings of early civil-rights legislation and headed a Presidential commission on pornography, died on Monday at University Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 89 and had lived in Sandy, Utah.
        A member of the University of Minnesota law faculty from 1946 to 1972, he was its dean for the last 16 of those years. He also wrote textbooks that were widely used. He was the principal author of "The American Constitution: Cases -- Comments -- Questions" (West, seventh edition, 1991), and "Constitutional Law: The American Constitution -- Constitutional Rights and Liberties" (West; seventh edition, 1992), both of which remain in print.
        He was one of the constitutional experts consulted in the 1960's in legislative efforts to insure civil rights for minorities, and in 1966, he was among the scholars who provided the legal foundation for important provisions of rights legislation pending in Congress.
        In 1962 during the segregationist riots at the University of Mississippi he joined others in arguing that President John F. Kennedy's actions in carrying out a Federal court's order to integrate the university were constitutional. Kennedy had ordered Federal marshals to enforce the admission of James B. Meredith to the university.
        Dean Lockhart was also known for his expertise on the issue of censorship of  books, films and pictures, and in 1968 President Lyndon B. Johnson chose him to  head a National Commission on Obscenity and Pornography. Its mandate was to investigate whether a relationship existed between pornography and antisocial behavior, especially among young people. The commission was also asked to determine whether constitutional means were available to curb such material.
        In 1970, the panel of academics, lawyers and members of the clergy handed in  a majority report that recommended repealing all restrictions for willing adults, regulation of sales to minors, and a thorough campaign to educate people. The dissenters found the report far too permissive and called it a "Magna Carta for pornographers in America.".
        President Richard M. Nixon rejected the report's conclusions. And in 1986, a  Justice Department panel formally rebutted the Lockhart report, telling the Reagan Administration that most pornography was harmful and could lead to violence. It urged action against the purveyors of such materials and harsher penalties for violators of obscenity laws.
        After retiring from the University of Minnesota, Dean Lockhart spent another  22 years teaching at Hastings College of Law in San Francisco.
        He was born in Des Moines and graduated from Drake University. He earned his  law degree and a doctorate of laws at Harvard.
        Dean Lockhart is survived by his wife, Mary Lou Lockhart; a son, William B. Jr., of Salt Lake City, and a daughter, Jonell Kristensen of Kerteminde, Denmark.
      