
        Alexander G. Shulman, a physician who instinctively plunged his hand into cold water when he accidentally seared it with boiling grease one day in the 1950's and thereby altered medicine's approach to the emergency treatment of burns, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Constance Stone-Shulman, said.
        Before his retirement about a year ago, Dr. Shulman, whose specialty was surgery, was director of the Lichtenstein Hernia Institute of Los Angeles, an organization devoted to research, teaching and treatment related to abdominal-wall hernias.
        In addition to maintaining a private practice, Dr. Shulman was for many years the chief of surgery at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles.
        A frequent contributor to medical journals, he was known as a champion of the use of the blood-thinning drug heparin to ward off heart attack and as an advocate of rapid return to work for hernia patients who underwent the institute's innovative treatment using tension-free mesh.
        But he was perhaps best known for his direct, effective approach to first-aid for burns, which were usually treated with an application of butter or grease.
        In the Journal of the American Medical Association of Aug. 27, 1960, Dr. Shulman told how personal experience taught him the efficacy of cold water.
        About eight years earlier, he wrote, he burned a hand when he accidentally spilled boiling grease.
        "In the ensuing agonizing few minutes it seemed logical to plunge the hand into a tub of cold water," he wrote. "The immediate relief of pain was so impressive that I kept the hand immersed in water for about one hour, since its  momentary removal caused the return of the original intense pain. After about one hour, it was possible to remove the hand without pain. From that moment on there was virtually no pain, and the burn seemed to heal more rapidly than was expected."
        Dr. Shulman continued: "A few weeks later, a 3-year-old child who had grasped the hot water pipes leading to a shower room was brought in screaming with fright and intense pain of her hands. When the hands were immersed in cold water, the child immediately displayed complete relief and refused to remove her hands until some time later. Once she was able to remove her hands without pain, the skin did not blister and no further treatment was necessary.
        "These two initial cases demonstrate what has been known to the ancients but  seems to have been ignored by physicians and laymen alike."
        After the initial cases, Dr. Shulman wrote, he treated 150 patients with burns of less than 20 percent of the body using ice water or ice-cold moist towels, and found the treatment effective not only in burns of thermal origin but also on chemical and electrical burns.
        Dr. Shulman noted that he had been reluctant to experiment formally by withholding treatment of a portion of the burn area. But, he wrote, a fortuitous error occurred in which a small area of abdomen was overlooked in the treatment  of a man whose face, arms and torso had been splattered with steam. All the areas treated with ice water healed within a day, he wrote. But, he said, "The abdominal patch blistered, remained painful, crusted over, and required two weeks for complete healing."
        He concluded: "Immersion of burns in ice water baths, or the application of ice-cold moist towels to burned areas is recommended as first-aid emergency management for burns involving less than 20 percent of the body surface."
        Mr. Shulman, known as Alex., was born June 22, 1915, in Toronto. He received  his medical degree from the University of Toronto in 1939 and was a resident, first in pathology and then in surgery, at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
        During World War II, he served as a neurosurgeon with the rank of captain in  the Army Medical Corps.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Shulman is survived by a daughter, Stefanie Le Plastrier, and a son, Lawrence, both of Los Angeles; a brother, Milton, of London, and five grandchildren.
      