
        Dr. Edward Purdy Ney, whose early work on the atomic bomb in World War II led him to stalk cosmic particles in the sky and background radiation on earth, died on Tuesday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 75.
        The cause was congestive heart disease, said the University of Minnesota, where Dr. Ney was an emeritus professor of physics and astronomy. He reached emeritus status in 1974 but continued to visit his laboratory until last month.
        As a fledgling physicist, Dr. Ney explored methods of separating isotopes of uranium and analyzing the results. His findings proved helpful to the Manhattan  project in designing its diffusion plant at Oak Ridge, Tenn.
        After World War II, his curiosity turned to astrophysics when he investigated radiation deep inside limestone caves in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia. The radiation was evidence of the penetrating power of the cosmic rays that constantly bombard earth from space.
        Getting a bit closer to the source, he and his colleagues at the University of Minnesota turned into balloonists, trolling the skies for cosmic particles. They conducted their high-altitude studies with unmanned balloons over Minnesota and the oceans, like the Navy's Operation Skyhook of 1949 off an aircraft carrier on the Equator.
        In 1954, Dr. Ney helped draft a code to sort out the jumble of names for the  fundamental particles that strike the earth from space.
        A spectacular success came in 1956 when Dr. Ney and a colleague, John Winckler, built a huge, pyramid-shaped balloon and lofted it with helium gas to  what was then a world-record altitude of over 27 miles. The balloon carried cameras, radio transmitters and assorted other equipment for meteorological and  cosmic-ray research.
        He later reported that a stack of photographic plates aboard the balloon had  caught the track of a nucleus of a helium atom, traveling at nearly the speed of light when it struck. The particle proved to have carried 10 times the energy of a particle in an exploding atomic bomb.
        His team's balloons also discovered dangerously high-energy particles from the sun entering the earth's magnetic field. And orbiting Gemini astronauts carried out photographic experiments designed by Dr. Ney in 1965 to explain enigmatic phenomena like gegenschein and zodiacal light, faint glows found even  in the darkest night sky.
        The Gemini experiments were part of a years-long effort by astronomers and physicists at Minnesota to understand what contributes to the diffused light in  the night sky. Their results helped to determine the usefulness of orbiting astronomical telescopes and furnished clues to the history of the solar system.
        Edward Purdy Ney was born in Minneapolis, graduated from the University of Minnesota and received his Ph.D. in physics from the University of Virginia in 1946. He returned to Minneapolis the following year as an assistant professor.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1971 and served as chairman of the department of astronomy until 1978. Most recently his focus was  on the radioactive gas radon.
        Dr. Ney is survived by his wife of 54 years, June Felsing Ney; a daughter, Judy Ney of Minneapolis; three sons, John, of St. Paul, Arthur, of Minneapolis,  and William, of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Nancy Braun of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      