
        T. F. Gilroy Daly, a senior United States District judge in Connecticut whose hallmark as a trial lawyer was winning the freedom of a man wrongly convicted of murder in 1976, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 65.
        Judge Daly died of melanoma, Alfred Pavlis, a spokesman for the family, said  yesterday.
        As a trial lawyer, Mr. Daly gained prominence when he won freedom for Peter  A. Reilly of Litchfield County, Conn., who had been convicted of murdering his mother. With the help of James Conway, a private investigator, Mr. Daly uncovered new evidence that resulted in Mr. Reilly being cleared of the crime and released from jail.
        Mr. Reilly was 18 on the night of Sept. 28, 1973, when he arrived home and found the body of his mother, Barbara Gibbons, on the floor of their cottage. She had been stabbed numerous times, her throat slashed twice and both thigh bones broken.
        Mr. Reilly was arrested and convicted of the crime.
        The case drew widespread attention after The New York Times, in December 1975, published an article based on its own investigation of the murder and conviction. The Times became interested in the case after Arthur Miller, the playwright and one of Mr. Reilly's supporters, visited the newspaper, saying Mr. Reilly had been unjustly convicted on the basis of a coerced confession, inadequate police work and the suppression of evidence by the State's Attorney,  John F. Bianchi, who prosecuted the case.
        Mr. Daly, working closely with Mr. Conway, pursued the case doggedly, winning Mr. Reilly a retrial in March 1976. Judge Simon S. Cohen dismissed the case in November 1976 at a pretrial hearing in Litchfield County Superior Court after Dennis Santore, the State's Attorney, announced his discovery of evidence that placed Mr. Reilly miles from the scene of the murder.
        Yesterday, Mr. Reilly, a clerk at a music instrument store in Hartford, took  the day off after receiving word of Judge Daly's death. "He gave his all to keep me out of jail," Mr. Reilly, 41, said in a telephone interview.
        Mr. Reilly said that he knew within minutes of meeting Mr. Daly that he was the lawyer he wanted. He said that he was impressed with Mr. Daly's confidence,  flair and style. "I was able to trust him from the first day," he said. "There was a certain magic about him. He's the finest man I've ever known."
        Mr. Daly's handling of Mr. Reilly's case catapulted him to prominence. President Jimmy Carter appointed him to the Federal bench in 1977 and he served  as Chief Judge of the district from 1983 to 1988. During his tenure, he reduced a severe backlog of cases by calling on out-of-state judges to help try  Connecticut cases and by winning approval for additional full-time judges.
        As a judge, he presided over several high-profile trials, including the Waterbury municipal corruption case, which ended in 1992 when he sent the former Mayor, Joseph J. Santopietro, to Federal prison for nine years.
        In May 1995, in a landmark decision, Judge Daly ruled that state police can be held liable for taping telephone conversations in barracks. And just last month, he handed down a ruling in the case of Karin Aparo, the former Glastonbury woman, who as a teen-ager, was accused of having her boyfriend strangle her mother in 1987. The judge ruled that Ms. Aparo, who was acquitted in 1990 of being an accessory to the murder, could not be retried on the conspiracy charge.
        A native of Fairfield, Conn., Judge Daly graduated from Georgetown University in 1952 before leaving for service in Korea, where he was a first lieutenant with the U.S. Army Rangers until 1954. He went on to attend Yale Law School, graduating in 1957.
        He began his law career as a private attorney in New York before being named  an assistant Federal prosecutor for the Southern District of New York in 1961. He returned to private practice in Connecticut, from 1964 to 1977, until his nomination to the Federal bench.
        He held a number of top state posts while in private practice, including deputy attorney general, deputy treasurer and insurance commissioner.
        He is survived by his wife, Stuart Stetson Daly of Roxbury; four children, Timothy Daly of San Francisco, Loan Daly of Bridgeport, Matthew Daly of Roxbury  and Anna Daly Rosato of Roxbury; three brothers, Michael J. Daly of Fairfield, Dermit Daly of Newtown and Daniel Daly of Pine Plains, N.Y., and two sisters, Bevin Patterson and Allison Gerard, both of New York City.
      