
        Lou Galterio, an opera director who created more than 60 productions for many of the major American and Canadian companies, died on June 20 at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 53 and lived in St. Louis.
        Elizabeth Martin, a spokeswoman for the Santa Fe Opera, which is presenting Mr. Galterio's staging of "Don Giovanni" this summer, said the cause was heart failure after a long illness.
        During his long association with the Opera Theater of St. Louis, Mr. Galterio staged Mozart's "Cosi Fan Tutte" and "Le Nozze di Figaro," Puccini's "Gianni Schicchi," Richard Strauss's "Ariadne auf Naxos" and the American premiere of Prokofiev's "Maddalena." He directed seven productions at Santa Fe,  including Hindemith's "News of the Day" and the American premiere of Nino Rota's "Italian Straw Hat."
        He also directed productions of Donizetti's "Anna Bolena" and Dominick Argento's "Postcard From Morocco" at the Washington Opera, Marc Blitzstein's "Regina" for Opera Pacific, Puccini's "Madama Butterfly" for the Dallas Opera and "Carmen" for the Connecticut Grand Opera.
        Mr. Galterio, who was born in New York City on Nov. 29, 1942, studied drama and English at Marquette University in Milwaukee. One of his first notable productions was a 1976 staging of Britten's "Albert Herring" for the Opera Theater of St. Louis. It was filmed for television. Mr. Galterio's directing debut at the New York City Opera, a production of Rossini's "Cenerentola," was also televised, as part of the "Live From Lincoln Center" series. His other productions for the City Opera included Nicolai's "Merry Wives of Windsor" and Carlisle Floyd's "Susannah."
        From 1977 to 1989, he was director of opera production at the Manhattan School of Music, where he presented an adventurous program of New York premieres that included "The Nose" by Shostakovich, Poulenc's "Dialogues of the Carmelites," Hindemith's "Sancta Susanna," Alexander Zemlinsky's "Florentine Tragedy," Hans Werner Henze's "English Cat," Richard Strauss's "Feuersnot," Massenet's "Cherubin," Prokofiev's "Betrothal in a Monastery" and Haydn's "Fedelta Premiata."
        He is survived by two brothers, Michael, of Oakland Park, Fla., and Alfred, of the Bronx.
      