
        Gottfried von Einem, a composer whose eclectic theatrical style made him Austria's best-known postwar composer, died on Friday at his home in Obernduernbach, a village about 30 miles north of Vienna. He was 78.
        He died in his sleep after a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. von Einem was best known for a handful of operas, and was widely praised for the deftness with which he captured the atmosphere and drama of the often dark librettos that attracted him.
        His early style combined a contemporary rhythmic spikiness with elements of atonality, yet he was never considered an excessively dissonant composer. He made full use of the dynamic breadth and color of the modern orchestra, and sometimes drew on jazz rhythms and improvisatory elements. In the 1960's, he went through a neo-Classical period, and his recent works had an almost Romantic mellowness and heft.
        Mr. von Einem's first opera, "Danton's Death," was given its premiere at the  Salzburg Festival in 1947, and is often cited as one of the most important contemporary operas. His second opera, "The Trial," which was based on Kafka and referred to his own imprisonment by the Nazis, also had its first performances at Salzburg. "The Visit of the Old Lady," which was performed in Vienna and Glyndebourne in the 1970's, is to be given its professional American premiere at the New York City Opera in September.
        Probably his most controversial work was his 1980 opera "Jesus' Wedding." Composed as a companion piece for Britten's church parable, "The Prodigal Son,"  it included an allegorical encounter between Jesus, who represented life and love, and a woman who represented death, as well as a representation of Mary Magdalene as a pop singer and theological riddler. The original idea of performing it in a church with the Britten work was scuttled when the Catholic Church objected to its portrayals, and there were demonstrations at its premiere at the Theater an der Wien.
        Mr. von Einem, the son of a military attache to the Austrian Embassy, was born in Bern, Switzerland, on Jan. 24, 1918, and grew up in Germany. In the early 1930's, he studied music at the Plon Gymnasium in Holstein. His first musical job was as a coach at the Berlin State Opera and at the Bayreuth Festival, starting in 1938.
        During World War II, Mr. von Einem and his mother helped several fugitives escape the Nazis, an act for which they were arrested by the Gestapo and imprisoned for six months. Mr. von Einem also maintained a close relationship with the composer Boris Blacher, whom the Nazis banned as "degenerate." Mr. von  Einem studied privately with him from 1941 to 1943, and engaged him as his librettist for "Danton's Death" and three of his later works.
        Mr. von Einem's 1943 "Concerto for Orchestra" was also criticized by the Nazis, mainly because it included elements of jazz. His first ballet, "Princess  Turandot," was a success the next year, and led to his appointment as composer in residence at the Dresden State Opera, where he began work on "Danton's Death." The first contemporary opera to have its premiere at the Salzburg Festival, "Danton's Death" made Mr. von Einem a celebrity in the international opera world, and in 1948 he became a member of the festival's board of directors.
        Five years later, after the premiere of "The Trial," Mr. von Einem left Salzburg following a dispute with traditionalists on the festival's board. In 1954, he joined the artistic board of the Vienna State Opera. During this period, he also continued to write ballets, orchestral works, chamber pieces and settings for solo voice and orchestra.
        Among Mr. von Einem's nonoperatic works were the ballets "Rondo of the Golden Calf" (1952) and "Medusa" (1957); "Hymnus" for solo alto and orchestra (1949) and "Rosa Mystica" for baritone and orchestra (1972); the almost Straussian "Philadelphia Symphony" (1960), and the "Vienna Symphony" (1976). His chamber works include a set of Capriccios for harpsichord (1969), a Violin Sonata (1975), a String Quartet (1975) and a Wind Quintet (1976). Among his vocal works are settings of Chinese and Japanese texts.
        He is survived by his wife, Lotte Ingrisch, and a son, Caspar Einem, the Interior Minister of Austria.
        The obituary also misstated the date of the City Opera production. It is to  be in April 1997, not this September.
        Correction:  July 16, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary on Sunday about the composer Gottfried von Einem misstated the performance history of his opera "The Visit of the Old Lady." The work had its American premiere in San Francisco in 1972. The New York City Opera production scheduled for next season is to be the New York premiere.
      