
        James O. Plinton Jr., one of the first blacks to be named an executive in the airline industry, eventually becoming a vice president at Eastern Airlines, died on July 4. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Plinton, who spent most of his life trying to break down the strong barriers that blacks faced in the airline industry in the 1940's and 1950's, died of cancer at the Lake Wales Medical Center Extended Care Facility in Lake Wales, Fla., said to his daughter, Kathryn Plinton Roman.
        She said that even as a youth, Mr. Plinton was fascinated by aviation. When  he rode in the rumble seat of his father's Model T Ford, he wore a pair of goggles and pretended he was piloting a plane.
        Mr. Plinton was born in Westfield, N.J., on July 22, 1914. He had his first major run-in with the color line as a young boy when he was denied membership in the Westfield Y.M.C.A. and told that he was not allowed to use the swimming pool.
        After becoming a successful executive in the airline industry, he was elected president of the national Y.M.C.A.
        Mr. Plinton's father wanted him to pursue a medical career, and Mr. Plinton graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania with a bachelor's degree in biology.
        He worked in the post office and the merchant marine but then pursued his passion for flying by entering the University of Newark's Division of Aeronautics, where he earned a commercial pilot's license and flight instructor's rating.
        He went on to the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and joined the flight training staff of the United States Army Air Corps as one of the first black flight instructors of the 99th Pursuit Squadron.
        He trained about 150 pilots, many of whom saw action in World War II and became known as the Tuskegee Airmen.
        Mr. Plinton tried repeatedly to be hired as a pilot by major airlines in the  1940's and 1950's. He was turned down by an industry that had a strong bias against hiring blacks as pilots and flight attendants but allowed some blacks to become ground crew workers.
        Mrs. Roman said her father was not one to bring discrimination complaints or  lawsuits. He persisted in pursuing a career in the industry, though, and after World War II, he turned to airlines outside the United States.
        Mr. Plinton helped organize Andesa, the national airline of Ecuador. He also  helped Haitian International Airlines.
        His big break came in August 1957 when, through the intervention of a pilot and friend, he was able to get an interview at Trans World Airlines. He was appointed executive assistant to the director of personnel and industrial relations, a position that helped him bring other blacks into the industry.
        This was the first time that a black had been named to an executive position  by a major airline. Mr. Plinton then called the breakthrough a "fabulous opportunity."
        In 1971, Mr. Plinton moved to Eastern Airlines, where he was appointed a vice president, then the highest position achieved by a black person in the industry. When Mr. Plinton retired in 1980, Frank Borman, the chairman of Eastern, asked him to stay on as a special assistant for a year.
        After his retirement, he remained active as executive director of the Metropolitan Fellowship of Churches in Florida and chairman of the Tacolcy Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit group of black business and professional leaders.
        Mr. Plinton's wife, Kathryn Hancock Plinton, died in 1993. In addition to his daughter, Mrs. Roman of Lake Wales, Fla., he is surivived by a son, James O. Norman Plinton of Miami.
      