
        Lou Gottlieb, the bass player for the popular 1960's folk trio the Limeliters, died on Thursday at Palm Drive Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 72 and lived in Sonoma County, Calif.
        Ramon Sender, a friend, said that Mr. Gottlieb had been taken to the hospital because of internal bleeding and had refused heroic measures to save his life.
        Mr. Gottlieb was born in Los Angeles. After earning a bachelor's degree at the University of California at Los Angeles, he served as a member of the United States Army Band in Washington. He performed briefly with the Gateway Singers in San Francisco before returning to college and earning a doctorate in musicology  in 1958 at the University of California at Berkeley. His dissertation was titled "Liturgical Polyphony of the 15th Century."
        In May 1959 Mr. Gottlieb was in Los Angeles writing some arrangements for the Kingston Trio when he dropped into a coffeehouse and saw the tenor Glenn Yarbrough and the baritone Alex Hassilev improvising onstage with Theodore Bikel. He approached Mr. Yarbrough and Mr. Hassilev and suggested that he join them. Two months later, the Limeliters made their debut appearance at the Hungry I in San Francisco.
        They went on to become a highly successful touring and recording group that offered a mix of folk music and topical songs, mostly to college audiences, with Mr. Gottlieb providing humorous commentary along the way. Their best-known songs included "There's a Meetin' Here Tonight," "Have Some Madeira, M'Dear," and "Gari Gari."
        Mr. Gottlieb, who was described as the group's "comic-arranger-musicologist"  on the liner notes for the album "Cheek in Our Tongue," devised folk-song arrangements that produced a choral effect from only three voices. He acknowledged that his own voice was weak.
        After surviving a plane crash in Colorado in December 1962, Mr. Gottlieb, already tiring of life on the road, left the group. After a brief stint as a classical music critic for The San Francisco Chronicle, he established an alternative community in 1966 on Morningstar Ranch in Sonoma County. In 1973 he  began performing occasionally with the reunited Limeliters.
        He is survived by his wife, Lee Hartz Gottlieb of El Cerrito, Calif.; a daughter, Judith Spector of Berkeley; two sons, Tony, of Nashville, and Bill, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      