
        Fred Pressman, the man who transformed Barneys New York from a men's discount suit shop into a repository of cutting edge designer fashions, died yesterday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 73 years old.
        The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Phyllis.
        Mr. Pressman took the helm of Barneys in the late 1950's from his father, Barney Pressman, who in 1923 scraped together money for the lease of the store at 17th Street and Seventh Avenue in Manhattan by pawning his wife's engagement  ring.
        With his father's blessing, Fred Pressman slowly transformed the store from a salty discount house that sold roast beef sandwiches in its pub to a purveyor of Italian designers with a cafe serving Perrier and light salads.
        He began to discard the types of suits that his father was prone to unearthing at auctions and bankruptcy sales, peppering the racks instead with then-obscure and top-name designers both, but continued to offer touches like free alterations that gave Barneys its reputation.
        By 1968, Barney's had put together a large selection of international designers in five floors of what it called its International House. Women's clothing was added later, as were elegant housewares, unique cosmetics and gifts.
        Fred Pressman's young sons, Gene and Bob, joined the business in the 1970's,  and they further advanced the store into a singular house of urban chic, where wealthy hipsters could take pleasure in a $60 bath towel. An entire women's floor was added in 1981, with the same sensibility.
        In the late 1980's, Mr. Pressman oversaw the opening of a small store in the  World Financial Center. Barneys also started a partnership with the Isetan Company, a Japanese retail giant, to expand the Barneys name globally.
        That relationship would eventually sour after Bob and Gene Pressman took more control of the company, though Mr. Pressman remained its chairman and continued  to be active in its operations. The brothers continued to expand, opening big stores on Madison Avenue in Manhattan, in Chicago and in Beverly Hills, Calif.,  and several smaller stores around the country.
        Barney's Inc., the parent company of Barneys New York, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January, entangled in a battle with its Japanese partner over the future of the company.
        Despite the company's financial problems, a discreet jet black Barneys shopping bag continues to say as much about a shopper as her shoes or address.
        Mr. Pressman was born in New York, and attended Rutgers University before enlisting in the Army. He joined the family store in 1946. During his tenure, Mr. Pressman was almost obsessed with ferreting out quality goods and innovative fashion from around the world, and marketing them in a way that was fresh and often quirky.
        In the 1960's, long before ironic advertising became mainstream, Mr. Pressman helped conceive a newspaper advertising campaign that featured men in their underwear cleaning their Barney's wash-and-wear suits in a laundromat.
        Mr. Pressman best enjoyed opening a new store, analyzing which type of lighting would be best, and instructing employees how to arrange ties on a display table. He was known to stare intently at a shoe or jacket lapel until it clicked in his mind what needed to be changed about it.
        He often traveled to Britain, where tailors along Savile Row, whom he had guided in the softening of their constructions to better please an American audience, would chat him up.
        He was widely credited within the industry for introducing Giorgio Armani to  the American shopper in 1976, and earlier teamed up with Hubert de Givenchy and Pierre Cardin to give New York men a taste of European style when it was unfashionable to do so. Indeed, a basic flannel or pinstripe suit was the mark of many New York professional men during the 1960's and 70's, and Mr. Pressman tried to turn their attention to world designs.
        "He was a gentleman," the Italian designer Luciano Barbera said in a telephone interview from Milan, Italy. "I considered him one of my best friends  at the highest level. Shaking hands was our way of doing business."
        His views on clothing were well known -- he spoke dismissively of suits made  in Korea -- and he could give an extemporaneous primer on the merits and markings of a good silk tie, a pair of English shoes or a men's jacket.
        Admired and envied by his competitors for his fine merchandising savvy, Mr. Pressman once told a reporter that retailing was "products and merchandise, not  merchandising from ledger books, but from the feel of fabric and instinct."
        "The best value you can offer a customer is personal attention to every detail, and they will return again and again," Mr. Pressman said. "Ultimately, the customer cares the most about how he or she is treated."
        Barneys, for better or worse, has always been a family business, with decisions often made in "board meetings" over a dinner table. Mr. Pressman was known to prefer it this way, and said that he preferred family input over that of an outside investor.
        "I recall him always thinking of his family," Mr. Barbera said. "His most important wishes for his weekend time was to be with them."
        In addition to his wife, Phyllis, he is survived by his sons, Bob of Greenwich, Conn., and Gene of Larchmont, N.Y.; his daughters, Elizabeth, of Rye, N.Y., and Nancy, of Harrison, N.Y., and 10 grandchildren.
      