
        Robert Ellis Dunn, whose classes in improvisation and choreography were the laboratory in which postmodernist dance was born in the early 1960's, died on July 5 at his home in New Carrollton, Md. He was 67.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gretchen.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Dunn used freewheeling methods in eliciting from his students new ways of working with time, space and the parts of the human body. His teaching was to have lasting effects on American modern dance and established him as one of the most important instructors in the field.
        In a time of heady exchanges among avant-gardists in all the arts, Mr. Dunn's students were musicians and visual artists as well as dancers including Simone Forti, Steve Paxton Yvonne Rainer and later Trisha Brown, Meredith Monk and Lucinda Childs. Work from the classes was shown in a concert in July 1962 at the Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village, and the event is regarded as the beginning of the postmodernist Judson Dance Theater movement. The concert helped establish a postmodernist credo questioning the prevailing esthetics of modern dance and the nature of dance performing.
        Mr. Dunn was both persistent and open-minded as a teacher. Dances and discussions could drag on interminably. But when Mr. Dunn looked at work, he was "interested in what happened and how you had done it," Ruth Emerson, a student,  told the dance historian Sally Banes in 1980. "He was not at all judgmental about whether you got it right or whether it was art. It was a tremendous relief."
        As a child, Mr. Dunn toured his home state of Oklahoma as a tap dancer with a local company. But his chief training was in music. He studied music composition and theory at the New England Conservatory in Boston. From 1955 to 1958, he studied dance at the Boston Conservatory of Music and taught percussion for dancers there. In 1958, he accompanied Merce Cunningham in performances in Boston and then moved to New York City, where he worked as a piano accompanist for major modern dance choreographers.
        Mr. Dunn began teaching choreography at the invitation of John Cage, with whom he had studied music theory. He went on to teach at universities and professional schools throughout the country, including Teachers College of Columbia University and the University of Maryland at College Park. He served as an assistant curator at the Research Dance Collection at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center from 1965 to 1972.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a stepson, Peter Benedict, of Brooks, Me., and a stepdaughter, Miranda Benedict, of Gardner, Me.
      