
        Carl M. Shoffler, one of three Washington policemen whose arrest of five burglars 24 years ago touched off the Watergate scandals and ultimately brought  down a Presidency, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 51 and lived in Bowie, Md.
        The cause was pancreatitis, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Shoffler, another plainclothes officer and a police sergeant were not far from the Watergate hotel and office complex in Washington early on June 17,  1972, when they received a report that a door had been found open at the Democratic National Committee's offices there.
        Arriving at the scene, they discovered five men trying to burglarize and wiretap the Democratic offices, in what was later found to be part of a pattern  of Republican political espionage.
        The five men seized at the Watergate were Bernard L. Barker, Virgilio R. Gonzalez, Eugenio R. Martinez, James W. McCord Jr. and Frank A. Sturgis. They and two other men -- E. Howard Hunt Jr. and G. Gordon Liddy -- all either pleaded guilty or were convicted at trial in connection with the break-in, and all, it turned out, had been working, directly or indirectly, for President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign committee.
        Mr. Nixon easily won re-election in November 1972. But the ever widening scandals from which the Watergate arrests proceeded, largely involving Administration efforts to keep the burglars silent about their ties to the White House, ultimately led him to resign in 1974, the only United States President to do so.
        Mr. Shoffler was apparently the right officer to handle the Watergate arrests. As National Review put it in a 1992 article: "When Watergate burglar Eugenio Martinez and his team were apprehended, Martinez struggled with arresting officer Carl Shoffler to conceal something on his person. Shoffler wrestled from him a key, which the F.B.I. identified as fitting the desk of Ida  Wells," a member of the Democratic National Committee staff.
        And in a 1976 book, Sam Dash, who had been chief counsel to the Senate Watergate committee, described Mr. Shoffler as one of "the foundation-laying witnesses" at the committee's hearings, which found a broad pattern of White House wrongdoing.
        But if Mr. Shoffler played a leading role in Watergate's opening act, "he never bragged about it," Detective Ronald Robertson, chairman of the Washington  police officers' and sergeants' union, said yesterday.
        "He just did his job," Detective Robertson said, "and went quietly on his way. I don't think it changed his life one bit."
        Mr. Shoffler, a native of Ashland, Pa., attended American University in Washington, spent four years in the Army, including a tour in Vietnam, and then  joined the Washington police force in 1969. He became a detective and spent 16 years in the department's intelligence unit before retiring with a pension in 1989. Then he became an investigator for the Fire Department of Prince Georges County, Md. At his death, his title there was chief intelligence investigator.
        He is survived by his wife of three decades, Helen Elizabeth Boyd Shoffler; three children, Karl Shawn Shoffler of Laurel, Md., Loren Allen Shoffler of Berlin, Md., and Michelle Scarlett Shoffler of Bowie; his parents, Allen and Eleanor Shoffler, who live in Pennsylvania; two sisters, Barbara Hoover and Fay  Fausnaught, both of Pennsylvania, and a brother, David, also of Pennsylvania.
      