
        Thomas E. Sandefur Jr., a dedicated and unapologetic tobacco salesman who, as chairman of the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation testified before Congress that he did not believe nicotine was addictive, died on Sunday at Baptist Hospital East in Louisville, Ky. He was 56.
        The cause was aplastic anemia, a blood disease, said a spokesman for Brown &  Williamson, a unit of B.A.T. Industries P.L.C., which is based in London.
        In his two years as chairman and chief executive of Brown & Williamson, the  maker of Kool and Pall Mall cigarettes, Mr. Sandefur was credited with integrating Brown & Williamson's operations with those of the American Tobacco Company, after B.A.T.'s 1994 merger of the two companies.
        In announcing his death, the company praised Mr. Sandefur for playing a major role in developing Brown & Williamson's full-price brands and in forging a strong position for the company in the discount-brand segment of the American cigarette market.
        Television made Mr. Sandefur a national figure in April 1994, when he sat at  a Congressional conference table with the chairmen of six other major tobacco companies in hearings before a House subcommittee.
        "I believe nicotine is not addictive," he testified. He consistently maintained that position, saying, "I am entitled to express that view, even though it may differ from the opinions of others." He acknowledged that his company did control nicotine levels in cigarettes, but said it was only to maintain the cigarettes' taste.
        After Mr. Sandefur's testimony, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, contended that Mr. Sandefur may have "knowingly deceived" Congress about the dangers of tobacco. No tobacco executives who testified have been charged with perjury, but the Justice Department is investigating the allegation.
        In addition, Mr. Sandefur's testimony was disputed by a former vice president for research at Brown & Williamson. Jeffrey Wigand, a biochemist who worked for  Mr. Sandefur, contended on the CBS program "60 Minutes" that Mr. Sandefur had lied when he told Congress that he believed nicotine was not addictive.
        Mr. Wigand also contended that Mr. Sandefur had killed a project to create a  "safe cigarette" for fear it would suggest that Brown & Williamson's other products were unsafe.
        Mr. Sandefur's lawyers and the company have insisted that Mr. Sandefur testified truthfully. Yesterday Brown & Williamson began taking depositions from Mr. Wigand at its headquarters in Louisville to be used in the company's lawsuit against him. They could also be at issue in an invasion-of-privacy counterclaim filed by Mr. Wigand against the company.
        A native of Cochran, Ga., Mr. Sandefur began his career in the early 1960's selling cigars and chewing tobacco for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company in North Carolina. He rose to executive vice president of the company's European operation, where he worked for 18 years.
        Mr. Sandefur joined Brown & Williamson as a marketing executive in 1982, became chairman and chief executive in 1993 and retired two years later.
        Nick Brookes, the chairman and chief executive of the company, said Mr. Sandefur "was a strong leader who not only saw opportunities before most, as in  the growth of value-for-money brands, but was quick to take advantage of those opportunities."
        Mr. Sandefur is survived by his wife, Crawford Sandefur; his sister, Barbara  Ham, and his mother, Elsie Camp Sandefur.
      