
        Gregory T. Frazier, a San Francisco visionary who hit on the idea of providing simultaneous electronic audio descriptions for the blind so they could enjoy more than the dialogue of movies, television and theater performances, died on Sunday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 58 and president of Audiovision, a struggling not-for-profit company he formed to translate his vision into routine reality.
        A friend, Malcolm Whyte, said the cause was cancer.
        A native of Boston who grew up in Pasadena, Calif., and spent three years in the Marine Corps before moving to San Francisco to pursue a career in publishing, Mr. Johnson worked variously as a greeting card printer, cookbook author, publishing executive, crafts salesman, freelance printer (he had a press in his basement) and freelance magazine writer.
        But for all his eclectic and creative professional pursuits, the idea that would come to consume his life came to him during an evening of relaxation in the early 1970's when he and a blind friend kicked back at home one night to watch the movie "High Noon" on television.
        At the friend's request, Mr. Frazier, speaking rapidly between the lines of dialogue, provided terse descriptions of the scenes and actions. The friend was  so appreciative that by the time Gary Cooper had shot Frank Miller dead, ripped  the star off his own chest and thrown it to the ground before climbing into a carriage and driving off with Grace Kelly, Mr. Frazier later recalled, he was a  changed man.
        "The light bulb went on," he said. "It was one of the most exciting moments in my life."
        Mr. Frazier's flash realization that the kind of descriptions he had been providing to his friend on the fly could be recorded and played through radio-controlled earphones at movies -- or carried over broadcast sidebands for  television -- dominated the rest of his life.
        A graduate of San Francisco State University, Mr. Frazier returned to the college to study broadcast journalism, using his idea as the basis for his master's thesis and then spending 10 years as a professor in communication arts  at the university while refining the idea.
        For all his initial enthusiasm, Mr. Frazier was unable to find backers to put his idea into practice and had all but given up hope when a new department head  became intrigued with his concept and offered to help.
        By chance, the department head, August Coppola, had a brother named Francis Ford Coppola, the director who agreed to incorporate the idea for his 1988 movie, "Tucker."
        The simultaneous descriptions drew raves from blind moviegoers who saw "Tucker," and descriptions were later recorded for "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade." They have since been provided for some productions on the Public Broadcasting Service and for local television broadcasts in San Francisco, as well as at local stage productions, where the descriptions are read live from outlines by trained commentators because the pace and action of a play sometime  vary from performance to performance.
        But partly because there are only about 12 million visually impaired people in the United States, a comparatively small market, Mr. Frazier's idea has not been widely adopted by the movie and television industry.
        Even so, Mr. Frazier was cheered when he won an Emmy award for his pioneering work in 1990. "The biggest thing the Emmy does is give us visibility," he said.
        Despite the slow pace of progress for what he called "the eye in the ear," Mr. Frazier, who once showed up at a printing company and claimed a job he had been told was not available, was a perpetually optimistic man.
        At the time of his death he was negotiating with Turner Broadcasting to provide visual descriptions for its library of classic movies in hopes that those who cannot see could hear what others take for granted.
        Mr. Frazier, who was divorced, leaves no immediate survivors.
      