
        Dr. Kenneth T. Bainbridge, the physicist who directed the first test of an atomic bomb, died on Sunday in Lexington, Mass., where he lived. He was 91.
        When World War II began, Dr. Bainbridge was a noted researcher at Harvard University who had designed powerful mass spectrometers for determining the mass of elements with great accuracy. He had also built a cyclotron at Harvard for research in high-energy physics, an instrument that was later requisitioned  by the Manhattan Project to aid in building an atomic weapon.
        And he had close ties with British scientists, putting him in a position to  get British and American scientists working together on radar and nuclear physics. Dr. Edward M. Purcell, a highly regarded physicist now retired from Harvard, was Dr. Bainbridge's first graduate student in the 1930's, and he said  Dr. Bainbridge's work was particularly helpful to the Navy.
        "He was very active in the creation and design of radar, putting radar on some of the big ships," Dr. Purcell said.
        But Dr. Bainbridge was interested in nuclear isotopes as well, and in the summer of 1943, he was recruited by Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer to work on the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos, N.M. In March 1945, he was put in charge of the first test of an atomic bomb, a program called Project Trinity.
        The first challenge, he wrote three decades later in The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, was to find a suitable site close enough to Los Alamos for convenience but in compliance with orders from the Interior Department to avoid relocating a single American Indian. After exploring several remote sites, he set up the work camp on a ranch being used as a bombing range 200 miles south of Los Alamos.
        In May, Air Force pilots on practice runs bombed two buildings at the camp, both uninhabited. That left the scientists, Dr. Bainbridge wrote, "worried about the destruction of all our efforts if some budding bombardier should later destroy the test bomb with a hit on the tower."
        But Dr. Bainbridge did not worry about the destruction the work on the atomic bomb might cause in the end, he said, because he had already heard firsthand accounts of atrocities in the war. "It was obvious that in the space of a few years the war was getting dirtier," he wrote, "and Hitler's threats and deeds gave me a somewhat bloodthirsty viewpoint on the war."
        The installation was built with a sense of urgency, as hundreds of miles of wires were strung and 25 miles of roads paved to prepare for a July 16, 1945, test. "The new roads proved a superlative example of planned obsolescence," Dr.  Bainbridge wrote. "Built to last three months, they started to break up 92 days  after completion."
        On the day of the test, "my personal nightmare," he wrote, "was knowing that  if the bomb didn't go off or hangfired, I, as head of the test, would have to go to the tower first and seek to find out what had gone wrong."
        The bomb test met or exceeded expectations, giving what he called "a foul and awesome display."
        After the war, he was active in opposing the testing of nuclear weapons and the arms race, joining with 11 other prominent scientists in 1950 in asking President Harry S. Truman to declare that the United States would never use the  hydrogen bomb first. And as chairman of the physics department at Harvard in the 1950's, he was a champion of academic freedom and opposed Senator Joseph McCarthy and the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        Dr. Bainbridge, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, became a professor emeritus at Harvard in 1975.
        Dr. Bainbridge was married twice, to Margaret Pitkin Bainbridge and Helen Brinkley Bainbridge, both of whom have died.
        He is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Joan Bainbridge Safford of Evanston, Ill., and Margaret Bainbridge Robinson of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and five grandchildren.
      