
        Dr. Narciso Garcia, a physics professor at Queens College whose experiments with photons and microwave radiation offered a powerful demonstration of the resemblance between light and matter established by quantum theory, died on Wednesday at his home in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 55.
        The cause was cancer, said Dr. Azriel Genack, a friend and colleague at Queens College who collaborated with Dr. Garcia on the microwave experiments.
        In their experiments, the researchers showed that it was possible to momentarily trap photons, the elemental components of light and all electromagnetic radiation, in a disordered medium. By shooting microwave radiation through a tube filled with aluminum and Teflon balls and monitoring the energy signature that passed through them, they found that some of the photons were briefly "localized," stored in the pellets.
        Dr. Hans Christian von Baeyer, an author and physics professor at the College of William and Mary, assessed the discovery in the May-June 1992 issue of the magazine The Sciences.
        Dr. von Baeyer said the finding capped a decades-long effort to show that the theories of Dr. Philip Warren Anderson, who won the 1977 Nobel Prize in Physics, were "applicable not only to electron waves but also to light waves and even sound." In 1958, Dr. Anderson predicted that electrons could be trapped in a crystal impregnated with randomly spaced impurity atoms. The effect is now known as Anderson localization.
        Along with Arthur Damask, a colleague at Queens College, Dr. Garcia was co-author of a popular textbook, "Physics for Computer Science Students" (Springer-Verlag, New York), which examines classical and quantum physics, then  uses those concepts to explain the inner workings of the microprocessors at the  heart of computers and other electronic devices. A new edition of the text is being issued this fall.
        Dr. Garcia was born on Sept. 4, 1940, in Burgos, Spain, and came to the United States to study at Marist College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., where he earned  a bachelor's degree in 1963. In 1969, he received a Ph.D. in physics from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
        He joined the faculty of Queens College that year and became a driving force  in the creation of a graduate physics program there. He was adviser to the program's students until his death.
        Dr. Garcia is survived by his wife, Odile, as well as a daughter, Letitia, and a son, Andres, all of New Hyde Park, and a number of family members in Spain: his mother, Emilia Calderon; four brothers, Santiago, Jose, Emilio and Miguel Angel, and a sister, Mari Rosi.
      