
        Marco Rivetti, the Italian entrepreneur who helped turn European designer labels into household names worldwide, died last Saturday at his home in Turin.  He was 52.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Group G.F.T. in Turin, the family business he headed as chairman and chief executive officer through its heyday in the 1980's.
        Mr. Rivetti provided the vision that made the distinctive creations of Armani or Valentino, to name but two, popular in the United States. His skill as a merchandiser of fashions introduced Italian-made fashions to many upscale department stores and boutiques.
        G.F.T. -- the Gruppo Finanziario Tessile -- started decades earlier as a supplier of uniforms. It was largely to his credit that it grew into a dynamo of haute couture humming in New York and Tokyo and other fashion-conscious capitals.
        Mr. Rivetti joined his father, Franco, in the business in 1970. His knack for marketing first became evident when he approached Emanuel Ungaro.
        Other arbiters of style soon joined the fold, like Giorgio Armani and Valentino Garavani, Claude Montana, Joseph Abboud and Calvin Klein menswear. Mr. Rivetti offered attractive licensing agreements, reportedly with double-digit royalties and cushions to protect the designers from the often painful ups and downs at the sales counter.
        In the 1980's, the apparel industry became a pillar of Italy's export business, thanks largely to houses like the fashion conglomerate G.F.T. The top  designer labels sold at almost any price in the affluent countries of western Europe and North America, and big buyers jostled at ready-to-wear shows in Italy.
        By the late 1980's, G.F.T. was the world's largest maker of designer labels.  It struck out into manufacturing in the United States, China and Czechoslovakia  and rang up record sales of just over $1 billion in 1989.
        But the economic climate eventually soured. Mr. Rivetti's fashion strategy was tripped up by overextension and royalty arrangements, rising labor costs and a bewildering sprawl of the market in Asia. The company that almost single-handedly wakened the taste for Italian designs in the United States went  into debt. In 1991, for the first time in 61 years, it lost money.
        Mr. Rivetti gave up the helm that year, saying: "I'm not capable of managing  difficult moments." He engaged an outsider, Vittorio Levi, to take his place as  chief executive officer. That, too, was a first for the family, which later put  the company up for sale.
        In 1994, the next year, after several false starts, the banks that had been trying to rescue the company found a solution. An investment arm of the Fiat group, Gemina, bought G.F.T. and managed to turn a net profit of $11 million in  1995, the first black ink on the bottom at G.F.T. in four years.
        Marco Rivetti was born in Turin. He studied economics in Italy and the United States. He served as president until last year of Pitti Immagine, an organization that holds several Italian trade shows.
        He is survived by a sister, Giovanna Rivetti.
      