
        Frederick J. Stock, a pharmaceutical-industry executive who supervised the nation's large-scale production of penicillin and other "miracle drugs" during World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Stock, who earned a degree in pharmacy from Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind., in 1928, was manager of the prescription departments of the Walgreen Corporation drug-store chain when American industry mobilized for war in 1941. He was assigned to the Office of Production Management, a unit of the War Production Board, and later was named chief of the office's drug branch.
        In that role, Mr. Stock supervised the large-scale production of penicillin  and sulfa drugs, the first of the stream of wonder drugs that would revolutionize the postwar treatment of infectious diseases. He was also responsible for the allocation of drugs between the military and civilian markets, as consumer demand for the precious new medicines quickly outstripped supply in the constrained wartime economy.
        In early 1944, with penicillin supplies still inadequate, Mr. Stock led the War Production Board's effort to encourage drug companies, normally competitors, to share patents and research technology with each other so that production of the new drug could be increased. In 1949, Purdue awarded him an honorary degree  in recognition of his wartime contributions to pharmacy.
        After the war, Mr. Stock joined Charles Pfizer & Company as it made its entry into the prescription drug field. While there, he oversaw the company's global introduction of the early antibiotic Terramycin. In 1952, he joined the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation, and stayed on after its merger with E. R. Squibb & Company, from which he retired as senior vice president and general manager in 1972. In 1989, Squibb merged with Bristol-Myers to form the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
        Mr. Stock also served as a trustee of the Hudson River Museum, an officer of  the Yonkers Historical Society and a governor of Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret Wilson Stock of Bronxville; two daughters, Suzanne Macdonald of Villanova, Pa., and Carol Mahony of Edina, Minn. and Vero Beach, Fla.,; 10 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren. A son, Frederick J. Stock Jr., a former executive of the New York Stock Exchange, and three grandchildren died in 1973.
      