
        Richard W. Long, a college dropout who used a personal-injury settlement from a motorcycle accident to build a multimillion-dollar bicycle business that is supplying the most advanced equipment to the United States Olympic cycling team, died on July 12 when his motorcycle and a truck collided on a winding mountain road east of Los Angeles. He was 46 and lived in San Juan Capistrano, Calif.
        Mr. Long was patrolling the grounds of a California sanitarium with little prospect of improving his blue-collar lot when an accident over 20 years ago changed his life.
        He was struck by a car while riding his motorcycle, and although the accident left him with a limp, it also led to a cash settlement of several thousand dollars that helped finance what has become GT Bicycles, a Santa Ana, Calif., company that now rivals the venerable Schwinn as the nation's leading bike manufacturer.
        It took far more than the financing, of course, to build GT into a company that now produces 600,000 bicycles and $150 million in annual sales with a reputation for such excellence that it won the commission to produce the two dozen so-called superbikes that the United States team will use at the Summer Games in Atlanta.
        Demonstrating a vision that would repeatedly characterize his business success, Mr. Long, an auto mechanic's son who was born in Santa Monica and grew  up in San Bernardino County, used the financial settlement to buy a bicycle store in Anaheim when cycling was becoming a passion in California.
        A marketing innovator from the beginning, Mr. Long spent his weekends at bicycle tracks to keep up with his customers' needs. On one visit he was introduced to Gary Turner, a former auto racer who had built his son a BMX racing bike that proved so superior that Mr. Turner was soon busy in the garage  at his Fullerton home turning out copies for other children.
        Mr. Long quickly persuaded Mr. Turner to use the Anaheim store as his major sales outlet, and when customers clamored for more bikes than Mr. Turner could supply, Mr. Long began spending evenings in the attached two-car garage where Mr. Turner had disconnected his wife's washer-dryer to gain access to the 220-volt current he needed to operate his welding machine.
        Looking back on those days, Mr. Turner recalled this week that as a factory hand Mr. Long was a terrific marketing man. "He was slow and he was always cutting his finger," he said.
        By 1979 the manufacturing operation was so successful that Mr. Long sold his  store to help finance expansion, concentrating on making deals with parts suppliers and building a distribution network for a growing array of models sold under such brand names as GT, Powerlite, Robinson and Dyno.
        Although sales grew steadily, continued expansion required so much capital that it was not until last year, when the company went public with a $40 million offering, that Mr. Long was able to enjoy the full fruits of his success. He indulged his passion for expensive cars and paved the way for his sons, Jeff, 26, and Chris, 21, to operate an automobile-accessories business of their own.
        Not that Mr. Long spent much time relaxing at his home. In a highly competitive industry where racing success translates into sales, Mr. Long, who had helped make ends meet during GT's lean years by operating a track of his own, made it a point to continue his regular visits to mountain tracks, cheering on GT's team and making new friends for his business.
        As the president of a company that is a sponsor of the United States cycling  team, he knew that the highlight of his year would be the Olympics, where Juliana Furtado of the GT team is a favorite in the new mountain bike competition, and Rebecca Twigg, a six-time world champion who will be riding one of the $30,000 GT superbikes, is considered the favorite to win the individual women's pursuit.
        Still, for all the anticipated Olympic hoopla, there was no way that Mr. Long was going to pass up last weekend's National Off-Road Bicycle Association's national championship series at Big Bear Lake in the San Bernardino mountains.
        So, leaving his Porsches and his new Ferarri at home, Mr. Long roared off from his office on his new motorcycle, a limited edition Honda Valkyrie he had virtually begged a dealer to sell him.
        "It's kind of ironic that he started his business from a motorcycle accident  and died in a motorcycle accident," his son Jeff said. "But at least he lived to see what he had accomplished, and he knew that we got to see it, too."
        In addition to his sons, of Huntington Beach, Mr. Long is survived by his wife, Wanda; his mother, Elleen, of Huntington Beach; his father, Eugene, of Hesperia, Calif.; a brother, Steve, of Hesperia, and a sister, Barbara Clark, of Shingle Springs, Calif.
      