
        Merrill C. Gilfillan, an Ohio conservationist whose prose and poems told of the nature and denizens of the Great Plains, died on July 12 at a nursing home in Rochester, N.Y. He was 86.
        His writings celebrated the seasons, as in "Magpie Rising: Sketches From the  Great Plains" (Pruett, 1988), for which he traversed the plains, from the Texas  Panhandle to southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, camping out, staying in small-town motels, asking questions and garnering odd facts as he went.
        His first collection of stories, "Sworn Before Cranes" (Orion, 1994), featured native peoples -- the Arapaho, the Cheyenne and the Lakota -- of the open northern Plains. "The author's view is a long, clear one, heartening to find in print," wrote Lisa Sandlin in The New York Times Book Review. "He sees time as born of nature and ourselves as children of both."
        "Moods of the Ohio Moon: An Outdoorsman's Almanac" (Kent State, 1991) was inspired by the phases of the moon and pieced together poetic observations, visual descriptions of the landscape and brief essays to explore the American Midwest.  Earlier he had published three volumes of poetry, "To Creature" (Blue  Wind, 1975), "Light Years: Early Selected Works" (Blue Wind, 1977) and "River Through Rivertown" (Figures, 1982).
        Born on a farm near Castine, Ohio, Mr. Gilfillan graduated with a degree in zoology from Ohio State University in 1934. He started a career in wildlife research with the Ohio Division of Wildlife and helped establish one of the country's earliest game management programs in northeastern Ohio.
        In 1956 he transferred to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources as a writer and then an editor in the information and education section.
        He wrote for and edited the Ohio Conservation Bulletin and retired from public service in 1972.
        To devotees of the Buckeye State he was known as the father of the Buckeye Trail, a walking trail that now stretches some 1,200 miles into the four corners of Ohio, winding through 40 of its 88 counties.
        Mr. Gilfillan is survived by a son, Merrill D., of Boulder, Colo.; a daughter, Linda Traphagen of Rochester, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 31, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary on July 21 about Merrill C. Gilfillan, an Ohio conservationist and author, attributed five books to him erroneously. He wrote "Moods of the Ohio Moon: An Outdoorsman's Almanac," but his son, Merrill D. Gilfillan, wrote "Magpie Rising: Sketches from the Great Plains," "Sworn Before Cranes" and three volumes of poetry, "To Creature," "Light Years: Early Selected Works" and "River Through Rivertown."
      