
        Paul Howe Shepard Jr., a professor of natural philosophy and human ecology who wrote or edited books that won critics' praise, died on Tuesday at his home  in Salt Lake City. He was 71.
        His death was announced on Friday by his literary agent, Elizabeth Grossman.  The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Florence.
        Professor Shepard retired in 1994 after teaching for 21 years concurrently at Pitzer College and Claremont Graduate School, both in Claremont, Calif. Earlier he taught at Dartmouth College and elsewhere.
        The author Barry Lopez said in Harper's magazine that Professor Shepard wrote "with freshness and an almost angry brilliance" in his 1978 book "Thinking Animals: Animals and the Development of Human Intelligence," which was about the role played by animals in humans' psychological and intellectual development.
        In his 1967 book "Man in the Landscape: A Historic View of the Esthetics of Nature," he wrote of deserts: "The angularity of desert landforms imparts a monumental architecture to the clouds as well as to the land. The clouds seem to measure the enormous distances by a stately profession toward the horizon."
        The regional and urban planner Frederick Gutheim wrote in The Nation that the 1969 book "The Subversive Science: Essays Toward an Ecology of Man," for which Professor Shepard was co-editor and wrote an introduction, provided "literary pleasure, intellectual stimulation and the solid satisfactions of learning," but that scientists would be "uncomfortable with his mysticism."
        Professor Shepard was also a co-author, with Barry Sanders, of "The Sacred Paw: The Bear in Nature, Myth and Literature" (1985, Viking Penguin).
        He was born in Kansas City, Mo., and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri and a doctorate from Yale. Later he had Guggenheim and Rockefeller fellowships.
        His marriages to Melba Wheatcroft and to June Smith Atwater ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife of eight years, he is survived by a son, Kenton Howe  Shepard of Boulder, Colo.; two daughters, Margaret Winn of Darby, Mont., and Jane Shepard of Brooklyn; four stepchildren, Kathryn Morton of Portland, Ore., Matthew Krall of Kemmerer, Wyo., Lisi Krall of Cortland, N.Y., and Robert C. Krall of Flagstaff, Ariz.; four grandchildren, seven step-grandchildren, and a brother, Richard, of Manhattan.
      