
        Tom Chauncey, a former owner of radio and television stations in Phoenix and  Tucson and an influential collector of Arabian horses, died on Thursday at his ranch in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 83.
        Mr. Chauncey was born in Houston, and was 13 when he arrived in Phoenix with  an elder brother. He went to work as a page in the Adams Hotel, where another brother was the manager. He opened a jewelry store in Phoenix in 1941.
        That year, Mr. Chauncey bought the radio station KPHO in Phoenix with his friend, the cowboy star Gene Autry, in the first of several such joint ventures. In 1948, Mr. Chauncey became the general manager of another radio station, KOOL, which he and Mr. Autry acquired a few years later. In the early 1950's, they started KOLD-TV in Tucson. Mr. Chauncey started selling his television holdings  in the late 1970's.
        While a station owner, Mr. Chauncey was a vigorous supporter of expanding the evening news, first from 15 minutes to 30 minutes. In 1982, he was the most vocal among executives of CBS affiliates urging that the evening news expand from 30 to 60 minutes. He was the president and majority stockholder of KOOL-TV  and a former head of the CBS affiliates board.
        He was introduced to Arabian horses by his second wife, Dorothy (Deedie) Wrigley Rich, a member of the Wrigley gum family of Chicago.
        In 1969 he bought an Arabian horse, Naborr, with the singer Wayne Newton and  paid the record sum of $150,000 for it. In the early 1980's, Mr. Chauncey sold 117 Arabian horses, but still owned 150. So in 1982, he collaborated with Sotheby's auction house in New York to hold a joint sale of Arabian horses and Old Master paintings at the Tom Chauncey Arabian Horse Center in Scottsdale. It  brought less than half the $6 million expected.
        Mr. Chauncey and his second wife were divorced in 1984. He is survived by four children, Sharon Siar and Karyn Blomo of Scottsdale, Tom Chauncey 2d, of Phoenix, and Colleen Walters of Parker, Ariz.; two stepchildren, Misdee Mulligan of Citra, Fla., and Helen De Gray of Palm Beach, Fla.; 12 grandchildren, 9 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      