
        Sir Geoffrey Jellicoe, one of the 20th century's leading landscape architects, died on Wednesday, in Devon, England. He was 95.
        Sir Geoffrey's work, which spanned seven decades, ranged from some of the grandest private gardens in England, including the Tudor-era Sutton Place, to transformations of blighted industrial landscapes and the sublimely simple memorial to John F. Kennedy at Runnymede, England.
        His planned opus magnum at the time of his death was the $30 million Moody Historical Gardens in Galveston, Tex., which when completed will encompass 126 acres of wetlands between an abandoned airfield and the Gulf of Mexico and is intended to evoke the history of landscape, from the Garden of Eden to Thomas Mann's "Magic Mountain." Visitors will wend their way on boats through a vast watery landscape, passing through the ancient gardens of Egypt and Rome to the gardens of China and Japan. Construction is to begin in the next few years.
        Sir Geoffrey was born on Oct. 8, 1900, and grew up in the coastal town of Rustington, surrounded by the rolling hills of Sussex Downs. His father, a publisher, and his mother, who loved the opera, were sophisticated gardeners influenced by the Arts and Crafts era. Their tastes ran to hedges and orchards leading to the open fields and light of the sea. In Sir Geoffrey's later years,  as he became interested in the works of Carl Jung, and the powers of the subconscious, he would recall how the mystery of those gardens infused his designs.
        Although Sir Geoffrey was trained as an architect in the classical tradition  of the Architectural Association in London, after attending Cheltenham College,  he considered landscape design "the mother of all arts." He helped found the Institute of Landscape Architects in 1929, and served as its president from 1939 to 1949. He was knighted in 1979.
        "I never knew such an eminent figure who was more open or more energetic and  generous with people and ideas," said the garden historian Howard Adams, from his farm in West Virginia.
        Mr. Adams said he considered Sir Geoffrey's greatest work to be the Kennedy Memorial at Runnymeade, the one-acre site overlooking the Thames River that England set aside after the American President's assassination in 1963. The way  to the memorial stone runs along a winding granite path skirting dark woods, before opening up to the sunny meadows where the Magna Carta was signed.
        Grady Clay, who edited Landscape Architecture magazine for more than 20 years, said Sir Geoffrey "preached that there is one single problem in design: not just the buildings, not just the forms, but the totality of the place." He continued: "He had a sense of volume that was rare. An understanding of the landscape was more than a picture. You had to learn how spaces fit together in three dimensions -- and then the fourth: over time."
        Among Sir Geoffrey's many books, "The Italian Gardens of the Renaissance," "Studies in Landscape Design, 1960-1970," and "The Landscape of Man," written with his wife, Susan, whom he married in 1936, are standard texts for students of landscape architecture.
        Susan Jellicoe died in 1986.
      