
        Dr. Leonard Wolsey Cronkhite Jr., an expert on radar and human survival in space, and an industrial physician who organized health plans and medical-care groups for industry and labor, died on Saturday at his home in Brunswick, Me. He was 77.
        He suffered a brief illness, said Bowdoin College in Brunswick, where he was  a trustee emeritus and a former board chairman.
        A native of Newton, Mass., Dr. Cronkhite was the president at Children's Hospital in Boston from 1962 to 1977, when he took the same position at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. At Children's Hospital he oversaw the construction of an ambulatory-care center and an adjacent inn for patients undergoing diagnosis and the families of long-term patients.
        He initiated and established a computerized system for scheduling outpatient  visits, ending long waits in clinics. He also obtained Federal financing for the John F. Enders Pediatric Research Laboratories at Children's Hospital, the largest such center anywhere.
        After an interruption of his education by more than three years of service in World War II, Dr. Cronkhite graduated from Bowdoin and received his medical degree from Harvard Medical School in 1950. He trained in internal medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital and in metabolical studies with the Public Health Service.
        He spent several years in private practice and business as a consultant establishing health-care plans in industry and as an expert on life-support systems for space vehicles. He also worked as executive of a company making radar components.
        He also remained in the reserves, retiring in 1975 as commanding general of the 21,000 members of the 94th Army Reserve Command.
        Until last year Dr. Cronkhite served as board chairman of the Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences in Boothbay Harbor, Me. At his death he was chairman of the Maine Maritime Museum in Bath and a senior fellow of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Cronkhite's survivors include his wife of 20 years, Linda Marchky Cronkhite; four daughters from a previous marriage, Judith, Marcia, Janice, and  Wendy, and a brother, Bayard, of Marblehead.
      