
        M. L. Rosenthal, a poet, a critic of 20th-century poetry and a teacher, died  on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Suffern.
        He died after prostate surgery, said his daughter, Dr. Laura McGarry.
        Through his many reviews and books of criticism, Mr. Rosenthal brought a sharp eye and an independent mind to the study of contemporary poetry in Britain and the United States. In particular, he had an affinity for the work of William Butler Yeats, Ezra Pound, T. S. Eliot and William Carlos Williams.
        In reviewing "The Modern Poetic Sequence: The Genius of Modern Poetry" by Mr. Rosenthal and Sally M. Gall in The New York Times Book Review in 1983, the poet  Seamus Heaney said, "It is the kind of book M. L. Rosenthal has always done best as a critic, a guided tour of a literary period or phenomenon that might elude or overwhelm us by its copiousness and variety were it not for the guide's competence, enthusiasm and readiness to generalize and evaluate."
        He said that the book "quickens our enjoyment of poetry."
        As a longtime professor of English at New York University, Mr. Rosenthal taught modern poetry and critical theory. Though he never stopped writing his own poetry, he devoted a considerable part of his life to analyzing and unlocking poetry for the reader.
        He once said, "Something has separated the people from their poetry," and he  tried to bridge that gap through his teaching, criticism and editing of anthologies. As the founder and first director of the Poetics Institute at New York University, he focused on "the pressures and processes shaping a poem." Through the institute and his other activities, he was celebrated as a discoverer of the "vitally new," and as an encourager of younger poets.
        Macha Louis Rosenthal (known as Mack to his friends) was born in Washington and traced his interest in poetry back to his childhood. He said: "My father gave us kids a nickel every time we recited a poem. A poet who was a friend of his one day told him: 'You mustn't do that. They'll grow up thinking there is money in poetry.' "
        Although he supported his writing of poetry through his teaching and criticism, he believed that they, too, were necessary professions.
        Mr. Rosenthal, a graduate of the University of Chicago, received a doctorate  from N.Y.U. and taught there from 1961 through 1987. He then became professor emeritus.
        In 1967, he edited "The New Modern Poetry: British and American Poetry Since  World War II" and a companion volume, "The New Poets: American and British Poetry Since World War II."
        In a review in The New York Times Book Review, Robie Macauley praised Mr. Rosenthal for "mediatory excellence" and as "a critic of real talent," and said  that the two books were "the first broad view of the new poetry and at the same  time the first study that distinguishes and examines the major trends in a satisfactory way."
        Looking back at poets in the early part of the century, Mr. Rosenthal credited "the older group" (Robert Frost, William Carlos Williams, E. E. Cummings and others) with creating "a living, daring body of work."
        He added, "We have an American poetry now, though only the poets and too small a number of readers know it." Then, turning to younger poets, he said that Robert Lowell was "the single poet of outstanding power and virtuosity to emerge since the last war."
        In his own poetry, he wrote about nature, love, the world at large and poetry itself. He published his first book of poetry, "Blue Boy on Skates: Poems" in 1964, followed in 1969 by "Beyond Power: New Poems."
        Reviewing the second book in The Times, Thomas Lask commented on Mr. Rosenthal's "wit and humorous empathy" and said that "for the most part, these poems are the expression of a thoughtful and deeply moved man before the majesty and impersonality of nature and the equal impersonality of history."
        One of Mr. Rosenthal's love poems, "She," ends:
        Did you ever imagine, as a child,
        these silences falling away
        from where death watched us for a moment
        and then the mockingbird's manic medley
        wild with the morning, wild for heaven to notice.
        Among his books of criticism are "Randall Jarrell," "Poetry and the Common Life," "Sailing Into the Unknown: Yeats, Pound, and Eliot," "The Poet's Art," "Our Life in Poetry: Selected Essays and Reviews" and, in 1994, "Running to Paradise: Yeats's Poetic Art." Mr. Rosenthal also edited many volumes of verse,  including works by Yeats, Williams and Hugh MacDiarmid. In 1983 he translated "The Adventures of Pinocchio." For several years he was poetry editor of The Nation and frequently served on poetry juries.
        Speaking of Mr. Rosenthal as a poet and critic, Ms. Gall said yesterday that  "he was a builder rather a destroyer, someone with a deep empathy who knew the nature of poetic art." She said that one of his finest poems was one of his last works, "In the World Pub," published last year in the quarterly Exile and not yet collected. In that poetic sequence, all voices and times, gods and goddesses and figures from history, gather in a pub, and the poet takes on the personae of a hermit and a troubadour.
        In addition to his daughter, of Pelham Manor, N.Y., he is survived by his wife of 57 years, Victoria; a son, Alan, a jazz musician who lives in Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      