
        Howard A. Cook, who worked to improve understanding among nations, first as a diplomat and then as president of International House in New York City for 25 years, died on Monday at his home in Chatham in Columbia County, N.Y. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        International House, at 500 Riverside Drive in Manhattan, at 123d Street, was founded in 1924 by John D. Rockefeller Jr. and the family of the copper magnate Cleveland Dodge as a cultural, educational and residential center for American and foreign graduate students. It seeks to encourage the exchange of ideas among young people of all countries.
        Mr. Cook was named president in 1955 and led International House until his retirement in 1980. He then became president emeritus and the nonprofit organization's chief fund-raiser and ambassador, duties he was especially suited for because of his love of travel, his easy friendships with people in high places and his fluency in French and German.
        In 1961, Mr. Cook organized and was co-chairman of the first world conference of international houses and centers in Paris, and was a member of the Youth Activities Commission of the White House Conference on International Cooperation.
        Mr. Cook had been president since 1986 of the MacJannet Foundation, an organization that promotes international understanding through conferences that bring together influential people from many nations.
        Mr. Cook was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., and graduated from the Northwood School in Lake Placid, N.Y., and with honors from Harvard University in 1937. He received a master's degree in international relations from Stanford University in 1947 and worked for the World Affairs Council in Cleveland and Northern California.
        In 1952, he joined the State Department, and was chief of the Public Services Division under Secretaries Dean Acheson and John Foster Dulles.
        His first marriage, to Diana Pattison, ended in divorce. Survivors include his wife, Diane; three sons, Anthony, of Los Angeles, Timothy, of Ghent, N.Y., and Jonathan, of Boston; three daughters, Lee, of Los Angeles, Jennifer, of Manhattan and Yvonne, of Royal Palm Beach, Fla., and three sisters, Mary Forester and Blanche Forester, both of Ghent, and Lawson Jenkins of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
      