
        Michel Debre, who played a central role in drafting France's 1958 Constitution and went on to serve as the Fifth Republic's first Prime Minister under President Charles de Gaulle, died today at his home in Montlouis-sur-Loire, 150 miles south of Paris. He was 84.
        An outspoken conservative and fervent defender of France's independent nuclear deterrent, Mr. Debre was strongly identified with de Gaulle throughout his political career, to the point of being frequently described as ''more Gaullist than de Gaulle,'' though late in life he disclosed that he had frequently disagreed with his mentor.
        ''I shared his point of view on the essential: the independence of France,'' Mr. Debre wrote in 1993 of his conversations with de Gaulle between 1961 and 1969. ''I was not always in agreement with the methods he chose to achieve this independence.''
        He said that he had opposed de Gaulle's decision to grant Algeria independence in 1962, that he had been unhappy at being excluded from secret negotiations surrounding the anti-Government student movement in May 1968 and that he had warned the President that he risked ''political suicide'' by calling a referendum in April 1969. De Gaulle lost the referendum and resigned soon afterwards. He died in 1970.
        Mr. Debre's public image was nonetheless that of an unwavering Gaullist. He served de Gaulle as Prime Minister from 1959 to 1962, as Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance from 1966 to 1968 and as Foreign Minister from 1968 to 1969. He also served as Defense Minister under de Gaulle's successor, Georges Pompidou, from 1969 to 1973.
        President Jacques Chirac, the first Gaullist to occupy Elysee Palace since Pompidou's death in 1974, said today: ''France has lost one of its greatest servants. Michel Debre was a father of our Constitution, to which our nation owes its stability.''
        Although Mr. Debre remained a member of the National Assembly until 1988 and was Mayor of Amboise, a small town in the Loire Valley, for 23 years, until 1989, he played no significant role in national politics after 1973, dedicating himself largely to writing books about French affairs. He was elected to the Academie Francaise in 1988.
        In recent years, two of his four sons have kept the family name in the political spotlight: Jean-Louis Debre, a former judge, is currently Interior Minister; Bernard Debre, a surgeon who attended the late President Francois Mitterrand, became Mayor of Amboise in 1992 and served as Minister of Cooperation in 1994 and 1995. Mr. Debre is also survived by two other sons, Vincent and Francois, and by his wife.
        Born in Paris on Jan. 15, 1912, to parents who were both physicians, Michel Debre attended the exclusive Lycee Louis-le-Grand and then studied law at the University of Paris. In 1936 he married the former Anne-Marie Lemaresquier, the daughter of a prominent architect, and two years later he began working as an aide to Paul Reynaud, then Finance Minister and later Prime Minister.
        By the time France declared war on Germany in 1939, Mr. Debre had joined the army as a cavalry officer. He was captured when Germans occupied France in June 1940, escaped and, in 1942, joined the faction of the French Resistance that was loyal to the Free French Forces, which were based in London and led by de Gaulle.
        In 1943 Mr. Debre left France for Algeria, returning home the following year as de Gaulle's representative in the Angers region after the liberation of France by Allied troops.
        After the war he played an important role in reorganizing the civil service and helped found the prestigious Ecole Nationale d'Administration, which has trained much of France's political elite over the past half-century. He was attached to a French economic mission to the Saar in 1947 and was in charge of German and Austrian affairs in the Foreign Ministry in 1948. That year he was elected to the Senate.
        In 1947 Mr. Debre published a book, ''The Death of the Republican State,'' in which he sharply criticized what he considered the built-in political weakness of the Fourth Republic, including its electoral system of proportional representation. When elements of the French Army and French settlers in Algeria rose up against the Government in May 1958, Mr. Debre reportedly saw a chance of speeding the demise of the Fourth Republic.
        That same month de Gaulle was called out of retirement to become Prime Minister and Mr. Debre, as Justice Minister, played a central role in preparing a new Constitution that gave de Gaulle -- and later Presidents -- enormous centralized power and effectively ended the political instability. Mr. Debre was rewarded by being appointed head of President de Gaulle's first Government on Jan. 1, 1959.
        The widening Algerian conflict took up much of his energies as Prime Minister. He sympathized with French settlers who opposed ''giving up'' Algeria, and once said, ''One cannot imagine France without Algeria and Algeria without France.''
        In January 1960 he flew to Algiers to defuse a crisis provoked by armed settlers who had occupied the University of Algiers by threatening to resign if troops were used against the settlers.
        But in April 1962, when four French generals backed by the Foreign Legion led an uprising in Algeria, Mr. Debre went on television to call on the public to occupy airports to convince ''these misled soldiers of their grave errors'' should they land on the mainland. He also ordered the arrest of dozens of opponents of de Gaulle.
        The rebellion ended after four days, but it underlined the depth of anger stirred by de Gaulle's decision to grant independence to Algeria.
        A stocky man known for his elegant clothes and short temper, Mr. Debre was replaced when France withdrew from Algeria in 1962. Recalled as Economy Minister under Prime Minister Pompidou in 1966, he continued to speak for the most nationalist sector of the Gaullist movement, strongly backing the withdrawal of French military forces from NATO in 1966, skeptical of the Common Market and a forceful advocate of French nuclear weapons testing.
        In 1981 Mr. Debre made a disastrous bid for the French Presidency, winning barely 1 percent of the votes in the first round of balloting.
        He later published three volumes of memoirs, but it was only with ''Conversations with General de Gaulle, 1961-1969'' in October 1993 that Mr. Debre disclosed his ''numerous and important'' disagreements with de Gaulle, while insisting that he had never been disloyal to his President.
      