
        Bernard B. Jacobs, the president of the mighty Shubert Organization for 24 years and one of the most powerful men in the American theater, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 80 and had homes in Manhattan and Shelter Island, L.I.
        The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Gerald Schoenfeld, chairman of the Shubert Organization. Mr. Jacobs lived in Manhattan.
        As joint heads of the Shubert enterprises, the largest and most important theater owner in the country, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld controlled a formidable cultural and real-estate empire that has had considerable bearing on the American theater and the civic health of New York City. The empire owns and operates 16 Broadway theaters, plus half of the Music Box Theater (with the estate of Irving Berlin), in addition to theaters in Philadelphia, Washington, Boston and Los Angeles, and other real estate property.
        For more than two decades, everything that transpired on Broadway was heavily influenced by the taste and judgment of the two men, who from adjacent offices in Shubert Alley managed to forge their own inimitable means of sharing their special power.
        Deciding What Opened And Closed and When
        Acting as producers as well as theater owners, Mr. Jacobs and his partner have had more to say than anyone else about what shows opened on Broadway -- from ''A Chorus Line'' to ''Cats'' to ''The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby'' to the Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Glengarry Glen Ross'' and ''The Heidi Chronicles.'' At the same time, they also determined what shows closed in their theaters, and when. Although there are other competitive theater owners, none approaches the extensive range of theaters and the sweeping authority of the Shuberts.
        With Mr. Jacobs's death, the 71-year-old Mr. Schoenfeld continues as the head of both the theater organization and of the Shubert Foundation.
        ''We lost not only an esteemed colleague,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said yesterday, ''but also somebody we believe made a major contribution to this company and the American theater during his 40 years in the Shubert Organization.''
        A somber man, sparing and blunt with his words, Mr. Jacobs very much coveted his privacy. He rarely granted interviews, and his name seldom appears in books about the theater. But behind the scenes, he exercised untold influence. Around Broadway, he and Mr. Schoenfeld were collectively known as ''the Shuberts,'' although they were unrelated to the three Shubert brothers who founded the theater empire early in the 20th century. Indeed, they rose to the top of the organization largely through chance.
        Although they stepped into the theater world knowing little about it,  the two men are universally credited with taking a faltering theater concern and transforming it into a modern and financially potent enterprise. Some have suggested that they saved commercial theater in New York.
        As enduring as the longest-running Broadway hit, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld perfected the art of perpetuating control. Who their successors would be has been a persistent subject of speculation in the theater world. Neither ever indicated any inclination to retire, nor did they  reveal a succession plan. In an interview some years ago, Mr. Jacobs said: ''Of all the things in the world I think the least about, it's what happens after you die. Dead is dead.''
        Mr. Schoenfeld and Mr. Jacobs enjoyed equivalent status within the company, and they shared responsibilities as they saw fit. ''It's always been that some deals I make and some deals Gerry makes,'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''There are times when I get sick and tired of dealing with a person and Gerry will take him over. And vice versa. You can get sick of a person fast in this business.''
        As Two Partners, A Study in Contrasts
        In 1994, Mr. Schoenfeld said, ''We've had disagreements, but if either one felt so strongly about something and the other didn't, the other would defer.'' Mr. Jacobs responded, ''We've learned to put up with each other's foibles.''
        Temperamentally as well as professionally, the two men were a study in contrasts, with Mr. Schoenfeld the outside man and Mr. Jacobs the inside man. On opening nights, Mr. Schoenfeld would stand in the aisle before the curtain went up, smiling and embracing the people who had come to his theater, while Mr. Jacobs was more likely to be found in his seat, quietly contemplating the show and its prospects. With his sad, dark-rimmed eyes, Mr. Jacobs had the look of a basset hound, but a basset hound who could tell any potential master to take a walk.
        Although Mr. Jacobs often kept his emotions buttoned up, he could be a man of enthusiasm. But he did not let that enthusiasm carry him away into a financial mistake. He was most persuasive in business dealing, a demon in contract negotiations. Sam Cohn, the theatrical agent, said that negotiating with Mr. Jacobs was like ''the worst migraine you've ever had in your life.'' Mr. Jacobs never hesitated to speak what was on his mind. His reply to Mr. Cohn's comment was, ''I don't like Sam.''
        In terms of theater as well as people, in the classic Broadway sense, he always knew what he liked, but he had the clout to express his taste and judgment in the Broadway arena. Though some criticized him for being too commercial in his taste, Mr. Jacobs had an innate theatrical savviness, and more than many of his peers, he had a healthy respect for creativity.
        Perhaps above all, he liked ''A Chorus Line,'' and he and Michael Bennett, the creator and director of that landmark musical, played the roles in life of father and surrogate son. Helen diFiglia, Mr. Bennett's mother, said: ''Bernie Jacobs was the father Michael never had. Michael treated him that way, and he treated Michael like a son.''
        Many people were important to the life of ''A Chorus Line,'' beginning with Mr. Bennett and including Joseph Papp and Bernard Gersten, who produced the musical at the New York Shakespeare Festival Public Theater. Mr. Jacobs, who encouraged the show's move to the Shubert Theater on Broadway, saw both the artistic value and the phenomenal commercial potential.
        Before ''A Chorus Line'' opened at the Public Theater, when there was some disagreement about the show's future, Mr. Jacobs told Mr. Bennett that he did not think ''dynamite or hell could blow this show out because it was such an overwhelming hit.'' As in many other cases, he proved to be prescient. The show ran at the Shubert Theater for 15 years.
        Despite occasional differences about individual projects, he and Mr. Bennett remained close throughout the director's life, and in his home in Manhattan and on Shelter Island, he kept memorabilia of Mr. Bennett and the musical that made him famous.
        The plays and musicals that Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld jointly produced represent a broad cross-section of the American and English theater. Among them are: ''Nicholas Nickleby,'' Stephen Sondheim's ''Sunday in the Park With George'' and ''Passion,'' ''The Gin Game,'' ''Amadeus,'' ''Jerome Robbins's 'Broadway''' and ''Indiscretions.'' In the coming season, the Shuberts are producing David Hare's ''Skylight.'' Naturally, there were major failures, too, like the musical ''Chess,'' but for the Shuberts, those tended to be forgotten.
        Shunning Pretension And the Spotlight
        Despite his immense influence, Mr. Jacobs resolutely avoided the spotlight. ''Bernie was the most unpretentious man I ever met -- and this in a field in which names mean everything,'' said Dasha Epstein, a Broadway producer and a close friend of Mr. Jacobs and his wife, Betty. ''He was a man who didn't need 'scenery.' ''
        In private, he was known for his sharpness. The producer Albert Poland said he recalled hearing him on the telephone with Baron de Rothschild, saying angrily: ''I can't give you tickets. I'm in the business of selling tickets.'' Then he hung up and explained that the Baron wanted him to donate all the tickets to a performance of ''Cats'' for a benefit. ''What is he?'' said Mr. Jacobs, ''Just a man with a de in front of his name.''
        Mr. Jacobs was born in Manhattan in 1916. His father ran a woolen waste business, in which he assembled scraps of material from clothing businesses and resold them. Mr. Jacobs graduated from Dewitt Clinton High School, New York University and Columbia University Law School. After serving in the Army in the South Pacific in World War II, he practiced law with his brother, dealing mainly with jewelry companies.
        Since the turn of the century, the Shubert brothers -- Sam, Lee and J.J. -- had been a dominant force in the American theater. By 1914, their empire of 350 theaters stretched from New York to California. In 1950,  the Federal Government brought an antitrust suit against the organization, and in 1956, the Shuberts were forced to sell part of their holdings and to relinquish their role in theatrical booking.
        In 1957, Mr. Schoenfeld became the company's primary lawyer. The next year, J. J. Shubert suggested that Mr. Schoenfeld hire another lawyer to help him, and Mr. Schoenfeld brought in Mr. Jacobs, a high school  friend of Mr. Schoenfeld's older brother. Mr. Jacobs first met Mr. Schoenfeld when he was eight, during one of his visits to his house to play cards.
        Mr. Jacobs reported for work at the Shubert offices on St. Patrick's Day of 1958. As a welcoming gesture, J. J. Shubert made clear to Mr. Schoenfeld that he would be held accountable for anything that Mr. Jacobs did wrong.
        After J. J. Shubert died in 1963, his will turned over the bulk of his estate, including the theaters, to the Shubert Foundation, which until then had been a small and little-known arm of the theater company. During an unruly power struggle among irreconcilable directors, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld managed to move to the top of the integrated enterprise in 1972.
        It was not an auspicious time for the company or for Broadway, and neither man began with any theater background. As new theatrical entrepreneurs and real estate owners, they began investing money in plays and acting as producers. By 1974, Mr. Jacobs felt that the Shubert empire was back on track. ''Last year was terrible,'' he said. ''Two years ago was disasterville. Qualitatively and quantitatively, this season is the best in years.'' That season in Shubert houses included ''Equus,'' ''Pippin,'' ''Grease'' and ''Sherlock Holmes.'' The next year, there was ''A Chorus Line,'' which put the operation on solid footing.
        For years controversy followed Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld. In 1974, State Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz filed civil charges against Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld, as well as the executors of J. J. Shubert's estate, saying there had been ''grossly excessive'' claims. The charges were withdrawn in return for a reduction in the claims. Further scandal enveloped the Shuberts when Irving Goldman, who shared power with Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld, was indicted three times in the 1970's on various corruption charges, though he was never prosecuted.
        A Crucial Tax Ruling Preserves an Empire
        Both Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld benefited greatly from a highly unusual and little-known tax ruling in 1979 that gave the Shubert Foundation an exemption to Federal tax laws that declare that private charities generally can not own a controlling stake in a profit-making business. Without the ruling, the foundation would have had to divest itself of the theaters, and there is no telling where Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld would have ended up.
        By keeping the empire intact, Mr. Jacobs and Mr. Schoenfeld continued as heads of both the foundation and the theater organization. Under the tax ruling, the organization's profits are taxed at the normal corporate rate, but what remains after taxes can flow to the foundation and be invested to produce tax-free income for the foundation.
        To a great extent, the two lawyers succeeded in giving the company a different image, partly through the success of the shows in their houses, but also through the increased activity of the Shubert Foundation. The foundation, whose value is estimated at more than $149 million, provides support to nonprofit theaters and dance companies. Mr. Jacobs also introduced computerized methods of ticket sales, linking his box offices to Ticketron outlets in other cities.
        Mr. Jacobs was vice president of the League of American Theaters and Producers and an adjunct professor of theater at Columbia University's School of the Arts. In 1992, he was awarded the Actors' Fund Medal, and in 1995 Columbia Law School presented him with a Distinguished Achievement Award.
        Although he may have seemed like a pessimist, Mr. Jacobs was actually more of a realist, who could be buoyed by his anticipation of the next show, the next season. In 1986, he suddenly woke up one morning and didn't know where he was or who was President, and was diagnosed as having transient global amnesia. Apparently the condition vanished, but in recent years rumors persisted that he was not well. A month before his death, however, he was in London scouting the theater.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Sally Jacobs Baker of Manhattan; a son, Steven, of Oyster Bay; a sister, Edith Kaufman of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 29, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Bernard B. Jacobs, president of the Shubert Organization, misstated the given name and hometown of his son in some editions. He is Steven, not Jeffrey, and he lives in Oyster Bay, L.I., not Manhattan.
      