
        Pat Cool, a longtime New York publishing executive who was in charge of advertising and promotion for the Pocket Books and audio divisions of Simon & Shuster, died on Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan.
        His companion, Michael Stinchcomb, said the cause was complications from AIDS.
        In the small world of big-time New York publishing, a revolving-door field where today's rivals are often tomorrow's colleagues, Mr. Cool was a familiar figure. He worked on advertising for several publishers, among them Dell; Crown; Holt, Rinehart & Winston, and Avon.
        Mr. Cool, who specialized in the promotion of mass-market authors like Jackie Collins and Mary Higgins Clark, brought such a passionate intensity to his work  that those who did not remember his towering rages when things were not going well could never forget his spontaneous laugh of delight when they finally came  out right.
        A highly organized man who kept a neat desk and who was invariably meticulously turned out, Mr. Cool was distinctly not a member of the beard-and-ponytail Madison Avenue set, although, as a colleague, Liz Hartman, noted yesterday, as a concession to his profession's tradition for flamboyance,  he might set off his otherwise conservative attire with decidedly "artistic" ties.
        In two stints with Pocket Books, Mr. Cool -- who joined the company in 1985,  left to join Avon Books in 1990 and returned three years later to reclaim his title as vice president and director of advertising and promotion -- was given major credit for the success of the traditional reprint company's move into original hard-cover publishing with books like "The Quilt: Stories from the Names Project."
        A native of Herkimer, N.Y., where his father was a factory worker, Mr. Cool,  whose given name was Pasquale, seemed destined for a career in publishing. "He loved books," his sister Cecelia Rougas said yesterday, recalling that her brother haunted the public libraray as a child and compiled such an impressive academic record that he won a full scholarship to Hobart College.
        After graduating with a degree in classical languages, Mr. Cool taught Latin  for a few years before coming to New York, where he made a brief, abortive run at a career as an author.
        Having become obsessed with Anais Nin's famous "Diaries," and wrangling an assignment from Andy Warhol's Interview magazine, he obtained a lengthy interview with Miss Nin, but when a robber broke into his apartment and made off with his tapes of their two days of candid conversations, he decided to stick to the business side of publishing.
        In addition to Mr. Stinchcomb and Mrs. Rougas, of Liverpool, N.Y., he is survived by another sister, Dorothy Licari of Frankfort, N.Y.; a brother, William, of Ridgewood, N.J., eight nieces and nephews and several grandnieces and nephews.
      