
        William M. Alexander, an educator who was a leader in the movement to supplant conventional junior high schools with middle schools that provide young adolescents with a smaller and more intimate educational environment, died on Tuesday at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 84.
        Dr. Alexander, who retired in 1977 after 14 years as professor of education at the University of Florida,  became convinced in the early 1960's that most conventional junior high school had become rather static, being modeled on programs at senior high schools.
        He and others began to advocate specific programs and other ideas for middle schools, and in the decades since then, thousands of middle schools have been established around the United States.
        Middle school pupils variously range in age from 11 to 14 or from 10 to 15. They are generally in the fifth through the eighth grades.
        The main ingredients of the middle-school concept, according to The Middle School Journal, a professional publication, include a comprehensive curriculum plan, team planning and teaching, various instructional plans and health and physical education programs tailored to meet the needs of adolescent students.
        The journal said a turning point in Dr. Alexander's career came in 1963, while he was waiting at La Guardia Airport for a plane to Ithaca, N.Y., where he was to address a Cornell University conference on middle-level education.
        Then and there, he decided to recommend in his address to the conference that, as the journal put it, ''the concept of junior high schools be changed to middle schools that were designed to be more responsive to the needs and interests of young adolescents.''
        He presented the proposal, and the middle school movement is often said to have begun at that time.
        One reason for his recommendation, the journal said, was the view that the requirements of young adolescents were not being fulfilled by schools where eight years of elementary school were followed by four years of high school or schools where six years of elementary school were followed by three years of junior high and three years of senior high.
        It also seemed that the new arrangement would provide an environment for carrying out innovations in education and would enhance continuity in the overall school program.
        Anthony Jackson of the Carnegie Corporation who was the primary author of the corporation's 1989  study that made recommendations about the education of middle-school children said the study reflected the kind of research and scholarship that Dr. Alexander had conducted.
        Dr. Alexander was born in McKenzie, Tenn., graduated from high school there and went on to earn a bachelor's degree in 1934 from Bethel College in McKenzie. He earned a master's degree in education in 1936 from what is now the Peabody College for Teachers, a unit of Vanderbilt University, and a doctorate in 1940 from Columbia Teachers College.
        After earning his doctorate, Dr. Alexander became a high official of the Cincinnati public school system. Later he taught education at the University of Tennessee, held other posts in public school administration and taught at Peabody College before joining the University of Florida faculty. He wrote more than 250 books and articles in his field over the years.
        Dr. Alexander is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Nell McLeod; two sons, William M. Jr., of Convent Station, N.J., and Philip M., of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      