
        Robert Reinhold, an editorial writer at The Los Angeles Times and before that a longtime reporter for The New York Times, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 54.
        The cause was complications of a brain tumor, said Dr. Timothy Cloughsey, a neuro-oncologist at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.
        Mr. Reinhold left The New York Times in January 1994 after a 30-year career that included stints as a science writer and bureau assignments in Boston, Washington, Houston and Los Angeles. He covered the world of ideas from Boston and urban affairs and demographics in Washington; he was bureau chief in Houston and Los Angeles.
        Along the way he developed a reputation as a fast, meticulous and insightful reporter with a cool, stylish presence, who became a role model for a generation of national correspondents.
        Robert Reinhold was born on Dec. 18, 1941, in Brooklyn. He grew up in the Flatbush section near Brooklyn College where his father, Meyer Reinhold, taught classics.
        After graduating from Midwood High School in Brooklyn, he won a scholarship to John Hopkins University, where he studied biology, chemistry and physics and became the editor in chief of the campus newspaper. While working on a master's degree in journalism at Columbia University, he was hired as a part-time copy boy at The New York Times in 1964.
        He became a science reporter three years later and was one of the paper's most prolific writers from 1967 until 1994.
        Mr. Reinhold's first out-of-town assignment set the tone for his career.  Sent to the South Pole to cover scientific developments there, he soon tired of the V.I.P. treatment at the United States Navy operations center at McMurdo Station.
        Equipped with tent, C-rations, ice ax, gas stove, fuel, two sleeping bags and a foam-rubber mattress, he ventured to a remote area he described as ''one of Antarctica's three eerie, other-worldly valleys whose glaciers had melted away millenia ago, leaving jagged rocks and sand in their path.'' There he joined two puzzled American geologists from Wyoming studying mountain rock formations who never could figure out why a Times reporter wanted to join them in their frigid desolation.
        In addition to his science articles, he filed an article on spending Christmas Day eating powdered mashed potatoes in the Antarctic and stopped off at Waikiki Beach on his way back home to New York.
        Mr. Reinhold arrived in Texas near the peak of the state's economic boom of the 1970's and 80's and was ahead of virtually all his peers in foreseeing the bust when oil prices collapsed in 1985.
        Typical of his reporting was a 4,000-word piece in The Times in September 1986 that was the first to report on the impending financial downfall of former Gov. John B. Connally of Texas, detailing everything down to the $899 queen-size rattan sleeper-sofa and $86 lamps for which Mr. Connally was overdue on payments to the Texana National Bank of Belton.
        ''Connally is the story of Texas, a state that bet too heavily on itself, believing it could not lose,'' he wrote.
        Similarly, Mr. Reinhold went to California just as the sun-kissed California myth was giving way to a harsher reality of urban unrest and natural disaster. His articles there went from the San Francisco earthquake in 1989 to issues of immigration, water policy and the economic complexities of the state's conversion from the military-based economy of the cold war to one based on peacetime spending.
        With characteristic precision, a year after the riots that followed the state acquittal of the police officers who beat Rodney G. King, he surveyed records and buildings for 1,118 structures damaged in the riots and found that 513 had been repaired, with the lowest rate of repairs in the largely black and Hispanic South-Central area.
        And while Mr. Reinhold was best known for tough, analytical news reporting, a ferocious work schedule and an uncanny knack for getting to disasters sooner than anyone else, he was also known for his style. Indeed, with his Armani suits and Gucci shoes, his measured subdued style and air of perpetual calm, Mr. Reinhold was a stark contrast to most of his rumpled, harried peers running around with their coffee-stained ties askew.
        He often betrayed a softer side of his personality in articles for The Times's Travel section.
        Writing of Hilo, Hawaii, where he said, it rains 280 days a year, roughly 130 inches, he blended his usual precision with a wry eye, reporting,  ''Hilo seems stuck in time, a throwback to Hawaii's plantation days, when the islands were merely a quiet territory of the United States and when the economy was based more on growing sugar cane and pineapple than on catering to Japanese tourists in search of such typical Hawaiian handicrafts as Gucci luggage and Rolex watches.''
        And reminiscing in 1993 about hitchhiking through Europe as a young man 30 years earlier, he concluded: ''Now I stay in comfortable hotels and eat in good restaurants when I travel. But I often long for those days when riding through Sicily under fleecy clouds in the open bed of a cheese truck was a sublime experience and the small pleasures were enough.''
        In addition to his father, he is survived by a sister, Helen Barrett, of Nashville, and his companion, Michael R. Mueller, of Los Angeles.
      