
        Dr. Wallace Harry Graham, a retired brigadier general who was the personal physician for President Harry S. Truman and his wife, Bess, died on Thursday at  the Research Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo. He was 85 and lived in Kansas City, where he returned to practice after his years at the White House.
        Dr. Graham waded ashore at Omaha Beach during the Normandy invasion in World  War II and treated the wounded in the thick of battle, across France and Belgium into Germany. In August 1945, as a colonel stationed in Stuttgart, Germany, he was summoned by Brig. Gen. Harry Vaughn, Mr. Truman's military aide, who was with the President at the Potsdam Conference.
        Colonel Graham had never met the Trumans, but his father, Dr. James W. Graham, was a Kansas City physician and a friend of theirs. After an interview with the President, he was offered the post of White House physician and an assignment at the Walter Reed Army Hospital, where he taught and worked as a surgeon.
        He had a suite of offices filled with the latest in medical technology on the ground floor of the White House, and he also treated some senior staff members.  But, he said in an interview in the New York Times Magazine in 1946, the Trumans were so healthy that he felt like the country's "most disemployed doctor."
        Among his duties was to see that members of the Truman family watched their diets, exercised properly and got plenty of sleep.
        Once, in 1952, he doubled as a make-up artist when Mr. Truman walked into a door at night. The President got a black eye he tried to hide behind a paint job by Dr. Graham and a pair of sunglasses.
        While in the White House, Dr. Graham advanced to the rank of temporary major  general of the Air Force. President Dwight D. Eisenhower nominated him to the permanent rank of brigadier general in the Air Force Reserve in March 1953.
        He continued to look after the Trumans in their hometown of Independence, Mo. When the 70-year-old former President was rushed to a Kansas City hospital for emergency surgery in 1954, Dr. Graham removed his gallbladder and appendix.
        Wallace Graham was born in Highland, Kan., and grew up in Kansas City. He developed a lifelong interest in botany while at the University of Missouri and  Central Missouri State Teachers College, where he graduated in 1932. He also boxed and was on the track team.
        He earned his medical degree at Harvard Medical School and shared a private practice with his father until he was called up for duty in the Army Reserve. He was posted to several medical installations and advanced to captain by the time  the United States entered World War II.
        In the spring of 1944 he was sent to England as a member of the First Hospital Unit of the First Army. He went ashore at Easy Red Omaha Beach four days after D-Day, with the battle raging a few miles ahead.
        The hospital unit pitched tents in an open field that had been the scene of fierce fighting a day earlier. By nightfall, his tents, with 400 beds, had taken in close to 900 of the wounded.
        The unit saw some of the war's bitterest engagements, including the Battle of the Bulge, where Dr. Graham was wounded.
        He was awarded the Bronze Star, and other decorations, as well as medals from France, Britain, the Netherlands and Belgium.
        Dr. Graham is survived by his wife of 60 years, Velma Hill Graham; two sons,  Dr. Bruce, of Overland Park, Kan., and Dr. Wallace S., of Santa Fe, N.M.; a daughter, Heather Foote of Columbia, Mo., and eight grandchildren.
      