
        Abraham Nash, a former labor leader who was a writer on social issues and a retired professor of sociology at Cornell University, died on Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Washington Heights in Manhattan.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Professor Nash, a longtime shop steward and union organizer, acquired his formal education late in life. He graduated from Columbia University at 50 and started teaching at Cornell a year later, in 1966. Between then and 1972, he received a master's degree in sociology, also from Columbia, and completed a Ph.D. in sociology at New York University at 57.
        He retired in 1985 from Cornell's School of Industrial Relations. While there, he was in charge of the labor relations certificate program that Cornell conducted for Empire State College of the State University of New York.
        He was born in Baltimore, grew up in New York and got his first jobs through the Works Progress Administration, working for a theater group and managing the Labor Bookstore in Greenwich Village. He later was a shop steward for the United Automobile Workers in an aircraft plant on Long Island.
        As an organizer, he lost his deferment from the draft and served with the Army in Europe. After World War II, he moved to Detroit and returned to his U.A.W. activities as a shop steward, business agent and local union president.
        He then worked with the Electrical Workers Union and a number of unions in New York, including District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, as well as the Taxi Drivers Union, the musicians union and Local 1199 of the hospital workers union. He helped organize Local 1707 of the federation.
        He planned job actions and represented union members in collective bargaining. He also began to teach classes for union officers and members and later wrote articles and books on labor history and labor-management issues.
        Professor Nash's wife of 38 years, May Herbert Nash, died in 1994. An earlier marriage, to Anne Gelman, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by a daughter and son from his first marriage, Margo Nash and Paul Nash of Manhattan; a sister, Anne Pitt of Dallas, and a half-brother, Kenneth Nash of Fair Lawn, N.J.
      