
        Jackson Holbrook Bailey, a leading American educator in Asian studies, died on Aug. 2 at his home in Brattleboro, Vt. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In addition to teaching at Earlham College in Richmond, Ind., Mr. Bailey produced educational films and documentaries on Japan. In the 1970's he joined with Edwin O. Reischauer, the scholar of Japanese culture and former Ambassador to Tokyo, to create a series of 32 half-hour Japanese history lessons for broadcast on public television.
        Mr. Bailey also founded a resource center for audiovisual materials about Asia as well as a production unit to create such materials for classroom use. He collaborated with American and Japanese educators and television producers on various projects and was associated with a Japan-based multimedia institute.
        He established Earlham's Institute for Education on Japan, directed its Center for Asian Studies and taught Japanese history and culture at Earlham until his retirement in 1994.
        He extended his work to a consortium of Midwestern colleges as the director of the Center for East Asian Studies within the Great Lakes College Association.
        A lifelong Quaker, Mr. Bailey was a trustee of the Friends School of Tokyo. He was also involved in rural development projects in Japan, and was honored by the Emperor and Government of Japan in 1988.
        Mr. Bailey was born in Portland, Me. He was graduated from Earlham, a Quaker college, in 1950, and received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin and a Ph.D. in history and Asian languages from Harvard University. He returned to Earlham to teach in 1959, and  coached its men's volleyball team to a national intercollegiate championship in 1969.
        He was the author, co-author or editor of many articles and papers. His most recent book was ''Ordinary Lives, Extraordinary People: A Study of Political and Economic Change in a Tohoku Village'' (1991).
        He is survived by his wife, Caroline Palmer Bailey; three sons, Jay A. of Brattleboro as well as Christopher H. Baisan of Tucson, Ariz., and Bruce C. Baizel of Durango, Colo., who incorporated part of their wives' names into their own; a daughter, Linda Bailey of Brattleboro; a brother, Marriner, of Chittenden, Vt.; a sister, Nichola Bailey of Westwood, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      