
        William N. Schoenfeld, a behaviorist who helped establish psychology as a solid scientific discipline at American universities, died on Saturday at his home in Sun City West, Ariz. He was 80.
        He suffered a long illness, according to Columbia University, where he had been a faculty member.
        In 1949, he and and a colleague, Dr. Fred S. Keller, introduced an undergraduate psychology course in which each student learned the basics by testing and manipulating the responses and habits of one white rat. That addition to the curriculam made Columbia the first university in the world where undergraduates experimented with living animals from the start to finish of the course.
        With Dr. Keller, he wrote ''Principles of Psychology,'' an influential college text published in 1950 that emphasized scientific methodology in the study of psychology. Students used the book first in courses at Columbia College, where the two professors offered two hours of lectures a week, interwoven for the first time with four hours of laboratory work.
        As part of their experiments, the students observed the responses of white rats to stimuli and rewards. And they measured human learning by testing people's ability to remember the pathways of mazes and various sensory processes.
        ''Psychology subsequently became a science credit course, changing the way the subject was taught,'' said Dr. Eliot Hearst, an adjunct professor at Columbia and profesor emeritus of psychology at Indiana University. ''Some of the experiments Professors Schoenfeld and Keller devised with graduate and undergraduate students had never been performed before, and the students were excited to be making original contributions to science.''
        Dr. Hearst was one of the students then. Dr. Keller died last Feb. 2.
        Dr. Schoenfeld's own contributions as a behaviorist grew from those of B. F. Skinner and Ivan Pavlov. In experiments in 1953, for instance, he led a Columbia team in discovering that with certain timing of stimuli, anxiety caused the human heart rate to slow rather than quicken.
        William Schoenfeld was born in New York City. He graduated from City College in 1937 and received a Ph.D. from Columbia in 1942. He started lecturing on psychology there that year and advanced to full professor by 1958. In 1966, he joined the faculty of Queens College, became chairman of the psychology department and retired as professor emeritus in 1983.
        He wrote or edited three more texts, ''The Theory of Reinforcement Schedules'' (1970), ''Stimulus Schedules'' (1972) and ''Religion and Human Behavior'' (1993).
        Dr. Schoenfeld's survivors include his wife, Melanie; a son, Joshua, of New York City; two daughters, Naomi, also of New York City, and Rivka, of Jerusalem; and a son by a previous marriage, Mark, of Hopewell Junction, N.Y.
      