
        Sir Nevill Francis Mott, a British physicist whose spadework for a new branch of solid-state physics was crowned with a Nobel Prize, died on Thursday at a hospital in Milton Keynes, England. He was 90 and lived in the nearby village of Aspley Guise.
        He suffered a brief illness, said Prof. Archibald Howie, a successor to Dr. Mott as head of the Cavendish Laboratory of Cambridge University.
        Dr. Mott shared the 1977 Nobel Prize in Physics with two other theoretical physicists, Dr. Philip W. Anderson of Bell Telephone Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., and Dr. John H. Van Vleck of Harvard University. They had furnished the underpinnings for engineers to create computer memories, office copying machines, transistor radios, pocket calculators and sundry other wonders of modern life.
        Or as the citation put it, the prize recognized their ''fundamental theoretical investigations of the electronic structure of magnetic and disordered systems.''
        Dr. Mott worked in solid-state physics for decades, eventually zeroing in on amorphous semiconductors. These are electronic switching and memory devices made of relatively cheap glassy materials instead of expensive crystal.
        They are called amorphous because their atomic structures are irregular, or basically unstructured, by nature. In crystalline matter, instead, the constituent atoms or molecules are aligned in ordered, three-dimensional arrays.
        Since amorphous semiconductors were easier to prepare than those of high-quality crystal, the theories of the three Nobelists, one built upon the one before, found practical applications in an eager marketplace.
        Dr. Van Vleck, considered the ''father of modern magnetism'' by his peers, described the magnetic properties of solids in the 1930's. Though his discoveries found no immediate technical use, his explanation of how a foreign atom invades and distorts the symmetrical structure of a crystal was basic to the electronic interactions in today's computer memory systems.
        Enter Dr. Anderson and Dr. Mott and the amorphous semiconductor. Dr. Anderson published a paper in 1958 that showed under what conditions an electron in a disordered -- amorphous -- system like glass can either move through the system as a whole, or become more or less tied to a specific position as a localized electron.
        That phenomenon is known as ''Anderson localization.'' That left unresolved the physics of amorphous materials; their very disorder made them seem forbiddingly complex even to a keen scientific mind.
        Dr. Mott picked up on Dr. Anderson's idea about 10 years later. He recognized the potential of exploring the electrical conductivity of amorphous materials, which might be used in electronics in the same way, more or less, as crystal semiconductors.
        As it turned out, he was right. Dr. Mott came the closest to envisioning the practical applications of the field that all three men had pioneered in.
        ''He has a tremendous intuition,'' Dr. Hellmut Fritzsche, chairman of the physics department at the University of Chicago, said when Dr. Mott received the Nobel. ''When he has an idea, he sets the whole field of solid-state physics in motion.''
        Dr. Mott's early research focused on the application of quantum mechanics to problems in nuclear physics and the scattering of particles by atoms and nuclei. He was the author or co-author of classic texts on subjects like wave mechanics, the properties of metals and alloys, the theory of atomic collisions, elementary quantum mechanics and metal-insulator transitions. Each book marked a significant phase of research.
        The future Nobelist was born on Sept. 30, 1905, in Leeds, England. His interest in science was piqued while his parents were students at the Cavendish Laboratory. A scholarship carried him through studies under Lord Rutherford, the pioneer in atomic science, whom he later succeeded as head of Cavendish.
        He taught at Bristol University, where he became a professor of physics at 28. He interrupted his work at Bristol in World War II to instruct British intelligence officers about German rocketry, radar and weapons systems.
        Dr. Mott was admired in his profession for an uncanny ability to move intricate abstract theories speedily into the real world. He honed that gift as president of the British Atomic Scientist Association in the 1940's when he often spoke of the awful perils and blithe promises of the dawning nuclear age. A debate was raging over whether a nuclear explosion could trigger uncontrollable chain reactions in the atmosphere or in natural uranium deposits and blow up the world. Dr. Mott sided with the naysayers.
        Cambridge University named him Cavendish professor of experimental physics in 1954. He retired in 1971, but remained active there pursuing applications of his research to the production of cheap solar energy.
        Outside the laboratory, he was fond of photography and numismatics. He was knighted in 1962.
        Dr. Mott is survived by his wife of 65 years, Ruth Horder Mott; two daughters, Elizabeth Mott of Hartfordshire, and Alice Crampin of Milton Keynes; a sister, Joan Fitch of Cambridge, and three grandchildren.
      