
        John D. McDonald, who with Alfred P. Sloan Jr. wrote ''My Years With General Motors,'' a classic volume on business strategy that has been used as a college text for 35 years, died Dec. 23 of respiratory failure, his daughter Joan McDonald Miller said yesterday. He was 92.
        Mr. McDonald was visiting his other daughter, Christie, at her vacation home in Berkshire, Vt., when he died, Mrs. Miller said.
        Mr. McDonald had been a dedicated Trotskyite in the 1930's but became a chronicler of capitalism when Fortune magazine hired him as a staff writer in 1945. He wrote about a wide range of subjects for the magazine, including business strategies, fly-fishing and horse racing.
        His best-known work was the 1964 memoir of Alfred P. Sloan Jr., the visionary executive who ran General Motors from 1923 to 1956. Mr. McDonald was listed as the editor of the book, which was based partly on tape-recorded interviews with Mr. Sloan, but he actually wrote it, Jason Epstein, the editor who acquired it for Doubleday, said yesterday.
        In the weeks before he died, Mr. McDonald was shopping a 70,000-word manuscript, ''A Ghost's Memoir,'' in which he told how General Motors tried to suppress the book because the company believed it could be used by the Justice Department to launch an antitrust case against it.
        For five years Mr. McDonald and Mr. Sloan had worked to hone the book's story of how Mr. Sloan melded a gaggle of car companies and parts makers into the biggest industrial corporation in the world. But on March 4, 1959, according to a recent article in Forbes by Dan Seligman, who helped Mr. McDonald research the book, Mr. Sloan told Mr. McDonald, ''John, we are not publishing.'' Mr. McDonald then began a five-year struggle to get the book published.
        Mr. Seligman, a contributing editor at Forbes, said yesterday that Mr. McDonald ''was a terribly serious guy, so even when he wrote about fishing and horse racing there was a real scholarly tone to his work.''
        Mr. McDonald's other business books included ''Strategy in Poker, Business and War'' in 1950 and ''The Game of Business,'' about game theory and business strategy, in 1975. He also wrote three books on fly-fishing: ''The Complete Fly Fisherman'' (1947), ''The Origins of Angling'' (1963) and ''Quill Gordon'' (1972).
        He retired from Fortune in 1971. Five years later he received the Gerald Loeb Memorial Award, one of the highest honors in financial journalism.
        Mr. McDonald worked in his father's Detroit pharmacy and became a licensed pharmacist. He then moved into radical politics, becoming a prominent follower of Leon Trotsky in the 1930's when the Russian revolutionary was being denounced by Stalin as a traitor.
        His first marriage, to Lorraine Oven in 1928, ended in divorce. He married Dorothy Eisner in 1936. She died in 1984.
        He is survived by his daughters, Joan McDonald Miller of Manhattan and Christie McDonald of Cambridge, Mass., and three grandsons.
      