
        August Everding, the German opera director and administrator who once ran the Munich and Hamburg State Opera companies and created five productions for the Metropolitan Opera, died on Wednesday in a Munich hospital. He was 70.
        Mr. Everding died following a long illness, officials at the Bavarian Theater Academy said.
        Among the productions Mr. Everding developed for the Met was, in 1985, Mussorgsky's ''Khovanschina,'' which returns to the Met in March. Although he employed the latest stage technology and innovative lighting designs in his productions, Mr. Everding considered himself fundamentally a traditionalist. He brought to his work a wide range of knowledge, rich artistic experience and a gregarious enthusiasm.
        Mr. Everding was born on Oct. 31, 1928, in Bottrop, Germany. He studied the piano, philosophy, theology and dramaturgy at the Universities of Bonn and Munich. He first worked in the theater, becoming the director of the Munchner Kammerspiele from 1963 until 1973. During this period, he began directing opera, including the world premiere of the English composer Humphrey Searle's ''Hamlet'' at the Hamburg State Opera in 1968. He became the resident director there in 1973, then accepted the post of General Intendant of the Munich State Opera in 1977.
        He worked in several international houses, including the Bayreuth festival in Germany and the Royal Opera, Covent Garden, in London. His Met debut came in 1971 with a visually breathtaking and widely acclaimed production of Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde.'' He next directed Mussorgsky's ''Boris Gudonov'' in 1974. Two years later, he directed a new production of Wagner's ''Lohengrin,'' with sets by Ming Cho Lee, which the New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg called the ''most striking 'Lohengrin' ever to be seen in New York.'' This was replaced last season with a production by Robert Wilson that got a decidedly mixed reception. His last directorial work at the Met was Wagner's ''Fliegende Hollander in 1989, perhaps Mr. Everding's most boldly abstract work for the company.
        In 1984, Mr. Everding was a top candidate to replace Anthony A. Bliss as general manager of the Met. He was of the old school, used to supervising all aspects of the companies he was associated with. News reports at the time suggested that Mr. Everding was concerned that James Levine, who had been appointed the artistic director the previous year, would have exclusive say over artistic matters, though Mr. Everding publicly denied this, saying that he and Mr. Levine had worked together and were ''good friends.'' He eventually took his name out of contention and the job went to Bruce Crawford, who served until 1989.
        Mr. Everding is survived by his wife, Gustava, and four sons.
        Watching Mr. Everding in rehearsal for the Met's ''Lohengrin'' in 1976, the critic Peter G. Davis described him in The New York Times as ''a short, stocky prancing Pickwickian figure whose extra reserves of nervous energy are taken out on chewing his large, floppy necktie.''
        At the time of his death, Mr. Everding was engaged as the artistic director for the German display at the World's Fair planned in Hanover in 2000.
      