
        Dr. David Platt Rall, a cancer specialist and a leader in environmental health research, died on Tuesday in Bordeaux, France. He lived in Washington and was 73.
        The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident 10 days earlier.
        During almost 50 years as a researcher, Dr. Rall was principal or sole author of about 180 scientific papers.
        For 19 years, before he retired in 1990, he led the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, a division of the National Institutes of Health, and was an Assistant Surgeon General in the Public Health Service. From 1978 until 1990, he also led the National Toxicology Program.
        More recently, Dr. Rall was chairman of the Program on Chemical Safety for the World Health Organization. He also served as foreign secretary of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences, was a board member of the Environmental Defense Fund and a scientific counselor at the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health.
        He was especially interested in the problems posed by anticancer drugs, which tend to be toxic in the doses needed to be effective. That led Dr. Rall to predict toxic effects in human patients based on studies of laboratory animals. He also explored the effects of chemicals in the environment on the health of people in various occupations and in the population as a whole.
        David Platt Rall was born on Aug. 3, 1926, in Aurora, Ill., and was reared in nearby Naperville. He received a bachelor's degree at North Central College in 1950, and a medical degree and a doctorate in pharmacology at Northwestern University.
        He was an intern at Bellevue Hospital in New York City before joining the National Cancer Institute in 1954.
        Dr. Rall's first wife, Edith Levy Rall, died in 1987. He is survived by his wife, Gloria Monteiro Rall; two children, Jonathan David, of Irvine, Calif., and Catharyn Elspeth Ertel of Siegsdorf, Germany; two grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Edward, of Kensington, Md.
      