
        Julius K. Nyerere, the founding father of Tanzania who used East Africa as a pulpit from which to spread his socialist philosophy worldwide, died yesterday in London. He was about 77 and was being treated for leukemia, and he suffered a major stroke last week.
        An uncharacteristically humble and modest national leader whose preferred honorific was Mwalimu, the Swahili word for teacher, Mr. Nyerere led his country into independence and guided it for nearly three decades.
        Idealistic, principled, and some would say naively misguided, Mr. Nyerere became one of the most prominent of the first generation of politicians to head newly independent African states as colonialism ebbed, playing a leading role in the debate over economic inequalities between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres.
        When he guided what had been the British Trust Territory of Tanganyika into sovereignty in 1961, he was the youngest of the continent's triumphant nationalists, a group that included Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya, Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia and Felix Houphouet-Boigny of Ivory Coast.
        When he stepped down as President 24 years later, he was only the third modern African leader to relinquish power voluntarily on a continent that by then included 50 independent states. He went neither to jail nor into exile, but to a farm in Butiama, his home village, near the shore of Lake Victoria.
        Mr. Nyerere ascended to power without a single shot being fired, becoming Prime Minister and then President of a land that at the time contained nine million people affiliated with more than 120 tribes, stretching from Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika down to the Indian Ocean.
        It was one of the poorest countries in the world. Its mostly illiterate citizens were scattered over remote regions, often unable to find a common language, although they shared ample rigors as they wrested a meager subsistence from the soil or the sea.
        Early Progress, Enduring Debate
        By the time Mr. Nyerere gave up the last vestiges of political power in 1990, when he retired as chairman of the single political party, Tanzania had undergone staggering, often traumatic, changes.
        The population had doubled, to more than 20 million. It had merged with Zanzibar in 1964. Almost 70 percent of the people had been prodded to move from traditional lands into paternalistically planned villages -- ujamma -- in what became Africa's largest and most debated example of social engineering.
        After vast investment in education, literacy rose phenomenally, and 83 percent of Tanzanians were able to read and write. Mr. Nyerere also succeeded in promoting Swahili so that it superseded dozens of tribal tongues to become a true national language.
        Some Western countries, notably the Scandinavians, were so impressed that they provided billions of dollars, making Tanzania one of the 10 largest recipients of foreign aid per capita.
        But it was still one of the poorest countries in the world. The year he left his party post, the World Bank reported that Tanzanians were surviving on a per-capita income of $200 a year, and that the economy had shrunk on average half a percentage point a year between 1965 and 1988.
        The debate over Mr. Nyerere's leadership extended beyond his tenure, with academics, politicians and development strategists often dividing sharply over his legacy.
        His domestic and international defenders, generally people of the left, praised his emphasis on social investments and his egalitarian economic policies, crediting them with creating a culturally cohesive nation that avoided ethnic conflict while life expectancy, literacy and access to water increased.
        His Tanzanian supporters took pride in Mr. Nyerere's reputation as one of the most prominent proponents of a new economic order that would benefit the developing south in economic relations with the industrial north.
        Mr. Nyerere also gained international prestige for his principled support of the struggles for majority rule in South Africa, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Angola, and for Tanzania's military counter offensive against Idi Amin of Uganda, which routed the dictator and sent him into exile. The third world honored him, and he won the respect of such Western leaders as Olof Palme, Pierre Trudeau, Willy Brandt and Jimmy Carter.
        Still, his critics, who included free-market liberals and conservatives, condemned him for adopting paternalistic and coercive policies like ujamma. They deplored his insistence on one-party rule and price controls, which they said stultified Tanzania's economy, shrank agricultural production, encouraged corruption and led to vast squandering of foreign aid.
        From a Modest Home To a Master's Degree
        The distance Mr. Nyerere traveled from his birth to political power and to the center of an international polemic on development was enormous, spanning ages as well as years.
        He was born into the Zanaki people, a small tribe of 40,000 in the hills southeast of Lake Victoria. His mother, Mugaya, was 15 years old. She had been the fifth wife of Burito Nyerere (pronounced nyuh-RARE-ee), a village headman, who was 61 years old when the boy was born. Later, as the village chief prospered, he took more wives, and when he died at 81, he had 22 wives and 26 surviving children.
        Mugaya's son was named Kambarage, for a rain spirit, for it had rained on the day of his birth (though the year is uncertain, 1922 or '23). Years later, after he attended mission schools, he became a Roman Catholic and chose Julius as his baptismal name.
        He lived the life of a Zanaki child, weeding his mother's garden and going off on bow-and-arrow hunts with the older men. But all that changed when the village chief, with some reluctance, agreed to send his child to board at a school at Musoma, 30 miles from his home.
        Quickly, as he learned Swahili and English, he was spotted as an exceedingly bright child by the White Fathers, the priests who ran the school, and in 1936 he placed first in the entire territory on an entrance exam for a school in Tabora. At the school, which was patterned on private schools in Britain, a native elite was to be trained to help administer their homeland under British rule.
        He spent six years at Tabora, in central northwestern Tanganyika, graduating in 1943. He went on to Makerere University in Uganda, and after being baptized and teaching for two years in a church school, he won a scholarship to Edinburgh University, where he earned a master's degree in history and economics.
        Soon after he went away to school, his father paid a lobola, or bride price, to the family of a girl from his home area as a traditional deposit on a future marriage. But at Makerere, Mr. Nyerere met a Christian girl named Maria Magige. In 1948 he asked her to marry him, and when she agreed, the six cows that his father had given to the family of the prospective child bride were returned to the Nyerere family and were passed on to Maria's parents.
        Maria Magige Nyerere bore him five sons and a daughter. Mrs. Nyerere and the six children were in London when he died, Reuters reported. A state funeral is expected to be held in Dar es Salaam next week before Mr. Nyerere is buried in Butiama, his home village, in northern Tanzania.
        Mrs. Nyerere was the head of the country's major women's organization, the United Women of Tanzania, and she ran a poultry business for some years while her husband was President. But she gave it up when Mr. Nyerere imposed a leadership code that forbade government officials from involvement in a private business in order to discourage corruption.
        New Teacher Offers A Socialist Lesson
        On his return from Scotland, Mr. Nyerere worked as a teacher in a government school. He also won election as president of the Tanganyika African Association, an elite social organization that he quickly transformed into a political party that later led the struggle for independence.
        That new group, the Tanganyika African National Union, was formed on July 7, 1954, a date now celebrated as a national holiday known as Saba Saba, the seventh day of the seventh month.
        When Tanganyika became independent on Dec. 9, 1961, Mr. Nyerere became its first Prime Minister, but six weeks later he suddenly resigned. He remained president of his party, Tanu, and spent nine months traveling throughout the country, meeting ordinary people and preparing a document that he issued under the title ''Ujamma -- The Basis of African Socialism.''
        This was the first of two defining proclamations by which Mr. Nyerere sought to blend the major influences of his life: the cooperative forces he had observed in tribal life, with their emphasis on a constant search for consensus; the ideal of a Christian brotherhood, to which he had been exposed at school, and the goals of welfare-state socialism that he had absorbed from British Labor Party teachings while he lived in an Edinburgh housing project.
        In ''Ujamma'' he declared: ''In acquisitive societies, wealth tends to corrupt those who possess it. It tends to breed in them a desire to live more comfortably than their fellows, to dress better and in every way to outdo them.''
        He then depicted traditional African society as providing sustenance to all members of a community. He wrote that in contrast to Europe, where socialism had arisen in opposition to capitalism, Africa had never known either class division or class struggle. He then concluded: ''Ujamma, or 'familyhood,' describes our socialism. It is opposed to capitalism, which seeks to build a happy society on the basis of the exploitation of man by man, and is equally opposed to doctrinaire socialism, which seeks to build its happy society on the philosophy of inevitable conflict between man and man.''
        Habits of Modesty And Strict Ethics
        On the first anniversary of independence, Tanganyika became a republic. Portraying ujamma as the national goal, Mr. Nyerere was easily elected President.
        One element of his position paper that he adopted quickly and adhered to for the rest of his public life was his disavowal of pomp and perquisites.
        He never received more than $8,000 a year as President. A slight man, standing 5 foot 6 and weighing 125 pounds, he appeared both abroad and at home wearing a gray or black safari shirt over his trousers and a white crocheted skullcap of the sort worn on Zanzibar.
        In contrast to many African leaders, who often raced through their capitals in motorcades with phalanxes of motorcycle outriders, he moved around Dar es Salaam in an old car with just his driver, who stopped for red lights. In his spare time he had translated ''Romeo and Juliet'' and ''Julius Caesar'' into Swahili.
        The second of Nyerere's proclamations was delivered in 1967 and came to be known as the Arusha Declaration, after the northern town where Mr. Nyerere read it to party leaders. It called for a commitment to self-reliance and established the leadership code, which obligated government and party officials to give up all sources of income but their salaries.
        But the most most important provisions established rural development as the country's chief priority.
        In the following months, in town and village meetings, Mr. Nyerere expounded on this, calling upon peasant farmers to voluntarily relocate and pool their labors in collectively harvesting common fields. As he repeatedly explained, Tanzanians were too scattered for services to be brought to them. Only if they gathered in villages would they be able to benefit from schools, clinics, libraries.
        Befitting the teacher he was, he often resorted to didactic slogans, which party stalwarts were quick to paint all over the country. Decades later the fading mottos can still be read on public buildings or small village shops: ''Work Is the Foundation of Progress.'' ''A Poor Country Cannot Rule Itself if It Relies on Foreign Help.'' ''We Must Run While Others Walk.''
        All too often, the slogans faded in an atmosphere of lassitude.
        Seven years after the Arusha Declaration, only some 1,000 ujamma villages had been established and only 2 million of Tanzania's then 14 million people were living in them. Virtually none involved successful collective farming.
        A Rocky Descent Into Economic Gloom
        Mr. Nyerere displayed growing impatience, and in December 1973 he addressed his people on the radio in a scolding tone.
        He said that while the Government had abolished poll taxes, ended school fees and extended water supplies and health clinics in rural areas, the people had done almost nothing in return. While the Government could not turn people into socialists by force, he said, it could insure that everybody lived in a village, and he wanted the entire country to be living in planned settlements by 1976.
        What followed were campaigns of persuasion, intimidation and coercion. People were told that famine relief would be provided only to those who moved peacefully. Because transport was provided by militias and the army, party stalwarts told peasants that if they did not pull down their houses and load them on government trucks, the houses would be demolished. Many homes were burned, and there were a few cases in which people were killed.
        Mr. Nyerere deplored the violence, attributing it to overly zealous local officials, but he insisted that such mistakes should not obscure the success of a program that, he said, had led more than 13 million people to move into ujamma communities by 1976, a movement of close to 70 percent of the population in three years.
        The evaluations of more detached observers were far less enthusiastic. James C. Scott, a Yale agronomist, studied the Tanzanian experience for a book titled ''Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed'' (Yale University, 1998).
        Mr. Scott noted that in contrast to Soviet collectivization, the Tanzanian campaign was not conceived as an all-out war of appropriation. He wrote: ''The disruptions and inhumanities of Nyerere's program, however serious for its victims, were not in the same league as those inflicted by Stalin. Even so, the ujamma campaign was coercive and occasionally violent. It proved, moreover, a failure, ecologically as well as economically.''
        With people moved from their traditional fields, food production plummeted. Moreover, according to outside scholars, 60 percent of the new villages were on semiarid land unsuitable for long-term cultivation.
        Attempts were made to dictate the growing of certain crops, notably fire-cured tobacco, to be sold at what villagers saw as confiscatory prices set by government agencies. Peasants resisted this, and they also ignored annual work plans and production targets. With people having left their old cashew trees behind, a huge share of that once-important crop went ungathered.
        Mr. Scott concluded that the failure of ujamma was virtually guaranteed ''by the high modernist hubris of planners and specialists who believed that they alone knew how to organize a more satisfactory, rational and productive life for their citizens.''
        ''It should be noted,'' he continued, ''that they did have something to contribute to what could have been a more fruitful development of the Tanzanian countryside. But their insistence that they had a monopoly on useful knowledge and that they impose this knowledge set the stage for disaster.''
        Finger-Pointing Taints Search for Aid
        In Dar es Salaam in the late 70's, tales of such willful and miscalculated planning were widely exchanged by the same diplomats who complimented Mr. Nyerere for his concern and decency:
        *After a state agency was organized to market fish, fish disappeared from the market because fisherman no longer found it worth their while to go out.
        *A Norwegian-backed training project to establish coastal shipping was not permitted to carry cargo so it would not compete with the state trucking company.
        *A regulation banning doctors from treating patients privately in their homes after their work in government clinics and hospitals led to the emigration of many doctors.
        *An Italian agronomist developing export crops promoted strawberries, for which there was a strong market in Europe, but a party official declared that unlike beets and potatoes, strawberries were not a socialist fruit.
        Over the years Mr. Nyerere would sometimes acknowledge that Government mismanagement, particularly its abolishment of functioning producer cooperatives, had contributed to sharp declines in staple crops.
        But he placed much more blame on an international economy in which agricultural prices had dropped sharply while the cost of oil, machinery and other imports had risen. He noted that for Tanzania to purchase a seven-ton truck in 1981, it had to produce four times as much cotton, or three times as much coffee, or 10 times as much tobacco as it had five years earlier.
        But whatever the accuracy of those calculations, it was also true that farm production was tumbling, with sisal harvesting, for example, dropping to 33,000 tons in 1985 from 250,000 in 1964.
        Desperately needing credit, Mr. Nyerere turned to the International Monetary Fund and in 1980 began a five-year struggle with the fund, resisting its dictates that he divert funds from education and emphasize export crops while allowing domestic food prices to rise. In this skirmishing, Mr. Nyerere became the third world's most assertive exponent of the new economic order in which the economic imbalance between North and South would be overcome through international law and obligation rather than through markets or charity.
        But he was never able to reach an agreement with the I.M.F., and in 1984, when Tanzania could not meet interest payments to the United States, the Reagan Administration suspended all aid but emergency food allocations.
        Mr. Nyerere reinforced his reputation abroad by his steadfast support of liberation movements in African countries where majority rule had not been achieved. He provided training camps for the African National Congress from South Africa and diplomatic support for national movements fighting in Mozambique and Rhodesia.
        And in 1978, after Uganda annexed a 700-square-mile section of Tanzania, Mr. Nyerere angrily denounced Idi Amin, the Ugandan despot, as a man who had killed more people than either Ian Smith, the white leader of Rhodesia, or John Vorster of South Africa.
        With startling bluntness, he added: ''There is this tendency in Africa to think that it does not matter if an African kills other Africans. Had Amin been white, free Africa would have passed many resolutions condemning him. Being black is becoming a certificate to kill fellow Africans.''
        Mr. Nyerere, who as a youthful pan-Africanist President had considered doing without an army, reasoning that such a force would be useless against great powers and therefore could only fight African neighbors, sent Tanzanian soldiers and Ugandan exile volunteers to push back Mr. Amin's forces. They routed the Ugandan dictator, who fled into exile in Saudi Arabia.
        After he retired, Mr. Nyerere was often asked whether he had any regrets. In a typical interview, he said he was pleased that ''Tanzanians have more sense of national identity than many other Africans,'' and he expressed pride in the nation's high rate of literacy. As for the poor economy, it had resulted from an ''a hostile international environment,'' he said.
        ''What would I have changed if I had my time again? Not much.''
        The white-haired farmer, the Mwalimu, then turned to his attempts to instill his idea of African socialism.
        ''They keep saying you've failed,'' he mused. ''But what is wrong with urging people to pull together? Did Christianity fail because the world isn't all Christian?''
      