
        Irving Siders, a producer who exported the sights and sounds of Broadway to theaters across the nation, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        The son of a mechanic and a shopkeeper, Mr. Siders grew up in Boston before hitting the road at the age of 16. His first job was serving as a band boy for the pianist Fats Waller, a city-a-day profession that introduced Mr. Siders to the gritty and seductive world of jazz, clubs and show people.
        After World War II, Mr. Siders rode his association with Mr. Waller into a career as a talent manager  and booking agent, setting up tours for jazz performers like Ella Fitzgerald and the Count Basie Band.
        His knack for spotting talent and handling musicians eventually earned Mr. Siders a job at the jazz label Verve Records, where he was a manager. He also served a stint as the entertainment director for Playboy Clubs, booking musicians into nightclubs.
        In the mid-1970's Mr. Siders turned his attention to theater, working as a co-producer on the Broadway production of ''The Poison Tree,'' a critical hit but a popular bomb, opening and closed in a single week in January 1976.
        Mr. Siders quickly began working on the turf he knew best: the road. Over the next 20 years he organized national tours of dozens of Broadway productions, from serious drama like Athol Fugard's ''Master Harold . . . and the Boys'' and rollicking musicals like ''Ain't Misbehavin'.''
        His tours traveled extensively throughout the United States. In 1987 he brought a tour back to New York, staging a revival of Michael Bennett's ''Dreamgirls'' at the Ambassador Theater. It was nominated for a Tony for best revival.
        Mr. Siders is survived by his wife, Pat; his daughter, Sandra Katz of Newton, Mass.; two grandchildren,  and a great grandchild.
        Between booking music and booking musicals, Mr. Siders worked with many of the major stars and star makers of the American theater.
        ''He got along with both the Shuberts and the Nederlanders,'' the composer Mitch Leigh said of two of the nation's largest theater owners. ''There aren't too many people who can say that.''
      