
        William Gottlieb, a real estate investor who was believed to be one of the largest owners of property in the West Village of Manhattan, died Oct. 5, according to The Villager, a neighborhood newspaper. He was 64.
        He had recently suffered a stroke, said William Shutkind, an engineer who worked with him.
        Over the last three decades, Mr. Gottlieb bought more than a hundred properties, many in the meat market area and in the far West Village. They were worth $200 million to $300 million, Mr. Shutkind said.
        Mr. Gottlieb also owned property on the Lower East Side and several restaurants in Greenwich Village, Mr. Shutkind said.
        ''He was a very mysterious person, very unusual,'' Mr. Shutkind said. ''Nobody seemed to know him. He drove a car with the windows knocked out. He dressed very casually. He was very wealthy, but you would never know it.''
        Among people in the real estate business, Mr. Gottlieb was unusual because he apparently neither sold any of his properties nor converted them into cooperative apartments.
        Arnold Warwick, a real estate agent in Greenwich Village, said Mr. Gottlieb had a penchant for thrift. He was known for not rehabilitating his properties beyond making them habitable and applying a fresh coat of paint. He inadvertently became a leading preservationist in the Village simply by not tearing down or changing his buildings.
        Mr. Shutkind said Mr. Gottlieb recently bought an old meat factory building on 10th Avenue, running from West 13th Street to West 14th Street; he had planned to turn it into apartments.
        ''He looked into the future and figured it was a hot area, and it is,'' Mr. Shutkind said.
        Twenty years ago, Mr. Gottlieb had the foresight to buy buildings in the far West Village along Hudson Street and Eighth Avenue, then a marginal area but now much more desirable, Mr. Shutkind said.
        His death has set off conjectures that many of his holdings may now be sold. ''No one knows whether there is or isn't a will,'' Mr. Shutkind said. ''They are still looking for it.''
        He said Mr. Gottlieb's closest survivor was a sister. A phone call to her was not returned.
        Some preservationists say they fear that developers may buy the properties, many of which are vacant, for demolition.
      