
        Jim Jensen, a gravelly voiced and popular WCBS-TV news anchor and news reporter who was a major figure in New York television for years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said former colleagues of his at WCBS.
        Mr. Jensen was with WCBS from 1964 to 1995. Accounts have differed as to why he left then, but it has been suggested that his contract was not renewed.
        He was a news anchor for most of his years with WCBS. He lost his anchor job briefly in the 1980's but came back in that capacity in the 1990's. For some years during his tenure at WCBS-TV, it had the most-watched newscasts in the city.
        Broad-shouldered and rugged-looking, he was sometimes said to look like the actor Jack Palance. On screen, he had an ''aura of, 'I'm telling it like it is. This is what happened,' '' a former co-worker, Chris Borgen, recalled. ''You really believed him. He was like Walter Cronkite.''
        After the terrorist bombing at the World Trade Center in 1993, Mr. Jensen, who was anchoring that coverage, tried in a conversation on the air to reassure a worker who was trapped on the 107th floor. No emergency worker had yet visited that floor.
        With a trembling voice, the worker, Scott Salem, said that the smoke in his office was growing worse, and that the people trapped with him, particularly a pregnant woman who was having difficulty breathing, were becoming more anxious.
        Mr. Jensen instructed him, on the air, ''Tell them to calm down,'' and said, ''We're going to try to get help to you.''
        WCBS became flooded with calls from people trapped inside the building who were apparently watching the broadcast on battery-operated television sets. The station's general manager, Bud Carey, said later that WCBS had been in the position of ''being part of the story and trying to report the story,'' and that its staff ''tried to connect people with the Fire Department and the police.''
        In 1982, WCBS reported that Mr. Jensen, having been the anchor for Channel 2 News for 18 years, had become ''New York's longest-running anchorman.'' At that time, he had been the anchor for Channel 2 News at Six since soon after he joined WCBS, and he had been the anchor for Channel 2 News at Eleven for seven years.
        ''Consistency is the key word; you can't rely on gimmickry or you don't last long,'' Mr. Jensen said at that time. ''You just do your job.''
        He also relished going out and covering the news. He reported on Robert F. Kennedy's 1964 campaign for the Senate and on the racial unrest in the long, hot summers in the 1960's. He repeatedly visited the Middle East and came to be recognized when he walked the streets of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv.
        Despite the strength Mr. Jensen exuded, he had trouble with depression and with substance abuse. In the realm of substance-abuse treatment, his example also commanded a large audience. In 1990, WCBS broadcast some program segments about treatment he had undergone for addiction to alcohol and Valium. When, at that time, the station broadcast the number of the toll-free phone line of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, the council's operators received more than 1,000 calls from the metropolitan region over five days.
        Mr. Jensen, who was of Danish descent, was born in Kenosha, Wis., and received a bachelor's degree in broadcast journalism from the University of Denver. He worked in radio broadcasting and went on to join WBZ-TV in Boston, where he did news broadcasts and special reports, including one called ''Assignment -- Prison.''
        The prominent people he interviewed over the years included Jimmy Hoffa, Fidel Castro, Moshe Dayan and King Hussein of Jordan.
        Among the honors he won were Emmy Awards and the New York State Associated Press Broadcasters Association Award.
        His son Randall died in 1979 in a hang glider accident near Ellenville in Ulster County, N.Y.
        Jim Jensen's marriage to his first wife, Gerda, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Rachel Gordon Jensen, two daughters and a  son.
        After his death, his wife said he was ''so sweet and kind; he was at times a difficult person, but he was worth it.''
        Correction:  October 20, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the New York television news anchor Jim Jensen on Monday misstated the number of surviving children. Besides a son, he is survived by three daughters, not two.
      