
        Jerzy Turowicz, who skirmished with Communist censors for nearly four decades to produce a Polish Catholic weekly that became widely known as ''the only free newspaper from Berlin to Vladivostok,'' died on Wednesday in Cracow. He was 86 and had suffered a heart attack.
        News of Mr. Turowicz's death was brought to Pope John Paul II while he was about to celebrate Mass in St. Louis. He then prayed for the soul of the man who had been described as his closest friend at the time of his election to the papacy in 1978.
        In the years after Communism fell in their native Poland in 1989, they differed over issues like abortion, but their friendship went back to a time when Mr. Turowicz published the Pope's poems and essays while he was still Karol Wojtyla, a priest from Cracow.
        The death was front-page news all over Poland, and Thursday's issues of Gazeta Wyborcza, a Warsaw daily, devoted eight pages to Mr. Turowicz, including a poem about him by Czeslaw Milosz, the 1980 Nobel laureate in literature. In an editorial, the paper said Mr. Turowicz ''was the moral authority of several generations of Polish intellectuals; a wonderful essayist and a rational commentator on everything.''
        Referring to his Cracow-based publication, whose name means The Universal Weekly, the editorial added, ''For more than a half century he established Tygodnik Powszechny as an achievement without precedent in the annals of Polish culture, an achievement that for many years provided the only light in the dark Polish tunnel.''
        The magazine was founded in 1945, sponsored by Adam Sapieha, who was then Archbishop of Cracow. But after Mr. Turowicz took over as editor in 1951, he moved it away from direct church control, often enraging both Communist and church officials with its independence. Perhaps his boldest act occurred when, after the death of Stalin in 1953, party officials ordered him to publish a eulogy of the Soviet despot. He refused, and as a result the paper was taken away from him and turned over to a Catholic group called Pax that was collaborating with the Communists.
        Three years later -- after worker-led uprisings in Poznan, Poland; after a Hungarian rebellion was suppressed by Soviet troops, and as a new Polish Communist leadership sought credibility -- the weekly was returned to Mr. Turowicz.
        Standing up to the censors and at times to church leaders, he set about publishing articles on politics, culture and religion that were unavailable anywhere else in the Communist bloc. He battled censors word by word and instituted the practice of including dashes to show the readers where something had been removed.
        ''We are not free to write everything we think,'' he said in 1986, ''but we have never been forced to write anything we do not think. In the East bloc that's a great deal.''
        From a reader's perspective, this view was echoed in this same period by Slawomir Mrozek, Poland's best known playwright, who said Mr. Turowicz had ''shown us that just because you cannot tell the truth, you do not have to tell lies,'' adding, ''Because of Mr. Turowicz, Poles have a newspaper we can believe.''
        Sometimes, in periods of less stringent censorship, his weekly could say things quite directly, as it did when it published an article by its featured essayist, Stefan Kisielewski, titled, ''Socialism Is Idiotism.'' At other times, when the censors were more aroused and energetic, he found many ways to say things that conspiratorially sensitized Poles had little trouble understanding.
        For instance, when the Polish Government mounted a full-scale anti-Semitic purge in 1968, Mr. Turowicz saw to it that his weekly published a number of articles by people who were being shunned elsewhere for their Jewish origins, and invited one such figure, the poet Antoni Slonimski, to be a contributing editor. Or later, in 1982, to mark the first anniversary of Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski's declaration of martial law, he devoted six of the publication's eight pages to a new translation of the Book of Job.
        Like all issues of the weekly during the Communist period, this one was limited to a press run of 50,000, but as always copies were widely circulated among networks of friends and neighbors, some of whom retyped and mimeographed articles for use in a burgeoning underground press.
        As for conflicts with the church, Mr. Turowicz was often upbraided for his commitment to church reform in the 1960's and 1970's by the strong and aristocratic Primate, Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski. In these conflicts he was often defended by Cardinal Wojtyla, the future Pope. Once Mr. Turowicz, having been summoned by Cardinal Wyszynski, fell asleep while being admonished.
        His relationship with the man who became Pope John Paul II began when he received an article about how materialistic temptations had corrupted the Catholic Church in France. It was written by Father Wojtyla, and Mr. Turowicz accepted it and ran it on the front page under a pseudonym, Andrzej Jawien, which the future Pope continued to use on his pieces in the publication.
        The two men met regularly, often discussing the ideas of Emmanuel Mounier, a French Catholic whose philosophy of ''personalism'' had argued for a third way, a way to spiritually invigorate people who had been depersonalized by either Marxist atheism or capitalistic materialism. The idea would later find expression in the Solidarity labor union movement in which Mr. Turowicz served as an adviser, and in several of the Pope's encyclicals.
        During the decade when Solidarity rose, was suppressed and then ultimately triumphed in 1989, the Pope and Mr. Turowicz maintained close contacts. But once a free and democratic Poland emerged, their differences widened.
        During a visit to Poland in 1991, the Pope turned down a request to see a group of liberal Catholic intellectuals that included his old friend. And in 1994 after the weekly published a debate that included various opinions on abortion, Mr. Turowicz, who described abortion as ''a lesser evil,'' was dismissed from the board of the John Paul II Foundation, which distributes research grants. But in 1994, Mr. Turowicz met with the Pope in the Vatican.
        Mr. Turowicz was born in Cracow on Dec. 10, 1912. He studied philosophy at the city's Jagiellonian University and married Anna Gasiorowska, the daughter of an aristocratic and influential family. He survived the war years on her family's estate, to which he invited Mr. Milosz after the poet's home in Warsaw was bombed. His wife and their three daughters and five grandchildren survive.
        In 1945 he joined the newly created church magazine as an assistant editor. Six years later he took over as editor and held that post until he died.
        ''Probably I am not a bad editor,'' he once said. When asked what it was that enabled him to endure all the pressures, he replied, ''I think it is because I am calm.''
      