
        IT has become one of the enduring rituals on Capitol Hill:
        A bill to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws is being debated on the floor of the Senate. Its advocates and their many allies on the editorial pages are in full cry, demanding change for the sake of a cleaner, better, more democratic politics. And the senior Senator from Kentucky, Mitch McConnell, is doing his best to block the bill.
        So it went last week: Cheerfully, with conviction, with no apologies, Mr. McConnell stood in the well of the Senate, hour after hour, swatting back arguments that the system is corrupt, that it breeds cynicism, that it shuts out the little guy for the moneyed special interests.
        ''I have sort of been the designated spear catcher on this issue,'' Mr. McConnell said, somewhat proudly, during a recent break in the debate, which is now focused on a proposed ban on soft money, the unlimited contributions that go to the political parties.
        Does he read what they say about him, all those editorial writers who cast him as the dark knight, the enemy of reform?
        ''I read them,'' he said. ''I find them exhilarating. The more they beat me up, the more I'm determined to try to prevail.''
        Mr. McConnell, a 57-year-old Republican from Kentucky who was first elected to the Senate in 1984, has been in this struggle for a very long time -- ''the point man on this issue for our side since the late 1980's,'' as he puts it, and intellectually engaged for longer than that. Not surprisingly, he presents himself as the defender of the First Amendment, not of corrupt big-money politics.
        He delights in upending the conventional wisdom. ''Everyone who runs against me thinks, 'This is the way I'm going to beat this guy,' '' he said, a small smile playing around his otherwise stern face. Mr. McConnell said his message to the voters was simple: ''This is all about whether the Government can determine who gets to speak, how much they get to speak and when they get to speak in this country.''
        He is scornful of past efforts at regulating contributions, arguing that the much-vaunted $1,000 limit on individual contributions ended up benefiting ''the well-off -- Steve Forbes -- or the well-known -- George W. Bush.''
        ''The biggest thing wrong with the current system is the last reform,'' he said.
        Such arguments drive his opponents around the bend. ''Every narrow, grubby thing that comes before Congress involving money and power is usually cloaked with something noble and majestic,'' said Charles Lewis, executive director of the Center for Public Integrity. ''He has found the First Amendment.''
        MANY critics note that Mr. McConnell has a more than constitutional interest in campaign finance laws: An avid fund-raiser and hard-ball political strategist, he is chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, and thus charged with protecting his party's majority next year. He argued yesterday on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' that Republicans needed soft money to level the playing field because so much of the political discussion in the press, academia and Hollywood was dominated by the left.
        Mr. McConnell flinches a little at the term ''career politician,'' noting that it has acquired a pejorative cast, but he has spent his life in electoral politics. The son of a employee relations manager for Du Pont, Mr. McConnell was born in Alabama and raised in Louisville, Ky.
        His childhood was marked by polio, which he contracted at age 2, and which kept him off his feet until he was 5. His interest in politics came early; he was elected student body president in high school and again at the University of Louisville.
        His biggest inspiration, he said, was Senator John Sherman Cooper of Kentucky, who is now dead; Mr. McConnell was an intern in his office in 1964, when he was supporting the Civil Rights Act in the face of vocal opposition at home. ''What I liked about Senator Cooper was his willingness to go against the flow,'' Mr. McConnell said.
        Mr. McConnell takes prickly offense at the prevailing wisdom that the Senate is not the institution it used to be. The current legislative struggle pits him against a fellow Republican, Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is seeking his party's Presidential nomination and has made cleaning up the campaign finance system a central part of his platform. Mr. McConnell and his allies verbally pummeled Mr. McCain last week for raising the notion that Congress has been corrupted by special-interest money.
        Mr. McConnell said afterward, ''For a colleague who's running for President to make a cornerstone of his campaign that this institution is corrupt, and then be called upon to prove it and have no evidence whatsoever, is pretty galling to those of us who work here every day.''
        Mr. McCain, who spent more than five years in a prisoner of war camp during the Vietnam War, countered later, ''I've faced a lot tougher things in my life than Mitch McConnell's temper tantrums.''
        Mr. McConnell, who has three grown daughters by a first marriage, is now married to Elaine L. Chao, a distinguished fellow at the Heritage Foundation and a former director of the Peace Corps. Asked how he spends his leisure time, Mr. McConnell said: ''I have a great wife. We enjoy each other's company.''
        He also fishes and reads. But politics is clearly his passion, and the political fray his favorite place to be. ''I'm proud of my enemies,'' he said. ''If I had to be disliked by an organization, I can't think of a better one to be disliked by than Common Cause.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      