
        James E. Williams, who as a patrol-boat commander in the Vietnam War won the Medal of Honor and became one of the most highly decorated sailors in Navy history, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Florence, S.C. He was 68.
        Mr. Williams, who lived in Palm Coast, Fla., suffered a heart attack while visiting family members, his wife, Elaine, said.
        In the spring of 1966, Petty Officer Williams was a year away from retiring, having served 19 years as a Navy enlisted man. But he volunteered for combat in Vietnam.
        ''He had experience in small boats, and he knew he could lead young  Americans in combat,'' recalled Rear Adm. Morton Toole, retired, who commanded the patrol-boat division in which Petty Officer Williams served.
        Overseeing patrols in the Mekong Delta from April 1966 to April 1967, Petty Officer Williams won the Medal of Honor, the Navy Cross, two Silver Stars and the Legion of Merit, three Bronze Stars and the Navy Commendation Medal. He also received three Purple Hearts and was twice awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for rescue operations under fire.
        One of Petty Officer Williams's gunners, Rubin Binder, recalled being ''19 years old and scared to death,'' only to be steadied by the veteran boatswain's mate.
        ''He was like a rock,'' Mr. Binder said. ''When he said he was going to do something, he did it.''
        A petty officer would normally take charge of a single patrol boat. But Mr. Williams was given responsibility for two-boat patrols and the authority to call in helicopter and artillery assistance because, his former commanding officer, Fred McDavitt, said, ''Williams was superior from the very beginning.''
        James Elliott Williams, a native of Rock Hill, S.C., first saw combat in the Korean War. He was assigned to a destroyer but was detached to take  raiding parties into North Korea on small boats.
        In the Vietnam War, he received the Medal of Honor for what Mr. Binder remembers as ''an incredible firefight'' the night of Oct. 31, 1966.
        When Petty Officer Williams's two-boat patrol was attacked by two sampans, he ordered return fire that killed the crew of one enemy boat and sent the other fleeing to an inlet. In continuing the counterattack, he exposed himself to fire from snipers along the river bank and from a large concentration of enemy boats that joined the battle.
        When darkness arrived, he ordered his patrol boats' searchlights turned on to illuminate the enemy positions, although that made his own boats easier targets, and he moved close to shore to press the attack. The two American boats destroyed 65 enemy boats and inflicted many casualties in a battle that lasted three hours and left Petty Officer Williams with a wound near his right kidney.
        He was presented with the Medal of Honor by President Lyndon B. Johnson on May 14, 1968, at a Pentagon ceremony. A burly man, 5-foot-8  and 210 pounds, Mr. Williams had a physique that impressed the President, who asked, ''How did you get that big neck?''
        Mr. Williams was appointed United States Marshal for South Carolina in 1969 by President Richard M. Nixon and served more than a decade in the Marshals Service.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons, James Jr., of  Darlington, S.C.; Steven, of Dorchester, S.C., and Charles, of Charlotte, N.C.; two daughters, Debbie Clark of Palm Coast and Gail Patterson of Florence, and seven grandchildren.
        In a statement issued after Mr. Williams's death, President Clinton praised him for ''extraordinary bravery in combat.''
        Mr. Williams did not covet publicity. He turned down offers for a movie based on his Medal of Honor exploits, feeling that too much dramatic license would be taken. As he said in an interview with The Post and Courier newspaper of Charleston, S.C., in 1990: ''If you're not going to tell the truth about that battle, then it ain't worth telling.''
      