
        Stanley L. Dritz, the last of four brothers whose gadgets made their family name a household word for generations of people who sew, died Saturday at the White Plains Hospital. He was 88.
        Mr. Dritz had lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since his retirement more than 30 years ago.
        When he was president of John Dritz & Sons, the company catalogue listed hundreds of items, ranging from hooks, snaps, buttons, pins and needles of all shapes and sizes to a see-through plastic T-square ruler with slots that allowed the user to make precise markings before cutting fabric.
        Retailers like J. C. Penney and Sears, Roebuck mounted lavish displays of Dritz products in their stores. Among the most popular were the seam ripper, which made quick work of unwanted stitches and was much safer to use than a razor blade, and the electric scissors, an egg-shaped instrument that fit snugly in the palm of the hand. The scissors sold for $9.95 in 1953.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. Dritz told members of his family that to promote sales of a type of fastener he had first seen in Britain, he coined the word ''zipper.''
        ''The scientific name was hookless fastener, but he knew that term was awkward,'' said his wife, Dorothy. ''He said it made a zipping sound and that's how he made up the name.''
        Others have also claimed to have named the zipper. No less a figure than the industrialist B. F. Goodrich is credited with using it for the Zipper Boots he sold in 1923, according to ''Extraordinary Origins of Everyday Things'' by Charles Panati (Harper & Row, 1987).
        But it was Mr. Dritz who helped heighten the consumer appeal of the zipper by making it of plastic and rust-proof metals and by creating attractive packaging and displays.
        He promoted his business by introducing high school teachers of home economics to new techniques and products -- from Dritz.
        Stanley Leon Dritz was born on June 15, 1911, in New York City. After graduating from Syracuse University, he joined the business founded by his father, John Dritz. The venture focused on the production and sale of beaded handbags.
        Eventually, the family business included Mr. Dritz's brothers, Lawrence, Eugene and Arthur. Together, they brought an extensive array of products to home sewers.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Dritz served as president of the National Notion Association, an industry trade organization, which sponsored the semi-annual Notion and Novelty Market Show in New York City.
        Mr. Dritz was president of the family business in the 1950's and 60's. The company was sold when he retired. It is now owned by the Prym Dritz Corporation of Spartanburg, S.C., a division of Prym, of Stolberg, Germany.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Dritz is survived by a son, James Dritz of Armonk, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      