
        Ted Arison, who parlayed a single used cruise ship into Carnival Cruise Lines and other holdings, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 75 years old.
        Considered the godfather of the modern cruise industry, Mr. Arison gave up his American citizenship in 1990 and returned to Israel -- he was born in Palestine when it was under British control.
        With a net worth estimated at $5.6 billion by Forbes magazine, Mr. Arison was one of the richest men in the world, with extensive investments in the United States and Israel.
        He was chairman of Arison Holdings, the main shareholder of Bank Hapoalim, the biggest bank in Israel, and a major shareholder or investor in dozens of other companies including real estate, construction and suppliers of telephones and personal computers.
        But the beginning of Mr. Arison's financial empire was Carnival, which he built into the Carnival Corporation and took public in 1987. It now owns 45 ships, which sail under the Holland America, Cunard, Seabourn, Costa Cruises and Windstar brands. Several more ships are on order. The corporation had revenues of $2.5 billion last year, almost double that of its nearest competitor, and its ships account for about 40 percent of the cruise traffic.
        In their book ''Selling the Sea'' (John Wiley, 1997), Bob Dickinson and Andy Vladimir tell how Mr. Arison talked an old schoolmate from Israel into buying a former Canadian Liner, Empress of Canada, and into setting up a Carnival Cruise Lines subsidiary to own and operate it.
        But on its first cruise, in March 1972, the ship, renamed the Mardi Gras, ran aground off Miami Beach. It was refloated and its cabins were later converted from two-class trans-Atlantic service to one-class cruising, but ''the company lost millions of dollars as the Mardi Gras sailed on a sea of red ink.''
        But the refurbished ship began to primarily market the array of activities and entertainment available on board, rather than its destination. The strategy eventually caught on, so that by 1975 Carnival was making a profit. Mr. Arison soon bought two more ships, and earnings increased substantially.
        Over time he acquired the other cruise lines, most recently the esteemed but money-losing Cunard Line, with its flagship QE2, and today Carnival ships span every price range and comfort level from mass market to luxury.
        Mr. Arison is survived by his wife, Lin; a son, Micky, who is chairman of the Carnival Corporation; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Shari.
      