
        Ross Parmenter, a former music news editor of The New York Times and the author of several books on Mexico, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88.
        A member of the music staff of The Times from 1940 until his retirement in 1964, Mr. Parmenter wrote news, features, criticism and a column called ''The World of Music.''
        He had wide-ranging musical tastes; on one day he scolded the concert world for not planning a Handel bicentennial celebration, and on another he championed Marc Blitzstein's ''Regina'' as ''one of the best operas written by an American.''
        In 1953, Mr. Parmenter displayed both his musical knowledge and journalistic skill when he reported on one of the most dreaded occurrences in the world of music performance.
        It was during a Carnegie Hall performance of the Brahms Violin Concerto by the New York Philharmonic Symphony that the A string snapped on the violin of the soloist, Erica Morini. ''Miss Morini swapped instruments so quickly with John Corigliano, the first violinist, that the movement swept on almost as if nothing had happened,'' he wrote. ''In the meantime Mr. Corigliano and another member of the orchestra replaced the broken string, doing it so quickly that Miss Morini's instrument was ready for her just before the cadenza. In another quick switch with Mr. Corigliano, she got her violin back and played the long solo passage and the rest of the concerto on her own fiddle.''
        Mr. Parmenter also wrote 12 books, several of them dealing with Mexico, where he frequently traveled. They included ''Lawrence in Oaxaca'' (Peregrine Smith/Gibbs M. Smith, 1985).
        Charles Ross Parmenter was born on May 30, 1912, in Toronto. He graduated from Trinity College at the University of Toronto in 1933 and joined The Times the next year, covering shipping news.
        In 1940, capitalizing on his piano and voice studies, Mr. Parmenter joined the music department. In 1955 he was named music news editor.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      