
        Jack Bromwich, who won the Australian Open singles championship twice in a tennis career that was interrupted by World War II, died earlier this week in Geelong, Australia. The ambidextrous Bromwich, who won 17 major doubles titles and was a prolific representative of Australia in Davis Cup play, was 80.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said yesterday.
        Bromwich, who served in the Australian Army during the war, played in seven of eight Australian Open singles finals from 1937 to 1949, winning in 1939 and 1946. He and his customary doubles partner, Adrian Quist, captured the Australian Open doubles championship a record eight consecutive times beginning in 1938, and they were in their mid-30's when finally dethroned in 1951 by a more youthful duo of native Australians, Frank Sedgman and Ken McGregor. The tournament was not held from 1941-45 because of the war.
        For Australia's Davis Cup team, he captured 20 of 21 doubles matches and 19 of 30 singles matches. Bromwich and Quist, 9-1 together in Davis Cup doubles, formed the two-man team that wrestled the Cup away from the United States in 1939. In his final Davis Cup appearance in 1950, Bromwich partnered Sedgman to a Cup-deciding five-set victory over Ted Schroeder and Gardnar Mulloy of the United States at Forest Hills.
        Fair-haired, lantern-jawed and lanky, Bromwich's iconoclastic double-fisted playing style was in part a precursor to that of the modern-era champion Monica Seles. But unlike Seles, Bromwich used both hands on his forehand side only. His backhand was hit singlehandedly, with his left arm. More curious still was Bromwich's decision to serve right-handed despite being a natural lefty.
        In addition to confounding his opponents, Bromwich backed up his unorthodox formula with an aggressive attacking game and an opportunistic touch around the net. He volleyed with impunity and took pains to ambush servers by chipping his returns straight at their sneakers, a tactic that meshed well with the grass courts that were prevalent in his heyday.
        At Wimbledon, Bromwich distinguished himself by winning the men's doubles in 1948 and 1950 and the mixed doubles in 1947 and 1948. But his most disappointing major match occurred in the Wimbledon singles final against Bob Falkenburg in 1948, when Bromwich squandered three match points at 5-3 before losing by 7-5 in the fifth set.
        Three times a singles semifinalist at the United States Nationals, where he earned three men's doubles championships and a mixed doubles title, Bromwich ranked among the top 10 in the world five times, reaching a career-best No. 2 in 1939. He was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame along with Quist in 1984.
        Bromwich is survived by his wife, Zenda.
      