
        H. Stuart Hughes, a prolific historian, peace advocate and political gadfly who ran for the United States Senate against Edward M. Kennedy in 1962, died on Thursday in San Diego, where he lived as a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego. He was 83.
        Dr. Hughes wrote 12 books -- 6 on intellectual and cultural history with a focus on modern Europe, 2 general histories, 3 collections of essays and an autobiography. Six, including his memoir, ''Gentleman Rebel: The Memoirs of H. Stuart Hughes,'' remain in print.
        In the 1960's, as a history professor at Harvard University, Dr. Hughes spoke out for nuclear disarmament and against American military involvement in Vietnam. He was co-chairman with Dr. Benjamin Spock of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy, and later was chairman of the organization.
        In 1962, Dr. Hughes campaigned for the Senate as an independent, calling for nuclear disarmament and the abolition of war. He appealed to internationalists, whereas his opponent, Mr. Kennedy, focused on domestic concerns, like education and civil rights.
        In 1966, the Federal Bureau of Investigation asked the State Department to have its embassies monitor Dr. Hughes' activities while he was in Europe on a sabbatical. His case helped bring that practice to public attention and prompted the department to stop it.
        He was a native of New York and a grandson of the former Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes. Dr. Hughes, whose first name was Henry, graduated summa cum laude from Amherst College in 1937 and received a Ph.D. in history from Harvard in 1940. He also studied at the universities of Heidelberg and Munich.
        In World War II, Dr. Hughes served in the Army and was discharged in 1946 as a lieutenant colonel in the Office of Strategic Services. After two years as chief of research for Europe at the State Department, he returned to Harvard to teach.
        Dr. Hughes was Gurney professor of history and political science until 1975, when he joined the San Diego faculty. He assumed emeritus status in 1986.
        He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Prof. Judith Markham Hughes; their son, David M., of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter and son from a previous marriage, Sandra L. Hughes of Chevy Chase, Md., and Kennneth S., of Arlington, Va., and five grandchildren. Dr. Hughes's previous marriage, to the former Suzanne Rufenacht, ended in divorce.
      