
        Max Patkin, who made more consecutive appearances on the diamond than Cal Ripken and was thrown out of more games than Earl Weaver in half a century of slapstick as the Clown Prince of Baseball, died Saturday at a hospital in Paoli, Pa. Patkin, who lived in Exton, Pa., was 79.
        The cause was an aneurysm in the aorta, his family said.
        Cavorting in a baggy uniform, a question mark sewn on the back of his jersey, his cap tilted sideways, his toothless face capable of contortions rivaling a knuckleball's, Patkin was a major attraction at minor league ball parks on countless summer afternoons. And he was a comedy accomplice of baseball's master showman, Bill Veeck, during coaching stints for him with the Indians, the Browns and the White Sox.
        Patkin made more than 4,000 appearances, by his estimate, without missing a single scheduled pratfall. He crawled through Yogi Berra's legs, kissed Frank Howard to inspire a home run, played himself in the movie ''Bull Durham'' and was a goofy baseball fixture long before the Phillie Phanatic and the Chicken.
        His routine included an adventure starting out in the batter's box. First, he would dodge a brushback pitch. Then he would take a fastball over the heart of the plate and push the catcher over. Finally, he would connect on a lob, run to third base, be tagged out and engage in an epic argument that saw him tossed out of the park and sent off to his next stop on America's baseball map.
        ''It was a corny act,'' Patkin acknowledged, ''but the fans liked it.''
        A native of Philadelphia, Patkin became captivated with baseball at age 8 when he saw Jimmie Foxx play at Shibe Park with the Athletics. ''I didn't want to be a clown,'' he once said. ''I wanted to be a major league ballplayer. I'd sit at dinner with my baseball hat on. I never took it off until I went to bed, then I'd put it under my pillow with my glove.''
        Patkin pitched in the White Sox minor league system, then found his niche while with a Navy team in Hawaii during World War II. After seeing Joe DiMaggio of the Army Air Forces send one of his pitches out of sight, Patkin, on a whim, followed DiMaggio around the bases, mimicking his trot. A career in comedy was born.
        He appeared before big crowds in the majors, but there was also the time when he performed before a crowd of four, two of the spectators being the parents of one of the starting pitchers. That was in Great Falls, Mont., the night of July 20, 1969, when the rest of America was watching Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin walk on the moon.
        Patkin had a host of routines, carrying a miniature glove. He would imitate the first baseman's warm-up ritual, show the third-base coach how to give signs while dancing to ''Rock Around the Clock'' and -- in his signature flourish -- take long drinks of water and spew a geyser. He was actually the second Clown Prince of Baseball, taking the sobriquet that Al Schacht, a former pitcher and coach for the Washington Senators, had used in his pantomime routines.
        Patkin's last performance was at Glens Falls, N.Y., in 1993. The following year, his brother, Edward, his pal on the road, died. Patkin was hospitalized after that for depression, then was back in the public eye when The National Enquirer wrote an article on his travails after baseball. That brought 5,000 letters from well-wishers.
        Patkin is survived by a daughter, Joy Tietsworth, of Exton, and a sister, Ruth Cohen, of Pompano Beach, Fla.
        In 1994, Patkin wrote an autobiography, ''The Clown Prince of Baseball'' (W.R.S. Publishing), collaborating with Stan Hochman, a Philadelphia sportswriter. But he took that as seriously as his other baseball escapades.
        Last spring, when a panhandler appeared in court for snatching $35 from Patkin while he had been videotaping a television spot in Philadelphia, Patkin asked the judge to grant the man leniency and presented the robber with a copy of his autobiography.
        ''I thought that ought to be the sentence,'' Patkin said. ''To read my book.''
      