
        Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a visionary Texas real estate developer and civic leader whose 30 commercial buildings form much of the Houston skyline, died on Monday after a six-month battle with lung cancer. He was 70.
        Casting out on his own after a stint as salesman for his family's Magnolia Paper Company, Mr. Schnitzer, still in his 20's, began a career that over almost five decades produced such Houston landmarks as Greenway Plaza, the 71-story Wells Fargo Bank Plaza, the 50-story Enron building, the Mcorp Plaza and Citicorp Center.
        Another monument was the Houston Summit, a sports arena now known as the Compaq Center that, as a public-private joint venture, served as a model widely copied elsewhere.
        Some of his projects, particularly the 127-acre Greenway Plaza, were also among the nation's first large-scale, planned urban developments to emphasize greenbelts and extensive landscaping.
        A third-generation Houstonian who attended the University of Texas and the University of Houston, Mr. Schnitzer started in 1967 to assemble the land for the Greenway Plaza project by negotiating separate purchases of 300 homes for an average price of $45,000 and five years of rent-free occupancy. Few homeowners held out in those negotiations, which his sons said he regarded as one of his proudest achievements.
        By the early 1980's, the complex had a 400-room hotel, an underground shopping mall, the Summit home of professional sports teams and a workday population exceeding 12,000 spread through 10 office towers. He won a political fight to have the city build the arena, which opened in 1975, at Greenway Plaza instead of downtown.
        In the arena's early years, Mr. Schnitzer was co-owner and managing partner of the Houston Rockets basketball team and the Aeros hockey team, both Summit tenants.
        ''He could see things others miss,'' said Don Jordan, chairman of Reliant Energy. ''He really changed the skyline in this city.''
        Among other things, Mr. Schnitzer was a founding director of Houston Proud, which was created to spur a rebound from the oil price collapse in the 1980's; founding chairman of the Houston Economic Development Council, and director of the Greater Houston Partnership and the Greater Houston Convention and Visitors Bureau.
        His reputation as a civic leader and a philanthropist survived charges that he and two other local businessmen committed fraud involving an ailing savings and loan in Pasadena, Tex., an industry that suffered acutely in Texas when the price of a barrel of oil plunged to single digits. A Federal jury convicted the men, but the judge, in a rare intervention, acquitted them and was upheld on appeal. The land deal central to the case, it was ruled, had been a substantive transaction and not the ''cash for trash'' exchange that prosecutors maintained.
        Bob Lanier, a former mayor of Houston, said Mr. Schnitzer ''was scapegoated'' by the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Federal agency responsible for selling distressed savings and loan assets. ''It was a business transaction that backfired because the value of the property went down,'' Mr. Lanier said.
        In his mid-60's, a vacation in Mexico inspired Mr. Schnitzer to create and develop a master-planned resort in Los Cabos, near the tip of Baja California, raising his sights from a handful of units to a $200 million luxury community called Villas del Mar overlooking the Sea of Cortez that is to be completed in 2005.
        Mr. Schnitzer is survived by his second wife, Quinlan Quiros Schnitzer of Houston; two sons, Kenneth L. Jr. of Dallas and Douglas W. of Houston; four grandchildren, and three stepchildren. His first marriage, to the former Joan Weingarten, ended in divorce.
        Correction:  November 12, 1999, Friday  An obituary on Nov. 3 about Kenneth L. Schnitzer, a Houston real estate developer, omitted a reference to two former wives, who survive him. They are Pam Duke and Kathryn Schnitzer Freeman.
        A picture caption about some of Mr. Schnitzer's projects misidentified the buildings. Starting from the second to the left, they were the three buildings of the Allen Center and the Enron building; the Greenway Plaza was not shown.
      