
        Louis Wilson Menk, a railroad entrepreneur who wove three medium-size companies into the much larger Burlington Northern, then went to the rescue of a faltering industrial giant, International Harvester, died Tuesday at his home in Carefree, Ariz., a suburb of Phoenix. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Born in Englewood, Colo., Mr. Menk was the son of a trainman. He said he could never remember a time in his youth when he ever wanted to be anything but a railroadman, too.
        But first, to help his family financially during the Great Depression, he delivered The Denver Post, cut lawns, pumped gasoline and caddied on a golf course. He also became a champion golfer at Denver High School.
        After finishing high school in 1936, he studied at Denver University for two years, carrying a full schedule of courses while learning Morse code on the side as a messenger for the Union Pacific Railroad.
        Within a year his skill as a telegrapher took him to a dispatcher's job with the St. Louis-San Francisco Railway.
        His work as a dispatcher earned him a promotion to assistant trainmaster two years later.
        By 1950 he was a division superintendent at Fort Smith, Ark., and in 1953 he graduated from an advanced management program offered by Harvard University.
        Mr. Menk, a lean, angular figure standing 6 feet 5 1/2 inches tall, continued his rapid rise at the St. Louis-San Francisco Railroad. He became president in 1962 and added the title of chairman in 1964.
        The following year the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad drew him away to take over as president of the Burlington Lines.
        In the years after that he played a key role as the industry reinvented itself by shifting the emphasis from passenger transportation to hauling freight.
        He led the merger of the Great Northern, Northern Pacific and Burlington railroads into Burlington Northern, of which he served as president, chairman and chief executive. He retired in 1981 as chairman of the board.
        Burlington Northern later merged with the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad to form the present Burlington Northern Santa Fe, one of North America's largest railroad networks. It stretches 34,000 route miles from the Pacific Northwest and Southern California to the Midwest and employs nearly 50,000 people.
        Its headquarters are on Lou Menk Drive in Fort Worth.
        In 1982, International Harvester, a big maker of trucks and farm equipment, was on the brink of bankruptcy and bankers and creditors had lost faith in the company's management. Mr. Menk was asked to take over the company.
        In 20 months, he led a reorganization, oversaw cutbacks and installed a new management team. He served as chairman and chief executive of the company, now known as Navistar International Corporation, and returned to Carefree in 1983 for his second retirement.
        Mr. Menk is survived by his wife of 15 years, Mary Louise White Menk; a son, David of Canon City, Colo.; a daughter, Barbara Menk of Cancun, Mexico; two stepdaughters, Patti Townsend of Billings, Mont., and Peggy Irwin of Seattle; two brothers, Donald of Boulder, Colo., and Robert of Denver; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Barbara Swan Menk, died in 1983.
      