
        Ian Bannen, who scored a film triumph late in his career as a charming con man in the 1998 hit comedy ''Waking Ned Devine,'' died yesterday in a car crash in his native Scotland. He was 71.
        The accident occurred near Loch Ness while Mr. Bannen was taking a short break from his latest role in a film provisionally entitled ''Strictly Sinatra,'' said his agent, Jean Diamond.
        Mr. Bannen's body was found in an overturned automobile near Loch Ness, said a police spokesman. His wife, Marilyn, who was driving the car, was flown by air ambulance to a nearby hospital. Her injuries were not immediately known, the police added.
        In the whimsical ''Ned Devine,'' the comic capstone of Mr. Bannen's long career in English and Irish theater, in films and onstage on both sides of the Atlantic and on television, Mr. Bannen and David Kelly portrayed the aging Irishmen who attempt to con the tiny village of Tulaigh Mohr (or Tully More) into claiming a lottery jackpot for themselves after the actual winner, Ned Devine, perishes from shock.
        Mr. Bannen's film career, which stretched across more than 40 years, included roles in ''Braveheart'' (1995), ''Hope and Glory'' (1987),  ''Gorky Park'' (1983), ''Gandhi'' (1982), ''Eye of the Needle'' (1981) and ''The Flight of the Phoenix'' (1966), in which his performance as one of the men stranded in the Sahara beside their downed plane earned him an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actor.
        As an actor, he ranged from roles in plays by Shakespeare and O'Neill to the leprous Earl of Bruce in Mel Gibson's Academy Award-winning  ''Braveheart'' and a foxy grandpa in John Boorman's ''Hope and Glory.'' In the early 1960's, Mr. Bannen was a member of the Royal Shakespeare Company during its initial season in Stratford-on-Avon. He appeared on the London stage in 1958 in O'Neill's ''Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey into Night'' and in an acclaimed 1983 revival of 'A Moon for the Misbegotten.''
        His television credits included ''Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'' and ''The Politician's Wife.''
        Mr. Bannen, who was born in Airdrie, Scotland, on June 29, 1928, was the only son of a lawyer. He served as a corporal in the Army before making his stage debut in 1947 in Dublin in ''Armlet of Jade.''
        He is survived by his wife.
      