
        Dr. Johannes van Paradijs, whose observations of the most powerful explosions in the cosmos led to an understanding of their nature, died Tuesday in Amsterdam. He was 53.
        The cause was cancer, said Dr. Edward van den Heuvel, a colleague and friend.
        An unusual scientist in an age of specialization, Dr. van Paradijs, who held professorships at the University of Amsterdam and the University of Alabama in Huntsville, published more than 300 papers that included observational and theoretical astronomy.
        But what may stand as his greatest accomplishment occurred two years ago, when he and two of his students discovered an afterglow, a sort of dying ember, of a huge cosmic explosion called a gamma ray burst, which is normally visible only to detectors on satellites.
        In those observations, Dr. van Paradijs and the students discovered that the afterglow was visible to telescopes on the ground. The discovery let astronomers determine the distance to gamma ray bursts, showing that they were going off billions of light-years away and not nearby, as some scientists believed.
        The intensity of the flash as seen from such a great distance has led scientists to believe that gamma ray bursts are the most powerful explosions since the Big Bang, in which the universe is believed to have been created.
        ''That opened the eyes of many people around the world,'' said Dr.  van den Heuvel, director of the Astronomical Institute at the University of Amsterdam.
        Dr. van Paradijs, known as Jan to his friends and colleagues, was born in Haarlem, the Netherlands, on June 9, 1946, and received his Ph.D. from the University of Amsterdam in 1976. He developed an early interest in the milder explosions called X-ray bursts, and in 1983 he received the Pastor Schmeits Prize, an award given to young Dutch scientists, for his work on the theory of those bursts.
        After two years of postdoctoral work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. van Paradijs returned to the University of Amsterdam, and in 1993 he began spending about half of each year in Huntsville.
        The chase for the afterglow came after an Italian-Dutch satellite named BeppoSax detected a gamma ray burst on Feb. 28, 1997, said Dr. Walter Lewin, an astrophysicist at M.I.T. and a longtime colleague of Dr. van Paradijs.
        Many people argued that Dr. van Paradijs was lucky that night, Dr. Lewin said. But in fact, he added, the discovery came about through a combination of preparation, extraordinary nimbleness and a dash of chance.
        That day, Dr. van Paradijs received a tip that BeppoSax had detected a burst, and after a flurry of phone calls, he was given its approximate position in the sky by the astronomers operating the satellite. When he discussed the information with two of his students in Amsterdam, Paul Groot and Titus Galama, Mr. Groot reminded Dr. van Paradijs that he had scheduled observing time that night, for another purpose, on a large, remotely operated telescope in the Canary Islands.
        ''Jan had completely forgot about that,'' Dr. Lewin said.
        The team turned the telescope to the spot in the sky indicated by BeppoSax and discovered the afterglow.
        For the discovery, Dr. van Paradijs received the Bruno Rossi Prize from the American Astronomical Society last year.
        Dr. van Paradijs is survived by his wife, Dr. Chryssa Kouveliotou, who is a gamma ray astronomer at the University of Alabama; by two children from a previous marriage, Deirdre van Bunnik-van Paradijs and Oskar van Paradijs, and by three grandchildren.
        In recent years, Dutch astronomers have made a disproportionate number of discoveries about gamma ray bursts. But the explanation for that is simple, Dr. van den Heuvel said.
        ''It was really Jan van Paradijs's vision,'' Dr. van den Heuvel said. ''The fact that the gamma ray burst program is so strong is thanks to him.''
      