
        John W. Evans, an astrophysicist who was the first director of the National Solar Observatory in Sunspot, N.M., and his wife, Betty, died on Sunday at their home in a suburb of Santa Fe, N.M., in what the local police described as an apparent murder-suicide. Dr. Evans was 90 and his wife was 89.
        Dr. Evans used a revolver to kill his wife and then himself, leaving a note saying they did not wish to become a burden on their children, said Nancy Evans, their daughter.
        ''The note also said they wanted to leave while they were gloriously happy,'' Ms. Evans said.
        In 1952, after a distinguished academic career, Dr. Evans was appointed the founding director of the Sunspot observatory, which was then known as the Air Force's Sacramento Peak Observatory.
        It cost about $100 million to build, and it remains the only nationally supported solar observatory in the United States. The observatory is now financed chiefly by the National Science Foundation.
        Dr. Evans retired in 1974 but continued to work at the observatory, designing, building, testing and operating new instruments to study the Sun.
        John Wainwright Evans was born in New York City on May 14, 1909. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Swarthmore College in 1932 and a master's degree and a doctorate in astronomy from Harvard in 1938.
        He taught astronomy at Mills College in Oakland, Calif., at the University of Minnesota and at the University of Rochester before taking the post in New Mexico.
        Besides their daughter Nancy, of Santa Fe, Dr. and Mrs. Evans are survived by another daughter, Jeanne Regentin of Harbor Springs, Mich., and a son, Wayne, of San Carlos, Mexico.
        Dr. Evans chose the name Sunspot for the community where the observatory was established.
        ''He asked everyone to make suggestions and said the name would be determined by a vote,'' said a former colleague, George Simon. ''But he preferred Sunspot and we always thought the election was rigged.''
      