
        Malcolm Marshall, who despite his small stature became one of cricket's greatest fast bowlers, died Thursday at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in his hometown, Bridgetown, Barbados. He was 41.
        The cause was given as colon cancer. He had received the diagnosis in May during cricket's most important tournament, the World Cup in England. At the time, he was coaching the West Indies team, with whom he had starred from 1976 to 1991.
        At 5 feet 10 inches, Marshall was much shorter than the prototypical fast bowler, a position most Americans would liken to that of a fastball pitcher in baseball. A bowler, however, takes a running start before bouncing the ball at the batsman in order to intimidate him or force a weak swing. Marshall, with his distinctive whippy action, was known for both his extraordinary pace and wicked bounce.
        Marshall, born on April 18, 1958, became the sixth most prolific Test bowler in the sport, getting 376 wickets in 81 Tests, the formal matches between national teams. With other greats like Andy Roberts, Joel Garner, Michael Holding and Colin Croft, Marshall helped make the West Indies team a dominating force in the sport and a great source of pride to Caribbean residents and those of Caribbean heritage in Britain.
        He was the national team's career leader until Courtney Walsh surpassed him a year ago. Marshall also claimed 826 wickets -- or outs -- while playing county cricket for Hampshire in England. He appeared in his last Test in 1991, against England, and he retired in 1993.
        Marshall is also remembered for the remarkable moment in 1984 when he batted with one only hand; his left was in a cast because he had broken his thumb that morning. Yet he managed to allow Larry Gomes, a teammate, to reach the century in runs, a milestone in the sport.
        He played English county cricket for Hampshire, for whom he was the leading wicket-taker in England with 134 in the 1982 season and topped the national averages in 1986 and 1988. He also played in South Africa for Natal.
        Marshall is survived by his wife, Connie Earle, his companion of 13 years whom he married 40 days earlier, and their son, Mali.
      