
        Demetrio B. Lakas, president of Panama from 1972 to 1978 during the government of Brig. Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Panama City. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Lakas was an engineer who was popular among businessmen. During his term, General Torrijos, the leader of the National Guard, governed under a Constitution that gave him extraordinary power over the government and army.
        ''Lakas was in many respects the man who kept the wheels of government turning in Panama on a day-to-day basis,'' and ''not the figurehead executive that some observers assumed,'' a former United States ambassador to Panama, William J. Jorden, wrote in 1984 in a book, ''Panama Odyssey.'' But, he wrote, ''The central authority, the final decision-making power, belonged to Torrijos.''
        As president, Mr. Lakas had a role in contacts between Panama and the United States that led to two treaties between the two nations under which Panama will gain control over the Panama Canal at the end of this year.
        In 1969, General Torrijos named Mr. Lakas, a close friend, president of the provisional government council. Mr. Lakas held that post until 1972, when he was elected president by the 505-member Assembly of Community Representatives. He was succeeded by Aristides Royo.
        When Mr. Lakas was president, the government controlled the news media strictly and opposed dissent. It also had populist spending programs. An important moment during his term as provisional president occurred in 1970, when he had a 50-minute meeting with President Richard M. Nixon in Washington that set the stage for subsequent negotiations about the canal.
        As Mr. Jorden wrote in his book, when the two presidents' talk turned to Panama and the canal, ''Lakas told Nixon that emotions were heating up among his countrymen.''
        Negotiations had been tried in the mid-1960's, but they produced treaties that Panama did not accept.
        Mr. Nixon assured Mr. Lakas that something could be done about that.
        New talks began in 1971 in Washington, with the Panamanian ambassador to the United States leading the Panamanian negotiating team. In 1972, angry over the slow pace of the the talks, the ambassador said he was quitting and returned to Panama.
        But Mr. Lakas declined to accept his resignation and told him to resume negotiating.
        Two draft treaties were signed in September 1977 and were approved by a referendum in Panama in October 1977 and by the United States House of Representatives in 1977 and then by the United States Senate.
        The son of Greek immigrants, Mr. Lakas was born in Colon, Panama, the big Caribbean port, and went on to study at Texas Wesleyan College in Fort Worth and Texas Technical College in Lubbock.
        Survivors include his wife, Elizabeth; two sons, and a daughter.
      