
        Judge Charles G. Sweet, who helped supervise the trials of several of the nine people charged in the killing of the labor leader Joseph A. Yablonski and his wife and daughter 30 years ago, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Tampa, Fla. He was 81.
        Judge Sweet, who had been living for the last few years in a Tampa retirement community, was president judge on the Common Pleas Court in Washington County, Pa., from 1964 to 1984.
        From 1970 until 1974, he helped oversee long and complex criminal proceedings that drew national attention to Washington County and resulted in charges against nine people in the Yablonski slayings.
        The Yablonskis were shot to death in their Clarksville, Pa., home on New Year's Eve, 1969.
        Three weeks earlier, Mr. Yablonski had lost a bitter battle to unseat W. A. Boyle as president of the United Mine Workers. Mr. Yablonski believed the election had been rigged and may have been planning to help Federal investigators in an investigation of the election.
        Two of the nine people who were charged in the killings, Aubran W. Martin and Paul E. Gilly, were convicted of first-degree murder in trials over which Judge Sweet presided in Washington County. Silous Huddleston, Annette Gilly and Claude E. Veale confessed in the case, and Albert E. Pass and William J. Prater were found guilty of murder in Erie, Pa., where the trial had been moved.
        Judge Sweet later granted probation to Mr. Huddleston and Ms. Gilly and suspended their sentences because they had cooperated with the prosecution. He also dropped murder charges against William J. Turnblazer, a former United Mine Workers district president, who testified against Mr. Boyle.
        Witnesses at Mr. Boyle's 1974 trial in Media, Pa., and a retrial there in 1977 said Mr. Boyle had transferred $20,000 in union money to pay for the killing of Mr. Yablonski and any witnesses. Mr. Boyle died in 1984 while serving three consecutive life sentences.
        Richard A. Sprague, a Philadelphia prosecutor who was appointed special assistant to the United States attorney general and a special prosecutor to Washington County for the Yablonski murders, said Judge Sweet was involved in the early trials and confessions, which led to Mr. Boyle's conviction.
        ''It was the prosecutions in Washington County that built up a foundation for the entire case,'' said Mr. Sprague, who is now in private practice.
        Charles Greenleaf Sweet was born in Lewiston, Me., on Aug. 5, 1918, and grew up in Western Pennsylvania. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University and Harvard Law School.
        Mr. Sweet served in the Marine Corps in World War II, rising to the rank of colonel.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha; a son, David W., of Harrisburg; a daughter, Barbara Sweet of Washington, D.C.; a stepdaughter, Meredith Anthony-Light of Manhattan; a stepson, Troy G. Breese of Washington, Pa.; and three grandchildren.
      