
        Primo Nebiolo, a powerful and controversial figure in international sports who brought track and field out of the amateur ranks as president of its world governing body for almost two decades, died yesterday at a hospital in Rome. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Giorgio Reineri, a spokesman for the International Amateur Athletic Federation, which Nebiolo had led since 1981.
        Nebiolo was re-elected to a four-year term as I.A.A.F. president on Aug. 17. The federation's senior vice president, Lamine Diack of Senegal, has taken over as acting president. The I.A.A.F. council will meet Nov. 18-19 in Monte Carlo to consider arrangements for election of a successor.
        In the 1980's and 1990's, Nebiolo emerged as a major power in the sports world, along with Juan Antonio Samaranch, the International Olympic Committee president, and Joao Havelange, who headed FIFA, soccer's world governing body. As a member of the I.O.C., Nebiolo supported Samaranch in the face of criticism over the last year that the I.O.C. was elitist, autocratic and prone to favoritism.
        Perhaps that was because Nebiolo operated the I.A.A.F. in much the same fashion. He was a figure of great ego and ambition who expected to be treated regally and drew criticism as an intractable autocrat.
        ''He probably has an ego metabolism that takes more feeding than others,'' Dr. LeRoy Walker, then the United States Olympic Committee president, said in 1993. ''He is the president and wants to be treated that way. He likes being exalted beyond all others.''
        But Nebiolo deflected accusations that he wielded unbridled power. ''Hitler and Mussolini were dictators,'' he said. ''What am I a dictator of, athletics?''
        However he was viewed, there was no denying his instrumental role in helping to bring money and corporate sponsorship to track and field, known as ''athletics'' in international competition. When Nebiolo took office for another term in 1995, Joe Douglas, the manager of Carl Lewis, who became a millionaire in the lucrative world of track and field that Nebiolo presided over, praised him for ''making the sport professional and taking it out of the Dark Ages.''
        Nebiolo was president of an organization that retained the word ''amateur'' but instituted large prize fees, world-record bonuses, appearance fees and a host of world championship events. When Nebiolo became I.A.A.F. president, it had a budget of about $50,000. Now its budget is estimated at $40 million yearly, much of it generated by television and sponsorship fees.
        Primo Nebiolo was born on July 14, 1923, in Turin, Italy. He studied law and political science and was highly successful in the construction business before turning his business skills to the sports world.
        Nebiolo's start in sports came as a long jumper, but he often was self-deprecating about his athleticism. ''When I competed, we were lucky to have 50 spectators,'' he once said.
        His original base of power was the International University Sports Federation, which he took over in 1961 when it was a tiny organization and headed at his death. He built its World University Games into the world's second-biggest athletic competition, after the Summer Olympics.
        He had served as president of the Association of Summer Olympic Federations since 1983, was president of the Italian Athletics Federation from 1969 to 1989 and had been a member of the International Olympic Committee since 1992.
        Through his four decades in international sports, he weathered many controversial episodes.
        At the 1987 world championships in Rome, Giovanni Evangelisti of Italy won the bronze medal in the long jump, but the medal was taken away after investigations showed Italian officials rigged the measurement. Nebiolo was not implicated, but he quit his post as head of Italian track and field two years later.
        The refurbishment of the Olympic Stadium in Rome for the 1990 World Cup of soccer became entangled in a scandal involving cost overruns. Nebiolo was indicted in connection with that but was cleared of any improper involvement.
        He was a master of shrewd maneuvers.
        In 1989, when Nebiolo stripped the disgraced sprinter Ben Johnson of his records after a positive drug test at the 1988 Summer Olympics, many officials were surprised to learn that they had voided Johnson's achievements when they thought they had voted on adjourning for lunch.
        Nebiolo gained long-sought membership on the I.O.C. in 1992 when he threatened not to approve participation by South African runners at the Barcelona Olympics later that year if he wasn't selected.
        He waged a protracted legal battle with Butch Reynolds, the former 400-meter world record-holder. In 1990, the I.A.A.F. suspended Reynolds for a positive drug test. Reynolds, who claimed the test was flawed, sued and won a $27.3 million judgment against the I.A.A.F. in a United States court. But the I.A.A.F. refused to pay and eventually won a verdict that the United States courts had no jurisdiction in the case.
        At the 1993 world championships, Reynolds helped the United States break the world record for the 1,600-meter relay -- and Nebiolo presented the medals, kissing Reynolds on both cheeks.
        In 1995, Nebiolo touched off a furor in Sweden when he responded to a reporter's questioning him about his autocratic style by asking her about her sexual habits.
        This year, in a capstone to his career, Nebiolo, who is survived by his wife, Giovanna, helped his native city of Turin successfully bid to stage the 2006 Winter Olympics.
        Samaranch, whose I.O.C. was often engaged in power disputes with Nebiolo's track and field unit, paid tribute to Nebiolo yesterday as ''one of the greatest leading sportsmen of this century.''
        Nebiolo, who was unpaid for his athletic endeavors, was no apologist for his lofty reach.
        ''I believe that all big men in life want to get some position for themselves,'' he once said. ''If you don't have ambitions in a position where you don't receive money, why are you doing this? You do this surely for ambition.''
      