
        John G. Bonomi, a lawyer who investigated the role of organized crime in professional boxing and later successfully sought the disbarment of President Richard M. Nixon, died on Saturday at his home in Irvington, N.Y. He was 76.
        As an assistant district attorney in Manhattan from 1953 to 1960, Mr. Bonomi investigated dozens of figures connected to boxing, including Frankie Carbo, the so-called underworld commissioner of the sport, and James D. Norris, the multimillionaire president of the International Boxing Club.
        Mr. Bonomi's work led to Mr. Norris's stepping down as president of the boxing club and the organization's dissolution. Mr. Carbo was convicted on charges of managing boxers without a license; he was sentenced to three years in prison.
        The investigation also brought Mr. Bonomi, a former collegiate boxer, to the attention of Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee, who appointed him special counsel to the Subcommittee for Antitrust and Monopoly when it held hearings on professional boxing in 1960 and 1961.
        At the hearings, Jake La Motta, a former middleweight champion, admitted that in 1947 he threw a bout at Madison Square Garden with Billy Fox, then an undefeated light heavyweight.
        Mr. Bonomi worked in 1961 and 1962 as a special assistant attorney general in New York investigating racist and anti-Semitic literature distributed in the New York campaign for mayor.
        From 1963 to 1976, Mr. Bonomi was chief counsel for grievances for the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. In 1974, he started an investigation that resulted in 1976 in the disbarment of former President Nixon in New York on grounds related to the Watergate scandal and interfering with the legal defense of Daniel Ellsberg, who was on trial on charges connected with the publication of the Pentagon Papers.
        Mr. Nixon had voluntarily given up his license to practice law in California and before the Supreme Court of the United States and sought to do the same in New York. The New York bar, however, refused to allow  Mr. Nixon to give up his license voluntarily unless he acknowledged, as state law requires, that he could not successfully defend himself against the charges. In Mr. Nixon's case the charges included five counts of obstruction of ''the due administration of justice.''
        John Gurnee Bonomi, who was known as Jack, was born in in Brooklyn in 1923. He graduated from Columbia University and received a law degree from Cornell University and a master's degree in law from New York University. He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II.
        In 1977, Mr. Bonomi was a visiting scholar at Harvard Law School, specializing in professional conduct. From 1977 to 1996 he was in private practice, often defending lawyers and judges accused of misconduct.
        He was a member of the committee for grievances and admissions for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, a lecturer at Fordham University Law School, a columnist for The New York Law Journal, a trustee of the Village of Tarrytown, N.Y., a councilman and deputy supervisor of the town of Greenburgh, N.Y., and special council to the village of Irvington.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia; a daughter, Kathryn Bonomi of Tarrytown; a son, John G. Bonomi Jr. of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      