
        Richard Martin, who infused the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art with his deep knowledge of popular culture and art history, died yesterday at his apartment in New York. He was 52.
        The cause was melanoma, said Dr. Richard Slusarczyk, his companion.
        Mr. Martin had been the curator of the Met's costume collection since 1993. Since coming to the Met from the Fashion Institute of Technology, he presented such exhibitions as ''Cubism and Fashion,'' ''Gianni Versace,'' ''Christian Dior,'' ''American Ingenuity: Sportswear, 1930's-1970's,'' ''Orientalism: Visions of the East in Western Dress,'' ''Madame Gres'' and ''Swords Into Ploughshares: Military Dress and the Civilian Wardrobe.''
        Mr. Martin also organized an exhibition with the unlikely name of ''Wordrobe,'' a historical look at clothing adorned with words, from poems to political slogans. He described it as ''the reconciliation of textile and text.''
        An April 1998 exhibition, ''The Ceaseless Century: 300 Years of 18th-Century Costume,'' was called scintillating in a review by Grace Glueck in The New York Times. ''Too often,'' she wrote, ''historical costume shows are yawny dissertations on, well, the history of clothes.  Not this one. The clothes may be overwrought, but there's real panache to the presentation.''
        Some of Mr. Martin's exhibitions at the Met disappointed fashion critics because they weren't as showy as those he had been involved with at  the Fashion Institute of Technology or as flamboyant as those mounted by his predecessor at the Met, Diana Vreeland. But he was constrained because the space allotted to the Costume Institute had shrunk after Mrs. Vreeland's tenure and because  he was obliged to display everything behind glass rather than in the round. (That had been the custom at the fashion institute and at the Met under Mrs. Vreeland.) On the other hand, he brought a more scholarly approach to the subject of fashion.
        ''Richard's major contribution to costume studies was his ability to input vigor and academic interest from his art history background,'' said Harold Koda, his associate curator for almost 20 years. ''He saw fashion design as a manifestation that had richness of content that could be analyzed the way an art object was analyzed. He didn't see any kind of contradiction in that.  Costume exhibitions were transformed because of his work.''
        Mr. Martin also added to the Costume Institute's collection by accepting donations of clothing from designers and their clients and by shopping at auctions, flea markets, discount stores and Barneys New York's warehouse sales.
        In April he told The Times about  buying a John Galliano dress at Century 21, the discount store. ''Absolutely off the rack,'' he said. ''In fact, falling off the rack.'' The dress was later displayed in the Met show ''Our New Clothes: Acquisitions of the 1990's.''
        Mr. Martin's involvement with fashion exhibitions began in 1980 at  the Fashion Institute of Technology, where he worked with Mr. Koda and Laura Sinderbrand, the director of the school's Design Laboratory, now called the Museum at F.I.T. He had begun his career in New York in 1973, teaching art history at F.I.T., at the School of Visual Arts and at New York University. He served as the editor in chief of Arts Magazine before being appointed the executive director of the Shirley Goodman Resource Center, which is responsible for exhibitions and collections at the fashion institute.
        Among the landmark exhibitions the three of them mounted at F.I.T. were ''The East Village,'' ''Fashion and Surrealism,'' ''Undercover Story'' and ''Three Women: Madeleine Vionnet, Claire McCardell, Rei Kawakubo.'' Their work earned them a special award in 1987 from the Council of Fashion Designers of America. In 1996 while at the Met, Mr. Martin won another award from the council, ''for furthering fashion in art and culture.''
        '' 'East Village' was the best example of what Richard did so well,'' Ms. Sinderbrand said. ''There was a wall of painting, sculpture, music and the club scene. It was avant-garde and off the 57th Street-Madison Avenue scene. We showed work produced by young people in the East Village. To eat, they had to produce wearable art because they couldn't exist on fine art alone. Many produced clothing and jewelry that was outrageous and wonderful.''
        In a review of ''The East Village'' in Time magazine, Jay Cocks called it ''an eye-scalding, rambunctious and appropriately free-spirited tour of boho fashion, Manhattan style.''
        Most of the ideas for the exhibitions at both the fashion institute and  the Met originated with Mr. Martin, said Mr. Koda, who left the Met in 1997 to study landscape architecture. ''His interests were so vast,'' Mr. Koda said. ''We did five or six shows a year at F.I.T. and three a year at the Met, while most museums do only one. And he always had three or four years' worth of ideas. Some fashion people had difficulty with his language, because his language was the language of art, not fashion.''
        An example of his literary style can be gleaned from notes accompanying ''The Ceaseless Century: 300 Years of 18th-Century Costume,'' shown in 1998 at the Met. Mr. Martin observed, ''Display was far more important than the body it sought to cover and ameliorate.''
        In a 1995 article in The New York Times about cutting-edge fashion, Mr. Martin was quoted as saying that art and fashion often faced the same problem. ''It has become very difficult for anything to retain its shock value for very long,'' he said. ''A commercial art form like fashion almost immediately takes on those forms that have any degree of transgression or shock about them. ''
        Richard Harrison Martin was born on Dec. 4, 1946, at Bryn Mawr, Pa. He graduated from Swarthmore College in 1967 and received two master's degrees, both from Columbia University.
        He was a tireless lecturer and reviewer and held many academic positions, including those at the School of Visual Arts, New York University,  Columbia University, the Juilliard School and Parsons School of Design.
        Mr. Martin wrote more than 100 scholarly papers on subjects as varied as ''Art History and the Assimilation of Images by Contemporary Artists'' and ''Redress of the Nerds: The Assertion of Nerd Style in Men's Clothing and Imagery in the 1980's.''  He also wrote books on fashion and art, including ''Fashion and Surrealism'' and ''Charles James,'' and was a co-author of others.
        In addition to Dr. Slusarczyk, Mr. Martin is survived by his brother, Robert, of Montreal.
        Ms. Sinderbrand, who knew Mr. Martin for two decades, said he rarely talked about himself, but in a note to her after her retirement, he expressed ambivalence about giving up teaching to go to the Met: ''I realize that I want and probably need to be effective and expressive in some public way.''
      