
        G. McMurtrie Godley, a United States ambassador to Laos during the Vietnam War who played a central role in American efforts to defeat Communist forces there, died on Sunday in Fox Hospital in Oneonta, N.Y. He was 82.
        His position in Laos, from 1969 to 1973, hampered his diplomatic career. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee rejected his nomination to be an assistant secretary of state for Far East Asian affairs when he returned from Laos as American troops were pulling out of Southeast Asia.
        In an unusual statement, the committee chairman, J. W. Fulbright, said Mr. Godley had been too closely identified with a failed policy in Indochina to supervise American diplomatic efforts in Asia.
        President Richard M. Nixon instead appointed him to be ambassador to Lebanon. He had earlier been ambassador to Congo as part of a 35-year career in the foreign service.
        In Laos, Mr. Godley helped direct tens of thousands of Laotian and Thai guerrillas who were fighting the Communist Pathet Lao and North Vietnamese troops who used Laos as a base. Though Laos was officially neutral, the guerrillas were organized and financed by the Central Intelligence Agency.
        His service there was examined again in August 1992, when the Senate Select Committee on P.O.W.-M.I.A. Affairs reviewed reports that the United States had pulled out of Indochina without accounting for all American prisoners of war. The Defense Department and Senate investigators said as many as 135 American service personnel might have still been held when the United States pulled out.
        At the hearings, Mr. Godley and other former members of the Nixon administration insisted that they had all done their utmost to account for all P.O.W.'s, and that they believed that none remained in 1973.
        George McMurtrie Godley, known as Mac, was born in New York City on Aug. 23, 1917. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Yale and did graduate work at the University of Chicago before joining the Foreign Service in 1941. He served in France, Switzerland, Belgium, Cambodia and Congo before being named ambassador to Congo in 1964.
        Soon after his service in Lebanon ended in 1976, Mr. Godley received a diagnosis of throat cancer, and his voice box was removed. Despite that,  he went on to become a founder and president of the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., and was chairman emeritus when he died. He was also chairman of Hartwick College in Oneonta and Fox Hospital.
        He married Livia Paravicini, a former sergeant major in the Swiss Army Ambulance Corps, in 1946. They were divorced in 1963. In 1966 he married Elizabeth McCray Johnson. She survives, as do their children, George, of London, and Nicholas, of Madagascar.
        Also surviving are a brother, Frederick, of New Canaan, Conn., and a sister, Anne St. Goar of Brookline, Mass., and seven nieces and nephews.
      