
        David Schickele, a film director and musician, died on Oct. 31 at his home in San Francisco. He was 62.
        The cause was was brain cancer, said his brother, the composer and musical humorist Peter Schickele.
        Mr. Schickele was born in Ames, Iowa, in March 1937 and grew up in Fargo, N.D. He began his musical studies on the violin when he was 9, and later switched to viola, which became his principal instrument. He was an avid chamber music player, but he also shared his brother's interest in musical parody. Influenced by Spike Jones, they formed a band called Jerky Jems and His Balmy Brothers.
        David Schickele also helped create the P. D. Q. Bach routine that has been his brother's comedy vehicle since 1965. In 1953 the Schickele brothers and Ernest Lloyd, a friend who played the cello, made a home recording of a work they called the ''Sanka'' Cantata (a parody of Bach's ''Coffee'' Cantata). When they had a private acetate disc pressed, David Schickele drew a humorous cover that listed the composer as P. D. Q. Bach and the artists as Sir Osbronk Chapie, Bart., with Chamber Group. On the recording, which was released in 1996 as part of a boxed set, ''The Dreaded P. D. Q. Bach Collection,'' David Schickele provides the spoken historical commentary.
        After his graduation from Swarthmore College in 1958, David Schickele worked as a freelance violist in New York. At the same time, he sought to learn about film by working as an apprentice to several filmmakers. He briefly gave up both music and film to work in the Peace Corps -- from 1961 to 1963 he taught English at the University of Nigeria -- but when he returned he devoted himself mainly to film.
        Mr. Schickele's first feature film, ''Bushman,'' about an African man who moves to New York and must integrate his personal, tribal and racial identities into his new life, won the Best First Feature prize at the Chicago International Film Festival. He also made a documentary about the Peace Corps, ''Give Me a Riddle'' (1964). He completed his last film, ''Tuscarora,'' in 1992.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Schickele is survived by his wife, Gail; a son, Graham Spencer Nighttrain Schickele of San Francisco, and a daughter, Laura Bissonette of Kalamazoo, Mich.
      