
        Felix Galimir, a violinist who was one of the last links to the vital musical world of prewar Vienna, and a chamber music player who was revered by several generations of instrumentalists as a demanding and inspiring coach, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 and had continued to teach and advise young musicians until his health began to fail in recent weeks.
        It would be difficult to overstate Mr. Galimir's centrality in American chamber music life, but perhaps the best measure of his influence is that at virtually any chamber concert today, at least one musician on the stage is likely to have studied with, been coached by or performed in an ensemble with him. He was, with the pianist Rudolf Serkin, a guiding spirit at the Marlboro Festival in Vermont, where for 50 years young musicians and experienced colleagues have spent summers exploring the chamber literature.
        In addition to his work at Marlboro, a typical concert season for Mr. Galimir included teaching commitments at Juilliard School and the Mannes College of Music, both in New York, and the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia -- he was on the faculty of all three -- as well as at the New York String Orchestra seminar, a program for young musicians. He was also a coach at the chamber workshops that Isaac Stern conducts periodically at Carnegie Hall. He performed as a member of New York Philomusica and appeared regularly with Musicians From Marlboro, the touring ensembles that keep the festival's name and work alive between summer sessions.
        One reason Mr. Galimir was such a compelling and authoritative teacher is that in addition to his long experience as a quartet player -- he formed the Galimir String Quartet when he was still a teenager, in 1929, and kept it going with younger musicians until 1993 -- he knew and worked with many of this century's great composers. The circle in which Mr. Galimir traveled early in his career included the composers Arnold Schoenberg, Alban Berg and Anton Webern -- the founders of Serialism -- as well as Ernst Krenek, Alexander von Zemlinksy and other members of Schoenberg's Society for Contemporary Music.
        Berg coached the Galimir Quartet in his Lyric Suite in 1931 and inscribed the score of the 20-year old violinist, ''To Felix Galimir, outstanding quartet leader, excellent violinist, splendid musician, in remembrance.'' In 1936, when the Galimir Quartet recorded the Lyric Suite and Ravel's String Quartet, both composers were on hand to oversee the ensemble's rehearsals and recording sessions. The recordings were awarded the Grand Prix du Disques.
        For his entire life, Mr. Galimir was an eloquent and passionate champion of the composers he knew in his youth, and in discussing Schoenberg, Berg and Webern, he always emphasized the soulfulness he found in their works, rather than the austerity that many listeners hear in the music.
        ''Berg asked for enormous correctness in the performance of his music,'' Mr. Galimir told The New York Times in 1981. ''But the moment this was achieved, he asked for a very Romanticized treatment. Webern, you know, was also terribly Romantic -- as a person and when he conducted. Everything was almost oversentimentalized. It was entirely different from what we have been led to believe today. His music should be played very freely, very emotionally.''
        As a teacher, he sought to instill a love for new music in students, and he spoke wistfully of a time when that did not require such an effort.
        ''When I was a student, it was understood that young people played new music,'' he said in the 1981 interview. ''Now, unfortunately, this is no longer so. I have difficulty asking my students to play even the Bartok violin and piano sonatas. The students want the best sellers. I would like to see that any young group that plays Beethoven quartets plays something new also. Somebody who is at the end of his life and plays only Beethoven and Brahms, that's a different story. But a youngster, he should try everything.''
        Mr. Galimir was born in Vienna on May 12, 1910, and said in interviews that he felt like an outsider from an early age. Although his mother was an Austrian, his father was from Romania and was considered an enemy alien during World War I. The fact that the Galimirs were Sephardic Jews and spoke Ladino, a hybrid of medieval Spanish and Hebrew, raised similar suspicions because it sounded vaguely like Italian, and Austria and Italy were at war. ''I had to learn German very quickly,'' Mr. Galimir said later.
        He also learned the violin quickly. At 12, he entered the New Vienna Conservatory, where he studied the violin with Adolf Bak and chamber music with Simon Pullman. In the early 1930's, he continued his studies with Carl Flesch. But by then he had already made his public debut as a soloist in the Beethoven Violin Concerto and formed the Galimir String Quartet, in which his sisters were the other players.
        In 1936, Mr. Galimir was hired by the Vienna Philharmonic. In ''Felix Galimir in Conversation,'' a film by Ken Kobland that was produced for the Bard Festival this year, he remembered himself as an inexperienced musician at the time. ''I had never heard a Brahms symphony until I played one,'' he said. It was also an increasingly uncomfortable time for him as a young Jewish musician in a society where anti-Semitism was increasingly open. In the film, Mr. Galimir spoke about one performance at which, just as the lights went down, the principal clarinetist called out, in a voice audible throughout the theater, ''Galimir -- have you eaten your matzos today?''
        The following season he was barred from playing in a performance at a resort outside Vienna, and then dismissed from the orchestra. By then, his father and his older sister had left for Paris and were urging him to follow. Instead, he and two of his sisters accepted the invitation of Bronislaw Huberman to come to Palestine, where Huberman was starting the orchestra that became the Israel Philharmonic.
        In 1938, Mr. Galimir emigrated to New York. He immediately played a recital at Town Hall, formed a new version of the Galimir String Quartet and had some freelance performing jobs at WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times. He also played for several years with Arturo Toscanini's NBC Symphony.
        By the early 1950's, though, Mr. Galimir had become increasingly involved in chamber music, both with his own quartet, with the New York Philomusica ensemble and at Marlboro, to which he was invited by Serkin in 1952 after the death of one of the festival's founders, the violinist Adolf Busch. And after 1954, when he joined the faculty of the City College of New York, he devoted himself increasingly to teaching.
        His affiliation with the Juilliard School began in 1962, and he was appointed head of the chamber music department at the Curtis Institute in 1972. In 1976 he began teaching at the Mannes College of Music.
        Mr. Galimir was a short, genial man who held strong opinions and delivered them in a Viennese accent that underscored both their vehemence and the current of humor that sometimes ran through them. Expressing his distrust of politics mixed into music, for example, he remarked in ''Felix Galimir in Conversation'' that he had heard the Shostakovich 11th Symphony a couple of days before the interview. ''It was a disgrace,'' he said. ''Such noise. Stalin decides who writes good music. Who was Stalin?''
        Although he said music was both his profession and his hobby, he also enjoyed watching football, and he had a large collection of clocks. His wife, Suzanne, died last year; there are no immediate survivors.
        In his teaching Mr. Galimir was a master at balancing criticism and encouragement. He often presented insights in amusingly folksy way.
        ''I sometimes tell my students that vibrato is a string player's lipstick,'' he said in a 1996 interview. ''When you get dressed up, you use a little more. When you go on a trip to the mountains, a little less. Every piece has moments of repose. Beauty must have variety.''
        Correction:  November 20, 1999, Saturday  An obituary of the violinist Felix Galimir on Nov. 12 misstated Alban Berg's role in the Galimir String Quartet's 1936 recording of his Lyric Suite. While Berg coached the quartet in the work, he was not present at the recording session, having died in 1935.
      