
        Alberto Bolet, a cosmopolitan, Cuban-born orchestra conductor, died on Wednesday while visiting his daughter in Teaneck, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Long Beach, Calif.
        Mr. Bolet was an energetic champion of Cuban and other Latin American music. In an interview in 1956 in Havana, before Fidel Castro seized power and while Mr. Bolet was was musical director of the Havana Philharmonic and conductor of Cuba's first permanent chamber orchestra, he apologized for seeming to be boastful and spoke glowingly of many Cuban composers.
        They included Aurelio de la Vega, who settled later in California; Edgardo Martin, and the Spanish-born Julian Orbon, who settled later in New York.
        Mr. Bolet was born in Havana, learned to play the violin, and studied music at conservatories in Madrid and Paris from 1922 to 1926. He became the music director at theaters in those cities and in Havana. He also  formed the first radio symphony orchestra in Cuba in 1939 and gave 300 concerts over the air in three years.
        He was musical director and conductor of the Havana Philharmonic for most of the 1950's. During those years the orchestra was revived by Mr. Bolet and a few other strugglers after it had been on the verge of disbanding because of dissension and lack of money.
        Asked in 1956 what caused the tide to turn, Mr. Bolet said: ''Just plain persistency. Private politics were discarded by mutual consent as we realized the doom that was approaching. It was a choice of cooperating to fight for what we needed, or sink.''
        In 1959, with Mr. Castro newly in power, Mr. Bolet found out that he was to be arrested, his daughter, Adela Maria Bolet, recalled last week, adding that he ''wasn't really a political figure, but he was a cultural icon.''
        He fled to Britain, followed by his family, his daughter said, and later became the musical director and conductor of the Bilbao Symphony in Spain from 1963 to 1968, and music director of the Long Beach Symphony from 1968 to 1978, and of the symphony in Bakersfield, Calif., in the early 1970's.
        He was also musical director of the symphony in San Bernardino, Calif., from 1976 to 1981.
        Mr. Bolet's brother, the highly regarded Cuban-American pianist Jorge Bolet, died in 1990.
        In addition to his daughter, Alberto Bolet is survived by his wife of 49 years, Rosa Suavez; two sons, Alberto and Armando; 10 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      