
        Daniel Margolies, a lawyer with a long career in public service, including membership in the team of American prosecutors at the war-crimes trials in Nuremberg after World War II, died Nov. 6 at a hospital in Aurora, Colo., a suburb of Denver. He was 89.
        Partly because of the fluent German he learned while doing postgraduate research on medieval manuscripts in Germany in the early 1930's, Mr. Margolies was assigned to interrogate and help build a case against the 24 major Nazi leaders in preparation for the Nuremberg trials, which began in November 1945.
        Mr. Margolies's account of the trial, included in ''Eyewitnesses at Nuremberg'' by Hilary Gaskin (Arms and Armor Press, 1990), contains chilling excerpts of his questions and the banal responses they elicited.
        ''We would say,'' Mr. Margolies recalled, '' 'Well, here's a document that you issued, saying that all the inhabitants of such and such a town should be shot -- Is this your signature?' and 'Why did you do this?' And he would say, 'Well, somebody or other had destroyed a truck,' or something, 'and we had to maintain a certain amount of respect.' ''
        Mr. Margolies married Harriet Zetterberg in London in 1945, while they were both helping to prepare the indictments.
        She then joined Mr. Margolies as a member of the prosecution team in Nuremberg, but when Gen. George S. Patton Jr. decreed that there would be no room in the American Zone for the wives of his officers, Harriet Margolies dropped her married name so she could live with her husband in the hotel in Nuremberg where the prosecutors were housed.
        They were, according to ''The Nuremberg Trial'' by Ann Tusa and John Tusa (Atheneum, 1984), ''the only sinners with a marriage license.''
        Harriet Margolies died in 1986.
        Daniel Margolies was born in Cleveland, Ohio, on April 12, 1910. After graduating from Harvard in 1931, he traveled to Germany to study medieval manuscripts. He returned after a year, graduated from Harvard Law School in 1936, and then moved to Washington where he lived for most of the next 50 years.
        He began his career investigating unfair labor practices for a Senate subcommittee presided over by Senator Robert M. LaFollette Jr., the Wisconsin Republican. He then worked in the Office of Price Administration and the Office of Economic Warfare.
        One of the earliest draftees in World War II, Mr. Margolies worked for the Office of Strategic Services in London and in occupied Germany before becoming a prosecutor at Nuremberg.
        After the trials, Mr. Margolies joined the State Department and later the Foreign Service. He was the economics counsel in the United States Embassy in London from 1957 to 1960 and in Leopoldville, Congo, now known as Kinshasa, from 1960 to 1962.
        Returning to Washington in 1963, Mr. Margolies worked on Latin American affairs and then as foreign policy adviser to the President's Science Advisory Committee.
        Mr. Margolies is survived by two children, Mary Margolies DeForest of Denver and David Margolies of Oakland, Calif.
      