
        The way his widow tells it, Max Hunter realized early in his travels as a salesman in Missouri that the hill people of the Ozarks had songs, stories and expressions that were uniquely theirs. And so he decided to collect as many as he could before they vanished into time.
        Mr. Hunter, 78, died on Nov. 6 of emphysema at a hospital in his hometown, Springfield, Mo., but his work survives. Or rather, the traditional music and expressions of the Ozark people survive, thanks in part to Mr. Hunter, who became a renowned folklorist.
        Mr. Hunter sold tools and other goods and collected his lore mostly within a 150-mile radius of Springfield, his wife, Virginia, said. Some of the people he sold to and talked to were old, and the thought that they might take their tunes and tales to their graves made him sad.
        ''I began to know it was important,'' he said in an interview a few years ago. ''This was a way of life that people were losing, and it was never coming back.''
        So over the decades he wrote down the words and tape-recorded the songs. By some estimates he gathered more than 2,200 folk songs, 14 hours of jokes, 1,100 proverbs and no one knows how many fiddle tunes. Much of what he accumulated is on file at the Smithsonian Institution, the Library of Congress, the University of Missouri, Southwest Missouri State University, the University of Arkansas and at various libraries in Missouri.
        And what did Mr. Hunter like about the people he talked to on their porches or by the sides of dirt roads? ''It was a whole different style of living,'' Mrs. Hunter reminisced.  ''They were happy and content with what they had, and they didn't have a lot.''
        What they had was a colorful way of communicating. ''Deader than a mackerel'' and ''ugly as a mud fence'' and ''pretty as a speckled pup'' are among the sayings he wrote down.
        Some expressions would have found their way into everyday English without Mr. Hunter, and English might be just as well off without some of them. No matter; he was a collector, not an arbiter of taste.
        So he wrote down the one about ''people who wear clean shirts over dirty underwear'' or the man who ''grins like a jackass eating cockleburs.'' And he wrote down one for practical use: ''You're spreading it faster than I can shovel it.''
        And he captured Ozark superstitions, like what to do if a black cat crosses your path. (Take off your hat, spit in it and put it on backward.)
        But perhaps his greatest contribution was in recording traditional songs. ''You can't write a folk song,'' Mrs. Hunter said. ''At least, not a true folk song.'' Her husband recorded love songs and lullabies and the songs of outlaws.
        Mrs. Hunter tried to remember a funny one about a farmer who came home drunk and slept with the pigs, but the words refused to come back to her. (Fortunately a Web site offering the songs her husband recorded is to be opened soon by Southwest Missouri State.)
        A few years ago Mr. Hunter explained his interviewing style: ''You gotta come down on their level. If they use a little bit of rough language, you use a little bit of rough language. You just be yourself and don't try to put on some airs.''
        Nobody ever accused Mr. Hunter of putting on airs. To get people to cooperate, he would help them with the chores, loading hay, tending chickens, feeding calves.
        ''He even delivered stump water,'' Mrs. Hunter said cheerfully.
        Stump water?
        ''White lightning. We're talking about moonshine, the kind that would take the top of your head off.''
        Besides his wife, Mr. Hunter is survived by a son, David, of Springfield; three daughters, Jenny Sweet of Springfield, Linda Bangs of Jerico Springs, Mo., and Sue Davidson of Gainesville, Mo.; a sister, Pauline Sharpe of Marysville, Calif.; 12 grandchildren; and several great-grandchildren.
        Childhood neighbors and sweethearts, Max and Virginia Hunter were married on Christmas Day 1939. Mrs. Hunter said he was good company over the years. One of the few things she did not like about him was his smoking. ''I never did smoke because I always liked to smell like a lady,'' she said.
        Mrs. Hunter said her husband gave up smoking years ago, but too late for them to make it to their 60th wedding anniversary.
      