
        Robert C. Belloni, a former chief judge of the United States District Court for Oregon who upheld American Indian fishing rights in the Pacific Northwest, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 80 and formerly lived in Portland.
        Mr. Belloni was appointed to the federal court by President Lyndon B. Johnson and served from 1967 until 1995, when he retired. He was chief judge from 1971 to 1976. Earlier, he had practiced law and had served on a state trial court.
        Charles Wilkinson, the Moses Lasky professor of law at the University of Colorado Law School, said: ''The succession of Indian fishing-rights cases in the Pacific Northwest, which continues today, has been among the most important events in the region during the post-World War II era. Rulings like Judge Belloni's in Sohappy v. Smith in 1969 have made a historic statement affirming the rights that this country sometimes recognizes on behalf of dispossessed peoples.
        ''In that case, his ruling that Indian tribes are entitled to a fair share of the salmon harvest under treaties that their leaders signed with the United States in the 1850's was a watershed event in this movement,'' Professor Wilkinson said. ''For decades, the states had refused to recognize these special treaty rights.''
        The Sohappy case was brought by 14 members of the Yakima Indian tribe. In 1969 it was consolidated with another case, United States v. Oregon, that was brought by the federal government on behalf of the Yakima, Nez Perce, Umatilla and Warm Springs tribes, which live in the Columbia River basin.
        ''In 1974, in the decision in U.S. v. Washington, U.S. District Judge George Boldt refined Belloni's 1969 ruling and declared that Indian tribes were entitled to 50 percent of the salmon harvest as their fair share,'' Professor Wilkinson said. ''But Belloni's ruling really paved the way, and it was very unpopular among non-Indians and unpopular even among many of his peers. It was a very difficult, very courageous decision.''
        After the 1974 ruling, Judge Belloni adopted the 50 percent figure for the cases involved in the 1969 decision.
        He was born in Coos County, Ore., received a bachelor's degree in 1941 from the University of Oregon and was an Army officer in the Pacific in World War II. He received his law degree in 1951 from the University of Oregon.
        His marriage to Doris Adams ended in divorce. His wife, Faye Dement Belloni, died in 1994.
        Judge Belloni is survived by a daughter, Susan Gray; a son, Jim; a stepson, Dan Dement; two grandsons; two sisters, Dolores Furman and Phyllis Caughell; and a brother, Harold.
      