
        Col. John Paul Stapp, an Air Force medical researcher who rode a rocket-powered sled at a speed faster than a .45-caliber bullet in an experiment to test the limits of human endurance, died on Saturday at his home in Alamogordo, N.M. He was 89.
        Dr. Stapp was known as the ''fastest man on earth'' for his 1954 ride, though the speed has since been surpassed and was never accepted by auto racing officials as an official land speed record. The speed was impressive, at any rate. Dr. Stapp accelerated in 5 seconds from a standstill to 632 miles an hour. The sled then decelerated to a dead stop in 1.4 seconds, subjecting Dr. Stapp to pressures 40 times the pull of gravity.
        He became an immediate celebrity. The New York Herald Tribune called him ''a gentleman who can stop on a dime and give you 10 cents change.''
        He won what will perhaps be even more lasting fame in a test five years earlier, when he suffered injuries owing to a mistake by a Captain Murphy. The result: Murphy's Law.
        His 1954 experiment has been compared with being in an automobile crashing into a wall at 50 miles an hour with the shock of the impact lasting 18 times as long. The sudden stop was accomplished using bucket scoops underneath the sled, digging into a trough of water.
        How did it feel? ''It's like being assaulted in the rear by a fast freight train,'' Dr. Stapp said. What did he think about as he listened to the countdown? ''I said to myself, 'Paul, it's been a good life,' '' he said.
        As it turned out, he was blinded but recovered his sight in a couple of hours, ending up with two black eyes because his eyeballs had shot forward in their sockets.
        Before the ride he had worried he might become permanently blind. ''I practiced dressing and undressing with the lights out so if I was blinded I wouldn't be helpless,'' he said in a 1985 interview.
        The purpose of this and 28 other high-speed rides was to study the effects of bailing out of airplanes at supersonic speeds and find out ways to keep pilots safer.
        The experiments were just the most famous chapter in Dr. Stapp's lifelong mission of testing the limits of human tissue in order to make transportation safer. The results of his research helped in areas as diverse as improving seat belts in cars and developing the medical and psychological tests for choosing the first team of Mercury astronauts.
        He became an early advocate of seat belts and shoulder harnesses in cars and argued unsuccessfully that airlines should seat passengers backward so the entire back could absorb the shock of a sudden stop.
        Dr. Stapp's views were also sought on the question of whether traveling at the speed of light slowed aging, as Einstein had theorized. He thought not.
        Dr. Stapp, who was known for his razor-sharp wit, suffered an injury in the experiment that inspired Murphy's Law after a somewhat less rapid sled ride in 1949.
        An assistant, Capt. Edward A. Murphy Jr., had designed a harness to strap in the rider. The harness held 16 sensors to measure the acceleration, or G-force, on different body parts. There were exactly two ways each sensor could be installed. Captain Murphy did each one the wrong way.
        The result was that when Dr. Stapp staggered off the rocket sled with bloodshot eyes and bleeding sores, all the sensors registered zero. He had been strained in vain.
        A distraught Captain Murphy proclaimed the original version of the famous maxim: ''If there are two or more ways to do something and one of those results in a catastrophe, then someone will do it that way.''
        Dr. Stapp was born in Bahia, Brazil, the son of Baptist missionaries. When he was 13, his parents enrolled him in the San Marcos Baptist Academy in Texas. At Baylor University in Waco, Tex., he began majoring in English, but then he nursed a 2-year-old cousin with severe burns.
        ''It was the first time I had ever seen anyone die,'' Dr. Stapp said. ''I decided right then I wanted to be a doctor.''
        He graduated with a science degree but could not afford to go to medical school so he stayed at Baylor and earned a master's degree in zoology. He then earned a doctorate in biophysics at the University of Texas. At 29, he entered medical school at the University of Minnesota, where he earned a degree.
        In 1944, he joined the Air Force. He became fascinated with ''aviation medicine,'' which addressed the effects that ever-increasing speeds and heights were having on the bodies and minds of fliers. This led to his assignment in 1947 to Edwards Air Force Base in California, where be began working with a rocket-propelled sled on rails. He used a dummy for the first 32 trial runs before attempting his first ride. The next day he doubled his speed.
        He was eventually transferred to Holloman Air Force Base in New Mexico, where he got an even faster sled. Though he had begun to let other volunteers take many of the rides, he suffered broken ribs, hemorrhages in one eye, a concussion, an abdominal hernia, a fractured coccyx and a shattered wrist. Because of concerns about his health, the Air Force grounded him after his fastest ride, overriding protests that he be allowed to try for 1,000 m.p.h.
        Dr. Stapp served in medical advisory and staff positions with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics, among others. His many awards included the Medal of Technology, presented to him by President Bush in 1991. He was president of the American Rocket Society and wrote more than 50 technical articles.
        As chairman of the Stapp Foundation, he led the annual Stapp Car Crash Conference, which brought together automotive engineers, trauma surgeons and other experts to examine how people died in car crashes.
        He refused to marry until the rocket sled experiments ended. In 1958, he married Lillian Lanese, who had danced with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. She survives him, as does his brother, Wilford, of San Antonio.
        Dr. Stapp once said the only lasting effects of his daredevil experiments ''are all the lunches and dinners I have to go to now.''
      