
        Benjamin Schwartz, one of the first scholars to show that Mao Zedong developed his own brand of Communism beyond Soviet control and a professor emeritus of history and political science at Harvard University, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82.
        Although not as well known publicly as his mentor, John K. Fairbank, who helped build the field of Chinese studies in the United States through constant proselytizing, Dr. Schwartz in his books furnished several crucial ideas that still help form the foundation for American understanding of China.
        Among them were his research on Mao, showing how the young Mao had masterminded the Chinese revolution by turning to the poor peasants instead of following Marx's reliance on urban workers.
        Another insight was Dr. Schwartz's recognition that for 100 years the critical question for China has been ''wealth and power,'' or how to catch up with the West economically and militarily.
        In World War II, Dr. Schwartz was an officer in the cryptoanalysis branch of the Signal Corps, helping break Japanese codes.
        Although he was known as a modest man who did not seek personal titles or pursue consulting contracts like many other Harvard professors, during the height of the Vietnam war in 1969, when Harvard students occupied university offices and brought the school to a standstill, he was improbably selected to a special committee to defuse the crisis.
        ''Ben was like the man with his finger in the dike and held the university together at a time when it was not clear it would hold,'' said Marshal Goldman, associate director of the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard.
        Benjamin Isadore Schwartz was born on Dec. 21, 1916, in East Boston and grew up in a poor family that was further set back by the Depression and later moved to Dorchester, a working-class section of Boston.
        He graduated from Boston Latin, the city's premier high school for talented students, and was admitted to Harvard College in 1934 as a scholarship student, commuting daily from home. The experience of being poor, a day student and Jewish at Harvard in the 30's was difficult, friends said, and he found the other students and faculty snobby and elitist.
        When he graduated magna cum laude in 1938 with a major in romance languages and literature, he expected to become a high school teacher or rabbi, and received a master's from the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
        But the war intervened, and after the war, with his knowledge of Japanese, he returned to Harvard, where he encountered Professor Fairbank, always on the lookout for bright students to convert to the gospel of Chinese studies.
        Mr. Schwartz fell for the pitch, like many others. He soon earned another master's, this time in regional studies, and a Ph.D. in history and Far Eastern languages. Harvard appointed him an instructor in history and government in 1950.
        In 1951, his doctoral dissertation was published as a book, ''Chinese Communism and the Rise of Mao,'' by the Harvard University Press and immediately established him as a pioneer in the fledgling study of Chinese Communism.
        At a time when the United States was at war with the new government in China over Korea and there was a widespread belief that the Chinese Communists were merely an extension of Soviet power, Dr. Schwartz demonstrated that Mao had led the Communists to victory in China by defying Soviet plans and orders. Mao had discovered, after repeated failed uprisings in China's cities by other Communist leaders, that the real revolutionary force in China was the impoverished peasantry. Dr. Schwartz's book remains a key source today.
        His second book, ''In Search of Wealth and Power: Yen Fu and the West,'' was published by the Harvard University Press in 1964, adding to his stature as an authority on Chinese intellectual history.
        Drawing on an encyclopedic knowledge of classical and modern Chinese literature and philosophy, Dr. Schwartz showed that the overriding goal of the country's leaders from the late 19th century on has been to resume China's rightful place in the world by catching up with the West, or in Chinese terms by a search for wealth and power. Yen Fu was a member of the traditional  gentry of the late Qing dynasty who was the first to translate European works into Chinese, largely to seek out the secret of Western power.
        That goal remains paramount today, as the search by Beijing for economic and military modernization leads to clashes with the United States over issues like opening China's market to American investment or the theft of nuclear secrets.
        In his later years, Dr. Schwartz drifted further back into Chinese history. In 1985, he published ''The World of Thought in Ancient China.''
        He was appointed to an endowed chair, becoming the Leroy B. Williams Professor of History and Political Science in 1975. Dr. Schwartz continued to work in his office every day from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., where he was available to students. And he ate lunch without fail in the cafeteria of the Fairbank Research Center where anyone could talk with him.
        ''He was a product of the Depression, and he felt it was his job as a professor to be there for his students,'' said Merle Goldman, a professor of history at Boston University.
        Last year, the American Historical Association gave him its Award for Scholarly Distinction.
        Surviving are his wife, Bernice; a son, Jonathan, of West Hartford, Conn.; a daughter, Sara-Ann Erichson of Montclair, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
        One question his colleagues have is whether the tradition of lunch in the Fairbank cafeteria, always well attended by professors, students, and visiting Chinese scholars and officials, will continue. Dr. Merle Goldman, a professor of history at Boston University, said, ''We just don't know what it's going to be like without him.''
      