
        Dr. Daniel Nathans, a Nobel Prize-winning geneticist who pioneered the use of scalpels in analyzing DNA, a technique that helped create the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 71 and had taught at Johns Hopkins University for 37 years.
        The cause was leukemia, said his son Jeremy.
        Dr. Nathans was chairman of the department of microbiology at Johns Hopkins and was its interim president in 1995 and 1996.
        DNA is shaped like a double helix, and Dr. Nathans broke apart the long twisted strands of DNA molecules by using what is known as the restriction enzyme technique. Then he reconstructed the molecules in different combinations to help solve basic problems in biology.
        A scientist's greatest reward, Dr. Nathans said, ''is seeing your discovery lead to some practical application.''
        His research did, in spades.
        Dr. Nathans produced ''one of the most fundamental tools in modern genetics research,'' said Dr. Victor McKusick, a leading geneticist and the former chairman of medicine at Johns Hopkins.
        Dr. Nathan's research also provided the groundwork for the worldwide effort to map the human genome. ''Indeed, the human genome project would be impossible without restriction enzymes, and the technique permitted the first cloning of human genes,'' Dr. McKusick said.
        And the gene-splicing techniques used to produce drugs like insulin, growth hormone and interferon came from the research that Dr. Nathans and others did.
        Restriction enzymes cut what is being tested in precisely defined and predictable places. By using a variety of enzymes, each dissecting in a different specific part of the strand of DNA, scientists can take apart the double helix bit by bit and study specific pieces. They can also study the effects of removing a given piece.
        In an industrial application, by splicing genetic instructions into bacteria, microbes are induced to generate human hormones and other products.
        Until the work of Dr. Nathans and others in the 1970's, such products were produced only by living animals and humans.
        Daniel Nathans was born in Wilmington, Del., on Oct. 30, 1928. His parents were immigrants from Russia, and his father owned a five-and-dime store that he lost in the Depression.
        ''Our house was cold and leaky, and I learned later my parents sometimes went hungry, yet they generally managed to retain their good humor and certainly their hopes for their children,'' Dr. Nathans wrote in a brief biography for the Nobel Foundation.
        ''I was steered toward medicine at an early age by my father, who had his heart set on having a physician in the family, and as the youngest of his eight children, I was his last chance,'' he said in a graduation speech last year.
        He graduated from the University of Delaware in Newark in 1950 and earned his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1954.
        He intended to return to Wilmington as a family physician, but after a residency at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City, Dr. Nathans chose research. He worked at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., and at Rockefeller University.
        ''What impressed me most was how little was known about the basic biology of cancer, and how ineffective much of the available chemotherapy was then,'' Dr. Nathans said.
        In 1962, one of his professors in St. Louis, Dr. Barry Wood, moved to Baltimore and invited Dr. Nathans to join the faculty at Johns Hopkins.
        Asked by Dr. Wood to lecture students on viruses, Dr. Nathans said he was impressed through his reading ''that simple viruses had a profound and permanent effect on the growth of cells in culture or in a living animal.''
        Dr. Nathans's early research focused first on viruses that cause tumors in animals and then on cellular responses to growth factors, the mechanisms that cause cells to grow and multiply.
        In 1969, Dr. Nathans spent six months at the Weizmann Institute in Israel working on animal cells and viruses. There, he received a letter from a Johns Hopkins colleague, Dr. Hamilton O. Smith, who had discovered a restriction enzyme that cut the DNA of a bacterium at specific sites along the double helix.
        At the time, Dr. Nathans was working with SV40, a small tumor virus that causes cancer in primates and makes cells in tissue culture become cancerous. ''That letter stimulated me to think of using restriction enzymes to analyze the genes of SV40,'' Dr. Nathans said. He also used the enzymes to break up the DNA found in cancer cells in an effort to learn what made them different from normal cells.
        Dr. Nathan found that the restriction enzyme cut the simian virus in 10 places, creating 11 well-defined fragments. Then he found ways to use the cutting technique to help determine where genes began and ended in the DNA of the virus. This helped him find a gene in the virus that gives the order for production of a tumor-making protein.
        In 1978, Dr. Nathans shared a Nobel Prize in Medicine with Dr. Smith and Dr. Werner Arber of Basel, Switzerland. Dr. Arber had discovered the type of restriction enzymes that dismantle genetic material at specific points. The Nobel selection committee at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm predicted that their work would help in the prevention and treatment of malformations, hereditary disease and cancer. Restriction enzymes have led to the now-standard prenatal tests for cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, muscular dystrophy, hemophilia and many other genetic diseases.
        In 1993, Dr. Nathans won the nation's highest scientific award, the National Medal of Science. He was also a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Jeremy Nathans said his father measured his words carefully and was not gregarious.
        Aside from his son Jeremy, a molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Nathans is survived by his wife, Joanne Gomberg Nathans; two other sons, Eli, a lawyer who is becoming a historian at Johns Hopkins, and Benjamin, a professor of European history at the University of Pennsylvania; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 22, 1999, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about Dr. Daniel Nathans, a Nobel Prize-winning geneticist, referred imprecisely to the technique he pioneered to analyze DNA. He used chemical scalpels, not actual blades.
      