
        Joseph Kingsbury-Smith, a former national editor and chief foreign writer of Hearst Newspapers, died on Wednesday at his home in Waterford, Va. He was 90.
        Mr. Kingsbury-Smith served the Hearst empire for seven decades, starting in 1924 as a 16-year-old office boy at its wire agency, International News Service, known as I.N.S. That year The New York World asked him to cast his copy boy's eye on the Democratic National Convention in Madison Square Garden and printed his report on page 1.
        It was a long way from there to the series of interviews that he, William Randolph Hearst Jr. and a colleague, Frank Conniff, conducted in 1955 with the Communist Party chief Nikita S. Khrushchev and other Soviet leaders. Their feat earned them the 1966 Pulitzer Prize for foreign reporting.
        Mr. Kingsbury-Smith's 1949 correspondence with Stalin made headlines around the world. It took place at the height of the Soviet blockade of Berlin and the American airlift to the divided city, thus contributing to the bloodless end of that East-West standoff.
        It also brought Mr. Kingsbury-Smith a George Polk Memorial Award for Outstanding Journalism and other honors.
        Born in Manhattan, he attended private schools and rounded out his formal education at the University of London when he was posted to the I.N.S. London bureau in 1927.
        Mr. Kingsbury-Smith rose in the Hearst Corporation after being reassigned to Washington in 1931, where he became the chief I.N.S. diplomatic correspondent.
        In 1959 he was named publisher of The New York Journal-American. After a stint as European director of the corporation, based in Paris and Rome, he was named national editor of Hearst Newspapers in 1976. He retired in 1997 after serving as a director and vice president of the corporate parent and as a trustee of the estate of William Randolph Hearst.
        Mr. Kingsbury-Smith is survived by his wife of 58 years, Eileen King Kingsbury-Smith; two daughters, Eileen Pulling of Oyster Bay, N.Y., and Diana Keesee of Waterford; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 16, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Feb. 5 about Joseph Kingsbury-Smith, a former national editor and chief foreign writer for Hearst Newspapers, misstated the year in which he shared the Pulitzer Prize for international reporting. It was 1956, not 1966.
      