
        LaNoue Davenport, a pioneering figure in the revival of early music and period instruments and a former leader of the acclaimed ensemble New York Pro Musica and the American Recorder Society, died on Nov. 4 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 77 and had been suffering from emphysema.
        Little in Mr. Davenport's youth suggested that he would one day be involved with medieval and Renaissance music. Born in Dallas on Jan. 26, 1922, Mr. Davenport began his musical career playing the trumpet in small jazz bands. He earned a double scholarship in basketball and music to Texas Christian University. Later he enlisted in the Navy, serving in World War II.
        During these years he was recruited to play the trumpet in Claude Thornhill's band, which toured from ship to ship. After the war he moved to New York, where his elder brother, Pembroke, a director of musicals (''Kiss Me, Kate'') helped him get work in Broadway pit bands.
        In 1948, Mr. Davenport enrolled in the New York College of Music, where he became a protege of the German composer and musicologist Erich Katz, who introduced him to early music. In 1953 he began playing with the newly formed New York Pro Musica, directed by Noah Greenberg. He assumed the directorship after Mr. Greenberg's death in 1966, though in 1970, he formed his own ensemble, Music for a While.
        Mr. Davenport's association with the American Recorder Society began in the late 1940's. He edited its newsletter and became its first national president in 1960. Concurrently, in 1957, he founded and directed the Manhattan Recorder Consort.
        Atypically for champions of early music on period instruments, Mr. Davenport encouraged his musicians to include contemporary works on programs. Under his leadership, concerts by the consort often included music by Hindemith, Britten and other 20th-century composers.
        Mr. Davenport is survived by his wife, the soprano Sheila Schonbrun-Davenport of Stony Point, N.Y.; their two sons, Stefan and Chester; two sons from his first marriage, Darius and Mark; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 23, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about La Noue Davenport, an expert in early music and period instruments, misstated a surviving son's given name. The son is Dylan, not Chester.
      