
        Peter Wildeblood, a former journalist and television producer whose personal war against British law helped lead to the decriminalization of homosexuality in 1967, died on Nov. 13 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 76.
        The cause of death was complications resulting from a paralyzing stroke, said Lord Montagu of Beaulieu, a longtime friend.
        On March 24, 1954, Mr. Wildeblood, having freely said in court that he was a homosexual, was found guilty of conspiring to incite a young man to commit what were then described in law as indecent acts. He and a co-defendant, Michael Pitt-Rivers, were sentenced to 18 months in prison. Lord Montagu, another defendant, was given a one-year sentence.
        After his conviction, Mr. Wilde blood was dismissed from his job as diplomatic correspondent for The London Daily Mail.
        Mr. Wildeblood's account of his experiences in the courts and in prison in a book called ''Against the Law'' (Weidenfeld and Nicholson, 1955 and 1999) prompted debates in both houses of Parliament and led to the establishment of a government panel called the Wolfenden Committee to review the law dealing with male homosexual practices and female prostitution; lesbianism had never been illegal in Britain.
        In 1957, the committee recommended the decriminalization of private homosexual acts between consenting adults over age 21, and suggested that prostitution, which was not illegal, be allowed to continue. But it was not until 10 years later that the recommendations were made into law.
        ''The right which I claim for myself, and for all those like me, is the right to choose the person whom I love,'' Mr. Wildeblood once said.
        Peter Wildeblood was born in Alassio on the Italian Riviera in 1923, the son of a retired engineer. He went to Oxford on a scholarship, but became ill and dropped out after 10 days. He was accepted as a pilot by the Royal Air Force and sent to what was then Southern Rhodesia for training. After several crashes, he was grounded, and served during World War II in the Meteorological Branch.
        He returned to Oxford and graduated two years after the war, then worked for a series of newspapers in the north of England and sold freelance articles to Punch and Vogue. He joined The Daily Mail in 1950 and was soon named diplomatic correspondent.
        After his release from prison, he operated a popular bar in the Soho district of London and published a fictionalized biography, ''A Way of Life'' (1956), followed by two novels, a play and several musicals for which he wrote the book and lyrics.
        Gradually, Mr. Wildeblood shifted his attention to television production and was so successful that in the early 1970's he accepted a lucrative offer from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and moved to Vancouver.
        In 1994, a stroke left him almost completely paralyzed and speechless but mentally alert. He learned to communicate by operating an electric typewriter with his chin.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      