
        Dr. Alvin D. Coox, a former professor of Asian studies at San Diego State University who called attention to the importance of an obscure but critical military campaign in World War II, died on Nov. 4 in a hospice in San Diego. He was 75.
        Dr. Coox (pronounced cooks) died after a long illness, said a spokesman for the University of San Diego, where he taught from 1964 through 1995.
        Dr. Coox wrote or collaborated on 10 scholarly books. His reputation rested on his two-volume 1,200-page magnum opus, ''Nomonhan: Japan Against Russia, 1939'' (Stanford, 1988). It told of Japan's crushing defeat by the Soviet Union in 1939, when the two powers fought over a few miles of barren land between Mongolia and Manchuria.
        An elite Japanese division proved no match for Soviet tanks and heavy artillery under the command of Marshal Georgi Zhukov. An estimated 70,000 Soviet and Japanese soldiers died in the conflict, which was decided in three battles over 10 days in August 1939 and ended by thwarting the Japanese invasion of Mongolia.
        Dr. Coox argued that the defeat made Japan shy from fighting the Soviet Union, as it had planned, and instead take aim at Pearl Harbor.
        ''Nomonhan was one of the most important battles of World War II, because it bloodied the Japanese, and they remained fearful of the Soviet Union and decided that the Americans would be an easier target,'' said Dr. Chalmers Johnson, president of the Japan Policy Research Institute and former chairman of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of California at Berkeley. ''It was a classic blunder.
        ''But it led to a determination of the policy pursued by the Axis powers in World War II. The genius of Professor Coox was to recognize what a critically decisive battle it was to World War II. It was every bit as important as Stalingrad.''
        Dr. Coox told colleagues that his book on Nomonhan, which won the Samuel Eliot Morison Prize from the American Military Institute, was a result of 35 years of research and more than 400 interviews.
        ''I think he interviewed just about every living Russian or Japanese veteran of Nomonhan that there was,'' said Dr. Johnson.
        A group of Japanese veterans thought so highly of the book that they placed a copy in a Tokyo shrine to honor Japan's war dead.
        Alvin David Coox was born in Rochester. He earned a bachelor's from New York University and received a master's in history and a doctorate in history and government from Harvard. In the late 40's, he taught history at Harvard and was a senior historian at the Johns Hopkins University.
        His 15 years in Japan in the 50's and early 60's included six years as an intelligence analyst for the United States Air Force. In 1964, he went to the University of San Diego in 1964. From 1985 to 1987, he was an adjunct professor at the Naval War College there.
        Surviving are his wife, Hisako, of San Diego; a son, Roy, of Escondido, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
        Pedro Loureiro, a former student who teaches modern Chinese history at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., said of Dr. Coox today:
        ''His most popular course when he was director of the Center for Asian Studies was called War and Civilization. Even during Vietnam, when the study of war wasn't supposed to be popular, he could pack them in.''
      