
        Frank E. Taylor, a longtime book publisher who was editor in chief and general manager of the McGraw Hill Book Company's trade-book division and publisher of Avon Books for the Hearst Corporation, died on Nov. 16 at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 83.
        Mr. Taylor, who also worked in the movie industry, was the producer of the 1961 film ''The Misfits,'' starring Marilyn Monroe, Clark Gable, Eli Wallach and Montgomery Clift. The film was directed by John Huston and written by Arthur Miller.
        Mr. Taylor's book-publishing career began in 1940 at Harper & Brothers and spanned four decades. The authors he dealt with included Vladimir Nabokov, Eldridge Cleaver, Marshall McLuhan, Harold Taylor, Leo Rosten, Desmond Morris, Malcolm Lowry, Grace Metalious, Mr. Miller, Alfred Kazin, Karl Shapiro, Richard Wilbur, George Orwell and V. S. Pritchett.
        After serving as editor in chief of Dell Books from 1952 to 1961 and publisher of Avon Books from 1963 to 1965, he held his high posts at McGraw Hill from 1965 to 1970, when he said he was leaving because of a company reorganization ''that pushed me aside to work on special projects.''
        In a 1965 interview Mr. Taylor said he did not believe in editors interfering with writers.
        ''An editor,'' he said, ''should be a free critic who helps an author succeed in doing what he is trying to do.'' It is important, he added, ''to know the purposes and interests of an author from the beginning. But when the idea is accepted as publishable, you should leave the author alone.''
        He was born in Malone, N.Y., and received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from Hamilton College. He was with Reynal & Hitchcock, another New York publishing house, from 1941 to 1947, rising to editor in chief, and then was briefly with Random House. He was publisher of The Patent Trader, a Westchester County newspaper, from 1970 to 1973 and then had his own publishing imprint, Frank E. Taylor Books, with Praeger.
        He is survived by four sons, Michael and Curtice, of Manhattan, Mark, of Saranac Lake, N.Y., and Adams of Newport, R.I., and five grandchildren.
      