
        John Berry, a stage and movie director, writer and actor who made  more than 50 films and, entangled in the blacklist, exiled himself from Hollywood during the anti-Communist inquests of the 1950's, died on Monday at his home in Paris. He was 82.
        Long drawn to the dramatic conflicts of South Africa, Mr. Berry had just finished editing his latest film, ''Boesman and Lena,'' based on a 1969 play by Athol Fugard, said Kent Jones, a curator with the Film Society of Lincoln Center. Mr. Berry  directed an acclaimed production of the play at Circle in the Square in 1970. The film about an outcast couple -- so-called Cape coloreds, classified neither white nor black and forced to wander a dismal landscape -- stars Danny Glover and Angela Bassett and is set for release in May.
        In a career spanning more than 60 years, Mr. Berry, a rugged-faced pipe smoker, worked alongside many of the era's leading lights, from Orson Welles to Paul Muni, Richard Wright, Joan Fontaine, John Garfield, Shelley Winters, Fernandel, Jean-Paul Sartre, John Houseman, Lillian Gish, Curt Jurgens and Dorothy Dandridge.
        He appeared in Welles's Mercury Theater production of ''Julius Caesar''; played a defense lawyer in a 1942 Broadway production of Wright's ''Native Son''; directed Garfield and Winters in the 1951 thriller ''He Ran All the Way,'' about a fugitive murderer who terrorizes a family, and wrote the screenplay for ''Tamango,'' a 1957 film that paired Jurgens and Dandridge as interracial lovers, a provocative premise at the time.
        His work, not surprisingly, drew both bouquets and brickbats, but his most difficult ordeal began in 1950 after he agreed to make a short film on the Hollywood 10, a group of leading moviemakers who refused to cooperate with the House Un-American Activities Committee's investigation into alleged Communist infiltration of the movie business.
        As Mr. Berry later recounted in a 1974 interview with The New York Times, when the House panel began looking into him there was testimony about a supposed Communist cell meeting at his house in Hollywood -- he said he knew nothing about it. By the end of the year, ''faced with the choice of naming names or going to jail,'' he packed up and moved, poverty stricken, to Paris, leaving his wife, Gladys Cole, and two young children behind. They later joined him, but the marriage fell apart.
        Yet he said: ''People frequently ask me if I'm bitter about those days and and I must admit that I regret some of it. But the horizon of my life became infinite; I met people, encountered a culture I'd never have known otherwise, one I got to know deeply because I had to survive in it.'' He returned to the United States in 1964 but retained his ties to Paris.
        Mr. Berry was born in 1917 in the Bronx where he made his stage debut at 5 in a vaudeville act. His father became a wealthy restaurateur; at one point he owned 28 restaurants,  and one was near the Playhouse on West 49th Street where young John would be deposited on matinee days.
        The family lost its wealth in the Depression and Mr. Berry ended up in the Catskills telling jokes at resort hotels for $5 a week. He joined a Shakespeare troupe in the city and auditioned before John Houseman for the part of Marc Anthony in a Mercury Theater production of ''Julius Caesar.''
        ''You're a splendid fellow,'' Houseman said, ''but your speech is dreadful.'' He prescribed elocution lessons. Mr. Berry joined the production and won other parts, rising to become an assistant to Welles, which turned him away from acting and toward directing. ''It was like living near the center of a volcano of creating inspiration and fury, glamorous and exciting, full of the kind of theatricality that seems lost forever,'' he recalled in the Times interview.
        In 1942, he played in and helped direct Welles's production of ''Native Son'' about a black man who kills a white woman, and later took it on the road, experiencing, as he said, ''the enormous prejudice, the overpowering sense of white superiority that existed everywhere.''
        In 1944, with Houseman's help, he began his Hollywood career, soon directing ''Miss Susie Slagle's'' (1946) with Lillian Gish, Veronica Lake and Sonny Tufts. There followed a flurry of other films including ''Cross My Heart'' (1946), ''Casbah,'' (1948) and '' Tension'' (1949). He directed the John Garfield film, ''He Ran All the Way'' -- the blacklisted actor's last movie -- before his film on the Hollywood 10 drove Mr. Berry into exile in Paris.
        He arrived with $800 and scratched out a living ghostwriting scripts. At one point, he recalled, he was down to his last 28 cents.
        He marked his return to the United States in 1964 with an Off Broadway production of Fugard's ''Blood Knot'' about two brothers, one black, the other white.
        In 1970, he directed ''Boesman and Lena'' with James Earl Jones at Circle in the Square and months later, Lorraine Hansberry's ''Blancs,'' also with Mr. Jones. Two years later Mr. Berry directed two plays, Romulus Linney's ''Love Suicide at Schofield Barracks'' on Broadway and Arthur Miller's ''Crucible'' at Lincoln Center.
        Meanwhile, he also kept making films. In 1974 he directed Diahann Carroll and James Earl Jones in the comedy ''Claudine.'' In 1978 came ''The Bad News Bears Go to Japan'' (critics said they should have stayed home) and in 1982 he teamed up again with Ms. Carroll for a television movie shown on NBC, ''Sister, Sister,'' written by Maya Angelou, a co-producer.
        Mr. Berry's family could not be reached in Paris yesterday, but Variety reported that he is survived by his wife, Myriam Boyer; two sons, Dennis and Arnie, and a daughter, Jan.
      