
        German Arciniegas Angueyra, one of Latin America's most prolific writers and distinguished intellectuals, died in a hospital here last Monday. He would have celebrated his 99th birthday next Monday.
        In a literary and political career that spanned nine decades, Mr. Arciniegas (pronounced ahr-seen-YAY-gus) wrote more than 70 books, mostly histories and biographies, and an estimated 15,000 essays and newspaper articles. Several of his works have been translated into English and used as college texts, among them ''America in Europe,'' an analysis of the influence of the New World on the Old, and ''Latin America: A Cultural History.''
        President Andres Pastrana decreed three days of national mourning, calling Mr. Arciniegas ''an eminent public man, intellectual and writer'' who ''during almost the entirety of this century was an untiring producer and promoter of culture in Colombia.''
        Beginning with his first book, ''The Student at the Round Table,'' a study of student involvement in politics published in 1932, Mr. Arciniegas was a critic of the military and of dictatorships in Latin America. For long periods, the two were often synonymous, which, combined with his leftist sympathies, resulted in the banning of several of his books and forced him into exile in the United States in the early 1950's.
        Even in old age, Mr. Arciniegas was no stranger to controversy. In 1992 he was dismissed as president of the national commission that was organizing commemorations of the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival in the New World after he clashed with Cesar Gaviria, then Colombia's president, who Mr. Arciniegas felt wanted a celebration that was ''neo-colonialist'' and too deferential to Spain.
        In its obituary, El Tiempo, the newspaper for which Mr. Arciniegas wrote from 1918 until his death, asked: ''What was Arciniegas: A politician? A diligent polemicist? A historian? A journalist? The discoverer of a literary continent?'' The correct answer, the newspaper replied, was all of these. ''And these intellectual facets are indistinguishable from those of his personality: perpetual worker, untiring joker and a generous and focused teacher,'' the newspaper said.
        Though an intellectual at heart, defining himself as ''an eternal student,'' Mr. Arciniegas also led a varied and vigorous public life. He was elected three times to Colombia's national congress as a member of the Liberal Party, was twice minister of education in the 1940's and enjoyed a long diplomatic career, with appointments as ambassador to Italy, the Vatican and Venezuela.
        Beginning in the 1940's, Mr. Arciniegas worked as a visiting professor at several American universities, teaching courses in sociology and Latin American history and literature. Among the institutions where he taught were Brooklyn College, Columbia University, Mills College, the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Chicago.
        While teaching at Columbia in 1953, Mr. Arciniegas fell afoul of one of the national security measures typical of the McCarthy period. Returning to New York from a trip to Paris, he was detained and held for a night at Ellis Island, apparently because the dictatorship then in power in Colombia had falsely told the American immigration authorities that he was a Communist.
        Mr. Arciniegas was married for 70 years to Gabriela Vieira, who died in 1996 and to whom he dedicated all of his books. He is survived by two daughters, Gabriela and Aurora, both prominent translators here, and a granddaughter, Gabriela Santa Arciniegas, who is also a writer.
      