
        Walt Levinsky, a jazz clarinetist, composer and arranger, died here on Dec. 14, days after being released from a hospital in New York City. He was 70 and lived in River Edge, N.J., and Sarasota.
        He was suffering from brain cancer and had been in a coma for more than two months, his family said.
        For more than a half-century, Mr. Levinsky played with jazz greats like Benny Goodman, led his own swing band featuring Goodman alumni, composed television and movie scores and was a respected arranger. His band played familiar swing music but with new arrangements. Mr. Levinsky bristled at the word nostalgia.
        ''I don't see this as nostalgia music,'' he said in 1994. ''That's like saying Mozart is nostalgia. Just because it's old doesn't mean it's nostalgia. What we're doing is taking arrangements that were written then and putting our own touches on them. We're playing them with a modern conception. They're still alive.''
        Mr. Levinsky prepared most of the arrangements for Bob Rosengarden, a drummer, while he was musical director for Dick Cavett's late-night talk show in the 1970's.
        He spent two years playing with Tommy Dorsey and worked with Goodman on and off for about 19 years. He once estimated that he played in more than 5,000 recording sessions, and he arranged songs for Frank Sinatra, Liza Minnelli, Richard Harris and Doc Severinsen.
        He wrote the theme songs for numerous television shows, including ''The CBS Evening News With Dan Rather,'' ''CBS News Nightwatch,'' ABC's ''20/20'' and CBS coverage of N.F.L. football and college basketball. For 12 years he was musical director for the Daytime Emmy Awards.
        He also ran the control booth for the composer and arranger Dick Hyman during his work for several Woody Allen films.
        He is survived by his wife, Natalie;  a son, Ken, a musician from Hackensack, N.J.; two daughters, Judy Hobbs of Kennesaw, Ga., and Susie Nathanson of Hampton, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
      