
        Anthony Imperiale, a race-baiting civic leader and politician from Newark who became a national symbol of the backlash against urban unrest by wielding a baseball bat to defend his white neighborhood during the 1967 riots, died Sunday at Saint Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston of complications related to kidney failure. He was 68.
        A former Marine who served in the Korean War, Mr. Imperiale first surfaced in Newark politics in the early 1960's as an opponent of busing to achieve school desegregation. Then, in July 1967, when Newark burned, gunfire erupted from apartment windows and 26 people were killed, Mr. Imperiale began preaching armed white self-defense.
        He formed the North Ward First Aid Squad, ostensibly to escort residents of the predominantly Italian North Ward through racially troubled areas. But the group's nighttime street patrols drew charges of vigilantism. And Mr. Imperiale's defiance, even demagoguery, only made things worse, his critics said. At one point, he warned that ''when the Black Panther comes, the white hunter will be waiting.''
        The Democratic governor then, Richard J. Hughes, called Mr. Imperiale's followers ''brownshirts,'' and the patrols were discontinued in 1969. By then, however, Mr. Imperiale had capitalized on his notoriety, winning election to an at-large City Council seat.
        In 1971, when the Essex County Republican organization refused to give him its endorsement to run for the State Assembly, Mr. Imperiale ran as an independent and won, an unheard-of accomplishment. Former Gov. Thomas P. Kean, then the Assembly speaker, recalled Mr. Imperiale planting his seat squarely in the aisle between the two sides of the chamber and refusing to move out of the way.
        Mr. Kean remembered Mr. Imperiale for his sense of humor, and his forcefulness, but also as a ''polarizing force.''
        ''Any time there was trouble he was there, and the trouble often got worse because he was there,'' Mr. Kean said. ''In the period after the riots, there were people on the left and right who tried to make a name by making the situation worse, and by being extremists, and he was one of those people in that period. He was not as bad as his enemies said he was, but he wasn't as good as friends said he was.''
        In 1973, Mr. Imperiale won election as an independent to the State Senate. He was defeated in 1977, but was elected again in 1979, this time as a Republican. But the peak of his political career came in 1974, when he lost a close race against Newark Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson, receiving 43.7 percent of the votes cast.
        Mr. Imperiale's chief black opponent was not Mr. Gibson, however, but the poet Amiri Baraka, with whom he clashed over a seemingly endless series of issues. The battle that drew the most attention was a proposal that Mr. Baraka backed to build a low-income housing project, called the Kawaida Towers, in the North Ward.
        Steven N. Adubato Sr., a powerful Democrat in the North Ward who was Mr. Imperiale's principal opponent in the Italian-American community, recalled Mr. Imperiale chaining himself to a fence for days to block the project, which eventually failed. ''Every day, he and Baraka would put on a show for the cameras,'' he said.
        For years, Mr. Imperiale was a fixture at Newark's Columbus Day parades; his outrageous costumes produced thousands of belly laughs. One year he dressed up as a gladiator and shared a float with a live lion.  Another year, he rode in a tank.
        In 1981, Mr. Imperiale became embroiled in a new controversy, when he admitted running a Republican ballot-security program in Newark that Democrats claimed existed solely to suppress the black vote. Mr. Imperiale denied that his armband-wearing guards tried to intimidate black voters. Nonetheless, his efforts on behalf of Mr. Kean were seen as crucial in Mr. Kean's winning the governor's race by 850 votes.
        The same year, Mr. Imperiale was elected again to the Assembly, this time as a Republican, and served one term.
        After that, although he gained praise for founding a volunteer ambulance corps, his political career fizzled. He was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1984, but lost Republican primaries for United States representative in 1988, for Essex County sheriff in 1991 and for County freeholder in 1993.
        Mr. Imperiale, who is survived by his wife, Louise, five sons, two daughters and 13 grandchildren, led a home life that seemed as rocky as his political career at times.
        In 1984 his son Anthony Jr. was sentenced to nine years in prison for shooting and wounding a 17-year-old who was making noise outside his bedroom window. And in January 1997, his son Michael was shot and wounded by an off-duty police officer after the two were involved in a collision.
        Though many called Mr. Imperiale a racist, he was said to have mellowed in recent years, more so after he was hospitalized in 1995 for kidney failure.
        Mr. Adubato, who called himself one of Mr. Imperiale's longtime political ''enemies,'' observed that as an ambulance volunteer, ''he never was concerned about what color the person was, black or white. If he could help, he would help.''
        Mr. Adubato told how he learned something of Mr. Imperiale's generosity, as well as his sense of humor, about 10 years ago.
        ''My mother-in-law had an attack, she was an older woman, and I called Tony's ambulance squad,'' Mr. Adubato said. ''A short time after I called, she died.
        ''So a few minutes later I hear the door, and there's Tony Imperiale, with all this equipment. He was a big, heavyset guy. And he runs up the stairs, and he's in the next room, taking all this oxygen and equipment out. And I said, 'Tony, it's O.K.'
        ''But he said, 'That's not for her. It's for me.'''
      