
        Joseph Leo McGahn, a New Jersey obstetrician who, as a Democratic state senator, paved the way for Atlantic City's gambling industry in the 1970's, died Friday at Meadowview Nursing Home in Northfield, N.J. A longtime resident of Absecon, N.J., he was 82.
        Dr. McGahn represented Atlantic City and its environs in Trenton for two terms from 1972 to 1978. He was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Energy and the Environment.
        He was the principal architect of the legislation that opened the gates for the casino industry, with its aim of economic revival for Atlantic City. He also pressed for state supervision of that industry with what was then described as the toughest casino regulations in the world.
        Dr. McGahn was an Absecon councilman and mayor before announcing his candidacy for the Senate, in a county in which registered Republicans heavily outnumbered Democrats. He defeated the incumbent, Senator Frank S. (Hap) Farley, the dean of the upper chamber and Republican boss of South Jersey, in 1971. He ran without the blessings of the Democratic establishment, as he did when he won re-election in 1973.
        He lost the Democratic primary in 1977, ran as an independent and lost to Steven P. Perskie, a Democratic assemblyman with whom he had worked closely to put the casino legislation before the voters in a referendum. In 1981 he tried again, this time running as a Republican, and lost again to Mr. Perskie.
        Joseph McGahn was born in Atlantic City, graduated summa cum laude from St. Mary's College in Emmitsburg, Md., in 1939 and received his medical degree at the University of Pittsburgh in 1943. He served as a general surgeon in the Army Medical Corps in World War II.
        He practiced general medicine and surgery in Atlantic City until 1951, when he began to specialize in obstetrics and gynecology. He was an emergency-room physician at the Atlantic City Medical Center until 1984, after which he became medical director at Resorts International, retiring in 1989.
        Dr. McGahn's wife, Joanne, died two years ago. He is survived by two sons, Joseph P. and Michael, both of Egg Harbor, N.J.; two brothers, Donald of Brigantine, N.J., and Patrick of Margate, N.J.; and two grandsons.
      