
        Lawrence J. Majewski, an internationally known art conservation expert who headed an American team of conservators in Florence, Italy, after flooding there in 1966, died on Dec. 2 at his home in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. He was 80.
        The cause was leukemia, said Prof. Margaret Holben Ellis, chairman of the New York University Institute of Fine Arts Conservation Center.
        Professor Majewski was the center's chairman in 1972, when he and three other experts jointly affirmed a dramatic reappraisal of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's famous bronze horse, which had been deemed inauthentic in 1967 after being known as ''one of the finest bronzes of classical Greece.''
        He retired in 1986 as chairman and as Hagop Kevorkian professor of art conservation at the center in Manhattan. Last month he received the Conservation and Heritage Management Award of the Archaeological Institute of America for accomplishments that included organizing and leading a group of 17 American conservators who worked in Florence after the flood.
        The group's journey was seen as a fact-finding mission, but its members also plunged into the rescue efforts in the most physical way. ''They assisted in moving artworks into dry areas where possible,'' Professor Ellis recalled. The group also helped rescue sodden books.
        Professor Majewski and his three fellow experts declared in 1972 that the Metropolitan's bronze horse, which the museum's vice director for operations, Joseph Noble, had called a 20th-century fraud and forgery in 1967, was in fact an ''irrefutably genuine work of antiquity.'' Their finding still stands, Professor Ellis said .
        Born in Mason City, Iowa, Professor Majewski earned bachelor's and master's degrees in fine arts at Yale University and worked at the Metropolitan Museum and in Turkey before joining the center's staff in 1960. He became chairman in 1966.
        He is survived by his companion, Dewey Owens, and a brother, Andrew, of Plymouth, Iowa.
      