
        Louis Feraud, a prominent French fashion designer who first made his name in the mid-1950's when Brigitte Bardot began wearing his brightly colored summer dresses, died on Tuesday at his home in Paris. He was 79. French news reports said he had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
        During a career that lasted more than 40 years, Mr. Feraud created not only haute couture and ready-to-wear designs for women but menswear, perfumes and scarves. With Kim Novak and Ingrid Bergman among his early clients, he was considered a classical French designer in the tradition of Christian Dior, Balenciaga and Givenchy, but his designs also reflected the cheerful colors of his native Provence.
        ''What I always wanted to do was to please women,'' he once said. Indeed, his company's best known advertising line said just that: ''Louis Feraud loves women.''
        In 1995, his health already failing, Mr. Feraud handed over control of the fashion house to his daughter, Dominique, also a designer, whose own creations were noticeably more elaborate. In 1997, Ms. Feraud, widely known as Kiki, sold the Louis Feraud ready-to-wear label to the Dutch textile group Secon, which acquired the rest of the company three months ago.
        Born in Arles on Feb. 13, 1920, Mr. Feraud's first love was painting, which prompted him to turn away from his father's bakery business. During Germany's wartime occupation of France, he joined the Resistance in Marseille and, although arrested once, he escaped and participated in the liberation of France in 1944. Working in Paris as a swim teacher after the war, he met his future wife, Alice, and they moved to Cannes where he planned to paint.
        He and his wife, better known as Zizi, opened a small boutique in the late 1940's and it was there that Ms. Bardot appeared during the 1955 Cannes film festival to buy a white dress. ''Photographers and journalists followed her,'' Mr. Feraud recalled years later. ''Within a week, every woman up and down the Cote  d'Azur was wearing my little white dress. We sold 500 of them in a matter of days.''
        This stroke of luck brought Mr. Feraud instant fame, and he was soon designing clothes for Ms. Bardot's screen roles. Moving to Paris in 1956, he opened a store and workshop on the fashionable Rue du Fabourg St.-Honore opposite the Elysee Palace, the residence of French presidents. Two years later, already popular with the international jet set, he was invited to present his designs along with France's top couturiers.
        From the 1960's, Mr. Feraud gained fame abroad, with his high-quality ready-to-wear clothes sold in such stores as Saks Fifth Avenue in New York and Harrod's in London and his haute couture designs present on runways in the United States, Japan, Britain, Italy and Brazil. In the 70's, he expanded into menswear and launched a new line of perfumes, among them ''Justine'' for women and ''Corrida'' for men. Stylists who worked for him early in their careers included Daniel Hechter and Jean-Louis Scherrer.
        Even at the height of his career, Mr. Feraud never abandoned his lifelong passion for painting, and he was particularly pleased when a selection of his works was shown at the Grand Palais in Paris in 1988. He also wrote a novel, ''L'Ete du Pingouin,'' or ''The Penguin's Summer,'' and a memoir, ''L'Hiver des Fous,'' or ''The Winter of Fools.''
        In the 1960's, Mr. Feraud divorced Zizi Feraud and was briefly married to Mia Fonssagrives, but Zizi always remained his business partner and close friend. After Mr. Feraud retired in 1995, Zizi and Kiki, who both survive him, continued to run the company until it was sold.
      