
        Herbert J. Freudenberger, a psychologist who coined the term ''burnout'' for the fatigued and frazzled, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        The cause was longstanding heart complications, said his son, Marc Freud.
        Dr. Freudenberger maintained a private practice in Manhattan for more than 40 years. He wrote books and more than 90 articles, and taught at universities in New York and elsewhere.
        The Oxford English Dictionary credits him with first using burnout in his 1974 book, ''Burnout: The High Cost of High Achievement.''
        He defined burnout as ''the extinction of motivation or incentive, especially where one's devotion to a cause or relationship fails to produce the desired results.'' His interest in the subject arose as a result of problems he encountered in treating dedicated mental health workers, his son said.
        Dr. Freudenberger found burnout -- which leaves people feeling they are trying harder and accomplishing less -- both in patients and fellow staff members.
        He noticed that tired, discouraged people became sloppy and stopped making time for meaningful discussions with their peers. They also experienced a loss of self-confidence, and a sense of boredom. Paradoxically, he observed that the lack of self-esteem was sometimes manifested through feelings of omnipotence and refusals of offers of help.
        He developed individual and group therapy for these symptoms.
        His observations about burnout were included in the books ''Burnout: The High Costs of High Attainment,'' which he wrote with Geraldine Richelson, and ''Women's Burnout: How to Spot It, How to Reverse It, and How to Prevent It''(1985), which he wrote with Gail North.
        Dr. Freudenberger was no stranger to stress. He was born in Frankfurt in 1926. By the time he was 12, his family, like other Jews, faced persecution at the hands of the Nazis. In November 1938, he saw his own synagogue burned to the ground.
        Using his father's passport, the youth left Germany by himself, traveling through Zurich, Amsterdam and Paris before ultimately arriving in New York.
        He went to live with a step-aunt, who became increasingly angry at him when she realized she would not get the money that had been promised to her by his father, whose factory had been seized. She kept him in an attic and made him sleep in an upright chair, Mr. Freud said.
        At 14, he fled to live on the streets but was later taken in by a cousin.
        The family's doctor urged him to go to college, and he enrolled in night classes at Brooklyn College.
        After graduation, he simultaneously earned a doctorate from New York University and received his analyst's training at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis.
        As a psychologist, Dr. Freudenberger did not confine himself to the therapeutic practice he was beginning to build. He also went into the streets in the 1970's, working to establish free clinics for addicts and others.
        Later, after a full day at his Manhattan office, he would go to East Harlem to work with substance abusers, often until after midnight, his son said.
        A California court asked him to analyze Charles Manson. He wrote about the Beatles and appeared on ''Oprah'' and other general-interest television shows.
        The colleges at which he taught included the New School of Social Research, New York University and Louisiana State University.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Arlene, and two daughters, Dr. Lori Freudenberger of Manhattan and Dr. Lisa Freudenberger of Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., who will continue the practice she shared with her father in Manhattan, Westchester County and Long Island.
        Mr. Freud remembered his father as having a delightful sense of humor and being intensely driven. He worked 14 or 15 hours a day, six days a week, until three weeks before his death.
        ''His early years, unfortunately, never really left him,'' he said. ''He was a very complicated man, and deeply conflicted because of his upbringing. He had very little childhood. He was a survivor.''
      