
        Irving Rapper, whose 50-year directorial career reached its peak at the Warner Brothers studio in the 1940's when he made a series of films with Bette Davis and who frequently drew upon his early stage experiences to adapt Broadway hits to the screen, died Dec. 20 at the Motion Picture and Television Fund home in  Los Angeles. He was 101.
        Some directors are remembered for a distinctive voice, some for exploring specific genres, others for long associations with a stable of favorite actors. Mr. Rapper is best known for a single scene: In ''Now, Voyager'' (1942), he had Paul Henreid light two cigarettes then nonchalantly hand one to Bette Davis, a move that struck audiences of the day as so suave and sensuous that it became one of the most replayed and parodied moments in screen history.
        Many wondered where the inspiration for it came. Mr. Henreid once took credit for dreaming up the move. Another actor who worked with the director, George Brent, said he had done the same thing in an earlier film. But Mr. Rapper merely pointed out that the moment was drawn directly from the original story upon with the film was based.
        Mr. Rapper was born in London in 1898, but moved with his family to New York when he was 8. As a student at New York University, he  initially studied law but gradually became more interested in the theater, first as an actor but later as a director and stage manager. Some of his early successes on Broadway in the late 1920's and early 30's drew the attention of the Warner Brothers studio, which invited Mr. Rapper to move to California and begin an apprenticeship there.
        He was assigned initially to work with the director William Dieterle and was an assistant director and dialogue coach on such prestige productions of the period as ''The Story of Louis Pasteur'' (1936), ''The Life of Emile Zola'' (1937) and ''Juarez'' (1939), all starring Paul Muni. The studio promoted him to director in 1941 and his first film was ''Shining Victory,'' like many of his works an adaptation of a stage play, in this case a romantic drama by A. J. Cronin about a scientist and his adoring assistant. Mr. Rapper's second film -- ''One Foot in Heaven'' (1941) -- was even more positively received and starred Fredric March as a young minister grappling with the modern world.
        It was the next year that Mr. Rapper began the most fruitful artistic collaboration of his career, first directing Ms. Davis in ''Now, Voyager,'' the story of a repressed woman whose erotic and romantic nature is reawakened through psychotherapy. Both Ms. Davis and Gladys Cooper, who played her mother, received Academy Award nominations for their work in the film. Mr. Rapper later worked with Ms. Davis on ''The Corn Is Green'' (1945), ''Deception'' (1946) and ''Another Man's Poison'' (1951).
        ''She was a powerful actress and a powerful dame,'' Mr. Rapper told an interviewer in 1977. ''We had our differences, but they were always settled without interference from the front office. I think they were afraid of her.''
        Although Mr. Rapper was never a favorite of the critics, he continued to draw high profile assignments -- ''The Adventures of Mark Twain'' (1944), with Fredric March playing the author; ''Rhapsody in Blue'' (1945), with Robert Alda and Herbert Rudley playing George and Ira Gershwin, and ''Voice of the Turtle'' (1947), an adaptation of a Broadway comedy, with Ronald Reagan and Eleanor Parker.
        ''Rapper now let his contract with Warners expire, and while he would work for the studio again he never reached the modest heights he attained as their employee,'' wrote Michael Barson in ''The Illustrated Who's Who of Hollywood Directors.''
        Among Mr. Rapper's later films was the 1950 film adaptation of Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie,'' starring Jane Wyman and Kirk Douglas, and the 1958 adaptation of ''Marjorie Morningstar,'' a Herman Wouk best seller about the romance between an aspiring actress (Natalie Wood) and an aging stage director (Gene Kelly).
        Probably the best film he directed in this period was ''The Brave One'' (1956), the story of a young Mexican boy who tries to keep his pet bull out of the ring. The film is best known as the one for which Dalton Trumbo, then still-blacklisted, was given an Academy Award under the pseudonym of Robert Rich, an award that he did not actually collect for almost two decades.
        In the 1960's Mr. Rapper did some work in Europe, returning to the United States in the 70's for his two final films, neither of which was well-received, ''The Christine Jorgensen Story'' in 1970, about the tennis player who had a sex-change operation, and ''Born Again'' in 1978, based on the book by the Watergate conspirator Chuck Colson about his prison conversion.
        Mr. Rapper had been living at the fund's nursing home in Woodland Hills since 1995.
        Even at the height of his career in the mid-40's, Mr. Rapper once said he had few illusions about his ranking among other directors or even his relationship with his most famous collaborator.
        He once recalled escorting the mercurial Ms. Davis to a concert where a number of Hollywood's top directors would be in attendance. ''I said, 'Bette, I'm nervous about mixing with all those guys,' and she said, 'Irving Rapper, if I didn't think you were better than every one of them, would I be here with you in this car right now?' And then, the next day, she would say, 'Irving? Irving who?' ''
        Correction:  December 31, 1999, Friday  An obituary of the film director Irving Rapper yesterday misidentified the subject of a film he made in 1970. ''The Christine Jorgensen Story'' was about George Jorgensen, a former Army private from the Bronx who had a sex-change operation in 1952. It was not about Dr. Richard Raskind, an amateur tennis champion who became Dr. Renee Richards after having the operation in 1975.
      