
        Dr. Sam Treiman, who was recognized for his seminal research in particle physics and for his Socratic style in passing that knowledge to his students, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Curtis Callan, chairman of the physics department at Princeton University, where Dr. Treiman retired last year with emeritus status.
        In 1958, Dr. Treiman and a colleague, Marvin Goldberger, who is now at the University of California in San Diego, deduced an unexpected relationship between the so-called weak and strong forces of elementary particle physics.
        What came to be known as the Goldberger-Treiman Relation connected two domains of the microworld that had been thought to be distinct and helped lead to a much grander theory of particle physics that is known as the Standard Model.
        ''The relationship that Goldberger and Treiman found was surprising in its simplicity,'' Dr. Callan said. With time, he said, ''it became clear that this initial development opened the door to a new realm.''
        Dr. Treiman was also known for the time he spent as a mentor to his students, including Dr. Callan and Dr. Steven Weinberg, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1979 for his work in unifying the weak and electromagnetic forces.
        Sam Bard Treiman was born in Chicago on May 27, 1925. He attended Northwestern University but interrupted his studies to serve in the Navy as a radar technician in the Philippines during World War II. After completing his Ph.D. in physics at the University of Chicago in 1952, he joined the faculty at Princeton.
        The Goldberger-Treiman Relation helped explain that certain deep symmetries governed the interactions of elementary particles. That insight helped lead to the theory of ''spontaneous symmetry breaking'' that underlies the Standard Model.
        ''But not everyone was happy,'' Dr. Treiman wrote of the relation, which was later verified through experiments. ''After all, Goldberger and I were quite unable, apart from hand waving, to justify the rather hair-raising approximations we'd been forced to adopt.''
        Dr. Treiman is survived by his wife, Joan Little Treiman; two daughters, Rebecca, of Pleasant Ridge, Mich., and Katherine, of Rockville, Md; a son, Thomas, of Holts Summit, Mo.; and seven grandchildren.
        He regarded his work with students as a mutual exploration rather than as a mechanical transmission of knowledge, Dr. Callan said.
        ''He really loved the Socratic approach to things,'' Dr. Callan said. '' 'We both don't understand this; let's see if we can figure it out.' ''
      