
        Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and played a pivotal role in creating the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52.
        The death was announced by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which Mr. Swanson had attended. A spokeswoman for Genentech said the company had no comment, in deference to the wishes of Mr. Swanson's family.
        Mr. Swanson was a 29-year-old venture capitalist in 1976 when he started Genentech, the first company formed to exploit the then-new technology of genetic engineering. Genentech has stayed one of the industry's most successful companies.
        ''Basically, he started the biotechnology industry in three or four key ways,'' said George Rathmann, who co-founded Amgen Inc., another leading biotechnology company and is now chairman of the Icos Corporation. ''The guy made the most extraordinary possible contribution to a whole industry.''
        Mr. Swanson served as Genentech's chief executive from its founding until 1990, a period in which the company created most of the first biotechnology drugs, including human insulin for diabetes; human growth hormone for dwarfism; and tissue plasminogen activator, or TPA, a drug that restores blood flow after heart attacks and is credited with saving countless lives.
        He was chairman of Genentech from 1990 until 1996 and since then had invested in startup companies. Mr. Swanson was chairman of Tularik Inc., a biotechnology company scheduled to go public this week.
        Robert Swanson grew up in Florida, the son of an Eastern Air Lines employee, and earned degrees in chemistry and management from M.I.T. He joined Citicorp Venture Capital in New York and was transferred to San Francisco, then joined the venture capital firm now called Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers.
        The technique of gene splicing, in which a gene from one organism can be inserted into another, had been developed in the early 1970's by Herbert W. Boyer of the University of California at San Francisco and Stanley Cohen of Stanford University. Mr. Swanson persuaded Dr. Boyer to meet for 10 minutes. So taken was Dr. Boyer by his vision and enthusiasm that the meeting stretched to three hours.
        The two men formed Genentech in April 1976, and it is widely considered the first biotechnology company. Another biotechnology company, the Cetus Corporation, was actually formed five years earlier, but its focus was not initially on gene-splicing. When Genentech went public in 1980, its stock soared on the first day of trading.
        Mr. Swanson built a strong scientific team by recruiting from universities. Scientists could publish their work, something most big drug companies were reluctant to allow. Genentech, based in South San Francisco, boasted an informal atmosphere, known for its Friday afternoon themed parties known as ho-ho's.
        Still, Mr. Swanson was extremely hard-driving and demanding, and Genentech's early days were marked by some controversy over allegedly aggressive sales tactics. In April, Genentech agreed to pay $50 million to settle Federal criminal charges that it had marketed human growth hormone for unapproved uses from 1985 to 1994.
        Last month, Genentech agreed to pay $200 million to the University of California at San Francisco to settle a patent infringement lawsuit stemming from the development of a human growth hormone in the company's early days.
        In 1990, Genentech agreed to sell 60 percent of its stock to Roche Holding, the Swiss drug giant, for $2.1 billion. This year, Roche bought the rest of Genentech it did not own but then sold shares to the public again.
        Mr. Swanson was involved in numerous civic and academic activities, serving on various advisory councils at M.I.T. and as a trustee of the San Francisco Ballet and other organizations.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy Church Swanson; his daughters, Katie and Erica; and his mother, Arline Swanson, of Foster City, Calif.
      