
        Robert A. Swanson, who co-founded Genentech Inc. and is considered the father of the biotechnology industry, died Monday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif., after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He was 52.
        Mr. Swanson was a 29-year-old venture capitalist in 1976 when he started Genentech, the first company formed to exploit the then new technology of genetic engineering. Now, there are more than 1,000 biotechnology companies in the United States alone, but Genentech has remained one of the two or three most successful.
        ''Lots of people started companies,'' said David Botstein, chairman of the genetics department at Stanford University and a former vice president of Genentech. ''Not so many invented industries.''
        Mr. Swanson served as Genentech's chief executive from its founding until 1990, then served as the company's chairman until the end of 1996.
        Genentech scored many firsts in the biotechnology industry. In 1977, it produced the first human protein by splicing a gene into bacteria. It created the first drug produced by genetic engineering, human insulin, which it licensed to Eli Lilly & Company for treatment of diabetes.
        It was also the first biotechnology company to sell its own drug, human growth hormone, for treatment of children whose own bodies do not produce enough of the hormone.
        Another big drug developed by Genentech was tissue plasminogen activator, or T.P.A., which helps restore blood flow after heart attacks and is credited with saving countless lives.
        Genentech was also the first biotechnology company to sell shares to the public, in 1980. The stock soared after trading started, similar to the way Internet stocks do today.
        Robert Swanson grew up in Florida, the son of an Eastern Air Lines employee, and earned degrees in chemistry and management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He joined Citicorp Venture Capital in New York and was transferred to San Francisco. He then joined the venture capital firm now known as Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
        Gene-splicing technology, which allows genes to be transferred from one organism to another, had been developed in the early 1970's by Herbert W. Boyer of the University of California at San Francisco and Stanley Cohen of Stanford. But there were doubts in the academic and financial communities and in the drug industry whether the technology could be used commercially.
        Mr. Swanson persuaded Dr. Boyer to meet with him for 10 minutes. So taken was Dr. Boyer by the young man's vision and enthusiasm that the meeting stretched to three hours at a local pub.
        ''Here comes this brash young entrepreneur filled with enthusiasm and ideas and ready to go,'' Dr. Boyer recalled. ''I recognized right away that he had the drive and the understanding.''
        The two men started Genentech in April 1976, and it is widely considered the first biotechnology company. Another biotechnology company, the Cetus Corporation, was formed five years earlier, but its focus was not initially on gene-splicing, which is known more formally as recombinant DNA technology.
        Mr. Swanson built a strong scientific team by recruiting from universities. Scientists could publish their work, something most big drug companies were reluctant to allow.
        ''He legitimized the idea that these academics could be participants in a company without compromising their standards,'' said George Rathmann, who co-founded Amgen Inc., another leading biotechnology company, and is now chairman of the Icos Corporation.
        Genentech, based in South San Francisco, fostered an informal atmosphere, with Friday afternoon themed parties known as ho-ho's. On the Hawaiian theme days, Mr. Swanson would attend wearing a grass skirt and dance the hula.
        Still, Mr. Swanson was extremely hard driving and demanding. ''If you told him that doing something violated a law of physics, he'd tell you the law must be wrong and you'd almost believe it,'' said Arthur D. Levinson, the current chairman and chief executive of Genentech.
        The company's aggressive attitude, particularly in marketing its drugs, sometimes generated controversy. Hospitals complained about pressure on them to buy T.P.A. when a similar heart attack drug was available from another company at a far lower price. And in April, Genentech agreed to pay $50 million to settle federal criminal charges that it had marketed human growth hormone for unapproved uses from 1985 to 1994.
        Last month, Genentech agreed to pay $200 million to the University of California at San Francisco to settle a patent infringement lawsuit stemming from the development of human growth hormone in the company's early days. One former company scientist testified at the trial that he had stolen material from the university, though Genentech denied it had used the material in developing its drug.
        In 1990, Genentech agreed to sell 60 percent of its stock to Roche Holding Ltd., the Swiss drug giant, for $2.1 billion. This year, Roche bought the rest of Genentech it did not own but then sold shares to the public again.
        Since retiring from Genentech's board in 1996, Mr. Swanson had invested in start-up companies on his own. He was chairman of Tularik Inc., a biotechnology company planning to sell stock to the public for the first time this week. William J. Rieflin, Tularik's general counsel, said it was not yet clear whether the public offering would be postponed because of Mr. Swanson's death.
        Mr. Swanson was involved in numerous civic and academic activities, serving on various advisory councils at M.I.T., and as a trustee of the San Francisco Ballet and other organizations.
        But friends said he was a private person who took pride in coaching the soccer teams of his two daughters, Katie, 16, and Erica, 11. They and his wife, Judy Church Swanson, survive him, as does his mother, Arline Swanson of Foster City, Calif.
        Friends said that after the diagnosis of a brain tumor a little more than a year ago, Mr. Swanson was very aggressive in seeking treatment. But the type of tumor he had is almost always fatal, they said.
        ''One of the ironies here is he devoted so much of his life to applying this technology to generate medical breakthroughs, drugs that saved countless lives,'' Mr. Levinson said. ''But unfortunately, his wasn't one of them.''
      