
        Marvin Kratter, the New York real estate investor whose holdings once included Ebbets Field (which he eventually replaced with an apartment complex), died on Oct. 24 at a hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was pancreatitis, said his son, Leslie M. Kratter, of Hillsborough, Calif.
        Mr. Kratter's wide-ranging business interests also included ownership or part ownership of the Boston Celtics basketball team, a brewery and a pharmaceutical company. In 1956, he bought the legendary Ebbets Field, home of the Brooklyn Dodgers, from Walter O'Malley, the team's owner.
        He leased Ebbets Field back to Mr. O'Malley. But after Mr. O'Malley moved the team to Los Angeles after the 1957 season, Ebbets Field was demolished, and became the site for a development called Ebbets Field Apartments. It was built under the Mitchell-Lama subsidy program, which gave developers tax breaks and low-interest mortgages as incentives to build middle-class housing.
        The 1,327-apartment complex, which stands on the block bounded by Bedford Avenue, Montgomery Street, McKeever Place and Sullivan Place in Crown Heights, was completed in 1962. It was later sold to a Minneapolis company.
        Mr. Kratter headed a variety of companies, including the Kratter Corporation, National Equities and Countrywide Realty. He was also known for building, in 1961, the Bridge Apartments above the Manhattan entrance to the George Washington Bridge. The four 32-story buildings were among the world's first aluminum-sheathed high-rise structures.
        The bridge project was considered an imaginative use of air rights over a public facility. Air rights were transferred by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to the city, which sold them at auction to the Kratter Corporation.
        Mr. Kratter also developed the St. Tropez, at 340 East 64th Street, one of the first condominium apartment buildings in the city. For a while, he also owned the St. Regis Hotel.
        Mr. Kratter also bought the Knickerbocker Brewery, and his ownership of the Boston Celtics was an effort to promote the beer in New England. He owned the team from 1965 to 1968.
        He then moved to Rancho La Costa, Calif., befriended the singer Steve Lawrence, and recorded a solo album, ''What I Did for Love,'' on the RCA label, using the stage name Mark Matthews.
        He moved to Las Vegas for several years, serving as president of Rom-American Pharmaceuticals. He retired to Del Mar, Calif., where he lived at the time of his death.
        Mr. Kratter was born on Nov. 9, 1915, in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School. He was also a certified public accountant and worked as an accountant at the start of his career.
        He moved to Tucson in the late 1930's, and, in 1945, he started a dude ranch, Rancho del Rio Estates, that went bankrupt in 1949. He also filed for personal bankruptcy in 1953 but quickly recovered financially, moved back to New York and became one of the early practitioners of real estate syndication. He became a millionaire a few years later.
        Mr. Kratter's wife, Lillian, died in 1994. Besides his son Leslie he is survived by a second son, David E. Kratter of Bellevue, Wash.; a daughter, Sherry Santa Cruz of San Diego; a half-brother, Arnold Kratter of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      