
        Dr. Merle E. Frampton, an internationally known leader in the education and rehabilitation of the visually handicapped, died on Dec. 17 in Portland, Ore. He was 95.
        Dr. Frampton, the director of the New York Institute for the Education of the Blind from 1935 to 1971, established many programs that later became commonplace. He organized the first training program for special education at Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1936. Two years later, he opened Camp Wapanacki in Hardwick, Vt., the first camp in the nation for visually impaired children, and the next year he started a program for deaf-blind and multihandicapped blind children.
        In World War II, he was chief of rehabilitation services for the Navy, starting a rehabilitation course to restore the morale of sailors and marines blinded in battle and to retrain them for civilian life. He also organized a victory garden, tended by students, in a plot behind the New York Institute's building in the Bronx.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Frampton, with the institute's athletic director, persuaded Cornell University to contribute two four-oared racing shells so blind oarsmen could compete in the New York Rowing Association's annual Memorial Day regatta. The institute's other athletic activities included wrestling, track and volleyball, played with a ball containing a bell.
        In his long career, Dr. Frampton helped develop state and Federal legislation for the education of the handicapped and helped draft a New York State law for the education of the visually impaired and hearing-impaired.
        He also financed several scholarships from the teaching stipends he received at Columbia University and Hunter College. At Hunter, he organized a department of special education in 1945. After his retirement in 1971, he continued working for better diagnostic programs for handicapped children.
        Dr. Frampton's work with the visually handicapped extended to diverse locations like Arizona, Central and South America, Europe and Asia. He was also a prolific writer on education and rehabilitation, particularly as it applied to the visually impaired. Among his publications were ''Education for the Handicapped'' (1940), ''The School Assembly as an Education Force'' (1943) and ''Forgotten Children'' (1969).
        Dr. Frampton was born in Smithfield, W.Va., on Sept. 15, 1903. He graduated from Boston University in 1927 and received a doctorate from Harvard University in 1934.
        His wife, the former Iris Coldwell, died in 1972. He is survived by two daughters, Iris Muggenthaler of Charlotte, Vt., and Diane Bickford of Portland, and three grandchildren.
      