
        William Eldred Jackson, a New York lawyer with an international clientele that included Nelson A. Rockefeller, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the King of Morocco and Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 80 and also had a home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        The cause was throat cancer, a family spokesman said. He said Mr. Jackson had continued to go to his office until last week.
        Mr. Jackson came to the law as a personal assistant to his father, Robert H. Jackson, an associate justice of the Supreme Court appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        The younger Mr. Jackson, a native of Jamestown, N.Y., was first in his class at St. Albans School in Washington and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1941 from Yale University, where he was vice chairman of The Yale Daily News. He was an editor of the Harvard Law Review and got his L.L.B. there in 1944.
        He then was a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy until 1946. He followed Justice Jackson to Germany when his father, on a leave of absence, was America's chief counsel for the prosecution at the Nuremberg trial of major Nazi war criminals. As a staff member, private secretary and law clerk, William Jackson took part in the interrogation of Hermann Goring, Rudolf Hess and Albert Speer. He was co-editor of the eight volumes of trial evidence printed by the American government.
        In 1947, he joined the Wall Street law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, specializing in civil litigation, including arbitration, as well as antitrust actions and international legal disputes. He became a partner in 1954 and was a consulting partner at his death.
        He was the personal lawyer for Gov. Nelson Rockefeller of New York in 1974, when President Gerald Ford picked Mr. Rockefeller as his vice president after the Watergate scandal; he counseled Mr. Rockefeller at his confirmation hearings.
        Mr. Jackson represented Mrs. Onassis in her negotiations with the Onassis estate after the Greek shipping magnate, Aristotle, her second husband, died in 1975. He also advised Baron Thyssen-Bornemisza, the Swiss industrialist, in the intricate international bargaining before he moved his fabled art collection into its own museum, a stone's throw  from the Prado Museum in Madrid.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Jackson won two landmark Supreme Court cases for the New York Stock Exchange that established guidelines for class-action cases in the securities industry. He was a past vice chairman of the International Court of Arbitration in the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris.
        Mr. Jackson is survived by his wife of 55 years, Nancy Dabney Roosevelt Jackson, a granddaughter of President Theodore Roosevelt; five daughters, Miranda Hook of Fairfield, Conn., Melissa Morgan of Cold Spring Harbor and Melanie Jackson, Melinda Kessler and Marina Jackson, all of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      