
        Datus C. Smith Jr., former director of the Princeton University Press, died on Nov. 17 at the Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Hightstown, N.J.
        Mr. Smith, who was president of the Association of American University Presses from 1947 to 1949, was director of the Princeton Press from 1942 to 1953, when he resigned. Under his directorship, the Princeton Press quadrupled its annual sales of scholarly and scientific books and greatly increased its foreign distribution. The books it published in those years included the first volumes in the multivolume series ''The Papers of Thomas Jefferson'' and Albert Einstein's revised version of ''The Meaning of Relativity.''
        On July 3, 1951, on the eve of the 175th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, Mr. Smith announced that 1,250 educational institutions, public and private libraries, historical societies and individuals had subscribed to ''The Papers of Thomas Jefferson,'' which has been called a monumental scholarly project.
        Twenty-seven volumes of the papers have been published in the chronological volumes, which Mr. Smith began publishing. Five volumes of papers organized by topic have also been published.
        From 1952 to 1967 Mr. Smith was president of Franklin Book Programs, a nonprofit organization promoting book publishing abroad, mainly in Asia and Africa. Later he was also president of the United States Committee for Unicef, a member of the United States National Commission for Unesco and a trustee of the Asia Society.
        His writings include ''The Land and People of Indonesia'' (1961) and ''Books in West Africa'' (1963).
        He was born in Jackson, Mich., graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and received a bachelor's degree in 1929 from Princeton University. He was the editor of the Princeton Alumni Weekly for nine years and assistant editor of the Princeton Press for two years before he became its director.
        He married Dorothy Hunt in 1931. She died in 1973.
        He is survived by two daughters, Sandra Smith Opdycke of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Karen Smith of Geneva; three granddaughters and a great-granddaughter.
      