
        Niccolo Tucci, an author best known for his autobiographical fiction evoking a European childhood and a wonderful and monstrous Russian grandmother, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        Mr. Tucci, the author of four books in English and three in Italian, was a colorful, romantic figure with somewhat long hair, a silk foulard and handmade suits from Huntsman & Sons of London. ''He does resemble an actor,'' his friend Mary McCarthy wrote in an introduction to Mr. Tucci's book ''The Rain Came Last and Other Stories.'' ''But he is also an opera singer, a conductor, a painter of the old school. In any case, a maestro, a virtuoso.'' For many years he was also a contributor to The New Yorker.
        In his writing Mr. Tucci tried to recapture the lost world of childhood, and a lost patrimony. He was born in Lugano, Switzerland, in 1908. His father, Leonardo, was a doctor. His mother, Mary, came from a Russian banking family that had lost its fortune during the Bolshevik Revolution. His parents, Mr. Tucci once wrote, were ''fit to have children, not to tend them.''
        When he was a child, the family moved to a home outside Florence where Mr. Tucci received his early education. He was, he said, ''precociously illiterate.'' Initially, he wanted to be a psychiatrist, but his father wanted him to study law. He managed to learn six languages and spent a year in 1931 at Amherst College as an exchange student.
        He enrolled in a doctoral program at the University of California at Berkeley, but he was, he said, converted to Fascism by the writings of Giovanni Gentile and he returned to Italy.
        Eventually he received a Ph.D. in political science from the University of Florence, writing a thesis in defense of Mussolini's doctrine, and then worked for Mussolini's propaganda ministry, becoming head of a German-language radio station. He translated Mussolini's speeches into German, and was rebuked in 1936 because he had altered one of the texts.
        In 1937 Mr. Tucci traveled to New York as ''a Fascist propagandist,'' as he put it, and lectured on Dante for the Italy-American Society. He  became disillusioned with Fascism and moved to New York permanently in 1938 with his wife, Laura Rusconi, and their infant son, Vieri. The family settled on Cabrini Boulevard in Washington Heights, and Mr. Tucci devoted himself to anti-Fascist propaganda, translating and ghostwriting.
        In 1941 Mr. Tucci took a job in Washington working on Latin American policy for Nelson Rockefeller and writing anti-Fascist articles. But he was disappointed by American politics, too, and left Washington. He later wrote of his disenchantment in the anarchist-leaning magazine ''Politics,'' edited by Dwight Macdonald.
        When Mr. Tucci applied for naturalization as an American citizen, he was turned down because of his early Fascist sympathies and because of  his leftist political views. The historian Gaetano Salvemini drew attention to his case, and after an eight-year lawsuit, citizenship was granted in 1953 in a decision by Judge Jerome Frank of the Circuit Court of New York, who called Mr. Tucci ''a greater friend of Plato than of himself.''
        In 1962 Mr. Tucci published his first novel in English, ''Before My Time.'' ''I was born before my time,'' he wrote. ''When my time came, the place was occupied by someone else; all the good things of life for which I was now fit had suddenly become unfit. It was always too early or too late.''
        At the center of the book is Mr. Tucci's Russian grandmother, known as Grossmamachen, the tyrannical matriarch of a Russian family. Portrayed by Mr. Tucci as both life-giver and destroyer, she  travels with an extensive entourage of servants, including a French master-chef, a German butler, an administrator and her family portraits and icons.
        Helene Cantarella, writing in The New York Times, said ''After a brilliant first chapter which pinpoints with deft if uncharitable wit its cast of characters, the book unfolds with almost Proustian involution.'' She called the novel a ''genuine spellbinder.''
        Next came Mr. Tucci's ''Unfinished Funeral,'' the story of a matriarch named Ermelinda, Duchess of Combon de Triton, Countess of Villa Deati, who ensnares her family in a web of emotional guilt.
        In 1971 ''The Sun and the Moon,'' a semi-autobiographical work about his parents' courtship and marriage, was published. In that book, Mr. Tucci's father is nearly driven mad by his mother-in-law's ways. All three books were edited by Mr. Tucci's son-in-law, Robert Gottlieb, who was an editor at Simon & Schuster and Alfred A. Knopf.
        ''He insisted I marry his editor,'' the writer's daughter, the actress Maria Tucci, said yesterday. The books have been reissued by Moyer Bell Ltd.
        Mr. Tucci also recounted his childhood years and those of his own children in his short stories for The New Yorker, which is how Mr. Gottlieb came to know his future wife, called Bimba in the stories. Along with stories and books, Mr. Tucci wrote a play, ''Posterity for Sale,'' which was produced at the American Place Theater in 1967.
        Mr. Tucci's wife died in 1989. In addition to his son and daughter, he is survived by two grandchildren and his companion, Deborah Pease, all of New York.
        Mr. Tucci won the prestigious Viareggio prize for his collection of stories ''Il Segreto'' (''The Secret''), which were written in Italian. But  when he was asked to list his awards for the Contemporary Authors series, he refused to name the conventional sort. Instead he gave as his ''honors' ''A letter from James Joyce in 1924, praising me for my Italian fairy tales, a letter from E. B. White to William Shawn in 1956, saying: 'One Tucci piece a year, and The New Yorker is in the clear.' ''
        ''First learn to write as if you were already dead,'' Mr. Tucci once wrote in a piece of advice to young writers, ''and then you will discover that you can write as if you were still alive.''
      