
        Rick Danko, a singer and bass player in the Band, revered as one of the most important rock acts of the 1960's and 70's for its work with Bob Dylan and its first albums as a group, died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Marbletown, N.Y. He was 56.
        The cause was unknown, said Dr. Walter Dobushak, the Ulster County medical examiner. He said an autopsy was planned.
        Mr. Danko, who was born in Ontario, left high school at 14 to pursue a career in rock 'n' roll.
        His break came when he was hired three years later by Ronnie Hawkins, a rockabilly pioneer with a ferocious stage show, to replace the bassist in his backing band, the Hawks.
        Mr. Danko met Levon Helm, the senior member of the Hawks and, like Mr. Hawkins, a native of Arkansas, along with three Canadian musicians, Garth Hudson, Robbie Robertson and Richard Manuel.
        They left Mr. Hawkins in 1963 to tour on their own, mining the roots of American music under group names like Levon and the Hawks, the Crackers and the Canadian Squires. After performing on recording sessions for the blues guitarist and singer John Hammond Jr., the group was introduced to Bob Dylan by Mr. Hammond, whose father had signed Mr. Dylan to his first recording contract.
        In 1965 and 1966, the Band toured with Mr. Dylan as he was making his transition from acoustic folk to electric music, enduring boos and catcalls from disapproving folk purists.
        After Mr. Dylan was injured in a motorcycle accident, they spent seven months making music with him in the house known as Big Pink, which Mr. Danko and two other Band members had rented near Woodstock.
        Some of the 100-plus songs they recorded there became part of one of rock music's most legendary bootlegs, known as ''Great White Wonder'' for its plain packaging. The material, in modified form, was officially released years later on Columbia as ''The Basement Tapes.''
        After these recordings, the Band emerged with its first two albums, ''Music From Big Pink'' and ''The Band,'' which rank among rock's seminal recordings. The Band reached into the heart of American music and came out with ready-made classics like ''The Weight'' and ''Up on Cripple Creek.''
        The group reunited with Mr. Dylan in the mid-1970's, documenting its tours with the live album ''Before the Flood'' before breaking up in 1976 with a blowout Thanksgiving concert at the Winterland Ballroom in San Francisco. In addition to performances by Mr. Dylan, Eric Clapton, Neil Young, Joni Mitchell and Van Morrison, the concert featured a reunion with Mr. Hawkins. The concert was documented in a film by Martin Scorsese, ''The Last Waltz.''.
        While a member of the Band, Mr. Danko appeared on albums by Todd Rundgren (''Runt''), Mr. Young (''On the Beach'') and Mr. Clapton (''No Reason to Cry''). After leaving, he recorded a series of solo albums.
        The Band, which was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame five years ago, has had several reunions, without Mr. Robertson; during a tour in 1986, Mr. Manuel hanged himself during a stop in Florida. In 1996, Mr. Danko was found guilty of receiving a package of heroin mailed to him in Japan. He received a two-and-a-half-year suspended sentence.
        This year, Mr. Danko appeared on an album by the Indigo Girls, and also released his first solo album in 10 years, ''Live on Breeze Hill.'' Although colleagues said they had been worried about his health, Mr. Danko had been on tour this month to promote the new album.
        Mr. Danko is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Grafton Danko; a daughter, Lisa, 30, of Petaluma, Calif., from his first marriage, to Grace Seldner; and a stepson, Justin, 28. A son, Eli, from his first marriage, died in 1989.
      