
        Msgr. Stephen J. Kelleher, who gained wide attention in 1968, when, as presiding judge of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York's marriage tribunal, he urged the church to abolish such courts and allow Catholics greater freedom to remarry, died on Dec. 5 at a church residence in Manhattan. He was 84.
        His statement, published as an article in the Jesuit magazine America, appeared as church jurisprudence regarding marriage was undergoing a gradual change, but before those changes were formally incorporated into church law. Since 1983, when the code of canon law was revised, church courts have broadened the grounds on which a marriage may be declared invalid, allowing a larger number of Catholics to wed again in the church.
        Although the church does not recognize divorce (and bars those who have remarried without its permission from receiving communion), its courts can grant annulments, declaring a marriage invalid in a sacramental sense, null from its beginning, for reasons ranging from impotence or coercion to various states of ''psychological incapacity.'' About 60,000 annulments are granted each year.
        But in 1968, when Monsignor Kelleher wrote his article, such decisions were far rarer. In many dioceses, marriage courts handled very few cases. Some canon lawyers even warned that ''a system of underground tribunals'' was developing, as younger priests remarried divorced Catholics without formal permission.
        Monsignor Kelleher wrote that the church's procedures for dealing with failed marriages were outdated and marred by a ''lack of Christian love and compassion.''
        In considering whether a marriage had been consummated, the church placed too much emphasis on the physical dimension of that question, while ignoring the psychological issue of whether ''a substantial, fully personal relationship'' had developed between husband and wife, he said.
        He recommended scrapping the tribunals and allowing Catholics in ''intolerable'' marriages to judge by their own consciences whether they were free before God to remarry. He proposed that the church set up commissions, led by lay people, to guide Catholics in such decisions.
        Monsignor Kelleher brought long experience on church courts to his arguments. He was ordained a priest in 1940, and he received a doctorate in canon law from the Catholic University of America in Washington in 1943. He was appointed that year to the marriage tribunal in New York.
        But after the article appeared, Cardinal Terence J. Cooke, New York's archbishop, removed him from the court and appointed him administrator of a parish in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Monsignor Kelleher took the transfer with good grace, saying the cardinal never tried to prevent him from stating his views. ''We're good friends,'' he said.
        The Rev. David M. O'Connell, president of Catholic University, said in an interview on Friday that what Monsignor Kelleher did ''was bring the whole notion of annulments into the public eye.'' But Father O'Connell added that changes in how church courts deal with annulments took effect fully only after the canon law code was revised.
        Stephen J. Kelleher was born in the Bronx on Aug. 31, 1915, a son of Stephen and Margaret Kelleher. He studied at St. Joseph's Seminary in the Bronx and at the North American College in Rome. From 1959 to 1960, he served as assistant director of the Catholic Near East Welfare Association, and from 1960 to 1962, as a staff member of Pontifical Mission for Palestine, in Beirut, work for which he was honored by King Hussein of Jordan.
        He served the Scarsdale parish until 1972, then was appointed to parishes in Manhattan. He retired in 1990.
        He is survived by three nieces and one nephew.
      