
        Mike Ockrent, an acclaimed British director whose light touch invigorated musicals and plays in London and New York, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53.
        The cause was leukemia, said Robert Lantz, his agent.
        A university-trained physicist who discovered a passion for theater in college, Mr. Ockrent displayed in his work the native curiosity and eye for detail essential to both an artist's and a scientist's calling.
        ''My job,'' he said in 1986, ''is to find something that makes a unified evening with a shape, that goes somewhere, and with characters the audience believes in.''
        It was a formula that Mr. Ockrent constantly sought to reinvent, taking on projects as varied as the 1996 Broadway musical ''Big'' and smaller works like this year's ''La Terrasse'' at Manhattan Theater Club, a well-received French comedy that was his final directing credit.
        His career began in Scotland, where he attended the University of Edinburgh and made his professional directing debut at a small theater in Perth. There, Mr. Ockrent first made a splash with an award-winning production of ''Hedda Gabler.'' At age 27 he became the artistic director of the well-regarded Traverse Theater in Edinburgh.
        In the late 1970's, Mr. Ockrent moved to London, where he promptly made a mark with his direction of ''Once a Catholic,'' a convent-school comedy by Mary O'Malley. The play would be the first of several hit comedies he directed in London, including ''Educating Rita'' and Peter Nichols's ''Passion Play.''
        ''Once a Catholic'' did not do well in an American transfer, but Mr. Ockrent's second shot at New York proved to be his breakthrough. It was ''Me and My Girl,'' a little-known 1937 musical comedy about a Cockney wiseacre who turns out to be an earl. Mr. Ockrent resurrected the script with the writer Stephen Fry, and after an award-laden run on the West End transferred the play to Broadway in August 1986. Frank Rich wrote in The New York Times that the show ''uncorked the innocence of the old-fashioned musical comedy so ingeniously that for once a theatergoer is actually sucked directly into that sunny past.''
        The revival, which starred Robert Lindsay and Maryann Plunkett, was nominated for 13 Tony awards, including three for Mr. Ockrent, for his direction and work on the score and the book. It won three -- but none for Mr. Ockrent -- and ran for three and a half years on Broadway.
        A year later, Mr. Ockrent returned to London to stage the West End premiere of ''Follies,'' a 1971 hit by Stephen Sondheim. Several Laurence Olivier awards followed.
        In 1992, Mr. Ockrent teamed with the playwright Ken Ludwig on ''Crazy for You,'' a new musical formulated from songs by George and Ira Gershwin and the filament of the plot from the Gershwins' musical ''Girl Crazy.'' It won the Tony for best musical and earned Mr. Ockrent another Tony nomination for directing.
        The show was also part of a courtship dance between Mr. Ockrent and the choreographer Susan Stroman, with whom he would also work on ''Big'' and ''A Christmas Carol,'' the musical adaptation of Dickens that is now making its sixth seasonal appearance at the Theater at Madison Square Garden. The couple were married on New Year's Day 1996.
        Last night, at the end of Ms. Stroman's current production, ''Contact,'' at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, cast members recounted the story of their meeting and then dedicated the evening's performance to Mr. Ockrent.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Ockrent is survived by two stepchildren, Natasha and Ben Stroman.
        Correction:  December 4, 1999, Saturday  An obituary of the director Mike Ockrent yesterday misstated the surname of his stepchildren, who survive him along with his wife, the choreographer Susan Stroman. They are Natasha and Ben Ockrent, not Stroman.
        Correction:  December 7, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary of the director Mike Ockrent on Friday misstated the surname of the children who survive along with his wife, the choreographer Susan Stroman. And a correction in this space on Saturday misstated their relationship to Mr. Ockrent. The children are Natasha and Ben Ockrent, not Stroman. They are his children from a former marriage, not stepchildren.
      