
        Whitey Kurowski, who surmounted a severe arm injury as a youngster and became one of the major leagues' top third basemen of the 1940's and a World Series hero for the St. Louis Cardinals, died last Thursday at a physical rehabilitation center in Shillington, Pa. He was 81.
        Kurowski, who lived in Shillington, had been in failing health since suffering a stroke after heart bypass surgery in July, according to his wife, Joan.
        On the afternoon of Oct. 5, 1942, a remarkable stretch of World Series success for the Yankees came to an end with one swing by a rookie infielder. George (Whitey) Kurowski's two-run home run off Red Ruffing into the left-field stands at Yankee Stadium in the ninth inning of Game 5 propelled the Cardinals to a 4-2 victory and a Series title, the first time the Yankees had been beaten in nine trips to the Series since they were defeated by the Cards in 1926.
        That Kurowski was even in a major league uniform defied the odds. When he was growing up in Reading, Pa., he fell off a fence and landed in broken glass, severely cutting his right arm. Two years later, he began suffering severe pain and was found to have developed osteomyelitis, a bone inflammation. Three inches of bone above his wrist were surgically removed, leaving the arm weakened and with an unnatural bend. He strengthened his arm muscles as he embarked on a baseball career, but his right arm, his throwing arm, had become shorter than his left.
        Kurowski had to surmount emotional trauma as well. His brother Frank was killed in a mine accident in 1937, just before Kurowski left for his first minor league season, and his father died of a heart attack just as he was breaking into the Cardinal lineup in 1942.
        He had an outstanding career over nine major league seasons, all with the Cardinals. Kurowski played on four World Series teams, was named a National League All-Star four times, batted over .300 three times and finished with a career batting average of .286. He twice led the league's third basemen in fielding. His best season was 1947, when he hit .310 with 27 home runs, 104 runs batted in and 108 runs scored.
        The high point of his career was that World Series-winning home run.
        ''We nearly killed Whitey when he crossed the plate,'' the star Cardinal shortstop Marty Marion recalled. ''I remember tackling him, and we mobbed him until he begged for us to let him go.''
        In the clubhouse, Kurowski was hoisted on his teammates' shoulders and then did something almost as audacious as sinking the Yankees: he mussed the white hair of the dignified and stern baseball commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis. ''I messed up his hair pretty good, and that was a first,'' Kurowski remembered.
        Kurowski retired after the 1949 season and then managed in the minors.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, George Jr. and James; two daughters, Joanne Osterman and Georgeann Waldbiesser; a brother, Edmund; two sisters, Bernice Kurowski and Josephine Smith; nine grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
        After his World Series-winning homer, the hometown fans in Reading gave Kurowski a parade. But his off-season celebrity status was otherwise limited to one radio guest spot, with the band leader Fred Waring and his Pennsylvanians. As Kurowski recalled it, ''I got $25 and a record album.''
      