
        John N. Popham IV, who drove a green Buick 50,000 miles a year across the American South as the first northern newspaper correspondent to cover the region regularly, died in a Chattanooga hospital on Sunday. He was 89.
        Mr. Popham cultivated all kinds of Southerners, from governors to field hands, from shade-tree mechanics to college presidents, to tell their stories in The New York Times, for which he worked for 25 years, until 1958. He later edited The Chattanooga Times for 20 years.
        As the civil rights struggle exploded, his dispatches from Little Rock, Ark., and the other early flash points informed readers of the mounting racial turmoil.
        Will Campbell, who was chaplain at the University of Mississippi and is now a writer, remembered his customary greeting, on arriving in yet another Southern hamlet. ''What's going on, sweetheart?'' he would say. ''I'm just wandering around taking the temperature here and there.''
        He also brought common sense to the increasingly tense civil rights story. Mr. Campbell remembered when Mr. Popham was arrested at a gathering of blacks in the early 1950's. ''Are you white or black?'' a police officer demanded.
        Mr. Popham answered, ''If you can't tell the difference, what difference does it make?''
        Harrison E. Salisbury in his 1980 book, ''Without Fear or Favor,''  wrote: ''No one did what Popham did, and no one would do it afterward. His assignment evidenced a singular perception of the South, its problems and their importance to the nation.''
        Ruth Holmberg, who was publisher of The Chattanooga Times, met Mr. Popham, known as Pops or Johnny, 50 years ago. She remembers him as almost a Damon Runyon caricature of a newspaperman, always with a hat on, but the farthest thing from a Yankee, with his Tidewater Virginia speech. His accent was so deep and his delivery so fast that it baffled both Northerners and deep Southerners. Claude F. Sitton, who succeeded Mr. Popham as the Times's Southern correspondent, said his delivery approximated nothing so much as ''dollops of sorghum syrup spat from a Gatling gun.''
        John N. Popham IV was born in Fredricksburg, Va., and moved around the world with his father, a marine captain. He graduated from Fordham University and worked for The Brooklyn Eagle before joining The Times in the early 1930's.
        He enlisted in the Marines in 1942, and wrote stories for The Times during his tour of duty in the Pacific. He left the Marines as a captain with a Bronze Star and returned to work for The Times full time.
        In 1947, Turner Catledge, a Mississippian who was then assistant managing editor, asked Mr. Popham to cover the South, from the Potomac to central Texas. Gene Roberts, who covered the region later for The New York Times and still later was its managing editor, said Mr. Catledge persuaded Times managers to assign Mr. Popham only on the conditions that he drive, not fly, from place to place and that he keep an office at the Chattanooga Times.
        The result was a free-wheeling sort of reporting, with Mr. Popham driving vast distances from friend to friend. He sent out 100 boxes of New Orleans pralines each year at his own expense, and his vast network of contacts included old-school connections and distant relatives.
        In 1956, under Mr. Popham's direction, The Times published a 50,000-word eight-page report on the implications of racial integration in the wake of the Brown v. Board of Education school desegregation decision of 1954. In the report he predicted difficulties, but said most Southern leaders had reached the conclusion that integration was inevitable.
        Mr. Popham and Mr. Catledge, then managing editor, later came to believe the report was too optimistic. However, Mr. Roberts said yesterday: ''I'm not sure for the particular moment in time he wasn't right. A lot of people who started off moderate switched over to a more hard-line segregationist position as the pressures built.''
        Mr. Popham was managing editor of the Chattanooga Times until 1977. After he retired, he commuted hundreds of miles a week from Chattanooga to Atlanta to attend John Marshall Law School, where he earned a law degree at 72.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Frances Evans; a son, John N. Popham V of Nashville; a daughter, Hilary Popham of Atlanta; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Popham's friendships helped both him and other reporters cover incendiary events. When whites were charged with killing Emmett Till after reports that he had made sexual remarks about a white woman in 1955, the trial judge in Sumner, Miss., asked him to act as go-between with the national press corps.
        David Halberstam, in his 1993 book ''The Fifties,'' recounts that a week before the trial, Mr. Popham had called a prominent businessman who was a fraternity brother of the judge and dined with him in Oxford, Miss. Afterward, the fraternity brother assured the judge that the Times reporter could be trusted, and Mr. Popham arranged lodging for out-of-town reporters, both black and white, at a safe distance from the trial.
        Correction:  December 15, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about John N. Popham, a former correspondent for The New York Times and retired managing editor of The Chattanooga Times, rendered his full name incorrectly in some copies. He was John N. Popham III, not IV.
      