
        Nunzio Joseph Palladino, a retired nuclear engineer who steered the Nuclear Regulatory Commission through some rough years after the nuclear power accident at Three Mile Island near Harrisburg, Pa., died on Sunday at Centre Community Hospital in College Park, Pa. He was 83 and lived in College Park.
        He suffered a long illness, said officials at Pennsylvania State University, where he was dean emeritus of engineering.
        The failure of a cooling valve to open allowed the radioactive core of a reactor at Three Mile Island to overheat on March 28, 1979, causing thousands of people to flee in fear of a nuclear meltdown. Fuel rods melted, spilling their radioactive contents into a containment structure, where the radiation was largely confined.
        The crisis at Three Mile Island lasted 12 days, and the accident took more than a decade to clean up, but there were no casualties.
        An investigation found that the accident had been caused by human, mechanical and design failures. The accident led to changes in reactor licensing and personnel training, as well as in the structure and function of the nuclear commission.
        In 1981, President Ronald Reagan chose Mr. Palladino as the commission's chairman to put the changes into effect; he served until 1986.
        Mr. Palladino's specialties were the thermal and hydraulic problems encountered in the design of nuclear reactor cores and the mechanical problems associated with such designs. His expertise made him a natural for coping with the aftermath of Three Mile Island.
        Mr. Palladino was born in Allentown, Pa., graduated from Lehigh University in 1938 and received a master's degree in mechanical engineering from Lehigh in 1939. He then became an engineer at the Westinghouse Electric Company near Philadelphia, designing steam turbines. In World War II he was a captain in the Army and served in Europe.
        After the war, Mr. Palladino worked as a reactor designer and manager at Oak Ridge National Laboratory, the Argonne National Laboratory and the reactor design division of Westinghouse, where he headed a group that designed the reactor for the world's first nuclear submarine, the Nautilus. He joined the Penn State faculty in 1959.
        Mr. Palladino was the first chairman of the university's department of nuclear engineering and was dean of the College of Engineering from 1966 to 1981, when he became the chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
        He was the author of articles in professional journals and, in retirement, served as a member of the National Nuclear Accrediting Board for several years.
        Mr. Palladino is survived by his wife of 54 years, Virginia Marchetto Palladino; three daughters, Linda S. Oswald of Somers, Conn., Lisa A. Ghaner of Elisabethtown, Pa., and Cynthia M. Maund of State College; a sister, Judge Madaline Palladino of Allentown; a brother, Robert, of Chambersburg, Pa., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 20, 1999, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Nunzio J. Palladino, former chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, misstated his hometown and location of the hospital where he died. It is State College, Pa., not College Park.
      