
        Douglas Leigh, the dazzling impresario of electrical splendor who festooned Broadway with miles of electrical signs, a gargantuan steaming coffee pot and the celebrated giant Camel sign that puffed smoke rings, died Tuesday in a Manhattan hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach.
        Mr. Leigh was also the man who lit up Manhattan's skyscrapers, beginning with the Empire State Building in 1976, and who made the city's fountains flow red, white and blue for that year's Democratic National Convention.
        Mr. Leigh, an Alabama native, hit town at 28 in a secondhand Ford with $9 in his pocket and parlayed a soft-spoken sales ability and a flair for the fabulous into the multi-million-dollar business of designing and erecting breathtaking signs. The A.&P. coffee cup, 25 feet high and steaming, was his. So was the Old Gold sign with its 4,100 bulbs. The Bromo-Seltzer sign with actual effervescent action? You bet.
        Mr. Leigh gave the Great White Way its legendary Camel smoke ring sign, which lasted for 26 years and was duplicated in 22 other cities. He created the Super Suds detergent sign with 3,000 large ''floating'' soap bubbles per minute. The 120-foot Pepsi-Cola waterfall was indisputably his.
        ''I'm an idea man, a concept guy,'' he said last year, still very much on the job at Donald Trump's building at 40 Wall Street, one of Manhattan's tallest structures.
        In addition to the Empire State Building, Mr. Leigh splashed dazzling lights at the summits of other skyscrapers, including Citicorp, the Helmsley and Crown Buildings and the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Mr. Leigh became as dominant in the new business of lighting buildings as he had been in designing spectacular signs.
        His life was an exuberant exercise in creative attention-getting. He owned and operated blimps on both the East and West Coasts used to advertise Wonder Bread, Mobil gasoline and other products. In the 1960's, he owned One Times Square, the building where the ball is dropped on New Year's Eve. He stripped off the marble facade and envisioned the building as what it now is, a showcase for signs.
        In 1976, he was official decorator for the Democratic Party's presidential convention, causing Manhattan's fountains to flow in red, white and blue, among other effects. In 1984, he installed a two-and-a-half-story snowflake with 3,000 lights above Fifth Avenue at 57th Street.
        His work extended beyond New York, and in 1987, he was hired by Cincinnati to develop a master plan for lighting that city. He also dealt with such seemingly prosaic jobs as handling the advertising on New York City buses.
        Mr. Leigh was the spiritual pioneer of today's Times Square, where giant neon displays are required on new buildings.
        By 1936, a two-story building was erected on Broadway between 44th and 45th Streets with a sign that more than doubled the height of the structure. The huge sign, the work of the designer Dorothy Shepard, featured a fish blowing bubbles, advertising Wrigley's Spearmint gum. A nightclub in the building lasted only a few years, and in 1940, Bond Clothes took over much of the space.
        Eight years later, Mr. Leigh persuaded Bond to put up a $350,000 montage rising 90 feet above the entire length of the store. At the base of the Bond sign was an electric news zipper, about five feet high, running along the entire facade. In Mr. Leigh's design, twin 50-foot-high figures, one male and one female, flanked a waterfall 27 feet high and 120 feet long. Strands of electric lights seemed to clothe the chunky classical figures at night, but by day they appeared naked.
        ''No one has yet equaled the colossal exhortations of Douglas Leigh's 1948 Bond clothing sign,'' Christopher Gray wrote in The New York Times in 1997. ''It lasted only six years, but some fragments still peep out from under the latest advertisements.''
        Mr. Leigh was born in Anniston, Ala., and began selling things as a youth. He attended the University of Florida, where he bought all the advertising space in the yearbook for $2,000, on credit. He resold the space for $7,000, and dropped out.
        He arrived in New York in the early 1930's, and in 1933 scored his first success. He secured the right to put up a sign at Fordham Road and Crotona Avenue in the Bronx. He then persuaded the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South to put up a billboard there. He got $50 a month, enough to eat regularly at the Automat, as well as stationery with the hotel's prestigious address.
        Later in 1933, he came up with the idea for the steaming coffee cup, 15 feet wide, at the southeast corner of 47th Street and Seventh Avenue. He began to create a comfortable niche. Within a few years he had thrown switches in Times Square to illuminate a blinking penguin for Kool cigarettes, a clown tossing quoits in the shape of the three-ring Ballantine Beer logo, and an animated cartoon for Old Gold cigarettes.
        In June 1941, E. J. Kahn Jr. profiled him in The New Yorker and said he had been responsible in the past seven years for 32 large signs. ''If New York is ever thoroughly blacked out,'' Mr. Kahn said in reference to a possible wartime blackout, ''no man will take it harder.''
        The next year, such blackouts began, but they only stimulated Mr. Leigh's imagination. He did not need lights to develop the Camel billboard, at the southeast corner of 44th Street and Broadway, which puffed out five-foot-wide rings of smoke.
        Mr. Leigh was a smallish, soft-spoken sort who said, ''yes, sir'' and ''no, sir'' to business executives and laborers alike. The New Yorker described him as a ''Princeton freshman.'' He dressed in tweeds and bow ties and wore a fresh boutonniere of cornflowers.
        He is survived by his wife, Elsie; two daughters, Lucinda Leigh of Phoenix, and Heidi Duke of San Diego; four stepchildren, Amanda Borghese of Short Hills, N.J.; Pidgie Chapman of Pinehurst, N.C.; Prudence Blair of Summit, N.J.; and Winthrop Lewis of Singapore; and eight grandchildren.
        His visions were legendary. In 1944, he told The New York Times that he foresaw a postwar Times Square full of three-dimensional signs in softer colors; a colossal, translucent glass of orange juice and a huge bottle of perfume with scent puffed out on the street.
        He saw wind machines blowing trees and flags, searchlights playing on blimps, artificial snow and fog; the smells of coffee, cocoa and beer, even live giraffes and other animals. Times Square would be a spectacular performance event in the service of advertising.
        He also thought the Empire State Building would make a dandy glowing cigarette for Lucky Strike.
      