
        Peter G. La Haye Sr., a leader in developing technologies to help people see better, died Sunday when his private plane crashed in Pennsylvania on its way to New Jersey from Seattle. Mr. La Haye was 59 and lived in Medina, Wash.
        Mr. La Haye was on his way to a board meeting in New York of Orbis International, a charity group that promotes eye health in developing nations, a spokesman for Mr. La Haye said yesterday. The cause of the crash, which also killed the two pilots on board, is unclear.
        Born in Montreal, Mr. La Haye dropped out of high school but went on to help pioneer the development of plastic lenses for people suffering from cataract diseases, to develop dietary supplements for people with eye diseases and to develop stick-on magnifying lenses for sunglasses.
        Mr. La Haye's ventures made him wealthy. Earlier this year, he attracted national media attention when he put his waterfront estate -- a quarter-mile from that of William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft -- up for sale for $45 million, one of the highest prices asked for a home in the United States. The property remains on the market.
        But Mr. La Haye's roots were more humble. After leaving high school and serving briefly in the Marine Corps, Mr. La Haye moved to Los Angeles in the late 1950's.
        While working in a gas station, Mr. La Haye lobbied hard for a job at Bell & Howell, the optical and information technology company.
        ''They got so tired of seeing me, they hired me,'' Mr. La Haye told The Puget Sound Business Journal in 1996.
        After a series of jobs, including a position as a production manager at Xerox, Mr. La Haye struck out on his own in the early 1970's, and in 1973 began developing lenses to be implanted in cataract patients. By the late 1970's, his company, Iolab, controlled almost 50 percent of the global market for such lenses and Mr. La Haye sold the company to Johnson & Johnson in 1980.
        A spokesman for Mr. La Haye declined to comment on the value of that deal.
        After selling Iolab, Mr. La Haye retired from business and moved from California to Washington, where he could park his boat in front of his house.
        But in 1986, prompted largely by tales from missionaries who had worked with cataract patients in Ethiopia and Pakistan, he founded La Haye Laboratories. The laboratories have developed anti-oxidant supplements for people with degenerative eye diseases under the slogan ''Promotes Healthy Eyes.'' That product line was sold to an affiliate of Nestle S.A. last year.
        In 1995, Mr. La Haye founded another company, Neoptx, which makes removable reading lenses for sunglasses and diving masks.
        Mr. La Haye is survived by his mother, Martha Sonois, of Sherbrooke, Quebec; his wife, Sandy; three brothers, Paul, of Kennebunk, Me.; Bernard, of Montreal; and Richard, of St. Bruno, Quebec; a sister, Monique Deroches, of Sherbrooke; two sons, Peter Jr., and Derrick, both of the Seattle area; one daughter, Kristine La Haye Wood, of the Seattle area; and seven grandchildren.
      