
        Prof. Donald Fraser Tapley, dean of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons during 10 years of robust growth, died on Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 72 and lived in Palisades and Hamden, N.Y.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, the university reported.
        Dr. Tapley led the college from 1973 to 1984. At his death he was alumni professor of medicine and senior deputy vice president at Columbia's Health Science Division.
        Under his stewardship, the endowment of the college rose to more than $160 million from $78 million, federal financing for research doubled, and the institution's international reputation grew accordingly.
        Dr. Tapley recruited all but one chairman of the college's basic science departments, along with fresh leadership for the School of Public Health and the School of Nursing.
        He raised funds for student scholarships and helped carry out the planning for what has become New York City's first research park, the Audubon Biomedical Science and Technology Park at Columbia.
        Dr. Tapley was medical editor of ''The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons Complete Home Medical Guide,'' issued by Crown Publishers in 1984, with a third revised edition in 1995. Companion guides, written and edited by Columbia specialists, were published on pregnancy (1988), early child care (1990), mental health (1992) and dental health (1997); the books' proceeds are earmarked for the college's scholarship funds.
        Dr. Tapley's own specialty was endocrinology and he published many papers on the topic, with special emphasis on the role of hormones of the thyroid gland.
        Donald Tapley was born in Woodstock, New Brunswick, and graduated in 1948 from Acadia University in Wolfville, Nova Scotia. He received his medical degree from the University of Chicago in 1952, the year he first established ties to Columbia as an intern at Presbyterian Hospital.
        He undertook further studies at Johns Hopkins University and Oxford University. At Columbia he steadily rose through the ranks, to attending physician and professor of medicine in 1972. He was named acting dean in 1973, and dean the following year.
        He supported the Morris-Jumel Mansion, a museum in Manhattan's oldest remaining house, and served as its trustee and treasurer. He also was a board member of Bassett Healthcare of Cooperstown, N.Y., O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y., and Hudson Riverkeeper, an environmental watchdog program.
        Dr. Tapley is survived by his wife of 42 years, Caroline Southall Tapley; three daughters, Kate, of Washington, Elisabeth, of Tappan, N.Y., and Sarah T. Banks of South Nyack, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
      