
        Grover Washington Jr., the jazz saxophonist and composer who moved easily between mainstream jazz and pop fusions, died Friday night in New York City after taping four songs for a television show. He was 56 years old, and had lived in Philadelphia.
        Mr. Washington was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on West 59th Street following his collapse after he performed songs for ''The Saturday Early Show'' on CBS. He died of an apparent heart attack, said Patricia Mannino, the office manager of Mr. Washington's Philadelphia record company, G W Jr. Music Inc.
        Mr. Washington played tenor, alto and soprano saxophones with a suave tone and nimble fingers; he would state his melodies and then send runs and ornaments spiraling around them. While jazz critics found most of his music too simplistic, he was one of the most commercially successful saxophonists on record. Steeped in rhythm-and-blues, blues and jazz, he was a major influence on current pop-jazz performers like Kenny G. ''Prime Cuts,'' a collection of Mr. Washington's pop-jazz hits, was released two weeks ago, and a classical album he recently completed will be released shortly,  Ms. Mannino said.
        Mr. Washington was born on December 12, 1943, in Buffalo. His father was a tenor saxophonist and his mother sang in a choir. He started playing the saxophone when he was 10. He attended Temple University's School of Music and the Wurlitzer School of Music.
        Mr. Washington spent his musical apprenticeship on the rhythm-and-blues circuit, working with bands and organ trios. He left school at 16 to join the Four Clefs, a group from Columbus, Ohio. When the group broke up in 1963, he worked with the organist Keith McAllister, then spent two years in the Army. Stationed at Fort Dix in New Jersey, he was a member of the 19th Army Band, while he continued to play jazz engagements in Philadelphia and New York City. He played with Don Gardener's Sonotones from 1967 to 1968, and went on to work with the organists Charles Earland and Johnny Hammond on Prestige Records.
        Mr. Washington's big break came in 1971, when the producer Creed Taylor commissioned pop-funk arrangements to feature the alto saxophonist Hank Crawford. When Mr. Crawford failed to show up for the recording session, Mr. Washington was his replacement. The resulting album, ''Inner City Blues,'' sold hundreds of thousands of copies and helped launch Mr. Washington's solo career. On the Kudu label and Mr. Taylor's CTI label, Mr. Washington worked with the pianist Randy Weston and Bob James and the arranger Don Sebesky.
        Mr. Washington released about 30 albums as a leader; six were gold, selling more than 500,000 copies: ''Come Morning,'' ''Mr. Magic,'' ''Winelight,'' ''The Best is Yet to Come,'' ''Then and Now,'' and ''Time Out of Mind.'' He won a Grammy Award for best fusion jazz performance in 1981 for his million-selling album, ''Winelight,'' which included the hit single ''Just the Two of Us,'' with Bill Withers.
        Robert Palmer of The New York Times called Mr. Washington ''one of the most successful exponents of pop-jazz'' in a 1981 article. ''He stretches his tunes with extended improvisations, and he exercises an impressive degree of control over the development of each performance in terms of drama and dynamics,'' Mr. Palmer wrote.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Washington made forays back into the jazz mainstream, working with the pianists Herbie Hancock and Tommy Flanagan on a 1988 album, ''Then and Now.'' Mr. Washington also produced three albums for the group Pieces of a Dream, and the first album of music from ''The Cosby Show.''
        ''There's a record player playing in here all the time,'' Mr. Washington said, pointing to his head in a 1989 interview with the Associated Press. ''I'm listening to everything. The screech of brakes. Three or four people walking and you can hear their heels clicking. Railroad tracks.''
        A resident of Philadelphia for more than 30 years, Mr. Washington was a great fan of the Philadelphia 76ers and dedicated a song on ''Winelight'' to Julius Erving. He occasionally played the national anthem before 76ers and Philadelphia Eagles games.
        In 1996 he played at President Clinton's 50th birthday celebration at Radio City Music Hall, and played in a jazz and blues jam with the president in 1993, along with jazz greats Herbie Hancock and Winton Marsalis. ''Grover Washington was as versatile as any jazz musician in America, moving with ease and fluency from vintage jazz to funk, and from gospel to blues to pop,'' Mr. Clinton said yesterday. '' 'I want to be able to visit any genre,' he once said, 'and converse there with my horn.' Grover Washington did exactly that, and beautifully,'' the president added.
        He is survived by his wife, Christine Washington, of Philadelphia, a son, Grover Washington III, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Shana Washington of Philadelphia.
      