
        Edmond J. Safra, the banker and philanthropist who died in an apparent arson at his Monaco penthouse today, built a vast banking group with Wall Street hustle and old world conservatism.
        His death came only a few weeks after he reached a turning point in his tumultuous career, when he agreed after months of negotiations to sell his banking businesses, including Republic National Bank of New York, to HSBC Holdings, the biggest British banking company, for $9.9 billion.
        Under the agreement, Mr. Safra, 67, who suffered from Parkinson's disease and planned to retire, was to get a payout of $2.3 billion.
        The deal to sell Mr. Safra's Republic New York Corporation and Safra Republic Holdings marked the end of independence for a banking business founded more than three decades ago by Mr. Safra, an enduring figure in the banking world.
        Mr. Safra started Republic in 1966 in a townhouse just south of the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue. But he suffered recently from Parkinson's disease, a neurological disorder, and there was growing speculation that he would sell.
        In the early years, Mr. Safra built his business largely on wealthy international banking clients, many of whom were Middle Eastern Jews who fled Arab countries after the creation of the state of Israel. With a warm and compelling wit, he made confidentiality and cautious dealing hallmarks of his business.
        His opponents, and they were many, accused him of dealing in dirty money, the proceeds of arms trading and drug trafficking.
        But in 1989 the American Express Company was forced to offer a public apology and donate $8 million to charities designated by Mr. Safra, in an admission that company executives had organized a campaign to malign him.
        To his admirers, and they were numerous in the United States and elsewhere, he was an excellent banker with a compelling intelligence who was dedicated to Jewish causes and poured the proceeds of his banking into numerous charities dear to him and his family.
        In a statement today, Sir John R. H. Bond, group chairman of HSBC, said the bank ''will uphold the banking tradition and integrity which were the hallmarks of Edmond's life.''
        In the past, Mr. Safra has been praised by influential figures, including Henry A. Kissinger and Elie Wiesel. He was in demand as a counselor and sat on the international advisory board of Harvard University.
        The son of a banker of Syrian origin, Edmond Jacob Safra was born in Beirut on Aug. 6, 1932. At the age of 16, he joined the family banking business, which stretched back a century and was involved in financing the Ottoman Empire's caravan trade. He was involved in the precious metals and foreign exchange activities that benefited from the post-World War II revival of international commerce.
        In 1952 his father, Jacob E. Safra, moved the family to Brazil, where three years later the family founded a bank in Sao Paulo that later became Banco Safra S.A., which is still managed by Mr. Safra's brothers, Moishe and Joseph.
        Moving to expand the family business abroad, Mr. Safra migrated in 1956 to Geneva. Much of his activity in the following years was based on the extraordinary growth of the Trade Development Bank, which he founded with roughly $1 million of his own money, to tap the Swiss private banking market. In 1983, when Trade Development had deposits of almost $5 billion, he sold it to American Express for $550 million.
        When American Express executives became convinced that Mr. Safra had violated a pledge not to start a competing bank business for three years, they hired detectives to track down rumors that he was involved in the Iran-contra scandal and that his banks were laundering drug money.
        None of the rumors proved true, but the allegations began surfacing in newspaper articles in various countries. In July 1989, American Express agreed as part of a legal settlement to issue a public apology to Mr. Safra and to donate $8 million to charities of his choice.
        By the late 1980's, Mr. Safra was again active in private banking, erecting a banking empire around the Republic New York Corporation and an affiliated company, Safra Republic Holdings, the parents of banks serving clients around the world.
        Republic came to dominate some of the more exotic fringes of banking. While its heritage was in the world of international private banking, sheltering the fortunes of multimillionaires, it was equally a leader in precious metals and securities trading.
        For Mr. Safra personal banking was a way of life. A banker who once visited his home in Monaco said it was ''like a doctor's waiting room,'' with clients lined up.
        Though described by friends and associates as witty and warm, Mr. Safra avoided publicity, agreeing for the first time to reverse his policy in 1988, when he sought to raise new equity for Safra Republic Holdings.
        ''I try to remain unknown as much as possible,'' he told one of four reporters he received individually, accompanied by a senior bank associate and a public relations consultant.
        Expanding on his austere philosophy of banking, Mr. Safra listed the ingredients of his success: ''security, seriousness, hard work, careful lending, controlling expenses.''
        ''You can take a chance in life, but not with a bank,'' he said. ''A bank is not a playground. Banking is conservatism. And it has been the same for a few thousand years.''
        Mr. Safra kept homes in Geneva, Monaco, New York and Paris.
        A passionate family man, Mr. Safra was a contributor to scholarly institutions and charitable causes.
        When it was decided to build a Holocaust museum in New York, which opened in 1997, Mr. Safra pledged $1 million. He financed chairs for Sephardic studies at Yeshiva University in New York and at Harvard, in Latin American studies at Harvard and in banking studies at the University of Pennsylvania.
        In 1998 Mr. Safra's banking empire was shaken by severe economic downturns in several parts of the world, including Russia, where Republic New York Corporation lost $190 million in trading losses in one quarter because of errant bets on Russian securities.
        It was also in 1998 that Republic made a report to the F.B.I. that began an investigation into the possibility of a vast Russian money laundering that came to focus on the Bank of New York.
        This March, Republic New York announced that it planned to eliminate hundreds of jobs, about 7 percent of the total, and reorganize to refocus on profitable businesses. About two months later, the sale to HSBC was announced.
        Mr. Safra is survived by his wife, Lily, and her two children from a previous marriage, Adriana and Eduardo, and by his brothers, Moise and Joseph, of Brazil, and sisters, Arlette Friedler of Belgium and Gaby Safra and Huguette Michaan of Brazil.
      