
        Jurgen Moser, one of the world's leading mathematicians who helped develop an influential theory for analyzing the orbits of planets, asteroids and other celestial bodies, died of prostate cancer on Friday in a hospital in Schwerzenbach, Switzerland. He was 71.
        Like many other talented young Germans who came of age after Germany's glittering scientific establishment was gutted by the Nazis, Dr. Moser emigrated to the United States in the mid-1950's, soon after completing his doctorate. He spent most of his career at the New York University Courant Institute, where he served for three years as director.
        After nearly 25 years in this country, Dr. Moser returned to Europe in 1980 to rebuild the once-stellar Mathematics Research Institute at the Federal Institute of Technology, Switzerland's equivalent of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Much of Dr. Moser's research was inspired by problems that arose in physics. A lifelong astronomy enthusiast who as a boy built model gliders and as a father made boats for his children, Dr. Moser was fascinated by problems involving the stability of motion, or lack of it. He is best known for a fundamental contribution to celestial mechanics, the Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser theory, that he published, in an article that appeared in a German journal in 1962.
        The problem that Dr. Moser tackled, the stability of the solar system, was one that had tantalized scientists for centuries. Will the solar system remain as it is for all eternity, or will Jupiter one day collide with Mars and Venus drift into the Sun? Isaac Newton made his contribution to the invention of calculus while trying to prove that celestial bodies always travel in elliptical orbits.
        But Newton's proof applied only to systems that consisted of two bodies, say Earth and the Sun. Nearly every leading 18th-century mathematician took up the problem of systems with more elements, a problem that involved both stable movements and unpredictable, chaotic ones, but by the end of the 19th century, the celebrated French mathematician Poincare had concluded that the problem was essentially insoluble.
        The K.A.M. theory addresses the following question: What happens to well-behaved elliptical orbits if one tries to take into account the small perturbations resulting from the gravitational pull of smaller or more distant planets? In 1954, the Russian mathematician, Andrei N. Kolmogorov, announced that he had found the answer, arguing that if the disturbance was sufficiently small, many but not all of the orderly motions would survive, with orderly orbits coexisting alongside chaotic ones. But Kolmogorov outlined a general theory without supplying complete proof. His student, V. I. Arnold, proved one case; Dr. Moser proved another.
        Dr. Moser was just 27 and completely unknown when he was asked to summarize Kolmogorov's argument for a mathematics journal and discovered a critical gap in the Russian's argument. It took him several years to produce the result that filled that gap. The result created an immediate sensation.
        ''The wonderful thing is that K.A.M. theory also applies to airplane dynamics, submarine dynamics, automobile dynamics; in fact, practically any dynamical system described by Newton's laws.'' said Philip Holmes, an applied mathematician at Princeton University, who with Florin Diacu wrote the book ''Celestial Encounters,'' (Princeton University Press, 1996), a history of dynamical systems theory.
        Though he went on to make other important contributions in dynamical systems, Dr. Moser also worked in the field of partial differential equations, the sorts of equations in which many of the laws of physics, not to mention those of financial derivatives, are formulated.
        Jurgen Moser was born on July 4, 1928, in the East Prussian city of Konigsberg. He grew up in an intellectual family that spent summers at an aunt's country estate and evenings playing Haydn and Bach. His mother played the piano, his father, a psychiatrist, the violin, and young Jurgen , the cello.
        At 15, he was drafted, along with his entire high school class, into a military auxiliary force.
        ''We were trained to man antiaircraft guns against the bombers attacking our town,'' he recalled in a letter to a grandson.
        Too slight to lift the heavy explosives, he was assigned to compute their trajectories. His older brother and most of his classmates were killed in the war. For more than two years, he was always hungry, surviving by will and wit. Once, after he had crossed into Russian territory, he was captured briefly, held in a basement half-filled with water and starved for a week. Afterward, he said, ''I succeeded in snatching a frozen turnip which I believe may have saved my life.''
        What saved his mind was a habit of seeking refuge in mathematics that he first developed in the barracks.
        ''I forgot about the outside world and thought about a mathematical problem which I made up and tried to solve in my head,'' he recalled. ''That was very soothing; the officers could yell at me as much as they wanted.''
        After the war, he spent two years finishing high school in what later became East Germany. He fled to the west in 1947 to study at Gottingen. Most of the luminaries, including Richard Courant and Carl Ludwig Siegel, had been driven out or left voluntarily before the war. Dr. Moser came under Siegel's influence after he returned from the United States in 1950.
        A Fulbright Scholarship allowed Dr. Moser to spend a year in New York with the assemblage of emigres and young New Yorkers at the institute established by Richard Courant. Before long, he was spending weekends in the Courant house in New Rochelle, N.Y., with its heavy Biedermeier furniture, grand piano and musical evenings reminiscent of home, and was falling in love with Courant's eldest daughter, Gertrude, a biologist.
        Dr. Moser returned briefly to Gottingen to work as Siegel's assistant, writing a book on celestial mechanics with his mentor. By September 1955, he was back at N.Y.U. and had married Gertrude Courant. Two years later, he accepted a position at M.I.T. He became an American citizen in 1959, and one year later accepted an offer to return to the Courant Institute as a professor. In 1967, Dr. Moser took over the directorship of the institute, serving three years.
        In 1980, he accepted the position in Zurich. He retired in 1995, the year he received the Wolf Prize for mathematics. He also served as president of the International Mathematical Union from 1983 to 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, a son,  Richard D. Emery of New York; two daughters, Nina S. Moser of Seattle and Lucy I. Moser of Dijon, France; a brother, Klaus Moser-Maync of New York, and seven grandchildren.
        Louis Nirenberg, a mathematician at Courant, said of Dr. Moser's work, ''His mathematics was beautiful.
      