
        Lyle Leverich, who wrote ''Tom: The Unknown Tennessee Williams,'' the prize-winning authorized biography of the playwright, died on Friday at Kaiser Hospital in San Rafael, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Rafael.
        The cause was a heart seizure after complications from diabetes, said Herman Arrow, a photographer and Mr. Leverich's friend and executor.
        In 1997 Edward Albee praised Mr. Leverich's book as an ''extraordinary and invaluable critical biography,'' and added, ''There are two people in this world who are most instrumental in furthering Tennessee Williams's reputation, and they are Tennessee Williams and Lyle Leverich.'' And Arthur Miller called the biography ''a rare work of the greatest importance to American culture.''
        Mr. Leverich's book, which was published in 1995, covers the first 34 years of Williams's life, tracing the familial and emotional sources of the playwright's creativity, delineating how he emerged as one of the most important American artists of his century. The biography ends in 1945 with the triumphant Broadway opening of ''The Glass Menagerie.''
        It was to be followed by a second volume, ''Tenn: The Timeless World of Tennessee Williams,'' which would cover the rest of the playwright's life and would deal, said the author, with ''a man who couldn't handle his success.'' He added that he envisioned ''ending on an optimistic note -- I think the late plays require that.'' Mr. Leverich had finished writing about a quarter to a third the second book, Mr. Arrow said.
        Before he became a biographer, Mr. Leverich had been a theatrical producer and had scant background as a writer. He and Williams met in 1976 when Mr. Leverich was producing Williams's ''Two-Character Play'' at a small theater in San Francisco. They became friends and two years later Mr. Leverich suggested  that he write a book focusing on Williams's work in the theater.
        That book was never finished, but the next year, when Williams was presented with Kennedy Center Honors in Washington, Mr. Leverich was one of his guests at the ceremony. The playwright introduced Mr. Leverich to his brother, Dakin, by saying, ''Lyle is writing my biography.'' At first Mr. Leverich did not take the suggestion seriously, but then agreed to go ahead with the project, at least partly as an antidote to the insufficiency of the playwright's ''Memoirs,'' published in 1972.
        Although he had Williams's official approval and was a great admirer of his work, Mr. Leverich always believed the book would not be hagiographic but would tell the complete unvarnished story. He was encouraged by Williams's advice to him: ''You can always say the old hound dog could be a son of a bitch and you won't be wide of the mark.''
        The biographer and his subject were in close contact until Williams's death in 1983. When the book was finished, Lady Maria St. Just, one of the trustees of the estate that controlled the playwright's work, refused to let Mr. Leverich quote from Williams's unpublished material. After her death in 1994 the book was published. It received great acclaim, won the George Freedley Award as the best theater book of the year and has come to be acknowledged as the authoritative work on the subject.
        Mr. Leverich, who was named Augustus Lyle Leverich Jr., was born in Brooklyn. He is survived by a half-brother, Lyle Taylor Leverich of Saratoga, Calif.
        The author served in the Navy during World War II, and in 1945 saw Laurette Taylor in ''The Glass Menagerie'' during the play's Chicago tryout. It was his first brush with Williams. As he said, ''If anyone told me that I'd be Tennessee's biographer, I would have said, 'You're mad.' ''
        After a brief, unsuccessful career writing stories and screenplays, he opened a bookstore in Stinson Beach,  outside of San Francisco, and then moved into the theater as a producer. Tall and portly, he could have been a stand-in for Big Daddy in Williams's ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' but temperamentally was the opposite. The character was a raging and corrosive patriarch; Mr. Leverich was known as a kindly and sensitive gentleman.
        In his biography he wrote, ''With all his sins remembered, Tennessee's overriding virtue was his fervent involvement with life, in living it and in writing about it with passion.''  Mr. Leverich followed that example while writing his book. Williams's motto was ''en avant,'' which his biographer readily adopted: resisting discouragement, he was always moving onward.
      