
        Alton A. Lindsey, a pioneer ecologist who was believed to be the last living scientist from the Antarctica expeditions of Adm. Richard E. Byrd, died on Sunday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 92.
        Dr. Lindsey lived his life at the environmental ramparts. He studied penguins and seals in the Antarctic, permafrost in the Arctic and an enormous lava bed in New Mexico that became the 114,000-acre El Malpais National Monument. He studied starlings, volcanic vegetation, ducks and the sand dunes on the Indiana shore of Lake Michigan, which became the  Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore partly as a result of his labors.
        ''Few investigators, past or present, have achieved excellence in such varied aspects of ecology,'' the Ecological Society of America said in naming him ''eminent ecologist for 1976.''
        Dr. Lindsey's influence is suggested by the many things named after him. At Admiral Byrd's suggestion, 12 islands on the coast of Antarctica are called the Lindsey Islands. A new genus and species of bug was named after him, the Lindseyus coastus. The University of Arizona named the oldest dated wood in the American Southwest, the Lindsey Ancient Tree Site. The wood, in El Malpais National Monument, was traced to 190 B.C. through radiocarbon dating.
        Fellowships at Purdue University and Goshen College in Indiana were named for him. In 1988, the National Park Service presented the first Alton A. Lindsey Award in Science and Research Stewardship. Two months ago, Purdue University dedicated the Alton Lindsey Field Laboratory at its Ross Biological Reserve, which Dr. Lindsey founded 50 years earlier.
        But Dr. Lindsey's warm, soft-spoken touch, not to say his bad puns, was at the core of people's memories. He remembered with awe the first time he witnessed the Aurora Australis, the southern lights. He laughed about the time Admiral Byrd fell off a dogsled he was driving. He wrote a volume of ecological limericks under the pen name ''Windan Waters.''
        Alton A. Lindsey, the son of a Methodist minister in the Pittsburgh area, was born on May 7, 1907. He loved the outdoors and became an Eagle Scout. He studied wildlife, sometimes capturing birds to examine. When a family cat ate one, the cat disappeared, though the nephew  who tells the family story, Ralph Levering, a historian, does not remember being told exactly how.
        Dr. Lindsey graduated from Allegheny College, and went on to Cornell University to study for his doctorate in biology. He interrupted his studies to serve as the vertebrate biologist from 1933 to 1935 on Admiral Byrd's second trip to the Antarctic. While Admiral Byrd and others traveled into the interior toward the South Pole, he stayed on the coast to study penguins, seals and other animals.
        On graduation from Cornell, he took a teaching job at American University in Washington, where he spotted a student named Elizabeth Smith. A few days later, he offered to carry her books home. Admiral Byrd attended their wedding reception.
        After his wife graduated from American, they spent their first summer together working at Glacier National Park as rangers, and their second summer at Mount Rainier, where Dr. Lindsey developed his interest in the patterns and complexities of vegetation.
        In 1940, the Lindseys moved to the University of the Redlands in California, and then to the University of New Mexico. In 1947, he accepted an appointment as professor of forest ecology at Purdue University, where he stayed until he retired in 1973.
        In 1951, he served as ecologist on an Arctic expedition to study permafrost, sponsored by the American and Canadian governments.
        In the late 1940's, he became an early and strong proponent of the natural areas preservation movement. He was a charter member of the Nature Conservancy and its Indiana chapter. He is credited with establishing the Pine Hills Nature Preserve and the Big Walnut Natural Area in Indiana.
        Dr. Lindsey wrote 10 books, 15 magazine articles and 70 technical papers, as well as serving as the editor of numerous magazines and journals. More playful were his limericks, many of which linked social and scientific concerns. One concerned the habits of African hornbills and read as follows:
        In a tree hole the female must stay.
        Fed by the male through a hole in the clay.
        She's beginning to hate
        Being jailed by her mate.
        So the wife now supports E.R.A.
        After retiring, he remained active in conservation causes, his family said. On occasion, he would wear immense fake whiskers and carry a long walking stick to impersonate the naturalist author John Burroughs and recite from Burroughs's  books about natural phenomenon.
        He also remained a steadfast exponent of scientific rigor. As the debate over creationism versus Darwinism heated up in Oklahoma, he remained convinced that the overwhelming weight of evidence favored evolution.
        Dr. Lindsey is survived by his wife, a son, David Earl Lindsey of Alexandria, Va., and a daughter, Louise W. Lindsey of Tulsa.
        In a conversation with his minister five days before his death, Dr. Lindsey said: ''I've spent my life marveling at the beauty of what God created through evolution. And so many people these days miss seeing God's hand.''
        In his final days, when he could neither read nor talk, Dr. Lindsey listened to tapes of the songs of birds.
      