
        Armand Schwerner, a poet whose work inspired an extraordinary range of dance, performance and theatrical presentations, died on Thursday at his home on Staten Island. He was 71.
        His son, Adam, said the cause was cancer.
        In more than three decades Mr. Schwerner published about a dozen volumes of poetry, some in multiple editions. Two works will be issued this spring, ''Selected Shorter Poems'' and the complete edition of his major work ''The Tablets,'' which he developed in 27 long sections published over 25 years and which critics have compared to Ezra Pound's ''Cantos.''
        Because much of his poetry is nonlinear, it may be less familiar in print to most readers than the work of some of his contemporaries, but in performance and in recordings of his readings, it attracted large audiences. Mr. Schwerner had an inexhaustible enthusiasm for the hidden expressions in daily language, and in his verse dozens of different voices are heard, from those recorded on  ancient Mesopotamian clay tablets to American Indian and native Hawaiian verse to European drama and Tibetan Buddhist chants.
        The playful, challenging or even threatening dialogues below the surface of his poems were best realized in performance. For several years in the late 1980's the Living Theater presented versions of ''The Tablets'' to audiences that responded almost raucously in the United States and in Western Europe. But most Schwerner aficionados agreed that the best experience was to catch a presentation in which he performed.
        The energy was prodigious. He could produce many distinct voices from one breath to the next. He could also use his mastery of rhythm (he was an accomplished clarinetist) to create an audible stir in an audience, which at times made it seem that his poems were speaking from the floor, the balcony and the rafters all at once.
        He was gregarious, and his friends, family and students often found themselves experiencing theatrical eruptions when, as Adam Schwerner put it, his father would spontaneously ''go into character.''
        Mr. Schwerner was born in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1927 and moved to New York with his father in 1935; his mother and two siblings came the next year. He did undergraduate work at Cornell and Columbia Universities, earning a degree in French, followed by several years of graduate work at Columbia in anthropology and English literature. He taught English at Long Island University from 1963 to '64 and then joined the faculty of Staten Island Community College for 12 years.
        From 1976 until his retirement last summer he taught English at the College of Staten Island of the City University of New York. He was active in writers associations like American PEN, but his greatest commitment was to the Tibetan Museum in Staten Island, where he was  a board member. He and Dolores Holmes Schwerner, to whom he was married in 1961, had two sons, Adam and Ari. The couple divorced in 1975, and Ari died in a railroad accident three years ago.
        Besides poetry, Mr. Schwerner wrote criticism and commentary and translated ancient and contemporary languages, the most notable project being a version of Sophocles' play ''Philoctetes,'' which some classicists frown on but which is popular with theater directors for the force and resonance of its language. The scholar and critic Hugh Kenner called it ''a speakable version,'' seeing it as a sequel to Pound's translation of ''The Women of Trachis'' by Sophocles, but, Mr. Kenner maintained, ''Pound did not have Schwerner's sure feel for the demotic.''
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his mother, Savette; a brother, William B.; a sister, Jeanine Klein, and two grandchildren.
      