
        John Elliott Lyday, the surgeon who inspired the character Trapper John in ''M*A*S*H,'' died of cancer Monday at a hospital in Greensboro, N.C., where he lived. He was 78.
        The 1968 novel led to Robert Altman's hit 1970 movie, which set the standard for black comedies in its time. It also inspired both the hit television series, which ran from 1972 to 1983, and a sequel named ''Trapper John, M.D.,'' which ran from 1979 to 1986. Trapper John was played by Elliott Gould in the movie, by Wayne Rogers in the original television series and by Pernell Roberts in the spinoff.
        The real Dr. Lyday was a highly decorated gunner and radioman on a B-24 in World War II and served as a combat surgeon in the 8055th Mobile Army Surgical Hospital in Korea. A fellow surgeon, H. Richard Hornberger, writing under the pen name Richard Hooker, used him as a model for Trapper John, one of the book's more colorful characters.
        Dr. Lyday, by all accounts, was less flamboyant. But his daughter Carolyn Lyday said her father had a dry sense of humor and often used dark humor to describe the horrors of war, although she said he never laughed about combat.
        ''He was the prototype for Trapper John, the one who had the baby back home,'' she said. ''I was that baby.'' Carolyn Lyday was 6 months old when her father went to Korea.
        The fictional Trapper John got his nickname before the war when he ''trapped'' a beauty queen in the toilet of the Boston-Maine Express. In one of the book's memorable scenes, he hangs from a helicopter posing as Jesus, while his accomplices sell genuine photos of the Savior to the boggle-eyed troops below.
        Dr. Hornberger, who died in 1997, always stressed that his book was fiction intended to tell the larger truths of war. He once said that those in his unit, like most soldiers, were simply too young for their awful jobs. ''A few flipped their lids, but most just raised hell in a variety of ways and degrees,'' he said.
        Dr. Lyday's approach to life, at least after the war, was exceptionally grounded and pragmatic. He returned to his native North Carolina in 1958 to practice surgery at Moses Cone Hospital in Greensboro, rejecting a teaching post at his alma mater, the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. He was chief of surgery at Cone from 1973 to 1975.
        ''He was tough, loyal, honest as the day is long and conservative,'' said Dr. Robert Phillips, his friend and predecessor as head of general surgery at Cone.
        Dr. Lyday was the son of a mountain farmer in Pisgah Forest, N.C. His grandfather and a brother were doctors. He graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he also attended its two-year medical school. He earned his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania Medical School after World War II. After Korea, he returned to Penn to serve his internship and residency.
        He enlisted during World War II and served in the Air Force in England from 1942 to 1945. His rank was technical sergeant, and he was in combat aboard B-24's as a gunner and radioman. He flew 32 missions over Europe and won numerous combat medals, including the Distinguished Flying Cross. His daughter said tears would well up when he recalled seeing comrades in planes next to him blasted out of the sky.
        In addition to his daughter Carolyn, of Newtown, Pa., he is survived by his wife, Irma Friedrich Lyday; another daughter, Nancy Lyday Jones of Wexford, Pa.; a brother, Robert, of Bryson City, N.C.; and a granddaughter.
        His daughter said he never traded on his celebrity status, though he appeared on a local talk show once with Loretta Swit, who played Maj. Margaret (Hot Lips) Hoolihan in the television series, when she visited Greensboro years ago. He also attended reunions of the 8055th MASH unit with Dr. Hornberger.
        His daughter said that Dr. Lyday felt like a very lucky man. ''He wanted to make his life count,'' she said.
      