
        Maurice Couve de Murville, France's longest-serving foreign minister and the cool embodiment of Gaullist detachment toward the United States and the Atlantic alliance, died yesterday. He was 92.
        His family and the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic party, announcing the death, did not say where it had occurred.
        Mr. Couve de Murville served de Gaulle for 10 years as foreign minister, before becoming first his finance minister and then, after the 1968 student revolt against de Gaulle, prime minister. He served about a year in that post.
        France's current foreign minister, Hubert Vedrine, lauded Mr. Couve de Murville today as ''a great ambassador'' for his country.
        An impeccable diplomat, Mr. Couve de Murville was born on Jan. 24, 1907, in Rheims, the son of a judge and scion of a well-known family of France's Protestant minority. He glided through his country's most elite schools, earning a doctorate in law and a degree in literature from the Sorbonne and graduating No. 1 from the Ecole des Sciences Politiques, from which France has traditionally drawn its senior civil servants. He joined the Finance Ministry at the young age of 23, and within 10 years had risen to one of its most senior posts.
        During World War II, Mr. Couve de Murville at first stayed in France, serving the Vichy government that collaborated with the occupying Nazis. But in 1943, he fled to Algiers to serve the Free French administration that eventually came under de Gaulle.
        After the war, Mr. Couve de Murville served as ambassador to Italy, Egypt, the United States and West Germany. An ardent golfer, he was reportedly on the links in 1958 when the newly elected President de Gaulle made contact with him and asked to be foreign minister.
        Mr. Couve de Murville went on to outdo Talleyrand by serving a decade as foreign minister, becoming known as ''Monsieur Cool'' for his unruffled aplomb. Like his master,  de Gaulle, whom he served loyally, he had a world view that was firmly centered on France.
        During the 1960's, this insistence on the identity and concerns of France sometimes set the government in Paris apart from Washington. While Mr. Couve de Murville, who spoke near-perfect English, was a strong proponent of making no concessions to the Soviet Union, his government also raised American eyebrows by drawing closer to China.
        Asked about those policies in an interview in U.S. News and World Report in March 1964, he analyzed the reasons for differences with America. ''It may happen -- and in fact it has happened -- that our policy is not along the same lines as the policy of the United States,'' he said. ''It's not because we want it to to be different. It is because our thinking is different.''
        He added, for emphasis: ''It may happen that our interests are not the same as yours, because we are here, and you are on the other side of the Atlantic.''
        Two years later, France pulled out of NATO's integrated military command. It has never rejoined.
        The May 1968 riots that rattled the Gaullist government saw Mr. Couve de Murville transferred from the foreign to the finance ministry, and then to the prime minister's office. When de Gaulle resigned as president in 1969 after losing a referendum on reform of the political system, Mr. Couve de Murville stayed on as caretaker until another former prime minister, Georges Pompidou, was elected president in June.
        In 1973, Mr. Couve de Murville was elected to the Senate, the upper house of Parliament, a seat he held until 1995.
        He married Jacqueline Schweisguth, an amateur painter, in 1932. They had three daughters, and several grandchildren.
      