
        Vladimir Kondrashin, the coach who masterminded the Soviet Union's controversial last-second upset of the United States men's basketball team for the gold medal at the 1972 Munich Olympics, died Thursday of cancer at a hospital in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 70.
        The Soviet Union's improbable early morning 51-50 victory that ended a 63-game United States Olympic winning streak remains one of the defining games in the history of the sport, on a par in this century with the American men's upset of the Soviet hockey team during the 1980 Lake Placid Olympics.
        The United States had never lost an Olympic basketball game. It took the lead on two foul shots by Doug Collins with three seconds left, and the team thought the game was over after twice foiling Soviet inbounds plays. But officials ordered the clock reset, and Kondrashin then designed a play that produced a length-of-the-court pass to his favorite player, Aleksandr Belov, and a game-winning basket that stunned the Americans.
        ''Fair and square,'' is how Kondrashin described the finish, which included a crucial substitution of Ivan Edeshko, a former handball player, to throw the ''golden pass'' over Tom McMillen that Belov caught after knocking down two American defenders.
        ''The Americans badly underestimated the strength of our team,'' Edeshko told The Los Angeles Times 20 years later.
        A formal postgame protest by angry United States officials was rejected, and the 12 American players refused to accept their silver medals at the victory ceremony. They have still never been accepted.
        It was Kondrashin's patience and belief in his players that helped usher in the globalization of the sport. Hailed as a disciplinarian and tactician who listed Bobby Knight, Dean Smith and Dave Gavitt as close coaching friends, Kondrashin returned as a hero after Munich and guided the national team to its first title at the world championships two years later. His pledge of continued success was met with indifference by Soviet officials after a third-place finish at the 1976 Montreal Olympics, and Kondrashin was removed as coach of the national team.
        The breakup of the Soviet Union fragmented the quality of basketball in the country and frustrated Kondrashin in recent years while he coached the St. Petersburg Spartak team in the Russian league.
        Speaking with reporters in 1993 of the indifference of his countrymen to basketball, he said: ''There can be no good play without good players. And we have practically no players left.''
        He is survived by a son, Yuri.
      