
        Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and helped build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike in the mid-1960's, died at his home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88.
        Bowerman died in his sleep late Friday or early yesterday, according to a Nike spokesman, Scott Reames.
        From 1917, when Keds, the first popularly marketed sneaker, was introduced, until the 1960's, sports footwear underwent little change. Then came the team of Bowerman and Phil Knight, a former runner at Oregon.
        Bowerman and Knight sought to develop athletic shoes that were lighter and had more traction than long-standing designs. Propelled by the waffle-soled shoes designed by Bowerman and by astute marketing, and buoyed by the explosion of interest in running and physical fitness in the 1970's, they built Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., into the world's leading athletic shoe and sports apparel maker. It became a multibillion-dollar company, endorsed by superstars like Michael Jordan and recognized around the world for its swoosh logo.
        In Bowerman's 24 years at the University of Oregon, he won four National Collegiate Athletic Association track and field championships, and he coached 44 all-Americans and 19 Olympians, most notably the distance runner Steve Prefontaine.
        A descendant of pioneers on the Oregon Trail in the 1840's, Bowerman was born in Portland, Ore., and raised in Fossil and Medford, Ore. He ran track and played football at Oregon, coached at a high school in Medford and then served as an officer in Italy during World War II.
        In 1949, Bowerman became the track coach at Oregon, where Bill Hayward had coached from 1904 until 1947. A man with a commanding presence, Bowerman seemingly overlooked no detail, even hand-crafting his athletes' shoes, as he built his own reputation.
        In 1964, Bowerman went into business with Knight, a middle-distance runner under him in the late 1950's, each putting $500 into a company called Blue Ribbon Sports. That year, they sold 1,300 pairs of Tiger running shoes imported from Japan.
        Following a dispute with the Japanese manufacturer, they began designing their own shoes in 1971, contracting with Asian factories. They renamed their company Nike -- for the Greek goddess of victory -- and adopted the swoosh.
        In the early 1970's, Bowerman developed the waffle outsole, the outgrowth of an experiment in which he poured a rubber compound onto his wife's waffle iron.
        The first waffle shoes were introduced at the 1972 United States Olympic Trials in Eugene, Ore. -- home of the University of Oregon. This forerunner was called the Moon Shoe, probably because the distinctive impression it made in the dirt was akin to Neil Armstrong's footprint on the moon three years before.
        The rubber studs of the waffle sole brought a springiness welcomed not only by world-class athletes, but also by amateurs. The shoes, as Time magazine put it, were ''soon grabbed by the army of weekend jocks suffering from bruised feet.''
        Bowerman coached the United States men's track team at the 1972 Olympics in Munich at which Israeli athletes and coaches were massacred by Palestinian terrorists.
        The track team had a disappointing performance -- Prefontaine finished fourth in the 5,000 meters -- and Bowerman would call those Games the ''worst experience I've had in my entire educational and athletic life.'' The following March, he retired from coaching, but he remained with Nike.
        ''He was always trying to figure out ways to make a shoe lighter,'' Knight, Nike's chairman, would recall. ''He figured carrying one extra ounce for a mile was equivalent to carrying something like an extra thousand pounds in the last 50 yards.''
        Bowerman served on Nike's board from 1968 until June 1999.
        He is survived by by his wife, Barbara; three sons, Jon, Jay and Tom, and four grandchildren.
        Last October, Nike announced it would display a silhouette of Bowerman in his familiar Tyrolean hat on its Nike running shoes. The swoosh will still be there, but smaller.
        In 1979, with the running boom showing no signs of abating, Bowerman took some credit. He said the average running shoe gave about half as much weight to lift with every step as those worn in the early 1960's. As he put it, ''You can bet there wouldn't be so many people running today if they had to carry all the extra baggage we had back then.''
      