
        Marius Schoon, an opponent of apartheid who had been fighting an amnesty application by the police spy who killed Mr. Schoon's wife and daughter with a mail bomb, died here on Sunday. He was 61.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Hugh Lewin, a friend who spent seven years in prison with Mr. Schoon, both on sabotage charges.
        Mr. Schoon was one of a rare breed for whom the police and prison guards reserved special contempt, a fellow Afrikaner who, in their eyes, had turned his back on his own white people to campaign for equal rights for the black majority.
        Although he tried to blow up a police station in 1964 and served 12 years in prison for the crime, Mr. Schoon was not famous as a saboteur or political prisoner, but as a particularly sad and bitter victim of the apartheid Government. In 1984, his wife, Jeannette, and their 6-year-old daughter, Katryn, were blown up in front of Fritz, his 3-year-old son, in the kitchen of their house in exile in Angola. The man who sent the bomb, Craig Williamson, had pretended to be a family friend and had once stayed with them. But he was spying for the security police.
        The Schoons, who had known Mr. Williamson from his days as a student activist, suspected that he was a spy and helped lay a trap, Mr. Schoon's lawyer, George Bizos, said today. Mr. Williamson fell into it.
        In the suit that tried to deny Mr. Williamson amnesty, which can be granted just for political crimes, Mr. Bizos contended that Mr. Williamson had killed Jeanette and Katryn Schoon for revenge.
        Mr. Williamson, who became an officer in the security police, has also admitted preparing the fatal mail bomb for Ruth First, wife of Joe Slovo, leader of the Communist Party, and bombing the African National Congress office in London in 1982.
        In September, on a break in the amnesty hearing, Mr. Schoon found himself sharing a tiny courtyard  with his family's killer. Stalking back and forth furiously, Mr. Schoon avoided speaking to him all week. ''On the whole, I'm in favor of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission,'' Mr. Schoon said during the hearing. ''I think it's going to bring about national reconciliation. In my case, it's not going to bring about personal reconciliation.''
        Mr. Williamson testified in a quavering voice that he felt as if he had been ''hit with a bucket of cold water'' when he learned that his bomb had killed the girl. To kill unknown targets was one thing, he said, ''but to know that an attack is to be carried out on people you know is a great difficulty.''
        Mr. Schoon dismissed that as ''crocodile tears.''
        Mr. Schoon attended the University of Stellenbosch, considered the best Afrikaans university. Then he went to the English-speaking University of the Witwatersrand here, where he joined the Congress of Democrats, a white student organization that united with the A.N.C.
        ''He was sort of a hippie-leftie in the 60's,'' Mr. Lewin said.
        In 1964, he helped plant a bomb at the Johannesburg police station. ''It was an attempt to show the authorities there was still resistance'' despite the treason trial, which put many anti-apartheid leaders, including Nelson Mandela, behind bars, said Mr. Lewin, who was blowing up power pylons at the time.
        But Mr. Schoon's group had been infiltrated, and the police agent provocateur supplied the bomb, which went off harmlessly. Mr. Schoon served 12 years in Pretoria Local Prison, where white political prisoners were isolated far from the nonwhite prisoners on Robben Island.
        As one of three Afrikaner prisoners, Mr. Schoon was singled out for extra humiliations by the warden, Mr. Lewin said. When Mr. Schoon's first wife, Diana, committed suicide while he was in prison, he was not permitted to attend the funeral or to see their daughter, Jane.
        On his release in 1976, he met Jeannette Curtis, who was also ''banned,'' for her union activities, so they could not legally associate with each other. They moved to Botswana, working for the A.N.C. underground. Then, learning of plans to kill them, they moved to Lubango, Angola, where Mr. Williamson's team mailed the bomb.
        Since his return in 1990 after the ''unbanning'' of anti-apartheid groups, Mr. Schoon had worked for the Development Bank, which was working to remake its image. It was created by the apartheid Government to underwrite the so-called homelands in which black South Africans cans had to take citizenship. The bank now lends to help black neighborhoods, and Mr. Schoon oversaw many projects. ''He was useful to them,'' Mr. Lewin said. ''But I'd hate to describe him as a banker. He was far too much of a poet.''
        Besides Jane and Fritz, Mr. Schoon, who did write poetry, is survived by his third wife, Sherry. The suit against Mr. Williamson also survives. It will depend on the commission's amnesty decision, due next month.
      