
        Norman E. Rothstein, a producer and general manager for more than 40 years on and Off Broadway and in the national and international theater, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Julie Hughes, a New York casting director.
        Mr. Rothstein was involved in one major capacity or another in more than 300 plays and musicals, from the original Broadway productions of ''My Fair Lady,'' ''The Sound of Music'' and ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' to the Pulitzer Prize-winning Off Broadway dramas ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man in the Moon Marigolds'' and ''No Place to Be Somebody.'' The list also includes the Broadway and touring revivals of ''The Little Foxes,'' with Elizabeth Taylor, ''The King and I,'' with Yul Brynner and ''Peter Pan,'' with Sandy Duncan.
        A governor of the League of American Theaters and Producers, the Broadway trade group, Mr. Rothstein was a principal negotiator for the league on contracts with the theatrical craft unions. He was also a consultant to the Walt Disney Company for the renovation of the New Amsterdam Theater on West 42nd Street, an important element in the revival of Times Square.
        Mr. Rothstein, a native of Brooklyn, fell in love with the performing arts at an early age. He was a theater major at the University of Massachusetts. While in the Army, he worked on stage productions for servicemen. After military service, he started out in theater in Milwaukee before returning to New York in the late 1950's as a stage manager for ''My Fair Lady,'' ''The Sound of Music'' and ''Virginia Woolf.''
        Mr. Rothstein's first marriage ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Jeffrey, of New York; a daughter, Elisa Rothstein of Los Angeles, and a granddaughter.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Rothstein was managing director of the Mineola Playhouse on Long Island. Among the many Broadway, national or international productions for which he was general manager, executive producer or both were ''Black and Blue,'' ''Torch Song Trilogy,'' ''On Your Toes,'' ''The Tap Dance Kid,'' ''The Pirates of Penzance,'' ''Grease,'' ''Pippin,'' ''Tango Argentino,'' ''Tango Pasion,'' ''Flamenco Puro,'' ''Hello, Dolly!'' and ''Andre Heller's Wonderhouse.''
        He was general manager for more than 90 Off Broadway productions and tours, among them ''Marigolds,'' ''No Place to Be Somebody'' and ''Your Own Thing,'' as well as for Broadway appearances and international tours for concerts and dance companies. Among them were the Beijing Opera, the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Dutch National Ballet, the Dance Theater of Harlem and the Martha Graham Dance Company.
        Mr. Rothstein was also a consultant to the 42nd Street Redevelopment Corporation on the renovation and reuse of historic Times Square theaters.
        Theater construction or renovation projects outside New York in which he played a role include the Miami Beach Theater of the Performing Arts, the Fox Theater in Atlanta and the Tower Theater in Houston.
      