
        Tony Bryant, who was a Black Panther, an airplane hijacker, a prison inmate in Communist Cuba for 11 1/2 years and later an anti-Castro militant based in Florida, died on Thursday. He was 60.
        The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported. Where he died was not immediately disclosed, but he had lived in southern Florida after being freed from prison and expelled from Cuba in 1980.
        Mr. Bryant grew up in California  and joined the Black Panthers.
        In 1969, armed with a handgun, he hijacked a National Airlines plane that was flying from New York to Miami and forced it to fly to Havana. He told the crew, ''I would rather be in prison in Cuba than here'' in the United States. He has also been quoted as saying he had intended to exchange the plane in Cuba for heavy weapons that the Panthers could use to stage a revolution in the United States.
        The official Havana newspaper Granma said at the time that he had been arrested at the Havana airport after committing robbery as well as the hijacking. Years later, he conceded he had robbed some passengers, one of whom turned out to be a secret agent for President Fidel Castro, with a briefcase crammed with $100 bills. ''I robbed the wrong man,'' Mr. Bryant said in a 1995 interview.
        When he was arrested, the Havana government released his full name as Anthony Garnet Bryant, which led to the discovery of police records in San Francisco that showed he had been convicted in 1961 for robbery and in 1964 for possession and sale of marijuana, and had been sentenced to San Quentin.
        In 1980 he was one of 30 Americans  who were pardoned and released from Cuban prisons and flown to Miami.
        In his 1984 book, ''Hijack,'' he described watching executions and endless beatings in Cuban prisons. In his later years, he displayed scars on his body, which he said were made by bayonets while he was in prison. In a 1997 interview, he said: ''I had believed that Cuba was a revolutionary's paradise. I found a revolutionary's graveyard instead.''
        The release of the prisoners was seen by Cuban and United States officials in Cuba then as a gesture by the Castro government to improve Cuban-United States relations.
        Once in Miami, Mr. Bryant was tried for the hijacking but was sentenced only to five years on parole after former fellow-inmates testified to his bravery as a prisoner. In his Florida years he earned money as a lecturer and a radio and television talk-show host, and he rose high in an armed, Florida-based anti-Castro organization, Commandos L.
        Survivors include his companion, Jennifer Viscasilla.
      