
        Bill Bowerman, a renowned track coach at the University of Oregon who spawned a revolution in athletic footwear and America's jogging boom while helping build a worldwide marketing powerhouse as the co-founder of Nike, died Friday at a retirement home in Fossil, Ore. He was 88.
        From 1917, when Keds, the first popularly marketed sneaker, was introduced, until the 1960's, sports footwear underwent little change. Then came the Nike team of Bowerman and Phil Knight, a former runner whom Bowerman had coached at Oregon.
        Bowerman and Knight sought to develop athletic shoes that were lighter and had more traction than longstanding designs. Propelled by the waffle-soled shoes designed by Bowerman and through astute marketing -- and buoyed by the explosion of interest in running and physical fitness in the 1970's -- they built Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., into the world's leading athletic shoe and sports apparel maker. It became a multibillion-dollar company, endorsed by superstars like Michael Jordan and recognized around the world for its swoosh logo.
        In Bowerman's 24 years as coach at the University of Oregon, he developed many of the world's best distance and middle-distance runners, among them Steve Prefontaine and Alberto Salazar. He won four National Collegiate Athletic Association track and field championships, and he coached 44 all-Americans and 19 Olympians.
        William Jay Bowerman Jr., a descendant of pioneers on the Oregon Trail in the 1840's, was born in Portland and raised in Fossil, a town in eastern Oregon, and in Medford. He was a quarter-miler and a football blocking back at the University of Oregon and was accepted to medical school after graduating in 1934. But he became the track and football coach at Medford High School instead and, after serving as an Army officer in Italy during World War II,  embarked on his collegiate coaching career.
        In 1949, Bowerman became the track coach at Oregon, where Bill Hayward established a formidable reputation as coach from 1904 until 1947. A man with a commanding presence, Bowerman seemingly overlooked no detail, even hand-crafting his athletes' shoes, as he built his own reputation.
        In 1964, Bowerman went into business with Knight, a middle-distance runner under him in the late 1950's, each putting $500 into a company called Blue Ribbon Sports. That year, they sold 1,300 pairs of Tiger running shoes imported from Japan.
        On a trip to New Zealand in the 1960's, Bowerman saw how Arthur Lydiard, a well-known coach, had persuaded many people to jog. In 1967, Bowerman wrote ''Jogging,'' a book credited with inspiring the running boom in America.
        After a dispute with their Japanese manufacturer, Bowerman and Knight began designing their own shoes in 1971, contracting at first with Asian factories. They renamed their company Nike -- for the Greek goddess of victory -- and adopted the swoosh.
        In the early 1970's, Bowerman developed the waffle outsole, the outgrowth of an experiment in which he poured a rubber compound onto his wife's waffle iron.
        The first waffle shoes were introduced at the 1972 United States Olympic trials in Eugene, Ore. -- home of the University of Oregon. This forerunner was called the Moon Shoe, probably because the distinctive impression it made in the dirt was akin to Neil Armstrong's footprint on the moon three years before.
        The rubber studs of the waffle sole brought a springiness welcomed not only by world-class athletes, but also by amateurs. The shoes, as Time magazine put it, were ''soon grabbed by the army of weekend jocks suffering from bruised feet.''
        But Bowerman's footwear experiments brought a personal cost. A glue he used contained hexane, whose fumes permanently damaged his neurological system, leaving him with a limp and forcing him to wear a leg brace.
        Bowerman coached the United States men's track team at the 1972 Olympics in Munich at which Israeli athletes and coaches were massacred by Palestinian terrorists.
        The track team had a disappointing performance -- Prefontaine finished fourth in the 5,000 meters -- and Bowerman would call those Games the ''worst experience I've had in my entire educational and athletic life.'' The following March, he retired from coaching, but he remained with Nike.
        In addition to Prefontaine and Salazar, Bowerman's celebrated athletes included Dyrol Burleson, Jim Grelle, Kenny Moore, Wade Bell, Mac Wilkens, Arne Kvalheim of Norway, Jim Bailey of Australia and Harry Jerome of Canada.
        ''He combines the best features of the country philosopher and the mad scientist, the promoter and the recluse,'' Runner's World magazine wrote. ''He considers himself more an experimenter, teacher and popularizer of mass-participation track than a recruiter and coach.''
        And Bowerman could be a maverick. When he was elected to the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in 1981, he refused induction because Hayward, his college coach, had never been chosen.
        Bowerman served on Nike's board from 1968 until June 1999.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; three sons, Jon, of Fossil; Jay, of Bend, Ore., and Tom, of Eugene; and six grandchildren.
        Last October, Nike announced it would display a silhouette of Bowerman in his familiar Tyrolean hat on its Nike running shoes. The swoosh will still be there, but smaller.
        In 1979, with the jogging boom thriving, Bowerman exulted in having designed footwear that kept Americans running. He said the average running shoe gave about half as much weight to lift with every step as those worn in the early 1960's. As he put it, ''You can bet there wouldn't be so many people running today if they had to carry all the extra baggage we had back then.''
      