
        Dr. Hans Waine, who received a doctorate in history in Germany and worked as a journalist in Berlin before moving to the United States and becoming a prominent rheumatologist, died Dec. 5 at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 92.
        In his medical career, he worked for foundations and other organizations that addressed arthritis treatment. He traveled around New England, setting up outpatient clinics for treating rheumatic diseases.
        ''Any problem cases we had, we would present to him,'' said Dr. Samuel Potsubay, an internist who lives in South Hadley, Mass. Dr. Potsubay said that in the 1950's, there was a lot of frustration because so little was known about arthritis.
        ''We doctors kind of hated to have these patients, you know,'' he said.''So we welcomed his input.''
        Dr. Waine, whose father was a mining engineer, was born in Hagen, Germany.
        His son Martin said he had wanted to go to medical school, but his father told him he could not afford to send him.
        So the young man went to Switzerland and waited tables, ultimately saving enough money to receive a doctorate in history at the University of Munster in Germany, where he studied with the theologian Karl Barth.
        He then worked as foreign editor for the Berliner Kreuz Zeitung. He earned a fellowship to the Columbia School of Journalism, where he received a master's degree. While at Columbia, he met Edith Sutro Loewenstein, whom he married. They returned to Berlin, where he chafed under Hitler's censorship, and his wife, as a Jew, was increasingly endangered.
        They fled, ultimately finding their way to New York, where the dean of the Columbia Journalism School paved the way for him to attend Columbia Medical School. He failed biochemistry, and had to make it up in the summer, but he won entrance to Harvard Medical School, from which he graduated in 1937. After graduation, he worked in the Arthritis Unit of Massachusetts General Hospital.
        He then worked in San Francisco in the emerging field of rheumatology and wrote more than 30 articles about arthritis and rheumatism. He returned to Boston in 1950, where he was the first medical director of the Massachusetts chapter of the Arthritis Foundation; chief of staff of the Boston Dispensary; director of the rheumatic disease training program of the Tufts-New England Medical Center; and professor of Medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine.
        As chairman of grants at the National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic Diseases, he influenced research around the United States, said Dr. Hubert Caplan, a former student and colleague.
        Dr. Waine is survived by his wife; three sons, Martin of Greenwich, Conn., Kenneth of Marathon, Fla., and Peter of Baltimore; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. A daughter, Susan, died in 1996.
        During the last years of his life, at Loomis Village, a retirement community in South Hadley, Dr. Waine returned to his first career, newspapers. Though blind, he edited the Loomis newspaper, ''The Villager.''
      