
        Leo Smit, a composer, pianist and teacher, died on Dec. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, said Nils Vigeland, a friend.
        During a long and varied career that began when he was 15, Mr. Smit worked with Stravinsky, was closely associated with Copland, wrote an opera with the British astronomer Sir Fred Hoyle and became a highly valued teacher. Earlier this year, in notes for a new recording, he remembered these and other highlights from a rich life, including ''the golden years in Rome with the high-spirited companionship of Alexei Haieff, Harold Shapero and Lukas Foss''; the time Leonard Bernstein ''set a high-jump record while conducting the climax of my Second Symphony''; and encounters with painters, dancers and poets.
        He was born in Philadelphia on  Jan. 12, 1921, the son of a violinist, Kolman Smit. At 8 he went with his mother to Moscow, where he studied for a year with Dmitri Kabalevsky. He then returned to Philadelphia and went from there to New York to complete his studies with Isabella Vengerova and Jose Iturbi for piano and with Nicolas Nabokov for composition. In 1936-37 he was Balanchine's rehearsal pianist, and it was in that role that he met Stravinsky.
        Mr. Smit made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1939, when he was only 18. Disdaining the conventional recital program, he later pioneered thematic concerts (''Liszt in Italy,'' given with his own slides; ''Mozart: A Self-Portrait,'' mixing piano and vocal music) and made a feature of new pieces, especially by Copland and other composers close to him. In 1952 he gave the first performance of Haieff's Piano Concerto.
        His start as a composer was slower. Two ballets written for Valerie Bettis, ''Yerma'' (1946) and ''Virginia Sampler'' (1947), won him some attention, but his big break came in 1957 when the Boston Symphony played his Symphony No. 1, honored by the New York Music Critics' Circle as the best new orchestral work of the year. Also in 1957 he moved to Los Angeles to teach at the University of California. In 1962 he began teaching at the State University of New York at Buffalo, but he returned to California each winter and settled there last year.
        Among his later works are two more symphonies, a piano concerto and a second collaboration with Sir Fred, ''Copernicus: Narrative and Credo,'' which had its first performance at the National Academy of Sciences in Washington in 1973. His last decade was devoted to songs based on the poems of Emily Dickinson, of which he completed nearly 100.
        No immediate family members survive.
      