
        Huntz Hall, who for 20 years played the slow-witted sidekick of Leo Gorcey in more than 80 ''Bowery Boys,'' ''Dead End Kids'' and ''East Side Kids'' movies, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 78.
        The cause was cardiac disease, his family said.
        Rarely, if ever, has a bit of Broadway casting led to as many lucrative replays and adaptations of the same roles, as when Mr. Hall, Mr. Gorcey and four other young actors appeared as New York street toughs in Sidney Kingsley's 1935 play ''Dead End.''
        Peppering their speech with ''dese,'' ''dem'' and ''dose,'' the six portrayed the hard-luck solidarity of poor teen-agers who, seeing few alternatives to lawlessness, find themselves impressed by criminals. The youths, who were shown diving into an orchestra pit transformed into the East River, had a powerful impact in establishing the play's realism.
        Reviewing it for The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote, ''The boys' parts are played with such authenticity that there was a foul sidewalk canard last evening that a mob of East Side street arabs had been carried west in their street clothes. Certainly the pitch of their voices has the piercing note of the tenement streets.''
        In fact the performers were all experienced actors. Mr. Hall, who was 15 at the time, had been performing on radio since he was 5 and had long since changed his given name of Henry for the notable and indeterminately ethnic Huntz. Born in New York, he was one of 14 children of an Irish-born engineer.
        When Samuel Goldwyn produced the 1937 film version of ''Dead End,'' adapted by Lillian Hellman and directed by William Wyler, the six juveniles served as something of a Greek chorus, variously tempted and repelled by the older characters played by Humphrey Bogart, Joel McCrea and Sylvia Sidney. As in the play, Mr. Hall played the character called Dippy.
        The movie was a hit, and the Dead Enders -- Mr. Hall, Mr. Gorcey, Gabriel Dell, Billy Halop, Bobby Jordan and Bernard Punsley -- became such stars that within two years Warner Brothers rushed production of six more films in which they portrayed roughly the same group of wayward teen-agers, more victimized by society than victimizers. In these films Mr. Hall may well have anticipated the contemporary custom of wearing a baseball cap with its bill askew or turned backward.
        For the most part, the new films were variations on the theme of ''Dead End.'' In urban settings, still tinged by the Depression, the films' antiheroes were criminals or suspects in crime, played by stars such as Bogart, in ''Crime School'' 1938), James Cagney in ''Angels With Dirty Faces''(1938) and John Garfield in ''They Made Me a Criminal''(1939). The young men always struggled with their feelings toward these notorious neighborhood luminaries.
        By 1940 the genre had changed, and the Dead End Kids' movies had more in common with the older Our Gang comedies than with any realistic portrayals of society's lower depths. In these film comedies the gang took on counterfeiters, spies, safe crackers, kidnappers and jewel thieves. No longer were the Dead Enders ambiguous or torn in their sympathies; they were full-fledged good guys.
        During the war years Mr. Hall appeared in nine films for Universal in which he was usually called Pig. Another series for Monogram Pictures cast the rubber-faced, pop-eyed Mr. Hall in his usual role of a good-natured dumb guy.
        Finally in 1946 came the first of the ''Bowery Boys'' series, in which Gorcey played Slip Mahoney, the ring leader, and Mr. Hall was Sach Jones, his sidekick. In all, 48 films were made. In the last one, ''In the Money'' (1958), a 38-year-old Mr. Hall is once more the perpetual adolescent, dog-sitting a poodle on a cruise as nefarious thieves try to steal a diamond hidden on the dog.
        With the passage of the Bowery Boys, Mr. Hall continued to act in television shows and movies. In 1977 he played the role of a movie mogul in Ken Russell's ''Valentino.'' He performed in dinner theater productions but retired in 1994 after the death of his fourth wife.
        Mr. Hall is survived by a son, the Rev. Gary R. Hall of Pasadena, Calif., and a grandson.
        With his death the only original Dead End kid still alive is Mr. Punsley, who left the group to attend medical school.
      