
        Natale Laurendi, a New York criminal investigator whose expertise with lie detectors helped convict the guilty and clear the innocent for many years, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Laurendi joined the New York City Police Department in 1951 and was assigned to the Manhattan District Attorney's squad, which put him to work on major rackets cases. At the behest of Robert F. Kennedy, then the chief counsel of a Senate investigating committee on organized crime, he testified at the panel's hearings on racketeering in the teamsters' union.
        In 1962, Frank S. Hogan, the renowned Manhattan District Attorney, selected Mr. Laurendi to study polygraphy, and turned him into the Police Department's star lie detector. He retired from the force in 1975 and started Nat Laurendi, Certified Lie Detection Inc., a private investigations and polygraphy firm on lower Broadway in Manhattan.
        Polygraph tests are designed to determine whether the person is telling the truth by measuring a subject's physical reactions to questions and recording them on a graph. Mr. Laurendi championed the procedure as ''an excellent investigative tool for the defense, the prosecution and the courts.''
        One of the most celebrated cases in which his work played a vital role was the Janice Wylie-Emily Hoffert ''career girl'' murders case of 1963. Painstaking detective work, including Mr. Laurendi's tests, helped to free a wongly convicted defendant and convict the real killer. He also figured in Patricia Hearst's 1976 bank robbery trial in San Francisco. He served as a consultant, testified at hearings, lectured, contributed articles and recently finished a book manuscript.
        Mr. Laurendi was born in southern Italy but grew up in Brooklyn. In World War II, he served as a special agent, investigator and interpreter in the Army Counterintelligence Corps in Italy, winning the Bronze Star with four battle stars.
        He was certified as a polygraphist at the National Training Center in 1963. In 1969, he received an associate degree in psychology from City College.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Laura Autelitano; two sons, Domenick and Robert, of Brooklyn; three daughters, Adrienne Renzetti, Loretta Laurendi and Diana Allocca, all of Brooklyn; two brothers, Joseph, of Ocala, Fla., and Anthony, of Levittown, N.Y.; a sister, Matilda Cherney of Staten Island, and eight grandchildren.
      