
        Dr. Franklin Asbury Long, an emeritus professor at Cornell University, former Government adviser and advocate of international arms reductions, died on Monday at a nursing home in Pomona, Calif. He was 88 and had lived in Ithaca, N.Y., and Claremont, Calif.
        A chemist by training, Dr. Long was a member of the President's Science Advisory Committee in the Administrations of Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson. He also was assistant director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in the early 1960's. His subsequent nomination as director of the National Science Foundation ran afoul of officials in President Richard M. Nixon's White House because of Dr. Long's opposition to its antiballistic missile project.
        Heralded as a pillar of the country's nuclear defense strategy, the missiles project stirred controversy from the start, and Dr. Long had earlier argued in The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that the Government's attempts to develop the antiballistic missile would create ''strong pressure toward acceleration of the arms race.''
        When a board of scientists nominated Dr. Long to be director of the National Science Foundation, he went to Washington for an appointment with Nixon, but later recalled that he learned from a Presidential science aide that things had changed because of the missile matter. The White House disapproved of Dr. Long's nomination.
        Other scientists voiced alarm over the implication that the Government wanted to hear only from advisers who agreed with its policies. The White House later relented on the foundation director's post, but Dr. Long then declined the offer.
        Franklin Asbury Long was born in Great Falls, Mont., and graduated from the University of Montana with an A.B. in 1931 and an M.A. in 1932. He obtained his Ph.D. in chemistry in 1935 at the University of California at Berkeley, where he began his academic career as an instructor.
        He joined the Cornell faculty in Ithaca, N.Y., in 1937, and was promoted to full professor in 1939, later serving as chairman of the chemistry department. He was Cornell's vice president for research and advanced studies in the 1960's and was named Henry Luce Professor of Science and Society in 1969.
        Dr. Long also directed the university's program on science, technology and society and its peace studies program, retiring in 1979. He then moved to California, where he taught as an adjunct professor at the University of California at Irvine.
        He was an editor of ''Weapons in Space'' (Norton, 1986), a collection of essays on both sides of the debate involving antimissile defenses and related technologies.
        He served on the boards of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the Albert Einstein Peace Prize Foundation and the Fund for Peace. He was also active in the international Pugwash movement of scientists concerned about the world's arsenals of war.
        His wife, Marion Thomas Long, died in 1992. Dr. Long is survived by a son, Franklin, of Claremont; a daughter, Elizabeth Long of Houston; a brother, George of Portland, Ore., and a grandson.
      