
        Rolf Liebermann, a Zurich-born composer who was the dynamic general administrator of the Paris Opera from 1973 to 1980 after directing the Hamburg Opera for 13 years, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 88.
        Mr. Liebermann revitalized the Paris Opera after it had declined. He has been credited with substantially  raising the quality of its productions and its casting.
        France's President, Jacques Chirac, said that Mr. Liebermann had managed to ''return to the Paris Opera all of its brilliance, its prestige and its culture.''
        The Paris Opera's general director, Hugues Gall, said that when Mr. Liebermann took over, the question was simple: would the French Government continue to subsidize an institution that had lost the confidence of the public and professionals?
        Mr. Gall said Mr. Liebermann  achieved a ''choreographic and lyric renaissance'' at the opera, and that his years there ''were those of revival, reform and a period of great splendor.'' Speaking even more broadly, Mr. Gall said, ''The way of envisaging lyric music and opera in this second half of the century would not have been the same without him.''
        In reviving the Paris Opera, Mr. Liebermann had Sir Georg Solti, the Hungarian-born British conductor, as music adviser for a few years, and Mr. Liebermann also brought to it eminent conductors like Karl Bohm, Pierre Boulez and Lorin Maazel.
        Matters had progressed so far by 1976 that John Rockwell of The New York Times referred then to the Paris Opera under Mr. Liebermann as ''that once-again-illustrious ensemble.'' He called Mr. Liebermann ''a bluff, commanding man of 65 years who radiates the authority accrued from his years of power on the international opera circuit,'' and he reported that Mr. Liebermann's ''success has been apparent to all those who have heard opera in Paris,'' although much remained to be done.
        Mr. Liebermann's changes included the opera's repertory. The New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote, also in 1976: ''The Paris Opera, reconstituted in 1973 under Rolf Liebermann, does stand for a degree of modernism. In Hamburg, Liebermann had created a house that was wildly avant-garde, as opera houses go. In Paris he had to start from scratch with repertory. But he did present Schoenberg's 'Moses and Aaron,' conducted by his musical adviser, Georg Solti. He did bring in such relatively unfamiliar works as Massenet's 'Don Quichotte' and Paul Dukas's 'Ariane et Barbe-Bleu.' ''
        But Mr. Liebermann's work in Paris also drew criticism. Mr. Rockwell wrote in 1977 that Mr. Liebermann's ''policy of rebuilding the company's repertory of 18th- and 19th-century staples'' had led to ''productions that might most charitably be described as 'unusual.' ''
        Mr. Liebermann even enlisted the film director Joseph Losey to oversee a production of ''Boris Godunov''  in 1980, during Mr. Liebermann's last season with the Paris Opera. Mr. Losey's version proved to be compact, cinematic and controversial.
        Le Monde said, ''This surprising 'Boris,' welcomed with a certain coldness and even a few boos, is an exciting show that people will talk about.''
        Mr. Liebermann's success in reviving the French public's enthusiasm for opera led to the creation of the ultra-modern Bastille Opera, which opened a decade ago. That opera is also overseen by Mr. Gall.
        In his Paris Opera years, Mr. Liebermann also presided over the Opera-Comique in Paris, and Mr. Schonberg wrote in 1979, ''The Opera-Comique has had a checkered history the last few years, but now that Rolf Liebermann has taken charge, it is once again an important part of Parisian musical life.''
        Mr. Liebermann's tenure at the Hamburg Opera, from 1959 to 1972, brought him recognition for daring and distinction.
        As director of that opera, as Mr. Rockwell put it in 1976, ''Mr. Liebermann was renowned for the extent of contemporary operas -- many of them commissioned -- that he performed.'' He also tried, by televising productions, to have them seen and heard by a larger public.
        As a young man, Mr. Liebermann studied law in Zurich and then composition with Wladimir Vogel and conducting with Hermann Scherchen.
        He was a cabaret singer and a jazz saxophonist and then became, as Mr. Rockwell once put it, ''a composer of some distinction.''
        Among his compositions are three operas as well as symphonies and concertos. In 1952 his early opera, ''Leonore 40/45,'' was produced in Basel, Switzerland.
        From 1950 to 1957 he directed a radio orchestra in Switzerland. Beginning in 1957 he had the same kind of job with North German Radio for a time.
        After Mr. Liebermann's years at the Paris Opera, he returned to the Hamburg Opera as its director, beginning in 1985, for three seasons.
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      