
        Gideon Rafael, a founder of the Israeli Foreign Ministry and one of its most accomplished and longest-serving diplomats, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. He was 85.
        In a career that began before Israel was established in 1948, Mr. Rafael negotiated with the Nazis to send Jews to Palestine, served at the United Nations and in Europe and conducted secret contacts with Arab countries.
        Born in Berlin in 1913, Mr. Rafael left Germany after Hitler's rise to power and immigrated to British-ruled Palestine in 1934. In 1940 he was sent to Europe by the Haganah, the Jewish armed force in Palestine, to negotiate the rescue of 40,000 German Jews. He met in Italian-controlled Rhodes with a representative of Adolf Eichmann, the Nazi official,  to discuss a plan to send Jews to Palestine through a transit camp on the island. The scheme failed when Italy entered World War II.
        After serving with the British Army in the war, Mr. Rafael joined the political department of the Jewish Agency, where he worked in intelligence and directed efforts to recover Jewish property lost in Europe. In 1947, he was a member of the Jewish Agency delegation to the United Nations when the General Assembly voted to partition Palestine into Jewish and Arab states. After Israel declared independence in May 1948, he founded its Foreign Ministry in Tel Aviv with Moshe Sharett, the first Foreign Minister of the country.
        ''So three of us became the Foreign Ministry, Sharett, myself and the secretary,'' he recalled in an interview last year. ''Our assignment was to send out the pronouncement of the birth of Israel. At 2 A.M. on May 15, we sent the driver to the post office with the telegrams. He came back, saying the clerk would not accept them without payment.
        ''So I started my first diplomatic mission, to convince him that the State of Israel can give instructions. He said he would accept them only from the British. By 3 A.M. we found the man appointed by Britain to handle the transition. He wrote a note approving the expense, and Israel's birth was pronounced to the world.''
        Mr. Rafael became an adviser to the Israeli delegation to the United Nations, and from 1953 to 1957 he was in charge of Middle Eastern and  United Nations affairs at the Foreign Ministry, conducting secret contacts with Arab officials. He maintained those contacts into the 70's, working on problems like the future of Jerusalem and of the Golan Heights, which Israel captured from Syria in the 1967 war.
        Mr. Rafael was Israel's representative at the United Nations during that war. Earlier, he had been the envoy to Belgium, the European Community and United Nations organizations in Geneva.
        After working as director general of the Foreign Ministry from 1968 to 1972, he was Ambassador to Britain from 1973 to 1978, when he retired.
        Mr. Rafael published an autobiography, ''Destination Peace -- Three Decades of Israeli Foreign Policy'' (Weidenfeld & Nicholson, 1981).
        Surviving are his wife, Nurit;  three children, Amnon, Michal and Ruth; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      