
        Harold Edelman, an architect and teacher who helped to preserve some of New York's small treasures -- a park, an ornate library and a quiet church -- died on Dec. 21 at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice. He was 75.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Edelman, the founding partner of the Greenwich Village architecture firm that bears his name, designed buildings that were not the lofty castles that shape the city's spiked skyline, but the smaller buildings that fill the lower spaces, places where people live, worship or rest when sick. His firm was the architect for the Two Bridges urban renewal area on the Lower East Side, and designed 1,364 apartments between the Manhattan and Williamsburg Bridges. He also designed housing for the elderly on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and health clinics in the Bronx.
        But Mr. Edelman will probably be remembered for twice planning the reconstruction of St. Mark's in the Bowery, one of the city's oldest churches. In 1978, a nearly completed restoration project was ravaged by fire. Colleagues said Mr. Edelman did all the design work personally, finishing with plans for the series of stained glass windows that frame the building's interior.
        Mr. Edelman was born in Brooklyn and received his architecture degree from Cornell University in 1943. After serving in the Army Signal Corps in World War II, Mr. Edelman spent a year studying in Paris at Ecole Nationale Superieure des Beaux-Arts.
        He taught at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn from 1952 to 1962, and in 1960, founded an architecture firm  with his wife, Judith Hochberg Edelman, and Stanley Salzman.
        While teaching at Pratt, Mr. Edelman learned of the impending demolition of the Jefferson Market Courthouse, the turreted red-brick hall in the center of Greenwich Village. He assigned his architecture students to draft possible uses for the doomed building. Two students suggested using it as a branch library, the form in which it survives today.
        Mr. Edelman was one of nine architects assembled to redesign Washington Square Park. The committee's design, drafted in response to a city-proposed plan, maintained the crossing paths at the heart of the park and rejected an attempt to turn half of the area into a great lawn.
        In addition to his wife of 51 years, Mr. Edelman is survived by a sister, Edna Friedman of Bethesda, Md; a brother, Paul, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; two sons, Marc, of Manhattan, and Joshua, of Madrid, and four grandchildren.
      