
        Dr. Max Samter, an immunologist recognized internationally for research that led to improvements in patient care and for a groundbreaking textbook, died on Tuesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 90.
        Dr. Samter fled Germany in 1937, early in his medical career, fearing retribution for his anti-Nazi activities, and his wartime service in the United States Army damaged his hearing, nearly cutting short his clinical career.
        But he became a leader in the treatment of people with allergies.
        He was the first to recognize that patients who had both asthma and nasal polyps, a severe inflammation of the tissue lining the nose or sinuses, were also likely to be unable to tolerate aspirin. Such patients, now said to have Samter's syndrome, may not develop a sensitivity to aspirin, or similar drugs, for decades, but it is important for doctors to recognize the danger.
        Dr. Howard J. Zeitz, a longtime colleague of Dr. Samter, explained, ''It helped the physician understand that if a patient was found to have polyps and asthma but did not yet appear to be sensitive to aspirin, this was a patient who could die at some point if given aspirin.''
        Dr. Zeitz, director of the Asthma, Allergy and Immunology Division at the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford, said Dr. Samter's textbook had been ''the world's first comprehensive text in the field.'' He wrote the book, ''Immunological Diseases'' in the 1950's and saw it through four editions; its fifth edition is called ''Samter's Immunologic Diseases'' (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 1995).
        In the 1930's, Dr. Samter wrote several short political novels, circulated clandestinely, to satirize the Nazis. In an interview in 1983 with an in-house publication of the Grant Hospital of Chicago, he said he had been a motorcycle enthusiast and had become ''almost friends'' with storm troopers at the local repair shop. ''Whenever the Gestapo would call and tell me that it might be unhealthy for me to stay in town, I would hide in Bavaria until the air had cleared,'' he said.
        He immigrated to the United States in 1937, taking a research fellowship at the hospital at the Johns Hopkins University.
        He served as a doctor in World War II, but he developed concussive deafness and was advised to give up any plans for a clinical practice.
        Dr. Samter went to the University of Illinois College of Medicine in Chicago in 1946 to do research. His deafness did not progress as quickly as had been feared, so he was able to resume treating patients as well.
        He was president of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology in 1958-59 and was honored in 1982 as Allergist of the Year by the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America. He helped establish the International Association of Allergology in the 1950's.
        While at the University of Illinois, Dr. Samter met the woman he would marry, Virginia, a medical illustrator. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Dr. Virginia Barry and Dr. Emily Gottlieb, both of Evanston; a son, Dr. Laurens Ackerman of Wilmette, Ill.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        He retired from the University of Illinois in 1975, only to move to Grant Hospital, where he directed the Max Samter Institute of Allergy and Clinical Immunology until 1983. He continued to treat patients until 1992.
        Dr. Samter forged strong bonds with his patients, even inviting parents of allergic children to his home for tea and discussions.
        He also had a practice at home that included the young Dr. Gottlieb, according to the 1983 interview. One family vacation turned into a bit of clinical research, he said, when she wanted to keep a cat she had found.
        ''I took one look at the cat and said, 'This cat goes,' '' he said. ''Mrs. Samter looked at me and said, 'Are you going to spoil the children's vacation?' I said, 'I am not, but you are, but if you want to learn it the hard way, so be it. Let's keep the cat.' What happened was predictable. Within three weeks, Emily got a good-sized attack of bronchial asthma. It was a very impressive experiment.''
      