
        Jaki Byard, a pianist, saxophonist and teacher who recorded with some of jazz's most important figures,  died on Thursday in his house in Hollis, Queens. He was 76.
        Police are investigating the death of Mr. Byard, who was found shot in the home he shared with his two daughters. Denise Byard-Mitchell, one of his daughters, said the family was baffled by the killing, and that she and other family members had been home when Mr. Byard died and had heard nothing.
        Mr. Byard was an extremely important figure in modern jazz for several reasons. In his playing he  spanned the history of jazz, and his improvisations, filled with quick stylistic changes, moved from boogie-woogie to free jazz. He was a stylistic virtuoso, his fecund imagination saw comparisons and contrasts everywhere, and his improvisations were encyclopedic and profound. He also had a sense of humor that rippled through everything he played.
        ''I played Bud Powell solos, and that was a phase,'' Mr. Byard once said in an interview with one of his students, the saxophonist Marty Ehrlich. ''Then there was Garner, and that was a phase, and then Tatum, and then finally I decided to put everything together and say the hell with it, this is it.''
        It made him the perfect accompanist for two of the more well versed musicians of modern jazz, Charles Mingus and Rahasaan Roland Kirk, and Mr. Byard was one of the few jazz pianists capable of keeping up not just with their stylistic references, but also with their humor and volcanic intensity.
        Mr. Byard also taught for several decades and brought his cross-generational sensibility to his students. The re-evaluation of jazz history that began in the late 1970's and early 1980's was partly due to Mr. Byard's encouragement and example.
        Mr. Byard was, early in his career,  an integral part of a little-known jazz scene in Boston. During the late 1940's he worked with the tenor saxophonist Sam Rivers in a band, and worked society jobs, sometimes with the violinist and trumpeter Ray Nance.
        He then took a job with the alto saxophonist Earl Bostic in 1949, and when he returned to Boston he performed as a solo pianist, and later joined the big band led by Herb Pomeroy, one of Boston's most important bands.
        In 1959 he joined Maynard Ferguson's orchestra for two years. Also that year he met the saxophonist Eric Dolphy, and recorded with him on the album ''Outward Bound.''
        In 1961 Dolphy procured Mr. Byard's first recording date for Prestige records, producing ''Here's Jaki,'' which featured the Boston-based drummer Roy Haynes. Mr. Byard also worked with the innovative trumpeter Don Ellis. For the rest of the 60's Mr. Byard became the pianist of choice for one of jazz's many vanguards.
        In the early 1960's he started recording with Mingus, and his playing can be heard on ''The Complete Town Hall Concert,'' from 1962, and the two classic albums Mingus recorded for Impulse, ''Mingus Mingus Mingus Mingus Mingus'' and ''The Black Saint and the Sinner Lady.''
        In 1963 he recorded and worked with the tenor saxophonist Booker Irvin, another Mingus associate, and with Charlie Mariano. Two years later he began an association with Kirk, recording and performing with the saxophonist.
        During this time Mr. Byard began teaching at the New England Conservatory of Music, where he became an important figure in jazz education. He recorded regularly until his death, and when Duke Ellington became ill at the end of his life, filled the piano chair in the Ellington Orchestra. In the late 1970's Mr. Byard led the Apollo Stompers big band in  Boston and New York, and he continued teaching at the New England Conservatory and at the Manhattan School of Music, along with stints at Bennington College, the Hartford School of Music, the Brooklyn Conservatory, the University of Massachusetts and others.
        In addition to Ms. Byard-Mitchell, he is survived by another daughter, Diane, and a son, Gerald, all of Hollis, Queens, four grandsons and six great-grandsons.
      