
        Ben Edwards, one of the most important and productive scenic designers on Broadway for more than 50 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was pneumonia associated with lymphoma, said his wife, the costume designer Jane Greenwood.
        Distinguished and courtly, Mr. Edwards was celebrated for the striking designs he created for plays by Eugene O'Neill, William Inge and other American dramatists, as well as for his work with classics by playwrights including Euripides, Shakespeare and Shaw.
        As a designer, he was triply talented, often doing the settings, lighting and costumes. In recent years, he concentrated on settings, frequently  with his wife as costume designer.
        Influenced by Robert Edmond Jones and Jo Mielziner, he was a master of evocative interiors, creating in fine detail rooms with diverse atmospheres: the rustic tavern of O'Neill's ''Touch of the Poet,'' the small-town homeyness of Inge's ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' and the decaying elegance of Henry James's ''Aspern Papers'' (in Michael Redgrave's adaptation).
        With ease and expertise, he could move into the monumental, with his designs for Robert Whitehead's two productions of ''Medea,'' in 1947 with Judith Anderson and in 1982 with Zoe Caldwell.
        As producer and designer, Mr. Whitehead and Mr. Edwards often worked together. ''He didn't go for expansive excursions, but had a modesty and great imagination,'' Mr. Whitehead said yesterday. ''He gave great beauty and simplicity to the theater.''
        For Mr. Edwards the design did not necessarily have to be realistic, he said, but it ''had to have the truth of the text.''
        The designer Robin Wagner once said that Mr. Edwards had ''a poetic vision of reality.''
        As a demonstration of his versatility, Mr. Edwards created the emblematic design of Richard Burton's ''rehearsal'' version of ''Hamlet'' and the modular settings for ''A Few Good Men'' by Aaron Sorkin.
        Ben Edwards was born in Union Springs, Ala. In 1935 he went to New York to the Feagin School of Dramatic Arts, thinking he might become an actor. Because he had a talent for drawing, he was encouraged to become a scenic designer. In 1936 he worked at the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va. Two years later he designed five productions for a Federal Theater season on Broadway.
        After serving in the Army Air Corps during World War II, he returned to the theater. Beginning with ''Medea,'' he became one of the most prolific Broadway designers, working closely with such directors as Elia Kazan, Jose Quintero and Harold Clurman, and with stars like Katharine Hepburn, creating the sets for ''A Matter of Gravity'' and ''West Side Waltz,'' in which she starred.
        Almost every year he worked on one or more Broadway plays and also designed for the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis and the American Shakespeare Festival.
        Among the scores of Broadway shows for which he designed the scenery were ''Time of the Cuckoo,'' ''The Ponder Heart, ''Waltz of the Toreadors,'' ''A Shot in the Dark,'' ''The Disenchanted,'' ''More Stately Mansions,'' ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' ''Purlie Victorious'' and its musical version ''Purlie,'' ''A Texas Trilogy,'' the Dustin Hoffman revival of ''Death of a Salesman'' and revivals in the late 1980's of ''The Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey into Night,'' both starring Jason Robards.
        He was one of the producers and the designer of Hugh Wheeler's ''Big Fish, Little Fish'' and Edward Albee's adaptation of Carson McCullers's ''Ballad of the Sad Cafe.''
        He also did sets for television, many for David Susskind, and worked in movies, including ''Fort Apache, the Bronx,'' ''Sweet Liberty'' and ''Lovers and Other Strangers.''
        His most recent shows were ''Vita and Virginia'' and the 1996 revival of Herb Gardner's ''Thousand Clowns'' at the Roundabout Theater Company. Although he was often nominated for Tony awards (as producer as well as designer), he did not win one until last year when he was given a  Lifetime Achievement Award.
        In addition to his wife, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by two daughters, Sarah, of Manhattan, and Katherine, of Wilmington, N.C., and a granddaughter.
        Describing his work process in an interview in Theater Crafts magazine, Mr. Edwards said that he began by concentrating on the script: ''You read it and you read it and you think about it,'' and you try not to think about the scenery. From his point of view, the play dictates the setting and the scenery serves the play. ''And in serving the play, you must serve the actors,'' he said, explaining why he paid such attention to detail. Even if the audience did not notice the detail, the actors would be aware of it.
        Colleen Dewhurst, who acted in many plays designed by Mr. Edwards, once said that when ''you walk into whatever atmosphere Ben has created, you know you are home.''
      