
        Germain Green Glidden, a national squash racquets champion, painter, muralist, cartoonist and founder in 1959 of the National Art Museum of Sport, died last Tuesday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 and lived in the Silvermine area of Norwalk.
        Mr. Glidden was born in Binghamton, N.Y.; raised in Englewood, N.J., and educated at Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard.
        His national titles in squash racquets included the intercollegiates (1935 and 1936), singles (1936, 1937 and 1938, retiring undefeated), doubles (1952) and veterans (1953, 1955 and 1956, again retiring undefeated).
        After college, he studied at the Art Students League and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        During World War II, he served as a naval officer in Hawaii teaching instant recognition of planes and surface ships. He then became a portrait artist.
        His works are displayed in the Churchill Library, the Fogg Art Museum and the national halls of fame of baseball, basketball and tennis. The National Art Museum of Sport commissioned his portraits of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George Bush.
        The National Art Museum of Sport resided rent free at Madison Square Garden from 1969 to 1978.
        It is now based in Indianapolis, although many of its paintings, sculptures, prints and photographs have been shown around the nation.
        Its exhibits have included Ruth May's oil painting of Sam Snead teeing off, Stanley Martineau's five-foot-tall sculpture of Bob Cousy in the air, George Wesley Bellows's painting of Jack Dempsey being knocked out of the ring by Luis Firpo, Frederic Remington's painting of a touchdown in a Yale-Princeton football game and Mr. Glidden's portraits of Peggy Fleming, Dorothy Hamill and Ivan Lendl.
        In 1936, Mr. Glidden married Anna Louise Escher of Englewood, N.J. She died in 1987. He is survived by three daughters, Pamela Zapata of New York, Christine Glidden of New Canaan, Conn., and Dianna Glidden of Santa Cruz, Calif., and two grandsons.
        Mr. Glidden once said squash racquets taught him about the demands of life.
        ''It furnishes something of an individual adventure,'' he said, ''almost like going into a prize ring. When you go into a four-walled room or court and shut the door behind you, you know that someone will have to come out a winner. You soon learn what the pressure of competition means, and to me that is a vital part of living.''
      