
        Iron Eyes Cody, the actor who played an Indian shedding a tear at the sight of a littered American landscape in one of television's best-known and most-honored television commercials, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, the police said. He was 94.
        Mr. Cody played the noble Indian in some 100 pictures, including ''Sitting Bull,'' ''Paleface'' and ''A Man Called Horse.'' Sometimes his roles were listed in the credits simply as Indian or Indian Chief. He also made guest appearances on television programs like ''Bonanza,'' ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Rawhide.''
        But his most indelible appearance was in a commercial produced by the former Marsteller agency on behalf of Keep America Beautiful Inc. Introduced on Earth Day in 1971, the commercial showed Mr. Cody shedding a single, eloquent tear at the sight of a landscape befouled by garbage, smoke and other pollutants.
        Belen Escarano. Mr. Cody's caretaker, said yesterday that the actor  originally resisted doing the commercial because, he said, ''Indians don't cry.'' But, Ms. Escarano said, Lady Bird Johnson persuaded him to do the commercial. One version was made with the tear, one without; the version with the tear went on the air.
        Ms. Escarano said the tear was, in fact, glycerine.
        A sequel to the commercial was produced in 1975 and a revamped version of the original was introduced last year.
        Ms. Escarano said Mr. Cody fervently believed in preserving the environment. At one event, she said, Mr. Cody was so upset by adults littering that he asked the M.C. to tell  them to set a better example and then he asked to go home.
        Mr. Cody had strong opinions about how native Americans should be depicted in film, often correcting misperceptions about Indian culture, behavior or history.
        Mr. Cody said he was born in Oklahoma territory to a father, Thomas Long Plume, who was a Cherokee Indian, and a mother, Frances Salpet, who was Cree. His father performed in Wild West shows and circuses.
        Although the television and movie-viewing public generally think of Mr. Cody as an American Indian, his heritage was questioned in 1996 by  The New Orleans Times-Picayune, which reported, based on an interview with a half sister, May Abshire, and baptismal records and other documentation, that Mr. Cody was a second-generation Italian-American from Louisiana.
        Mr. Cody denied that report.
        In the 1950's, Ms. Escarano said, Mr. Cody and his wife, Bertha Parker Cody, hosted a television program explaining Indian history and folklore. They also served as technical advisers on numerous films, sometimes making Indian costumes.
        Mrs. Cody died in 1978, and one of the couple's sons, Arthur, died three years ago. Mr. Cody is survived by another son, Robert Tree, of Phoenix, Ariz., three grandchildren, and a niece.
      