
        Dr. Henry Way Kendall, one of three physicists who shared a Nobel Prize for confirming that tiny particles called quarks were the basic building blocks of matter, died on Monday while on an underwater photography shoot in Wakulla Springs State Park, south of Tallahassee, Fla. He was 72 and lived in Sharon, Mass.
        The local authorities reported that Dr. Kendall, an experienced diver and underwater photographer, had joined a team from National Geographic magazine but was working by himself before his body was found a few feet from shore. An autopsy was being performed.
        Dr. Kendall was also known for his work with the Union of Concerned Scientists, an advocacy group that he helped found in 1969 and led as chairman since 1973.
        Dr. Kendall and his colleagues won the 1990 Nobel Prize in Physics for experiments confirming the existence of quarks, infinitesimally tiny packets of energy that make up protons and neutrons, which were once thought to be matter's fundamental particles. Dr. Richard E. Taylor, a Canadian professor at Stanford University, and Dr. Jerome I. Friedman, a fellow scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, were recognized with Dr. Kendall.
        Their work from 1967 to 1973 validated what had been hypothesized independently in the early 1960's by Dr. Murray Gel-Mann and Dr. George Zweig at the California Institute of Technology. Dr. Gell-Mann named these elusive particles ''quarks'' on a whim, borrowing the word from James Joyce's ''Finnegan's Wake.''
        Dr. Kendall, Dr. Taylor and Dr. Friedman, who first met as graduate students at Stanford, conducted their research at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center using a two-mile-long particle accelerator able to boost beams of electrons to an energy of 22 billion electron-volts. They directed the beams at targets containing liquid hydrogen.
        The purpose was to achieve a special kind of collision that occurs when electrons hit protons (which constitute the nuclei of hydrogen) at certain energies. Initial results were ambiguous. But as the three fine-tuned their instruments, the results clearly showed that both protons and neutrons contained hard, electrically charged, point-like particles corresponding to the quarks foretold in theory.
        That confirmation allowed physicists to proceed confidently with developing what is known as the standard model theory of matter. The Nobel Prize panel applauded their feat as a ''breakthrough in our understanding of matter.''
        In his role with the Union of Concerned Scientists, Dr. Kendall opposed President Ronald Reagan's ''Star Wars'' anti-missile project, and he challenged the concept that such a system could defend American cities from nuclear attack.
        Dr. Kendall consistently warned of the dangers of nuclear weapons, space-based arsenals and radiation leaks from nuclear power generators. His organization also studied the greenhouse effect, a warming of the earth's climate as a result of emissions of heat-trapping gases like carbon dioxide.
        Dr. Kendall, who was born in Boston, graduated from Amherst College in 1950 and received a Ph.D. in nuclear physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1955. He was a National Science Foundation Fellow at M.I.T. at the time. He lectured at Stanford before joining the M.I.T. faculty in 1961, rose to full professor in 1967 and was named as  the J. A. Stratton Professor of Physics in 1991.
        Dr. Kendall is survived by a brother, John, also of Sharon.
      