
        Jimmy Dudley, who joined the Indians' broadcast booth in 1948, their memorable pennant-winning season, and became the highly popular radio voice of Cleveland baseball for two decades, died last Friday in Tucson, Ariz. He was 89 and a member of the broadcasters' wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame.
        A gifted storyteller with a soothing delivery, Dudley, like his contemporaries Red Barber and Mel Allen, was a professionally trained broadcaster in an era when former ballplayers were flocking to play-by-play jobs. And like the voices of Dodger and Yankee baseball, he was a Southerner who gained acclaim far from his roots.
        ''I think our accents appealed to people -- they were sort of graceful, they fit in with the game,'' Dudley, a Virginian, said of the popularity experienced by Southern-bred broadcasters. ''Dixie speaking is slow, leisurely. And baseball is that kind of game.''
        But, in an interview with Curt Smith for ''Voices of the Game'' (Diamond Communications, 1987), Dudley observed how ''the professionals -- the Allens, Barbers, Lindsey Nelson, me -- we were Southern, yes, but even more, we were trained.'' Broadcasting, Dudley said, ''was our life, not something we just stumbled onto when we threw down our bat.''
        Upon joining the Indians' pitching staff in 1986, the knuckleballer Phil Niekro, recalled how he had grown up listening to Indian games in Lansing, Ohio, and remarked: ''Jimmy Dudley was the first Indian hero I had. Then came Wynn, Feller and Boudreau and Garcia.''
        In August 1997, when Niekro was inducted into the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., Dudley was enshrined as well. Earlier that year, Dudley received the Ford C. Frick Award for contributions to baseball broadcasting.
        A native of Alexandria, Va., Dudley played baseball, football and basketball at the University of Virginia, and worked for DuPont after graduating with a degree in chemistry. But in 1937, he turned to broadcasting, taking a job with a radio station in Charlottesville, Va. By the early 1940's, he was doing some play-by-play of Cubs games on WIND as an assistant to the broadcaster Hal Totten.
        After serving as a pilot in the Army Air Forces during World War II, Dudley became an Indians broadcaster in their thrilling 1948 season, when they beat the Boston Red Sox in a playoff, then defeated the Boston Braves in the World Series. ''It was like living a dream,'' Dudley recalled.
        Over his 20 years on WJW and WERE Radio, Dudley was remembered for his game sign-off: ''Lotsa good luck, ya heah?''
        Dudley also broadcast for the Cleveland Browns and Baltimore Colts of the National Football League and worked Ohio State football. He was dismissed by the Indians after the 1967 season -- without an explanation, he said -- then broadcast for the expansion Seattle Pilots in 1969 before retiring to Tucson.
        He is survived by his wife, Angie; a son, Douglas of Carol Stream, Ill.; a daughter, Barbara Wolf of Pittsburgh; a brother, Warren of Dallas, and two grandchildren.
      