
        Brig. Gen. Thomas William Mattingly, a retired cardiologist who treated President Dwight D. Eisenhower during several of his illnesses, died on Friday in Davidson, N.C., where he had lived for the past decade. He was 92.
        Dr. Mattingly, a former chief of cardiology at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, cared for Eisenhower from the time he entered the White House in January 1953 until he died, in 1969. When Eisenhower suffered a coronary thrombosis in 1955 -- and during other acute illnesses -- Dr. Mattingly led the physicians providing day-to-day care.
        He counseled the President and kept the country abreast of his condition and of his doctors' prognoses. In retirement, Dr. Mattingly compiled a detailed medical history of the President for the National Archives at the Eisenhower Library in Abilene, Kan.
        That work illuminated the facts and speculations regarding Eisenhower's health before and during his Presidency. It also became a reference for scholars and legislators concerning medical disclosures, the health of Presidents and other high officials, as well as the matter of Presidential succession.
        Dr. Mattingly spent 24 years in uniform, rising from first lieutenant in 1934 to brigadier general before retiring from the Army Medical Corps in 1958. He then became a consultant in cardiovascular diseases at Walter Reed, the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and Children's Hospital in Washington.
        He served as director of medical education and as a consultant in internal medicine and cardiology at Washington Hospital Center from 1958 to 1962 and as chairman of its department of medicine from then until 1967.
        Dr. Mattingly also served as a consultant to the Surgeon General, the State Department and the President's personal physician at the White House until 1972.
        Thomas Mattingly was born in Marbury, Md. He graduated in 1928 from Georgetown University, where he earned a medical degree two years later. He continued his studies at Walter Reed and the Army Field Service Schools.
        In World War II, he commanded field hospitals in the South Pacific and became the executive officer for the chief surgeon of the armed forces in the southwest Pacific. He was decorated with a Bronze Star.
        Dr. Mattingly's wife, Frances Wannamaker Mattingly, died in 1994 after nearly 60 years of marriage. He is survived by a daughter, Marie E. Weingartner, of Blowing Rock, N.C.; four sons, Thomas W. Jr., of Charlotte, N.C., Michael J., of London, Patrick H., of Providence, R.I., and Frank H., of Staunton, Va.; a sister, Laura M. Mudd of Indian Head, Md., and seven grandchildren.
      