
        Former Representative Jeffery Cohelan, a liberal Democrat from California who served in the House for 12 years before becoming executive director of the Group Health Association in 1970, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 84.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease and cancer, his son Timothy, of San Diego, said.
        In his years in Congress, which spanned the politically turbulent period from 1958 to 1970, Mr. Cohelan (pronounced coh-AY-len) was an advocate for civil rights, the environmental movement and labor causes. His district included half the industrial city of Oakland and the University of California at Berkeley, where student protests erupted over the issue of free speech and the right to assembly in 1964. Later in the 1960's the campus became a center of the antiwar movement.
        In Congress, Mr. Cohelan served on the Government Operations Committee, the District of Columbia Committee and the Armed Services Committee. He was a sponsor of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and floor leader for the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
        Mr. Cohelan also co-sponsored legislation in 1968 that established Redwood National Park, on the northwestern coast of California, and Point Reyes National Seashore, 20 miles northwest of San Francisco.
        An early supporter of the Vietnam War, Mr. Cohelan saw his career fell victim to the antiwar movement in 1970. He lost his seat in the 1970 Democratic primary to a Berkeley city councilman, Ronald V. Dellums, who opposed the war and the military draft. Mr. Dellums went on to serve 14 terms in the House.
        Mr. Cohelan was a milk truck driver in the San Francisco area in 1942 when he was elected secretary-treasurer of Local 302 of the Milk Drivers and Dairy Employees Union. As an undergraduate at Berkeley, he continued to be active in the union, helping to start an in-house union newspaper and initiating a Federal credit union. He went on to serve as a labor consultant for the University of California.
        After graduating from the university in 1950 as an economics major, Mr. Cohelan studied at Leeds and Oxford Universities in 1953 as a Fulbright Scholar. In 1955 he was elected to the Berkeley City Council.
        After his defeat in the Democratic primary in 1970, Mr. Cohelan became a senior director of the Group Health Association of America, a Vanguard health care organization. He retired from the health association in 1979.
        Besides his son Timothy, Mr. Cohelan is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dr. Evelyn Cohelan of Washington; another son, Terrence, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two daughters, Pamela Benson of Washington and Catherine Ulmer of Walnut Creek, Calif.; a sister, six grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      