
        Harry Holiday Jr., a former chief executive of the steelmaker Armco Inc. and a world champion swimmer, died on Tuesday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Village of Golf, Fla., and Highlands, N.C.
        The cause was a heart attack, Terry B. Adamson, his son-in-law, said.
        Mr. Holiday, who was known for his optimistic determination, helped lead the steel industry through the boom of the 1960's and the troubled times that followed in the 1970's and 80's. He frequently called on the Federal Government to insure that steel imports were legal, and, facing an economic downturn in the 1970's, pushed Armco to diversify.
        ''Harry was a first-class manager,'' said Nicholas F. Brady, a former Treasury Secretary. ''He ran Armco at an extraordinary time when the company needed to diversify. Most of the people in the company believed that steel was their business. But Harry had the vision to know that some changes had to be made.''
        The future for Mr. Holiday, who was born in Butler, Pa., seemed almost predestined. His father was the plant manager at Armco's Ford Steel Wheel Company in Butler.
        He graduated from the University of Michigan and served as an officer in the Army ordnance corps.
        Mr. Holiday joined Armco as an assistant metallurgist in the company's Middletown, Ohio, plant. In the next 36 years, he worked his way through the executive ranks, becoming president of Armco in 1974 and chief executive five years later. Mr. Holiday retired from the company in 1985.
        In addition to Mr. Holiday's business accomplishments, he was one of the world's best swimmers in the backstroke. During the 1940's, he set 7 world records, 18 American records and won 6 National Collegiate Athletic Association swimming championships.
        In the 1944 national amateur championships at the New York Athletic Club, Mr. Holiday, who was 6 foot 5, became the first swimmer to beat Adolf Kiefer, generally regarded as the best in the backstroke up to that time. Mr. Holiday was named to the 1944 Olympic team, but the games were canceled because of World War II.
        The war may have robbed Mr. Holiday of an Olympic gold medal and a place as an American legend. Johnny Weismuller, who won five Olympic gold medals in the 1920's, and Buster Crabbe, an Olympic champion in 1932, became household names after their victories. Mr. Holiday was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in 1991.
        He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Kay Watson Holiday; a brother, Matt, of Tucson, Ariz.; a daughter, Edith E., of Washington; two sons, Harry 3d, of King of Prussia, Pa., and Albert, of Middletown, Ohio,  and five grandchildren.
      