
        Lorin H. Tryon Jr., whose lifelong love of cars made him a leading connoisseur of classic automobiles, died on Feb. 12 at the San Ramon Valley Medical Center in San Ramon, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Danville, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said the Blackhawk Automotive Museum, of which Mr. Tryon was president.
        He was best known for his 27-year involvement with the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, an annual car show that is regarded as the leading event of its kind.
        As co-chairman of the judged competition, along with Jules Heumann, Mr. Tryon oversaw its growth from a small regional event on the Monterey Peninsula to one that attracts classic car aficionados and entries from around the world.
        Mr. Tryon, a third-generation Californian, was born in San Francisco in 1927 and served in the Army in World War II before graduating from the University of California at Berkeley.
        His paternal grandfather was one of California's first automobile dealers; at the age of 7, his friends say, Lorin Tryon was running his own 10-cent car wash at his family's home, picking up and delivering his customers' cars, driving them himself when he was barely tall enough to peer over the dashboard.
        Mr. Tryon's involvement with Pebble Beach happened by chance. Mr. Heumann said that while he and Mr. Tryon were at another car show in 1971, they discussed various ways they would improve the Pebble Beach competition if they were in charge. One organizer of the event overhead them and challenged them to make good on their words.
        In 1972, when they took over the Concours, Mr. Heumann and Mr. Tryon instituted a change in vehicle judging that was regarded then as revolutionary, asking experts from each class of automobiles presented to do the judging. Previously, generalists rather than specialists had judged each class since the Pebble Beach competition started in 1950.
        Subsequently, Mr. Tryon and Mr. Heumann continued to upgrade both the quality of the cars in the competition and the way they were judged; eventually, the phrase ''restored to Pebble Beach standards'' entered the car collector's lexicon as a synonym for the highest quality.
        Last year the actor Jerry Seinfeld entered examples of the first and last generations of the Porsche 911. The 1990 best-of-show winner was a 1938 Bugatti Type 57SC Atlantic, owned by the designer Ralph Lauren. The entertainer Jay Leno has also entered cars in the competition, which is held every August on the 18th fairway at the Lodge at Pebble Beach.
        Mr. Tryon was president of the Blackhawk Automotive Museum, which displays cars manufactured from 1925 to 1948 in Danville, site of the 1997 conference of the Fifth World Forum for Motor Museums and the first International Automotive Design Forum at Blackhawk, to be held next Aug. 31.
        In 1998, Mr. Tryon and Mr. Heumann were co-recipients of the Meguiar's Award, given annually to car collectors for outstanding contributions to the field.
        Mr. Tryon is survived by his wife, Dolores; a daughter, Catherine; a son, Bill, and stepchildren and grandchildren.
        Mr. Tryon himself had owned many classic cars, among them a 1930 Duesenberg Murphy Town Car, a 1931 Cadillac V16 Fleetwood Landaulet and a 1932 Packard 12 Dietrich Runabout. Mr. Heumann recalled that the Cadillac ''had an unusual high-speed rear end, and Lorin loved to drive it at 100 miles per hour.''
      