
        Gene Siskel, the slighter, intense half of the popular Siskel and Ebert team of dueling movie reviewers, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Chicago, two weeks after leaving the long-running syndicated television program for further recuperation from brain surgery last May.
        He was 53 and with his portly partner, Roger Ebert, had made their signature thumbs up -- or down -- verdicts a powerful influence over a movie's success or failure.
        Until Mr. Siskel, the movie reviewer for The Chicago Tribune, and Mr. Ebert, the critic for The Chicago Sun-Times, were paired for a local public television program, ''Opening Soon at a Theater Near You,'' in 1975, film critics, for all the intellectual pretensions of some and the safe sure judgments of others, had little sway over a movie's fate.
        That was partly because most reviewers had largely local followings and partly because huge Hollywood advertising and promotion campaigns could override even negative national reviews.
        But the crackling on-air chemistry between Mr. Siskel and Mr. Ebert, their sometimes spirited, even caustic, disagreements and, ultimately, their opinions that consistently reflected broad public tastes, quickly made them such powerful persuaders that movie ads routinely included their thumbs up endorsements.
        It was a reflection of their personal popular appeal that when their program went into national syndication in 1982, as ''At the Movies,'' the title was soon changed to ''Siskel & Ebert at the Movies,'' and then simply to ''Siskel & Ebert.''
        Mr. Siskel, a native of Chicago who was brought up by an aunt and uncle in a rollicking household that included two siblings and three cousins, did not grow up dreaming of becoming a movie critic.
        Intending to be a trial lawyer, he majored in philosophy at Yale, but two years after his graduation in 1967, a letter of recommendation from a Yale mentor and teacher, the author John Hersey, secured him a job at The Tribune.
        Seven months after starting as a neighborhood reporter he was promoted to film critic.
        Once he and Mr. Ebert became television stars, the two men continued their newspaper reviews and accepted solo sideline work, Mr. Siskel as a reviewer for ''CBS This Morning,'' and for WBBM-TV in Chicago.
        If viewers sometimes had trouble remembering which of the two men was which (Ebert has often been known as the fat one; Siskel, by extension, as the skinny one) no one would have thought they came from the same mold.
        Even when they ultimately agreed that a movie was good or bad, they were sure to disagree on why, and their sometimes not-so-good-natured arguments were seen as so entertaining that the two men became favorite guests on late night television talk shows, generally taking turns sitting next to the host.
        Mr. Siskel, who had returned to work shortly after his surgery to remove a brain tumor last year, took wry note of their rivalry when he announced his leave earlier this month.
        ''I'm in a hurry to get well,'' he said. ''because I don't want Roger to get more screen time than I.''
        His survivors include his wife, Marlene, two daughters and a son.
        Correction:  February 22, 1999, Monday  An obituary in some editions yesterday about the movie critic Gene Siskel omitted a survivor in some copies. Besides his daughters, Kate and Callie, Mr. Siskel is survived by a son, Will.
        The obituary also referred incorrectly in some copies to Mr. Siskel's television debut with Roger Ebert; their first program began in 1975, not 1969. (The obituary is reprinted today on page B8 for readers who did not receive it.)
      