
        Paul Schmidt, a librettist, translator, poet, teacher and actor who collaborated with many major avant-garde theater artists, died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center on Friday. He was 65.
        The cause of death was complications of AIDS, said his brother Jim.
        Mr. Schmidt was known best for translating the complete works of Rimbaud and the plays of Chekhov. He also devoted many years to translating the complete works of Velemir Khlebnikov, a little-known Russian poet who died of malnutrition in 1922 at age 37. A production of Khlebnikov's play ''Zangezi,'' first seen in Los Angeles in 1986 and directed by Peter Sellars (it was later staged at the Brooklyn Academy of Music) was one of Mr. Schmidt's several notable collaborations with leading  experimental directors.
        Another was his libretto for ''Alice,'' an adaptation of Lewis Carroll's ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' and ''Through the Looking Glass,'' which was a high point of the Brooklyn Academy of Music's Next Wave Festival in 1995.
        A collaboration with the director Robert Wilson and the composer Tom Waits, ''Alice'' was praised by The New York Times for elucidating ''an international theatrical style in which Minimalism, German Expressionism, Japanese kabuki and American pop bump up against one another in a grand, eye-catching pageant.'' Mr. Schmidt's libretto was described as capturing ''a strain of late-19th-century romantic lyricism and drawing it out with a graceful literary refinement.''
        For the Wooster Group's 1990 theater piece, ''Brace Up!'' Mr. Schmidt supplied a translation of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters'' that incorporated dance sequences and video, and he also appeared in the production. It was one of many small roles he played on the stage. For JoAnne Akalaitis's 1989 production at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis of Jean Genet's five-and-a-half-hour, 100-character play ''The Screens,'' he created the text out of three versions the playwright had left behind.
        Other playwrights whose works he translated for theater productions include Gogol, Brecht and Marivaux. ''Black Sea Follies,'' his original play about Stalin and Shostakovich (with music by the composer) was presented by Playwrights Horizons and the Music Theater Group in 1986.
        Mr. Schmidt was born in Brooklyn and attended Colgate and Harvard, where he wrote his dissertation for his doctorate in Slavic languages on the influential Russian director Vsevolod Meyerhold. While at Harvard, he became involved with a now legendary circle of friends who produced plays at the Agassiz Theater in Cambridge in the summers.
        The group included the actors Lindsay Crouse, Tommy Lee Jones, John Lithgow, Kathryn Walker, Stockard Channing (to whom Mr. Schmidt was married for seven years) and the director and writer Tim Mayer, whose collected poems and plays he edited under the title ''Running From America.''
        From 1958 to 1960, he served in United States Army intelligence. From 1967 to 1976, he taught Slavic languages at the University of Texas in Austin. He published two volumes of poetry, ''Night Life'' and ''Winter Solstice'' (both 1996, Painted Leaf Press).
        A collection of Rimbaud translations with photographs by Robert  Mapplethorpe, titled ''A Season in Hell,'' was in published in 1997 (Little, Brown).
        In addition to his brother Jim, he is survived by three sisters, Mary Kay Murray, Margaret Sand and Anne  Schmidt; another brother, Thomas, and his friend Mark Bennett.
      