
        Mario A. Zacchini, the last surviving member of the original generation of human cannonballs, whose routine employment was being explosively propelled from a cannon across a circus tent into a net, succumbed to old age on Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 87 and lived in Tampa.
        Mr. Zacchini, who was customarily launched at a speed of 90 miles an hour while accompanied by a fanfare from the circus band and a roar from the silver-painted cannon, took flight several thousand times, usually three times a day.
        He often said that ''flying isn't the hard part; landing in the net is.''
        Mr. Zacchini was the next-to-youngest son of the nine children of Ildebrando Zacchini, a gymnast who ran away with a circus and subsequently created the Circus Olympia in Italy in the early 1900's.
        Eventually five of the seven brothers flew from a cannon; Mario was the last survivor of the nine children.
        In addition to being three-ring cannon fodder, he spent years performing an Argentine gaucho act in his father's circus and later in the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
        ''Mario was one of the world's most foremost rope twirlers, a terrific gaucho who actually did a back somersault through the lasso,'' Mario's nephew Hugo said in an interview.
        Hugo Zacchini said the family came up with the idea for the act and built its first cannon in 1922 on the island of Malta. The attraction created such a sensation that soon two teams of flying Zacchinis were crisscrossing Europe.
        John Ringling discovered the Zacchinis performing in the Tivoli Gardens in Copenhagen and brought them to the Ringling Circus by 1929, the nephew said. Two of Mario's older brothers, Bruno and Hugo, introduced the human cannonball act to the Ringling show.
        In 1934, Hugo and another brother, Victor, began performing a double cannonball act, being catapulted nearly simultaneously. Mario put aside his lasso to replace Victor that year.
        After the Zacchini family's contract with Ringling expired in the late 1930's, Mario Zacchini continued to be a human cannonball at circuses and carnivals and at the World's Fair in New York. At times he was blasted over two Ferris wheels before landing in the net. He retired from cannoneering in the early 1940's and put together his own carnival, which toured the country for years.
        A decade later the next generation of Zacchinis took up human cannonballing, performing with the Ringling circus from 1958 to 1963, said the nephew Hugo, In 1965 there were five different Zacchini cannon acts performing around the United States. Hugo, who is a son of Mario's brother Edmondo, said he was the last Zacchini to be a human cannonball; his final flight was on Aug. 29, 1991.
        While the Zacchinis always acknowledged that their shattering cannon blasts were purely sound effects (achieved by igniting half a cup of black gunpowder), Mario and his family never revealed the secret of the Zacchini launching mechanism, to deter copycats.
        But other circus performers have said that the propulsion was accomplished by a jolt of compressed air that moved a platform upon which the performers stood. These days, many human cannonballs from other circus families are launched with elastic bungee cords.
        Mario Zacchini is survived by his wife, Lydia; a daughter, Yvonne, and two sons, Mario Jr. and Tyrone, all of Tampa.
      