
        Teruo Kawamoto, the head of an organization of victims of Minamata disease, a debilitating illness of the nervous system caused by mercury poisoning, died on Thursday in a hospital in Minamata, a city in southwestern Japan. He was 67 and lived in Minamata.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Aiichiro Kawamoto, according to The Associated Press, which reported that his death was not directly related to Minamata disease.
        At his death Mr. Kawamoto was a three-term member of Minamata's municipal assembly.
        The Daily Yomiuri, a Tokyo newspaper, reported on Saturday that thousands of victims still suffer from Minamata disease, and that hundreds have died. It said that the Chisso Corporation, a chemical producer, was responsible for the poisoning, and that a key role in helping victims obtain compensation was played by Mr. Kawamoto, a native of Kumamoto Prefecture, which includes Minamata.
        In 1968 he asked to be officially designated a Minamata disease sufferer, and he rode around on his bicycle looking for other victims. He went on to take part in a sit-in outside Chisso's head office in Tokyo and in litigation against the corporation.
        Minamata disease has now also been diagnosed in the Amazon rain  forest, the British journal New Scientist reported in its Feb. 6 issue. The journal said that it was the first time that the disease had been diagnosed outside Minamata.
        It reported that two experts, at universities in Japan and Canada,  had said that the Amazon rain forest victims had consumed methyl mercury in fish, just as the victims from Minamata had eaten fish from the waters of a nearby bay, which the journal said had been polluted by mercury from an industrial plant.
        In consequence, as New Scientist put it, ''In the 1950's, some 1,500 people from Minamata suffered terrible damage to their nervous systems.''
        Besides his son, Aiichiro, Mr. Kawamoto is survived by his wife and another child.
      