
        The Rev. Walter Lini, an Anglican priest who led the 83 Melanesian islands of Vanuatu and their 172,000 people to nationhood, died on Sunday. The former Prime Minister was 57 and had governed the country for 11 years before he stepped down in 1991.
        Father Lini was born on Pentecost, one of the larger of what were then the New Hebrides, a Y-shaped cluster of islands administered jointly by Britain and France. He had studied for the ministry in New Zealand and was serving as a priest and as leader of the New Hebrides National party when the colonial rulers announced plans to withdraw by 1980.
        Because his party dominated the colonial parliament, Father Lini was poised to become Prime Minister. But a month before independence, a French-speaking planter named Jimmy Stevens led 600 bowmen to take control of the island of Espiritu Santo. Supported by some local French-speakers, Mr. Stevens wanted to withdraw the island from the about-to-be-proclaimed nation of Vanuatu, which means ''our eternal land.''
        Father Lini sought aid from Britain, which, over the objections of France, reluctantly sent 200 Royal Marines, who served as a peacekeepers on Espiritu Santo long enough for the independence ceremonies to proceed on schedule. Once the new flag went up, Father Lini signed a defense pact with Papua New Guinea, which sent forces to replace the British Marines, quickly arrested Mr. Stevens and put down the rebellion.
        The country Father Lini took over was poor in almost everything but fish. It had only 30 college graduates.
        Still, Vanuatu found itself vulnerable to geopolitical pressures. It sought to trade fishing rights to both China and Taiwan. Father Lini's Government angered France by its support for independence groups in New Caledonia and its opposition to nuclear testing in the Pacific. It irritated the United States by calling for a reduction in United States naval traffic, recognizing Libya, and welcoming Vietnam and Cuba to establish embassies while holding off the United States.
        But Father Lini scoffed at suggestions that he supported Communism. Acknowledging the need for international aid, he spurned any great leaps forward, declaring: ''We have a lot of resources that we have not exploited, but we are not so much in a hurry to exploit all of these. We lived here many years before Britain and France came, and we will continue to live here for many more years. Why should we use everything now?''
        Father Lini's party won re-election in 1983, maintaining strong support among the country's Protestants and English-speakers. But in 1987 the party split, and some legislators boycotted Parliament. Vanuatu's largely ceremonial President dissolved the legislature and appointed a new Prime Minister. After Australia and other countries in the region refused to recognize the move, the President and his new Prime Minister were removed, and Father Lini was restored. But his authority was diminished and in 1991 he lost his party leadership and stepped down as Prime Minister.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary, four sons and two daughters.
      