
        Andre Dubus, a prize-winning author celebrated for his short stories in ''Dancing After Hours'' and other collections, died Wednesday at his home in Haverhill, Mass. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Gabrielle Brooks, a representative of Mr. Dubus's publisher, Alfred A. Knopf.
        In 1986, Mr. Dubus (pronounced Dub-YOOSE) stopped to help a distraught motorist by the side of a highway outside of Boston and was hit by a passing car. As a result, he suffered massive injuries. He had one leg amputated and lost the use of the other leg, and used a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
        Before the accident, he was a writer of short stories with a small circle of admirers, married to his third wife, with his sixth child on the way. Afterward, he went through a dozen operations and was overcome by depression. His marriage ended. It was several years before he came to terms with the fact that he was no longer, in his words, ''a biped,'' and began writing stories again. For him, it was a magical rebirth.
        In 1988, a book of ''Selected Stories'' was published and he won a MacArthur award. In 1996, Mr. Dubus won the $30,000 Rea Award for short fiction, and the following year ''Dancing After Hours'' was a finalist for a National Book Critics Circle award. With that and other works he achieved a wider popularity. In a strange way, his transformation as a writer was partly attributable to his disability. As he said in an interview in 1996, ''My condition increased my empathy and rid me of my fear of disability and misfortune.'' Asked if he had become a better writer after the accident, he said, ''I hope so. That would be a blessing.''
        Throughout his career, he was devoted to the art of the short story, calling himself ''a volunteer'' to the form. In the 14 stories in ''Dancing After Hours,'' he wrote with great sensitivity about small, quiet lives, sometimes interrupted by violence. In them, the ordinary becomes the extraordinary as love often triumphs over loneliness -- and disability. Many of the stories are told from a woman's point of view and deal with men who are physically impaired.
        In the poignant title story, people in a neighborhood bar in a small town share a long evening of mutual understanding. What unites them is a quadriplegic who has a remarkable sense of self. He has become fearless after his accident, even parachuting from a plane. Mr. Dubus said he thought of the story in western terms: a stranger comes into town and when he leaves things have changed. In common with the character in the story, the author, a man with a natural ebullience, dominated his wheelchair.
        This story and others take place in working-class towns north of Boston, the area in which Mr. Dubus lived. He said that he profited from William Faulkner's advice to writers: ''You have to have write about your postage stamp.'' Reviewing the collection in the New York Times Book Review, Richard Bausch said that the title story was ''one of the most gracious and exquisite works of fiction I have ever read,'' adding that the book ''is suffused with grace, bathed in a kind of spiritual glow.''
        Mr. Dubus was born in Lake Charles, La., where he went to McNeese State College. He joined the Marines thinking it would be ''a romantic way to make a living as a writer.'' He rose to the rank of captain, but left the military after six years. He studied writing with the novelist Richard Yates at the University of Iowa, wrote his first novel, ''The Lieutenant'' (1967), and published stories in various magazines. The first book was followed by ''Separate Flights,'' ''Adultery & Other Choices,'' ''Finding a Girl in America,'' ''The Times Are Never So Bad,'' ''Voices from the Moon'' and ''The Last Worthless Evening.''
        Then on that night in 1986, he did a good deed and suffered awful consequences. In 1987 in Cambridge, Mass., a group of writers including Ann Beattie, John Irving, Stephen King, John Updike, Kurt Vonnegut and Mr. Yates gave a series of readings from their work to raise money for the injured author. In ''Broken Vessels,'' a collection of autobiographical essays published in 1991, he thanked the writers and those who came to the readings because they ''made me feel, during a very bad time, that I had hundreds of friends I didn't even know.''
        In the Introduction to ''Broken Vessels,'' Tobias Woolf wrote: ''Andre has made of his wheelchair a place to see the world more clearly than ever. I was struck again and again by the range of his vision, by its depth and compassion, and by the music by which he gives it voice.''
        He is survived by two sisters, Elizabeth Baldridge and Kathryn Selleck; six children, Suzanne, Andre, Jeb, Nicole, Cadence and Madeleine, and five grandchildren.
        Last year he published ''Meditations from a Movable Chair,'' a collection of essays evoking themes in his stories. In one, he wrote about his accident, an event that continued to haunt him. Driving back to Boston in 1996, he passed by the place where it occurred and remembered his thoughts at the time: ''I had the windows down on the car. I could smell the trees in the forest.'' He said that he had thought about turning off at an exit, but then decided to stay on the highway. If he had taken that exit, he said, ''Who knows what would have happened?''
        A Roman Catholic, Mr. Dubus had deep religious convictions and believed in the presence of God and angels in everyday life. To the suggestion that his ''angel'' must have blinked on the night of the accident, he said he was lucky not to have been killed or paralyzed: ''Maybe the angel grabbed my collar and pulled me a little higher.''
      