
        Sir Anthony Nutting, a Deputy Foreign Secretary who sacrificed a potentially brilliant political career by resigning over Britain's involvement in the 1956 attack on Suez, died of heart failure at his home in London on Tuesday. He was 79.
        He had been the youngest member of Winston Churchill's Government after World War II and was a rising figure in the Conservative Party when he attended a fateful meeting of high-ranking British and French officials on Oct. 14, 1956.
        Israel was about to attack Egypt, which under President Gamal Abdel Nasser had nationalized the Suez Canal. Sir Anthony learned at the secret gathering that Prime Minister Anthony Eden, his mentor, and the French had agreed that once fighting began they would send in their own paratroopers. The public justification would be the need to separate Israeli and Egyptian forces, but the true purpose, the leaders agreed, would be to support Israel, seize the canal and undermine Nasser.
        Sir Anthony, who two years earlier negotiated the final steps of the treaty with Nasser under which British troops withdrew from Suez, believed that the mission was mistaken and deceitful. When British planes took to the air on Oct. 31, he decided to quit. For security reasons, he did not give the customary resignation speech to the House of Commons, and his unexplained action proved so unpopular that his constituents forced him to give up his seat in Parliament.
        Harold Macmillan, who would later become Prime Minister himself, had urged him not to resign, saying that ''you will lead the party one day.'' Instead, Sir Anthony, at 36, found his political career in ruins.
        He later wrote of feeling suddenly ''bereft of friends, a castaway adrift on a sea of anger and recrimination, an object of distrust, torn between loyalty to principle and loyalty to friends and associates.''
        The British action ended up convulsing Parliament, speeding the end of the Eden Government, damaging the country's standing in the United Nations, straining London's relationship with Washington and complicating the West's attempt to obtain condemnation of the Soviet invasion of Hungary days later.
        Sir Anthony kept his silence until 1967 when in his book ''No End of a Lesson'' he explained that backing the Suez action would have put him in the position of lying to the House of Commons and the United Nations.
        ''Either I had to tell the whole story as I saw it, or say nothing at all,'' he wrote. ''And as long as any of the chief protagonists of the Suez war still held high office in Britain, it would clearly have been a grave disservice to the nation, which they still led and represented in the councils of the world, to have told the whole story.''
        Harold Anthony Nutting was born into a wealthy family in 1920 with estates in England and Scotland, and he was educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he studied agriculture and kept a pack of hounds. He was unable to serve in World War II because of a steeplechasing injury, and he entered the Foreign Service. Both of his elder brothers were killed on active duty.
        He was working at the British Embassy in Paris when France fell to the Germans, and from 1940 to 1944 he was assigned to the embassy in Madrid, where he organized escape routes for Allied servicemen caught behind the lines.
        He won his parliamentary seat in 1945 and quickly became chairman of the Young Conservatives. He led the British delegation to the United Nations General Assembly and Disarmament Commission in 1954 and 1955. He was an internationalist, an Arabist and an early enthusiast for British membership of the European Economic Community.
        In his later years, still a political outcast, he divided his time between writing biographies and histories in London, hunting in Shropshire and  gentleman farming in Scotland. He is survived by his third wife, Margarita, and a daughter and two sons from his first marriage.
      