
        Stanley Dance, a jazz critic, Ellington specialist and record producer, died on Tuesday at the Remington Club in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Vista, Calif.
        Mr. Dance is perhaps best known as a member of Duke Ellington's close-knit group of friends, and for nearly 70 years was one of Ellington's main interpreters. They met in 1933 at an Ellington concert in London, forming a friendship that lasted until Ellington's death in 1974. Mr. Dance delivered the eulogy at Ellington's funeral at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.
        During Ellington's trips to England, he was a regular guest in the Dance family home in Braintree, outside London. Mr. Dance met his wife, Helen, at the office of Ellington's agent, Irving Mills. After moving to the United States in 1959, Mr. Dance traveled regularly with Ellington, wrote numerous sets of liner notes and essays about the music and helped Ellington with his autobiography, ''Music Is My Mistress.''
        After serving in the British Army during World War II, Mr. Dance began producing records. In 1958 Felsted records sent him to the United States to record for it, and he took back sessions that included dates by Coleman Hawkins, Earl Hines and others. Over the years he produced record dates for English Columbia, French RCA and Black Lion records, often with members of the Duke Ellington orchestra.
        After moving to the United States, he began writing concise, well-argued essays and reviews for The New York Herald Tribune, Saturday Review, Jazz Review, Downbeat and other publications. He also began writing a series of books for Scribners that included ''The World of Swing,'' ''The World of Duke Ellington,'' ''The World of Count Basie'' and ''The World of Earl Hines,'' along with biographies of Charlie Barnett and Ellington. He won a Grammy for his 1963 liner notes for the recording ''The Ellington Era'' (Columbia).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their children, Theresa Dance-Bennink of Omemee, Ontario; Rupert Dance of Hopkinton, N.H.;  Francis Dance of Woodbury, Conn., and Maria Lindley of Carlsbad, Calif.
      