
        The name Cockburn's means port to many aficionados around the world.
        But grape farmers in the ruggedly mountainous Douro River valley of Portugal still call the shipper Casa Smithes. To them it is irrelevant that John Henry Smithes, who died in England on Jan. 22 at the age of 88, retired 29 years ago as a director at Cockburn Smithes (pronounced CO-burn SMITH-eez), one of the world's major port houses.
        An outdoorsman, Mr. Smithes immersed himself in grape-growing and wine-making and became one of the trade's most influential blenders. He shaped Cockburn's dryish, lean, elegant style, especially such perennial favorites as Fine Ruby and the flagship Special Reserve.
        Mr. Smithes was equally renowned for ''elevating spitting to a high art,'' said Peter M. Cobb, a director. ''He had spittoons all over the place,'' Mr. Cobb said. ''He spat right into them from six feet away. The wine never hit the floor.'' For once, famously bad English teeth proved a boon. ''One thing John didn't have many of was teeth,'' Mr. Cobb said. So nothing ''got in the way'' of a wine's trajectory in the Cockburn's tasting room at Vila Nova de Gaia.
        Friends and associates described Mr. Smithes as an unpretentious, hot-tempered, lovable eccentric. After private school, he joined the family business in Cockburn's London office in 1930. At a moment when dark suits, stiff collars and bowler hats defined proper business attire, he clung to a disreputable tweed jacket, brown brogues and a rakish slouch hat.
        Such earthy irreverence better suited Oporto, Portugal, where he joined his father and became a partner in 1938. But World War II approached, and he and Nancy Smithes, to whom he would be married for 65 years, went home to England. Both joined the Royal Air Force.
        As a pilot Mr. Smithes could not land his fighters flawlessly; he inflicted more damage on them than Nazi fire did. His superiors turned him into an observer and rear gunner. Back in Portugal in 1946, he proved unpilotlike, too, in his Fords.
        If he did not master switchback roads, he knew almost every inch of every quinta, or estate, of the steeply terraced Douro region. He appreciated the characters and explored the commercial prospects of red grapes virtually unknown outside Portugal: touriga nacional, tinta roriz, tinta barroca, touriga francesa, tinta cao and mourisco.
        Mr. Smithes started Cockburn's first experimental vineyard, at Tua, in 1933, with many clones of indigenous varieties. ''The experiments were not acted on for 30 years,'' Mr. Cobb said, ''because it took the trade 30 years to realize that it could not rely on independent growers to provide high-quality fruit.'' In 1975, five years after Mr. Smithes retired, Cockburn's started buying and planting acreage in a big way -- his way.
        His signature broad-brimmed hat and red bandanna made him look like the archetypal Mexican bandit of 1940's B-movies.
        Mr. Smithes, whose tasting abilities were the talk of the valley, defined and classified hundreds of separate lots of wine before blending them. He was brilliant at judging young ports and cask-aged ports, and in putting together the blends of ruby ports and old tawnies. But some thought he was less adept at producing vintage ports.
        Although he ultimately took himself out of the Douro, he could not take the Douro out of himself. After retiring to south Devon, he bought and converted a property into a miniature quinta, with terraces, vines and a bay view. Twice a year he revisited Cockburn's (now owned by the Britain-based Allied Domecq Spirits and Wine): at harvest and in springtime, when the new wine had settled down.
        Mr. Smithes once gave an old friend, David Lett, owner of the Eyrie Vineyards in the Willamette Valley of Oregon, a wooden port-holding canteen inscribed:
        I must have one at 11,
        'Tis a duty which must be done,
        If I don't have one at 11,
        I must have 11 at 1.
        In Mr. Lett's view, ''It was the one at 11 that propelled John to 88 years.'' Above all other wine qualities, Mr. Smithes prized ''grip,'' a term that characterizes the length and quality of a port's finish, or aftertaste. His associates also interpreted it as the guiding principle of his life.
      