
        Charles Allan Gerhardt, a record producer who recorded many of the great classical music performers of the 1950's and 1960's and who also conducted a series of classic film-score albums, died on Feb. 22 at Mercy Hospital in Redding, Calif. He was 72 and lived in Redding.
        Robert E. Benson, a music critic and friend of Mr. Gerhardt, said the cause was complications from surgery for brain cancer.
        Mr. Gerhardt was born in Detroit in 1927 and grew up in Little Rock, Ark., where he began studying the piano at age 5 and composition at 9. After service in the Navy as a chaplain's assistant during World War II, he studied music and science at several colleges, including the University of Illinois and the University of Southern California.
        Mr. Gerhardt, who was fascinated with recordings, joined the technical staff of RCA Victor in 1950, first to prepare long-playing reissues of recordings by Enrico Caruso and Artur Schnabel and then to assist at sessions for Vladimir Horowitz, Wanda Landowska, Kirsten Flagstad and William Kapell. He also worked closely with Arturo Toscanini, who encouraged him to study conducting. By the early 1960's, he was overseeing RCA's productions in London.
        As a producer, Mr. Gerhardt's first major project was ''A Festival of Light Classical Music,'' sold through the Reader's Digest in 1960. He also produced a Beethoven cycle conducted by Rene Leibowitz, in 1961, that is prized by collectors and has recently been reissued by Chesky Records.
        In 1964, Mr. Gerhardt formed an orchestra of London musicians for use at his recording sessions. It was incorporated as the National Philharmonic Orchestra in 1970, and besides producing its recordings with a variety of conductors and soloists, Mr. Gerhardt conducted it himself on recordings of standard repertory works and contemporary pieces.
        His best-known series was an extensive collection of film scores that began in 1972 with ''The Sea Hawk,'' the first major overview of Erich Korngold's film music, and included volumes devoted to the works of Max Steiner, Miklos Rozsa, Franz Waxman, Alfred Newman, Dmitri Tiomkin, Bernard Hermann and John Williams. The success of his Korngold disk also led to a reinvestigation of Korngold's serious music, and in 1975 he produced the first recording of the composer's opera, ''Die Tote Stadt.''
        Mr. Gerhardt retired from RCA in 1986 and worked as a freelance producer until 1997. No immediate family members survive.
      