
        Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, the traditional King of the Asante people, has died in his palace in Kumasi, Ghana, the ancient capital of the Asante, who once ruled a powerful and complex political confederation in West Africa. He was 79.
        Officials confirmed his death but did not give a date.
        Given the deep veneration in which the King was held by millions of Asante (also called Ashantis), the funeral is expected to draw enormous crowds. In August 1995, when the King celebrated the 25th anniversary of his reign, he was carried on a platform of gold ornaments through a crowd of 70,000 guests.
        During his 29-year reign the King, a former lawyer, was the spiritual and cultural leader of his people, and his power extended into every-day life, particularly in the southern half of Ghana, where Asante influence remains paramount.
        He ruled on land disputes, and judges whom he appointed settle civil suits and imprison criminals. He received rents on royal lands, and it was understood that any major development in Asante lands needed approval. Most Ghanaian gold mines are in these lands.
        In the manner of earlier Asante rulers, who were uncles chosen in a matrilineal system, he rarely appeared in public, and when he did it was with mannered regal austerity. Decked in gold and wrapped in the intricately woven kente cloth for which his people are famous, he walked beneath a parasol held by aides to maintain a ''spiritual equilibrium.''
        He spoke mainly through a royal spokesman. As Adum Bawuah, an Asante translator in New York, noted: ''The Asante don't respect you if you speak too literally. In Twi, if you don't know how to speak in parables, you're a nobody.''
        The King was very much a somebody, and was expert in drawing allusions as required.
        The King was born into the royal family in Kumasi, attended an Anglican mission school, and later trained as a surveyor. In 1951 he left the country, then still called the Gold Coast, for London, where he studied law. In 1962 he returned to an independent Ghana, where he practiced law and served as Commissioner of Communications.
        In 1969 he was designated Ambassador to Italy. His wife, Lady Victoria, was often at his side as he traveled abroad. She died in 1996.  The King was survived by a son and two daughters.
        In 1970 the King renounced his ambassadorship when the former King, Prempeh II, died and he was chosen to succeed him as Asantehene, the paramount leader. The King regarded his duties as Asantehene as more demanding than those of ambassador and at least equally important for the progress of Ghana.
        The King ascended not to a throne but to the Golden Stool of the Asante. According to Asante lore, the stool had been plucked from the sky by the first Asante King, Osei Tutu, who built a confederation of village leaders that in the 18th century extended from Ghana to Togo. The confederation traded gold, cloth, and slaves.
        Throughout the 19th century, Britain and the Asante drifted into hostility, and the confederation weakened. In 1896 the British seized King Prempeh I and escorted him eastward across Africa to exile in the Seychelles, in the Indian Ocean. The stool was hidden, and four years later, on a visit to Kumasi, the British Governor General of the Gold Coast Colony, Sir Frederic Hodgson, became outraged when the tribal elders did not allow him to sit on it as the representative of Queen Victoria.
        Word of this incident aroused Asante to a bitterly fought uprising that lasted nine months before the British suppressed it. In 1902 Asante lands were formally incorporated into the Gold Coast.
        When the Gold Coast began to move toward direct rule in the 1920's, the stool was recovered. Prempeh I was brought back from the Seychelles in 1925 and given limited powers as a figurehead. When he died in 1935, Prempeh II was crowned as Asantehene in a traditional ceremony in which he was held aloft, hovering over the golden stool, but not touching it.
        Ghana became independent in 1957, but the office of Asantehene and the Asante institutions have outlasted the centralized, pan-Africanist policies that the leader, Kwame Nkrumah, promoted.
        Correction:  March 5, 1999, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Otumfuo Opoku Ware II, the traditional King of the Asante people in Ghana, misstated his age in some editions. He was 79, not 89.
        The obituary also referred incorrectly in some editions to the year Ghana became independent. It was 1957, not 1960.
      