
        Allen Wardwell, director of the Asia Society Galleries in New York from 1974-84 and a prominent authority on primitive art of many kinds, died on Monday while on vacation in Colorado. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        Born on Jan. 18, 1935, Mr. Wardwell was educated at Groton, Yale and New York University. He was well placed to make a career in the law. (His grandfather had founded the law firm of Davis, Polk and Wardwell, in which his father was a partner.) But he decided to follow his passion for fine art. In 1960, after receiving a master's degree in art history at the Institute of Fine Arts in New York University, where he was taught by Robert Goldwater, he became head of the primitive art department at the Art Institute of Chicago, a position he held until 1973. He was also acting director of the institute's decorative arts department.
        His career took off in 1974, when he became director of the Asia Society Galleries in New York. Robert B. Oxnam, formerly director of the Asia Society, said yesterday that ''Allen Wardwell deeply influenced American appreciation of non-Western arts and cultures, especially in the enormously creative societies of the Asia-Pacific region, Japan and the Native Americans of the Northwest Coast.''
        Mr. Wardwell's enthusiasms included music and dancing. He was a founder and active member of the Central Park Dance Skaters Organization.
        After leaving the Asia Society in 1984, Mr. Wardwell was director of the Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum in New York from 1986 till 1990. To the end of his life he was much in demand as a consultant to many museums and institutions throughout the United States. He was curatorial consultant for African and Oceanic art at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston and a senior consultant in American Indian art and tribal art at Christie's auction house in New York.
        Among his many publications was an exemplary study, titled ''Tangible Visions,'' of Northwest Coast shamanic Indian art.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sally Tilghman; a daughter, Lelia, of Manhattan; two sons, William, of Seattle, and Alexander, of Oslo; two sisters, Lelia Seidner of San Francisco and Helen DuBois of Manhattan, and a grandchild.
      