
        Evan Welling Thomas 2d, a book editor who published dozens of books,  including John F. Kennedy's ''Profiles in Courage,'' died Saturday at the Preston Health Center in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 78.
        The cause was complications from multiple sclerosis, said his son, Evan Thomas 3d.
        An aggressive acquiring editor with a passion for sharply hewn historical and political writing, Mr. Thomas rose through the ranks to editor in chief at Harper & Brothers, where he published several best sellers, including ''Profiles in Courage,'' ''Death of a President'' by William Manchester and ''The First Circle'' by Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn.
        In a coup that drew a frenzy of publicity in 1967, Mr. Thomas acquired the memoirs of Josef Stalin's daughter, Svetlana Alliluyeva, who had defected to the United States. He paid Ms. Alliluyeva an advance of more than $1 million, then a record sum.
        ''He treated publishing like journalism, and he wanted to get the newsmakers into books as soon as possible,'' said his son, an author and assistant managing editor at Newsweek magazine.
        Mr. Thomas was born on July 14, 1920, into a politically active family. His father was Norman Thomas, who ran for President on the Socialist Party ticket six times. Mr. Thomas grew up in Manhattan and on Long Island and as a child counted among his sailing companions John V. Lindsay, who later became the mayor of New York City.
        Mr. Thomas attended Princeton University, but a month before the attack on Pearl Harbor he joined the American Field Service, a group of Americans who served as ambulance drivers attached to the British forces. In 1943, he was commissioned as an ensign in the United States Navy and married Anne Robins in August.
        His war memoir, ''Ambulance in Africa,'' was published in 1945. But his admiration for Maxwell Perkins, the editor of Thomas Wolfe, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway, drew him toward a career in book publishing. In 1945, he went to work as an editor at Harper & Brothers, which evolved into HarperCollins.
        In 1968, Mr. Thomas joined W. W. Norton & Company as executive editor, where he acquired and edited dozens of notable books, including ''Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis'' by Robert F. Kennedy, published after his death, and ''Eleanor and Franklin,'' a National Book Award-winning biography of the Roosevelts by Joseph P. Lash.
        Mr. Thomas retired from Norton  in 1983. In addition to his son, who lives in Washington, Mr. Thomas is survived by his wife, Anne D. R. Thomas of Hilton Head; two sisters, Polly Miller of Cheshire, Conn., and Frances Gates of Huntington, N.Y.; two daughters, Wendy Zara of Sheldon, S.C., and Louisa Hargrave of Cutchogue, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      