
        Richard Kiley, who won a Tony Award for his compelling performance as Don Quixote in the Broadway musical ''Man of La Mancha'' and was for 40 years one of theater's most distinguished and versatile actors, died yesterday at Horton Hospital in Middletown, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Warwick, N.Y.
        The cause was a blood disorder,  his wife, Patricia Ferrier Kiley, said.
        Mr. Kiley was an indispensable actor, the kind of performer who could be called on to play kings and commoners and a diversity of characters in between. As someone who worked with equal ease in both musicals and dramas, he regarded himself as an actor who sang, not as a singer who also acted.
        Before he did ''Man of La Mancha'' in 1965, he had already been on Broadway singing ''Stranger in Paradise'' as the Caliph in ''Kismet.'' He had been in the drama ''Time Limit,'' had won a Tony award for the musical ''Redhead'' (where he met his wife, who was a dancer in the show) and had also starred in Richard Rodgers's ''No Strings,'' among many others. ''Man of La Mancha'' was a turning point.
        ''He always said he was a character man in a leading man's body,'' his wife said yesterday. She remembered that when ''Man of La Mancha'' came along, he said: ''Aha! Here's my chance not only to play a doddering old knight, but I also get to play an author.''
        Although he was best known for his roles in musicals, he also acted in plays by Eugene O'Neill, Tennessee Williams and Arthur Miller. He played the autocratic Dr. Sloper in two productions of ''The Heiress,'' on Broadway with Jane Alexander in 1976 and at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven with Jayne Atkinson in 1989. His last Broadway performance was in Mr. Miller's ''All My Sons'' in 1987.
        In addition to his Tony Awards, he won three Emmys and two Golden Globes for his performances in ''The Thorn Birds,'' ''A Year in the Life'' and ''Picket Fences.''
        He was born in Chicago, and after a year at Loyola University, he left to study acting at the Barnum Dramatic School in Chicago. He began his career as an announcer and actor on radio. After serving in the Navy, he worked briefly in Chicago and then moved to New York.
        In 1947 he was in ''The Trojan Women'' at Equity Library Theater. The next year he was the understudy for Anthony Quinn as Stanley Kowalski in the tour of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and made his Broadway debut in 1953 in ''Misalliance.'' While continuing his Broadway career, he also often worked on television, appearing on many major dramatic shows, including ''Playhouse 90'' and ''Studio One.''
        Despite his success, he felt a certain discouragement with his career until ''Man of La Mancha.'' As he said, ''I had fallen into the position of good old Kiley, the faithful leading man for the lady stars.''
        After ''Man of La Mancha'' tried out at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., it moved to the ANTA Washington Square Theater, where it became a surprise hit. It put Mr. Kiley firmly in the spotlight as the idealistic Don Quixote and the knowing Cervantes, a demanding double role. His reviews were glowing, his performance triumphant, as he sang the inspirational ''Impossible Dream'' and the other songs that became so familiar.
        He played Don Quixote for the entire run of the show, 2,328 performances over six years. Then he toured with it and took it back to Broadway in 1972 and again in 1977. Although there were moments when he regarded the role as ''a millstone around my neck,'' he also seemed to approach it as a continuing challenge.
        Inspired by the musical, Mr. Kiley extended his interest to the author, and in 1973 played the title role in Norman Corwin's ''Cervantes,'' portraying the author with dignity and considerable humor.
        In 1974 he was back on Broadway in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Absurd Person Singular,'' and in 1981 he played Moliere in Mikhail Bulgakov's ''Moliere in Spite of Himself'' at the Hartman Theater Company in Stamford, Conn. His films include ''Blackboard Jungle,'' ''The Phenix City Story,'' ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar,'' ''The Little Prince,'' ''Endless Love'' and ''Patch Adams.''
        When he became ill about five years ago, he stopped acting onstage but continued to do narrations for documentary and biographical television. His deep, resonant voice was always identifiable, whether he was speaking, for example as the voice of the tour guide in ''Jurassic Park,'' or singing ''The Impossible Dream.''
        In January he was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame but was unable to attend the ceremony. Broadway theaters decided to dim their lights in his honor at 8 P.M. last night.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by six children from his first marriage, Kathleen and Erin, of Bridgeport, Conn., Dierdre, of Fairfield, David, of Grosse Point, Mich., Michael Kiley and Dorothy Caruso of Blacksburg, Va., and by 12 grandchildren and 1 great-grandchild.
        When he returned to the role of Don Quixote in 1977, he admitted in an interview that he felt possessive about it: ''I nearly die whenever I see anybody play the role, as though somebody is abusing my child. A lot of very good actors have played this role, and many of them are much smarter than I; but I think my naivete suits it.'' When he played Don Quixote, it was with the actor's authority and the character's innocence.
        In that interview, he said that he sided with Don Quixote in thinking that it was madness to see life as it is and not as it ought be. He quoted the nuclear physicist Fritjof Capra as saying that ''our everyday perceptions of reality aren't true,'' and concluded, ''Perhaps Holy Fools like Quixote are right after all.''
      