
        David H. Smith, a researcher and entrepreneur who helped figure out a way to coax even the immature immune system of an infant into mounting a defense against a bacterium that causes meningitis, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 67 and also lived on Martha's Vineyard and in Rochester.
        The cause was malignant melanoma, his family said.
        Dr. Smith won the Albert Lasker Award for Clinical Medical Research in 1996 for his work in developing a vaccine against the bacterium Haemophilus influenzae type B, or Hib. The prize was shared with a former colleague, Porter W. Anderson Jr., and two researchers from the National Institutes of Health, John B. Robbins and Rachel Schneerson.
        ''The Hib vaccine work is a wonderful success story,'' said Richard A. Insel, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Rochester and a former colleague of Dr. Smith's at the university. ''I don't think people thought it would be this successful, almost eradicating the disease.''
        In the early 1980's, about 20,000 cases of Hib invasive disease in preschool children were reported to the Federal Centers for Disease Control. In about 12,000 of those cases, the children had meningitis, an inflammation of the brain and spinal cord membranes that can be fatal or cause permanent brain damage. In 1997, a few years after the vaccine became available for infants, 258 cases were reported.
        Dr. Smith became convinced that a Hib vaccine was feasible but could not interest a drug company in the work, so he founded Praxis Biologics in Rochester in 1983, said his wife, Joan. ''He was so determined to do this,'' she said, ''that he quit his job and mortgaged the house and founded the company.''
        Praxis's first vaccine was developed in 1985, but it was effective only in older children. In 1989, the company was bought by American Cyanamid and became Lederle-Praxis. Dr. Smith was chairman and chief scientific officer of the new company in 1989 and 1990.
        A successor company, Wyeth-Lederle Vaccines, won approval in 1990 for a vaccine that is now used in infants starting at 2 months of age.
        That vaccine stimulates an infant's immune system by joining a protein from another bacterium, like tetanus or diphtheria toxin, to sugars from Hib bacteria. The protein stimulates immature immune cells, prompting the production of antibodies to the Hib sugars and protecting the child from infection.
        This strategy of using what is known as a ''conjugate'' vaccine is now being studied to see if it is effective against other childhood diseases.
        David Hamilton Smith was born in Canton, Ohio, and graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University in 1953. He earned his medical degree at the University of Rochester School of Medicine in 1958.
        He conducted research at Harvard Medical School, and served as chief of infectious diseases at Boston Children's Hospital from the late 60's to 1976. He was chairman of the pediatrics department at the University of Rochester from 1978 to 1983.
        He was also active in conservation efforts. He led the effort to establish the Polly Hill Arboretum, a 60-acre tract with more than 2,000 species of plants, on Martha's Vineyard; it opened to the public last year.
        He also gave more than $9 million to the Nature Conservancy to finance 48 postdoctoral researchers to study freshwater conservation. He was on the board of the Environmental Defense Fund at the time of his death.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Smith is survived by a brother, Richard, of Delaware, Ohio; three daughters, Andrea Smith and Rachel Smith, both of New York City, and Jennifer Smith of Takoma Park, Md.; two stepdaughters, Jody Leader of Brookline, Mass., and Kristin Leader of Rome, and five granddaughters.
      