
        Leopold H. Just, a Latvian-born sojourner who came to New York to study medicine, took an engineering detour through Brooklyn and ended up building highways and bridges all over the world, died on Feb. 25 at a nursing home in Newport, R.I. He was 95 and as a partner in the Ammann & Whitney firm of consulting engineers had had a hand in designing virtually every major bridge in New York City from the George Washington to the Verrazano.
        It's not clear where Mr. Just got his desire to be a doctor. His father made a fortune importing fruits and vegetables. But by the time Mr. Just was ready to go to college, he had decided on a career in medicine.
        The problem was that shortly after he arrived in New York in 1921 to begin undergraduate studies at City College, his father's business failed.
        So, inspired by an uncle in Pittsburgh who was an engineer, Mr. Just switched his sights to engineering and began working with the consulting firm of Moran & Proctor even before earning a degree in civil engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in 1929; he earned a law degree from New York University two years later.
        Although he apparently went to law school primarily to satisfy a general thirst for knowledge, Mr. Just said later that it had helped him negotiate engineering contracts.
        The event that gave his career its eventual shape came in 1931 when Mr. Just left Moran & Proctor and joined the Port of New York Authority (as it was known at the time), where he came to the attention of its legendary Swiss-born chief engineer, Othmar H. Ammann, who became known as New York's master bridge builder.
        Over the next few years, Mr. Just helped design parts of the George Washington Bridge and the Lincoln Tunnel, then left in 1938 to design tunnels and ventilation buildings for the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission.
        Returning to New York in 1940, he became a structural engineer with Mr. Ammann, who had established his own consulting practice after leaving the Port Authority and designing the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, which in 1937 eclipsed the George Washington as the world's longest suspension bridge.
        After spending two years working on the La Guardia Airport pedestrian bridge over the Grand Central Parkway and other Ammann projects, Mr. Just joined another consulting company, Frederic R. Harris Inc., specializing in harbor structures, floating drydocks and the like, before returning to Ammann in 1944 as chief draftsman, a post he continued to hold after Mr. Ammann, an acknowledged steel genius, teamed up with a renowned concrete man, Charles S. Whitney, to create Ammann & Whitney in 1946.
        From then on, Mr. Just, who became chief engineer in 1952 and a partner in 1958, was in the center of a whirlwind, supervising as many as 100 engineers, designers and draftsmen at a time as the firm undertook a variety of far-flung projects, including highways, bridges and tunnels; railroad, airport and waterfront buildings; dams, military installations and other structures.
        Along the way, Mr. Just, who specialized in bridges and highways, played a central role in designing the Walt Whitman Bridge in Philadelphia, the Throgs Neck Bridge linking the Bronx and Queens, the lower level of the George Washington Bridge, and, most notably, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge linking Staten Island with Brooklyn.
        At the time it opened in 1964, the Verrazano, with a central span of 4,260 feet, was the world's longest suspension bridge, and among the complications Mr. Just had to contend with was the unsettling fact that because of the curvature of the earth, the 690-foot-high towers are 1 5/8 inches farther apart at their tops than they are at the waterline.
        From 1964 until his retirement in 1970, Mr. Just was a man on the move as the Ammann & Whitney partner in charge of international operations, among them a 150-mile highway in Bangladesh, a jet hangar in Karachi, a 100-mile highway in Iran, an airport terminal in Athens and military installations in the Philippines, Thailand and Greece.
        His many other projects included work on the New York State Thruway; the Garden State Parkway; the Wisconsin, New Jersey, Ohio and Connecticut Turnpikes; Dulles Airport, the Long Island Expressway and the Washington Metro system, and though his work on the Verrazano was clearly his peak achievement, he was proudest of an earlier project -- the 330-foot Harlem River pedestrian bridge to Wards Island.
        Compared with the Verrazano, it is a pipsqueak bridge, but it had special meaning to Mr. Just as the first one he had full charge of.
        As for his medical aspirations, Mr. Just, a longtime Manhattan resident whose survivors include his wife, Evelyn; a brother, Max of Meaux, France; three sons and five grandchildren, did not so much abandon his dreams as defer them for a generation.
        Although two of his sons, Edward, a consulting engineer in Dallas, and Robert, a banker in Baltimore, resisted their father's urgings, his other son, Samuel, of Jamestown, R.I., became a doctor.
      