
        The Emir of Bahrain, Sheik Isa bin Salman al-Khalifa, who collapsed and died today at 65, shaped his country into an important ally of the West during nearly four decades in power.
        Bahraini officials said the cause of death was a heart attack, which the Emir suffered at his palace in Manama, the capital, just minutes after a meeting with the visiting Defense Secretary, William S. Cohen. [Page 4.]
        A diminutive man with twinkling eyes, Sheik Isa was very much a man who enjoyed life, ruling with a mischievous touch.
        He had dozens of wives -- though never more than four at a time, in keeping with his Muslim religion, and presided until late in life at what was known as Emir's beach, to which foreigners but not Bahrainis were welcomed. Female beachgoers who caught his eye were routinely invited to join the Emir for coffee, on a terrace overlooking the Persian Gulf.
        Even today, in their last conversation, Mr. Cohen said later, he had chided Sheik Isa, a longtime friend, telling him that his next destination in the United States should be Las Vegas, not New York.
        It was with a similar impetuousness that Sheik Isa ruled Bahrain since 1961, winning his country many friends and considerable wealth but sometimes offending people in the process.
        He declared Bahrain's independence from Britain in 1971, then maintained a pro-Western line in foreign policy. The country is now the base of the United States Fifth Fleet, which has also provoked resentment at home against the foreign military presence.
        The Emir's policies also angered Iraq, the tiny Emirate's giant neighbor, whose leaders remember that Sheik Isa allowed Bahrain to be used as a Western air base for attacks on Iraq during the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
        With an early eye to economic diversification, Sheik Isa also presided over bold changes that established Bahrain as a major financial center.
        Though oil was discovered in Bahrain as early as the 1930's, it was never found in large quantities, and as a headquarters to foreign banks and other businesses, Bahrain became proof that it was possible to prosper in the Middle East without vast energy reserves.
        But Sheik Isa was careful also to maintain an alliance with the region's economic and military powerhouse, Saudi Arabia, with which it is connected by a causeway and from which it receives oil from a shared field.
        When it came to sharing power, however, Sheik Isa was often at his most mercurial. A Constitution adopted in 1973 established Bahrain as only the second gulf Arab state, after Kuwait, to have an elected Parliament. But Sheik Isa dissolved Parliament in August 1975 after a showdown with left-wing members over domestic and regional policies. The Constitution was also suspended.
        In 1992, Sheik Isa consolidated the retreat away from even limited democracy by issuing a decree that replaced the National Assembly with a 30-member consultative council, with its members to be appointed by the Emir.
        That kind of heavy hand often served to maintain an atmosphere of domestic tranquillity in Bahrain, even as the Iranian revolution of 1979 and instability in Iraq served to underscore the dangers of the region.
        But it never fully capped the anger felt by many Bahrainis, particularly the majority population of Shiite Muslims, toward Sheik Isa and his ruling Khalifa family, who are Sunnis.
        In the Emir's final years, that bitterness was exposed in a significant way, through a low-level campaign of violence that claimed some two dozen lives after 1994 and resulted in the jailing of hundreds of Shiite Muslim activists.
        Many Government opponents said their only demand was that Parliament be reestablished. But Sheik Isa preferred to remain impervious, greeting visitors to his palace with generous gifts while his aides advised them not to try to question him on domestic political subjects.
      