
        T. Norman Hurd, a New York State budget director under Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller and the Governor's close confidant, died on  Feb. 27 at his home in Loudonville, N.Y., a suburb of Albany. He was 88.
        Dr. Hurd, who earned his doctorate in agricultural business management at Cornell University, was budget director under Gov. Thomas E. Dewey from 1950 to 1954 and under Rockefeller from 1959 to 1971, when Rockefeller named him Director of State Operations. From 1956 to 1958, Dr. Hurd was a member of the State Board of Regents.
        By late 1971, he had become Rockefeller's treasured factotum and was admired by colleagues in state government for his attention to detail. Dr. Hurd was ''noted for boiling down pages of detail into understandable notions for the Governor,'' The New York Times said that year.
        In 1972, Dr. Hurd was appointed Secretary to the Governor by Rockefeller.
        Dr. Hurd served in that post for the rest of Rockefeller's tenure as governor and also under the next Governor, Malcolm Wilson. After Rockefeller became Vice President in 1974, Dr. Hurd joined his Vice Presidential staff as a special assistant.
        In the mid-1970's, his name was mentioned in a furor involving New York State political figures and the nursing home industry. One state commission issued a report in 1976 that said Rockefeller was to blame for political influence, official neglect and poor care that it said were rife in the nursing home industry while he was Governor. But the report said that Rockefeller and Dr. Hurd regarded their repeated interventions in nursing home matters as ''mere courtesies,'' and that they had denied that they had had an intimidating effect on civil servants.
        Dr. Hurd was active in the affairs of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, based in Albany, and was a co-editor of the book ''Rockefeller in Retrospect: The Governor's New York Legacy'' (1984).
        He was born in Michigan, and worked on a family farm from the ages of 7 to 17. He graduated in 1931 from Michigan State College and received his doctorate in 1936. He taught agricultural economics on the Cornell campus and became a full professor in 1949.
        His wife, Anne Wolstenholme Hurd, died in 1994.
        Dr. Hurd is survived by a son, Hollis T. Hurd of Pittsburgh; two daughters, Linda Hurd Ewing of West Lafayette, Ind., and Sandra Hurd Hennemeyer of St. Louis; three grandchildren; one great-grandchild; a brother, Russell, of Detroit; and two sisters, Frieda Broadway and Mary Bricker, both of Yale, Mich.
      