
        Howie Haak, a pioneer of baseball scouting in Latin America and a key figure in the Pittsburgh Pirates' snaring of the future Hall of Famer Roberto Clemente from the Brooklyn Dodgers' farm system, died on Feb. 22 in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 87 and a baseball scout for nearly a half-century.
        Long before major league teams built sophisticated training centers in the Dominican Republic and Venezuela, Haak, a protege of Branch Rickey, was scouring Latin America by automobile, plane and boat for the Pirates.
        Haak (pronounced Hake) was a catcher in the Cardinals' farm system in the 1930's and early 1940's, when Rickey was the St. Louis general manager. Having moved to the Dodgers, Rickey hired Haak as a scout after he was discharged from the Navy following World War II. When Rickey left Brooklyn for Pittsburgh after the 1950 season, he took Haak with him to build a youth movement.
        In February 1954, the Dodgers signed Clemente, then 19 years old, out of Santurce, P.R., and sent him to their Montreal Royals farm team. Rickey heard about Clemente's potential and sent Haak to watch him play. But when the Royals' manager, Max Macon, saw Haak, he refused to put Clemente in the lineup, fearing the Pirates might be so impressed that they would grab him in the next minor league draft.
        As Haak would recall it: ''I did see Clemente play in Puerto Rico after the season was over and my eyes almost popped out. I told Rickey: 'We gotta draft him. He's better than anything we have.' ''
        The Pirates took Clemente for $4,000 in the November 1954 draft, and when Clemente displayed his talents at the Pirates' spring training in 1955, Rickey told Haak to travel through Latin America looking for more players like him.
        Haak, a burly man who would be known to young Latin Americans as Big Daddy, signed scores of players for the Pirates, including Manny Sanguillen, Omar Moreno and Rennie Stennett of Panama; Tony Pena, Jose DeLeon and Cecilio Guante of the Dominican Republic, Al McBean of the Virgin Islands and Roman Mejias of Cuba.
        ''We thank God for him,'' Sanguillen once said. ''He's opened the door for us.''
        The epitome of the baseball lifer, Haak accumulated countless mileage on his trips in Latin America and the United States, often in a Cadillac equipped with a spittoon as befit the game's champion tobacco-chewer. He wasn't the first major league scout in Latin America; the Washington Senators' Joe Cambria had signed many Cuban players in the 1940's. But Haak traveled more widely than other scouts in Latin America and opened up new territory for major league baseball.
        Haak became involved in controversy in May 1982 when he suggested that Pirate fans were staying away from Three Rivers Stadium because they wanted more white players in the lineup. The Pirate owner, John W. Galbreath, called Haak's remarks ''very unfortunate,'' but blacks on the Pirates defended Haak, presumably mindful of all the black players from Latin America he had signed. He remained with the Pirates through 1988, then spent five years as a scout with the Houston Astros.
        Haak looked for pitchers with a good fastball and position players with speed and strong arms, figuring that pitching mechanics and hitting techniques could be taught. He took copious notes and had his wife, Crystal, who survives him, type them up.
        He never took Spanish lessons, learning the language in the course of his scouting trips. As he put it: ''I know enough Spanish to run tryout camps and get the good guys' signatures on contracts.''
      