
        Wayne Berg, an architect who helped reinvigorate modernism in the last decade with his sleekly sensual forms, died at home in Manhattan on Feb. 25. He was 52.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Ann Hutchens Berg.
        From such early buildings as the brooding Gallatin County Detention Center in Montana to the more recent award-winning Clinch Valley College Education and Development Center at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Mr. Berg created substantial architecture on a human scale.
        ''His work was clean and orderly, with subtle textures and a well-considered play of light,'' said John Dixon, the former editor in chief of Progressive Architecture magazine. ''It was refined and luminous.''
        For example, a house he designed in Ormond Beach, Fla., has an exterior of fluted concrete block while indoors a cantilevered bridge over the living room is supported by a pair of two-story panels, one aluminum, the other copper mesh.
        Mr. Berg was born on July 15, 1946, in Colfax, Wash., but soon moved to Bozeman, Mont., where his mother, Norma Ritter, still lives. Mr. Berg was a promising downhill ski racer in college, but turned down an athletic scholarship to follow his father, who was also an architect, and enter the architectural program at Montana State University, from which he graduated in 1969.
        After working for several years in San Francisco, Mr. Berg moved to New York in 1974 to work for Robert A. M. Stern Architects. He established his own practice in 1978, the  year he met his future wife, whom he married in 1981.
        Early recognition came when he was selected to participate in the Emerging Voices series sponsored by the Architectural League of New York in 1986. He also joined the firm now called Pasanella, Klein, Stolzman & Berg in 1986 and became the partner in charge of design in 1987.
        ''Wayne was part of a new brand of modernists -- rational but at the same time interested in the sensuality of forms and materials,'' said J. Arvid Klein, a founding principal of the firm.
        While his passion was building, Mr. Berg also taught as an adjunct professor of architecture at Columbia University. He was an active member of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, serving as its vice president in 1992. His entry for the competition to design Stabile Hall, a dormitory at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, is to receive a 1999 Progressive Architecture design award from Architecture magazine in April.
        Mr. Berg was also devoted to dog sled racing. He kept 18 dogs at the family's weekend home in Saugerties, N.Y., and two years ago he was on the United States Dog Sled Team.
        In addition to his wife and mother, Mr. Berg is survived by his father, Oswald Berg Jr., of Billings, Mont., a sister, Carol Berg of Los Angeles, and a stepson, Alexander Chancia of Syracuse.
      