
        John Leland Atwood, an engineer who rose through the executive ranks at North American Aviation as it built the P-51 Mustang, the most powerful fighter plane of World War II; the F-100 Super Sabre, the first supersonic fighter, and the Apollo capsule that took men to the moon, died on March 5. He was 94 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Atwood, who was known as Lee, retired in 1970 as chairman of the North American Rockwell Corporation, a company formed three years earlier by the merger of North American Aviation Inc. of Los Angeles and the Rockwell-Standard Corporation, an auto parts maker in Pittsburgh. The company became Rockwell International in 1973.
        Don H. Davis, the chief executive of Rockwell International, said Mr. Atwood's contributions ''helped the United States to attain aerospace superiority.''
        Mr. Atwood was assistant general manager of North American Aviation in 1940 when he persuaded the British Government to pay for development of a new plane instead of modifying the Curtiss P-40. Pilots flying the new plane, the P-51 Mustang, were responsible for almost half of the enemy aircraft downed in Europe.
        Luther Smith of Villanova, Pa., one of the Tuskegee Airmen, a unit of black fighter pilots, flew 50 of his 133 World War II combat missions in a P-51. He said yesterday that the Mustang ''could outmaneuver all of the German fighters.''
        ''The P-51 was so powerful, with its Rolls-Royce engines, and so maneuverable, that we would give Germans 10 seconds to parachute out once we got behind them,'' he added. ''They knew, and we knew, that we had them and we would have our gun cameras on, and as soon as we got a picture of them bailing out we would shoot down the plane and let the pilot live.''
        Mr. Atwood also played a key role in designing the B-25 Mitchell, a medium-range bomber, 16 of which were used by Gen. Jimmy Doolittle in the raid over Tokyo in 1942, an attack that had little military value but helped raise American morale.
        In 1953, Mr. Atwood disclosed that the F-100, which his company built, had become the first production jet fighter to operate at supersonic speeds in level flight. He also helped North American Aviation win the contract to build the X-15 rocket plane, which Capt. Pete Knight flew at more than 4,500 miles an hour in 1967.
        Mr. Atwood was born in 1904 in Walton, Ky. He graduated from Hardin-Simmons University in 1926 and two years later earned a master's degree in civil engineering at the University of Texas. He then went to work as a junior airplane engineer for the Army Air Corps at Wright Field in Dayton, Ohio.
        In 1930, he was hired at Douglas Aircraft in Santa Monica, Calif., and in 1934 he moved to North American Aviation in Los Angeles as chief engineer and vice president. He was promoted to assistant general manager in 1938, to first vice president in 1941, to president in 1948, chief executive in 1960 and chairman in 1962.
        Five years later, when the company merged with Rockwell-Standard, Mr. Atwood was named chief executive, a post he held until he retired in 1970. In 1996, Boeing acquired the aerospace operations of Rockwell International.
        Mr. Atwood is survived by his wife, Patricia, Rockwell International said.
        For many years after World War II, North American Aviation was the biggest military contractor, relying on Washington for virtually all of its revenue. Mr. Atwood was called to Washington several times for hearings by Congressmen about how well the company spent taxpayer money, as well as its relationship with Robert G. Baker, the Senate Democratic secretary whose outside business dealings were the subject of a 1964 Congressional inquiry.
        In 1962, North American Aviation abruptly reduced by half its contract with a vending machine company to make room for another company, U-Serv, in which Mr. Baker was a major shareholder. The deal was valued at $2.5 million, the equivalent of $13.6 million today. Mr. Atwood told the Senate Rules Committee in 1964 that he was unaware of Mr. Baker's role or that his company's lobbyist was also a major U-Serv shareholder. Ten days later, Mr. Atwood announced that he had dismissed the lobbyist.
        In 1967, Mr. Atwood was again called on the carpet after a fire killed three Apollo astronauts during a pre-flight test of the space capsule. Mr. Atwood said that in designing the capsule no one had considered the possibility of a fire on the ground.
        The Government's own inquiry found shoddy work that was not caught by inspectors of North American Aviation, including a socket wrench left inside the Apollo capsule. The moon project was not only a huge political issue but also an economic giant that accounted for almost 1 percent of the gross national product at its peak.
        Mr. Atwood told a House committee that ''overconfidence'' was behind some of the problems, which he vowed to correct without delaying the national goal to put a man on the moon before the end of the decade. He installed new managers on the project and made other changes. On July 20, 1969, Neil A. Armstrong put his boot into lunar dust and later that year the National Aeronautics and Space Administration gave Mr. Atwood its Public Service Award.
      