
        Dr. Philip Strax, a radiologist whose early and passionate advocacy of the mammogram helped revolutionize breast-cancer detection, died on Tuesday at a daughter's home in Bethesda, Md. He was 90.
        A general practitioner with a small family practice in Manhattan, Dr. Strax was spurred into a single-minded battle against breast cancer in 1947, when his first wife died of the disease.
        About 16 years later, he helped conduct a milestone study involving almost 62,000 women in New York, that established conclusively that early detection of breast cancer significantly reduced its mortality rate. Dr. Strax went on to open several pioneering clinics devoted to breast-cancer detection, often at no charge, and inaugurated the city's first mobile mammography units.
        Bertha Goldberg Strax, the doctor's wife, was 39 when she died.
        ''He was very much in love with her,'' said Dr. Albert Messina, director of Park Avenue Radiology, where Dr. Strax practiced until about 10 years ago.
        ''When they discovered it, he was shocked,'' Dr. Messina said of the breast cancer. ''It was a major blow to him. And he decided at the time that he was going to spend his lifework preventing that kind of shock from happening to anyone else, especially the patient.''
        At the time of Bertha Strax's death, few doctors realized that X-rays could be useful in detecting breast cancer, in part because the technology of the time was best suited for giving doctors a picture of bones. When it came to detecting problems in soft tissue like that making up the breast, the pictures were so blurry as to be of little value. Many doctors, moreover, attributed the mortality of any given case to the strength of the individual cancer, not to the time when it was discovered.
        Gradually, the technology was refined, allowing doctors to get a clearer picture of the breast.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Strax collaborated in the first large-scale controlled study of women to determine the effectiveness of mammograms in reducing mortality. The study was conducted from 1963 to 1966 by the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York and involved tens of thousands of women 40 to 64 years old.
        Half the women were given mammograms and manual breast cancer examinations; the other half were not. When the first results of the study were published some years later, doctors announced that the use of mammography had reduced breast-cancer deaths by a third. Even now, since patients from the HIP study are still alive, new analyses of the data are being published, Dr. Michael A . Cohen, medical director of Memorial Sloan-Kettering's Guttman Diagnostic Center, said yesterday.
        In 1988, Dr. Strax, then affiliated with the University of Miami School of Medicine, and a colleague, Prof. Sam Shapiro of Johns Hopkins University, were honored for their work by the General Motors Cancer Research Foundation. The HIP study, the foundation said in awarding the $100,000 prize, ''almost unilaterally changed medical thinking about early detection.''
        Even before the results of the studies were fully known, Dr. Strax had opened two clinics in New York where women could have mammograms at low cost or no charge. One was the Guttman Institute, which Sloan-Kettering took over in 1996. He also opened a third clinic, the Strax Institute, in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
        ''When he started his breast center and he started to use mammography,'' Dr. Cohen said, ''it had not been statistically proven that mammography was an effective means of cancer detection and mortality reduction in women. He had that vision. He thought it was the right thing to do.''
        And, Dr. Cohen noted, ''it is today really our only effective way of screening for breast cancer.''
        Dr. Strax also emphasized the importance of manual examinations. ''A good exam has three components,'' he said in an interview in 1966, ''the mammogram, a clinical examination by a physician or trained nurse, and a lesson in breast self-examination.''
        Some debate persists, however, about the reliability and effectiveness of mammograms for women under 50. The often denser nature of breast tissue in younger women can make it harder to spot problems. At the same time, a higher number of false alarms have been reported in mammograms of women below 50.
        Philip Strax was born on Jan. 1, 1909, the son of Jacob and Molly Strax, and grew up in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. His parents had immigrated from Eastern Europe, and his father worked sewing pockets in the garment industry. Philip Strax was one of five children, three of whom became doctors.
        Dr. Strax graduated from New York University Medical School in 1931, at the age of 22, and went into private practice.
        After the death of his first wife, Dr. Strax married Gertrude Jacobson. She died in 1987.
        Dr. Strax was the author of several books about breast cancer and three volumes of poetry, his other lifelong passion. In the poetry, as in his life, ''his most important theme is, always do more for others than is done for you,'' said a daughter, Rita Weil, of Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. Strax retired about a decade ago and lived in Hollywood, Fla., but he was taken to Mrs. Weil's home about a week before he died there.
        Dr. Strax is survived by a sister, Dr. Anne Robbins of Ossining, N.Y.; three daughters: Polly Hammer of Huntington, N.Y., Gayle Martin of Plantation, Fla., and Mrs. Weil; three sons: Norman, of New York, Marshall, of Nanuet, N.Y., and Dr. Richard, of Houston; eight grandchildren and one great-grandson.
        At the Guttman Institute, Dr. Cohen said, some of Dr. Strax's patients still talk about him decades after their encounters.
        ''If I could live in the heart of one of my patients for the next 30 years,'' Dr. Cohen said, ''that would be an accomplishment.''
        Correction:  March 16, 1999, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Thursday about Dr. Philip Strax, a radiologist whose early advocacy of the mammogram helped revolutionize breast cancer detection, misstated the date of an interview in which he explained that a good physical examination of the breast included instruction in self-examination. It was in 1986, not 1966.
      