
        Hermann Merkin, a private investor and philanthropist for whom Merkin Concert Hall is named, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        Mr. Merkin was born in Germany in 1907 and fled from the Nazis with his family. Soon after he arrived in New York in 1940, he joined the United States Army as an intelligence and counterintelligence officer. After the war he started Merkin & Company, a small investment concern.
        His principal philanthropic interests were in the field of Jewish education. He joined the board of Yeshiva University in the 1960's and was its vice chairman from the early 1980's until his death. As a memorial to his father he endowed the Leib Merkin chair in Talmudic studies and Jewish philosophy at the university's Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He was also on the board of Bar-Ilan University, in Israel. Mr. Merkin was a founder of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue and was its first president, from 1958 to 1976. He was the synagogue's chairman thereafter.
        In 1981 Mr. Merkin and his wife, Ursula, made a gift to the Hebrew Arts School that helped transform the intimate auditorium of the school's Abraham Goodman House at 129 West 67th Street in Manhattan  into an active performance center. When Goodman House opened in 1978, its hall was praised as a comfortable and acoustically ideal place to hear chamber music and recitals. But the school did not have the budget for frequent concert presentations.
        The gift from the Merkins enabled the school to undertake an ambitious program of performances and to start an endowment, and its Concert Hall was renamed for the Merkins. The gift -- the amount of which has never been disclosed -- also enabled the school to build a separate entrance to the hall.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Merkin is survived by three sons, Ezra, of New York, Solomon, of Englewood, N.J., and David, of Cleveland; three daughters, Daphne Merkin and Dinah Mendes of New York, and Deborah Gerber of Jerusalem, and 20 grandchildren.
      