
        Martin R. Shugrue Jr., an airline executive who played a pivotal and at times controversial role in unsuccessful attempts to keep Pan American World Airways and, later, Eastern Airlines from failing, died on Sunday. He was 58 years old.
        Mr. Shugrue died at his home in Houston of a stroke, a spokesman for the family said.
        A gregarious executive who had a knack for getting along with union leaders and the rank and file, Mr. Shugrue was appointed trustee of the troubled Eastern Airlines in April 1990 by Judge Burton R. Lifland. The step was front-page news because Judge Lifland took control of the airline away from its chairman, Frank Lorenzo, who had tried to get the company out of bankruptcy but had racked up losses of $1.2 billion.
        The losses and Mr. Lorenzo's confrontational style with the unions cost Eastern the support of creditors, but the judge was determined to revive the airline.
        Mr. Shugrue, whom Mr. Lorenzo had discharged from his post as president of Continental Airlines, relished the chance he was given. With a big ego and a flair for dramatic moves, Mr. Shugrue followed the example of Lee A. Iacocca, who had used a splashy television campaign as part of his strategy for turning Chrysler around in the 1980's.
        That June, Mr. Shugrue, nervous, clutching two packs of Camels, shot a series of television commercials in which skeptical business travelers asked him why they should fly Eastern when continuing labor strife and huge losses made them unsure of its safety. Mr. Shugrue bravely asserted that despite three years of labor and financial turmoil the airline had not had one serious incident. ''Not one,'' the trim former Navy aircraft carrier pilot said firmly.
        For a time the national campaign increased bookings and persuaded some business travelers to give the airline another chance, particularly since they could get a first-class seat by paying full coach fare. But the airline could not stem its losses, and some unions continued to question its safety and maintenance procedures.
        Then the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq in August 1990 sent jet fuel prices soaring, and the losses deepened. Still, Mr. Shugrue had the support of Judge Lifland, who continued to release tens of millions of dollars from an escrow fund to keep the airline flying. Mr. Shugrue even persuaded the court to increase his salary from $425,000 a year to $600,000, arguing that his pay should be more in line with executives of other major airlines -- a move for which he was widely criticized.
        By January 1991, even Judge Lifland acknowledged that there was no hope for the carrier. Mr. Shugrue began to sell off its assets.
        Even after liquidating Eastern, Mr. Shugrue could not give up his dream of building an airline. He put up some of his own money and with other investors raised more than $40 million to restart Pan Am, which he had tried to turn around in the 1980's before it was liquidated. The revived Pan Am flew two of the most heavily traveled and competitive routes in the nation -- New York-Los Angeles and New York-Miami.
        Mr. Shugrue's plan was to rely on the Pan Am name and to offer quality service at lower fares. The carrier attracted passengers, and at first its stock price soared. The fares were too low to make a profit, however, and Pan Am filed for bankruptcy in February 1998. The airline continues to operate as a charter.
        Mr. Shugrue was born in Providence, R.I., and graduated from Providence College. After serving in the Navy as a pilot, he joined Pan American World Airways in 1968 and rose through the ranks. But the airline itself was losing money.
        When Edward Acker was brought in in 1981 to help revive Pan Am, he hired outside executives but kept Mr. Shugrue, who was made vice chairman in 1984 and chief operating officer in 1985. The two had a falling-out late in 1987, however, when Mr. Acker tried to sell the airline. Mr. Shugrue opposed him and tried to keep it independent, winning further concessions from the unions. The board asked both executives to resign in January 1988.
        Mr. Shugrue is survived by his wife, Marianne, and their two children, Marika and Martine, of Houston, and by two children, Catherine, of Brooklyn, and Michael, of Roselle Park, N.J., from his marriage to Eleanor Dalton, who is deceased. He is also survived by his father, Martin R. Shugrue of Providence, three sisters and two brothers.
      