
        Sir Yehudi Menuhin, the legendary violinist who came to prominence in his childhood as a virtuoso in velvet knee pants and later became a respected conductor, a dedicated organizer of festivals and schools and an idealistic supporter of hundreds of charities, died yesterday at Martin Luther Hospital in Berlin. He was 82 and lived in London.
        When Sir Yehudi was at his best  his playing had a grandeur and personal intensity that made his sound instantly recognizable, both in the concert hall and on disk. He recorded prolifically, beginning in 1928 when he was 12 (one important early project was Elgar's Violin Concerto, under the composer's direction), and even after he stopped playing the violin publicly, in the early 1990's, he continued to perform and make recordings as a conductor.
        Though an American by birth, Sir Yehudi lived in Europe for most of his life. He described himself as an internationalist even in his earliest interviews and in the 1950's he contended that peace would be achieved only under a single benign world government. After he accepted honorary Swiss citizenship in 1970, tendered because of his services in founding the Gstaad Festival, the  State Department threatened to revoke his American citizenship, but later relented. In 1985 Sir Yehudi became a British subject; he had  been given an honorary knighthood by Britain 19 years earlier.
        Politics and visions of a utopian future often seemed to be as much on  Sir Yehudi's mind as music-making. A devotee of yoga and health food, he  regularly warned against the dangers of white rice, white bread, refined sugar and red meat, and advocated vegetarianism. He spoke about the dangers of pollution long before ecology was a chic topic of discussion. He championed inventions of all sorts, including electric cars and electronic musical education systems. And he put forward his own notions of city planning, including a vision of a rebuilt New York City in which the streets were to be pedestrian malls, with underground traffic.
        Musically too, his interests ranged widely. He performed and recorded most of the standard classical repertory, including the major contemporary works, and he gave the premiere performances of Bartok's Unaccompanied Sonata, Bloch's Suites 1 and 2, Walton's Violin Sonata and pieces by Georges Enesco, Vaughan Williams, Lennox Berkeley and Paul Ben-Haim. He also recorded jazz albums with Stephane Grappelli and as an early and eloquent Western advocate of Eastern music he made a series of ''East Meets West'' recordings with Indian musicians, including  Ravi Shankar, the sitarist, and Ali Akbar Khan, the sarod virtuoso.
        On Enduring Crises Personal and Technical
        Several times in his career, personal and technical crises forced Sir Yehudi to stop playing and reconsider his approach to the violin. But as a child violinist in the 1920's -- a time when Fritz Kreisler, Mischa Elman and Jascha Heifetz were the instrument's reigning elite -- Sir Yehudi stunned listeners with his pure tone, his virtuosic technique and his interpretive insight.
        ''It may seem ridiculous to say that he showed a mature conception of Beethoven's concerto, but that is the fact,'' Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times in November 1927, when Sir Yehudi, at age 11, made his first New York appearance as an orchestral soloist, at Carnegie Hall.
        By then, young Yehudi was already famous. In 1924, when he was 8, he played Beriot's ''Scene de Ballet'' with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra. The next year, he was the subject of a silent-screen newsreel that showed him alternately playing the violin and riding on a swing, with quotations from effusive reviews between the scenes. He made his New York recital debut at the Manhattan Opera House in 1926, and in the early months of 1927, he made celebrated appearances in Paris and Brussels.
        Yehudi Menuhin (pronounced MEN-yoo-inn) was born in New York on April 22, 1916. His parents, Moshe and Marutha, were Jewish immigrants from Russia who had met in Palestine in 1909, and married in New York in 1914. They named their son Yehudi, which means ''Jew,'' after a landlord showing them an apartment told them that a benefit of living in the building was that there were no Jews in residence there.
        In 1917, the Menuhins moved to San Francisco, where Moshe Menuhin, after a brief and unsuccessful attempt to run a farm near Oakland  supported his family by teaching Hebrew. Yehudi asked for a violin when he was 3, and was was taken to Sigmund Anker, a teacher who specialized in very young players. Four years later he became a student of  Louis Persinger, the teacher and chamber player.
        His parents were wary of the prodigy syndrome, in which musicians  hailed as geniuses in childhood proved unable to sustain the originality and inspiration of their early performances into adulthood. They limited their son's public appearances, and insisted that he and his two younger sisters -- Hephzibah and Yaltah, both born in San Francisco, and both pianists -- undertake a rigorous course of home study. Their father taught them math, history and Hebrew; their mother, French, German, Italian and Spanish tutor.
        During the Menuhins' visit to Europe in 1927 Yehudi played for the  Belgian violinist Eugene Ysaye, who was astonished to discover the extent to which Yehudi's technique was intuitive. Although he could play difficult works like Lalo's ''Symphonie Espagnole,'' he had bypassed the traditional technical exercises and studies. When Ysaye asked him to play a three-octave arpeggio, Yehudi  did not understand the request. On the same trip, he played for the violinist and composer Georges Enescu, with whom he studied in Paris and at Enescu's home in Romania. They maintained a close friendship until Enescu's death in 1955. He also studied with Adolph Busch.
        He made debuts in Berlin in 1928 and London in 1929, and soon began making recordings. His 1932 recording of the Elgar Violin Concerto, with the composer conducting, remains a classic. The same year, he made the first of many recordings with his sister Hephzibah. For the next four decades, she was his favorite recital partner. ''Ours was a special kind of collaboration,'' Sir Yehudi told The New York Times soon after his sister's death in 1981. ''We needed few words. We played almost automatically, as if we were one person.''
        After several years in Europe, the Menuhins moved back to California in 1934, and had a family compound  built in Los Gatos. Two years later, at age 19 and with more than a decade of concert experience behind him, Yehudi experienced his first crisis of confidence. Canceling all his concerts and withdrawing to his home in Los Gatos, the young virtuoso came to terms with the fact that his early training had been deficient in formal technical studies.
        A Family Closeness, Perhaps to a Fault
        But technique may not have been his only problem. Robert Magidoff, in ''Yehudi Menuhin: The Story of the Man and the Musician,'' a critical biography written with Sir Yehudi's  cooperation and published in 1955, said Sir Yehudi's problems were psychological and could be traced to the overprotectiveness of his parents, particularly his mother.
        He was not the last to do so. Tony Palmer, in a 1991 biography and television documentary, ''Menuhin: A Family Portrait,'' made a similar point, using interviews with Sir Yehudi's sister Yaltah and his children  to make his case. They maintained  that when he married Nola Ruby Nichols in 1938, Marutha Menuhin wrote letters to her daughter-in-law instructing her on everything from what to feed her son to when to abstain from sex. Sir Yehudi was indignant about the criticism of his parents, and tried to stop the publication of the Palmer book.
        The marriage produced a daughter, Zamira, and a son, Krov, and ended in divorce after nine years. In 1947 Sir Yehudi married Diana Gould, a dancer who had worked with Balanchine. They had two children: Jeremy, who became a concert pianist and performed with his father onstage, and Gerard. His wife and children survive him, along with  his sister Yaltah and four grandhildren.
        By then Sir Yehudi had come through a second crisis, caused by the tensions in his marriage and by the devastation he saw in Europe during World War II when he gave more than 500 concerts for American and Allied troops, often in combat zones. After the war he performed in displaced persons camps (sometimes with the composer Benjamin Britten as his accompanist) and visited concentration camps soon after their liberation. He continued touring in Europe until 1948 but when he returned to the United States critics began to note that his playing had lost some of its beauty.
        Sir Yehudi soon found himself embroiled in political problems as well. Jewish groups denounced him for performing with Wilhelm Furtwangler and the Berlin Philharmonic soon after the war, because Furtwangler had remained in Germany and prospered during the war. When a Jewish relief organization in Berlin boycotted one of his concerts, soon after his appearance with Furtwangler, Sir Yehudi called a meeting to argue that Furtwangler had never joined the Nazi party and had helped Jewish musicians. ''It is time to bind the wounds,'' he said, adding that ''love, and not hate, will heal the world.''
        He supported Furtwangler again in 1949, when the Chicago Symphony Orchestra was considering hiring Furtwangler as its music director. A group of illustrious musicians -- among them, Isaac Stern, Nathan Milstein, Arthur Rubinstein, Vladimir Horowitz and Lily Pons -- said that in that case they would never play there again. Sir Yehudi, in a telegram to the orchestra defending Furtwangle, described his protesting colleagues as ''beneath contempt.''
        Furtwangler eventually withdrew his candidacy, but Sir Yehudi's support of him drew fire from Jews all over the world, including Israel, where there was a bomb threat at one of his concerts in Tel Aviv. Sir Yehudi's position among the Israeli public was always clouded. On one hand, he played countless benefits for the country and its charities and was a presence during its early years and after the 1967 war with the Arabs though his father had become a strident anti-Zionist in the 1930's and refused to attend his son's concerts in support of Israel. But Sir Yehudi, if not as overtly hostile to Zionism as his father, objected to all forms of nationalism. In 1967 just as he played benefit concerts for Israeli organizations he also played concerts to benefit Arab refugees. He  found himself under attack in 1975, when Leonard Bernstein and 100 musicians and dancers asked him to join a boycott of cultural activities connected with Unesco, which had refused to admit Israel as a member. Sir Yehudi, who at the time was president of Unesco's International Music Council, responded that he considered boycotts cowardly and that he agreed with Unesco's criticism of Israel's archeological digs in Jerusalem.
        Sir Yehudi's personal life and musical career took new turns in the 1950's. On a trip to New Zealand in 1951 he became fascinated by a book on yoga he found in a doctor's waiting room and began a daily regimen that included 15 or 20 minutes of standing on his head. When he visited India in 1952, he was introduced to B. K. S. Iyengar, who became his guru. Sir Yehudi later wrote the forward to Iyengar's book, ''Light on Yoga.'' He also persuaded executives at Angel Records, EMI's classical label, to make recordings with Indian musicians like Mr. Shankar.
        Sir Yehudi began his association with a string of festivals around this time. He founded the Gstaad Festival in Switzerland in 1956, and he was appointed music director of the Bath Festival in England two years later. At Gstaad, he established a chamber orchestra, where made his first recordings as a conductor, among them a notable set of Bach's ''Brandenburg'' Concertos and a traversal of the Schubert Symphonies.
        Sir Yehudi actually made his conducting debut more than a decade earlier, with the Dallas Symphony, in 1942; but it was at Gstaad and Bath that he began his conducting career in earnest. At Bath he conducted opera for the first time, and it was in a dispute about opera -- the board considered it too costly, Sir Yehudi considered it essential -- that Sir Yehudi resigned in 1968.
        He also became increasingly interested in musical pedagogy. In 1963 he established the Yehudi Menuhin School for music students beginning at 6, at Stoke d'Abernon, in England. Two of his books -- ''The Violin: Six Lessons With Yehudi Menuhin'' (1971) and ''The Compleat Violinist'' (1986) -- were meant for student violinists. He was appointed president of Trinity College of Music in London in 1971, and in 1977 he founded the Menuhin Academy at Gstaad.  In addition to the organizations that he started or was actively involved with, he lent his name, as a sponsor, patron or board member, to hundreds of cultural and charitable organizations, from music schools and composer societies, to organizations as varied as Friends of Animals, the Good Gardeners' Association and the Grenville Clark Institute for World.
        Conducting Orchestras Around the World
        By the late 1960's he was conducting regularly, and by the 1980's he had led most of the world's great orchestras and had recorded with many of them. In 1985 he undertook his first American tour solely as a conductor, with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. But except for a sabbatical in 1976, when he was 60, he also continued to perform. Critics regularly noted his technical flaws in these years, but they also found a communicativeness and devotion in his playing that offset his occasional infelicities of tone.
        No one was more aware of his technical problems than Sir Yehudi, and in the early 1990's he stopped playing the violin in public and concentrated on conducting. Mostly he conducted standard repertory works but he could surprise listeners with his adventurousness. As part of his 80th-birthday celebration at the 1996 Lincoln Center Festival, for example, he conducted the Orchestra of St. Luk in a program of 14 new works composed in his honor. The composers were a strikingly diverse group, among them Lukas Foss, Karel Husa, Philip Glass, Steve Reich, Somei Satoh, David Del Tredici, Guya Kancheli and John Tavener.
        Besides his books on violin playing  Sir Yehudi published two volumes of memoirs, ''Theme and Variations'' (1972) and ''Unfinished Journey'' (1977). Another volume, ''The Music of Man'' (1979), which he wrote with Curtis W. Davis, was based on a television series in which Sir Yehudi visited 27 countries and presented a historical and cross-cultural examination of music, from ancient times to punk rock.
        Sir Yehudi was often honored. Besides his British Knighthood, he was made a Commander of the Legion of Honor and of the Ordre des Arts and Lettres, by France, a Knight Commander of the Order of Merit, by Germany and a Knight Commander of the Royal Order of the Phoenix, by Greece. He also received the Order of Leopold and the Ordre de la Couronne, from Belgium, the Kennedy Center Honors, from the United States, and the Handel Medallion, New York City's cultural award.
        As the years passed. Sir Yehudi kept up his enthusiasms, his aura of innocence and his often complicated, visionary way of engaging the world.  ''One still seems to discern, under the mask of the graying adult, the child wonder who made his New York recital debut at age 10,'' Donal Henahan wrote in a 1976 profile of Sir Yehudi in The New York Times.  ''And to whom Einstein himself, a fiddler of famously modest talent, once said, 'Today you have again proved to me that there is a God in heaven.' ''
        The Selections Of a Life's Work
        Yehudi Menuhin's recordings as both a violinist and as a conductor were plentiful. Here is a selection of his most representative work, available on compact disk.
        AS A VIOLINIST
        ''The Young Yehudi Menuhin,'' three volumes (1928-9, 1929-30, 1932), with Louis Persinger, Artur Balsam and Hubert Giesen, pianists. (Biddulph)
        Bach: Sonatas (BWV 1014-1019), with Hephzibah Menuhin, pianist. (Biddulph)
        Bartok: Sonata for Unaccompanied Violin. (EMI Classics)
        Beethoven: Violin Concerto, with the Philharmonia Orchestra, Wilhelm Furtwangler, cond.  (EMI Classics)
        Elgar: Violin Concerto, with the London Symphony Orchestra, Sir Edward Elgar, cond. (EMI Classics)
        Enescu: Sonata No. 3, with Hephzibah Menuhin, pianist. (Biddulph)
        ''Menuhin and Grapelli Play Jalousie and Other Great Standards,'' with Stephane Grapelli, violinist.
        AS A CONDUCTOR
        Bach: ''Brandenburg'' Concertos, with the Bath Festival Orchestra. (EMI Classics)
        Berlioz: ''Symphonie Fantastique,'' with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. (Virgo)
        Elgar: ''Cockaigne'' Overture, ''Pomp and Circumstances'' Marches, etc., with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. (Virgin Classics)
        Purcell: Selections from ''The Fairy Queen,'' ''The Indian Queen'' and ''King Arthur,'' with the Bath Festival Orchestra. (EMI Classics)
        Vaughan Williams: ''Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis,'' ''Fantasia on Greensleeves,'' ''The Lark Ascending,'' ''Variants on 'Dives and Lazarus'' with the English Chamber Orchestra. (Arabesque)
        Correction:  March 16, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary of the violinist and conductor Yehudi Menuhin on Saturday omitted an honor he received from the British throne and thus misstated his title. In addition to granting him a knighthood in 1966, Queen Elizabeth II made him a life peer in 1993. So he was Lord Menuhin, not Sir Yehudi.
        The obituary also misspelled the surname of his first wife. She was Nola Ruby Nicholas, not Nichols.
      