
        Viscount Eccles, a bookish British businessman turned Conservative politician who served in the Cabinets of four Prime Ministers without quite breaking through to the top ranks he had seemed destined for, died on Wednesday. He was 94 and had ended his public career as head of the independent British Library he had helped create.
        When Lord Eccles, then David MacAdam Eccles, let it be known in 1950 that he was the intellectual leader of the Tory party, there was perhaps more truth to the boast than needed to be mentioned.
        As a well-read collector of rare books, paintings and sculpture and a man of considerable cultural refinement, his credentials were impeccable. But what some saw as a preening elegance and an overweening arrogance did not sit well with his political rivals. They promptly dubbed him ''Smarty Boots,'' a sobriquet that stung as well as it stuck.
        Indeed, throughout his two-decade career in the House of Commons, Lord Eccles's tendency to put his foot in his mouth, or drop bricks, as he put it, made him his own worst political enemy.
        Even so, he managed to do effective work during two stints as Minister of Education and one as President of the Board of Trade, Britain's rough equivalent of Secretary of Commerce, and even more in a late-career turn as Paymaster General, the de facto Minister of the Arts.
        But for Lord Eccles, a man who saw himself as a Chancellor of the Exchequer or even a Prime Minister, that was not enough.
        The son and grandson of prominent physicians and the great-great-grandson of the developer of macadam paving, Lord Eccles had no interest in medicine.
        Instead, after studying economics at Oxford, where he helped support himself by the shrewd buying and selling of rare books, he created something of a family scandal by going into commerce. Beginning as a clerk, he quickly rose to a senior position in an investment company whose holdings included a Spanish railway.
        Although well on his way to making a major fortune, after the outbreak of World War II he was recruited into the Ministry of Economic Warfare and assigned to Spain and Portugal, where he swiftly proved as adept at giving away money as he had been at making it.
        In a position he later described as ''an apostle of bribery,'' he concluded sweetheart trade agreements and funneled millions to politicians, generals and other influential figures in what turned out to be a successful effort to keep Spain and Portugal neutral and deny the Nazis an entre into North Africa.
        Then in 1942, concerned that his free-wheeling ways abroad were threatening his marriage to his childhood sweetheart, Sybil Dawson, the daughter of Lord Dawson of Penn, the turn-of-the century Royal Physician, he abruptly abandoned what seemed to be a highly promising career and requested reassignment to Britain.
        Lord Eccles, who once described his husbandly ways as ''constant but not chaste,'' saved his marriage, and after the death of his wife in 1977 published ''By Safe Hand,'' a moving collection of the couple's wartime correspondence.
        Within a year of his return, Prime Minister Winston Churchill asked him to run for a parliamentary seat in Chippenham, in southwest England, and Lord Eccles obliged.
        He had never given a speech, but once he did he became so enchanted that after he was elected he became one of Parliament's most frequent orators, after the 1945 Labor victory as the designated opposition expert on economic matters.
        After Churchill and the Conservatives returned to power in 1951, Lord Eccles was appointed Minister of Works, a decidedly declasse Cabinet post that took on added glamor after the death of King George VI put Lord Eccles in charge of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in 1953.
        What should have been seen as an unqualified triumph of pomp and planning was marred when Lord Eccles likened the coronation to show business and described the Queen as a perfect leading lady, an off-the-cuff remark that created a surprisingly virulent furor at the time.
        Even so, the Queen duly rewarded him with a knighthood and he was promoted to Minister of Education, a post he held under Churchill and Sir Anthony Eden until 1957 when the next Prime Minister, Harold MacMillan, made him President of the Board of Trade, a position Lord Eccles saw as a sure stepping stone to Chancellor of the Exchequer.
        Although he concluded Britain's first trade agreement with the Soviet Union, after two rancorous years he was shifted back to Minister of Education, where he remained until 1962 when he was summoned by Macmillan and asked to return to the Board of Trade.
        Lord Eccles, who had expected to be named Chancellor of the Exchequer, was so outraged he refused the new assignment and resigned, soon being named a Baron, a comparatively lowly position he took as a slight until the succeeding Prime Minister, Sir Alec Douglas-Home, had him elevated to Viscount two years later.
        He pursued his successful business career until 1970, when Prime Minister Edward Heath named him Paymaster General. As the minister in charge of the arts, Lord Eccles, who had been chairman of the British Museum, helped push through a bill that created a new British Library incorporating what had been the main reference library at the museum.
        After he left the Cabinet in 1973 he became the library's first chairman.
        Lord Eccles is survived by his second wife, Mary Hyde; two sons, including John Dawson Eccles who becomes the second Viscount Eccles; a daughter; 7 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      