
        Dr. Paul M. Zoll, a Harvard cardiologist and pioneer in developing the heart monitors, pacemakers and defibrillators used by millions of people around the world, died on Tuesday at the Heathwood Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 87 and had lived at the nursing center for three years.
        The advances that Dr. Zoll and other researchers began making in the 1950's were applied widely and quickly and made possible the development of coronary-care units.
        All that was vastly different when Dr. Zoll returned from military service in World War II to work at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. At that time the standard treatment for cardiac arrest was crude: a doctor would cut into the chest and squeeze the heart with his hand to pump blood through the body.
        ''Our cardiologists carried large jackknives and even our poor eye surgeons were taken to the dog laboratories and shown how to cut chests open under emergency conditions,'' Dr. Zoll wrote in a scientific journal.
        During that era, and early in his research, Dr. Zoll said he encountered widespread disbelief -- even after initial successes -- that he could electrically stimulate the heart to make it beat effectively.
        In 1952, Dr. Zoll and a team of other doctors in Boston applied electric charges externally to the chest to resuscitate two patients whose hearts had stopped.
        The first patient lived only 20 minutes. The second patient survived for 11 months, after 52 hours of electrical stimulation.
        Still, the next spring, the United States Public Health Service rejected his application for a $5,000 grant to finance his research for a year, because the head of the grants award committee, an eminent physiologist from Cleveland, had failed in trying to do similar research years earlier, Dr. Zoll wrote in a scientific paper. He did not name the physiologist.
        After Dr. Zoll reported his findings at a scientific meeting, a close friend and leading cardiologist in Boston turned to Dr. Zoll's wife and said the device was a toy that would have little medical use.
        Dr. Zoll went on to develop external pacemakers to restore normal rhythms in patients whose hearts were beating erratically and dangerously. But Dr. Zoll continued to meet opposition from many fronts.
        ''Many people, including my own cardiac fellow, thought that it might be blasphemous, improper or unethical to keep a patient alive by such artificial means,'' Dr. Zoll wrote.
        For many years, external pacemakers, which kept patients tethered to large machines, were the main treatment for a condition known as heart block. But in addition to limiting patients physically, the devices sometimes caused burns, involuntary muscle contractions and sometimes intolerable pain.
        Swedish researchers then developed the permanent, implanted pacemakers that are widely used today.
        Colleagues described Dr. Zoll as a serious, quiet man who insisted that students and co-workers meet his intellectual and working standards.
        ''Like many brilliant people, he didn't run with the crowd,'' said Dr. Julian M. Aroesty, a cardiologist who worked with Dr. Zoll for many years. ''He was convinced of what was right, and he was going to strike off in that direction.''
        Paul Maurice Zoll was born on July 15, 1911, in Boston. He graduated from Boston Latin School and from Harvard College and Harvard Medical School. After interning at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, Dr. Zoll took further training at Bellevue Hospital in New York City, then served as a doctor in England in World War II.
        It was there that his interest in electrical charges to the heart was piqued, as he watched a classmate and heart surgeon, Dr. Dwight Harken, remove shrapnel and other foreign objects from beating hearts.
        Dr. Zoll then returned to Beth Israel, where he practiced and conducted research until 1993.
        He wrote that initially his background in electricity was inadequate to build a pacemaker. But he went on to learn in part from reports by a Canadian heart surgeon and borrowing a standard physiological pacemaker made in nearby Quincy.
        Without complaining about it, Dr. Zoll felt that he was not appropriately recognized until 1973 when he won an Albert Lasker Clinical Medical Research Award, Dr. Aroesty said.
        Dr. Zoll founded the Zoll Medical Corporation, a pioneer in manufacturing defibrillators. In his later years, he developed Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Ann.
        Dr. Zoll's first wife, the former Janet Jones, died several years ago. He is also survived by a son, Ross, of Woodbridge, Conn., and a daughter, Mary Zoll of Newton, Mass.
      