
        Commodore William E. Warwick, a grizzled Cunard mariner who became first master of the last great ocean liner, died in England on Feb. 27. He was 86 and had commanded the Queen Elizabeth 2 on her maiden voyage 30 years ago.
        When the QE2, as the ship is known, sailed into New York harbor for the first time, on May 7, 1969, Captain Warwick could be forgiven if his whiskers twitched and his broad chest swelled just a bit.
        As he strode the wide bridge in his white uniform, a pair of binoculars slung around his neck, thousands of well wishers waved from the shorelines, fireboats arched welcoming sprays of water into the air, and a flotilla of tugs, pleasure boats and other vessels swarmed around the 963-foot liner and trailed in her wake, sounding their horns and sirens in cacophonous greeting.
        What made the greeting seem more poignant was the general awareness that a decade after the advent of the jet age, the era of trans-Atlantic ship crossings was drawing to a close, and no other great ships could be expected to follow the QE2, as indeed they have not.
        If the QE2 was sailing against the winds of change, Captain Warwick (the second ''w'' is silent) was an ideal choice for command. A man who insisted on spelling his nickname Bil (''The world is full of Bills with two 'l's''), he had begun going against the grain early.
        A native of Birkenhead, near Liverpool, where his father was an architect, he had planned on being an architect, too. Then, as a headstrong 15-year-old, he refused to part his hair the way school authorities ordered him to and his schooling came to an end.
        As a result, he was sent to a naval training vessel and found a home for life. Joining the British Merchant Service in 1928, he earned his Master Mariner's Certificate in 1936 and joined Cunard in 1937, as third officer on the Lancastria.
        He was commissioned in the Royal Naval Reserve the same year, and after the outbreak of World War II in 1939 served for six years at sea, first on coastal patrol, then on North Atlantic convoy duty and eventually in support of the Normandy landings.
        Along the way, one of his ships was torpedoed south of Iceland but sank so slowly that in a gesture befitting a future Cunard master, before abandoning ship he went to his cabin and put on his best uniform.
        He returned to Cunard after the war, achieving his first command, of the cargo ship Alsatia, in the early 1950's, and commanding his first passenger ship, the Carinthia, in 1958.
        By the time Cunard commissioned the QE2 at the end of 1964, he had commanded all the line's passenger ships and served as relief master of both the Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth. Two years later, in December, 1966, as one of 27 Cunard captains, he was named master of the QE2, then under construction at the John Brown Shipyard in Clydebank, near Glasgow, and spent the next two years as Cunard's liaison with the shipbuilders.
        Cunard had initially planned to call the ship simply Queen Elizabeth, after the majestic predecessor she was intended to replace, but the Queen, who had been 12 when her mother, then Queen Elizabeth and now the Queen Mother, had named the original in 1938, had ideas of her own. At the launching on Sept. 2, 1968, she ignored an envelope containing the intended name and declared, ''I name this ship Queen Elizabeth the Second. May God bless her and all who sail in her.''
        Cunard then adopted the style, Queen Elizabeth 2, rather than Queen Elizabeth II, to differentiate ship from sovereign.
        After his triumphal arrival in New York, Captain Warwick, who was promoted to Commodore the next year, generally had smooth sailing. More hotel executive than skipper (to prepare for his role he had studied market research, economics and industrial relations), he spent most of his time working on papers in his office under the bridge, but during his three years at sea with the QE2 he regularly entertained royalty, political and business leaders and show business celebrities at the captain's table.
        With a competent staff of officers to rely on, he generally made only token visits to the bridge, but when he arrived in New York during a tugboat strike in a February freeze in 1970, he refused even the services of a pilot, and insisted on docking the ship, himself, a task that required repeated rammings to break through thick Hudson River ice. ''It's my ship,'' he explained.
        After his retirement in 1975, Commodore Warwick spent most of his time at his home in rural Surrey, far  from the sea, with his wife, Evelyn, a former Cunard hairdresser, who survives him. Other survivors include three sons, all of whom became ship's officers, and a grandson, Samuel, who maintains a QE2 web site (www.odin.co.uk/qe2/index.html).
        The QE2 has long been the only ship to maintain regular passenger service between Southampton and New York (she spends the winter on Caribbean, world and party cruises), and Commodore Warwick had intended to be on board for her official 30th anniversary crossing in April.
        Still, when the ship sails into New York harbor on April 20, a burly, bearded man named Warwick may be on the bridge. It will not be a ghost, but one of the Commodore's sons, Capt. Ronald W. Warwick, master of the QE2.
        Correction:  March 17, 1999, Wednesday  A picture caption on Monday with an obituary about Commodore William E. Warwick, the former first master of the Queen Elizabeth 2, misidentified the ship he was standing on. It was the Queen Elizabeth, on which he also served, not the QE2.
      