
        Del Close, an actor, improvisational comic and mentor to such comedians as John Belushi, John Candy and Bill Murray, died on March 4 at Illinois Masonic Hospital in Chicago. He was 64 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was emphysema, said Charna Halpern, his partner for the last 15 years at Improv Olympic, a theater school and performance space.
        A lifelong devotee of improvisational comedy, Mr. Close was one of those show business legends whose influence was felt far beyond his  limited fame. As one of the founders of the Committee, the San Francisco comedy troupe of the 1960's; as a longtime performer with and director of the Second City troupe in Chicago, and as a resident coach of the ''Saturday Night Live'' troupe during its early years, Mr. Close played guru to many of the most prominent comedians of the last quarter century.
        Mercurial and hard-living, he had a dark -- some said morbid -- sense of humor, which was evident on the night before he died. Some 50 of his friends, including Mr. Murray and the director Harold Ramis, gathered in his hospital room for a raucous farewell, during which, among other things, Mr. Close bequeathed his skull to the Goodman Theater and telephoned his final instructions to the group he had been coaching, the Upright Citizens Brigade.
        Mr. Close never married and leaves no immediate survivors.
        The son of a jeweler, Del Close was born on March 9, 1934, in Manhattan, Kan. He was a second cousin of Dwight D. Eisenhower. As a teen-ager, he left home to join a traveling carnival, learning to swallow fire and survive as the target of a knife thrower. In the mid-1950's, he joined  the St. Louis company of the Compass Players, an improvisational troupe created by Mike Nichols and Elaine May. The troupe was a direct ancestor of Second City, which was founded in 1959 and which Mr. Close joined in 1962. By then he had performed on Broadway in a comedy about beatniks called ''The Nervous Set.''
        For the next two decades, he had an on-again, off-again relationship with Second City, which grew ever rockier as his predilection for improvisation clashed with the troupe's scripted sketches. He finally left in 1983, joining Ms. Halpern at Improv Olympic, where they developed a method, which they called the Harold, for creating extended comic improvisations.
        Over the years, Mr. Close created two comedy albums, ''How to Speak Hip'' and ''The Do-It-Yourself Psychoanalysis Kit.'' He acted in many films, including ''Ferris Bueller's Day Off,'' ''The Untouchables'' and ''Fat Man and Little Boy.'' He also appeared onstage, most recently in the 1995 Steppenwolf revival of Sam Shepard's ''Buried Child'' and in Peter Sellars's 1994 production, at the Goodman, of ''The Merchant of Venice,'' which was set in Venice Beach, Calif.
        Shakespeare sounded a continuous note in Mr. Close's life. In 1975, he played Polonius in a production of ''Hamlet,'' at the Wisdom Bridge Theater in Chicago, directed by Robert Falls, and in his second album, he imagined Sigmund Freud with Hamlet as a patient.
        He underscored the theme with his deathbed bequest to the Goodman, where Mr. Falls is now the artistic director. ''It was so he could play Yorick in their next 'Hamlet' production,'' Ms. Halpern said. ''But he was also willing to be an extra, you know, a desert skull if they needed one for a western. That's the quintessential Del. He's still getting laughs even when he's gone.''
        Correction:  March 22, 1999, Monday  An obituary of the improvisational comic Del Close on Tuesday misstated the year he appeared as Polonius in a production of ''Hamlet'' at the Wisdom Bridge Theater in Chicago. It was 1985, not 1975.
      