
        Robert Quarles Marston, a leading medical educator and researcher who fought for the separation of science and politics while he directed the National Institutes of Health in the Nixon Administration, died on Sunday at a hospice in Gainesville, Fla. He was 76 and had lived on a farm in nearby Alachua.
        The cause was cancer, according to the University of Florida, which Dr. Marston helped gain national stature before retiring as president emeritus in 1984.
        Dr. Marston, a former Rhodes scholar from Virginia, had a meteoric rise and abrupt fall in the Federal Government's medical hierarchy. He was chosen by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968 to serve as the ninth director of the health institutes, which are largely autonomous.
        He succeeded the celebrated Dr. James A. Shannon, during whose 13-year stewardship the agency had become one of the world's foremost centers of research and education in medicine, biology and public health. Its reputation for excellence had flourished along with manifold increases in budget, staff, training programs and laboratories devoted to various facets of human health.
        Dr. Marston took over at a crossroads for the agency, which was facing Congressional unwillingness to finance basic scientific investigation rather than research that paid off quickly at the patient's bedside. Medical education in the country was in dire financial straits.
        Further clouding the picture for the institutes' comprehensive approach to health issues was the all-out war against cancer declared by President Richard M. Nixon. By the early 1970's scientists like Dr. Marston registered their doubts about singling out cancer, heart disease or any politically resonant illness to the detriment of other areas, like child care.
        In 1972, Dr. Marston drafted an internal memorandum to warn that the shift in financing was curtailing important biomedical research. Nixon, he advised his political superiors at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, should be made aware of the long-range impact this would have on the nation's health.
        The disagreement over allocations and priorities spilled over into the public arena in the 1972 election year. Dr. Marston was abruptly dismissed that December, prompting an outcry from the scientific community. Other administrators, managers and scientists in the department were forced to resign as well in the ensuing shake-up.
        Born in Toano, Va., Robert Quarles Marston graduated from the Virginia Military Institute in 1943 and from the Medical College of Virginia in 1947. At Oxford, he studied under Dr. Howard Florey, a developer of penicillin and winner of the Nobel Prize.
        He completed his training at Vanderbilt University Hospital and the Medical College of Virginia, where he started his academic career in 1954. He was vice chancellor of the University of Mississippi and dean of its medical school in 1966 when the health institutes named him associate director of its regional medical programs on heart, cancer and stroke.
        He became president of the University of Florida in 1974. In 10 years at the helm, he oversaw a sizable growth in endowment, enrollment and campus building, and he laid the groundwork for the university's admission to the Association of American Universities, which gave it national recognition.
        Dr. Marston's survivors include a daughter, Ann Wright Peace, of Tappahannock, Va.; two sons, Robert D., of Newport News, Va., and W. Wesley, of Gainesville; and six grandchildren. His wife, Ann Carter Garnett Marston, died last July after 51 years of marriage.
      