
        C. Clyde Atkins, a former chief judge of the Federal District Court in Miami, died last Thursday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. A resident of Miami, he was 84.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his secretary, Diana Johnson-Martin.
        Judge Atkins, a nominee of President Lyndon B. Johnson, drew national attention as an effective defender of the homeless in his jurisdiction who set an example for officials elsewhere. But his efforts to shield Cuban and Haitian refugees from deportation ran counter to official policy in the Bush and Clinton Administrations, which eventually won on appeal.
        In 1992, he held that the City of Miami had violated the Constitution by letting the police systematically harass and chase the homeless off the streets, often destroying their meager possessions in the process. He ordered the local authorities to create two ''safe zones'' where the homeless might eat and sleep without fear of arrest.
        The city first said it would appeal that ruling but later agreed to out-of-court negotiations that resolved the matter in late 1997 after nearly 10 years of litigation. The agreement between Miami officials and the American Civil Liberties Union, which was supervised by Judge Atkins, called for educating police officers on the causes of homelessness and the needs and rights of homeless people.
        Serving as a model for other cities, the settlement established a system to help the homeless with shelter, job training, counseling and other assistance.
        Judge Atkins's championship of civil liberties led him to spar for years with the Bush and Clinton Administrations over the fate of thousands of Cuban and Haitian boat people held at the United States Naval Base at Guantanamo, Cuba. His preliminary injunctions on their behalf were overturned by appeals judges who on their behalf were overturned by appeals judges who ruled that the refugees, not being in the United States proper, could claim no right of asylum.
        In another noted ruling issued in 1970 after the poet Allen Ginsberg had his microphone cut off when he used obscenities in a reading at Miami Marine Stadium, Judge Atkins ordered Miami to give the poet another reading, free of charge.
        ''Freedom of expression,'' he wrote, ''is a sacred constitutional right.''
        Carl Clyde Atkins was born in Washington and graduated from the University of Florida Law School in 1936. He went into practice that year in Stuart, Fla., at the age of 21.
        He moved to Miami in 1941 and worked there as a law partner until he was sworn in as a Federal District judge for the Southern District of Florida in August 1966. In his early years on the bench, he was randomly assigned some cases that later brought him considerable public attention, including the desegregation of the Dade County and St. Lucie County school systems, the Ginsberg poetry case, a National Airlines strike and an environmental dispute involving Florida Power and Light's Turkey Point nuclear plant.
        He served as chief judge from 1977 to 1983. He then took senior status but continued with a heavy work load and also sat on panels of the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit. He was a prominent Roman Catholic layman and, from 1989 to 1995, served as Miami regional chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Judge Atkins is survived by his wife of 61 years, Esther Castillo Atkins; a daughter, Julie A. Landrigan of Arlington, Va.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      