
        Harry Callahan, a photographer whose pictures married the elegant precision of American modernists like Ansel Adams with the restless experimental spirit of European modernists like Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, died on Monday at his home in Atlanta. He was 86.
        Mr. Callahan was something of a diamond in the rough, having come to photography with no formal training in the arts. Nevertheless, in a career that spanned more than 50 years, he produced some of this century's most complex and sophisticated photographs.
        He also was enormously influential as a teacher, at the Institute of Design in Chicago and the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence. Reticent, and uncomfortable when talking about the meaning of photographs in critical terms, he taught primarily by example. His legendary dedication to craft and camera work set the standard for a younger generation of photographers who combined, like their mentor, simultaneous careers as artists and teachers. ''I sort of wish sometimes that I had cared about something else, but I haven't,'' Mr. Callahan once said. ''My whole drive has been to take pictures. It's the only thing I have ever been good at.''
        John Szarkowski, former director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, once described Mr. Callahan's approach as ''not to bend photography to his purposes, but rather to immerse himself in its will -- to make himself its instrument and servant.''
        Mr. Szarkowski organized a retrospective exhibition of Mr. Callahan's work at the Modern in 1976. Mr. Callahan also represented the United States in the Venice Biennale in 1978 with the painter Richard Diebenkorn.
        Mr. Callahan's photographs are marked both by his interest in the formal properties of the medium and by a beguiling sense of emotional intimacy. He often emphasized the extremes of the tonal scale, preferring near-black and near-white to middle tones of gray, and he experimented with multiple exposures, motion and other techniques that caused his pictures to stray from a purely factual rendition of the world.
        His favorite subject, other than light itself, was his wife, Eleanor, whose face and whose figure, clothed or often nude, appear in scores of his best photographs. He also photographed city streets and pedestrians in Chicago, where he lived from 1946 to 1961, as well as weeds, telephone wires, beaches and the skyscrapers of New York -- all with the aim of revealing the graphic beauty residing in ordinary, often overlooked objects or passages of daily life.
        A comparison of two of his early pictures, ''Detroit, 1941'' and ''Sunlight on Water, 1943,'' illustrates the artistic versatility and resourcefulness that Mr. Callahan exhibited throughout his career. In the former, reeds stick out of a nearly white pond like black strokes of ink; in the latter, the water forms a black ground on which bright white circles of sunlight play. In essence, the two pictures are opposite sides of the same calligraphic coin.
        His much-admired photographs of his wife range from an extreme, high-key close-up of her face and arms -- ''Eleanor, 1947'' to a dune-covered landscape ''Eleanor, Indiana, 1948'' -- in which she appears, arms crossed above her head, only as a small dark speck in the distance. One of his better-known pictures, ''Eleanor, Chicago, 1949,'' is a close-up of his wife's head rising from the lake, the whiteness of her strong face contrasting with her long black hair trailing in the water.
        Influenced partly by the climate of experimentation that prevailed at the Institute of Design, which Moholy-Nagy had founded in 1937 as a new Bauhaus in the United States, Mr. Callahan developed a repertory of techniques that became the cornerstones of his readily recognizable style. In one series, he double-exposed his film but rotated it 180 degrees between exposures, producing vertiginous visual puzzles. In a related series, he made exposures in the landscape and re-exposed the undeveloped film indoors to superimpose the scene with the nude body of his wife. In the early 1950's he also experimented with color slide films, which had recently been introduced by Eastman Kodak.
        But unlike Moholy-Nagy, who died in 1946 soon after Mr. Callahan arrived to teach, he never believed that formal experimentation was an end in itself. Instead, he subscribed to the notion that the camera was a tool of personal revelation and expression, and all his experiments with the formal potentials of his medium bear the marks of a singular sensibility.
        Mr. Callahan became a teacher of photography after World War II,  when interest in the artistic potentials of the medium was increasing exponentially. Together with Aaron Siskind, with whom he taught at both the Institute of Design in Chicago and the Rhode Island School of Design, he trained a generation of photographic artists and teachers who filled the demand for teachers of photography in the 1960's and 70's on the college level.
        As a teacher Mr. Callahan preferred to let students learn by looking closely at their own and one another's pictures as well as by letting them see his latest work in its formative, uncertain stages. The process of discovery via the camera was what interested him most. ''Photography is an adventure just as life is an adventure,'' Mr. Callahan once said, adding that an artist necessarily came to understand the two in tandem.
        His students, of whom Linda Connor, Emmet Gowin, Joseph Jachna, Kenneth Josephson, Ray K. Metzker and Art Sinsabaugh are among the best known, have often cited his work ethic and dedication to the fine print as major influences on their careers.  He disdained the temptations (including the income) of magazine and advertising work and he was able to pursue his own work even while maintaining a heavy teaching load.
        Harry Morey Callahan was born in Detroit on Oct. 22, 1912, the son of Harry Arthur Callahan, a farmer, and his wife, the former Hazel Mills. He attended Michigan State University as an engineering major, but dropped out and did odd jobs to support himself. He met Eleanor Knapp on a blind date and married her in 1936. He first took up the camera in 1938 while working as a clerk for Chrysler Motors in Detroit, teaching himself the rudiments on a Rolleicord. In 1941 he attended a workshop by Ansel Adams at the Detroit Photo Guild; it was an encounter that profoundly affected his photographic style and his ambitions.
        Mr. Callahan was impressed not only with the indelible technical quality of Adams's Western landscapes but also the older artist's unshakable belief in the idea that photography was a form of art. As a result he  switched to an 8-by-10 view camera, like that used by Adams, and began to concentrate his attention on recording tones of light and shadow, rather than merely subject matter.
        Years later he recalled being impressed by some of Adams's pictures of ordinary ground, which indicated to him that anything -- not just spectacular landscapes -- was an appropriate subject for photographs. ''That was probably the most freeing thing that ever happened to me,'' he  said in 1982. ''From then on, even though I hadn't made a picture, I thought I was a great artist.''
        After working in the photo processing laboratory of General Motors for two years, Mr. Callahan was hired in 1946 to teach at the Institute of Design, which Moholy-Nagy, a former teacher at the Bauhaus, had founded in Chicago after emigrating from Europe. The school's mission was to train designers and architects, but Moholy-Nagy included photography in the curriculum as a means of studying light, which he believed an essential element of design. Mr. Callahan was not the first to teach photography at the school, but he became the dominant figure in the photography curriculum.
        In 1949 Mr. Callahan became head of the Institute of Design's photography department, a position he held until 1961. He added Aaron Siskind to the Institute's photography faculty in 1951, and together they started a graduate program that served as a model for scores of similar programs throughout the country.
        Modifying the original Bauhaus-inspired curriculum, Mr. Callahan injected the possibility of personal expression and subjectivity into a learning method that previously had prized experimentation as the means to a purely objective vision. In his own art, the penchant for experimentation remained inseparable from the individuality of his style, in which photographic description often seemed to resemble that of drawing.
        At the Rhode Island School of Design, where he was chairman of the photography department from 1961 to 1973, Mr. Callahan continued to inspire students with his workmanlike attitude and devotion to graphic discovery. He revisited techniques that had inspired him two decades earlier like in-camera multiple exposures, and he expanded his range to include pictures of Colonial row houses in Providence and empty beaches on Cape Cod. He retired from teaching in 1977, at 65, turning the school's photography program over to his lifelong colleague, Siskind.
        Mr. Callahan stayed in Providence for 10 more years, then moved with his wife to Atlanta. She survives him, along with their daughter, Barbara Hollinger, and two grandchildren.
        Retirement from teaching freed Mr. Callahan to expand the parameters of his work. In addition to traveling to Ireland and South America to take pictures, he renewed his interest in color photography. A 1980 book, ''Harry Callahan: Color,'' revealed the extent of his earlier work in color as well as his skill in using newer, more faithful color materials. His work began to be widely exhibited and collected at the close of his teaching career.
        Mr. Callahan's work was shown frequently at the Museum of Modern Art during his lifetime, including exhibitions in 1951, 1962 (with Robert Frank) and 1968 as well as the 1976 retrospective. His photographs have also been featured in exhibitions at the Art Institute of Chicago, the George Eastman House in Rochester, N.Y., the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and the National Gallery of Art in Washington. In the 1970's his work was shown and sold by Light Gallery, and after that by Pace Wildenstein MacGill.
        Other books of Mr. Callahan's photographs include ''Callahan'' (Aperture, 1976); ''Eleanor'' (Callaway, 1984), and ''Harry Callahan: New Color, Photographs 1978-1987'' (Hallmark, 1988).
        His obsessive interest in light, line and space and their interplay drove him to photograph one subject at a time exhaustively. ''I experiment with various techniques.'' he once explained,'' to help me see things differently from the way I saw them before. That is seeing photographically, and when you see photographically you really see.''
      