
        Arthur Doak Barnett, a leading scholar and government adviser on China, died on Monday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 77. The cause was respiratory failure, the family said, and friends said he also had lung cancer.
        Born to missionary parents in Shanghai in 1921, Mr. Barnett, who used his middle name, was among the most prolific writers about Chinese affairs. But he was best known for working behind the scenes in Congress and the Executive branch to improve relations between China and the United States.
        His influence always seemed to be greater than indicated by his official positions, which included a long stint at the Brookings Institution in Washington and teaching posts at Columbia and Johns Hopkins universities.
        Until recently he ran a salon on China policy that moved from his living room in McLean, Va., to those of other participants, including analysts from the Central Intelligence Agency, academic specialists and current and former ambassadors.
        In 1966 he was the principal witness for an extensive review of China policy conducted by Senator J. William Fulbright, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. At the time China was regarded as an implacable enemy of the United States, a supporter of the North Vietnamese war effort and a virulent force seeking to topple democratic governments like so many dominoes.
        Mr. Barnett quietly encouraged both President Lyndon B. Johnson and President Richard M. Nixon to end China's isolation. And it was Mr. Barnett who coined the formula ''containment without isolation'' to describe a diplomatic opening that still recognized China's danger.
        The Fulbright hearings are thought to have influenced Nixon, who wrote the following year in the journal Foreign Affairs, ''Taking the long view, we simply cannot afford to leave China forever outside the family of nations, there to nurture its fantasies, cherish its hates and threaten its neighbors.''
        In an interview last May, Mr. Barnett recalled debating the merits of improving relations with China in a private meeting between Nixon and China scholars in 1969.
        ''I always felt that Nixon was the guy, because of his background,'' Mr. Barnett said, referring to Nixon's conservative credentials. ''I am not sure the Democrats would have been capable of taking a major step toward China because of the fear of being clobbered.''
        Yet the Democrats tried, and even Johnson flirted with an overture to China, in July 1967, after the Fulbright hearings. ''There was a rising tide in the country that the time had come for re-examination on China,'' said Jerome A. Cohen, a scholar of Chinese law and one of Mr. Barnett's colleagues. ''It was in the air.''
        Ever since the opening to China in 1972, as the pendulum of public attitudes toward China has swung from buoyant goodwill to harsh criticism of Chinese human rights policies, Mr. Barnett has been there offering government officials insight, analysis and advice -- after the 1989 Tiananmen massacre and again when the Clinton Administration clashed with China in 1993 over human rights and weapons proliferation.
        ''For many years in Washington, he was the institutional memory that the State Department did not have,'' said Ezra F. Vogel, a sociologist at Harvard University and a former analyst of Asian affairs for the Clinton Administration.
        Over the years, Mr. Barnett remained confident that the tally of common interests between China and the United States was greater than the points of contention.
        Just a few days ago, one of the Clinton Administration's leading China experts, Kenneth W. Lieberthal, was in Mr. Barnett's hospital room to visit, but also to commiserate over increasing tensions with Beijing over allegations that China had stolen nuclear design secrets from the Los Alamos laboratories in New Mexico and over China's poor record on human rights.
        Mr. Lieberthal, a former graduate student under Mr. Barnett at Columbia, said that when he entered the hospital room, all Mr. Barnett wanted to talk about was China and the current ''nose dive'' in relations. He counseled that the Administration should maintain a long-term perspective because the rising level of commerce and other interaction would hold the relationship together.
        When Mr. Lieberthal got up to leave, Mr. Barnett said, ''I've got to tell you, Ken, I am still cautiously optimistic.''
        During his academic career, Mr. Barnett wrote or edited more than 20 books about China, and in the prologue to his 1993 study of four decades of change in ''China's Far West,'' he wrote that despite his extensive knowledge of China, ''I am less impressed by what I have learned over the years than about what I still must learn to understand China.'' In an era of pundits and instant experts, Mr. Barnett was refreshingly humbled by his subject.
        During the interview last year, just as President Clinton was preparing for his first trip to China, Mr. Barnett lamented the fact that the Administration had lurched about on China policy so much that ''there is still no political framework on which anyone can articulate a policy.''
        He said such a framework would only come from a ''strong President who takes the leadership responsibility to mobilize support and deal with Congress.''
        Mr. Barnett was the son of Eugene and Bertha Barnett. His father was working in China for the Young Men's Christian Association and the family did not return to the United States until 1936. The young Barnett graduated summa cum laude from Yale University in 1942, with a degree in international relations. He spent World War II in the Marine Corps, advancing from private to lieutenant while serving stateside and in the Pacific.
        He earned an M.A. degree in international relations at Yale and a certificate from the Yale Institute of Far Eastern Languages in 1947.
        That year he went back to Asia as a fellow of the Institute of Current World Affairs, and as a correspondent for The Daily News of Chicago, he chronicled the devastation of the Chinese civil war, which pitted Chiang Kai-shek and his Nationalists against Mao's Communists.
        Mr. Barnett stayed in Asia until 1950, when almost all foreigners were pushed out of China at the outset of the Korean War. But it was that journey, and a return tour in 1988, that provided the material for his 1993 book on the country's western provinces, the area of China that is least known to the outside world.
        In 1950-51, Mr. Barnett served as a public affairs officer in the American Consulate in Hong Kong, helping to analyze China's internal politics and draft recommendations for propaganda campaigns. Beginning in 1952, he spent four years as an associate of the American Universities Field Staff in Hong Kong.
        Professor Vogel said Mr. Barnett, as a program director for the Ford Foundation in Hong Kong in the late 1950's, channeled substantial funds to research projects on China at a time when many foundations did not want to because of the hostile politics of the McCarthy era.
        Mr. Barnett held teaching and consulting positions at the State Department Foreign Service Institute, Syracuse University, the National Planning Association and the Ford Foundation before accepting a professorship at Columbia in 1961.
        Among his students at Columbia were Mr. Lieberthal and Michel Oksenberg, who took part in the secret negotiations by the Carter Administration that led to the establishment of diplomatic relations with China on Jan. 1, 1979.
        Mr. Barnett went to the Brookings Institution in 1969 and in 1982 he was named the George and Sadie Hyman Professor of Chinese Studies at the Johns Hopkins Nitze School of Advanced International Studies in Washington. He retired in 1989.
        Mr. Barnett is survived by his wife of 45 years, Jeanne Badeau Barnett; two daughters, Katherine H. Barnett of Richmond, Ind., and Martha D. Schultz of Lorton, Va., and a son, Stewart, of Cary, N.C..
        Correction:  March 20, 1999, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about A. Doak Barnett, the scholar and government adviser on China, misstated the day of his death. It was Wednesday, not Monday.
      