
        Bob Cato, a ground-breaking graphic designer who helped turn the record album cover into an important form of contemporary art, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Kate Jennings.
        During 10 years as an art director and the vice president of creative services for CBS-Columbia Records, Mr. Cato created or supervised some of the most memorable record-album covers of the 1960's. It was his idea to put the work of the underground illustrator R. Crumb on Janis Joplin's ''Cheap Thrills.''
        Some covers featured his own photography, for instance on Miles Davis's ''Miles'' album. Mr. Cato employed some of the era's most influential painters, designers and photographers for other covers, among them Andy Warhol and Robert Rauschenberg.
        He also worked with musicians ranging from Thelonious Monk to the Band to Johnny Mathis to Leonard Bernstein.
        For his cover designs, Mr. Cato was awarded two Grammys by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. They were for Barbra Streisand's ''People'' (1964) and for ''Bob Dylan's Greatest Hits'' (1967). In 1997 the recording academy  awarded Mr. Cato its President's Merit Award.
        Mr. Cato was intimately involved in the conception and sometimes even the naming of recordings. When Ms. Joplin came to see him about the packaging of a record she had just completed with Big Brother and the Holding Company she rapidly agreed that Mr. Crumb, the underground comic artist, could provide a look raw enough to match the music.
        But the singer also wanted an equally inelegant title, which she insisted should be ''Sex, Dope and Cheap Thrills.''
        ''The title didn't seem quite right to me,'' Mr. Cato wrote years later in an unpublished memoir.
        Mr. Cato suggested to Ms. Joplin that the words ''sex'' and ''dope'' on the cover would limit the record's radio airplay, and recommended using only the last two words for the title.
        Ms. Joplin agreed, saying, ''Well, I've always settled for cheap thrills, anyway.''
        Mr. Cato was born in New Orleans in 1923, the son of Ysabel Soto, a teacher who immigrated to the United States from Cuba, and Robert Bailey Cato, an executive. At the age of 15, on a family trip to Mexico City, he met and began studying art with the painters Pablo O'Higgins and Jose Clemente Orozco.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons from an earlier marriage, Eric, of Brooklyn and Marc, of Southampton, N.Y.
        After World War II, during which Mr. Cato, a Quaker, was imprisoned as a conscientious objector, he moved to Chicago, where he studied briefly under the Bauhaus designer Laszlo Moholy-Nagy.
        In 1947 he went to Philadelphia to study with the art director and designer Alexey Brodovitch. After Mr. Brodovitch was hurt in a car accident Mr. Cato became his driver and cook, and subsequently became his assistant at Harper's Bazaar, where Mr. Brodovitch was transforming magazine and fashion design with an innovative mixture of open space, sharp typography, photography and Modernist art, characteristics that would also define Mr. Cato's own work over the next several decades.
        Through the late 1940's and the  50's Mr. Cato was an art director at Junior Bazaar, Theater Arts, Dance and Glamour magazines while continuing to paint and exhibit.
        In 1960 he began his association with the recording industry, at CBS/ Columbia Records. He remained there for a decade. After short stints at McCall's magazine and at Revlon, he returned to the music business, as vice president for creative services at United Artists Records and Films in Los Angeles.
        During his 50-year career, Mr. Cato taught at the School of Visual Arts and the Rochester Institute of Technology. He also served as an art director for consumer-products companies.
        Mr. Cato devoted much of his last 10 years of work to fine art, photography and producing books, including ''Joyce Images'' (1994), a collection of photos and art devoted to James Joyce.
      