
        Ray Forrest, who worked for many years at his family's jewelry store in Paterson, N.J., died on March 11 at a hospital near his home in Kinnelon, N.J. He was 83 and all but forgotten as the man who became a hero to hundreds in 1939 as the nation's first television personality.
        If Mr. Forrest is better remembered among older New York television viewers for the acclaimed educational program ''Children's Theater,'' which he produced and was the host of for WNBC-TV from 1949 to 1960, there is a reason his earlier work has been virtually forgotten.
        At the time he became the most visible presence on television, there were fewer than 1,000 television sets in existence.
        Wearing a tuxedo to intone the formal sign-on when NBC went on the air each evening, Mr. Forrest announced every station break and every program. There he was, covering wrestling, boxing, hockey, horse racing and movie premieres; interviewing men and women on the street; introducing dramatic productions; serving as quiz show announcer and variety show host and even becoming the network's first full-time news anchor (after Lowell Thomas, whose radio news had been simulcast on television, decided to do his broadcasts from his upstate home).
        Mr. Forrest, then a 23-year-old junior radio announcer at NBC, was not present at the opening of the New York World's Fair on April 30, 1939, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt and David Sarnoff, the president of the Radio Corporation of America, NBC's parent, inaugurated regular television programming with a broadcast over NBC's experimental station, W2XBS.
        Indeed, for months the station employed no announcers, recruiting them as the occasional need arose from NBC's radio staff, a process that so irritated the radio network's crusty chief of announcers that by the fall he had persuaded the station to stop pestering him and take on one of his six junior announcers full time.
        Mr. Forrest won the job, and for the next two and a half years almost every time he opened his mouth he made television history.
        He was the on-board announcer for the first airborne telecast, from a United Airlines plane flying low over New York City on March 6, 1940, and later that year he was the NBC announcer at the first televised political convention, in Philadelphia, where the Republicans nominated Wendell Willkie. (CBS, which was racking up some firsts of its own, broadcast the convention in color.)
        The next year it was Mr. Forrest who read the formal announcement on camera when W2XBS, newly licensed by the Federal Communications Commission and renamed WNBT (it later became WNBC), ushered in the era of commercial television on July 1, 1941.
        The first commercial, a film showing a ticking Bulova watch, used no announcer, but three days later, on July 4, Mr. Forrest did the first live television commercial, for Adam hats, a chore that earned him no sponsor's fee unless you count the hat. Mr. Forrest got to keep it.
        Later that year Mr. Forrest apparently became the first television announcer to break into a program with a news bulletin, interrupting a Sunday afternoon movie, ''The Playboy'' with Harry Richman, to announce that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor.
        For Mr. Forrest, a native of Germany who came to the United States with his family in 1923 and got his broadcasting start at 20 with a job in the NBC mail room in 1936, those were heady days. But World War II interrupted both the development of television and his own career, and by the time he returned from service in 1946, television was in the midst of its postwar boom and he was no longer the only kid on the block.
        Still, he was almost as busy as ever, among other things serving as the announcer for ''In the Kelvinator Kitchen,'' an early cooking show, in 1947, and as the announcer and eventually the host of ''TV Screen Magazine,'' one of the first television magazine shows, in 1948 and 1949.
        Then he was asked to produce and be the host of ''Children's Theater,'' and Mr. Forrest made what he regarded as his most important contribution to television.
        Dismayed by plans to have him introduce Hollywood comedy shorts that he found full of racial stereotypes and sexual innuendo, Mr. Forrest obtained grudging permission to use high-quality science and nature films, but was warned he would lose his audience within two weeks.
        Instead, as he recalled in ''The Box,'' an oral history of television compiled by Jeff Kisseloff and published by Viking in 1995, the ratings shot up, and within months he dominated his 6:30 P.M. weekday slot.
        Although it drew reams of appreciative mail from parents, the program attracted no sponsors, and after a couple of years it was canceled, drawing such an outpouring of protests it was immediately reinstated as a 90-minute Saturday morning fixture, and Mr. Forrest was off and running again, turning the basement of his Ridgewood, N.J., home into a one-man production studio, where he edited educational films, including many he made himself.
        When the program went off the air in 1960, Mr. Forrest, whose original name was Feuerstein, joined the family jewelry business, content that he had done his duty by creating the first truly educational program.
        He is survived by his wife, Charlotte; a son, Ray Jr. of Franklin Lakes, N.J., and two granddaughters.
      