
        George E. Reedy, a thoughtful reporter who served both as Lyndon B. Johnson's press secretary and as one of his private whipping boys, died today at the St. John's Tower nursing home in Milwaukee. He was 81 and had lived for many years in Milwaukee, where he was on the faculty of Marquette University.
        Mr. Reedy was as close to an intellectual as a press secretary is likely to be. After leaving the White House, Mr. Reedy wrote many books and articles on politics in general and the White House in particular, becoming one of the first to warn that an expanding staff and the increasing isolation of the President was threatening to create an imperial Presidency.
        In an Op-Ed article for The New York Times in 1971, Mr. Reedy wrote that a raging debate inside the Government over the war in Vietnam was largely unknown to the American people.
        ''The public's business -- at the highest level of life and death -- was being determined as though it were none of the public's business,'' he wrote.
        ''We can survive leadership that makes mistakes, even when the errors border on the catastrophic. But there is real question whether democracy can survive procedures which exclude the people from decisions.''
        Mr. Reedy was born in East Chicago, Ill., and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1938. Mr. Reedy's son Michael recalled today that family lore had it that while an undergraduate, Mr. Reedy ''learned Greek so he could read Aristotle in the original and one-up Hutchins,'' a reference to the university's legendary former president, Robert Maynard Hutchins.
        He had a comic side as well.
        ''He played the saxophone,'' Joseph Laitin, his deputy press secretary at the White House, said, ''and he couldn't get work during the Depression. One day, he accepted a job as a clown playing the saxophone for a circus in Chicago and that's how he earned the money for his tuition.''
        After graduation, Mr. Reedy joined the Washington bureau of The United Press as a reporter covering agencies and Congress. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Forces as a radar intelligence officer, participating in bombing missions in the Pacific.
        Mr. Reedy rejoined The U.P., now United Press International, after the war and was assigned to the Senate, where he covered, among others, the ambitious Senator Johnson.
        During that time, he married Lillian Greenwald, who died in 1984 after a marriage of 36 years. He is survived by his second wife, Ruth B. Wissman Reedy, from whom he was separated, and two sons, Michael A. Reedy of Stoughton, Wis., and William J. Reedy of Moretown, Vt.
        In 1951, Mr. Laitin said, Mr. Reedy told him that he was going to work for Johnson, then a Senator, and, when asked why, replied, ''Because he's going to be the President of the United States some day.''
        Mr. Laitin said that Johnson liked to joke about Mr. Reedy's intellectual capacities, recalling: ''L.B.J. once said to me, 'That man George Reedy knows more about more things that I could care less about than anyone else I've ever known. You ask him what time it is and you'll get a history of clock-making.' ''
        But Johnson also turned his mean side to Mr. Reedy, publicly criticizing his weight and huge crop of unwieldy white hair. Jack Valenti, another Johnson aide, who is now president of the Motion Picture Association of America, recalled that Johnson once ordered Mr. Reedy, good-naturedly but firmly, to get a haircut.
        ''He was cruel to George,'' Mr. Laitin said. ''Johnson was a brutal guy to work for. He would humiliate George in front of the reporters, and one day George decided to quit. To make amends, Johnson took him to his Texas ranch and gave him his Lincoln Continental.''
        After leaving the White House in 1966, Mr. Reedy joined the Struthers Wells Corporation as an executive and then went to Marquette University, where he served as dean of the journalism school, the Neiman Professor of Journalism and, in recent years, as an emeritus professor.
        His books in those years included ''The Twilight of the Presidency,'' ''Who Will Do Our Fighting for Us?'' and ''From the Ward to the White House,'' a study of Irish politics in the United States.
        The President and the press secretary had a peculiar symbiotic relationship. In one of his books, ''Lyndon B. Johnson, a Memoir,'' Mr. Reedy wrote that he had told Johnson of his flirtation with socialism during the Depression.
        ''He never once tried to find out what had made me a socialist or what had led me to renounce Marxism or what life was like on the streets of Chicago,'' Mr. Reedy wrote. ''In fact, the only time he ever mentioned my background was in a telephone conversation with a member of the House of Representatives who also had a former socialist working for him.
        ''The two men were trying to get together on an incredibly complicated bill -- which neither understood -- on labor-management relations in the construction industry. L.B.J. finally roared into the phone: 'You send your socialist over to negotiate with my socialist and we'll let them settle it.' ''
      