
        Patrick Heron, prominent in Britain since the 1940's as an abstract painter and as a vigorous critic and advocate in the international art world, died on Saturday at his home near St. Ives in Cornwall, England. He was 79.
        Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate Gallery in London, said that Mr. Heron was one of the most influential figures in postwar British art.
        In the 1960's Mr. Heron wrote, ''It is obvious that color is the only direction in which paintings can travel.'' Working with color that was saturated and voluptuous, he aimed at a boiling energy that would captivate  the observer.
        He believed that the investigation of color -- color in itself, color as form, color as the maker and definer of space -- was ''the only activity still open to a painter that was not in some way a retreat into the past.''
        In midcentury, some of Mr. Heron's paintings were tall and thin in  format and built up with narrow horizontal, interrelated bars of pure color. Nothing like them had been done  in England, and they were received with widespread perplexity.
        Later, near-circles and near-squares, each in a strong tonal contrast to the others, were intended to look as if they were moving back, forth and sideways in relation to one another. These were among the more sumptuous British abstract paintings beginning in the mid-60's.
        Mr. Heron was conspicuous as a painter, an art critic and a member of a group of artists and writers who  lived in or near St. Ives. From 1947 till 1950 he was art critic for The New Statesman, then the liveliest weekly magazine in Britain. From 1955 until 1958 he wrote regularly for the American magazine Arts.
        In the immediate postwar years he spoke out for Matisse, Picasso, Leger, Bonnard and Braque as masters who were insufficiently known in Britain.
        In St. Ives he came to know a cosmopolitan group of painters, sculptors and potters. Among them were Naum Gabo, Ben Nicholson, Barbara Hepworth, Alfred Wallis and Bernard Leach.
        Born in Leeds on Jan. 30, 1920, Patrick Heron could almost be said to have been born to color, in that his father was a textile manufacturer who in 1929 founded a firm called Cresta Silks for which Paul Nash and other well-known English artists were happy to make designs.
        Mr. Heron was honored with major exhibitions at the Whitechapel Art Gallery (1972), the Barbican Art Gallery (1985) and, above all, at the Tate Gallery in 1998. Though already frail, he was buoyed by the bravado of his lifelong delight in color.
        He was married in 1945 to Delia Reiss, who died in 1979. He is survived by two daughters.
      