
        Horace Tapscott, whose accomplishments as a jazz pianist and band leader were matched by his legacy as a local community organizer, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his manager and publicist, Corine Hunter, said.
        Few jazz musicians with an individual style and a recognized name reject the promise of an international solo career, but Mr. Tapscott, for the most part, stayed at home. His anchor was the Union of God's Musicians and Artists Ascension (Ugmaa), a collective he set up in the Watts neighborhood in 1961 to find employment for musicians, dancers and visual artists in Los Angeles.
        He also taught and guided hundreds of youths who could not afford music lessons. One of his methods of teaching young students was to enlist them in his Pan-Afrikan Peoples Arkestra, a group he conducted, supplied with compositions and kept together until his death.
        Mr. Tapscott was born in Houston and was taken to Los Angeles at the age of 9 by his mother, a stride pianist and tuba player named Mary Lou Malone. They lived close to Local 767, the city's black musicians  union, and he often spent time around older musicians and friends of the family like Buddy Collette and Gerald Wilson.
        As a teen-ager, Mr. Tapscott was a trombone player during the golden era of Central Avenue, which was the Los Angeles equivalent of New York's 125th Street -- a mecca of black American entrepreneurship and entertainment. Among his friends were soon-to-be-famous young players from the area, including the trumpeter Don Cherry, the saxophonists Eric Dolphy and Frank Morgan and the clarinetist John Carter.
        But by the early 1950's the scene had changed: the black and white musicians' unions integrated, enabling blacks to find work playing on film and television soundtracks, and simultaneously the Central Avenue clubs sputtered out. After spending four years in the United States Air Force during the 1950's, Mr. Tapscott began to think about new ways that jazz could gain some measure of respect and support within the black population of Los Angeles; a disillusioning tour of the South that he took with Lionel Hampton's big band in 1958 sharpened those ideas and led him to organize his own union.
        The organization limped along until 1965, when the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles erupted in riots. Mr. Tapscott and his Arkestra rode through the thick of it, playing on the backs of flatbed trucks. In the aftermath of the riots, the union got some state and Federal funding, and the Arkestra began to cohere through weekly performances, often in universities and churches.
        In 1968, Mr. Tapscott composed and arranged music for a memorable album by the alto saxophonist Sonny Criss called ''Birth of the New Cool.'' The first recording under his own name, ''The Giant Is Awakened,'' appeared in 1969 and introduced the saxophonist Arthur Blythe, who would become an important player in New York a decade later.
        The Arkestra was not recorded until 1978, and despite all its continuous activity -- musicians like David Murray, Butch Morris and Azar Lawrence were members for a time -- it never became a touring band; its first European concert was in 1995. (Mr. Tapscott himself had never played a significant concert in New York until he was booked at the Village Vanguard in the summer of 1991.)
        He began playing the piano in the late 1950's, after a car crash that weakened his embouchure for the trombone. He developed a loose-limbed, Thelonious Monk-inspired style, with banged dissonances and dark, seductive harmonies; it suited the percussive vamps and odd time signatures of his writing. Seven of his recordings since the mid-70's were released by the small record label Nimbus; other recordings since the 80's appeared on the Hat Hut and Arabesque labels. The latest, from 1997, is the trio recording ''Thoughts of Dar es Salaam.''
        Mr. Tapscott is survived by his wife, Cecilia; a sister, Robbie Byrd of Dallas; nine children; 21 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      