
        David Strickland, an actor who regularly appeared on the television comedy ''Suddenly Susan'' and had a supporting role in the recently released film ''Forces of Nature'' was found dead on Monday in a Las Vegas motel room. He was 29.
        The police said the death appeared to be a suicide.
        Mr. Strickland appeared to be in good spirits late last week and did not have any known work or personal problems, according to a friend in Los Angeles, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''This was out of the blue,'' the friend said.
        The Associated Press reported that records in Los Angeles indicated Mr. Strickland had been due in court on Monday in a drug case. Mr. Strickland had been arrested in October for alleged cocaine possession and later pleaded no contest, the records showed. He was put on probation for three years and ordered into a rehabilitation program. His court appearance would have been a progress report. The AP quoted Angela Cheung, a lawyer for Mr. Strickland, as declining comment.
        A brief statement released yesterday by the Las Vegas police said that Mr. Strickland, whose full name was David Gordon Strickland Jr., rented a room at the Oasis Motel on Las Vegas Boulevard South early Monday morning.
        Peter Napoli, the owner of the Oasis, which he described as an adult-oriented motel, said Mr. Strickland had rented the $64 room at 2:30 A.M. About 10:30 A.M., a call was made to the room by a desk clerk, and when no one answered, Mr. Napoli said, he and a friend entered the room and found the actor hanging from a ceiling beam by a bed sheet, a chair near his legs, a six-pack of beer nearby. Shortly afterward, Mr. Strickland was pronounced dead at the scene.
        Lieut. Rick Alba of the Las Vegas Police Department said that there was no suicide note, nor any evidence that anyone else was involved in the actor's death. ''There was nothing to indicate that it was planned,'' he said. ''It just looks like a suicide.''
        Mr. Strickland played the writer Todd on ''Suddenly Susan'' and had been on the show for the last three seasons. He also had a small part in ''Forces of Nature,'' as Sandra Bullock's jilted boyfriend. The movie opened last week and over the weekend was ranked No. 1 in box office receipts.
        ''He was a good man and a truly gifted comic actor,'' said the actor Judd Nelson, who also appeared on ''Suddenly Susan.''
        Mr. Strickland was born in Glen Cove, L.I., and raised in Princeton, N.J.; he moved to Pacific Palisades near Los Angeles while he was in high school. Before his role on ''Suddenly Susan,'' he worked on student films; he also appeared on ''Roseanne,'' ''Dave's World,'' ''Sister, Sister'' and ''Mad About You.''
        No information was immediately available about survivors.
        Correction:  March 29, 1999, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about the actor David Strickland described his role in the new film ''Forces of Nature'' incorrectly. He plays the former boyfriend of a character played by Maura Tierney, not by Sandra Bullock.
      