
        Don Taylor, a film actor of the 1940's and 50's who later turned to directing, died on Tuesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Taylor, who was born in Pittsburgh, began acting while attending Penn State University, appearing in college presentations and more than 80 summer stock productions. In his senior year, while playing the lead in ''The Taming of the Shrew,'' he attracted the attention of two Penn State alumni, Julius and Phil Epstein, the screenwriters of ''Casablanca,'' who invited him to Hollywood.
        He hitchhiked to California after graduation, and after several unsuccessful screen tests was eventually signed to a seven-year contract by MGM. While serving in the Air Force in World War II he was recruited by Irving (Swifty) Lazar for a lead role in Moss Hart's production of ''Winged Victory'' for the armed forces, and later reprised his role in the film version.
        After his discharge, he starred in the movie ''Naked City'' and then won the role of Elizabeth Taylor's bridegroom in ''Father of the Bride.'' He appeared in numerous war movies, including ''Battleground,'' with Ricardo Montalban and James Whitmore; ''Flying Leathernecks,'' with John Wayne; ''Submarine Command'' and ''Stalag 17,'' with William Holden, and ''Destination Gobi,'' with Richard Widmark.
        After moving behind the camera in the late 1950's, Mr. Taylor directed 15 movies, among them ''Escape From the Planet of the Apes,'' ''Tom Sawyer,'' ''The Island of Dr. Moreau,'' ''Damien: Omen II,'' ''The Final Countdown'' and ''Echoes of a Summer,'' as well as more than 400 television dramas.
        He was also a writer, and was nominated for an Emmy Award for his script for an NBC television show, ''The Night They Tore Down Riley's Bar.''
        He is survived by his wife, Hazel Court Taylor, an actress; two daughters, Avery Taylor Moore of San Francisco and Anne Taylor Fleming of Los Angeles; a son, Jonathan David Taylor of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Sally Walsh of Los Angeles; a sister, Janet Tuttle of Cape May, N.J., and a granddaughter.
      