
        Faneuil Adams Jr., one of America's premier patrons and aficionados of chess and its top players, died Monday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Mr. Adams, who learned the game as a child and played it all his life,  devoted himself to chess as an unpaid, full-time volunteer after a 28-year career with the Mobil Corporation. He was the American delegate to FIDE, the International Chess Federation, and on the board of its American affiliate.
        At his death he was president of Chess-in-the Schools and treasurer of the Manhattan Chess Club. Chess-in-the-Schools conducts programs in 160 city schools and has sent teams to national and international scholastic competitions.
        Faneuil Adams Jr. was born in Boston, a direct descendant of Samuel Adams and Peter Faneuil, namesake of Faneuil Hall in Boston. He graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School, and spent a year as a Fulbright Scholar in France at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques.
        He was an Army first lieutenant in the paratroops in World War II and the Korean War, winning a Bronze Star. He practiced law in New York in the early 1950's, then joined Mobil in 1956 and became a senior planner and international manager.
        He was president of Mobil South Inc. and of Mobil affiliates in Italy and Japan. While in Japan, he was also chairman of the United States-Japan Trade Study Group and vice president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. He retired from Mobil in 1985 and was a visiting professor at the Columbia University School of Business until 1993.
        He was on the policy board of the United States Chess Federation until last year. He became president of Chess-in-the-Schools in 1990. It operates primarily in inner-city areas, helping thousands of youngsters to compete in city, state and national chess tournaments.
        Mr. Adams is survived by his wife, Emiko, and his two daughters, Rebecca Adams of Hicksville, N.Y., and Susannah Adams of Branford, Conn.
      