
        James Hammerstein, a producer and a frequent director of the musicals of his father, Oscar Hammerstein 2d, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Dena.
        In more than four decades in show business, Mr. Hammerstein was a common presence in the wings in theaters throughout New York and beyond, in jobs from the menial to the executive.
        He began his career behind the scenes as an assistant stage manager but eventually formed his own production company.
        His Broadway debut as a producer came in 1958 with ''Blue Denim,'' which received respectable reviews but had a short run.
        Mr. Hammerstein's producing career continued, but he had already found another calling. In 1957 he directed the first production of ''Damn Yankees'' in London and later directed the show in over 30 productions around the United States.
        After his father's death in 1960, Mr. Hammerstein turned his attention to revivals of the work of his father and his collaborator, Richard Rodgers.
        His 1965 production of ''South Pacific'' at City Center was a critical and popular hit.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, Mr. Hammerstein directed the New York premieres of Harold Pinter's ''Tea Party,'' Simon Gray's ''Butley'' and ''Wise Child'' and Israel Horowitz's ''Indian Wants the Bronx.''
        Mr. Hammerstein also continued to stage revivals of Rodgers and Hammerstein musicals, including a 1981 production of ''Oklahoma!'' in London, a national tour of ''The King and I'' in 1989 and a 1990 production of ''The Sound of Music'' at the New York City Opera.
        In 1996, Mr. Hammerstein was co-director of ''State Fair,'' a Broadway musical adapted from Rodgers and Hammerstein's 1945 film.
        Mr. Hammerstein had also returned to producing, investing in two Off Broadway musicals by Joe DiPietro: ''I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change,'' and ''Over the River and Through the Woods.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hammerstein is survived by his brother, William, of Washington, Conn.; two sisters, Alice Hammerstein Mathias of Harrison, N.Y., and Susan Blanchard of New York; three sons, Oscar Andrew, Will and Simon; a daughter, Jennifer, and five grandchildren.
      