
        Jean Guitton, a French Catholic philosopher and author and a friend of popes and French presidents, died on Sunday in Val-de-Grace Hospital in Paris. He was 97 and had homes in Paris and in Bellegarde-en-Marche, France.
        Professor Guitton, a layman, held university professorships in Montpellier and then Dijon. Later he was a professor of the history of philosophy at the Sorbonne. He was named a member of the prestigious French Academy in 1961.
        Le Monde said on Tuesday that Professor Guias ''the last of the great Catholic philosophers.''
        ''Haunted by the confrontation of faith with modern rationalism, he advocated a reconciliatory Christianity and kept company with de Gaulle, the Popes, the Marxists and the agnostics,'' the newspaper said.
        He was admired in France for combining a penetrating intelligence with a powerful faith, and he managed to be friends with the Marxist philosopher Louis Althusser; Francois Mitterrand, France's first Socialist President, and Pope Paul VI, who led the church from 1963 to 1978. On the day Paul VI died, he asked Professor Guitton to read aloud to him from a children's catechism the professor had written that emphasized hope and kindness.
        Professor Guitton was said to be the only layman authorized by the Pope to be an observer at the first session of the Second Vatican Council. A French journalist, Henri Fesquet, observed in November 1962, '' Mr. Guitton is very much at home on the observers' bench since he has long been interested in ecumenical problems.''
        Professor Guitton was a disciple of the French philosopher Henri Bergson (1859-1941), who won the 1927 Nobel Prize for Literature. In Bergson's dualistic philosophy, man's intellect enables him to appraise the world, and his intuition tells him something of the all-pervading life force, or elan vital.
        After imbibing basic religious and ethical principles, Professor Guitton was able to square his Catholic faith with the teachings of science and history in his day. He became an ardent advocate of ecumenism, and embraced the idea of an Englishman, the second Viscount Halifax, of uniting the different churches through what the Viscount called a ''corporate union.''
        As The Independent put it on Tuesday in London, in its obituary of Professor Guitton, he ''regarded himself as a true 'free thinker,' insisting that 'Catholic' meant 'universal.' He believed that all the Church's present troubles, since the Second Vatican Council, were caused by the extinction of the mysterious and mystical aspects of liturgical prayer.''
        Professor Guitton's writings ranged from fiction to criticism to essays and other works and included ''The Spiritual Genius of St. Therese'' (1997).
        He was born in Saint-Etienne, the son of an industrialist. He earned a university degree in philosophy and taught in secondary schools early in his career.
        No immediate family members surrive.
      