
        Vladimir Petrov, who survived six years in a Soviet prison camp and later became a professor of international affairs at George Washington University, died on March 17 in his home in Kensington, Md., a suburb of Washington. He was 83.
        The cause of his death was brain cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Petrov recounted his experiences in the camp and in World War II in two memoirs, ''Soviet Gold'' (1949) and ''My Retreat From Russia'' (1950), which were praised as brisk adventure stories as well as important sources of information about the Soviet labor camps.
        Born in 1915 in what is now Krasnodar, Russia, he was a 19-year-old engineering student in Leningrad when he was arrested and accused of espionage, which he dismissed in his books as having been concocted by a woman in the secret police whose advances he had spurned.
        He was sent to a labor camp in the Kolyma River gold basin in Siberia. There were 500,000 inmates, and one year, he said, as many as 70,000 died.
        He was released in 1941, just before the Nazi invasion, and finagled his way back to Krasnodar. Mr. Petrov's antipathy for the Soviet system led him to join a German-sponsored movement to recruit a Russian force for a last-ditch stand against the advancing Communists. And as the Nazis retreated, so did he.
        He made his way to Austria, where he was imprisoned briefly in a Nazi camp. He escaped after a week, writing that after his experiences in Soviet incarceration, ''it was as easy as breaking out of kindergarten.'' Then he fled to American-occupied Italy.
        In 1947 he moved to the United States, and spent much of the next two decades teaching Slavic languages at Yale. In 1965 he received a doctorate in political science from Yale and joined the Institute for Sino-Soviet Affairs at George Washington University. He retired in 1985.
        Mr. Petrov's marriage to Mirtala Kardinalowska ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Jean; a son from his first marriage, George, of Minneapolis; five daughters from his second marriage -- Susanna Petrov of Boston, Lili Robins of Stafford, Va., Anne Petrov of Paris, Jane Petrov-Aronsohn of Washington and Carol Petrov of Kensington; and three sons from his second marriage -- Vladimir of Los Angeles, Alexander of Rockville, Md., and Andrew, of Kensington, and six grandchildren.
      