
        Lionel Bart, the composer, lyricist and playwright best known for the musical ''Oliver!,'' died on Saturday in Hammersmith Hospital in London, his longtime hometown. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Although Mr. Bart was frustrated in his efforts to repeat his early success with ''Oliver!,'' the play based on Charles Dickens's 1838 novel ''Oliver Twist'' was a huge hit. It was welcomed by theatergoers in London in 1960, on Broadway two years later and in repeated revivals, including one currently running in Birmingham, England.
        Mr. Bart wrote the music, lyrics and book for ''Oliver!'' The show has been applauded for its simple melodies and catchy lyrics; the British critic Benedict Nightingale has called it ''infinitely hummable.''
        Several of the show's songs became popular standards, including ''As Long as He Needs Me'' and ''Consider Yourself.''
        The original London production of ''Oliver!'' ran for 2,618 performances and was one of the most successful musicals in London stage history. Mr. Bart became instrumental in restoring luster to Britain's musical theater in an era when American musicals had won primacy in the West End.
        Upon learning of his death, Lord Lloyd Webber called Mr. Bart ''the father of the modern British musical.''
        ''Oliver!'' was a huge success in the United States. But when it opened in 1963 at the Imperial Theater in New York, Howard Taubman gave it a mixed review in The New York Times, saying parts of it had ''natural sweetness'' and ''style and quality,'' but ''too often it settles for stridency, smoke, easy laughs and facile show-business razzmatazz.''
        Mr. Bart won a Tony Award for the show's music and lyrics.
        ''Oliver!'' was made into a 1968 British film that won Oscars for best picture, director (Carol Reed), art direction and scoring, and in two other categories, along with a special prize for its choreography. In The Times, however, Vincent Canby was less than enthusiastic. He said the Dickens material was ''overwhelmed by this kind of big song-and-dance show,'' and he found that Mr. Bart's songs interrupted the narrative.
        Over the years Mr. Bart also wrote songs for rock and pop singers and he wrote the theme for the 1963 James Bond movie ''From Russia With Love.''
        For a time in the 1960's he had glamorous friends and acquired homes in New York, Malibu, Tangier and elsewhere. But The Sunday Telegraph reported in yesterday's issue that ''following a string of less well-received shows, 'Blitz!' (1962) and 'Maggie May' (1964) and the total failure of 'Twang!' in 1965, he began a decline into alcohol and drug problems, which lasted for much of the 70's and 80's.''
        Also during the 1960's Mr. Bart misguidedly signed away his rights to ''Oliver!'' and other properties, partly to finance ''Twang!''
        In a 1986 interview he said, ''If I hadn't pretended to be such a genius child, I would have paid more attention.'' He filed for bankruptcy in 1972 after a run of bad luck with stage ventures.
        Mr. Bart was the son of an tailor in the blue-collar East End section of London. He studied art on scholarship and worked for a time as a graphic artist.
        He received no formal musical training, but made his way to the top of the stage musical world by the time he was around 30.
        He wrote lyrics for the stage show ''Lock Up Your Daughters,'' which opened in 1959 in London, and he wrote the music and lyrics for the stage show ''Fings Ain't Wot They Used T'Be,'' which opened in 1960 in London and ran for two years.
        He went on to create ''Oliver!,'' but he confessed later that it came close to not being performed. ''Originally, everyone turned it down,'' he recalled. ''They thought it was too morbid or too risky with all those kids and a dog.''
        At his death Mr. Bart, who is survived by two sisters, was working toward reviving ''La Strada,'' his unsuccessful 1960's musical based on the Fellini film.
      