
        Giulio Einaudi, a doctor, author and founder of the Italian publishing house he built into a European wellspring of fine literature, intellectual thought and political theory, died on Monday at his country house near Rome. He was 87.
        A scholarly man, Mr. Einaudi was one of his country's leading publishers on the political left and a leading cultural figure. During his long career he befriended literary and cultural figures throughout Europe. His stable of authors included Carlo Levi, Antonio Gramsci, Cesare Pavese, Natalia Ginzburg, Italo Calvino, Norberto Bobbio and Primo Levi.
        He was born in Turin, the son of Luigi Einaudi, an economist and foe of Fascism who served as President of the Italian Republic from 1947 to 1955. The younger Mr. Einaudi took a degree in medicine and surgery but never practiced.
        In 1933 he founded Giulio Einaudi Editore in Turin, where it still has its headquarters. His first book was a translation of a work about New Deal economics in the United States by Henry A. Wallace. Mussolini, in an article, praised the book but condemned the foreword added by Luigi Einaudi.
        Giulio Einaudi went to jail for 45 days in 1935, an indication that his fledgling publishing house was in trouble for the duration of the Fascist dictatorship. But the company  flourished with the dawning of democracy. It poured out fiction and nonfiction, art books, the classics and translations of American literature. It also was the first to publish Boris Pasternak's novel ''Dr. Zhivago'' in 1957 when it was banned in the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Einaudi, who had spoken against the creation of NATO, scored a coup in 1964 with a long interview with the Soviet Premier, Nikita S. Khrushchev. It was reported worldwide but did not endear the publisher to the political right at home or to official Washington.
        Khrushchev gave Mr. Einaudi permission to publish a collection of his speeches on international affairs and added a foreword in which he called for realism in East-West relations. His call for peaceful coexistence and avoidance of a nuclear catastrophe was one of the early, post-Stalinist glimmers of East-West detente in the midst of a cold war.
        Mr. Einaudi wrote books on literature, history, philosophy, art and science. Among his pastimes were mountaineering and collecting rare books and prints.
        Despite big sales, he voiced concerns as long as 30 years ago about the problems of balancing quantity and quality and the fate of commercial publishing. He admired American university presses as ''a great force,'' saying that the good printing and editing of commercial houses partly derived from what the university presses were doing.
        Like other family publishing houses caught in merger maneuvers, Einaudi eventually was unable to continue alone. In 1994, despite an outcry from Italian writers and intellectuals, its control passed to Mondadori, part of the media empire of Silvio Berlusconi, the right-of-center politician and former Prime Minister.
        Mr. Einaudi remained chairman of the house he had built. In an interview with La Repubblica, the Italian daily, he voiced hope that editorial independence would be maintained. Although a number of Einaudi authors deserted, in recent years there were signs of a revival with a choice list of new authors from the United States, Britain, France, Germany and even Russia.
        Mr. Einaudi's survivors include his wife, Renata Aldrovandi; three sons, Mario, Riccardo and Ludovico,  and a daughter, Giuliana.
      