
        Al Taylor, an artist whose quirky linear sculpture and drawings brought lyricism and charm to the austerities of Process Art, died on March 31 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Debbie Taylor, his only survivor.
        Mr. Taylor was born in Springfield, Mo., and studied painting at the Art Institute in Kansas City, Mo. He also attended the Yale-Norfolk Summer Session in Norfolk, Conn., and the Whitney Museum of American Art Independent Study Program in New York. He moved permanently to New York in 1970, supporting himself by working as an art mover and installer, a set designer's assistant and for eight years as a studio assistant of Robert Rauschenberg.
        For many years he painted, but in 1980 he traveled to Africa and returned without enough money to buy canvas to paint on. Inspired by the way children in Africa fashioned toys out of trash, he began working with materials he found on the street. His first three-dimensional works were spare wall pieces made of broomsticks and thin wood slats that resembled skewed architectural models or functionless farm tools. He resisted calling himself a sculptor, expecting to work his way back to paint on canvas.
        This seemed a distinct possibility in the early 1990's, when he started working with liquids and gravity, creating rivers of paint and ink that seemed to have flowed down terraced planes of clear plastic. But some of his last works were the most sculptural, particularly a series of iron sculptures he made in 1997 in a village in Bavaria with the help of the local blacksmith.
        Mr. Taylor had his first exhibition in New York at the Alfred Kren Gallery in SoHo in 1986 and subsequently exhibited at the Lorence Monk Gallery and at Nolan/Eckman. A retrospective of his work will open at the Kunstmuseum in Lucerne, Switzerland, in July. His work is represented in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
      