
        Edward Tripp, who served as editor in chief at Yale University Press for 13 years, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Franklin, N.C. He was 79.
        Among Mr. Tripp's accomplishments at Yale was the conception of the acclaimed ''Encyclopedia of New York City,'' which was edited by Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University, and published in 1995.
        ''No one with even a passing interest in New York will be able to live without it,'' a reviewer wrote about the book in the The New York Times in 1995. ''In one whopper of a volume about the size of the Manhattan white pages, 'The Encyclopedia of New York City' serves up 4,300 articles by 680 authors, along with tables, lists, charts and 688 illustrations.''
        Dr. Jackson said that Mr. Tripp ''called me up out of the blue and asked me to do an encyclopedia of New York City in 1982, and I had never heard of such an encyclopedia.''
        ''He shepherded it through for the first few years and retired before it was done, but lived long enough to see it finished and shared in the pride,'' Dr. Jackson said.
        In an interview in 1988 in The New York Times about the then-book-in-progress, which was published with the New-York Historical Society, Mr. Tripp said, ''There are books about the city, but if you try to get any comprehensive view about the city of New York, you'll have a very hard time -- there's just no place to go.''
        ''I don't know why no one thought of it before,'' he added. ''I guess New Yorkers are too busy doing other things.''
        Mr. Tripp, who lived in Hamden, Conn., acquired more than 200 books during his years at Yale. Few, if any were as well known, however, as the ''Encyclopedia of New York City.'' Those books included ''The Bonds of Womanhood'' by Nancy F. Cott, ''Origins of Sex'' by Lynn Margulis, ''Vampires, Burial and Death'' by Paul Barber, ''A Handbook of Russian Literature'' by Victor Terras, ''Paganism and the Roman Empire'' by Ramsay MacMullen, ''A Handbook of Clinical Dietetics'' from the American Dietetic Association and ''The Chronicle of the Lodz Ghetto'' by Lucjan Dobroszycki.
        Mr. Tripp was born on March 9, 1920 in National City, Calif., and raised in Whittier, Calif. He attended George Washington University in Washington, Temple University in Philadelphia and Columbia University.
        He spent 20 years working as a social worker in New York City and as a professional violinist before entering the publishing field in 1959 at T.Y. Crowell, a publishing house that is now part of Harper Collins, where he headed the reference department.
        In 1970, along with William Brown, an assistant professor of African history at Yale, Mr. Tripp first approached the black historian Rayford W. Logan to start ''The Dictionary of American Negro Biography,'' which was published in 1983 by W.W. Norton & Co.
        He then joined the Yale University Press in July 1971 as an editor, became editor in chief in 1973 and editor at large in 1986 before retiring in 1990.
        ''He was the most imaginative and wide-ranging editor that I worked with in my 35 years here,'' said John G. Ryden, director of the Yale University Press.
        Mr. Tripp also contributed to numerous articles for Scholarly Publishing, a periodical; a children's book, ''The Tin Fiddle'' (1954), that was illustrated by Maurice Sendak, and ''Crowell's Handbook of Classical Mythology'' (1970).
        He is survived by his wife, Rhoda.
      