
        Graenum Berger, an American who campaigned long and successfully for having Ethiopia's Falashas, who are also called Ethiopian Jews, transported to Israel, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90.
        Mr. Berger, a social worker by profession, worked for years for the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York and was concerned with Jewish community center programs in New York state, in Israel and elsewhere.
        His horror at what he saw as the poverty and bigotry besetting the Falashas in Ethiopia led to his becoming, as The Jerusalem Post said last year, ''unequivocally responsible for a remarkable achievement in recent Jewish history: Fifty thousand Ethiopian Jews were rescued and brought to Israel largely because of Berger's passionate and single-minded advocacy.''
        He founded the American Association for Ethiopian Jews more than a quarter century ago and began his campaigning years before the Falashas' main exoduses took place, in 1984-85 and in 1991. He said in 1993: ''We're not trying to claim credit for ourselves. We brought out about 1,200 ourselves. But when the Israelis and world Jewry decided to take over, they did what we always hoped. They could do the job, dramatically and heroically.''
        On a trip to Israel in 1955, he met a few Ethiopian Jews who were studying there and became fascinated by what has also been called Ethiopia's Jewish tribe. .
        Visiting the Falashas in Ethiopia in 1965, he was dismayed. In a 1998 interview, he recalled having seen ''extreme poverty, the worst in the world, where people earned $65 a year.''
        Convinced the Falashas should go to Israel, he thought American Jewish leaders would want to help. He told them what he had seen. But, he reported in the 1998 interview, ''They didn't care.''
        Nevertheless, Mr. Berger gave lectures about the Falashas to American audiences and became his association's energetic first president. A favorable development followed: in 1975 the Israeli rabbinate gave legal recognition to the Falashas as Jews.
        That validation was important because there were doubts about the Falashas' brand of Judaism. The Encyclopedia Judaica, first published in 1971, said they were an ''ethnic group in Ethiopia which claims to be of Jewish origin and which is attached to a form of the Jewish religion based on the Bible, certain books of the Apocrypha, and other post-biblical Scripture.''
        Despite the rabbinate's validation of the Falashas, as the journal The Jewish Week has put it, ''It was only after Berger went public in calling for Israeli action -- in defiance of pleas to keep the issue secret for fear of jeopardizing the Falashas -- that Jerusalem began to rescue several dozen Ethiopian Jews every few months from the Sudan, where they had fled.''
        Lobbying by Mr. Berger's association continued, aimed at members of Congress as well as Jewish groups. Then, in 1984 and 1985, Operation Moses, a secret, large-scale airlift of Falashas to Israel, was begun -- but was stopped prematurely after Israel officially acknowledged its existence.
        Eventually, in 1991, further thousands of Falashas were airlifted to Israel in Operation Solomon. In 1993, the executive director of Mr. Berger's association, William Recant, said: ''It is our belief that all of the Jews are out of Ethiopia, that any stragglers are free to come and go as they please. There's a 50,000-strong Ethiopian Jewish community in Israel.''
        Born in Gloversville, N.Y., Mr. Berger received a bachelor's degree in 1930 from the University of Missouri and a master's degree in 1932 from the Graduate School of Jewish Social Work, in Manhattan.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Emma Finestein; a son, Col. B. Michael Berger of Vienna, Va.; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      