
        Dr. Donald Elvin Savage, a paleontologist who tracked the evolution of the earliest anthropoid apes, died on  Monday at a hospice in Rossmoor, Calif. He was 81 and had recently moved there from his home in nearby Clayton.
        Much of his work focused on linking mammalian fossils to specific geologic formations, a field known as biostratigraphy.
        Correlating a find at a dig with fossils from other areas accurately dated by geologists was the principal way of establishing the age of fossils before radioisotope dating became more available and reliable. But even now the correlation method is the most reliable way of dating fossils under certain circumstances.
        Dr. Savage spent much of his career as a professor of paleontology at the University of California at Berkeley, becoming a full professor in 1962. He was department chairman from 1966 until 1975 and was in charge of the campus Museum of Paleontology from 1967 to 1971.
        He traveled the world looking for mammalian fossils, concentrating at various times on horses, rhinoceroses and early apes. The result was a compendium of mammals through the ages, ''Mammalian Paleofaunas of the World'' (Addison-Wesley, 1983).
        The book, written with Donald E. Russell, remains in print. At the time of his death, Dr. Savage was completing a second volume on paleofaunas in collaboration with J. Howard Hutchison, another retired Berkeley paleontologist.
        Working with Dr. Russell Ciochon and a team of Burmese scientists in 1978, Dr. Savage found a primate jaw in Burma that is still one of the oldest known fossils of higher primates. It was dated at 40 million to 44 million years old, from the Eocene.
        ''This fossil was the earliest step toward humans,'' said Dr. Ciochon, now chairman of anthropology at the University of Iowa.
        Donald Elvin Savage was born in Floydada, Tex., and graduated from West Texas State College in 1937. He earned an M.S. degree at the University of Oklahoma in 1939 and then spent six years in the Army Air Forces, rising to the rank of major.
        He came to Berkeley as a graduate student and instructor in paleontology in 1946 and received his Ph.D. three years later, when he joined the faculty. He formally retired in 1987 but continued to work in his laboratory as a professor emeritus for 10 more years.
        As acting director and director of the Museum of Paleontology, he oversaw the expansion of its collections and helped make it one of the largest in the country.
        Dr. Savage is survived by his wife, Than Myint Savage; five children from an earlier marriage, Suzanne Savage of Oakland, Calif., Sheryl Long of Gainesville, Fla., Brandon, of San Luis Obispo, Calif., Michael, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Stephanie Edsell of Eugene, Ore.; and 23 grandchildren.
      