
        Ira J. Hechler, a financier and private investor known for friendly corporate buyouts in the 1980's, when hostile takeovers dominated the corporate landscape, died last Sunday at New York Hospital of complications resulting from a heart attack, a family representative said. He was 80.
        During his career, Mr. Hechler was involved in the acquisition of more than 25 companies, including U.S. Banknote, the Leslie Fay Companies, Big Bear Stores and the book publishers New American Library and E. P. Dutton.
        After serving in World War II, Mr. Hechler worked in a series of jobs with mortgage and real estate investment companies, at times in partnership with major investment banks, including Oppenheimer & Company, Merrill Lynch, Bankers Trust and Manufacturers Hanover. He had been a partner in LHW Enterprises, a private investment firm, and established his own company, Ira J. Hechler & Associates, in 1979.
        While working with Oppenheimer in 1979, Mr. Hechler was accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of illegal insider trading. He settled the matter, agreeing to give back $145,260 to shareholders of the company, although he contended he had done nothing wrong.
        Some of his deals were very successful. After doing a leveraged buyout of the Leslie Fay Company, a women's apparel maker, for $55 million in 1982, Mr. Hechler resold the company two years later for $178 million. His profit was reported to be about $15 million, but Leslie Fay's president, John Pomerantz, and two other senior managers saw a $250,000 investment turn into $66 million in cash and notes.
        At the time, Mr. Hechler was known for using an investment strategy called a net operating loss buyout. He used companies with large losses to help shelter the earnings of profitable companies. The practice eventually became known as a leveraged buyout.
        ''He had a fabulous sense of knowing what to do -- the critical moment,'' said Howard Weingrow, a former partner. ''He really loved to close the deal'' and then seek another investment opportunity.
        ''We would sit around and talk about a deal, and Ira would sit there with his eyes closed; you thought that he was asleep,'' Mr. Weingrow said. ''But at a critical juncture he'd wake up and come up with some brilliant idea that would help us close the deal. To this day, I don't know if he was asleep, but apparently he wasn't.''
        Mr. Hechler was also known as a patron of the arts, particularly ballet and Off Broadway theater. He was a longtime patron of the New York City Ballet and the Roundabout Theater. But Mr. Hechler's philanthropy to institutions and individuals was often anonymous.
        In addition to his financial support, Mr. Hechler and his wife, Marilyn, enjoyed attending the theater.
        ''They would go out practically every night to the theater if they could,'' said Susan Mark, who was Mr. Hechler's secretary for almost 20 years.
        Mr. Hechler and his wife recently began sponsoring concerts at the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts at C. W. Post College in Greenvale, N.Y., often inviting as many as 40 friends to attend with them. In February, they sponsored a concert by the Moscow Philharmonic.
        Mr. Hechler was born in the Bronx in 1918 to parents who had emigrated from Eastern Europe. His father was a watchmaker who later became a real estate investor, and his mother was the daughter of a rabbi. He graduated from City College in 1939 and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University.
        Despite his wealth, estimated to be about $100 million, Mr. Hechler lived modestly in Roslyn Heights, N.Y., in a house he bought for $25,750 in 1954 with a G.I. mortgage.
        Mr. Hechler also liked to travel. ''A favorite trip was to the Galapagos Islands, a few years ago,'' his son David said. ''The idea that he could be so close to these animals -- you actually felt that you were in Darwin's world -- that is what excited him. He was a city boy. To actually go someplace and see these animals they way Darwin had actually amazed him.''
        From 1940 to 1943 he worked as a civilian for the Navy, approving payments for contracts. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1943 and later served in the Eighth Air Force as a lead navigator, flying bombing missions over Europe. He received a Distinguished Flying Cross, an Air Medal with five oak leaf clusters and other decorations.
        Mr. Hechler is survived by his wife, the former Marilyn Eisen, of Roslyn Heights; two sons, David, of Larchmont, and Jon, of Manhattan,  and four grandchildren.
      