
        Arthur M. Hettich, a retired senior executive for The New York Times Company's magazine group and a former president of Family Circle magazine, disappeared on Monday while swimming off Grand Turk Island in Turks and Caicos and is presumed drowned, according to his family. He was 73.
        Mr. Hettich's quick climb through the magazine world began in 1967, when he became editor in chief of Family Circle, then owned by Cowles Communications, and soon made it a hit by emphasizing practical, how-to articles for women from all walks of life. Within a year, the magazine's circulation had doubled.
        Just as quickly, Mr. Hettich rose through the ranks of the magazine, becoming editorial director in 1975, senior vice president in 1982 and, in 1985, president of Family Circle, which The New York Times Company bought in 1971.
        In 1988, Mr. Hettich became senior vice president of The New York Times magazine group, which included Golf Digest and Tennis and a number of women's magazines. (The company has since sold most of its magazines, but continues to publish Golf Digest.)
        After his retirement from The Times Company, he continued to work as a consultant, editor and writer.
        Born and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Hettich served in the Navy during World War II. He received a bachelor's degree in English in 1949 from Amherst College and earned a master's degree in English in 1950 from Columbia University.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Hettich was a reporter for The Daily Mirror in New York and an assistant promotion manager for Redbook magazine. In 1957, he started his own publishing company Magabooks.
        From 1960 to 1967, Mr. Hettich worked at Cowles Communications, rising to vice president and director of public relations, before moving to Family Circle.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Elizabeth Fitz Randolph; three children, Michael, of Miami, John, of Katonah, N.Y., and Elizabeth, of Brooklyn; a brother, Robert E. Hettich of Westford, Mass., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 13, 1999, Tuesday  A picture on Sunday with an obituary of Arthur M. Hettich, former editor of Family Circle magazine, was published in error. It showed Thomas C. Redd, former president and publisher of the magazine. Mr. Redd is now retired, in Lake Oswego, Ore.
      