
        Brother John Sellers, a singer known for his raw and earthy rendition of blues, jazz and gospel music, died on March 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 74.
        Mr. Sellers, who suffered from diabetes and high blood pressure, died in his sleep, said a spokeswoman for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, with which Mr. Sellers was long associated.
        Mr. Sellers learned to perform by  watching itinerant singers like Robert Johnson and Blind Lemon Jefferson on the streets of Clarksville, Miss., where he was born. By age 5, he was dancing, singing and playing the tambourine in tent shows put on by the Sanctified church, whose worshipers were known as Holy Rollers.
        Four years later he was discovered by the gospel singer Mahalia Jackson, who took him away from the bordello where he lived after being abandoned by his parents. He went to Chicago, where he lived with Jackson and with relatives of his mother. He began to sing with Jackson, who was becoming famous, and sometimes filled in for her on concert dates. He also attached himself to the blues singer Big Bill Broonzy, with whom he studied informally.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Sellers made two well-received recordings for Vanguard Records' new jazz line, working with musicians like Sonny Terry, Johnny Johns and Jo Jones. In 1958, he went to Europe with Broonzy  to perform and record, and enjoyed a huge success. Not long after, he became a regular at Folk City, a new nightclub in Greenwich Village where singers like Joan Baez, Bob Dylan and Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel got early exposure.
        Mr. Sellers was singing at Folk City one night in 1961 when a young choreographer named Alvin Ailey wandered in, drawn by the sound of his voice. The artists were soon collaborating on Ailey's ''Blues Suite'' and ''Revelations,'' whose scores were arranged by Mr. Sellers and incorporated his music.
        His singing reminded Ailey of his childhood in rural Texas. ''A mans blues -- a solo man -- (maybe Ailey, maybe not),'' the choreographer wrote in a poem called ''John Sellers Sings.''
        Mr. Sellers's last performance with the Ailey company was in 1997. At the time of his death, he was in litigation with the dance company over royalties and the copyright to ''Revelations.''
        Mr. Sellers also performed on Broadway in Langston Hughes's ''Tambourines to Glory.'' During his years with the Ailey company, he continued to sing in Europe and in the Far East, and performed in the late 1950's and 60's in lectures with Studs Terkel, a longtime friend.
        ''Brother John had a light tenor voice that was very strong,'' Mr. Terkel said, adding that ''the sinful and the secular'' could be heard in his singing. ''He was no Mahalia, no Bill Broonzy, but there was a clarity and a sense of urgency. When Brother John sang 'Wading in the Water,' for example, you got the feeling of the young preacher inviting the people into the shallow waters, that they had to do it because if they did, they'd be found, they'd be saved. Brother John had this way of making things come alive.''
        No immediate family members survive.
      