
        Raul Cardinal Silva Henriquez, who led Roman Catholicism in Chile for more than two decades, championing human rights and sharply criticizing Gen. Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship, died on Friday in a home for retired priests in Santiago, Chile. He was 91.
        The cause was a heart attack, church officials said.
        Cardinal Silva Henriquez became Bishop of Chile's great Pacific port, Valparaiso, in 1959 and Archbishop of Santiago, the country's capital and largest city, in 1961. He was elevated to the rank of Cardinal by Pope John XXIII in 1962.
        By 1963 the Cardinal had become one of the foremost figures of Latin America in campaigning for immediate sweeping reforms to improve the lives of the masses. He retired from his episcopal duties in 1983.
        General Pinochet overthrew Chile's elected President, Salvador Allende, a Socialist, in a coup in 1973 and held power as the country's President and dictator until 1990, after he lost a plebiscite. He was succeeded as President by Patricio Aylwin, a Christian Democrat.
        Under Cardinal Silva Henriquez, the Chilean church made demands during the Pinochet years for the return of democracy. When the Cardinal preached about the sacredness of human rights, worshipers frequently cried out: ''Raul! Our friend, the people are with you!''
        Despite death threats and other would-be intimidations, the Cardinal also helped gather documentation about human rights abuses, including torture, during the Pinochet era. And he sponsored efforts to help people who had lost their jobs because of political persecution to get new ones. He also sponsored legal assistance for political prisoners.
        When an organization that the Cardinal had set up to alleviate the sufferings of victims of repression was broken up by the Pinochet Government, he founded a successor group that managed to carry out similar activities.
        At a dinner in his home in 1985, he looked back on his attempts from 1973 to 1983 to deter the Pinochet Government from its use of terror.
        A guest at the dinner, the Rev. Robert F. Drinan, a professor of law at Georgetown University and a former United States Congressman, wrote later that that the Cardinal had ''concluded by saying that the Government's oppression of the church is as bad as persecution of the church in the Roman Empire in the early centuries of Christianity.''
        ''Chile is harassing the church because, almost alone among social institutions, it represents the tortured, the exiled, the unemployed and the poor,'' Father Drinan wrote.
        The Cardinal also played an important role in forestalling a war in 1978 between Chile and its neighbor, Argentina. He is credited with persuading both Governments to consent to mediation of a border dispute by Pope John Paul II.
        Cardinal Silva Henriquez was born in Talca in central Chile, received a law degree from Catholic University in Santiago and was ordained a priest in 1938. From 1939 to 1959 he held a succession of educational posts, and from 1951 to 1959 he concurrently headed a charitable organization.
      