
        Leon M. Goldstein, the gentle, genial, politically savvy president of Kingsborough Community College of the City University of New York and a leading candidate for New York City schools chancellor in 1995, died in his sleep Friday night at his home in Manhattan, a CUNY spokesman said. He was 66.
        The spokesman said he did not know the cause of death.
        Mr. Goldstein's skill in building a political base for Kingsborough in New York City and beyond and his willingness to seek efficiency for CUNY at a time of economic belt-tightening, brought him to the attention of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
        In 1995, the Mayor endorsed him as his candidate for Schools Chancellor, and over the opposition of the board president, Carol A. Gresser, put together a majority of the school board to support him. But in the face of questions about whether he had dispensed political patronage and about his willingness to be forthcoming about his own resume, Mr. Goldstein withdrew his candidacy.
        He was later cleared of the patronage charges by the Brooklyn District Attorney's office. A separate CUNY investigation cleared him of wrongdoing, except for one ''minor'' transgression in which he used college stationery to support a Brighton Beach real estate development.
        In an interview last year, he said he was disappointed that he was forced to withdraw because of the charges. ''My time would have been spent responding to the allegations.''
        But, he said, his time at Kingsborough had been productive.
        Just last month, Mr. Goldstein sent CUNY a letter saying he planned to retire as president of Kingsborough in September.
        Born in Borough Park, Brooklyn, the son of immigrants from Poland, Mr. Goldstein stayed close to his roots. He attended two CUNY schools -- City College and Brooklyn College -- for his bachelor's and master's degrees, and was involved in CUNY's administration, as Dean for Community Colleges and as Deputy Chancellor and Acting Chancellor between 1981 and 1983.
        Amid budget cutbacks in 1992, Mr. Goldstein took on the unenviable task of leading a committee of CUNY presidents and faculty in recommending ways to improve academic planning. The resulting report, which called for colleges to cut programs that duplicated those on other CUNY campuses, drew a hail of protest from faculty members and other CUNY officials. Although most of the report's specific suggestions were not adopted, campuses like Baruch embraced some of its principles.
        Mr. Goldstein's strong administrative skills and his wide political connections made him a natural choice as a possible candidate for other offices. But his primary career was at Kingsborough, which he built from a tiny college parked in a collection of merchant marine barracks into an innovative and successful institution housed in a sparkling complex on 72 acres nestled between Jamaica and Sheepshead Bays.
        ''He was the Robert Moses of CUNY,'' said Jay Hershenson,  CUNY's vice chancellor for university relations.
        Kingsborough offered the usual programs in liberal arts, nursing, secretarial skills and business, but it also offered a program in marine technology, replete with a former Coast Guard cutter outfitted to conduct research and an aquarium with small sharks and other fish.
        Mr. Goldstein also developed programs for a wide range of students, from 5- and 6-year-olds who attended a special summer program to teen-agers who attended the college's High School for the Sciences to a core of about 800 elderly students who took tuition-free classes. His ''College Now'' program, which offered college preparatory classes to high school seniors who could not pass CUNY's placement tests, is now taught in 25 high schools and is being expanded throughout the CUNY system with backing from Albany.
        Mr. Goldstein drew support and financing for Kingsborough through his active involvement in Brooklyn political and educational circles. He was close to Brooklyn Borough President Howard Golden and to William C. Thompson Jr., the former deputy borough president and now president of the school board.
        In the last year, even as he defended the need for remedial classes for students, Mr. Goldstein would not criticize Mayor Giuliani for his denunciations of CUNY and its remedial programs. The Mayor will speak at Mr. Goldstein's funeral this afternoon, his office said.
        Mr. Goldstein is survived by his wife, Mary De Piano Rothlein; a son, Michael, of New York City; a daughter, Lisa Miller of Mahwah, N.J., and two sisters, Toby Alden of Brooklyn and Marilyn Alsofrom of Royal Palm, Fla.
      