
        James D. McCawley, an internationally renowned linguist who sought wherever possible to combine in his work his three consuming passions -- language, music and ethnic food -- died on Saturday after collapsing on the campus of the University of Chicago, where he had taught for more than three decades. He was 61 and lived in Chicago.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, university officials said.
        Dr. McCawley helped instigate the first big ideological rift in modern linguistics. Until 1957 the field had been defined by Chomskyan generative grammar, a theory that focuses almost exclusively on syntax, or the rules of sentence formation. In the late 1960's, Dr. McCawley and several young colleagues developed a new theory called generative semantics, which held that the study of grammar must necessarily involve the study of logic and meaning as well. Originally conceived as an extension of Noam Chomsky's work, generative semantics was regarded by many hard-line Chomskyan linguists, including Dr. Chomsky himself, as a theoretical slap in the face.
        In addition to writing scores of technical publications, Dr. McCawley, the Andrew MacLeish Distinguished Service Professor of Linguistics and East Asian Languages, was the author of ''The Eater's Guide to Chinese Characters'' (1984), which helped Western diners avoid the embarrassing necessity, as Calvin Trillin once wrote, of carrying a wallet card in Chinese that read, ''Please bring me some of what that man at the next table is having.''
        Dr. McCawley was a rumpled bear of a man, with a bristling black mustache and chin-length dark hair; his  sartorial style ran to corduroy jackets with threads sprouting from the hems. His speech was a deeply idiosyncratic amalgam of Scotland, where he was born, and Chicago, where he grew up, further complicated by a residual trace of the stammer that had plagued him when he was young.
        He possessed a rigorous yet playful intellect, a prodigious memory and a host of artistic talents, colleagues recalled. ''In my entire 30 years of association with him, I rarely told him anything he didn't know,'' said the linguist Jerrold Sadock, also at the University of Chicago. ''He had thought about everything and he knew everything.''
        Dr. McCawley might think, on any given day, about East Indian writing systems, Japanese phonology, Korean gastronomy, Spanish soap operas, microtonal music, mathematics, logic and libertarianism. Name any city in the world and he would direct you to the best Chinese restaurant there. He was a first-rate Chinese cook -- his pigs' ears in garlic sauce remains etched in colleagues' memories -- and an enthusiastic host. He sang, played the piano, harpsichord, guitar and clarinet and composed a bit. He spoke Spanish, French, German, Yiddish, Dutch, Russian, Mandarin Chinese, Hungarian, Japanese, Swedish and Portuguese.
        He was preternaturally unphysical and did not know how to drive a car.
        ''There are tie-ins between linguistics and virtually everything,'' Dr. McCawley said in an interview last year. ''It's an excuse for me to be a perpetual student.''
        James David McCawley was born in Glasgow on March 30, 1938, immigrating with his family to Chicago when he was 7. He studied mathematics, ''for no particularly good reason,'' as he later recalled, earning a master's degree (and a de facto bachelor's) from the University of Chicago in 1958. Having always enjoyed foreign languages, he found his way into the first doctoral class of the newly formed linguistics department at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where his teachers included Dr. Chomsky. He received  his Ph.D. in 1965.
        Dr. McCawley, who had joined the faculty of the University of Chicago the previous year, was famous for his parties, which included annual celebrations of Bastille Day (guests had to bring a dish from a country liberated from French domination; you could cheat and bring a six-pack of Stroh's, brewed in Detroit), and a celebration of Hongul Day, which commemorated the creation of the Korean alphabet.
        Dr. McCawley's generosity also took more intimate forms. The linguist John Goldsmith, a Chicago colleague, recalled: ''He was singing Yiddish folk songs with a student from Uruguay, who said all her Yiddish folk song books had been confiscated by the police. The next day she found two Yiddish folk song books in her mailbox.''
        Dr. McCawley's marriage to the linguist Noriko Akatsuka ended in divorce; he is survived by his sisters, Caroline Podvin, of Monee, Ill., and Monica Cox, of Culver, Ind.
        Among his honors were the presidency of the Linguistic Society of America in 1996 and election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1983. His books included ''Adverbs, Vowels and Other Objects of Wonder'' (1979), ''Everything That Linguists Have Always Wanted to Know About Logic (but Were Ashamed to Ask)'' (1981) and ''Thirty Million Theories of Grammar'' (1982).
        ''Languages are weird and wonderful things,'' Dr. McCawley said last year. ''As long as you are perceptive enough there is plenty to keep you happy and busy.''
        Correction:  April 16, 1999, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the linguist James D. McCawley described the evolution of linguistics scholarship incorrectly. It was from 1957 until the late 60's, not before 1957, that the field was defined by Chomskyan generative grammar, a theory that focuses almost exclusively on syntax, or the rules of sentence formation.
      