
        Thornton A. Wilson, a former chairman and chief executive of the Boeing Company, died on Saturday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78.
        Mr. Wilson died in his sleep and was found by members of his family, said Peter B. Conte, a spokesman for Boeing. The cause of death remains unknown, he added.
        Mr. Wilson, nicknamed T, retired in 1987 after 42 years with Boeing. He was best known for developing and producing the Boeing 757 and 767 jetliners. He was also remembered for guiding the company through a painful reorganization in the late 60's and early 70's, laying off 60,000 workers during what became known as the Boeing Bust.
        The job cuts, which came in the wake of slow aircraft sales and Congress's cancellation of the supersonic-transport, or SST, program, devastated the Seattle area, where Boeing is based. But the company was slowly revived over the next two decades; it now employs 218,000 people worldwide, including about 90,000 in the Seattle area.
        Mr. Wilson was born in Sikeston, Mo., on Feb. 8, 1921, and graduated from Iowa State University in 1943 with a degree in aeronautical engineering. He joined Boeing that year, leaving briefly for a teaching assignment and advanced study at Iowa State and a year at California Institute of Technology, where he earned a master's degree in aeronautical engineering in 1948.
        He also became overall project engineer of the B-52 bomber program during the latter stages of its design and then led the proposal team that won the contract for the Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missile.
        Mr. Wilson was elected vice president of Boeing in 1963 and in 1964 was placed in charge of operations and planning for its corporate headquarters.
        Two years later, he was named executive vice president. He became company president in 1968 and chief executive a year later. He remained in that position until 1983. He became chairman of the board in 1972 and stayed in that post until 1987. He became chairman emeritus and continued to serve as a member of the board until April 1993.
        A close friend, Dean D. Thornton, described Mr. Wilson as unpretentious, decisive and clearly in charge.
        ''He could make the hard decisions,'' said Mr. Thornton, who worked as president of the Boeing commercial airplane group and an executive vice president of the Boeing Company in the late 80's and early 90's. ''You never had much question about who was the boss.''
        Mr. Wilson received numerous awards and honors during his career, and, in 1983, he was inducted into the National Aviation Hall of Fame for his engineering and managerial accomplishments with Boeing. And in 1987, the Museum of Flight in Seattle named a new 143,000-square-foot gallery after Mr. Wilson.
        Mr. Wilson is survived by his wife, Grace, and three children, Thornton A. Wilson 3d of Seattle, Daniel A. Wilson of Newcastle, Wash., and Sarah W. Parkinson of Enumclaw, Wash., and six grandchildren.
      