
        Bill Wendell, a radio and television announcer whose crisp authoritative voice provided an ironic foil to entertainers from Ernie Kovacs to David Letterman, died yesterday at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75.
        The cause of death was complications from cancer, said one of his daughters, Francette Nunziata.
        Until his retirement in 1995, Mr. Wenzel was most recently known for the off-stage introduction of guests at the beginning of Mr. Letterman's show at NBC and later CBS. The introductions typically began with a municipal characterization like, ''From New York, mountain fortress of the ancient Incas, it's 'Late Night With David Letterman . . .' ''
        But Mr. Wendell also worked with Bob Hope, Dave Garroway, Jack Paar, Merv Griffin, Gary Moore, Alan King, Tom Snyder, Billy Crystal and Jerry Seinfeld. But what brought him the earliest and widest attention was his work in the 1950's as the on-air sidekick for Ernie Kovacs, Mrs. Nunziata said.
        ''They were always playing practical jokes on each other,'' his daughter recalled. ''One time Ernie was supposed to gulp a big martini, but it was supposed to be filled with water, only it was really filled with vodka. He spit it out and started coughing like crazy on live national television. Dad and his cronies were laughing their heads off.''
        Mr. Wendell was born William Joseph Wenzel, Jr. on March 22, 1924, in New York City to William J. Wenzel , a beverage distributor and an owner of several Manhattan fruit stands, and Mildred S. Wenzel, a housewife.  After serving in the United States Army Air Corps in World War II, he worked in radio and early television. He had taken the professional name of Wendell ''because he wanted to give his family some privacy and maybe a German name at that time wasn't that popular,'' Mrs. Nunziata said.
        Mr. Wendell then went on to work as a staff radio and television announcer for NBC, on call for network promotions, special news bulletins and network identifications.
        In addition to his daughter Mrs. Nunziata of Pelham Manor, N.Y., Mr. Wendell is survived by his wife,  Anne Wenzel; two other daughters,  Anne Wenzel Markgraf of Burbank, California, and Elizabeth Hansbury  of White Plains; two sons, William J. Wenzel 3d of Southport, Conn., and Richard Eustace Wenzel of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and 14 grandchildren.
      