
        Dr. Robert Flint Chandler Jr., a retired agronomist with the Rockefeller Foundation and a leader in the fight against hunger in Asia, died on March 23 at Waterman Hospital in Eustis, Fla. He was 91 and lived in nearby Mount Dora.
        Dr. Chandler joined the foundation staff in 1954 and soon afterward received worldwide recognition as a field commander in the ''Green Revolution'' that helped to feed populations in poor countries.
        That agricultural initiative led to the development of the first high-yield grains and earned Dr. Norman E. Borlaug, a plant breeder and head of the celebrated Mexican wheat team, the 1970 Nobel Peace Prize. Dr. Chandler was posted to the Philippines to take charge of a similar project there.
        From 1959 to 1972, he directed the new International Rice Research Institute in Manila, sponsored by the Rockefeller Foundation. The institute developed more than two dozen varieties of rice and devised methods for farmers to grow them. The objective was richer harvests to keep up with population growth, and its success had rice-exporting countries like Thailand concerned about a possible glut of the rice market.
        Dr. Chandler moved on to Taiwan, where he led the Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center until 1975. Later he was an international consultant and wrote two books to add to the numerous articles he published, ''Rice in the Tropics: A Guide to National Development'' (Westview, 1979) and ''An Adventure in Applied Science: The Early History of the International Rice Research Institute,'' published by the institute in 1982.
        Before he became the institute's founding director, Dr. Chandler had a distinguished career in academia. A native of Columbus, Ohio, he graduated with a degree in horticulture from the University of Maine in 1929 and received a Ph.D. in pomology, the science of fruit cultivation, from the University of Maryland in 1934.
        He taught about forest soils at Cornell University and rose to the rank of professor. From 1947 until 1954 he was dean of the University of New Hampshire College of Agriculture and then president of the university.
        Dr. Chandler was decorated by the Governments of the Philippines, Indonesia, India, Pakistan and Kenya and received the World Food Prize in 1988 and the Presidential End Hunger Award in 1986. He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Chandler is survived by his wife, Sunny; two sons, David, of Goodyear, Ariz., and Ralph, of Rochester, N.H.; a daughter, Sara, of Lewiston, Me.; two sisters, Audrey Woodman, of Kittery Point, Me., and Esther Chandler, of Hull, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
      