
        Hyman R. Faine, a former executive of a union that represents performing artists, died last Thursday at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 88, and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Tom Tugend, a friend.
        Mr. Faine, who spent much of his career in New York, was the national executive secretary -- in effect, the chief executive -- of the American Guild of Musical Artists from 1945 to 1971.
        During his term, the union came to represent employees of the Metropolitan Opera and of opera organizations in Chicago, Houston and San Francisco.
        The union, which had 2,000 members in 1950, now has more than 5,000. In opera, the union represents soloists, dancers, chorus members, stage managers, stage directors and choreographers. Outside of the opera world, it also represents dancers and classical concert singers.
        After Mr. Faine moved to California, he also taught arts administration. In 1970, while he was still working for the union, he became a Regents' professor and acting chairman of the arts administration program of the University of California in Los Angeles. He remained a professor there for most of the 70's.
        In an interview in 1989 about fund-raising for the arts, Mr. Faine, who was then adjunct professor of arts management at U.C.L.A., said, ''If the public has been sold the idea that they're getting education when they pay for art, and then it doesn't work out that way, they will resent it and won't listen to your next appeal.''
        Long before moving to California, Mr. Faine's influence was such that in 1953 he played a key role in salary negotiations between the Metropolitan Opera and another union, Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians, representing members of the Met Orchestra.
        After an eight-day deadlock, a settlement was reached on a two-year agreement giving the musicians a pay increase of 3 per cent -- 1 per cent more than the Metropolitan had offered.
        The Metropolitan's president, Lowell Wadmond, declared at the time, ''The Metropolitan is grateful to John Brownlee, president, and Hyman Faine, executive secretary of A.G.M.A., whose efforts contributed greatly to settlement of a dispute which threatened to close the opera.''
        Mr. Faine was born near Kiev in Ukraine, then part of Russia. He came to the United States with his family when he was 10 and grew up mainly on Manhattan's Lower East Side.
        He graduated from City College in 1933 and in 1937 from Harvard Law School, and practiced law until he entered the Army during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife of almost 60 years, the former Ruth Godes; two daughters, Robin Faine of Brooklyn and Judith Gold, who lives on a kibbutz in Israel, and five grandchildren.
      