
        Jack H. McDonald, a former chairman and chief executive of the Imperial Corporation of America, a savings and loan company that long after his retirement fell victim to the nation's savings and loan crisis, died March 19 at Sharps Memorial Hospital in San Diego from complications of Parkinson's disease, leukemia and pneumonia, his wife, Loraine, said. He was 88.
        During his tenure, Imperial became one of the largest savings and loan companies in the country, with about 125 offices stretching from California's border with Mexico into the Midwest.
        However, about 15 years after Mr. McDonald retired as chairman of the company he had helped build, it was seized by Federal regulators, and its branches were sold.
        James Schmidt, former president of the San Diego Savings and Loan Association and a longtime competitor of Mr. McDonald, said that under Mr. McDonald's reign, Imperial ''was very successful.'' He added, ''They didn't have any asset problems when he was in charge.''
        Nevertheless, Mr. McDonald clearly felt the sting. ''A main part of your life work, and you have nothing to show for it,'' he was quoted as saying at the time. ''It's all gone.''
        Before its demise, Imperial was known as an industry innovator. It went public in the 1960's, before many other savings and loan associations. It was also one of the first California savings and loan associations with a statewide branch network and helped establish San Diego as a banking center before it was overtaken by San Francisco and Los Angeles. But straying from the savings industry's staple of home morgtage loans, Imperial got into trouble in the 1980's after its investments in high-yield junk bonds collapsed, and its auto loans soured.
        A native of Pratt, Kan., who grew up in Orange County, Calif., Mr. McDonald graduated from the University of Kansas in 1933 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics. He began working for Home Savings and Loan in Fredonia, Kan.
        During World War II, he was in the Navy from 1942 to 1945, serving with amphibious forces in North Africa, Sicily, Italy and southern France. He received two battle stars. After his discharge with the rank of lieutenant commander, Mr. McDonald joined Investors Savings and Loan, in Pasadena, Calif. Later, as president of Investors, he converted the company from a mutual to a stock company and became its chairman. When Investors was aquired by Imperial Savings of San Diego in 1961, he became vice president of Imperial. He became president in 1964, chief executive in 1965 and chairman in 1972.
        At his retirement in 1975, Imperial was one of the largest savings and loan corporations in the country and the first to trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
        After his retirement, Mr. McDonald remained active in finance, as well as in civic organizations. In 1976, he was named director of the Central City Development Corporation, a new development agency for downtown San Diego, and served an eight-year term. He was also director of the Children's Hospital, and a member of the board of overseers of the University of California, San Diego.
        Mr. McDonald is survived by his wife, the former Loraine Cameron; four daughters, Sandra Jahiel of Brazil; Sara Pagoulatos of Fresno, Calif.; Sally Bellerue of Westlake Village, Calif., and Lisa Loraine Chappel of Los Angeles; a son, William, of Westport, Conn.; 13 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      