
        Ntsu Mokhehle, who introduced the former British protectorate of Lesotho to modern politics, died on Wednesday after falling ill during his 80th birthday party.
        He became sick on Dec. 26 and died in a hospital in Bloemfontein, South Africa, The Associated Press reported.
        The fractious Mr. Mokhehle was one of those responsible for continuing political strife in tiny Lesotho, where several parties, army factions and the royal family all competed for power in periodic coups and army mutinies.
        He bears some responsibility for the standoff that led to invasion by South Africa in September, during which rioting destroyed much of the capital, Maseru.
        Mr. Mokhehle (pronounced mo-KAY-shlay), who was Prime Minister from 1993 until last year, founded the Basutoland Congress Party in 1952 and championed the cause of independence from Britain.
        Lesotho (pronounced leh-SOO-too), traces its history to King Moshoeshoe I, who in 1824 allowed tribes fleeing Zulu expansionism to settle on his high plateaus if they helped defend them.
        From the 1830's on, hurling boulders down from his mountaintop fortress, he fought off land-seeking Boer invaders until he saved his remaining territory only by persuading the British Crown to make it a protectorate in 1868.
        Lesotho, a kingdom of two million encircled by South Africa, gained independence in 1966. Mr. Mokhehle, who won election in 1960 as head of the Basutoland Congress Party, would have been its first ruler but he was repeatedly thwarted by the Basutoland National Party, led by Chief Leabua Jonathan, a canny puppet of apartheid South Africa. Chief Jonathan's unpopularity grew as he took away the few powers granted to the Oxford-trained King Moshoeshoe II, crushed dissent and tolerated corruption.
        From exile in Botswana, Mr. Mokhehle directed a guerrilla campaign that filtered Libya-trained assassins in by way of the Johannesburg mine workers' hostels, where many Sotho men lived.
        The Lesotho Government responded with its own terror campaign, using a police unit armed by South Africa. Chief Jonathan, after flirting with Havana and Moscow, was deposed by the army in 1986.
        Transition to black majority rule in South Africa changed the pressures on Lesotho, and elections in 1993 brought Mr. Mokhehle to power.
        In 1997, in a new power struggle, he led his loyalists in Parliament out of the governing party to found a new one, the Lesotho Congress for Democracy, and called for new elections. His name, Ntsu, means ''eagle,'' and voters signaled that they supported him by flapping their arms like wings.
        The party won overwhelmingly last year, but the opposition cried fraud. Their protests spread to the army, prompting South Africa to invade to forestall another coup.
        Mr. Mokhehle was a colorful conversationalist who did not like to be interrupted while he was answering questions with lectures on African history and politics. A radio journalist who interviewed him said this week that he ''never uttered a sentence that was less than two minutes long.''
      