
        Nicola Trussardi, who diversified and expanded his family's small-town glove business into a multimillion-dollar fashion house, died on Wednesday in Milan of injuries suffered in an automobile accident. He was 56.
        Mr. Trussardi died after undergoing brain surgery for injuries he received when he lost control of his car driving from Milan to his home in Bergamo on Monday night.
        A charismatic entrepreneur, Mr. Trussardi took the company founded by his grandfather, Dante Trussardi, in Bergamo in 1910, and extended its limited but respected reputation for quality leather gloves into an internationally known manufacturer and retailer of men's, women's and children's ready-to-wear clothing, accessories and jewelry.
        He was also a former vice president of the National Chamber of Fashion of Italy.
        Mr. Trussardi was born in Bergamo in 1942 and graduated from the University of Milan with a degree in economics in 1968. He joined the family company in 1971 after the death of his older brother, Dante, and took control in the late 1970's after the death of his father, Giordano.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria Luisa, and four children, Beatrice Trussardi of New York and Francesco, Gaia and Tommaso Trussardi of Bergamo.
        Mr. Trussardi developed innovative procedures for tanning and finishing leather and expanded its use to wallets, shoes, belts and luggage and, soon after, leather clothes.
        His first pret-a-porter collection in 1983 was shown in the La Scala Opera House foyer, and subsequent collection presentations also combined fashion and cultural institutions. The greyhound was chosen as the company logo.
        The Trussardi Laboratory was established as the umbrella for the company's fashion design and the Trussardi Research Center for the development of products like perfume, china, carpets and objects.
        The company, with more than 100 boutiques around the world and seven stores selling clothes and accessories designed for young urban customers, had sales of almost $500 million last year.
        Mr. Trussardi's latest project, on which he had worked for some years, was Citta della Moda, a ''fashion town'' that he proposed for Milan. The project, which a spokesman for the company said would proceed, is to include fashion schools, space for shows, a hotel for fashion visitors and other institutions that would centralize the industry.
      