
        Dr. Robert G. Sachs, a theoretical physicist who once served as director of the Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago, died on Wednesday at the University of Chicago Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was complications from surgery, the university said.
        Dr. Sachs was known for playing an important role in his field both as administrator and policy maker, and as a theorist who, especially in later years, tried to explain some of the more mystifying behavior of subatomic particles.
        In 1946 and 1947, he helped to create Argonne, a research laboratory owned by the Government and managed by the University of Chicago. He was a director at the university's Metallurgical Laboratory, which in 1942 created the first controlled nuclear chain reaction.
        Later, as associate director of Argonne from 1964 to 1968, Dr. Sachs helped determine which scientists would be able to make use of the lab's new particle accelerator, the zero gradient synchotron.
        Dr. Sachs returned to teaching in 1968. Although his early work had been in nuclear physics -- his 1953 book, ''Nuclear Theory,'' was considered a standard text for years -- he later devoted himself to the study of particle physics.
        He was especially interested in developing theories about the asymmetry between matter and antimatter in the universe, and the physics of what scientists refer to as ''time reversal.'' In that field, the behavior of subatomic particles is examined for clues to, among other things, the nature of time.
        Scientists who study time reversal often use the example of two billiard balls on a table to explain their theories. If a film is made of the balls colliding, they note, a viewer would see nothing amiss if it was shown to them running backward: the same physical laws seem to apply, in other words, whichever direction time is running.
        But scientists have known for more than three decades that with certain particles, the rules appear different. It is as if two and two were added together to make four, but when two was then subtracted from the sum, the result was not the expected.
        ''One would like to have a theory of elementary particles that essentially explains everything that they do,'' said Roger Hildebrand, a physicist who worked with Dr. Sachs for decades. ''We come very close to that. But there are some things that just don't work.''
        Dr. Sachs's last book, published in 1987 by the University of Chicago Press, was ''The Physics of Time Reversal.''
        He was also credited with creating a new division at the American Physical Society, the principal professional society for physicists, for scientists studying particles and fields.
        Robert Green Sachs was born on May 4, 1916, in Hagerstown, Md. He received his doctorate in 1939 from Johns Hopkins University and began teaching. Among his students was Hyman G. Rickover, who later established the Navy's nuclear submarine program. After teaching for three years, Dr. Sachs joined the Ballistic Research Laboratory at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland.
        Dr. Sachs was hired by the University of Chicago in 1964, and directed the Argonne lab from 1973 to 1979. He was also director of the university's Enrico Fermi Institute from 1968 to 1973, and from 1983 to 1986, when he became professor emeritus.
        Colleagues said that Dr. Sachs, who was also a dedicated sailor, remained active in his field until his death.
        Dr. Sachs is survived by his wife, Carolyn L. Sachs, of Chicago; three daughters, Judith Crow, of Portola Valley, Calif., Rebecca Norris, of Maynard, Mass., and Jennifer Sachs, of New York; two sons, Joel, of Arlington, Mass., and Jeffrey, of Sunnyvale, Calif.; three stepchildren, Jacqueline Wolf, of West Newton, Mass., Kate Wolf, of Lincoln, Mass., and Thomas Wolf, of Brookline, Mass.; and 14 grandchildren.
      