
        Tom Patten, a British marine scientist and offshore engineer who played a key role in unlocking the gas and oil deposits beneath the North Sea, died on April 10 at a hospital in Edinburgh, where he lived. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In the early 1960's, Dr. Patten realized that there was wealth buried deep below the North Sea's rough surface. At the time, he was a senior lecturer in mechanical sciences at the University of Edinburgh.
        Legislation was pending in Britain to deal with the traces of gas that had previously been spotted. Dr. Patten was among the first to recognize the huge potential looming behind those traces, and he resolutely followed up on his conclusion.
        He traveled the world, to Houston and wherever else he found oilmen who knew how to pump the black gold from the earth's crust. And for the next three decades his engineering expertise made him an important figure in the exploration and production of oil and gas from the drilling platforms that rose above those storm-swept waters in northern Europe.
        Dr. Patten moved easily between academic and business lives. He retired in 1982 as head of the mechanical engineering department and professor emeritus of the Institute of Offshore Engineering at Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh.
        He became a private consultant for industry and government, and at his death was chairman of Marine Technology Directorate Ltd. One of his interests was the security of oil rigs, on which he advised Britain's Defense Ministry.
        Dr. Patten was born in Ford, Northumberland, near the Scottish border and just 50 miles southeast of Edinburgh. He graduated from the University of Edinburgh, where he also earned a doctorate in engineering.
        He returned there in 1950 after military service in Palestine and Greece to lecture in the engineering department. In 1972, he accepted an appointment at Heriot-Watt, a leading British engineering school and center of North Sea studies in Edinburgh.
        He contributed many technical and scientific papers in the field of heat transfer. He was a past president of the British Institute of Mechanical Engineering and a Fellow of the Royal Society in Edinburgh. Among many other honors, he was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1981.
        Dr. Patten is survived by his wife of 49 years, Jacquelin McLachlan Patten; a son, Colin, of Edinburgh; two daughters, Diane Meyjes of Aberdeen, Scotland, and Gail Patten of Edinburgh; a sister, Nora Lavoie of Quebec, and four grandchildren.
      