
        William Henry Dial, a lawyer, banker and civic leader in Florida who helped reinvent Orlando, a little town of citrus groves, as a vacation and convention mecca known the world over, died on March 23 at his home in Orlando. He was 91.
        Mr. Dial played a pivotal part in the 1960's in helping the Walt Disney Company assemble thousands of acres of land near Orlando, quietly and at low cost, for what became Disney World. He also pushed successfully to have the Florida Turnpike routed through Orlando so that tourists might converge on the new attraction. And he helped persuade the Martin Company, now Lockheed Martin, to build a large plant in Orlando in the late 1950's.
        Mr. Dial was born in Lake City, Fla. He worked his way through college and law school selling men's suits. He received his law degree from the University of Florida in 1932 and settled in Orlando to practice. Most recently he was of counsel to the firm of Akerman, Senterfitt & Eidson.
        But it was his contributions as a banker that established his reputation in his community and central Florida. Early in his career he started doing legal work for the First National Bank of Orlando; then, he stopped active practice to become its executive vice president in 1958 and president in 1961.
        He guided First National through a period of robust growth as it turned itself into Sun Banks Inc., one of the region's largest financial institutions. He served as board chairman and then chairman of the executive committee from 1967 until 1977.
        Now known as Suntrust Banks of Florida, it became a subsidiary of the Atlanta-based Suntrust Banks Inc., one of the biggest banking companies in the country. After he left banking, Mr. Dial returned to his law firm. He retired about eight years ago.
        He was the author of two books, ''Florida Banking Code'' and ''History of the Banking Laws of Florida,'' both published in 1953. He was a past chairman of the United Appeal of Orange County and a deacon in the Presbyterian Church.
        Mr. Dial's wife, Grace Franklin Dial, died in 1991. The Dials were married 56 years. Mr. Dial is survived by two daughters, Joan D. Ruffier and Patricia D. Vig, both of Orlando; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      