
        Abdel-Latif Baghdadi, an energetic Egyptian Air Force officer who helped Gamal Abdel Nasser oust Egypt's last sovereign, King Farouk, in 1952 and then held key posts in Nasser's Government, died late Friday. He was 81.
        He was hospitalized on Friday for complications from liver cancer, said The Associated Press, which reported his death on Saturday. It was not immediately reported where he died or where he resided at the time of his death.
        Mr. Baghdadi, who rose to the rank of Wing Commander in the air force,  worked closely with Nasser, an Egyptian Army officer who headed the Free Officers movement that overthrew King Farouk. Nasser held power through the 12-member Revolutionary Command Council.
        Mr. Baghdadi, known as a hard worker who got things done quickly, was a leading member of the council and was long believed to be next to Nasser in authority.
        The French author Jean Lacouture once called Mr. Baghdadi ''a robust manager'' who lacked ''stature comparable to Nasser's.''
        A state funeral for Mr. Baghdadi was held yesterday in a Cairo suburb. The ceremonies were attended by Egypt's current President, Hosni Mubarak, and other high Government figures. On Saturday, Mr. Mubarak issued a statement saying that Mr. Baghdadi had ''served his country with devotion.''
        Mr. Baghdadi was born in Lower Egypt late in 1917 and excelled at Egypt's military academy in 1938 and its air force academy. After the revolution, in 1953, he became president of a court that tried prerevolutionary political figures. He was also Minister of War in 1953 and 1954,  Speaker of the Egyptian republic's first Parliament in 1957, and a Vice President from 1958 to 1961 of the short-lived United Arab Republic, formed by the union of Egypt with Syria. Other posts he held included Minister of Planning in the early 1960's and Vice President in a Presidential Council -- which advised Nasser -- for a period ending in 1964.
        After policy differences with Nasser, who became Egypt's longtime strongman and the first President of Egypt -- from 1956 to 1970 -- Mr. Baghdadi left Nasser's Government in 1964 and disappeared into the political shadows.
        He fell out with Nasser largely over Egypt's involvement in Yemen's civil war, which Mr. Baghdadi called ''Nasser's Vietnam.'' Mr. Baghdadi wanted a more circumspect policy of ''Egypt first.'' The two men are said to have reconciled before Nasser died in 1970.
        In 1972, Mr. Baghdadi and nine other Egyptians who had been prominent earlier in the Government sent a note to Anwar el-Sadat, who succeeded Nasser as President, criticizing the Sadat Government for ''over-dependence on the Soviet Union.''
        Information about Mr. Baghdadi's survivors was not immediately available.
      