
        David B. McCall and Joan Mills McCall, who excelled separately in the worlds of advertising, philanthropy and the arts and together as fiercely dedicated advocates for the world's displaced people, died in a car accident Sunday while on an aid mission in Albania.
        Mr. McCall was 71. His wife was 57. The couple lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y.
        Mr. and Mrs. McCall, together with Yvette Pierpaoli, a well-known French aid worker, and their driver, were on their way from Tirana, the Albanian capital, to the northern town of Kukes, where tens of thousands of refugees who have poured out of Kosovo have congregated in recent weeks. The four were driving in heavy rain when their car missed a turn on a winding mountain road and plunged several hundred feet into a ravine, said Dennis Grace, a vice president of Refugees International, where both Mr. and Mrs. McCall served on the board. All four were killed.
        Mr. Grace said that the McCalls were among their nation's most generous financial supporters of refugee aid. During their eight years of involvement with Refugees International, they participated in numerous missions to, among other places, Thailand, Cambodia, Somalia and Eritrea. They had traveled to Albania to explore the possibility of setting up a satellite radio network that would help refugee families separated by the chaos in Kosovo.
        ''The initial reports referred to them as two American aid workers,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the United States special envoy to the Balkans, who is chairman of Refugees International and was to be succeeded in that post by Mr. McCall later this year. ''They would have liked that. They were highly successful financially and socially. They could have lived a comfortable life in New York with their family and friends. Instead, they repeatedly risked their lives in Southeast Asia, Africa and the Balkans to increase public awareness of the plight of people in need.''
        Mr. McCall was born in New York, attended the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., and briefly attended Yale before serving in the armed forces during the Korean War. He began his career in advertising in the mail room at Young & Rubicam in 1951.
        From there, he joined Ogilvy & Mather, where he eventually was hand-picked by David Ogilvy, the agency's legendary founder, to succeed him as chief copywriter. At Ogilvy & Mather, Mr. McCall worked on campaigns for Sears, Roebuck & Company, Hathaway Shirts and Maxwell House coffee, for which he wrote the tag line ''Coffee that tastes as good as it smells.''
        In 1961, Mr. McCall left Ogilvy to become co-founder of an agency, McCaffrey & McCall Inc. There, he helped create campaigns for a variety of companies, including Exxon, Tiffany and Mercedes-Benz. One particularly memorable television commercial created by Mr. McCall for Norelco showed Santa Claus sledding down a hill on one of the company's electric shavers.
        ''David really supported the creative side tremendously, often times to the exclusion of the account managers,'' said Tom Yohe, who was a creative director at the agency in the 1970's.
        But it was McCaffrey & McCall's work for Mercedes-Benz that was probably most influential, setting the standard for how luxury cars are marketed in the United States.
        The agency was acquired by Saatchi & Saatchi in 1983. Mr. McCall left five years later, eventually becoming a partner in the Sawyer-Miller Group, a political and corporate communications consulting firm in New York. At the time of his death, he was chairman of Shepardson Stern & Kaminsky, a communications, consulting and advertising firm based in New York that he helped found six years ago.
        Throughout his career, Mr. McCall exhibited a strong passion for politics, education and human rights. In the 1960's, he served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the Congress for Racial Equality. Later, he was a founding member of the Central Park Conservancy and of Meals on Wheels.
        He also used advertising to promote social causes. Mr. McCall helped organize agencies around the country to create ads opposing the war in Vietnam, a campaign called ''Unsell the War.'' He created anti-tobacco advertising.
        But he took most pride in ''Schoolhouse Rock,'' an Emmy award-winning series of animated educational segments aimed at children that was shown on the ABC television network on Saturday and Sunday mornings from 1973 to 1985 and again in 1993.
        Mr. McCall was married three times and is survived by six sons from his first marriage, John P. McCall, Peter Cortelyou McCall, and David Bruce McCall, Jr., all of New York City, and William Dudley McCall of Atlanta, Robert McCall of Seattle and Thomas Clement McCall of Easton, Md.; a sister, Margaret G. Wasley of Niantic, Conn., and six grandchildren.
        He met his third wife at a party in Bridgehampton, and they were married in 1978. Born Joan Partridge Mills, and known as Penny, Mrs. McCall was born into wealth. Her mother was a member of the Ordway family, which helped found the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, or 3M.
        Mrs. McCall grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and attended the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury. In addition to her refugee work, she devoted much of her life to collecting art and supporting artists. She served on the board of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in Manhattan and established the Penny McCall Foundation to support contemporary artists, especially women and minorities.
        She was also a supporter of the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem and at the time of her death was working on an economic develop project in Harlem to set up an urban fashion design and manufacturing company in association with the Thurgood Marshall Academy.
        Mrs. McCall is survived by her mother, Dorothy O. Mills of Greenwich; a daughter from a previous marriage, Jennifer McSweeney Reuss of Rowayton, Conn.; and two brothers, George P. Mills of New York City, and Sam Mills of San Francisco.
        In recent years, the McCalls had focused much of their attention on the problem of land mines, which kill and maim thousands of refugees around the world each year.
        Only a few months ago, the couple were instrumental in starting a new organization called the Independent Demining Assessment Center. Its aim is to bring new mine detection and removal technology to the areas of the world that need it, said Mr. Grace of Refugees International, which is helping to organize the center.
      