
        Charlie Whittingham, the Hall of Fame horse trainer and the dean of racing on the West Coast for most of the last half-century, died yesterday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86.
        Whittingham had leukemia. An ambulance took him to the hospital yesterday from his home in Sierra Madre, his wife, Peggy, said.
        He was tall and lanky and as bald as a bridle, and he strode through the barns and winner's circles of thoroughbred racing with other giants like Horatio Luro and Woody Stephens for parts of seven decades. He was the most successful trainer at Santa Anita, the most celebrated on the West Coast and one of the most acclaimed in the business.
        He started his career walking horses and cleaning stalls in Tijuana, Mexico, when he was a teen-ager during the depths of the Depression, and ended his career training champions 60 years later. In between he had numerous achievements, including winning three Eclipse Awards as the best trainer in North America and winning the Kentucky Derby when he was 73 and again at 76, the oldest trainer ever to do so. He trained eight national champions, he won more than 2,400 other races and 650 other stakes, he led all trainers in prize money seven times, and he was elected into the Racing Hall of Fame in 1974.
        He did all this with an obsession that brought him to the stable before dawn every day and that kept him there until dark. ''I get five hours' sleep a night,'' he once said, ''but I haven't had a headache in 73 years.''
        His obsession did not encompass the Kentucky Derby. He refused to join the stampede on the road to Louisville, maintaining that too many good young horses were sacrificed to the rigors of preparing for the Triple Crown.
        But in 1986, he abruptly changed course and went to the Derby for the first time in 26 years with a large, muscular, durable colt named Ferdinand. The horse reflected all of the Whittingham doctrine of training: Take a sound, strong colt and work him hard and long. He put Ferdinand in the hands of the veteran champion jockey Bill Shoemaker, who had already ridden more than 200 Whittingham horses to stakes victories.
        After running 16th and last for a quarter of a mile, Ferdinand began to overtake horses, passed all 15 and won by more than two lengths. Whittingham rushed to the winner's circle to greet Ferdinand, Shoemaker and the horse's owner, Elizabeth Keck. ''It took me 26 years to get here because I said I wouldn't come till we got a good horse,'' he said to her. ''We got one now.''
        He also got one three years later when he returned with Arthur Hancock's Sunday Silence. And he made the winner's circle again when Sunday Silence outran the Eastern star Easy Goer in the Derby, the first of three memorable duels they staged in the Triple Crown series. Two weeks later, in one of the classic races of modern times, Sunday Silence clipped Easy Goer by a nose to win the Preakness. But when they finished the series three weeks later in the Belmont Stakes, it was Easy Goer by eight lengths.
        ''I'm trying to feel bad,'' Whittingham said, irrepressible as always. ''But they handed me this check for $1 million, the horse is fine and I plan on waking up tomorrow. Anyway, we beat the other horse two out of three. We just couldn't handle him on his home ground.''
        For Whittingham, there was more to come both times. Ferdinand came back to win the Breeders' Cup Classic and the title Horse of the Year in 1987, and Sunday Silence did the same in 1989.
        Charles Whittingham was born on April 13, 1913, in the town of Chula Vista, Calif., near San Diego. When he was a child, his father died, and he was raised by an aunt and uncle. He soon followed his older brother Joe to the local race track as a hot walker and stablehand.
        He took out his trainer's license in 1934, but didn't blossom until 1940, when he met Luro, the elegant, urbane horseman from Argentina who saddled his share of champions. The two future Hall of Famers pooled their energies, toured the country with a few horses and launched their successful careers. Luro died in 1991 at the age of 90.
        And when asked what he had learned from Luro, Whittingham replied: ''Patience. You've got to let the horse tell you when he's ready. Listen to anyone else, and you're in trouble.''
        He met and married Peggy Boone while in the Marines in 1944, and she followed him around the racing circuit when he returned to training horses after the war.
        Whittingham spent most of his career on the West Coast, where his horses won San Juan Capistrano Stakes 14 times, the San Bernardino 11 times, the Californian 11 times, the Sunset Handicap 11 times, the Santa Anita Handicap 9 times, the Beverly Hills 9 times, the San Luis Rey 9 times, the Hollywood Gold Cup 8 times and the Santa Barbara Stakes 7 times.
        His national champions included Porterhouse in 1953; Ack Ack, the 1971 Horse of the Year; Cougar II in 1972; Estrapade in 1986; Ferdinand in 1987, and Sunday Silence in 1989. He became the career leader in victories and purses at Santa Anita. Twenty of his horses earned more than a million dollars apiece. He won the Eclipse Award in 1971, 1982 and 1989.
        His son, Michael, also a trainer, had taken over most of the work of the Whittingham barn at Santa Anita in recent months. Another son, Taylor Whittingham, died in 1974. In addition to his wife and son, Whittingham is survived by a daughter, Charlene von Bleucher, of Arcadia, Calif.; a sister, Alice Rodich of Pomona, Calif.; 11 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
      