
        Charles (Buddy) Rogers, the handsome leading man and band leader who starred in ''Wings'' (1927), the first film to win an Academy Award, and who later married Mary Pickford, ''America's Sweetheart,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mr. Rogers was 94.
        Six feet tall, slim and with brown eyes and black hair, Mr. Rogers was a versatile musician whose almost inadvertent screen career catapulted him to immediate stardom. But in some 35 films between 1926 and 1957 -- vehicles with titles like ''Fascinating Youth,'' ''So's Your Old Man,'' ''My Best Girl,'' ''Abie's Irish Rose,'' ''Varsity,'' ''Dance Band,'' ''Golden Hoofs'' and ''Mexican Spitfire's Baby'' -- he never impressed critics as more than a pleasant performer.
        He portrayed pilots, college boys, salesmen and lawyers, but he was best remembered for his starring role as an all-American boy who goes off to fight the Hun as a member of the Army Air Corps in William A. Wellman's classic World War I spectacle, ''Wings,'' whose cast included Richard Arlen, Clara Bow and Gary Cooper.
        For his portrayal of the young airman, Paramount Pictures paid Mr. Rogers $65 a week and gave him three suits of clothes as a gift.
        After seeing him in ''Wings,'' Miss Pickford, one of film's foremost and wealthiest stars, asked that he be cast in her next film, 'My Best Girl.'' In that whimsical 1927 film, she played Maggie Johnson, a pretty salesgirl in a 5-and-10-cent store who captures the heart of Joe Merrill (Mr. Rogers), not knowing he is the son of the owner of the chain of stores.
        Miss Pickford, who had been married since 1920 to her second husband, Douglas Fairbanks, captured Mr. Rogers's heart off-screen as well, although they were not married until 1937, after Miss Pickford and Mr. Fairbanks were divorced.
        In later years, Mr. Rogers, who was 11 years younger than Miss Pickford, was fond of recalling that Clark Gable ''once told Mary, when we got married, that it wouldn't last six months.'' Their marriage ended only with Miss Pickford's death at 86 in 1979. In 1981, Mr. Rogers married Beverly Ricono, a Los Angeles real estate agent, who survives him.
        Mr. Rogers did not confine his show-business career to films. In 1932 he and his orchestra made their Broadway debut in Ziegfeld's ''Hot-Cha!,'' and throughout the years, he appeared in vaudeville and on radio and television and on the stage, and he produced films as well. During World War II, he served as a flight training instructor in the Navy.
        And with Miss Pickford, he presided over their legendary home, Pickfair, an estate named for Miss Pickford and Mr. Fairbanks and perched on a mountaintop overlooking Los Angeles.
        For years, through Miss Pickford's marriages to Mr. Fairbanks and Mr. Rogers, the home was the unofficial capital of Hollywood's brightest stars, a place where Chaplin and Keaton and Crawford were guests, where Pavlova danced and Maurice Chevalier sang.
        By 1971, three or four years after an eye operation, Miss Pickford rarely left her bedroom at Pickfair, but Mr. Rogers remained a genial host of parties for guests who stood among Frederic Remington paintings, drank Champagne from crystal and gold Louis XIV goblets and ate enormous shrimp served by two butlers and two maids.
        On one such occasion, speaking of his wife and making a little joke about their first film, Mr. Rogers said, ''She was 'My Best Girl' in 1927, and she's still my best girl.''
        He and Miss Pickford were active in philanthropy, contributing to charities like the Motion Picture and Television Fund, of which Miss Pickford was a founder; at the Academy Award ceremony in 1986, Mr. Rogers was given the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award for his ''philanthropic commitment.''
        Charles Rogers was born on Aug. 13, 1904, on a farm in Olathe, Kan., one of three children of Maude and Bert H. Rogers, who was a newspaperman and later a probate judge in Johnson County.
        Charles was known as Buddy from childhood. It was a nickname that he did not favor, but when he became a producer he used it to avoid confusion with another producer with the same name.
        After grammar and high school in Olathe, Mr. Rogers went off to the University of Kansas, where, eager to augment what was already a generous allowance, he formed an orchestra that earned him money by performing at dances.
        In the summer of 1925, his father, on a visit to Kansas City, heard from a friend in the film business about a nationwide search for candidates for Paramount's training school. A photo of Charles was sent off, and, much to his surprise, he found himself in the school and six months later playing the male lead in ''Fascinating Youth'' (1926).
        In 1987, when ''Wings'' was shown at a Library of Congress screening of the first 10 films to be selected by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences as best pictures of the year, Mr. Rogers was in the audience.
        When the film ended, he wiped away a tear and said, ''I'm only crying because I saw so many of my pals I'll never see again.''
      