
        Lucien Aigner, a pioneer in candid news photography in the 1930's whose best-known photographs include one of a rumpled Albert Einstein in front of a blackboard, died on Monday in a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. He was 97.
        In the 30's, photographers like Mr. Aigner, Erich Salomon, Alfred Eisenstaedt and Robert Capa used the unobtrusive 35-millimeter Leica to take off-the-cuff pictures that were revolutionary at the time and that hold a powerful immediacy more than half a century later. A reporter and photojournalist for Az Est, a Budapest newspaper, Mr. Aigner left for Paris in 1925.
        Over the next 10 years he established a name for himself as an enterprising photojournalist whose pictures appeared in publications in Paris and abroad.
        Besides the small Leica, Mr. Aigner had the advantage of his height (an unobtrusive five feet), enabling him to photograph where others might have been too noticeable. He took striking pictures of smoke-filled strategy sessions during the 1931 French Presidential election, for example, and caught Mussolini pinching his nose during an international conference in 1935.
        A selection of his photographs was reproduced in a 1979 book, ''Lucien Aigner,'' published by the International Center for Photography in New York as part of its Library of Photographers series.
        A 1934 picture of ballet practice at the Paris Grand Opera will probably remind the viewer of a Degas painting. But while the four dancers strike beautifully casual poses, the expressions on their faces vary from doubt to glee to faraway dreaming.
        Among Mr. Aigner's photographs of world leaders, his picture of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia at the train station in Geneva in 1935 is probably the most haunting. Selassie was to appear before a League of Nations session to ask for help as his country was being overrun by Mussolini's troops, and his face seems to bear witness to all the sorrows of his country.
        Mr. Aigner's portraits are among his best images. There is a delightfully unexpected profile of the pianist Paderewski, taken in New York in 1941. He is sitting on a low chair reading a newspaper, his figure in shadow, the sun shining on the back of his newspaper.
        Mr. Aigner was born in Hungary, on Sept. 14, 1901. While working as reporter for a Budapest newspaper, he was assigned to escort James Abbe, an American photographer, on a photographic assignment. Mr. Abbe offered his young tour guide a job in his Paris office. The job didn't last but Mr. Aigner stayed on. In 1939 he moved to the United States, where his work soon began appearing in such publications as The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, Look, Coronet and Pageant.
        In the late 1940's, he became an announcer and eventually a producer and director at the Voice of America. In the early 50's, during the McCarthy era, he was forced to leave his job, and for the next 20 years or so operated a portrait studio in Great Barrington, Mass.
        In 1977 Mr. Aigner gave up his portrait studio to concentrate on cataloguing and indexing his 100,000 or so negatives. Half of them, mostly taken in the 30's, were accidentally rediscovered in 1970 when he opened an old suitcase that his brother, the designer Etienne Aigner, had taken from Paris during World War II. The suitcase, abandoned in a Paris apartment that was taken over by the Germans during their occupation of France, was rescued by the concierge.
        Mr. Aigner is survived by four children, John Peter of Brooklyn,  Steven Andrew of Trumbull, Conn., Anne-Marie of Belmont, Mass., and Katherine Veronice Collins of San Francisco; his brother of New York, Paris and Cannes; a sister, Elizabeth Zentall of Laguna Hills, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      