
        Ralph J. Perk, the hard-luck Mayor of Cleveland whose misfortunes included accidentally setting his own hair on fire at a ceremonial appearance, died on Wednesday at the Cleveland Clinic Hospice unit of the Corinthian Skilled Nursing Center in Westlake, Ohio. He was 85.
        Mr. Perk, a Republican, was Mayor from 1972 to 1977.
        A native of Cleveland, he was also self-made. He dropped out of high school, managed to get some college education and peddled ice in the Depression. He benefited from enthusiastic backing of blue-collar voters in being elected a Cleveland Councilman and, later, Mayor.
        But even The Cleveland Plain Dealer acknowledged that he was ''probably best remembered nationally as the Mayor with the flaming hair, whose wife preferred bowling to dining at the White House.''
        It was in 1972 that, as R. W. Apple Jr. has written in The New York Times, Mayor Perk, ''at a ceremony designed to demonstrate his solidarity with the city's working men, somehow managed to set his hair alight with a blowtorch.'' He was wielding it to sever a steel ribbon and thereby formally open a convention of the American Society of Metals.
        Some months later, President Richard M. Nixon invited Mr. Perk and his wife, the former Lucille Gagliardi, to a dinner at the White House. But Mrs. Perk sent word that she could not attend because it was her night to go bowling.
        Mr. Perk campaigned for election as Mayor on an anti-tax platform. After taking office, he oversaw the borrowing of nearly $130 million to pay the bills of the city, whose manufacturing industries were battered by recession in the 1970's.
        He also reduced the work hours and pay of the city's employees
        In 1978, not long after Mr. Perk left office, Cleveland, with Mayor Dennis J. Kucinich in charge, defaulted on its financial obligations.
        Mr. Perk lost to John Glenn, a Democrat, in a Senate race in 1974.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucille, whom he married 59 years ago; a daughter, Virginia Bowers of Cleveland; six sons, Ralph Jr., a municipal court judge in Cleveland; Thomas, a Councilman in Valley View, a suburb of Cleveland; Kenneth, a member of the Valley View school board; Michael, of Cleveland, an employee of the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections; Richard, of Rocky River, west of Cleveland, an employee of the Ohio Lottery Commission, and Allen, of Gahanna, near Columbus; two brothers, Albert and George, both of Cleveland; 16 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      