
        Harold E. Samuel, a former music librarian and professor at the Yale University School of Music, died after a long illness on Tuesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 75.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said his son Hector.
        Though Mr. Samuel was a well-regarded professor and scholar, he was most noted for his 23-year tenure as music librarian at Yale, from which he retired in 1994. Largely through his perseverance and vision the library acquired major new collections and archives of materials that made it a leading research center, particularly in four areas: American composers; Germany between the two world wars; composers and musicians in jazz and musical theater, and composers associated with Yale.
        Mr. Samuel negotiated for and acquired collections of manuscripts, papers, letters and private recordings of, among others, Kurt Weill and Lotte Lenya, Vladimir and Wanda Horowitz, Carl Ruggles, Virgil Thomson and Leroy Anderson. Chief among his acquisitions was the collection of Benny Goodman, the jazz clarinetist and band leader, who bequeathed master tapes, 1,500 arrangements, 40 scrapbooks, 5,000 photographs and other papers.
        He also supervised the commercial release of 10 compact disks on the Music Masters label drawn from Goodman's private recordings.
        Mr. Samuel was born on April 12, 1924, in Hudson, Wis. His college education was interrupted by service in the United States Army Infantry in Europe from 1943 to 1946, for which he was awarded the Bronze Star. He  then received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Minnesota, continued his studies in Erlangen, Germany, and Zurich and was awarded a Ph.D. by Cornell University in 1963.
        From 1953 until 1971 he taught at Cornell. An offer to lead the music library at Yale took him to New Haven in 1971. The building of a new library became an immediate priority, which 23 years later and three years after his retirement finally bore success when the Irving S. Gilmore Music Library at Yale was dedicated last year and Mr. Samuel was showered with tributes.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Hamden, he is survived by his wife, Hella; another son, Mark, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Hester Weigand of Austin, Tex., and five grandchildren.
      