
        Munir Ahmad Khan, an administrator of Pakistan's nuclear energy programs when Pakistan was developing a nuclear weapon, died on Thursday in Vienna of complications after heart surgery. He was 72.
        Mr. Khan was not a scientist but frequently spoke for Pakistan's civilian and military nuclear policies at international conferences, according to Dr. George Perkovich of the W. Alton Jones Foundation in Charlottesville, Va., an expert on nuclear programs in Pakistan and India.
        After graduate work at the Illinois Institute of Technology, Mr. Khan was employed for 14 years beginning in 1958 by the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna as an administrator of the agency's nuclear power and fuel cycle programs.
        In 1972, after the war between India and Pakistan that led to the creation of Bangladesh as an independent nation, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, then Pakistan's President and later its Prime Minister, appointed Mr. Khan to head the nation's Atomic Energy Commission.
        Mr. Bhutto was overthrown and hanged in a military coup in 1977, but the nuclear program survived, culminating in a series of bomb tests conducted in the Baluchistan desert last May.
        Pakistan credited its success in producing nuclear weapons largely to Dr. Abdul Qadeer Khan, a bitter rival (and not a relative) of Munir Khan.
        After Pakistan's nuclear tests last year Abdul Khan was hailed by Pakistanis as a national hero. Although he was credited as the ''father'' of Pakistan's bomb, the Pakistan Government also paid tribute to the less spectacular role played by Munir Khan's Atomic Energy Commission.
        With the ascendancy of Abdul Khan in Pakistan's nuclear hierarchy, the role of Munir Khan was eclipsed, American experts said in interviews. But he remained active in nuclear policy discussions, and took part in meetings of the Shanghai Initiative, an unofficial forum of nuclear experts from several nations.
        Mr. Khan is survived by his wife, Thera, three children and four grandchildren.
      