
        Sir Laurence Kirwan, an archeologist and the former director of the British Royal Geographical Society, and a man for whom harsh and forbidding deserts, mountaintops and polar ice caps were irresistible attractions, died April 16 in a hospice in London. He was 91.
        Sir Laurence was noted for excavating royal tombs in the Sudanese desert dating from the fourth and fifth centuries A.D., for promoting the exploration of Antarctica, and for helping to plan and finance the first successful ascent of Mount Everest.
        For the three decades after World War II, he was the director and secretary of the Royal Geographical Society, a privately supported institution that many Britons look upon as a remnant of lost empire. In that role, he was involved in the planning and financing of three great expeditions.
        The most widely known was the Mount Everest expedition of 1953, which ended in triumph when Sir Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay became the first people to stand at the summit.
        Also widely admired was the Norwegian-British-Swedish Antarctic Expedition of 1949-52, which was the first international expedition to Antarctica and the first to explore the possibility that global warming might be a cause of the reduction of the polar ice cover.
        The third project was the Trans-Antarctic Expedition of 1955-57, led by Vivian Fuchs. In previous years, aircraft had flown across the polar ice cap, but this was the first land crossing, with the explorers riding in huge tanklike ''snow cats.'' Several of these cumbersome vehicles tumbled into ''a maze of deep, concealed crevasses of unparalleled extent,'' Sir Laurence wrote in his 1959 book ''The White Road,'' after interviewing the explorers. But the caravan eventually completed the crossing ''with almost military precision within a day of the planned date.''
        Robin Hanbury-Tenison, the British explorer, recalled, ''He spurred you to greater things by making you want to please him.''
        But Mr. Hanbury-Tenison recalled an exception. ''When I told him Richard Mason and I wanted to drive across Latin America at its widest point, from Recife, Brazil, to Lima, Peru, he said there were good and sufficient reasons why it hadn't been done before and that we'd never make it. After we did make it in 1958, he said, 'Well done, chaps,' recommended us for a minor award, and then wrote the preface for the book I wrote about our journey in which he apologized for the fact that he hadn't thought much of our project when we started out.''
        Archibald Laurence Patrick Kirwan was born in 1907 in Cregg, County Galway, Ireland, and was educated at the Wimbledon School and Merton College, Oxford. From 1929 to 1934, he was the assistant director of an archeological survey of Nubia. In 1935 he was the co-author of ''Excavations and Survey Between Wadi-es-Sebua and Adindan,'' in which he discussed the excavations of some of the earliest settlements in that region of the Sudan.
        For the next three years, he carried out further excavations as the field director of Sudanese expeditions conducted by Oxford. It was during this period that he directed excavations of the royal tombs at Ballana and Qustal, publishing his discoveries in 1938.
        During World War II, he served at the Ministry of Defense and was promoted to lieutenant colonel in 1943.  Immediately after the war, he was named the director and secretary of the Royal Geographical Society. He was knighted in 1972, and continued as the director and secretary until 1975. After his retirement, he continued as the editor of The Geographical Journal for three years.
        The picture of an aristocratic archeologist, Sir Laurence stood 6 feet 6 inches tall. He was known as a gentle but painstaking professor when he taught at Edinburgh, London and Cairo universities.
        He was married twice. His second wife, Stella, died in 1997. He is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Preston of London.
        Sir Laurence's involvement in two Antarctic expeditions excited his interest in what he called ''the cold deserts'' and led to his 1959 book,  which was published in the United States a year later under the title ''A History of Polar Exploration.''
        His contribution to polar exploration is acknowledged in such place names as the Kirwan Escarpment, in Queen Maud Land in Antarctica, and the Kirwan Inlet on Alexander Island off the Antarctic Peninsula.
      