
        Orlandus Wilson, whose bass voice was the foundation of the Golden Gate Quartet's gospel harmonies, died on Dec. 30 in Paris, where he lived. He was 81.
        The Golden Gate Quartet had a huge influence on American sacred and secular music. Performing in clubs and concert halls as well as churches, and backing up blues singers like Lead Belly and Josh White, the quartet demonstrated that gospel had all the vitality of secular music. Its driving versions of spirituals were a model of vocal harmony for groups from the Dixie Hummingbirds to the Spaniels. And Mr. Wilson, who joined the group in 1934, provided its syncopated bass lines for six decades.
        Mr. Wilson was born in Chesapeake, Va. When he joined the Golden Gate Jubilee Singers in 1934, all four members were still in high school. Two years later the group was singing five days a week for a radio station in Columbia, S.C., and in 1937, they signed to RCA Records' Bluebird label, releasing a new single every month.
        In 1938, they were part of the program at John Hammond's historic ''Spirituals to Swing'' concert at Carnegie Hall, sharing the bill with Joe Turner, Sidney Bechet, Lionel Hampton and Benny Goodman. The quartet stayed in New York City with a regular engagement at Cafe Society, where their sets included gospel and popular material. In churches, the quartet sang only gospel songs.
        The group moved to Columbia Records in 1941 and shortened its name to the Golden Gate Quartet. During World War II, it recorded songs like ''Stalin Wasn't Stallin' '' along with spirituals. Mr. Wilson left the group to join the Navy in 1944 and returned in 1946. The quartet had a national radio show on the CBS network and appeared in a number of films, including ''Star Spangled Rhythm,'' ''Hollywood Canteen,'' ''Bring On the Girls'' and ''A Song Is Born.'' It had performed at the inauguration of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, becoming the first black group to sing in Constitution Hall, and also sang for the Roosevelts at the White House.
        In 1958, after a 28-country tour sponsored by the State Department, the Golden Gate Quartet relocated to Paris. With Mr. Wilson as its manager and arranger, the group continued to be a major concert draw in Europe and on world tours. Since the 1970's, the group has included Mr. Wilson's grandnephew, Paul Brembly.
        In 1994, the quartet gave its first performance in the United States since the 1950's when it was inducted into the hall of fame of United in Group Harmony, an organization devoted to preserving the history of vocal harmony.
        Mr. Wilson announced his retirement from performing with the quartet in October but continued to oversee rehearsals for his replacement, Andrew Freeman.
        He is survived by his wife, Gun, and a son, Charles, of California.
      