
        Jim Copp, a creator of children's records with loony tunes, literate lyrics, occasional dark themes and wacky characters like the Dog That Went to Yale, died at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles on April 7. He was 85.
        Between 1958 and 1971, Mr. Copp and his partner, Ed Brown, composed, performed and recorded on their label, Playhouse Records, sketches for nine albums with titles like ''East of Flumdiddle,'' ''Gumdrop Follies'' and ''Thimble Corner.''
        The lyrics for ''The Dog That Went to Yale'' capture their flair for the  nonsensical:
        When I was eleven and Linda was five
        We owned the most talented doggy alive.
        Though the tricks that he mastered were cause for acclaim
        He also possessed a remarkable name.
        A remarkable name, you say.
        What was the name?
        Harrison Garrison Bobblety Bee
        Cornelius Aurelius Rover McGee
        Daniel, Nathaniel Houligan Flea
        Horowitz Huntington Climber McTree
        Snooper O'Flaherty Jumper Kerplop
        Huntington Harrington Thaddeus Hop
        Hopperdee Hoppidy Archibald bane.
        By contrast, ''Kate Higgins,'' on the album ''Agnes Mouthwash and Friends,'' was darker:
        Kate Higgins, I regret to state
        Grew mutinous one night at eight
        And stamped her foot
        And screamed and cried
        And punched her father in the side.
        Kate winds up hiding in the phonograph and emerges after her parents have given up looking for her and gone to bed. She then stuffs herself with rhubarb pie, jelly beans and chocolate cake only to wake up the next morning ''wishing she were dead.''
        After a reviewer for The New Yorker called the recordings ''deliciously fresh and funny'' in 1958, Playhouse Records began appearing in upscale stores and soon developed a loyal following. More accolades ensued. Time magazine pronounced the records ''fresh, clever and inventive'' and The Atlantic said they were ''funny, sophisticated, uncondescending.''
        Musically, the records were a potpourri of extraordinary sounds from instruments like pump organs, kazoos, autoharps and bongo drums, all played by Mr. Copp. Working without  current audio technology, Mr. Copp went to great lengths to create a lush soundtrack. To create the crackling sound of a fire, he built one in his shower and recorded the noise. To create the crashing sound of a falling chandelier, he smashed a barrel of glasses.
        In the story ''Miss Goggins and the Gorilla,'' a classroom filled with children was required to sing off-key. Mr. Copp achieved that effect by dubbing his voice 24 times. On another occasion, he dubbed his voice 90 times to create the roar of a crowd.
        Mr. Copp was the main creative force behind the albums, while Mr. Brown played some of the characters, designed the album covers, handled the marketing and contributed clever puns.
        The albums disappeared from  stores in the 1980's after Mr. Brown died and Mr. Copp did not want to go on recording without his collaborator. But the albums found a new audience in the 1990's after their reissue in CD and cassette formats by Playhouse Records (http ://members.aol.com/playhytone/).
        Mr. Copp was born in Los Angeles in 1913, the son of a lawyer. He studied at Stanford and Harvard universities before developing a  nightclub act called ''James Copp 3d and His Thing.''
        During World War II, he served in an intelligence unit. Returning to Los Angeles after the war, he wrote a society column for The Los Angeles Times. In 1958, he met Mr. Brown, and they produced an album a year for the next decade.
        Mr. Copp left no immediate survivors.
      