
        Lord Killanin, the president of the International Olympic Committee from 1972 to 1980, a tumultuous period when the Olympic movement was buffeted by political boycotts, died yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 84.
        Lord Killanin, an Irish peer who had been a journalist, film producer, author, business executive and chief deputy to Avery Brundage of the United States, succeeded Mr. Brundage as the Olympic president soon after the Munich Olympics, at which Israeli athletes and coaches were massacred by Palestinian terrorists.
        Over the next eight years, Lord Killanin presided over an Olympic movement that continued to feel the impact of events that once seemed far removed from the world of sports. In 1976 African nations boycotted the Montreal Olympics over issues arising from South African apartheid, and in 1980 the United States led a boycott of the Moscow Games to protest the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
        Lord Killanin opposed tying politics to Olympic participation.
        ''That does not mean that I or the International Olympic Committee are condoning the political action taken by the host country, but if we started to make political judgments, it would be the end of the Games,'' he said as the 1980 Moscow Games approached.
        Lord Killanin was born Michael Morris in London on July 30, 1914, the son of an officer in the Irish Guards and an Australian mother. He was educated at Eton, the Sorbonne and Cambridge's Magdalene College and was an amateur boxer, rider and rower, but he never competed on an international level.
        His grandfather was named a baron by Queen Victoria in 1885, and Michael Morris became the third Baron Killanin when an uncle who held the title died in 1927.
        A pipe-smoking, rumpled and jowly figure -- he lost 55 pounds during his tenure -- Lord Killanin evoked the image of an aristocratic English sportsman, his voice revealing not a hint of his Irish ancestry.
        But as a young man he earned his living far from aristocratic pursuits, having turned to the highly competitive world of British journalism. In 1936, he stood around for three weeks on the doorstep of Fort Belvedere, the private home of King Edward VIII, waiting for news on his impending abdication. The following year to went to China to cover the Japanese-Chinese war for The Daily Mail, and he later wrote a political column for The Sunday Dispatch.
        He saw combat in World War II in the King's Royal Rifle Corps.
        Lord Killanin became active in Olympic affairs in the early 1950's and was named first vice president in 1968.
        He came to the Olympic presidency amid storms -- the expulsion of white-dominated Rhodesia from the Munich Games under pressure from African nations, the massacre of the Israeli Olympians and pressures to ease Mr. Brundage's rigid definitions of amateurism.
        As I.O.C. president, Lord Killanin sought to eliminate national uniforms, flags and anthems, believing that nations would turn from propaganda if they were denied patriotic symbols. ''We have the big shots, America and Russia, trying to prove their way of life is better because of the number of medals they win,'' he said at the Munich Games. ''It proves nothing of the sort.''
        In 1980, when President Jimmy Carter orchestrated a boycott of the Moscow Games by more than 50 countries over Soviet intervention in Afghanistan, Lord Killanin said, ''It is Moscow or nothing.''
        Calling a boycott a violation of the Olympic charter, he maintained that the awarding of the Games to Moscow in the mid-1970's had been a binding contract that could be broken only if the Russians breached their obligations first.
        In line with his determination to separate sport from world events, he had warned the Soviet Government four years earlier that it would lose the Games if it tried to bar athletes from countries like China and Israel because of political differences.
        During Lord Killanin's tenure, steps were taken to ease the amateur code espoused by Mr. Brundage. In 1974 the I.O.C. approved a new eligibility code giving an athlete adequate time for training and payment for that time pending approval by the athlete's national federation.
        Lord Killanin retired from the Olympic presidency in 1980 and was succeeded by Juan Antonio Samaranch of Spain, who remains as president amid a widespread Olympic scandal.
        Lord Killanin is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter.
      