
        Dr. Richard Harold Freyberg, a leading rheumatologist who helped organize the Arthritis Foundation and build it into today's 700,000-member organization with a professional staff of 750, died Jan. 23 at his retirement home in Venice, Fla. He was 94 and formerly lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Dr. Freyberg came to New York in 1944 as director of the newly established Division of Rheumatic Diseases at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan, a post he filled for nearly three decades. Concurrently, he served as chief of the arthritis clinic at New York Hospital.
        He left for Palm Desert, Calif., in 1974 to help establish the Arthritis and Rheumatism Wing of Eisenhower Medical Center there. After retiring to Florida, he remained active in his field as a lecturer and writer. Dr. Freyberg was co-author of ''The History of Rheumatology,'' published in 1985 by the Arthritis Foundation.
        A native of Goshen, Ind., he attended the University of Michigan on a basketball scholarship but became captain of the track team and a noted middle-distance runner. He graduated from Michigan in 1926 and from its medical school in 1930.
        After completing his residency in internal medicine, he was asked to set up the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit at Michigan. He directed its research projects until his move to New York.
        In 1948, Dr. Freyberg and a few colleagues met in a New York hotel room with Floyd B. Odlum, an industrialist afflicted with rheumatoid arthritis. That meeting led eventually to the founding of the Arthritis Foundation with an initial fund-raiser led by Bob Hope that netted about $500,000.
        The foundation moved to Atlanta in 1977 and today operates with an annual budget of $110 million to support research, cures and prevention and to improve the lot of those affected. Dr. Freyberg was a director for 22 years and more recently remained an honorary trustee.
        He also became active in the American Rheumatism Association and was president in the late 1940's.
        Dr. Freyberg's wife, Helen Beckman Freyberg, died in 1985 after 50 years of marriage. He is survived by a daughter, Joanne Moss of Birmingham, Mich.; a son, Thomas, of Palos Verdes, Calif.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      