
        Herbert Young, who was decorated by the French Government in February for his service in World War I, died on Thursday at his home in Harlem. He would have turned 113 next week.
        Mr. Young, a retired mechanic, was considered the oldest living New Yorker by the city's Department for the Aging.
        He was awarded a medal, which made him a knight in the Order of the Legion of Honor, on Feb. 22 by the French Consul General in New York, Richard Duque, in the French Consulate General in Manhattan. Mr. Young saluted while ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' was played and later raised a glass of Champagne.
        His decoration was one of those that France began awarding to living veterans of World War I last year to mark the 80th anniversary of the end of the war.
        In France, he was in a Pioneer Infantry regiment that was one of the black United States Army units that served under the French flag in World War I in what has been called an expression of segregationism by the American Army.
        In an interview last month, he said: ''I went in the Army in the last part of 1917, enlisted because I was lonely. All the rest of the boys had gone to the service. When I went to France, they put us with the French Army; the U.S. Army didn't want us because we were colored.''
        Arthur E. Barbeau and Florette Henri, both historians, wrote in their book, ''The Unknown Soldiers: Black American Troops in World War I'' (1974, Da Capo), that for the black Pioneer Infantry regiments sent to that war, the American military ''does not seem to have seriously contemplated combat service; the pared-down infantry training they were given indicates rather that their true function was work.''
        With age, Mr. Young's vision became imperfect and he acquired a hearing aid. But his memories of World War I remained vivid. In an interview after the medal ceremony, he said that during long-ago battles  in France, ''I was scared all right, and anyone who says otherwise is fibbing.''
        ''I saw boys die right in front of me, some of my friends.''
        And his 76-year-old son, Oscar, said that his father was resentful after the war ended. ''After all he did, he came back home, and a black man couldn't do nothing,'' Oscar Young recalled. ''So he's real proud today, and so are we.''
        Mr. Young's granddaughter Martha Jones said: ''It's a big honor. Something he's waited for a long, long time.''
        He was born in Kingston, Jamaica, in 1886 and was brought to the United States as a baby by his mother, and grew up in Boston.
        Mr. Young was a corporal in 1918, when he served in a crucial Allied counteroffensive in France that pushed the Germans back toward the east. The Allied gain of terrain was precious, but also costly in terms of casualties.
        ''There was about 350 men in our outfit,'' the 807th Pioneer Infantry regiment, he said in an interview last month, ''and I guess about 12 came home, including me. God didn't want me yet.'' He said the 807th was not a combat unit, and ''we went to the front and built bridges.''
        But Mr. Young said in the interview that ''a lot of our men died fighting,'' although most of the deaths in his unit came from disease. He said he himself wielded bayonets against the enemy, and was made sick by German poison gas. After World War I ended in 1918, he had to stay in Europe for nine months, and his duties included burying the dead.
        Then he returned to Massachusetts and worked as a civilian auto mechanic. He first arrived in New York in the Depression and managed to find work as a used-car mechanic for Pontiac. A quarter-century ago he married his wife, Grace, when he was in his late 80's and she in her mid-20's. She survives.
        More information about survivors was not immediately available.
        When reporters asked Mr. Young last month how he had managed to live so long, he said modestly, ''I took care of myself and stayed out of trouble.''
        After he received his French medal, he said he would give it to his great-great-great-granddaughter Jasmine Holmes, who is 11. She promised she would hand it on to her descendants.
      