
        Arthur L. Schawlow, co-winner of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physics for his role in the development of lasers, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Palo Alto.
        The cause was congestive heart failure resulting from leukemia, said a spokesman at Stanford University, where Dr. Schawlow was an emeritus physics professor.
        Dr. Schawlow gained fame in the 1950's when he collaborated with Dr. Charles H. Townes in designing features of a device that came to be known as a laser -- after Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation.
        Conflicting claims to the invention of lasers persisted for many years, but there is general agreement that the first working laser was built by Dr. Theodore H. Maiman at Hughes Research Laboratories in Malibu, Calif. The device was first operated on May 16, 1960.
        Dr. Schawlow and Dr. Townes worked together at Columbia University to develop a device called a maser -- the microwave ancestor of the laser -- a device that Dr. Townes had invented. Their goal was to invent something that would amplify light in the same way that the maser amplified microwaves.
        Dr. Schawlow conceived the idea of building a chamber, or ''cavity,'' consisting of a synthetic ruby that would act as a kind of echo chamber for light. At one end of the ruby was a highly polished mirror and at the other end was a semi-transparent mirror that would allow light to pass through once it had been amplified to a certain threshold level.
        The two scientists published their idea in 1957, prompting an international competition to build a working laser.
        Early lasers consisted of ruby cavities surrounded by coiling flash lamps similar to strobe lights used by cameras. Energy from a flash lamp pumped atoms within the ruby cavity to higher energy levels. When these atoms fell back to a lower energy state, they emitted light. A cascade of synchronized emissions resulted, causing laser light.
        Unlike ordinary light, laser light is coherent; that is, its waves march in step with one another. The special properties of lasers have found countless uses in modern life, including bar-code readers, compact disks and weapons.
        Among the leading pioneers of laser science were Dr. Polykarp Kusch of Columbia University, who was awarded a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1955 for his discoveries about the properties of electrons, and his graduate student Gordon Gould, who coined the word ''laser.'' But the most famous of the laser scientists were Dr. Townes and Dr. Schawlow.
        In 1964, Dr. Townes shared a Nobel Prize with two Soviet physicists, Dr. Aleksandr M. Prochorov and Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, for their independent development of maser-laser devices.
        Seventeen years later, Dr. Schawlow shared a Nobel with Dr. Nicolaas Bloembergen of Harvard University for their contributions to the development of laser spectroscopy.
        Throughout the history of the laser, there were disagreements and lawsuits regarding its invention.
        Dr. Schawlow and Dr. Townes were awarded the original patent for the laser, but in 1977 Dr. Gould, after a long legal battle, finally obtained a patent for optically pumped lasers. But he was not awarded a Nobel.
        Arthur Schawlow was born on May 5, 1921, in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was a brilliant student, and won a scholarship at the University of Toronto to study radio engineering. A spokesman for Stanford University said that in 1948 Dr. Schawlow was conducting an atomic beam experiment in the basement of a campus laboratory when he met Boris Stoicheff, who was to become a faculty member at the University of Toronto and a lifelong friend.
        In an oral history of Dr. Schawlow, Dr. Stoicheff said that ''it was a special pleasure to visit the basement lab, where often in the evenings Art would be serenading his atomic beam with the clarinet, which he played reasonably well.'' The favored music was Dixieland jazz.
        After receiving a Ph.D. from Toronto, Dr. Schawlow was awarded a postdoctoral fellowship from Columbia University to work with Dr. Townes, who was doing research on microwave spectroscopy at the time.
        Dr. Townes had hoped to keep Dr. Schawlow with him at Columbia, the Stanford spokesman said, but love intervened. Dr. Schawlow married Dr. Townes's youngest sister, Aurelia, in 1951, and because of the university's anti-nepotism regulation, Dr. Schawlow was obliged to leave.
        He then joined Bell Laboratories in New Jersey, where he studied superconductivity, a phenomenon not directly related to lasers.
        But the young physicist managed to spend weekends in New York at Dr. Townes's Columbia laboratory, and it was during that period that the two men hit upon the scheme for amplifying visible light.
        In 1961 Dr. Schawlow left Bell Labs to join the faculty at Stanford, where he worked on laser and microwave spectroscopy and superconductivity.
        Neither Dr. Schawlow nor Dr. Townes profited financially from their laser patent because it would have broken contractual obligations; Dr. Schawlow was working at Bell Labs when the patent was issued, and Dr. Townes was serving as a consultant to Bell Labs.
        Dr. Schawlow and his wife championed causes supporting autistic children like their son, Artie, of Paradise, Calif. In 1991, while Mrs. Schawlow was on her way to visit their son,  she was killed in an car accident.
        Besides his son, Dr. Schawlow is survived by two daughters, Helen Johnson of Stevens Point, Wis., and Edie Dwan of Charlotte, N.C., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 17, 1999, Thursday  An obituary on April 30 about Arthur L. Schawlow, co-winner of the 1981 Nobel Prize in Physics, misstated the achievement for which he was cited. A reader pointed out in mid-May that it was contributions to the development of laser spectroscopy, not the development of lasers. (This correction was delayed for checking of several questions raised by the letter.)
      