
        Brian Moore, the author of 19 novels, including ''The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne,'' died yesterday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Jean Denney.
        With his sparse, clear prose and lonely characters stifled by a narrow provincialism and religiosity, Mr. Moore was sometimes compared to his fellow Irishman James Joyce in Joyce's early work, ''The Dubliners.'' In ''The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne,'' published in the United States in 1956, Mr. Moore portrayed a Belfast spinster, an alcoholic, longing for marriage. The Los Angeles Times said it ''contains what may be the finest description in English of the trembling moment -- exquisitely prolonged in Moore's telling -- when an alcoholic determined to remain sober surrenders to the bottle.''
        Said Christopher Lehmann-Haupt, a book critic for The New York Times, ''He was one of the best-known obscure writers alive.'' Short-listed for Britain's Booker Prize three times, Mr. Moore never won, and his books were not consistently best sellers. Still, his novels were deeply admired by other authors, including Graham Greene, who said Mr. Moore was ''my favorite living novelist.''
        In his later novels especially, Mr. Moore wrestled with moral questions. In ''The Statement,'' published in 1996, he wrote about a Roman Catholic French war criminal who was hidden for years by the church. The book was inspired by Paul Touvier, who was convicted of crimes against humanity for ordering the execution of French Jews during World War II and who was hidden by right-wing clerics in France.
        Mr. Moore's last novel, ''The Magician's Wife,'' in 1998, was the story of a French magician sent by Napoleon III to hoodwink Muslim clerics in Algeria. The man's wife realizes the mission is an effort to colonize the Algerians, and suffers a crisis of conscience. Mr. Lehmann-Haupt, writing in The New York Times, called the book a ''tour de force of fictional-historical compression.''
        Mr. Moore could write fluently in the voices of men or women. And each book was strikingly different. ''Black Robe,'' in 1985, was about a French priest traveling with native Indians in 17th-century Canada. ''No Other Life,'' in 1993, was about a messianic priest on a Caribbean island, a character reminiscent of  Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the populist priest who became President of Haiti. In ''The Great Victorian Collection,'' in 1975, a scholar of 19th-century art wakes up from a dream about Victorian artifacts in a motel in Carmel, Calif., only to find to find a huge collection of the art in the parking lot.
        ''The reason he wasn't always given his due is because people couldn't pigeonhole him,'' said the British writer Hermione Lee, a friend and English literature professor at Oxford University. ''He wanted to become an invisible writer, ideally so his readers wouldn't say, 'Oh I've read a book by this writer,' but would be completely absorbed and gripped by that story.''
        Brian (pronounced BREE-an) Moore was born in 1921 in Belfast, Northern Ireland, the son of a prominent Roman Catholic surgeon and former nurse in a family of nine children. After graduating from St. Malachy's College in Belfast, he decided he wanted to escape his homeland.
        During World War II, he joined the British Ministry of War Transport and served in North Africa, Italy and France. After the war, he worked for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in Eastern Europe, where he visited Auschwitz.
        In 1948, Mr. Moore followed a woman with whom he had fallen in love to Canada. Though the relationship ended, he eventually got a job at The Montreal Gazette, becoming a reporter known for his speed and accuracy. He also became a Canadian citizen. Mr. Moore wanted to write fiction, but his first novel, ''The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne,'' was rejected by about 10 American publishers. It was finally published in Britain.
        An early marriage to Jacqueline Scully ended in divorce, and in 1967 he married Ms. Denney, a Canadian.
        Mr. Moore is survived by his wife; a son from his first marriage, Michael Moore, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a grandson, and seven siblings.
        Besides novels, Mr. Moore wrote screenplays, including Alfred Hitchcock's ''Torn Curtain'' (1966). Several of his books became films, most recently ''Black Robe'' (1991), directed by Bruce Beresford.
        Small and slender, Mr. Moore had an American accent with Ulster overtones. ''He loved an argument,'' said a friend, the writer Calvin Trillin. ''He loved to provoke people, loved to take what he would call 'a bloody-minded stance.' ''
        For most of the year, Mr. Moore lived in Malibu. After a visit to Mr. Moore's home there, Seamus Heaney, in his poem ''Remembering Malibu,'' compared the location to the lonely coast of Northern Ireland. In recent years, Mr. Moore spent summers in Nova Scotia, where he had a home on a bay surrounded by pine trees.
      