
        Sir Alf Ramsey, who in 1966 coached England to its only World Cup soccer championship, died Wednesday in a nursing home near his home in Ipswich.
        He was 79 and had been confined to the nursing home, said Pat Godbolt, his former secretary with the Ipswich Town team, since a stroke during last year's World Cup finals in France.
        Ramsey was an autocratic coach, or manager, as the English call the position. But as Kevin Keegan, the present coach of the England national team, said: ''He was quite simply the greatest manager England ever had. He was a smashing man and was loved by his players.''
        From 1946 to 1955, Ramsey played for Southampton and then Tottenham Hotspur. He also played fullback for England alongside the legendary Sir Stanley Matthews in 32 international matches.
        For the next nine years, he was coach of Ipswich Town, leading the team from the Third Division to the championships of the Second Division in 1960 and the First Division in 1961.
        From 1963 to 1974, he coached England to 69 victories, 17 defeats and 27 draws. In the 1966 World Cup final at Wembley Stadium in London, his team scored a 4-2 overtime victory over West Germany.
        He was knighted the following year for giving England what Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday called ''the greatest moment in its sporting history.''
        Ramsey's 1970 England team was eliminated in overtime in the World Cup quarterfinals. His team failed to qualify for the 1974 finals, and he was dismissed in 1974. In 1977, he briefly coached Birmingham City.
        ''Alf Ramsey gave all of us in the football business the greatest moment we have ever had as players, as coaches, as managers, as fans and as officials,'' said Sir Bobby Charlton, the star of the 1966 team. ''He was professional to his fingertips and as popular with the players as any manager I've ever seen. He was a winner.''
        Alan Mullery, a midfielder for England's 1970 World Cup team, called Ramsey ''the best manager England have ever had.''
        Mullery also told this story: ''Once, when England were playing Brazil in the great Maracana stadium, I was meant to be marking Pele. Alf saw me looking nervous and said to me, 'If you were not good enough to play against this fella, you would be back home watching it on the telly.' It helped me, and I went out and played one of the best games I have ever played.''
        Ramsey was proud of his World Cup victory.
        ''My overriding memory of my life in football is the joy I brought to my team and to the country,'' he once said. ''I only ever wanted to be a winner. And I was. How many people can say that?''
      