
        Kenneth Donald Glancy, a former president of RCA Records who helped foster the careers of such disparate artists as Woody Herman, Pierre Boulez, David Bowie and Cleo Laine, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Cagnes-sur-Mer, in southern France.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Glancy had charge of the artists and repertory of Columbia Records, Columbia's European operations and, in the 1970's, all RCA labels worldwide as president and chief executive. He left in 1980 to found his Finesse label and issue albums by Mel Torme, the Modern Jazz Quartet, Paul Desmond and Ms. Laine. He retired in the early 1990's.
        Born in Springfield, Mass., Mr. Glancy interrupted his studies at Amherst to serve as a technical sergeant in the Army Corps of Engineers in Britain, France and Belgium during World War II. On his return, he prepared for a teaching career at the University of Michigan. He was working on his doctorate in English when necessity changed his life.
        Married by now, he took what he thought would be a temporary job as a salesman for Columbia Records. Instead he was promoted to Midwestern sales manager, visiting stores and distributors to make sure Columbia's records were selling well.
        He also learned the record business from the ground up as he moved to the company's artists-and-repertory division. By the early 1960's, he was the vice president responsible for all production, from classical to pop to jazz. But a boardroom upheaval at Columbia prompted his reassignment to London with a mission to salvage the faltering British division.
        Mr. Glancy turned it around with a series of hit records, causing RCA to rescue its similarly ailing British branch. Music Week, a British trade paper, noting Mr. Glancy's quiet way of getting things done, wrote as he prepared to return to New York after eight years:
        ''He has made an oustanding success of the two companies which he has run in this country. And it's probably a measure of the man that he has done so without ever seeming to try -- at least in public.''
        He was named president of RCA Records in 1973, when it was a subsidiary of RCA Corporation. (RCA's labels now belong to the Bertelsmann media empire, while Columbia's are owned by Sony.) In recent years, while retired, Mr. Glancy stayed actively in touch with the classical and jazz music worlds in the United States and Europe.
        He is survived by his wife, Maida Kaperst Glancy; a daughter from an earlier marriage, Suzanne Gallagher of Canton, Mich.; two grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      