
        Anthony P. Rios, a veteran political organizer among Hispanic Californians, died on May 19 at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Baldwin Park, a suburb of Los Angeles. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Rios joined Saul Alinsky, the Chicago sociologist and organizer, in founding the Community Service Organization in California in 1947. Their purpose was to marshal Hispanic Californians and turn them into a political and social force to reckon with.
        He was a mentor to former Representative Edward R. Roybal, a social worker and public-health educator whose political career the group championed. Mr. Roybal won election to the Los Angeles City Council in 1949 and went on to Washington in 1963, where he stayed until 1992, serving in important committee posts and as chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
        Mr. Rios, a native of Calexico, Calif., and a former labor organizer himself, was also an early supporter of Cesar Chavez and his campaign to organize farm workers in California.  Mr. Rios, started organizing as a teen-ager in the 1930's when he and his fellow lemon pickers were left without jobs in the winters. He became involved in organizing steelworkers in Los Angeles and, in 1947, helped to form the a group that rallied people to register and vote.
        Over the next decades the organization inspired chapters across California, especially in rural areas. Mr. Chavez, a migrant worker, became active in the movement in 1952 and was serving as its general director in 1962, when he left to form the United Farm Workers union.
        As the Community Service Organization grew, Mr. Rios's long-term goal remained what it had been at the start, involving Hispanic residents in the political process.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosie Vasquez; three daughters, Geraldine, of Montebello, Calif., Senda, of Hayward, Donna, of San Luis Obispo; two sons, Fernando, of Whittier, and Tony Jr., of Los Angeles; a brother, Armando; 10 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren.
      