
        Paul Sacher, a conductor, champion of contemporary music and arts patron, whose family fortune, based on a controlling share of the Roche pharmaceutical empire, amounted to an estimated $13 billion, died yesterday after a long illness. He was 93.
        Mr. Sacher was staking out a significant career as a musician even before his marriage made him a wealthy man.
        Born on April 28, 1906, in Basel, Switzerland, he studied at the Basel Conservatory with the eminent conductor Felix Weingartner and was trained in musicology at the university there by the scholar Karl Nef. In 1926 he founded the Basel Chamber Orchestra, adding a chamber choir two years later.
        In 1933, deciding that the repertory from the Classical era through the early 20th century was well tended to, he founded the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, an institute for the study of early music, and also devoted himself with messianic fervor to the works of living composers. Stravinsky, Bartok, Honegger and Hindemith were among the first composers whom he befriended and whose works he performed.
        In 1934, he married Maja Stehlin, the widow of Fritz Hoffmann, son and sole heir to the founder of Hoffmann-La Roche, the international pharmaceutical company that manufactures, among other drugs, Valium and Lithium.
        Mr. Sacher served as a board member of the company for nearly 60 years, playing a key role in regaining the family's majority stake in the firm after World War II, and guiding the company during a rough period in the late 1970's when it fought allegations of profiteering from the development of Valium.
        Mr. Sacher was a savvy businessman and workaholic, by turns avuncular, affable and cuttingly sarcastic. He was also an astute musician and patron.
        Seldom has a fortune been put to such important artistic ends. Using his post as the music director of the Basel Chamber Orchestra and his frequent appearances with orchestras and festivals throughout Europe, Mr. Sacher commissioned and performed an impressive array of new works, more than 80 in all.
        Those works included Bartok's Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta, as well as that composer's Divertimento and Violin Concerto; Hindemith's ''Harmonie der Welt,'' Honegger's Second and Fourth Symphonies, Martin's ''Petite Symphony Concertante,'' Strauss's ''Metamorphosen,'' Stravinsky's Concerto in D and ''A Sermon, a Narrative, and a Prayer,'' as well as works by Britten, Fortner, Henze, Boulez, Tippett and many others.
        He also set up and maintained the Paul Sacher Foundation, which continues to commission new works and houses a library in Basel containing one of the world's most illustrious collections of original manuscripts. In 1983 Mr. Sacher was involved in a public controversy over the fate of an archive of manuscripts, letters and documents of Stravinsky, which were being temporarily held at the New York Public Library.
        When Stravinsky's widow died early that year, a protracted bidding war broke out over the archive. Mr. Sacher's foundation eventually offered $5.2 million, significantly topping the next-highest offers by the New York Public Library and the Morgan Library.
        Mr. Sacher's wife is his only immediate survivor.
        Roche announced yesterday that the Hoffmann and Oeri-Hoffmann heirs would take possession of Mr. Sacher's share in the company so that the founding families would maintain their controlling interest.
      