
        Waldo Semon, a chemist and inventor who brought about the age of vinyl, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, Ohio. He was 100.
        Though the material he developed has spread and oozed into ubiquitous use, with 44 billion pounds a year being produced to provide clothing, shelter, pipes, records, knickknacks, bumper stickers, luggage, toys and automobile interiors that make new cars smell the way they do, its discovery in 1928 did not generate immediate enthusiasm.
        Mr. Semon had arrived two years earlier at the B. F. Goodrich Company research lab in Akron and had been assigned to find ways that would keep rubber from aging and cracking. He worked on this project, but in his spare time he explored the qualities of vinyl polymers that had been known for decades as useless stuff.
        ''People thought of it as worthless back then,'' Mr. Semon recalled in an interview a few years ago. ''They'd throw it in the trash.''
        In his experimentation he concocted a powdery material with a consistency between that of sugar and flour. Combining chlorine derived from sea water and ethylene formed from petroleum, he thought it might serve as an adhesive for bonding rubber to metal. That never worked. But when he mixed the polyvinyl chloride powder in a solvent and heated the mixture at high temperatures, a gelatinous substance emerged that could be made in batches of greater or lesser hardness and elasticity.
        Mr. Semon found that the material, PVC for short, could easily be molded and that it was waterproof and fire-resistant and would not conduct electricity. Yet in the aftermath of the stock market crash of 1929, no one seemed interested in seeking out uses for the new plastic. Still, Mr. Semon kept looking for applications, and after watching his wife, Marjorie, make curtains, he realized that vinyl could be used as a fabric. Gradually he won over his superiors and by the early 30's the company was marketing the material under the trade name Koroseal. It soon appeared in shower curtains, umbrellas and raincoats. In 1933 he received a patent for the material.
        Today the vinyl he came up with is second only to polyethylene as the world's most widely used plastic and accounts for a $20 billion-a-year-industry.
        For his discovery, Mr. Semon was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 1995, joining Thomas Edison, Alexander Graham Bell and about 100 others. Then 97 years old, he mentioned in an interview several other innovations he had helped develop in the years until 1963 when he served as director of research for B. F. Goodrich. Notable among the innovations was Ameripol, a synthetic rubber introduced in 1940 after many years of research. Also called ''liberty rubber,'' it became a prototype for the petroleum-based materials that eventually replaced natural rubber in the manufacture of tires.
        During World War II, various forms of synthetic rubber, including many developed under Mr. Semon's supervision, came to replace the natural rubber needed for military equipment such as plane and Jeep tires and gas masks. Before the war, when synthetic rubber was not yet good enough to make tires, the monthly production of hard-rubber hair combs consumed enough rubber to outfit 375 six-wheel Army trucks with tires.
        In responding to questions about his career, Mr. Semon often took pleasure in noting one of his inventions that met with far less success than either vinyl or Ameripol -- synthetic rubber bubble gum. ''It looked just like ordinary gum, except that it would blow these great big bubbles,'' said the inventor, who failed to get the endorsement of his superiors for further development of this project. ''Unfortunately, B. F. Goodrich thought that this was a defect and that nobody would buy it.'' Conventional bubble gum was invented in 1928 by Walter Diemer, an accountant at the Fleer Chewing Gum Company in Philadelphia, who died last year.
        Waldo Lonsbury Semon was born on Sept. 10, 1898, in Demopolis, Ala., the son of a civil engineer who traveled widely building electrical generating plants. From the age of 7, Mr. Semon lived and went to school in the Pacific Northwest. He graduated from the University of Washington in 1920 and obtained a doctorate there in chemistry in 1923. He taught at the university until he was recruited by the Goodrich company.
        After his retirement from B. F. Goodrich, he served as a research professor at Kent State University.
        He is survived by two daughters, Connie Stelson of Atlanta and Beth Pake of Los Altos, Calif.
      