
        Charles R. Dawson, a longtime chemistry professor at Columbia University who played the leading role in the discovery of the toxic compounds in poison ivy, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 88 and lived in Wolfeboro.
        Dr. Dawson taught at Columbia from 1939 until he retired in 1979.
        In 1940, he and Dr. David Wasserman, a Columbia graduate student then, began to carry out experiments involving poison ivy. They collected 80 pounds of poison ivy bark, from which they extracted two teaspoons of the poisonous oil. The oil was used in preliminary chemical experiments, and then the scientists began work on developing methods of synthesizing compounds similar to those found in poison ivy oil.
        In 1948, Dr. Dawson told reporters that he and Dr. Wasserman had developed a synthetic compound resembling the chemical structure of poison ivy and producing the same physiological effects. At that time, the compound, which was considered better than poison ivy as an aid in the diagnosis and possible treatment of the effects of contact with the plant, was being tested by Dr. Harry Keil of the Skin and Center Unit of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital.
        In 1953, it was announced that Professor Dawson and his research students had isolated the toxic agent in the sap of poison ivy and had broken it down into four distinct parts.
        Dr. Dawson's son, John, a chemistry professor at the University of South Carolina, said yesterday that the least toxic of the four was one of a family of chemical compounds, alkyl catechols, which cause allergic responses in most people if they touch the skin.
        With researchers from the National Institutes of Health, Charles Dawson set about trying to discover a treatment or vaccine based on that least-toxic compound.
        In 1955, tests carried out at the University of Pennsylvania on a vaccine developed by Dr. Dawson for the prevention of the adverse effects of poison ivy were reported to have been successful. Thousands of volunteers had submitted to a series of injections intended to desensitize them to poison ivy.
        In 1956, it was reported that the poison ivy vaccine, which could be taken orally or injected, would soon be on the market. John Dawson said that it was his understanding that the vaccine had been on the market for some years and that eventually it had been supplanted as the chief anti-poison-ivy treatment by steroid-based anti-inflammatory ointments.
        Charles Dawson was born in Peterboro, N.H. He received a bachelor's degree in 1933 and a master's degree in chemistry in 1935, both from the University of New Hampshire, and a doctorate in 1938 from Columbia.
        In addition to his son, Dr. Dawson is survived by his wife, Dorothea Lockard; a daughter, Patricia Dawson Runner of Tiverton, R.I.; seven grandchildren; a sister, Ruth Taylor of Boise, Idaho, and a brother, Robert, of Leeds, Me.
      