
        Ed Peterson, an automotive service and parts supplier who invented an alarm system that beeps a warning when trucks and other heavy machinery are backing up, died on Wednesday at his home in Boise, Idaho. He was 78.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his son, Mark, said.
        Mr. Peterson and his brother Carl founded the Peterson Rebuild and Exchange Company, an auto parts supplier that is now known as Preco Inc. and specializes in the manufacture and sale of electronics and semiconductor equipment.
        Much of their business initially consisted of servicing and replacing engines at construction sites in remote areas of the Northwest. In the early 1960's, while visiting several dam sites, Ed Peterson noticed accidents in which workers were killed or injured by heavy equipment backing up on them.
        ''The flagmen weren't working,'' Mark Peterson said. ''So my father got together with some electronics engineers and developed the alarm.''
        Mr. Peterson sold the first reverse warning system to Morrison Knudsen, the engineering company based in Boise, in 1967.
        ''He was the first to do it, and he patented it, although some others were working on systems at the same time that had bells,'' Mark Peterson said.
        The company now sells about one million alarms, called the Bac-A-Larm, annually and is the world's largest supplier of the systems.
        Over the years, Mr. Peterson tinkered with other products, like collapsible luggage carriers, home security alarms and automotive electrical devices.
        His only other patented product that had worldwide success like the Bac-A-Larm was the Cordminder, a retractable telephone cord on a ball that attaches to the receiver. Millions have been sold over the years, his son said.
        Mr. Peterson was born on April 7, 1921, in Staten Island and grew up mostly in Brockton, Mass. He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II, piloting bombers over Europe and earning the Air Medal and the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        In addition to his son and his brother, Mr. Peterson is survived by two daughters, Ingrid Peterson of Seattle and Kristina Peterson of Boise, and two granddaughters.
      