
        Richard Kobler, an Austrian-born electronics engineer who devised the first ''talking typewriter'' and scores of other contrivances after being resettled in New York 60 years ago by the actress Gloria Swanson, died on May 8 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 90 and lived in nearby Delray Beach.
        Mr. Kobler did much of his inventing at Thomas A. Edison Industries and the Edison Research Laboratory in West Orange, N.J. He patented the original Televoice, a remote-controlled dictation system whose offspring spread worldwide.
        In 1960, he led a engineering group that developed the research instrument that was turned into the talking typewriter. A computerized learning system, it taught reading skills to autistic and retarded children. Another adaptation introduced in 1966 taught young children to read, typewrite and take dictation.
        He also invented Rapidial, the first telephone to store and automatically redial frequently used numbers.
        Mr. Kobler is survived by his wife and longtime collaborator, Dr. Edith Kobler; two sons and a daughter from an earlier marriage, Arthur, of Hong Kong, Raymond, of San Francisco, and Linda of Erie, Pa., and four grandchildren.
        Born in Vienna, he was educated at the Technical University there. He worked in private laboratories and an engineering practice, and by 1937 opened his own patent office.
        With the Nazis in power, he suffered arrests but made his way to Zurich and Paris. Through friends, Swanson, a leading box-office draw in the 1920's, learned of him and three other bright Austrian colleagues who were at risk. She and her third husband, the Marquis Henri de la Falaise de la Coudraye, a French nobleman, used their influence with French officials to spirit the young men out of France just before war broke out in Europe.
        To accommodate her four charges, Swanson in 1939 set up an engineering firm, Multiprises, with headquarters in Manhattan and a factory in Queens. Under Mr. Kobler's management, it offered products and services in the four men's specialities: sound recording, metallurgy and plastics.
        It lasted until America's entry into the war, when the four Austrians left the company to work for the Government and large laboratories with big military contracts. Swanson, who died in 1983, described her encounter with Mr. Kobler in her autobiography, ''Swanson on Swanson.''
        ''At 40 therefore,'' she wrote, ''I was a factory owner, something I had always wanted to be, surrounded by brilliant engineers, the sort of men whose minds had always excited me, and I might have made a considerable fortune had not the war come along.''
      