
        Charles Warren, a British physician who tried three times to scale Mount Everest in the 1930's, died on March 30 in his home in Essex, England. He was 92.
        Dr. Warren brought the sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay to the attention of British mountaineers. Mr. Norgay made history in 1953 when he and Edmund Hillary became the first men to reach Everest's peak.
        Dr. Warren, whose death was first reported last weekend, himself came to the attention of those organizing the British Everest expeditions after a successful climb in 1933 to the summit of Bhagirathi III, in the Gangatori district of the Himalayas.
        His initial attempt to reach the top of Everest, in 1935 led by the explorer Eric Shipton, was notable mainly for the discovery of the body of Maurice Wilson, a soldier-turned-mystic who believed prayer and dedication would lead him to the top of the world. Dr. Warren helped bury Mr. Wilson in a crevasse.
        That first failed mission was also noteworthy because Dr. Warren, the physician for the expedition, was impressed by Mr. Norgay and invited him to stay in the doctor's home in Felsted in Essex. Mr. Norgay served as a porter for Dr. Warren on all three of his attempts at Everest.
        Dr. Warren, a cautious climber, also served as physician to British expeditions that were turned back, mostly by weather, in 1936 and 1938.
        Dr. Warren was born in London and educated at Eastbourne College and Emmanuel College, Cambridge, where he studied medicine. He specialized in pediatrics, helping develop ultraviolet treatments infants suffering from jaundice.
        His wife died before him, and he leaves no immediate survivors.
        Though Dr. Warren never tried to climb Everest again after his three attempts, he kept scaling mountains around the world, even when he was past 70. A hike to the top of Cuillin Ridge on the Isle of Skye in Scotland when he was 72 and his last rock climb, in the Lake District on his 80th birthday, were both capped with champagne toasts.
      