
        Standish Forde Medina Jr., a leading trial lawyer who made a name for himself by resolving disputes so that clients could avoid trial, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Medina, who had residences in Manhattan, Westhampton, N.Y., and Washington, Conn., was 58.
        The cause was leukemia, according to his widow, Kathryn Bach Medina, division vice president and executive editor at Random House.
        At 6 feet 3 inches tall, with a resonant voice and a playful wit, Mr. Medina, known as Forde to friends, was a striking figure. ''He was big, enthusiastic and lusty in the most gentlemanly way,'' said Barbara Paul Robinson, a friend and a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton, a 450-member law firm in Manhattan.
        He specialized in the toughest cases in the often arcane world of securities and class-action law. Euromoney magazine listed him in 1997 as one of the world's 600 leading litigators. ''He loved the law,'' said Martin F. Evans, the firm's presiding partner. ''People would come into the office early in the morning  and he would already have analyzed the previous day's proceedings and prepared detailed to-do lists.''
        Among colleagues, Mr. Medina was known for bringing order to a years-long complex of insurance company cases in which policyholders accused New York Life, Phoenix, Transamerica and Hancock of unfair sales practices. Mr. Medina, representing the insurance companies, helped design a process that brought automatic relief for some policyholders and accelerated arbitration for others, thus avoiding lengthy litigation for all parties.
        The law ran in the family. Mr. Medina was the grandson of Harold R. Medina, a Federal judge for more than three decades, who was best known for his handling of the trial of 11 Communist leaders in the 1940's. Like his grandfather; uncle, Harold Jr., and father, Standish, Mr. Medina graduated from Princeton University and Columbia Law School.
        While at Columbia, from which Mr. Medina graduated magna cum laude in 1965, he was a Kent Scholar and a member of the Law Review. He joined Debevoise & Plimpton in 1966 and became a partner in 1973.
        With his wife, Mr. Medina became known as a gregarious guest and tennis partner.
        ''He was very funny with my husband and knew there was something behind that reserve,'' said Lucinda Franks, the author, who is married to Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney. ''Forde would always say on the tennis court, 'And in this corner, the Honorable, the Learned, District Attorney Robert Morgenthau, and over here we have humble Forde Medina, only a lawyer, but he'll do what he can.''
        Mr. Medina is survived by his wife of 31 years and their son, Nathaniel.
      