
        Oliver Reed, whose red-faced exuberance brought earthiness to film appearances as varied as a swashbuckling musketeer, a brutal Dickensian burglar and his best-known role as a coal mine owner's son in Ken Russell's version of ''Women in Love,'' died on Sunday while filming a movie in Malta. He was 61.
        In what would have been his 100th film or television role, Mr. Reed was appearing in ''The Gladiator,'' a movie directed by Ridley Scott and produced by Steven Spielberg. He was playing Proximo, a gladiator trainer.
        Agence France-Press reported that Mr. Reed fell ill in a bar in Valetta, Malta, accompanied by his wife, Josephine, and friends.
        The cause of death for Mr. Reed, who was pronounced dead before he reached the hospital, was not immediately known and an autopsy is scheduled for early this week. Funeral arrangements were not announced.
        A glowering, stocky man renowned for telling stories about his fondness for pubs and fisticuffs, Mr. Reed gained his widest prominence as the boorish Gerald Crich, who falls in love with a schoolteacher, played by Glenda Jackson, in Mr. Russell's 1969 film adaptation of the D. H. Lawrence novel ''Women in Love.''
        The film also attracted attention for the then-shocking nude wrestling scene between Mr. Reed and the character played by Alan Bates.
        Mr. Reed became a favorite of Mr. Russell's, starring or appearing in such films as ''The Devils'' (1971),  ''Lisztomania'' (1975) and ''Tommy'' (1975).
        Ms. Jackson, who won an Academy Award for her role opposite Mr. Reed in ''Women in Love,'' told SKY News in London on Sunday that Mr. Reed was ''immaculately professional.'' She added, ''I am very sorry he has gone, but I think he probably went the way he would have wished.''
        Mr. Reed was also memorable as the brutal Bill Sikes in ''Oliver!,'' the 1968 movie-musical version of Dickens's ''Oliver Twist.'' It was directed by his uncle, Sir Carol Reed, who also directed the 1949 classic ''The Third Man.''
        Mr. Reed's powerful physique gave an unusual mystique to Athos in Richard Lester's 1973 film version of ''The Three Musketeers.''
        Mr. Reed was born on Feb. 13, 1938, in south London. He held various jobs, according to Agence France-Press, including a bouncer for a strip club, sparring partner for boxers, and a factory worker.
      