
        Harry L. Kavetas, the chief financial officer who helped lead the Eastman Kodak Company through a huge financial upheaval that involved sweeping job cuts over the last few years, died yesterday at his home in Rochester. He was 61.
        The cause was an apparent heart attack, the company said.
        Although he had been with Kodak only since 1994, Mr. Kavetas was credited with helping to engineer the strategies that helped the company dig out from under a huge debt load and stem a precipitous drop in its share of the American film market. As part of the management team of George M. C. Fisher, Kodak's chief executive, Mr. Kavetas helped the company capitalize on the growth of digital photography. He was also deeply involved in Kodak's wrenching decision, announced in 1997, to cut 19,000 jobs.
        ''It's terrible to lose someone of Harry's quality at a time when the company has so many balls in the air,'' said B. Alexander Henderson, an analyst who follows Kodak for Prudential Securities Research.
        On joining Kodak, Mr. Kavetas began finding ways to pay down more than $5 billion in debt from Kodak's 1988 purchase of Sterling Drug.
        He helped spearhead Kodak's decision to divest itself of huge chunks of its health business and, just this year, to sell its copier business. He was also very involved in the decision, announced in 1997, to pare as many as 19,000 jobs -- a decision that would be painful for any company but that was excruciating for Kodak, which had run so paternalistic an organization that its nickname in its home town, Rochester, was ''Great Yellow Father.''
        Mr. Kavetas, a native of Springfield, Ill., had a bachelor's degree in finance and economics from the University of Illinois.
        Before joining Kodak, he spent 32 years with the International Business Machines Corporation, rising steadily up the ranks. When he took early retirement from there in December 1993, he was chief executive of the I.B.M. Credit Corporation. Kodak hired him two months later.
        Mr. Kavetas was elected a Kodak executive vice president in September 1994, just seven months after joining the company. In May 1997 he was elected to Kodak's board.
        Mr. Kavetas is survived by his wife, Sue; two daughters, Betsy Kavetas and Kathy Rothchild; a son, James, and three grandchildren.
      