
        William Woodward 3d, whose society family was known as much for its violent deaths as for its wealth, died Sunday on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a 14-story plunge from his apartment. He was 54.
        A police official said that Mr. Woodward had been under psychiatric care and no foul play was suspected.
        Mr. Woodward, who was briefly a newspaper reporter and twice ran unsuccessfully for elective office, came from a family haunted by well-publicized deaths.
        His mother killed his father, William Woodward Jr., then later killed herself shortly before the publication of a book by Truman Capote that gave a fictionalized account of the father's death. Mr. Woodward's brother killed himself by jumping  from a hotel.
        His father's death came in 1955,  when he was shot dead, at 35, in a bedroom doorway on his estate in Oyster Bay, on Long Island. His wife, Ann, said she had mistaken him for a prowler. A grand jury found that no crime had been committed.
        Mr. Woodward twice ran for office. In 1981, he spent more than $100,000 of his own money during a Democratic primary campaign for an at-large City Council seat from Manhattan.
        Asked by a reporter what he hoped to bring to the Council, Mr. Woodward pulled out a piece of paper on which he had written: ''Boldness, innovativeness, cost-consciousness and independence.''
        The 1981 primary was canceled when the United States Justice Department refused to allow the vote. It was uncertain when the Justice Department would approve new election districts for the city.
        After the cancellation of the election, the stolid Mr. Woodward said,  ''I must say, the only thing that cheers me about this is not having to stand at another subway stop.''
        He had tried in 1978 for a State Senate seat. He aided a more successful candidate, Hugh L. Carey, and after Mr. Carey became Governor, he appointed Mr. Woodward  Deputy Banks Superintendent.
        From 1968 to 1971, Mr. Woodward was a reporter at The New York Post. He was a founder and the publisher of More, a journalism review.
        He attended Le Rosey, a preparatory school in Switzerland, and Harvard College, where he was editor of  The Crimson. He was also a graduate of the Harvard School of Business Administration.
        Mr. Woodward's survivors include his wife, Lisa, and a daughter, Elizabeth.
      