
        Americo Paredes, a writer, folklorist and one of the founders of the Chicano studies movement in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at Specialty Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 83.
        At the time of his death Mr. Paredes was professor emeritus of English and anthropology at the University of Texas at Austin. His best-known book, ''With His Pistol in His Hand: A Border Ballad and Its Hero,'' is considered by folklore scholars to be a groundbreaking work in folklore and Chicano studies.
        Mr. Paredes was born in 1915, in Brownsville, Tex., to a family with roots deep in what he called the Lower Border, that area of Texas along the Rio Grande from the two Laredos to the river's mouth at the Gulf of Mexico. Bounded by desert and the sea, this isolated cluster of towns and villages along the river had been the heart of the old Spanish province of Nuevo Santander, colonized in 1749 by Jose De Escandon.  Mr. Paredes's family on his father's side came to the area in 1580; his mother's family arrived in the mid-19th century.
        Mr. Paredes insisted that a distinctive culture evolved where ''the two cultures mingled and clashed,'' and he devoted his scholarly life to exploring the folklore and culture of the area. His work, the folklorist Richard Bauman has written, vindicates the premise ''that a deep, detailed, nuanced understanding of the local will illuminate and inspire a more global vision.''
        He started writing poetry as a teen-ager and some of his poems were published in La Prensa, a widely read Spanish-language newspaper published in San Antonio. During the Depression years he worked as a reporter for The Brownsville Herald. With his first wife, Chelo Silva, a well-known singer in Mexico and South Texas, he also was part of a group that performed traditional music for parties and gatherings in the Rio Grande Valley. Mr. Paredes and Miss Silva were divorced in the 1930's.
        Even as a reporter, Mr. Paredes wrote poetry and essays about Chicano culture. He also wrote a novel, ''George Washington Gomez,'' but the book remained in manuscript form until 1990, when it was published by Arte Publico Press in Houston.
        Mr. Paredes enlisted in the Army in 1941, and worked in the Pacific theater as a correspondent for Stars and Stripes. After the war, he stayed in the Far East for five years, covering Japanese war crimes trials for Stars and Stripes and later doing public relations work for the American Red Cross in Japan. In Tokyo, in 1948, he married Amelia Nagamine, daughter of an Argentine diplomat.
        He returned to Texas in 1950 and enrolled at the University of Texas at Austin. The first Mexican-American ever to receive a Ph.D. at the University of Texas, he taught at the university from 1958 until his retirement in 1984.
        ''With His Pistol in His Hand,'' his doctoral dissertation, is both a scholarly investigation into the evolution of a popular ballad about a Mexican-American fugitive named Gregorio Cortes and a revisionist retelling of the 1901 incident that inspired the ballad.
        It would not have been published, Mr. Paredes told The Texas Observer, without the aid of two influential scholars at the university, Robert Stephenson and Stith Thompson, who  became Mr. Paredes's champions on a campus that had never been particularly welcoming to Mexican-American students or scholars.
        The book was published in 1958 and for nearly a decade after its publication remained something of an underground classic. That began to change in the 1960's, when Chicano activists at Berkeley and other California institutions discovered it.  They recognized its significance as an alternative telling of American history and sociology. Today, ''With His Pistol in His Hand'' is in its ninth printing.
        Mr. Paredes, who was co-founder and first director of the University of Texas Mexican American Studies program as well as a founder of the Center for Intercultural Studies of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, published numerous articles, essays, books and poetry during his nearly 30-year career at the University of Texas. He published five books after his retirement.
        In addition to ''With His Pistol in His Hand'' and the novel ''George Washington Gomez,'' Mr. Paredes's books include ''Folktales of Mexico'' (1970), ''A Texas-Mexican Cancionero'' (1976), ''Between Two Worlds,'' a book of poems (1991), ''Uncle Remus con Chile'' (1992), ''Folklore and Culture on the Texas-Mexican Border'' (1993) and ''The Hammon and the Beans and Other Stories'' (1994).
        Mr. Paredes won a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1962 and received the Charles Frankel Prize from the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1989. In 1991, he was awarded the Aguila Azteca (Aztec Eagle) medal, the highest honor given a foreigner by the Mexican Government.
        He is survived by his wife; three sons, Americo, Alan and Vicente; and a daughter, Julia.
      