
        Louis R. Ross, a former vice chairman of the Ford Motor Company who oversaw the introduction in 1985 of the Ford Taurus, which became one of its most successful cars and helped the company recover from low profits and quality problems, died on Sunday in Naples, Fla. He was 67.
        Neither the funeral home nor the company knew the cause, and family members could not be reached.
        The Taurus, which was conceived in 1979 and developed for about $3 billion, was a huge gamble for Ford because it was to be the basis for many of Ford's cars into the 1990's.
        Even though the car had a troubled introduction, it became a hit and helped Ford make gains in the large-car segment that had long been dominated by General Motors. Such cars are more profitable because they are loaded with options and command higher prices.
        Mr. Ross, a low-key but blunt-speaking executive, had to work through numerous delays in the introduction the Taurus. It hit the height of its sales campaign in December, considered a bad time to sell cars when people are focused on holiday spending.
        Nevertheless, he eventually had the satisfaction of seeing Ford surpass General Motors in profitability in the late 1980's as car buyers embraced the sleeker European styling and front-wheel drive of the Taurus.
        Mr. Ross was born and raised in Detroit. He attended Wayne State University and received a master's degree in business administration from Michigan State University. He joined Ford in 1955 and made his way up by showing technical skill and management ability.
        He was named the product planning manager of the Thunderbird in 1963 and then worked in various positions where he was in charge of quality control.
        He was well suited to deal with the upheaval of the auto industry in the wake of a surge in gasoline prices in the 1970's after the Arab oil boycott. It helped foreign car makers penetrate the United States market with their smaller and more efficient vehicles.
        The domestic car makers like Ford had to scramble to design and produce more fuel-efficient cars and bring in innovations such as front-wheel drive.
        Ford was particularly hard hit, and in the early 1980's Henry Ford 2d, the chairman, took drastic steps. He dismissed Lee A. Iacocca, Ford's president, and eventually retired himself and turned the reins over to a new management team headed by Philip Caldwell.
        During this turbulent time, Mr. Ross was named as head of North American operations in February 1985 and worked on improving quality. He held the view that Detroit auto makers could no longer turn out poorly assembled cars and have their dealers work out the bugs because overseas car makers, particularly in Japan, put the emphasis on getting it right in the factory.
        He was named executive vice president and chief technical officer in 1991 and was promoted to vice chairman in 1993.
        He retired in 1996. He served as a trustee of Oakland University.
        He is survived by his wife, Janice, of Naples; a brother, James; a sister, Dorothy, and two sons, Stephen and Philip.
      