
        Leon Hess, who took over his family's bankrupt fuel-oil business during the Depression and built it into a major petroleum company, but was perhaps best known as the steadfast owner of the long-foundering New York Jets football team, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85.
        The cause of death was complications from a blood disease, the team said in a statement. Mr. Hess was hospitalized in April for a broken hip, returned home briefly and then re-entered the hospital.
        Lean and energetic, with a kindly look but a growly voice and exceedingly shy of publicity, Mr. Hess forged the Amerada Hess Corporation, running it with a strong personal touch. Amerada Hess, based in New York, was the foundation of Mr. Hess's personal fortune, estimated at $720 million last October by Forbes magazine, which listed him among the 400 richest Americans.
        But for most people, he was identified with the Jets as their sole owner for more than a decade, always expecting them to succeed but usually watching them stumble. He was emotionally tied to the team while remaining proud of his business roots.
        ''In 1933, during the Depression, I started out with one small 615-gallon truck delivering home heating oil in Asbury Park,'' he recounted at a stockholders' meeting in 1995 at which he announced he was stepping down as chairman and chief executive officer of Amerada Hess.
        That did not halt his ritual of arriving at the office every day at 9, even though his son, John B. Hess, took charge of the company. His son, a New Yorker, survives him, as do his wife, Norma, of New York; two daughters, Marlene Hess of New York and Connie Williams of Haverford, Pa., and seven grandchildren.
        One day in 1995, Mr. Hess, in a rare appearance before the cameras that he abhorred, made a startling announcement. He had dismissed Coach Pete Carroll after the team went 6-10 in 1994 and hired Rich Kotite. He explained his actions on a stage at the Jets' training complex: ''I'm 80 years old. I want results now.''
        It was only the second time he had held a news conference as the Jets' owner. Afterward, he confided to a reporter, ''The team quit, and that's one thing I won't stand for.''
        He made one more impressive appearance before the cameras: when he brought in Bill Parcells as coach and chief of football operations in 1997 after the Jets had finished 1-15 under Kotite. Parcells brought about a quick and dramatic change in the team's fortunes, and last season the Jets won their division and advanced to the American Football Conference championship game.
        Prominent Operator In Many Spheres
        Mr. Hess operated in several spheres: the American business scene, the commercial world of the Middle East, the world of Democratic Party insiders and the behind-the-scenes boardroom meetings of National Football League club owners.
        His father, Mores, had been trained in Lithuania to be a kosher butcher. But when he came to America and settled in New Jersey, he ran a fuel-delivery company. His son, Leon, was born March 14, 1914, in Asbury Park, N.J.
        Mores Hess's business went bankrupt in 1933, but Leon, while still driving the delivery truck, reorganized the company and oversaw its growth, employing a signature trait: boldness. He built a terminal using old tankers in Perth Amboy, N.J., and aggressively underbid competitors seeking Federal oil contracts.
        In World War II, rising to the rank of major, he had a key, if little-known, position as petroleum supply officer for Gen. George S. Patton. The speed of Patton's tank attacks was in good measure dependent on fuel that Major Hess provided.
        Using innovative techniques after the war, which included building his own centralized storage systems, Mr. Hess made inroads on the share of the petroleum business held by the giant companies. By the late 1950's, he had built the first Hess refinery, and he opened a chain of Hess gasoline stations in 1960.
        There have been traffic jams at those stations every Christmas season since 1964, when the company began a holiday tradition of selling toy tanker trucks. The early models have become valuable collectibles, and each year's edition sells out quickly.
        Mr. Hess took the company public in 1963. As his business grew, he enlarged his contacts in politics. His friends included Senator Henry M. Jackson of Washington and Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall. Mr. Hess contributed $225,000 to Mr. Jackson's attempt to capture the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1972.
        He was married in 1947 to Norma Wilentz. Her father was the former Attorney General David Wilentz of New Jersey, who prosecuted Bruno Richard Hauptmann in the Lindbergh baby kidnapping case and had been influential nationally in the Democratic Party.
        Mr. Hess was also one of the New York area's foremost cultural patrons. He was a benefactor of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and a major contributor to charitable causes, including the Boys Clubs of America.
        Mr. Hess continued to expand his business with his contested but successful takeover in 1969 of the Amerada Petroleum Corporation, one of the top producers of crude oil. That was coupled with his decision earlier in the 1960's to build what was then the world's largest oil refinery on St. Croix in the United States Virgin Islands.
        Amerada Hess took advantage of tax benefits as a result of its Caribbean base and enjoyed status as a foreign refiner that allowed it to use comparatively low-cost foreign-flag vessels to ship oil to the East Coast. But the company also received subsidies from the Energy Department as a domestic refinery. That dual status angered Mr. Hess's competitors.
        His widening circle of contacts included the Shah of Iran and the rulers of Libya, with whom he personally conducted business.
        Jets Brought Wealth, But Rarely Success
        Mr. Hess was unable to operate with the same measure of success in professional football. The Jets did bring him a second fortune. His original investment in the team was $250,000 in 1963, when he and four other partners salvaged the failed franchise then known as the Titans. In 1984 he bought out his last remaining partner, and in the 1990's he saw his investment blossom into one of the sports world's most valuable franchises. It is expected to fetch at least $500 million if it is sold.
        The year he took full control of the Jets, Mr. Hess, who had fought for years to get New York City to upgrade Shea Stadium in Queens, took the team across the state line to Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J.
        Mr. Hess had also been unhappy over the team's agreement with the Mets, its co-tenants at Shea, who received the parking revenue from Jets games as well as a percentage of the football team's concession sales. New ownership of the Mets tried to redo the contract, but Mr. Hess tired of the city's delay in presenting a plan to revamp the stadium for football. One of his sore points was the condition of the bathrooms. He prided himself on neatness, evident to the public in the cleanliness of the bathrooms in his Hess gas stations, painted green and white, the same colors his Jets wore.
        But while Mr. Hess spoke in pained tones of having to move the team, his onetime political ally, Mayor Edward I. Koch, was not impressed. Shortly after Mr. Hess's decision to move the team, the Mayor said that had been the Hess strategy all along.
        ''Billionaires aren't stupid,'' the Mayor said.
        Mr. Hess asked his front office to apprise him of all major moves on the Jets. But even though he met with the coaching staff before the annual draft of college players, he never interfered in the choices.
        He rarely attended practices but was at every home game, usually sitting in his box at Giants Stadium with the former Gov. Thomas Kean of New Jersey. There, he suffered through the defeats that marked the Jets through the end of the 1980's and most of the 1990's. Another friend, Bob Tisch, the chairman of the Loews Corporation, who was to become co-owner of the Giants, remembered Mr. Hess as ''someone who suffered when the team was down.''
        ''He got emotional,'' Mr. Tisch said.
        Loyalty was among the traits that Mr. Hess admired and demanded, in an oil-company employee and in a coach or player. When Dennis Byrd, a Jets defensive player, suffered what was feared to be permanent paralysis following a collision with a teammate in a 1992 game, Mr. Hess repeatedly visited the hospital and assured Byrd of lifelong income and medical help if necessary. Coaches and players found that Mr. Hess's private jet was available to them if family emergencies arose.
        But he never wanted the public to see those sides of himself. When Business Week magazine prepared a 4,000-word article on him in 1979, he declined to be interviewed.
        Uneasy in Spotlight, Eager for Victory
        His first news conference was believed to have occurred in 1988, when he presided over the retirement of the Jets' longtime president, Jim Kensil. Mr. Hess did not step before the cameras again until 1995, with the hiring of Kotite as coach.
        In a startling departure in 1996, he consented to an interview with a group of sportswriters after the team's draft. He fielded only four questions, answering each politely but with little passion.
        Finally, he said, ''This is the only exciting off season we've had for years.'' And almost making fun of his own reputation for reticence, he added, ''That's as much as you've ever gotten out of me.''
        His team was coming off its worst season to that point, a 3-13 campaign that extended its lengthy futility. At the time, the Jets were the only pro football team in existence in the 1970's that had not finished first since then. The Jets' glory was always in the past. They won the Super Bowl when Hess was a part-owner, with a huge upset of the Baltimore Colts following the 1968 season. They finished first again in the American Football League's Eastern Division in 1969, but had not won any title since then.
        They seemed to have a chance in 1986, when the team surged to a record of 10-1. Five games remained. A reporter called to ask Mr. Hess about the team's success.
        ''Call me when the season's over and I promise I'll talk to you then,'' he said. ''My heart's been broken too many times.''
        And it was again. The Jets lost their final five games.
        Repeated frustrations finally led to his call for Parcells in 1997.
        In good times and bad, Mr. Hess made his annual Thanksgiving Day visits to his team a ritual. He would show up on the practice field sideline in the morning, often dressed in a knitted green Jets hat. His grandchildren often accompanied him. He had one rule during these visits: no pictures of the family. He would sit on a folding chair after shaking hands with the coaches and players who came over to say hello. These were moments when it did not seem to matter if the team was doing well or badly. He was a happy team owner with his family on Thanksgiving.
        But he was denied the ultimate goal, with the Jets failing to return to the Super Bowl during his tenure as the sole owner of the team. When he met with his players on Thanksgiving Day 1998, the Jets having finally become a strong team, he was asked how close his team was to a Super Bowl.
        He replied: ''I dream about it all the time.''
      