
        Myles Tierney, the Associated Press newsman who died Sunday after being shot by a Sierra Leone rebel while covering the wars, famines and riots of West Africa, was living precisely the life he had sought, according to his mother, Hanne Tierney of Manhattan.
        He was 34 and was stationed in Nairobi, Kenya.
        At the time of his death, he and two other A.P. journalists were being escorted by soldiers of a West African peacekeeping coalition into downtown Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, where a civil war is raging. A rebel fighter approached their station wagon and opened fire, killing Mr. Tierney instantly; the other journalists were wounded, one seriously, the other superficially.
        According to several journalists and friends, Mr. Tierney loved traveling through remote and inhospitable areas, videotaping the chaos and massacres, and transmitting the news to London and New York, where it was distributed to television stations throughout the world.
        ''He loved to be on the road,'' said Jean-Marc Bouju, an A.P. photographer who worked with Mr. Tierney in West Africa. ''He could get as excited doing a feature on Somalia as a war in Sierra Leone.''
        But wars were more plentiful, said Karin Davies, an A.P. reporter who also worked with Mr. Tierney. ''Africa is difficult,'' she said. ''We saw the grimmest things. Rwanda in 1994 -- the genocide.''
        Mr. Tierney, his mother said, always loved reading and writing and adventure. He grew up in SoHo in Manhattan, ''a real New York kid,'' said Mrs. Tierney, a performance artist who is divorced from his father, Myles Tierney, a mathematics professor, for whom he was named.
        In addition to his mother and father, Mr. Tierney is survived by a  sister, Lorin Tierney, and two brothers, David Guthrie and Shawn Lane.
        After some time at Rutgers University, he dropped out to concentrate on becoming a video producer. A few years later, he moved to Berlin, just before the destruction of the Wall, and survived by selling freelance news articles to the A.P. and other news organizations. In 1994, the A.P. hired him to produce news video, and in 1997 it assigned him to the Nairobi bureau.
        The biggest struggle in covering West Africa was traveling to war zones and then finding gasoline to power the generator to transmit the videotapes on satellite phones.
        Once, in a village in Congo, he persuaded 30 local people to lift his  Land-Rover, which was stuck in the mud, Ms. Davies said.
        As one of the first TV journalists to master new, sophisticated electronic equipment, he was able to write and edit in the field. ''He'd be in the middle of nowhere,'' Ms. Davies said, ''no electricity, no running water,  and he'd been sitting in the mud hut piecing together a story.''
      