
        Dirk Bogarde, who transformed himself from Britain's top matinee idol into a serious actor at the age of 40 and became an international star, died on Saturday at his home in London. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported, quoting a nephew, Brock Van den Bogaerde. The actor, who was knighted in 1992, suffered a stroke in 1996 and had been under 24-hour nursing care since last May, the A.P. said.
        Nicknamed the British Rock Hudson, Sir Dirk was Britain's leading movie star during the 1950's, when he starred in adventure films and lightweight comedies, among them an immensely popular series that included ''Doctor in the House'' (1954), ''Doctor at Sea'' (1956), ''Doctor at Large'' (1957) and ''Doctor in Distress'' (1963).
        In the 1960's, Sir Dirk gave a series of brilliant performances as intelligent, complex and often morally compromised men in such movies as ''The Servant,'' ''King and Country,'' ''Darling'' and ''Accident.''
        In 1961, Sir Dirk celebrated his freedom after 14 years as a contract player with the Rank Organization by starring as a repressed homosexual lawyer who defies a gang of blackmailers in Basil Dearden's ''Victim.'' Excluding an early bit part, ''Victim'' was his 34th film.
        Homosexuality was then a taboo subject and a criminal offense, but his performance brought acclaim to the handsome, debonair actor -- who had been known in England as ''the idol of the Odeons,'' the chain of theaters owned by Rank.
        ''For the first time I was playing my own age,'' he told a reporter in 1965. ''At Rank, the fixed rule was that I had to look pretty. 'Victim' ended all that nonsense.''
        Two years later Sir Dirk found another role to match his talents -- a sinister valet who corrupts his upper-class master in ''The Servant'' (1963). The second of five movies that Sir Dirk made with the American expatriate director Joseph Losey and the first of two written for him by Harold Pinter, ''The Servant'' was a psychologically complex portrait of malice.
        His performance as the cunning but outwardly servile servant won Sir Dirk the first of two British Academy Awards.
        He won again in 1965 as a television reporter who leaves his wife and children for a party girl, Julie Christie, in John Schlesinger's ''Darling.''
        Before ''Victim,'' Sir Dirk had approached the director David Lean in hope of being considered for one of his films. ''I think Dirk's great,'' Mr. Lean told someone, ''but I want an actor, not a movie star.''
        ''That hurt a little,'' Sir Dirk said after his success in ''The Servant.'' ''So I decided to hell with the glamour-boy bit and got into the field of character acting.''
        The new career that began at 40 for Sir Dirk led him to work with many of the major European directors. For Luchino Visconti, he played the doomed composer von Aschenbach in the film version of Thomas Mann's novella ''Death in Venice'' (1971); for Alain Resnais, he was a lawyer in ''Providence'' (1977); for Rainer Werner Fassbinder, he was a Russian emigre in ''Despair'' (1978), and for Bertrand Tavernier, he was a dying father in ''Daddy Nostalgia'' (1990), his final film.
        Sir Dirk did little acting after 1978, but published five novels and chronicled his life in seven well-received memoirs.
        He was born Derek Niven Van den Bogaerde in London on March 28, 1921. His father, who was half-Dutch, was the first art editor of The Times of London; his mother, an actress before her marriage, was the daughter of an artist and actor, Forrest Niven. The picture that Sir Dirk painted in his first autobiography, ''A Postillion Struck by Lightning'' (1977), was of a cloudless childhood in Sussex and distant, elegant parents who left the rearing of young Dirk and his sister Elizabeth to a beloved nanny.
        Reticent in print as well as shy in person, Sir Dirk drew a veil over his parents until a much later memoir, ''Cleared for Take Off'' (1995), when he revealed that his mother was an alcoholic ''with a liver like an Aegean sponge'' and his father capable of ruinous cruelty.
        By his mid-teens, Sir Dirk had decided to be an actor, although he was a talented painter and won a scholarship at 16 to the Royal College of Art. Instead, he put his skill to work painting sets at a theater in suburban London. He was 19 and had graduated to walk-ons and bit roles when World War II intervened.
        As an officer in Army Intelligence, he spent his days interpreting aerial photographs of bombing raids and his rest periods painting the devastation of Europe. He carried his sketchbook up the beach on D-Day.
        Discharged as a major in 1946, Sir Dirk was an overnight success when he starred as the troubled son of a working-class family in the play ''Power Without Glory,'' in 1947.
        After signing with the Rank Organization, Sir Dirk was thrown into three movies a year, often playing a criminal or someone suspected of a crime. He won good reviews as the neurotic pianist who commits suicide in ''Quartet'' (1949). He was to earn even better reviews as a young killer in ''The Blue Lamp'' (1950), directed by Mr. Dearden.
        In 1953, Sir Dirk made the list of Britain's top 10 box-office stars. His willingness to play a young hoodlum befriended by a psychiatrist (Alexander Knox) in Mr. Losey's film noir ''The Sleeping Tiger'' (1954) gave Mr. Losey afresh start in England after he fled a subpoena from the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        After Sir Dirk's performance as the bumbling young Simon Sparrow in ''Doctor in the House,'' he was England's top box-office star in 1955, 1957, 1958 and 1959.
        Throughout his career, Sir Dirk resisted offers from Hollywood. But he did go to Hollywood once, to play the composer Franz Liszt in the mediocre ''Song Without End'' (1960).
        In 1963, in London, he starred opposite Judy Garland in her last film, the musical ''I Could Go On Singing.'' His other American films -- ''The Fixer'' (1968) and ''Justine'' (1969) -- were made abroad.
        Waylaid by fame and often resenting it, Sir Dirk retreated from the stage, from easy stardom and, finally, from England.
        In 1969, he bought a house in the south of France and lived there with his manager and companion Anthony Forward. Mr. Forward, who was formerly married to the actress Glynis Johns, shared Sir Dirk's life for 40 years.
        After Mr. Forward's death, Sir Dirk lived quietly in a small London apartment. Information on survivors was not immediately available.
      