
        Dr. Heinz L. Fraenkel-Conrat, whose research in biochemistry allowed scientists to peer into the innermost workings of viruses, died on April 10 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Berkeley.
        Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat, a professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, made scientific history in the mid-1950's, when he dismantled a tobacco mosaic virus and then put it back together again, still living.
        The accomplishment garnered Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat, who disdained publicity, considerable attention along the lines of ''life created in a test tube,'' recounted in the 1959 book ''Virus Hunters,'' by Greer Williams. But for scientists, the value of Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat's work lay in its proof that the genetic information controlling viral reproduction was contained in the RNA at the core of each piece of a virus.
        This was not an entirely happy discovery for Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat, who had sided with those scientists who believed that the tobacco virus's infectivity was contained it its protein coat.
        ''I'm a protein chemist,'' he told Mr. Williams when he was being interviewed for the book. ''I hoped protein was the determining factor. It was against my personal inclinations to have a greater interest in nucleic acid.''
        While other scientists before Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat had taken viruses apart in an effort to understand how they worked, he was the first to put one back together -- in effect, making the world's first synthetic virus. His goal was to determine which part of the virus infected tobacco plants.
        To do this, according to ''Virus Hunters,'' required some exacting work. The scientist used a common household detergent to strip away the hides of one set of viruses, and a different solution to remove the cores of another set. Then he took the virus parts up to the greenhouse on the top of his laboratory and, keeping them separate, rubbed them on the leaves of tobacco plants.
        None of the plants were infected.
        When Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat mixed the two solutions together, however, he found that the virus re-formed. And when he placed the newly whole virus on tobacco plants, they became infected. (Later, he found that, if handled correctly, the delicate RNA alone was sufficient to infect the plants.)
        Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat worked often during this period with his wife, Dr. Beatrice B. Singer, who survives him. Dr. Singer is a biochemist at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
        Heinz Fraenkel-Conrat was born in Breslau, Germany, and received his medical degree from the University of Breslau in 1933. He earned a doctorate in biochemistry at the University of Edinburgh in 1936. That same year he moved to the United States.
        He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1952, and won numerous awards, including an Albert Lasker Award for Basic Research in 1958, which he shared with Dr. Alfred D. Hershey and Dr. Gerhard Schramm for their work with nucleic acid. Dr. Fraenkel-Conrat also received two Guggenheim fellowships.
      