
        Man Bun Lee, sometimes known as the ''Mayor of Chinatown'' for his many public activities, including his long service as president of the Chinatown Consolidated Benevolent Association, the Manhattan neighborhood's largest civic organization, died at New York University Downtown Hospital on May 1. He was 75 and lived in Chinatown.
        Mr. Lee died of a heart attack, said a daughter, Regina Lee Rivera of Washington.
        In addition to leading many civic groups concerned with the well-being of Chinese-Americans, Mr. Lee was a prominent and passionate public advocate of greater democracy in China, his family said.
        A restaurateur, Mr. Lee rose to prominence in 1974 when he was elected president of the benevolent association. Soon, he helped organize a rally to protest plans to close the Fifth Precinct station house in Chinatown. The protest was successful and the police station house continues to serve Chinatown today.
        Mr. Lee also played a leading role in gaining city approval for the construction of Confucius Plaza, a low-income housing project including an elementary school, in Chinatown. Last month, he was re-elected as chairman of the board of the project.
        After he became president, he used the benevolent association to counter the threat that gangs posed to the safety of the neighborhood by organizing counseling services for youths that the gangs might try to recruit.
        The program was effective enough to anger gang members, one of whom attacked Mr. Lee in 1977, stabbing him five times in the Kao Wah Restaurant on Mott Street, which he operated. He survived the attack and continued to work against the gangs.
        He was also president of the New York Lee Family Association, a fraternal and social organization for the many members of the Lee family. He also served as comptroller of the family association's credit union.
        In 1976, to honor Mr. Lee's civic activities, the Manhattan Borough President, Percy Sutton, proclaimed Feb. 29 as Man Bun Lee Day.
        Born in China, Mr. Lee received a bachelor's degree from Guangdong University. He came to the United States in 1953, and earned a master's degree in business and finance from the University of Tennessee.
        In addition to Ms. Rivera, Mr. Lee is survived by his wife, Kam Lan Lee of Chinatown, and two other daughters, Lucy Lee Lew, of New York City, and Rita Lee Toyooka, of Dallas.
      