
        Shel Silverstein, whose goofy, gross and macabre yet always enchanting poetry for children sold more than 14 million books, was found dead yesterday morning at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 67.
        Neither the time nor cause of death had been determined yesterday afternoon, said Shel Vidibor, his friend and lawyer.
        While Mr. Silverstein's talents led him into a diverse series of careers as a cartoonist, playwright, singer and songwriter, it was his children's verses that are best known and often compared with masters of the form like Dr. Seuss and A. A. Milne.
        His collections of children's poetry, ''Where the Sidewalk Ends: The Poems and Drawings of Shel Silverstein'' (Harper, 1974) and ''A Light in the Attic'' (Harper 1981), both enjoyed long runs on the best-seller lists. ''Attic'' spent 182 weeks on The New York Times list, and ''Sidewalk'' was No. 11 on Publisher's Weekly's all-time list of hard-cover best sellers.
        Mr. Silverstein was also the author of the children's classic ''The Giving Tree'' (Harper, 1964).
        In addition to his writings for children, he contributed cartoons to Playboy magazine for many years and wrote nine plays for adults. In 1988, when several of those plays were packaged as ''Wild Life'' and were produced at the Vanguard Theater in Manhattan, Frank Rich, in his review in The New York Times, suggested that writing for the theater ''may eventually prove his most fruitful career to date.''
        Mr. Silverstein's career as a children's author began in 1963 with the publication of ''Uncle Shelby's Story of Lafcadio, the Lion Who Shot Back'' (Harper).
        This yarn about a lion who acquired a hunter's gun and practiced until he became a good enough shot to join the circus, was only a moderate success. It was not until publication of ''The Giving Tree,'' a story about a tree that surrenders its shade, fruit, branches and finally its trunk to a boy in order to make him happy, that Mr. Silverstein developed a mass following.
        In 1974, when he published the collection of poems called ''Where the Sidewalk Ends,'' his work was compared to that of Dr. Seuss and Edward Lear. The combination of silliness and sophisticated word play in Mr. Silverstein's poetry is illustrated by the poem ''Eggs Rated'' in the collection ''Falling Up'' (HarperCollins, 1997). Here, the syllable ''ex'' is wittily replaced by ''egg,'' as in ''Eggstra fluffy,/Eggstremely tasty/ Cooked eggsactly right . . .'' But those eggs are ''much more eggspensive than I eggspected.''
        Many of the poems reflect a ghoulish taste that children tolerate better than many adults. In the poem ''Safe,'' also in the collection ''Falling Up,'' a child preparing to cross a street carefully looks to one side and then the other before confidently proceeding oblivious to a steel safe hurtling down from the heavens.
        And his poems had a naughty silliness that children loved. One of his verses ran:
        There's too many kids in this tub.
        There's too many elbows to scrub.
        I just washed a behind
        That I'm sure wasn't mine.
        There's too many kids in this tub.
        Mr. Silverstein, whose books were translated into 20 languages, maintained residences on Martha's Vineyard, Mass.; Key West; Greenwich Village, and on a houseboat in Sausalito, Calif., refused to grant interviews in recent years.
        In the 1950's Mr. Silverstein served with the United States armed forces in Japan and Korea and began drawing cartoons for Stars and Stripes, the American military publication.
        When he returned to the United States, he began drawing cartoons for Playboy.
        Apart from his cartoons, Mr. Silverstein began writing songs in the country-western style. In 1969 one of these, ''A Boy Named Sue,'' was made a hit for Johnny Cash. In 1980 Mr. Silverstein recorded a country music album called ''The Great Conch Train Robbery.''
        Mr. Silverstein is survived by his son, Matthew, and a sister, Peggy Myers of Chicago.
        Shelby Silverstein was born in Chicago in 1932, and backed his way into publishing. ''When I was a kid -- 12 to 14, around there -- I would much rather have been a good baseball player or a hit with the girls,'' he once told a reporter for Publisher's Weekly. ''But I couldn't play ball. I couldn't dance. Luckily, the girls didn't want me. Not much I could do about that. So I started to draw and to write. By the time I got to where I was attracting girls, I was already into work, and it was more important to me.''
      