
        Dr. James J. Humes, one of two Navy pathologists who performed the autopsy on President John F. Kennedy, died on Thursday at his home in Ponte Vedra, Fla. He was 74.
        The cause was lung cancer, his son James Jr. said.
        Dr. Humes and his colleague, Dr. J. Thornton Boswell, concluded that Kennedy had been struck by only two bullets, fired from above and behind, and that he had been killed when one exploded in his skull.
        Through the cloud of conspiracy theories put forward after the assassination in 1963, Dr. Humes and Dr. Boswell stayed mostly silent, even when critics contended that they had had insufficient experience with gunshot wounds. An Army pathologist, Dr. Pierre Finck agreed with the Navy pathologists' conclusions.
        In 1992, in interviews published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Dr. Humes and Dr. Boswell affirmed their findings.
        Asked about the continuing controversy over Kennedy's killing, James Humes Jr. said on Monday, ''My father did not want people to profit from the tragedy of an American President's death by sensationalism,'' like the writing of books to advance conspiracy theories.
        Dr. Humes rose to be the Navy's director of laboratories, based at Bethesda Naval Hospital, where the Kennedy autopsy was performed. He retired from the Navy as a captain in 1967 and was awarded the Legion of Merit decoration.
        Over the years, he was president of the American Society of Clinical Pathologists, of the College of American Pathology and of the Association of Clinical Scientists.
        Dr. Humes was born in Philadelphia. He graduated from St. Joseph's Preparatory School there and attended St. Joseph's University and Villanova University, both in Pennsylvania. He joined the Navy in its V-12 program and received his medical degree from Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia.
        After retiring from the Navy, he served as medical director and as director of laboratories at St. John Hospital in Detroit. He later was a clinical professor of pathology at the University of Florida Health Service Center in Jacksonville.
        Besides his son James J. Jr., of Chicago, he is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Ann Mary Harrington; four other sons, Jeffrey, of Wallington, Fla., Gerald, of Ann Arbor, Mich., Philip, of Douglasville, Ga., and Kenneth, of Miami; two daughters, Alyce Marie Greider of Jacksonville Beach, Fla., and Ann Mary Sansbury of Windemere, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      