
        Eqbal Ahmad, a political scientist and peace activist who as one of the Harrisburg 7 was accused of planning to abduct Henry A. Kissinger to protest the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Islamabad, Pakistan. He was 67 and lived in Islamabad.
        Mr. Ahmad died when his heart failed after surgery for colon cancer, said his wife, Julie.
        After retiring four years ago as professor of political science at Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., he returned to Pakistan, where he had grown up. In retirement there, he wrote regularly on international affairs for publications in many countries.
        Throughout his academic career, he took strong positions on many issues, which he made known through Op-Ed articles in The New York Times and other newspapers,  as well as other writings. He was a longstanding defender of the Palestinian cause, opposed the drift to religious absolutism and publicly denounced the death threat made against the author Salman Rushdie in 1989 by the Iranian Government. Edward Said, the Columbia University scholar, characterized Mr. Ahmad as ''an unconventional radical.''
        Noam Chomsky, a longtime friend, said that since Mr. Ahmad had returned to Pakistan he had unsuccessfully sought to establish an independent university there ''in a context of extreme danger, brutal violence and rabid intolerance'' and that ''his friends constantly feared for his life.''
        It was in January 1971 that Mr. Ahmad, then a fellow at the Adlai Stevenson Institute of International Affairs at the University of Chicago, was indicted along with six Catholic pacifists on charges of plotting to blow up heating tunnels under Government buildings in Washington and then to kidnap Dr. Kissinger, who at the time was President Richard M. Nixon's national security adviser.
        Mr. Ahmad's co-defendants included Philip Berrigan, then a Catholic priest; Elizabeth McAlister, then a nun; two other Catholic priests, a former priest and a former nun. Mr. Ahmad, a Muslim, was with Dr. Chomsky, one of the earliest and most vocal opponents of American policies in Vietnam and Cambodia to emerge on the nation's campuses.
        By the winter of 1971, when the trial got under way, it became clear that much of the Government's case was based on the evidence of an F.B.I. informer who was a fellow prisoner of Father Berrigan's at the Lewisburg Federal Penitentiary in Pennsylvania. At the time, Philip Berrigan was serving a prison sentence for raiding a Selective Service office in Catonsville, Md., and pouring blood on the files. The court heard that Sister Elizabeth McAlister, who would later marry Father Berrigan, had written letters to him in Lewisburg saying that someone identified as ''Eq'' had proposed the kidnapping as an antiwar move.
        During the trial, Mr. Ahmad, who was free on bail, held a news conference at which he conceded that an abduction of Mr. Kissinger was discussed over cognac at a dinner on a hot August evening in Westport, Conn., after the guests had had a number of drinks. He said a ''citizen's arrest of Nixon'' had been discussed. The idea was to stage a sit-in at the White House where ''a people's grand jury would issue a subpoena for the national leader to face a war crimes tribunal.''
        ''We felt it could not be done,'' Mr. Ahmad said. ''There was no agreement that a kidnapping could be done nonviolently nor that it would have the desired impact on the war. Consequently there was no plan.''
        After the prosecution took five weeks to present its case, Ramsey Clark, the former Attorney General shocked the court when he rose and  represented his clients with three terse sentences. ''Your Honor,'' he said, ''the defendants shall always seek peace. They continue to proclaim their innocence. The defense rests.''
        It proved sufficient, for on April 5, after the jury spent 59 hours without reaching unanimity, a mistrial was declared. Ten members of the jury had voted for acquittal while 2 said the Government had proved its case. No new trial was sought.
        After the trial, Mr. Ahmad said, ''We shall be out on the streets as fast as we can to continue our antiwar demonstrations.''
        Mr. Ahmad was born in the Indian state of Bihar, where, Mr. Said said, his father had been a minor landowner. When Mr. Ahmad was 8, his father was killed in a sectarian upheaval. Seven years later during the bloody partition of India, he and his family made a perilous journey to resettle in Lahore in the new country of Pakistan.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Said came to the United States on a Rotary Scholarship, studying at Occidental College. He received a doctorate from Princeton University and subsequently taught at Cornell University and became a founding member of the Institute for Policy Studies.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Dohra, of Manhattan.
      