
        Heinz Werner Berendes, a pediatrician and medical epidemiologist for the National Institutes of Health who pioneered studies of birth-control safety and the care of newborns, died on May 6 at the N. I. H. Clinical Center in suburban Maryland. He was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, where he was a senior investigator. Mr. Berendes directed the perinatal research branch and the groundbreaking Collaborative Perinatal Project, the largest such effort this country.
        The project led to hundreds of research papers 40 years ago, and remains an important source of data on pregnancy and child development. Dr. Berendes also led more recent studies for the World Health Organization and made evaluations intended to improve the care of expectant mothers and their newborns in developing countries.
        Born in Dortmund, Germany, Dr. Berendes earned medical doctorates at the Universities of Gottingen and Munich. He started a career as a child psychiatrist in Germany but came to this country in 1953 and later added a master's degree in epidemiology from Johns Hopkins University.
        After joining the institutes of health in 1960, he was chief of the perinatal branch from 1960 to 1973 and headed the contraceptive evaluation branch from then until 1979. He successively held top positions in  contraceptive evaluation, the epidemiology and biometry research program and, until last year, the Division of Epidemiology, Statistics and Prevention Research.
        In 1979, he took over the epidemiology and statistics program. Under his direction, the program grew into a world leader in the field of reproductive epidemiology.
        In addition, he held academic appointments at Howard University Medical School, Johns Hopkins and George Washington Universities. He served as a consultant to numerous agencies, published some 120 scientific papers, sat on many committees and task forces and was on the editorial board of the American Journal of Public Health.
        Dr. Berendes is survived by his wife, Dr. Michele Forman; their son David M., also of Bethesda; a son and daughter by an earlier marriage, Christoph M., of Washington, and Andrea Harmer, of Novato, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      