
        C. Earl Leslie, a retired White House artist whose decorative lettering embellished thousands of Government documents and proclamations issued by Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on May 6 at Washington House, a retirement home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
        Mr. Leslie, who rose to the post of assistant chief of the White House social office, was officially called an engrosser, a practitioner of a formal type of calligraphy that mostly uses gold leaf and watercolor.
        He preferred the title engrosser, and was rankled when someone called him a calligrapher. ''His distaste for the term stems from when it started to get popular, and anyone who could do some fancy curlicues with their letters started calling themselves a calligrapher,'' said his daughter, Carroll Leslie Bastian of Falls Church, Va.
        He was born on Aug. 24, 1907, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., the son of a well-known engrosser and penmanship expert, Scott Earl Leslie. The younger Leslie mastered the art early in life, first earning money for his hand lettering when he was only 12. While he was a teen-ager, he joined his father in his studio in Cleveland, where the family had moved.
        As a young man, Mr. Leslie was a science buff and, Ms. Bastian said, at one point in the 1920's he held the world speed record for the motorcycle.
        He had planned to attend the Colorado School of Mines, in Golden, Colo., to study chemistry, but his father was injured in a train crash, and he stayed home to keep the family business running.
        After Mr. Leslie won a national hand-lettering contest, however, he moved to Washington in 1932, taking a job at the Department of the Interior. He moved to the White House in 1935 and except for military service in Army Intelligence in World War II, he stayed there until 1960, when he retired.
        In his time at the White House, he had engrossing projects ranging from creating the proclamation of Germany's surrender in World War II to drafting place-seating cards for state dinners. His duties also included making protocol arrangements for social occasions.
        Occasionally, he used his precision talents in less tedious assignments. The Secret Service, Ms. Bastian said, sometimes used him as a handwriting expert, and President Roosevelt once asked him for a code with which to communicate with Prime Minister Winston Churchill of Britain during World War II.
        After retiring from the White House, Mr. Leslie worked independently for two decades, crafting a variety of documents for schools, churches and other organizations.
        He wife, Ann Carroll, died in 1984. Besides his daughter, he is survived by a brother, Elwin Leslie of Ouray, Colo.; a sister, Vera McDonald, of Miami, and a granddaughter.
      