
        Asrat Woldeyes, a British-trained Ethiopian doctor who was a leader of opposition to his country's present Government, died on Friday in the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was in his early 70's.
        The causes were complications from a heart ailment and general physical deterioration, said a nephew, Youm Abey Fesseba, the Associated Press reported.
        The nephew said Dr. Asrat, who taught medical students in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, arrived in Philadelphia last month and was hospitalized for three weeks before his death. He also had high blood pressure and diabetes that gravely affected his vision.
        Dr. Asrat had led the All-Amhara People's Party, which has criticized the Government.
        He was fervent in his own criticism of Prime Minister Meles Zenawi's Government, and in particular of the formation of new autonomous regions reflecting ethnic and linguistic considerations.
        In 1994 he became a political prisoner in Ethiopia, and he served out a five-year prison sentence on charges of having incited an armed rebellion against the Government through his party and of complicity in organizing an anti-Government uprising in part of northwestern Ethiopia.
        The British medical journal The Lancet reported in March that he had been hospitalized for months in Ethiopia, had spent nine days in the intensive care unit at Black Lion Hospital in Addis Ababa after suffering cardiac failure and had been the subject of appeals by Amnesty International and other medical and human rights organizations.
        He was waiting to face another trial on similar charges when he was temporarily freed from detention last December so that he could travel to the United States for medical care. Then the prosecutor withdrew the charges and said he was physically unfit to be tried again.
        When Dr. Asrat was released, the British Foreign Minister, Tony Lloyd, said, ''I believe this signals a clear commitment by the Ethiopian Government to uphold their human rights obligations.''
        Dr. Asrat practiced medicine in Ethiopia for more than a quarter-century and was personal physician to Emperor Haile Selassie, who reigned from 1930 to 1974 and died in 1975. When the present Government took power in 1991, Dr. Asrat founded the All-Amhara People's Party. Soon afterward he was dismissed from his post at Black Lion Hospital.
      