
        Kyriacos Demetriou, a master barber whose old-fashioned barber shop on the Upper West Side of Manhattan was such an authentic butterfly in amber that it went into the Museum of the City of New York when he retired in 1996, died on Friday. He was 80.
        His son-in-law, Paul Galietti, said Mr. Demetriou had appeared to be in good health, but died suddenly while watching television at his home on East 86th Street.
        Mr. Demetriou, who was called Mr. Kay by his customers, was proud  that the Broadway Barbershop, which he took over in the early 50's, was the oldest in the city, having been founded in 1904.
        But it was during the 40 years of his custodianship that the shop on Broadway between 103d and 104th Streets became an institution, and so did its owner. As unisex salons proliferated and stylists replaced barbers, and fewer men knew how to provide close and bloodless shaves with well-honed straight razors, Mr. Kay and the Broadway Barbershop were often described in newspaper and magazine articles as throwbacks to a time that was less impersonal and blow-dried.
        Max Ferguson, a painter and a customer of Mr. Kay's, included a portrait of the barber at work in his shop in his series of New York subjects that he considered doomed. In February 1985, The New Yorker ran a cartoon of Mr. Kay by Ed Koren that showed the barber preparing to cut the hair of a shaggy man who says: ''There is something you should know before you begin; my hair works hard and it plays hard.'' And when the shop finally closed, many newspapers devoted long articles to the subject, all mentioning an end of an era.
        While the old, shiny appliances and the milk-glass bottles marked lilac water and witch hazel helped establish the shop's atmosphere, so, too, did Mr. Kay's unchanging routine:  removing the tin covers from his barber pole by 8 in the morning, presenting lollipops to younger customers and keeping his radio set  tuned to WQXR, so that classical music filled the shop.
        There were also more mysterious rituals.
        For example, every workday evening between 5:30 and 6, a busy time when Mr. Kay almost always had customers backed up in the waiting area, a man, apparently returning from work and carrying a briefcase, would stick his head into the shop and address the barber.
        ''Hello,'' he would say.
        Mr. Kay would pause and answer, ''Hello, Mr. Wilson, how are you tonight?''
        ''Miserable,'' the dyspeptic Mr. Wilson would reply as he went on his way.
        If Mr. Kay knew more about Mr. Wilson, he kept it to himself. He was a good conversationalist, but a discreet one. He sometimes mentioned famous customers, though he never hung their portraits in the shop, believing that all his customers were worthy of respect.
        Once, he casually noted that he had cut the hair of the actor Yul Brynner, when he had hair. Among others he had trimmed and shaved were Humphrey Bogart, George Gershwin and Aaron Copland, a particular favorite.
        He also told of how in 1950, when he had five barbers working for him, he had sent them in turn to tend to Gen. Dwight David Eisenhower, then the president of Columbia University. None of the men wanted to go back. Finally, he went himself and learned why. ''You see,'' he said, snipping away at a customer's short back and sides, ''the General did not tip.''
        There were many other stories, but the ones he liked best were about families. He kept track of customers' children, asking what had become of the boys and girls he had once given lollipops. It was not unusual for people who had moved away years ago to come by when visiting New York, bringing their old barber up to date and learning his news.
        One story Mr. Kay loved to tell was about a young man who had come into the shop because he believed his father, whom he had not seen since early childhood, was a customer. Mr. Kay figured out who the older man was and engineered a reunion.
        Over time, without any pushiness, he would also tell his own story.
        He was born in Cyprus but as an infant was taken to London. The family was poor and his father had lost an arm. The child began working as a shoeshine boy in the West End, taking up a position outside a barber shop. After some time the barber invited him inside. He watched and learned, and recalled that in order to give his first haircuts, he had to stand on a milk crate.
        He had a gift for barbering; while in his 20's he won a contest as the best barber in England. For a while he had his own barbershop in London. He arrived in New York before World War II, cutting hair in a number of places before finding his way to the Broadway Barbershop.
        During the 80's and 90's, as barbershop demographics shifted to younger people and longer hair, and his rent went up, Mr. Kay's business suffered. He had to let the manicurist go, as well as the other barbers. Location scouts for movies and television came by regularly with offers to tape and film in the shop. Mr. Kay always declined, saying that would disrupt his customers. Increasingly, he thought of retirement, but put the idea aside when he considered customers like the postal worker who stopped by each morning for a shave.
        ''Nobody knows how to give a good shave anymore,'' Mr. Kay said. ''They call themselves stylists, but you ask them to give you a shave and they don't know how.''
        He is survived by his wife, Niki, and his daughter, Gloria Galietti of Queens.
        When he finally closed the shop at age 78, donating its furnishings to the museum, Mr. Kay still practiced barbering, regularly visiting some of his old customers at their homes.
      