
        Bill Ballantine, an artist and writer who peppered his work with images of circus life, died on Friday at the Pine Nursing Home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88 and lived in Sarasota.
        Mr. Ballantine's fascination with the circus was instilled as a young boy, when he traipsed after his father, a Shriner, to the extravaganzas the organization presented to his hometown, Millvale, Pa., each year.  These early memories of the big top, the sounds emitting from a music hall next to his home and, later, the poster-painting job by which he supported himself as an orphaned teen-ager, fueled in him a lifelong taste for show business.
        After studying at the Art Institute of Pittsburgh, he went to work as an artist and illustrator for The Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, The Associated Press and the newspaper PM in Brooklyn. During World War II, he served in England with the Office of War Information, creating the leaflets that the airforce dropped in Europe.
        After the war he pursued his childhood dream and joined the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus as a professional clown. For three years he lived and worked among the master clowns -- Felix Adler, Paul Jerome and Emmett Kelly -- while helping out in the circus's public relations department on the side and pursuing his future wife, Roberta Light, a showgirl.
        In 1969 he became the first dean of the circus's Clown College in Venice, Fla., giving a new generation of performers -- among them Bill Irwin and his own son Toby -- lessons on life masks, pantomime and acrobatics, which he began each day with readings about the theater. He wrote about his experiences in his book ''Clown Alley.''
        In addition to Toby, of Roslyn Heights, N.Y., Mr. Ballantine is survived by his wife; three daughters, Bridget Lambert of Orange, Calif., Tia Berger of Honolulu and Lulu Wootton of Marlboro, Vt.; another son, Tim of Alstead, N.H., and 15 grandchildren.
        After retiring in 1977 he embarked on a second career. He became a  freelance writer, producing 10 books -- including ''Wild Tigers and Tame Fleas'' and ''Circus! From Rome to Ringling'' -- and more than 90 articles for such magazines as Harper's, Harper's Bazaar and Seventeen. While on assignment, Mr. Ballantine kept up with his old career, hitching  rides to and from locations with circus caravans.
        Correction:  May 20, 1999, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Bill Ballantine, a clown, artist and writer, misstated his connection to the book ''Circus! From Rome to Ringling.'' He reviewed it for The Times in 1956; the author was Marian Murray.
      