
        Henry Jones, a Tony Award-winning character actor who had a long career on Broadway, in films and on television, died on Monday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif.
        Mr. Jones had a face as plain as his name. As his daughter, Jocelyn Jones Watkins, said yesterday, ''He looked like the everyday man, the guy next door.''
        He blended into his roles as doctors, ministers, judges, janitors and sometimes murderers. Often his character was that of a mild-mannered man with a secret, the worm who turned; frequently that turn was toward the sinister. Although he was known for being reliable and highly professional, he could be overlooked, a member of a supporting cast. But when given the opportunity, he delivered memorable performances.
        Two of his most acclaimed stage appearances were in long-running Broadway shows in the 50's. In 1954 he was Leroy, the suspicious handyman murdered by the psychotic child played by Patty McCormack in ''The Bad Seed.'' Four years later he won his Tony as featured actor for his role as Louis Howe, the confidant of Franklin D. Roosevelt (Ralph Bellamy), in ''Sunrise at Campobello.'' He later repeated his ''Bad Seed'' role in the film version of that Maxwell Anderson play, and that led to many offers to play, in his words, ''psychoneurotic janitors.''
        On screen, perhaps most significantly, he was the coroner in Alfred Hitchcock's ''Vertigo.'' In that film he had to deliver a four-minute monologue that later became celebrated as a cameo. He was a favorite of Hitchcock, who often cast him on his television show.
        His other films included ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?,'' ''3:10 to Yuma,'' ''Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,'' ''The Grifters'' and ''Dick Tracy.'' Beginning in 1949 he appeared in 350 television shows, including most of the major dramatic anthologies and series like ''The Defenders,'' ''Quincy M.E.'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.'' In 1994 he was in Anne Tyler's ''Breathing Lessons'' on Hallmark Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Jones was born in Philadelphia, where he graduated from St. Joseph's College. In the 1930's he acted at the Hedgerow Theater in Moylan, Pa., and made his Broadway debut in 1938 in Maurice Evans's ''Hamlet.'' He played Reynaldo and the Second Gravedigger, and by the end of the run worked his way to the First Gravedigger. He was also in Evans's production of ''Henry IV, Part Two,'' and in ''The Time of Your Life'' and ''My Sister Eileen.''
        As a private in the Army during World War II, he appeared in Irving Berlin's ''This Is the Army.'' He also played Humpty Dumpty and the Mouse in Eva Le Gallienne's ''Alice in Wonderland'' and a Southern senator in ''Advise and Consent.'' He was in ''The Solid Gold Cadillac'' and ''They Knew What They Wanted,'' with Paul Muni.
        In addition to his daughter, of Santa Monica, he is survived by a son, David, of Arleta, Calif.
        As he approached 70, Mr. Jones recalled that because of his unprepossessing appearance he had had a difficult time at the beginning of his career. ''The casting directors didn't know what to do with me,'' he said. ''I was never tall enough or good looking enough to play juvenile leads.'' But Mr. Jones seemed satisfied to be a character actor, and for 60 years he never stopped working.
      