
        Leo Cherne, who turned the International Rescue Committee into the largest agency in the world for the relief and resettlement of refugees, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        A lawyer, economist and businessman, Mr. Cherne became chairman of the I.R.C. in 1951, succeeding Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian. The organization had grown out of modest efforts to rescue a few thousand endangered people from Nazi-occupied France in the early days of World War II. Under Mr. Cherne, the New York-based committee eventually helped hundreds of thousands of displaced, dispossessed and desperate people, first in Europe and then all over the world in places like Bangladesh, Southeast Asia, Latin America, the Horn of Africa, Afghanistan, Rwanda and Burundi.
        When Mr. Cherne was given the United States Medal of Freedom in 1984, President Reagan cited the ''moral passion'' he had shown in ''serving the cause of human freedom, especially through his work on behalf of refugees.''
        Mr. Cherne was also an adviser to nine presidents, a close friend of William Casey, the former head of the C.I.A., and from 1973 to 1991 a member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, serving as its chairman during the Bush Administration. As a member of this low-profile but high-impact panel, Mr. Cherne helped create the so-called Team B, a group of experts headed by Richard Pipes, the Harvard historian, which disputed C.I.A. assessments of Soviet military capabilities and intentions as too dovish; the committee's more alarming estimates bolstered the positions of the strongest proponents of increased United States military expenditures.
        Lionel Olmer, a lawyer and a former Undersecretary of Commerce, said that during his last hospital visit to his friend of 29 years, as the two men talked about human rights and refugees, Mr. Cherne told him, ''I hope I'll also be remembered as a cold warrior.''
        Andrew Smith, who is working on an authorized biography of Mr. Cherne, said he was a man of great reticence and discretion. ''He knew that the way to get and maintain influence in Washington was to get things done and then to keep quiet about them,'' Mr. Smith said. He added: ''It certainly worked well for him, giving him access to every President since Roosevelt. Here was a poor boy from the Bronx, without money or family or influence, who became the consummate insider.''
        Mr. Cherne had been a Democrat since his youth but in 1980 became a figure in Democrats for Reagan because of the candidate's views on national security.
        Leo Cherne was born in New York on Sept. 18, 1912, to Max and Dora Cherne, immigrants from Russia. His father had a photography store in the Bronx. He attended public schools, New York University and New York Law School.
        After jobs in several law firms, in 1935 he teamed up with a Bible salesman from Kansas named Carl Hovgard to establish a company that published and distributed Mr. Cherne's advice to businessmen on how to contend with the new Social Security law. The book became extremely successful, and the company grew into the Research Institute of America, which offered Mr. Cherne's assessments about how world and political events would affect business.
        At war's end, General Douglas MacArthur took him to Japan to work on the defeated nation's economic recovery.
        The Research Institute of America was providing Mr. Cherne with a comfortable income, and his yearly economic and political forecast regularly drew a thousand listeners to the Waldorf Astoria. He joined the board of Freedom House and he became the chairman of the I.R.C., which was in financial difficulty at the time. His aggressive fund-raising staved off collapse and allowed for steady expansion.
        In 1953, Mr. Cherne participated in a radio program, ''The Town Meeting of the Air,'' on which he debated Senator Joseph McCarthy. Though Mr. Cherne shared Senator McCarthy's antipathy toward communism and its proponents, he strongly challenged and scorned McCarthyism's  demagogic methods and contempt for truth and civil rights.
        Three years later, when Soviet tanks moved into Budapest to crush the Hungarian uprising, Mr. Cherne went to the Hungarian border to bear witness. On his return, he appeared on the Ed Sullivan television program, poignantly describing refugees trying to evade tanks as they fled their occupied land. The appearance evoked an outpouring of contributions. It was the first of many such missions and public pleas by an essentially reticent man.
        While working daily for the I.R.C., consulting often, if anonymously, in Washington, and writing economic analysis, Mr. Cherne also became an accomplished sculptor. Many of his busts are on prominent public display. He retired from the I.R.C. as chairman in 1991 but remained chairman emeritus and visited his office regularly until his recent illness. He received many decorations, among them the French Legion of Honor, Germany's Commander Cross and the United Nations Gold Medal of Peace.
        Mr. Cherne is survived by his daughter, Gail Gambino of Baiting Hollow, N.Y., a brother, Jack Cherne of Santa Monica, Calif., and a granddaughter, Erica Gambino of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
      