
        William Brown, an architectural administrator who supervised the creation of 20th-century landmarks like Lever House on Park Avenue in Manhattan and the city of Oak Ridge, Tenn., died on April 4 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 89.
        Working for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the architecture and engineering firm, Mr. Brown drew inspiration from masters like Mies van der Rohe and Le Corbusier and collaborated with leading architects.
        As an administrative partner, he coordinated the enormous detail that went into carrying out modern architectural projects like Lever House.
        Lever House, which was completed in 1952 in collaboration with one of the firm's design partners, Gordon Bunshaft, is credited with significantly changing the direction of corporate architecture in the United States.
        Apart from drawing upon modernist esthetic principles, the building incorporates advanced structural concepts, including a sealed design that depends on mechanically driven climate controls, novel materials for  the interior and exterior, and automated window washing.
        While at Skidmore, Owings during World War II, Mr. Brown supervised the design and construction of Oak Ridge, conceived as an instant city of 80,000 required to build the first atomic weapons.
        The project represented a significant change in the Skidmore, Owings's scale of operation from a small architectural practice to one capable of providing citywide architectural, engineering and planning services.
        The Terrace Plaza Hotel in Cincinnati, completed in 1948, was another step forward for the firm, and again Mr. Brown played a crucial role. The firm handled everything from exterior and interior design to the commissioning of artists like Joan Miro, Alexander Calder and Saul Steinberg for special projects.
        Born in Washington Courthouse, Ohio, Mr. Brown graduated from Ohio State University and earned a master's degree in architecture from Columbia University in 1935. He joined Skidmore, Owings in 1939,  became a partner in 1949 and retired in 1969.
        Mr. Brown is survived by two sons, Peter, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and David, of Sharon, N.H., and four grandchildren.
      