
        William Alfred, the author of ''Hogan's Goat'' and other plays and a longtime professor at Harvard University, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 76.
        Although Mr. Alfred had a distinguished career as an educator, it was as a playwright that he achieved his greatest recognition. ''Hogan's Goat,'' a play in blank verse about the bitter political maneuvering among Irish-Americans in Brooklyn in the late 19th century, was a surprise success Off Broadway in 1965.
        Opening at the American Place Theater, it was acclaimed by the critics and ran for 607 performances. It established Mr. Alfred's theatrical reputation and also introduced Faye Dunaway, who was featured in the cast as the wife of Matthew Stanton (Ralph Waite), the central character. ''Hogan's Goat'' propelled Ms. Dunaway's movie career. She and Mr. Alfred became close friends and in 1982, as a reigning Hollywood star, she returned to the theater in ''The Curse of an Aching Heart,'' a play about Irish-Americans in the era after ''Hogan's Goat.''
        Mr. Alfred began writing ''Hogan's Goat'' in 1956. Because of the demands of his teaching career it was nine years before he finished the play. Robert Lowell, a friend, recommended it to Wynn Handman, the artistic director of the American Place Theater, which had produced Mr. Lowell's ''Old Glory.'' Within a year ''Hogan's Goat'' opened. In 1971 a television version starring Ms. Dunaway, was presented on Channel 13.
        The author wrote several other plays, and collaborated with Albert Marre on ''Cry for Us All,'' a musical version of ''Hogan's Goat'' (with a score by Mitch Leigh and lyrics by Mr. Alfred and Phyllis Robinson), but none of them came close to equaling his phenomenal initial success. Though theater-struck, he continued teaching at Harvard, where he was one of the most popular professors. ''The nice thing about a professor in the theater,'' Mr. Alfred once said, ''is that you can always disappear.''
        He was born in Brooklyn in 1922. After serving in the Army during World War II, he graduated from Brooklyn College and then studied at Harvard, where he received a master's degree and a Ph.D. While at Harvard he took a course in creative writing with Archibald MacLeish and began writing verse plays, starting with ''Agamemnon,'' which was published in 1954.
        As a faculty member he was a medievalist, specializing in early English literature. His most celebrated course was a seminar on ''Beowulf.'' He also taught drama, playwriting and poetry at Harvard. Among the students he trained were Tommy Lee Jones, Stockard Channing and John Lithgow.
        His quiet academic life was suddenly interrupted by ''Hogan's Goat.'' In the play, he looked back on Irish immigrants and their early domination of New York politics. A highly poetic though realistic drama, it was filled with back room and barroom atmosphere, focusing on Matthew Stanton, who wants to unseat the corrupt mayor of Brooklyn.
        Remembering his difficult voyage to America, Stanton says,
        I crossed in mid-December: seven weeks
        Of driving rain that kept the hatches battened
        In a hold so low of beam a man my height
        Could never lift his head. And I couldn't wash . . .
        I'd have died with shame, had I sailed here to die.
        ''Get power!'' he cries. ''Without it, there can be no decency, no virtue and no grace. I have kept my vow. The mayor's chair is mine but for the running.'' His wife is less enthusiastic about his political campaign, and he is eventually brought down by the sins of his own past.
        ''Hogan's Goat'' was followed by ''Cry for Us All'' on Broadway in 1970; ''Agamemnon,'' which had its premiere in 1972 at the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J., and ''The Curse of an Aching Heart'' on Broadway.
        Mr. Alfred's roots remained in academia, where he continued to teach and write poetry and scholarly essays. He retired in 1991, but was still a familiar figure in Cambridge and in the audience for productions of plays at the American Repertory Theater at Harvard.
        He is survived by a half-brother, Vincent Allfrey.
        As a child, he spent a great deal of time with his great-grandmother Anna Maria Egan who immigrated to the United States from County Mayo in Ireland. She told him colorful stories about people she knew in Brooklyn before the turn of the century.
        ''They seemed to me to be more alive, even though they were dead, than the people around me, because she was such a wonderful storyteller,'' Mr. Alfred said. ''And she just intrigued me with one particular story, which was the seed of 'Hogan's Goat.' ''
      