
        Davis Allen, a prolific designer of modern business interiors and furniture who spent 40 years at the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, died on May 13 at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Fort Lauderdale.
        During his career, Mr. Allen had major responsibility for the interior design of the Istanbul Hilton, the Inland Steel Company headquarters in Chicago, the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel in Hawaii and the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library in Austin, Tex., among other projects.
        Maeve Slavin, a writer on design, said in her book ''Davis Allen: 40 Years of Interior Design at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill'' (1990), that he was an institution in ''the profession he helped to establish -- the total design of the interior corporate environment with furniture, art, and functional and decorative objects integrated into a comprehensively planned space.''
        Mr. Allen joined the firm in 1950 as a junior architectural designer, became an associate partner in 1965 and retired in 1990. He was the senior interior designer for more than 50 projects in his firm's New York, Chicago and San Francisco offices.
        In 1985, he was one of the first 15 inductees of the Interior Design Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Allen also designed a slat-back chair, called the Andover chair, made of natural or lacquered beechwood. Its shape was reminiscent of antique Windsor chairs and it was widely used in his own interiors and those designed by others. Mr. Allen said that the design was meant to achieve ''an American look,'' and that ''it looks most like the highchair I sat in when I was a child.''
        Another of his designs, the Bridgehampton chair, has been described as an updated and shiny example of a Shaker-style slat-back chair.
        Mr. Allen was born in Ames, Iowa, and grew up in Iowa and Illinois. He attended Brown University briefly and later studied at the National Swedish Institute for Building Research, in Stockholm, where he was impressed by how Swedish arts and crafts were being integrated into interior designs.
        He went on to study at Yale's School of Architecture, with time out for Army service in World War II. After working for the architectural firm of Harrison & Abramovitz, he moved to Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in New York.
        His survivors include his companion, Juan Garcia of Fort Lauderdale, and three brothers, A. F., of Batavia, Ill., Thomas, of Santa Fe, N.M. and Douglas, of Dourdan, France.
      