
        Jerzy Grotowski, the Polish director who was one of the most important and influential theatrical innovators of his time, died yesterday in Pontedera, Italy. He was 65 and lived in Italy.
        Mr. Grotowski died after years of fighting leukemia, said the director Andre Gregory, a friend.
        As the founder and head of the Polish Laboratory Theater, as a teacher and as the author of a seminal 1970 book, ''Towards a Poor Theater,'' Mr. Grotowski had a profound effect on the art of acting and on the experimental theater movement. The actor, he said, must be ''the direct creator in the same sense as a poet or painter.'' The focus in his work was on ''the immediate act that must exist during the performance which is, for me, the axis of my attitude toward the theater.''
        Mr. Gregory called him one of ''the great visionaries in modern theater,'' and ranked him as a director alongside Konstantin Stanislavsky, Vsevolod Meyerhold, Eugene Vakhtangov and Bertolt Brecht. Summarizing Mr. Grotowski's approach to acting, Mr. Gregory said, ''He saw the entire actor as an emotional, physical and vocal instrument.'' As Peter Brook has said, ''No one since Stanislavsky has investigated the nature of acting, its phenomenon, its meaning. . . as deeply and completely as Grotowski.''
        In his teaching and his direction, Mr. Grotowski looked to the mythic roots of the art. In ''Towards a Poor Theater,'' he posed the question, what can the theater do without? He answered that it could do without lights, music, scenery, it could even do without a theater. What it needed was one actor and one member of the audience.
        The idea, he said, was to ''enlarge on images deeply rooted in the collective unconscious.'' His theater was spiritual, ritualistic and nonliterary -- and extraordinarily challenging for the actor and for the audience. The actors, fiercely trained under his leadership, were called upon to use their bodies and voices in strange and demanding ways, and to create dehumanizing sounds in performance.
        When Mr. Grotowski made his first visit to New York in 1969, with a repertory of plays including ''Acropolis'' and ''The Constant Prince,'' theatergoers, limited to 100 for each performance, were led into a small theater space at the Washington Square Methodist Church. There they became witnesses to often horrific events dealing with torture and death.
        ''Acropolis'' was written in 1904 by the Polish playwright Stanislaw Wyspianski, but, as reinterpreted by Mr. Grotowski, it conjured the atmosphere of Auschwitz. ''The Constant Prince,'' based on a 17th-century Spanish play, was a Passion play featuring Richard Cieslak, the quintessential Grotowski actor. Mr. Grotowski's theater was political as well as metaphysical.
        Harvey Lichtenstein, head of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, one of the producers who first brought over Mr. Grotowski, recalled that each piece was incredibly concentrated, one tension-filled hour, performed ''at a fever pitch.''
        As a director and conceptualist, Mr. Grotowski influenced Mr. Brook, Mr. Gregory, Joseph Chaikin, Andrei Serban, the Mabou Mines and many other experimental directors in Europe and Asia as well as the U.S. Because of his revolutionary approach, his work was often subject to misconception. Some considered it to be anarchic and anti-art. Instead he believed in form and discipline: the aim was creativity, not chaos.
        Mr. Grotowski was well aware of the challenges of his radical beliefs and of the fact that many came to regard him as a guru. He once said that Stanislavsky ''was killed by his disciples and I think I am going the same route.''
        Part of the mystique of Mr. Grotowski was in his own appearance and manner. Generally dressed in a dark business suit, shrouding his eyes behind dark glasses, he projected an aura of detachment until he began to speak, which he did with great fervor. The year after his American debut, he returned to New York for a series of lectures to clear up ''Misconceptions in the United States about the Grotowski Method.''
        One session began at midnight at Manhattan's Town Hall and lasted until 4 A.M. The change in his appearance from the previous year was startling. He had lost 88 pounds, had grown a wispy beard, wore an open-necked shirt and had removed his dark glasses. In a nonstop, 90-minute monologue, he disowned his imitators, criticized his critics for their narrow interpretations of his art, discredited some of his own work and studiously declined deification.
        He was angry that some people categorized his theater as completely spiritual and psychic or purely physical. To him, it was all of those things, and each was inextricable from the other. He said that creation was a kind of confession, a method by which one discovered and ''unveiled'' oneself. Trying to explain his concept of a ''poor theater,'' he dismissed ''directorial tricks, preconceived notions, intellectual concepts, gymnastics, chaos, cries, violence.'' For him, these were masks or armor behind which people hid. After several hours of questions from the audience of theater professionals and academics, he said, ''I am not a prophet.''
        He was born in Rzeszow, Poland. At the beginning of World War II, his father left Poland for Paraguay. He and his brother, Kazimierz (later a professor of nuclear physics), were brought up by their mother.
        After graduating from the State Theater School in Cracow, he went to Moscow where he studied the work of Stanislavsky, Meyerhold and others. In an interview in 1969, he spoke with admiration about those Russian directors, but acknowledged only one master: Julius Osterwa, a Polish actor and director, who ''treated acting as a human experience that exists not for the public, but vis-a-vis the public.'' That idea inspired him to deal with theater of an ethical or metaphysical order.
        In 1957, Mr. Grotowski began directing in Poland. Two years later in the provincial town of Opole he formed his own company with a group of actors. It became the Laboratory Theater, and was relocated in Wraclow. His visit to New York in 1969 placed him and his work under intense theatrical scrutiny.
        Soon he stopped directing performances of plays and began specializing in paratheatrical productions or public events. In the 1980's, he found a home in America, teaching at Columbia University and, for several years, at the University of California at Irvine. Eventually, he was awarded a ''genius'' grant from the MacArthur Foundation. In recent years he had been working at his theatrical center in Pontedera.
        ''When he was working in theater, he created pieces with a sacred theme,'' said Mr. Gregory. ''In his last work, he was trying to create a sacred theater, exploring the nature of prayer.'' To the end, Mr. Grotowski continued to be a restless explorer, provoked by his curiosity and his passion for his art.
        Once, in a public forum, he was asked why he kept talking about going into the unknown. He answered, ''I hate going into the unknown. That's where I'm forced to go.''
        Correction:  January 28, 1999, Thursday  An obituary of the Polish theater director Jerzy Grotowski on Jan. 15 misstated the year he first visited New York. It was 1967, not 1969.
      