
        Robert Carr Doyle, a media executive whose work in television's early years ranged from charming President Truman to pondering what President Eisenhower had really meant to say in his responses at press conferences, died on Friday at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his daughter Nancy Doyle Palmer.
        Mr. Doyle worked for NBC televison in Washington and New York from 1946 to 1957. ''He was a very innovative craftsman as a producer and director'' of television news, said Reuven Frank, a former president of NBC News.
        He helped direct and produce ''The Huntley-Brinkley Report,'' the nightly newscast, from its beginning in October 1956.
        He also worked to organize and produce joint television news operations by ABC, CBS and NBC at eight presidential conventions, beginning in 1952, Mr. Frank said.
        Mr. Doyle also did some coaching of Presidents before they went before television news cameras at the White House. ''He was Harry Truman's favorite director,'' Mr. Frank said. ''As a pool producer and also when NBC was covering, he'd go down there and make sure the filming was done right.''
        ''The Eisenhower press conferences were not models of coherence,'' Mr. Frank continued, and so Mr. Doyle would study NBC's film of Mr. Eisenhower's responses to reporters' questions and then confer by phone with James Haggerty, Mr. Eisenhower's press secretary.
        ''It's not that Haggerty was censoring what we were putting together,'' Mr. Frank said. ''We were putting together pieces of film to make sure they made complete sentences,'' and Mr. Doyle ''didn't want Eisenhower to say what Eisenhower didn't say.''
        Mr. Doyle's later work included producing one-hour television specials for the National Geographic Society and owning and operating two radio stations and two cable systems. He won two Emmys and a Peabody Award, his family said.
        Born in Washington, he graduated in 1942 from Harvard College and was a Navy pilot in World War II.
        Besides his daughter, Ms. Palmer, of Washington, he is survived by his wife, Priscilla; another daughter, Diane Doyle, of Chevy Chase; a son, Robert, of Brooklyn; a sister, Marion Wade Campbell, of Richmond, Va.; and five grandchildren.
      