
        Marion Motley, one of the National Football League's first black players of the modern era and one of its best fullbacks ever, died yesterday in Cleveland. He was 79.
        Motley, a star with the Cleveland Browns from 1946 to 1953 and a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, had been suffering from prostate cancer, according to Joe Horrigan, a spokesman for the hall.
        Motley's first four years in pro football were the four seasons that the All-America Football Conference existed. The Browns, with a 47-4-3 record, won the league championship every year.
        In 1950, the N.F.L. absorbed three A.A.F.C. teams -- the Browns, the San Francisco 49ers and the Baltimore Colts -- and the A.A.F.C. went out of business. Many football people felt that the Browns would be outclassed in the established N.F.L., but in Motley's four years in that league the Browns won their conference title every year and the league championship in 1950, when Motley led the league in rushing with 810 yards on 140 carries.
        Those Browns had such celebrated players as quarterback Otto Graham, wide receivers Mac Speedie and Dante Lavelli, the offensive tackle and kicker Lou Groza and offensive guard Bill Willis. None contributed more than the 6-foot-1-inch, 238-pound Motley, who was fast, explosive and hard-working.
        In eight seasons with essentially a passing team, he rushed for 4,720 yards and 31 touchdowns. He was the A.A.F.C.'s career rushing leader with 3,024 yards.
        Motley was an inside blaster who had the speed to go outside. He made most of his yardage on trap plays, on which a defensive lineman was allowed to penetrate the line of scrimmage, then was trapped, allowing Motley to run through the vacated area.
        ''The trap was a fantastic play,'' he said, ''but I was seldom sent outside. There's no telling how much yardage I might have made if I ran as much as some backs do now.''
        Motley was also an exceptional pass blocker for Graham. The quarterback called him ''the best fullback I ever saw, a better all-around player than Jimmy Brown.''
        Blanton Collier, a Browns assistant coach then and later the head coach, rated Motley ''the greatest all-around football player I ever saw.''
        ''He had no equal as a blocker,'' Collier said. ''He could run with anybody for 30 yards or so. And this man was a great, great linebacker.''
        Motley was born on June 5, 1920, in Leesburg, Ga. He was raised in Canton, Ohio, and played for McKinley High School. Paul Brown, who would become the Cleveland Browns' founder and coach, first saw him there when Brown was coaching Massillon High School, McKinley's rival.
        Motley was an undistinguished college player for one year at South Carolina State and three years at Nevada. After college, he joined the Navy and played for the 1945 Great Lakes Naval Training Station team, coached by Brown.
        ''My dad always felt Marion was the greatest back he ever had,'' Paul Brown's son, the Cincinnati Bengals' owner, Mike Brown, said yesterday.
        Until the Browns signed Willis in 1946, there were only two black players -- Kenny Washington and Woody Strode of the Los Angeles Rams -- in the N.F.L. and none in the A.A.F.C. The Browns had turned down Motley once, but now they wanted a black roommate for Willis and gave the 26-year-old Motley a tryout. As Motley later told the story:
        ''After a few practices, one of the white linemen, Mike Scarry, told Paul Brown, 'Either you get Motley for our side or I go over to his side.' After that, I didn't worry about being Bill Willis's roommate. I wanted to be the best fullback.''
        He became that, but he played his last four seasons with knee trouble and quit just before the 1954 season. He attempted a comeback in 1955 with the Pittsburgh Steelers, supposedly as a linebacker. He played five of the first six games, mostly as a blocking back for punts and field goals, but his knees were still bad and the Steelers dropped him.
        His salary was $4,500 as a rookie and $15,000 in his last year with the Browns.
        After his playing days, Motley wanted to coach in the N.F.L., but black coaches were scarce. He coached a women's team in 1967 in Cleveland and did occasional scouting for the Browns. He worked in a post office and a parking lot and was a supervisor for the Ohio lottery.
        In 1968, he became the second black player (after Emlen Tunnell of the Giants) to be voted into the Pro Football Hall, which is in Canton. As his presenter, he chose Willis, his old roommate.
        Motley said he was glad he played pro football.
        ''I was fortunate,'' he said, ''to be able to be one of the few to excel at something I liked to do.''
        He is survived by three sons, a brother and a sister.
      