
        Arthur C. Fatt, one of the founders of Grey Advertising and a former chief executive of the company, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mr. Fatt, whose main residence was in New York City, was 94 years old.
        He had been in failing health for nearly three years after suffering a stroke, according to his secretary, Kathryn Fillmann.
        Together with Lawrence Valenstein, who died in 1982, Mr. Fatt started Grey in 1925 with a handful of employees. By the time the two of them retired -- Mr. Fatt in 1976 -- and passed on the reins to others, it had become one of the country's leading advertising agencies. Mr. Fatt maintained an office at the company into the late 1980's.
        With billings of $7.8 billion last year, Grey Advertising, which now has offices in 90 countries, some of them opened by Mr. Fatt, was ranked by Advertising Age as the world's sixth-largest ad agency. Its clients include Procter & Gamble, Time Warner, Sprint and Seagram.
        In 1917, Mr. Valenstein, then 18, borrowed $100 from his mother to lease space on Fifth Avenue and start a direct mail advertising company. The walls had been painted gray and, so the story goes, he named his company Grey Studios.
        Four years later, he placed an ad in The New York Times looking for an office boy and Mr. Fatt, then 17 and just out of high school, turned up. ''I liked his spirit,'' Mr. Valenstein said later, ''and offered him the job.''
        Mr. Fatt never really saw himself as an office boy. Not long after he was hired he suggested that the company replace the folders it had been mailing out with a slick magazine. Mr. Valenstein hesitated. But Mr. Fatt had a dummy issue. And Mr. Valenstein liked it.
        Soon Mr. Fatt was Mr. Valenstein's partner. With the money they made from ads in the magazine, which they called ''Furs and Fashions,'' they expanded the company and in 1925 changed its name to Grey Advertising.
        Mr. Fatt took to the road as the chief salesman while Mr. Valenstein became the chief administrator. Mr. Fatt also wrote some of the copy, including a well-received line for the Greyhound Lines bus company, ''Leave the driving to us.''
        Mr. Fatt, a native New Yorker, became president and chief executive in 1956, succeeding his partner. From 1961 to 1970 he served as chairman of the executive committee. In 1970, when Edward H. Meyer, the current chairman and chief executive, took charge of the company, Mr. Fatt was named founder-chairman, a largely advisory position that he held for six years. Mr. Valenstein had been founder-chairman from 1965 until 1970.
        Among the accounts that Mr. Fatt brought to Grey were the Ford Motor Company, Procter & Gamble and Chock Full o' Nuts.
        At one point Mr. Fatt, who was an avid sailor, water skier and scuba diver, had a home on the Spanish island of Majorca and often spent the winter in Barbados. He entertained clients at both places.
        He served as a director of the American Association of Advertising Agencies and the American Advertising Federation. Mr. Fatt's marriage to Virginia Finder Gernsback ended in divorce in 1946. His second wife, Barbara Cappeau, died in 1992. He is survived by two daughters, Barbara Costikyan and Marjorie Chester, both of New York; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Valenstein and Mr. Fatt remained lifelong friends. In an joint interview published in Grey's internal newsletter in 1982, Mr. Valenstein said that ''men like Arthur Fatt have made life very happy for me.''
        Mr. Fatt added, ''Vice versa.''
      