
        Jiri Pelikan, a leader of Communist Czechoslovakia's ''Prague Spring,'' the short-lived period of liberal reforms in 1968, died on Saturday in a hospital in Rome. He was 76.
        He lived in Rome, having received political asylum in Italy after the end of the Prague Spring when Soviet-led Warsaw Pact forces invaded Czechoslovakia in August 1968.
        His wife, Jitka, said he had been sick for some time.
        Mr. Pelikan, a warm, energetic man, was the head of Czechoslovakia's Government-run national television system.
        He was also a popular member of Parliament during the brief period of liberalization, which Alexander Dubcek, the Communist Party leader at the time, called ''socialism with a human face.'' During that period, democratization was more extensive in Czechoslovakia than in any other Communist nation.
        During the thaw, Mr. Pelikan is said to have run the state television system free of censorship, and he was active in other spheres. He was a leading supporter of Mr. Dubcek.
        On Sunday the Prime Minister of France, Lionel Jospin, sent a message to Mr. Pelikan's family lauding ''the memory of this indefatigable protector of human rights.''
        After the Prague Spring ended, Mr. Pelikan lost his television job. Harry Schwartz, an expert on Eastern Europe, wrote in a 1969 book that Mr. Pelikan had been a victim ''of Moscow's fury at the media's gigantic contribution to the nation's short period of unfettered free speech.'' In addition, Mr. Pelikan's Czechoslovak citizenship was revoked.
        He was born in 1923 in Moravia, a region in Czechoslovakia, and was raised in a family of artists and thinkers.
        The late 1930's were eventful for his country and for him. In 1938, Moravia and an adjoining Czech region, Bohemia, jointly became an autonomous unit within Czechslovakia. In 1939, Nazi Germany seized control of Czechoslovakia and designated Bohemia and Moravia a German protectorate. Later that year, World War II began.
        Mr. Pelikan joined the Czech Communist Party in 1939, became active in the anti-German resistance movement and was jailed for a time by the Gestapo.
        After leaving Czechoslovakia for Italy, he was a respected leftist writer and intellectual there. He became an Italian citizen and a Socialist member of the European Parliament.
        In 1972 the Czechoslovak Communist Party newspaper, Rude Pravo, alleged that Mr. Pelikan had sent ''written materials and instructions to Czechoslovakia inciting hostile individuals and groups to antistate activities.''
        In 1975 he received a package in the mail that turned out to be an explosive device. But, he said, he escaped injury when he noticed smoke coming out of the half-opened package and threw it into an adjoining room just before it burst into flames.
      