
        Catholicos Karekin I, the spiritual leader of Armenian Orthodox Christians worldwide, who faced the enormous task of reinvigorating his ancient church after the fall of Soviet Communism, died yesterday at his pontifical residence in Echmiadzin, near the Armenian capital, Yerevan. He was 66.
        The cause of death was throat cancer, for which he received treatment in the last year in New York, said a spokesman for the Diocese of the Armenian Church of America.
        An Oxford-trained theologian fluent in English, French and other languages, he held the title Supreme Patriarch and Catholicos of All Armenians, with a flock of more than six million.
        Head of one of the world's oldest churches, he was a leading exponent of ecumenism among Christians and was well known among church leaders in Europe, the Middle East and the United States.
        In March, returning to Armenia from New York, he stopped at the Vatican, where he and Pope John Paul II made plans for the Pope to visit Armenia in July. As Catholicos Karekin's health deteriorated during the spring, the Pope tried to schedule a private visit this month but called it off because of his own health problems.
        Catholicos Karekin became head of the Armenian Apostolic Church in April 1995; he was the first such leader elected in centuries within an independent Armenia.
        The nation, with a population of about 3.5 million, had emerged only four years earlier after seven decades of rule by the Soviet Union. Even before the Soviet domination of the present republic, Armenia was often divided up and ruled by countries including Russia, Turkey and Syria.
        Catholicos Karekin was the 131st in a line of church leaders stretching back to St. Gregory the Illuminator, who converted King Tiridates III of Armenia in 301. Christianity became Armenia's official religion a decade before the conversion of the Roman Emperor Constantine.
        Along with churches in Egypt, Syria, Ethiopia and India, the Armenian Church belongs to the branch of Orthodox Christianity that did not accept the definition of Christ's nature as human and divine promulgated by the Council of Chalcedon in 451.
        He visited the United States in May 1998 of last year to help celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Diocese.
        In an interview then, he said he faced three major challenges in revitalizing the Armenian church: overcoming the negative influences of Soviet-sponsored atheism, persuading Armenians that Christianity is a way of life and not simply an ideology, and persuading them that faith offers spiritual and moral sustenance.
        The Rev. Joan Brown Campbell, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, who met several times with the Catholicos, recalled him as unaffected and considerate. During a visit to Echmiadzin, she went to early morning prayers and saw him beckon her to stand beside him.
        ''I know you don't know the language -- I'll translate for you,'' Ms. Campbell recalled him saying.
        ''That just amazed me,'' she said. ''He never saw himself as too lofty to be a teacher when you needed help.''
        Catholicos Karekin was born Neshan Sarkissian in Kessab, Syria, on Aug. 27, 1932. After graduating from a seminary in 1952, he was ordained a celibate priest and took the name Karekin in honor of an earlier church leader.
        He studied at Oxford from 1957 to 1959, served as a seminary dean and then became an aide to Catholicos Khoren I, head of the Catholicate of Cilicia, a self-governing see within the Armenian church. He was also sent as an observer to the Second Vatican Council.
        He became a bishop in 1964 and an archbishop in 1973 and later was elected Catholicos Coadjutor of Cilicia, to succeed Khoren I. After Catholicos Khoren died in 1983, Catholicos Karekin made visits to the Vatican, the Church of England, European Protestant churches and the Coptic Church of Egypt.
        As head of the separate Cilician see, he was seen as a long shot to succeed the Armenian Apostolic Church's long-reigning head, Vasken I, who died in 1994. But after favorable statements were made by Armenia's President, opinion began to shift toward Catholicos Karekin and he was elected in a gathering of 400 church delegates.
      