
        Marshall Wayne, who displeased Adolf Hitler by winning gold and silver medals in the 1936 Berlin Olympics and who was later shot down over Italy fighting the Nazis, died June 16 in Hendersonville. He was 87.
        He died at Pardee Hospital, according to his sister, Dever Antes, after he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage while working on a book on his home computer.
        ''He had met Ernest Hemingway and had wanted to write stories like Hemingway's for a long time,'' said Ms. Antes, also of Hendersonville.
        Wayne was most remembered for the gold and silver medals he won for diving during the 1936 Olympics in Berlin.
        Ms. Antes said her brother met and spoke with Hitler, and that the Nazi leader was very displeased with Wayne for winning the gold medal in the platform diving competition. Wayne also won the silver medal in the 3-meter springboard diving.
        ''Hitler wanted his man from Germany to win it, so he wasn't too happy at all seeing my brother win,'' Ms. Antes recalled.
        Ms. Antes said the family did not get to go to the Olympics, but was waiting at the airport in Miami with a large crowd to welcome Wayne home. ''The whole city just adored him,'' she said. ''All of the people waiting to see him were so proud, and so were we.''
        She said the family lived in Miami close to a pool where Wayne did most of his practicing. He excelled at diving in high school and won several national honors and awards during his college years at the University of Miami.
        Ms. Antes has lived across town from her brother for the past 27 years, and she has been the keeper of all his mementos.
        Wayne's life was so filled with awards that his small house was hardly able to hold all the medals and memorabilia he had collected through the years, Ms. Antes said.
        In addition to his sister, Wayne is survived by his daughter, Marilyn Wayne of San Pedro, Calif.
        ''Of course, his daughter will be given those medals now,'' Ms. Antes said of the Olympic gold and silver. ''He had two daughters, actually, but one died a couple of years ago.''.
        Wayne served in World War II as a colonel in the Army Air Forces. During his service, his plane was shot down in Italy and Italians helped Wayne get to a British Aid Station and then to England for surgery.
        He was then flown to Miami Biltmore Hospital. The fall from the plane had torn several ligaments and tendons in his leg, but Wayne was determined to get back to flying.
        After many operations, Wayne would pack hot sand on his leg at the beach to help the healing process, his sister said.
        He became a Pan American Airways pilot, his sister said, and retired as a captain in 1972, the same year he moved to Hendersonville.
        His love for the Olympics landed him a spot on the 1996 Atlanta Olympic Committee.
        ''The Olympic torch was making a run through town and Wayne was invited to take part in the ceremony,'' Ms. Antes said.
        ''I'll never forget it. We had a police escort and everything. My brother was wearing a fake medal around his neck and when he climbed out of the car downtown, someone shouted, 'Hey where'd you get that medal?' And Marshall said, 'From the '36 Olympics in Berlin.' ''
      