
        Michael Lax, an industrial designer best known for the craftsman-like appreciation for texture and color that he brought to such household icons of the 1960's as the Copco teakettle with the bent teak handle and the Lightolier sphere-resting-on-a-cube mini-lamp, died on May 28 at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Jennifer.
        Though he turned to sculpture in midlife, Mr. Lax always had a serious, hands-on approach to his industrial design work. Whether it was the archetypal geometries of the Lytegem high-intensity mini-lamp for Lightolier or the rippling curve of his first glassware for Mikasa, his shapes encouraged both a visual and a tactile appreciation for shape.
        George Beylerian of Material Connexion, a New York research center for designers, said that Mr. Lax's red, blue and yellow cast-iron cookware for Copco ''was truly remarkable and innovative in the sense that he brought an international, slightly Scandinavian flair to American products.''
        ''He introduced enamel to cast iron and was truly responsible for helping to shape the shape of the 60's,'' Mr. Beylerian said.
        Mr. Lax also designed household products for Dansk, Rosenthal, Salton, Dunbar Glass, and, most recently, Metaal, for which he created sculptured aluminum bowls.
        ''His feeling for form was based upon his feelings about craft and the hand-made object,'' said Samuel Farber, the founder of Copco cookware and a longtime friend. And while Mr. Lax was a modernist, he strove to introduce a human element into his mass-produced objects. ''He always made his own plaster models,'' Mr. Farber said. ''He wanted to feel them as a craftsman would.''
        Mr. Lax was born on Nov. 8, 1929, in New York. He graduated in 1947 from the New York School of Music and Art and in 1951 from Alfred University in New York, where he honed his skills in modern ceramics techniques. It was there that he met Rosemary Raymond, whom he married in 1950. They were divorced in 1978.
        In 1954 Mr. Lax won a Fulbright Fellowship to Finland, where he immersed himself in the Scandinavian sensibility just as it was emerging as the most influential esthetic of the times for industrial design. Russel Wright, the American pioneer of modern product design, hired him in 1956 to work on a series of dinnerware designs. After working for Wright he pursued freelance work until 1960, when he started working on his famous line of enameled cast-iron cookware for Copco, including the 1962 teakettle with its bent teakwood handle, his most instantly recognizable design. He continued to contribute designs to Copco through the 1980's.
        His projects were not all for the kitchen. He designed and manufactured on his own a series of play equipment commissioned by U.S. Plywood, ''Cut Outs for Play.'' He called the wooden play sets ''discovery designs'' because they offered children new ways to interact on the playground.
        In 1964 he designed the Lygtegem for Lightolier, which is now part of the permanent design collection at the Museum of Modern Art. His product designs have often been exhibited in the United States and abroad, including the landmark ''Design Since 1945'' show at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1983.
        Mr. Lax received a Rome Prize in 1977 for studying art at the American Academy in Rome, and he returned to Italy in 1984 to pursue his passion for sculpture. He set up a part-time studio in the Tuscan town of Pietrasanta to work in marble and cast bronze pieces that were exhibited in a show at the Wainscott Gallery in the Hamptons last summer.
        In addition to his daughter Jennifer, of Los Angeles, he is survived by another daughter, Rebecca Lax, and a granddaughter, both of New York, and his companion, Kirsten Childs, an interior designer in New York.
        Correction:  June 14, 1999, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the industrial designer Michael Lax on June 5 misstated the date of his death. It was May 25, not May 28.
      