
        Henry Cohen, an urban planner, a retired dean at the New School for Social Research and a prominent New York City official in the Wagner and Lindsay administrations, died Thursday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 76.
        The cause was liver cancer, his family said.
        Dean Cohen served in the city government from 1950 to 1968. He was the First Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator of the Human Resources Administration before he joined the New School staff in 1968.
        He was appointed a professor of urban affairs and became the founding dean of what is now the Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy. He built the school into one of the foremost teaching centers of its kind in the country.
        Starting in 1968, he was the director and then dean of the Center for New York City Affairs. The center was merged into the Graduate School of Management and Urban Professions when it was established in 1975.
        Dean Cohen drew up innovative curriculums offering seven graduate professional degree programs. He recruited a faculty that trained a fresh generation of urban leaders and brought to life his concept of what he called ''new urban professions.'' Among them were urban policy analysis and management, human resources management, health management and policy, and nonprofit management.
        Henry Cohen was born in Manhattan, graduated from City College in 1942 and received a Master of City Planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1944. Toward the end of World War II, he fought in the Army's Ninth Infantry Division through the Huertgen Forest, the Battle of the Bulge and across the Rhine to occupied Leipzig.
        He worked with the postwar military government in Germany, then did postgraduate studies at the University of Iowa and Columbia University, taught urban sociology at City College and lectured at the University of Birmingham, England.
        In 1950, he joined the New York City government. He organized the research division in the Department of City Planning and directed it until 1955. He lectured on urban studies at Columbia's School of General Studies and School of Social Work, and did research for the New York Regional Plan Association.
        He was a Deputy City Administrator and senior management consultant, simultaneously, in the office of Mayor John V. Lindsay. He was appointed First Deputy Administrator and Acting Administrator at Human Resources in 1967, the year before he moved to the New School.
        Dean Cohen is survived by his wife of 50 years, Evelyn Fuhrman Cohen; a daughter, Alison Rose Levy of Brooklyn; a son, Daniel, of Needham, Mass.; a brother, Dr. Sidney Cohen of Manhattan; a sister, Margaret Weisman of the Washington area, and two granddaughters.
      