
        Dr. L. Joseph Butterfield, whose innovative care of newborns earned him a reputation as a pioneer of modern neonatology, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the Children's Hospital of Denver, where he spent more than 40 years in neonatology, the branch of medicine dealing with infants up to 2 months old.
        Dr. Butterfield established one of the country's first regional centers for perinatal care, a field involving the period closely surrounding the moment of birth. He also gave Children's Hospital an innovative hospice unit where families could be close to their dying infants.
        He vigorously propagated the work of Dr. Virginia Apgar, a pediatrician and anesthesiologist at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center who died in 1974, and helped win general acceptance of what is now known throughout the world as the Apgar score, which lets pediatricians assess the health of a child within five minutes of birth.
        Introduced by Dr. Apgar in 1953, the simple, inexpensive procedure appraises five vital functions to alert doctors to the need for intensive care.
        To assist health workers, Dr. Butterfield devised a mnemonic for the procedure: A -- appearance (skin color); P -- pulse; G -- grimace (reflexes); A -- activity, and R -- respiration.
        After Dr. Apgar's death, Dr. Butterfield led a 10-year campaign that persuaded the Postal Service to issue a commemorative stamp in her honor.
        L. Joseph Butterfield was born in Terre Haute, Ind., and grew up in Pana, Ill. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in biology at the University of New Mexico and moved to the University of Colorado Medical School to receive his medical degree in 1955. The next year, he began his affiliation with Children's Hospital in Denver as a pediatric resident.
        In 1965, the hospital asked Dr. Butterfield to set up its Children's Newborn Center and be its medical director. The center served a vast area and set a national pattern for regional perinatal care.
        His later influence in newborn and family matters went beyond the nursery, verging into advocacy on broader children's issues. He spent much time on a program in which he taught the intricacies of the legislative process to people hoping to use it on behalf of children.
        Dr. Butterfield is survived by his wife, Perry; a son and daughter, Bruce Butterfield and Tate Ulrich, both of Monument, Colo.; three brothers, Bernie, George and Dr. Donald Butterfield, all of Albuquerque, N.M., and four grandchildren.
        The hospice program Dr. Butterfield started at Children's Hospital in 1979 provided a private family space next to the neonatal intensive-care ward.
        ''The intensive-care unit can be a bizarre and impersonal place, with all of the monitors beeping and constant clatter,'' Dr. Butterfield said at the time. ''That's why it is important for a family to have a quiet place, to be alone with the baby.''
        For him it was a deeply felt matter, the remembrance of a child's death. ''When my own 23-year-old daughter died,'' he said, ''we were there at the end to hold her, to say goodbye.''
      