
        Olivier Debre, one of France's best-known abstract painters of the postwar era, whose large-format works include the stage curtain at the Comedie Francaise, died here on Tuesday. He was 79 and lived in Paris.
        Mr. Debre's form of abstract art, which he described as ''opposite to the geometric abstraction of the Cubism of Cezanne and Picasso,'' involved daring splashes of color applied with thick brush strokes intended to create a mood of sensuality and poetry.
        ''For me, painting and emotion are inseparable,'' he said at the time of his last major retrospective in Paris, in 1995 at the Galerie du Jeu de Paume on the Place de la Concorde. ''I can only paint with feeling.''
        President Jacques Chirac, Culture Minister Catherine Trautmann and former Culture Minister Jack Lang were among those paying homage to Mr. Debre today. ''Rigorous, passionate, demanding, he paved the way toward abstraction,'' Mr. Chirac said. ''His desire to convey his message made him a great teacher.''
        Mr. Debre was born in Paris into a prosperous professional family (his brother, Michel, became Prime Minister under President de Gaulle), and showed an early interest in art and architecture, studying briefly under Le Corbusier in 1939. He held shows of his paintings in Nazi-occupied Paris in 1940 and 1941 and in 1942 became part of Picasso's entourage.
        After the war he struck out on his own, forming part of a new generation of School of Paris painters, who included Pierre Soulages, Nicolas de Stael, Serge Poliakoff and Maria Elena Vieira da Silva. He began experimenting with large-format paintings and developed a fascination with space. ''For me painting is nothing more than time and color turned into space,'' he wrote in an essay called ''Space Imagined, Space Created.''
        Eager to evoke emotion through abstraction, he created what he called ''signes-personnages'' (figurative signs) and ''signes-paysages'' (landscape signs) that seemed to hint at recognizable forms. He used this approach in the monumental works for which he became most celebrated, starting with the vast ornamental paintings he did for the French pavilions at World's Fairs in Montreal in 1967 and in Osaka, Japan, in 1970.
        In the 1980's and 90's he decorated the stage curtains not only of the Comedie Francaise but also of the Hong Kong Opera, the new Shanghai Opera and the Theatre des Abbesses in Paris. In 1997 he also designed the decor and costumes for a ballet by Carolyn Carlson presented at the Bastille Opera.
        Mr. Debre is survived by his wife, Denise; a son, Patrice, and a daughter, Sylvie.
      