
        Bruno Caravaggi, the suave co-owner of Quo Vadis, one of New York's most fashionable Continental restaurants for almost four decades before its demise in 1984, died on May 30 at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens.
        Mr. Caravaggi and his partner, Gino Robusti, opened their plush restaurant on East 63d Street between Madison and Park Avenues in 1946, and almost immediately it became a fashionable destination, a favorite of celebrities like Princess Grace, Jacqueline Kennedy, Frank Sinatra, Truman Capote, Nat (King) Cole and Diana Vreeland.
        Within two years of its opening, a guide called ''Knife and Fork in New York'' described Quo Vadis as ''a delightful new restaurant unveiled by a couple of young paragons of politeness whose virtuosity as suggesters, carvers, servers and general pleasers is quite extraordinary.'' Craig Claiborne, writing in The New York Times, called it one of the finest kitchens in Manhattan, with polished service, when he awarded it four stars in 1968.
        The restaurant, opulently decorated with columns and red velvet, is also remembered for the Italian mosaics in the entry and on the sidewalk. Quo Vadis occupied the site of the original Brussels Restaurant, where the two partners had worked. Mr. Caravaggi and Mr. Robusti appeared every evening in tuxedos and expected their male diners to wear jackets and ties.
        Bruno Caravaggi was born in 1916 in Castel San Giovanni, Italy, and began his restaurant career as a busboy in London while still in his teens. He then worked at Spa, in Belgium, where he met his future partner, and the two came to New York in 1939 on one of the last liners  out of Europe before World War II began. Soon after their arrival, they joined the staff of the Belgian Pavilion at the World's Fair and later went on to the Brussels Restaurant.
        The men sold Quo Vadis in 1982 but when the new owners filed for bankruptcy in little more a year, Mr. Caravaggi and Mr. Robusti came out of retirement and resumed its operation. They closed it in 1984.
        Mr. Caravaggi is survived by his wife, Anita; a son, Robert, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claudette Dukas of Forest Hills, Queens; a sister, Angelina Meriggi of Castel San Giovanni, and two grandsons.
      