
        Judge J. Edward Lumbard Jr., whose career as a lawyer, prosecutor and jurist spanned eight decades, highlighted by his 1955 appointment by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, died on Thursday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 97.
        As a young lawyer, he worked with William J. Donovan, the director of the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor of the Central Intelligence Agency. He also worked with Thomas E. Dewey as chief assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan and investigated many scandals. He also was an assistant campaign manager for Mr. Dewey's second unsuccessful campaign for President in 1944.
        ''He was one of the most major figures in the long history of the courts in the Second Circuit and the development of the body of law in this circuit,'' said Judge Ralph K. Winter, the current chief of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Second Circuit covers New York, Connecticut and Vermont.
        Joseph Edward Lumbard Jr. was born on Aug. 18, 1901, in Harlem. He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School in 1918, Harvard College in 1922 and Harvard Law School in 1925.
        He returned to New York in 1925 as an assistant in the office of the United States Attorney in Manhattan. In 1928, Gov. Alfred E. Smith, responding to allegations of sewage construction kickbacks in Queens, appointed Emory R. Buckner as a special prosecutor. Mr. Buckner named John M. Harlan as his chief assistant, and Mr. Lumbard, in turn, became Mr. Harlan's assistant.
        The investigation led to numerous indictments, including that of the Queens Borough President. It also sparked a close friendship between Mr. Lumbard and Mr. Harlan, who later became a Justice of the United States Supreme Court. Indeed, the two were men's doubles champions at the Fairfield Country Club in 1940. Judge Lumbard took Justice Harlan's Court of Appeals seat in 1955, when he joined the Supreme Court.
        After the Queens sewer scandal, Mr. Lumbard, from 1931 to 1933, was the chief of the criminal division for the United States Attorney's office, under Mr. Dewey. In 1933, he became a founding partner in the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Lumbard. In 1935, at the behest of the American Civil Liberties Union, he took on, pro bono, a well-publicized case and helped win acquittal of 10 Mexicans who had been accused of murdering a sheriff in New Mexico.
        The next year, he again left private practice to be the chief assistant to Hiram C. Todd, who had been appointed by Gov. Herbert H. Lehman to investigate the beating and strangling of Samuel Drukman, a garage worker, and a Brooklyn grand jury's subsequent refusal to indict three men linked to the killing. The men were later convicted of second-degree murder.
        In 1943, Mr. Lumbard was a special assistant attorney general in charge of a newly formed election frauds bureau. He also took a temporary appointment in 1947 as a State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan.
        Ten years later, he left private practice and for two years was the United States Attorney in Manhattan before being appointed to the Court of Appeals in 1955. He became the chief judge there in 1959 and remained in that capacity until 1971, when he became a senior judge.
        During his tenure, he made many changes in the management and administration of the court system. He was the first chief judge to schedule appellate arguments on a specific date, a step that helped insure that judges who would be hearing the appeal were familiar with the case.
        ''He was an inspirational mentor to many of the most outstanding judges and lawyers in the city,'' said Robert B. Fiske Jr., a former United States Attorney, who in 1954, while a student, worked in Judge Lumbard's office when he was the United States Attorney from 1953 to 1955.
        In 1974, Chief Justice Warren E. Burger named Judge Lumbard to the Special Court of Appeals responsible for appointing independent counsels. He resigned that position in 1980.
        From 1964 to 1968, Mr. Lumbard was chairman of the American Bar Association's Committee to Develop Minimum Standards for Criminal Justice. In 1968, he was awarded the A.B.A.'s Gold Medal for his contributions to justice administration.
        He was an overseer of Harvard University from 1959 to 1969.
        His wife, Polly Poindexter, died in 1997. He is survived by a daughter, Abigail, of Seattle; a son, Thomas, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      