
        Ernie Wilkins, a jazz saxophonist and one of the important arrangers and composers for the Count Basie band of the 1950's, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Copenhagan. He was 79 and lived in Copenhagen.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Jenny.
        Born in St. Louis, Mr. Wilkins studied music at Wilberforce University in Ohio. During a stint in the military, he played in a band led by Willie Smith and was soon playing in Earl Hines's last big band, for which he was also writing.
        Mr. Wilkins composed a great deal of music, but he could also tailor the  pieces of others to the talents of whatever band he was working with. This was especially obvious in the  New Testament Basie band (representing the second great stretch of its leader's creativity), which Mr. Wilkins was invited to join in 1951, on the recommendation of the trumpeter Clark Terry.
        As a member of the band until the late 50's, Mr. Wilkins reworked versions of ''One O'Clock Jump,'' ''Every Day I Have the Blues'' and ''Corner Pocket,'' making them some of the most famous tunes in the group's repertory. His arrangements were precise and exuberant, made of interlocking riffs and strong ensemble passages. Mr. Wilkins ''had a lot to do with how the band began to sound,'' Basie wrote in his memoir, ''Good Morning Blues.''
        In 1956 Mr. Wilkins performed in and wrote arrangements for a Dizzy Gillespie band that toured the Middle East and South America. In the 1960's he wrote for bands led by Harry James, Mr. Terry and his  brother, the trombonist Jimmy Wilkins. In the early 1970's he entered the record business, heading the artists and repertory division of the Mainstream label. He also wrote a choral suite in 1975 called ''Four Black Immortals,'' which was performed at Town Hall and Avery Fisher Hall in New York.
        He moved to Cophenhagen in 1980 and promptly started the 13-piece Almost Big Band, which drew on the talent of other American expatriates in Denmark, including the pianist Kenny Drew, the saxophonist Sahib Shihab and the drummer Ed Thigpen. Mr. Wilkins conducted and played saxophone for the Almost Big Band and wrote entirely new music for it. The band recorded four albums on the Steeplechase label, and stayed together until Mr. Wilkins suffered a stroke in 1991 that forced him to retire. His last record, with the Danish Radio Big Band, was ''Suite for Jazz Band,'' on the Hep label.
        Besides his wife and his brother, of Las Vegas, Mr. Wilkins is survived by his stepchildren, Charlotte and Thomas, both of Copenhagen.
      