
        Myron Weiner, a political scientist whose studies of migration, ethnic conflicts and child labor in the developing world reflected moral purposes and influenced practical policy, died last Thursday at his home in Moretown, Vt. He was 68.
        The cause was brain cancer, said a spokesman for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Mr. Weiner had been a professor of political science for 38 years, until his retirement last April.
        Originally specializing in Indian politics, Mr. Weiner wrote 32 books, comparing data on political, social and economic issues in much of the developing world.
        The data he uncovered often ran counter to received wisdom on issues like the practicality of widening education in the poorest of countries. He applied dry data and scholarly language to passionate issues without becoming polemical.
        For example, in the 1950's, he became interested in the comparisons, then widespread, between the comparative growth rates of a dictatorial but allegedly disciplined Communist China and a democratic India generally perceived to be slovenly. Drawn by India's commitment to democracy, he traveled extensively throughout the country to observe how political parties were formed and structured and how they developed deep roots even in the most remote of villages.
        Over the years, Mr. Weiner moved further afield, writing about ethnic violence, the formation of nativist and religious-based political movements and the flight of refugees.
        Though he was not an anthropologist, he went beyond examining texts as he interviewed thousands of ordinary people, asking basic questions to establish, for example, what level of violence led people to leave their ancestral homes.
        Using such techniques, Mr. Weiner wrote ''The Child and the State in India,'' a volume published by Princeton University Press in 1991, which many of his colleagues believe changed the terms of the debate on child labor in India and elsewhere.
        ''It was his crowning achievement,'' said Professor Jadish Bhagwati, a Columbia University economist who had known Mr. Weiner since the mid-1950's.
        ''It made all of us think about the question of illiteracy, economists like myself and Indian decision makers,'' said Mr. Bhagwati.
        Before Dr. Weiner's work, which was subtitled ''Child Labor and Education Policy in Comparative Perspective,'' the general view of many politicians was that India was simply too poor to do very much about either child labor or the lack of universal access to education. The thinking was that poor parents sent their children to work to help the family budget and this was not likely to change until incomes rose.
        Mr. Weiner countered by presenting historical arguments showing that in poor 19th-century societies like Scotland, reforms expanding education, which were spurred by religious ideals, preceded rather than followed higher incomes. Even more convincingly, his charts showed that countries much poorer than India, including a number in Africa, had done a better contemporary job than India in reducing illiteracy and extending education. In the book, China, the country to which India has so often been compared and to which it often compares itself, was also shown to have done better than India.
        Mr. Bhagwati noted that even as Mr. Weiner was gathering material, he was bringing facts to the attention of important officials who had thought they knew the situation.
        ''He told me that he had a meeting with the man who was the chief civil servant in charge of education in New Delhi,'' Mr. Bhagwati recalled. ''The two argued over whether there was compulsory education or not in India. Myron said there wasn't and the Secretary insisted there was a constitutional provision. Eventually Myron pointed out to him the language that the Secretary had assumed to be a guarantee merely enabled the various states to pass their own legislation to provide compulsory education, which most of them had not done.''
        Joshua Cohen, the chairman of the Department of Political Science at M.I.T., said that the book had a profound impact in India. ''Here was a work, written by a friend of India, which presented irrefutable facts. It presented comparative statistics, and while it raised moral issues, it was not written as a moral diatribe.''
        Mr. Bhagwati said that the economic implication of the book was that efforts were needed to make poor people realize that the education of their children was a useful investment rather than a burden. He said the book helped to spur economists to recommend policies aimed at higher national growth rates and more investment in education of the poor.
        Mr. Weiner was born in New York City and graduated from City College in 1951. He earned a master's at Princeton in 1953 and a doctorate there in 1955. He taught at Princeton and at the University of Chicago before moving to M.I.T. in 1961.
        Among Mr. Weiner's more recent books were ''The Global Migration Crisis: Challenge to States and to Human Rights'' (HarperCollins, 1995), ''Threatened People, Threatened Borders: World Migration and U.S. Policy'' (W. Norton), which he edited in 1995 and ''The State and Social Transformation in Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan'' (Syracuse University Press) of which he was co-editor, in 1994.
        He served as a consultant to the State Department and the World Bank and since 1966 had been chairman of an advisory committee to United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
        Mr. Weiner is survived by his wife, Sheila Leiman Weiner; a son, Saul, of Chicago and a daughter, Beth Datskovsky of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      