
        William Everest Ryan, a Federal prosecutor who in the 1960's helped obtain the criminal conviction of James R. Hoffa, the teamsters' president, died on May 28 at a health care center in Baltimore. He was 78 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        The cause was a neurological disorder, said his son Patrick Edward Ryan.
        After joining the Department of Justice in 1957, Mr. Ryan was assigned by Attorney General William P. Rogers to explore potentially incriminating activities by Hoffa. Mr. Ryan traveled extensively, concentrating his investigation on land-development deals in Florida.
        The investigation was given an enormous boost in the early 1960's when Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy organized a group of prosecutors headed by Walter Sheridan and John Cassidy to move against Hoffa. Mr. Ryan played an important role in that investigation, Mr. Cassidy said.
        In 1964, the Justice Department successfully prosecuted Hoffa for jury tampering and mail and wire fraud in connection with the illegal use of the union pension fund. Hoffa was sentenced to eight years in prison. He disappeared in 1975, four years after being released.
        In 1968, Attorney General Ramsey Clark named Mr. Ryan to head a new section of the Justice Department that had been created to deal with the nation's growing drug problem. Until retiring in 1975, Mr. Ryan was engaged in revising laws on narcotics and other dangerous drugs. From 1975 to 1977, he was assistant inspector general for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
        Mr. Ryan, a native of Milwaukee,  graduated from Marquette University and received a law degree from Georgetown University. He served in the Marine Corps in the Pacific in World War II and was recalled to active duty in the Korean War.
        Mr. Ryan's wife, the former Rosemary Ann Kelly, died in 1996. In addition to his son Patrick, he is survived by four daughters, Kathleen A. Ryan of Catonsville, Md., Mary Frances Timm of Palm Harbor, Fla., Sheila Ryan Arrildt of Severn, N.C., and Rebecca S. Doss of Salisbury, Md.; another son, William Kelly Ryan of Silver Spring; a sister, Catherine Provost of Prospect Heights, Ill., and 13 grandchildren.
      