
        William R. Hess, a microbiologist and a leading expert in African swine fever, died on May 29 at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 82, and lived in Tuftonboro, N.H.
        Dr. Hess spent his life researching how to prevent and control the kinds of diseases that, if unleashed, can quickly ravage populations of domesticated animals.
        He was often abroad; but when he was not, he worked at the Animal Disease Center, a top-security facility run by the United States Department of Agriculture on Plum Island, off the North Fork of Long Island.
        For years, recalled his son Brian, Dr. Hess would drive from his home in East Marion, on the North Fork, to Orient Point, for the nearly two-mile commute by boat to the island.
        Plum Island is home to a collection of some of the most infectious animal diseases in the world, and the Government goes to great lengths to insure that they are not inadvertently carried to the mainland. Employees there work in ''negative pressure'' laboratories designed to stop pathogens from escaping and are required to disinfect themselves at the start and end of their work day.
        Dr. Hess's speciality, African swine fever, is a rapidly spreading, usually deadly disease found in pigs. Its presence has never been confirmed in North America.
        Dr. Hess worked on Plum Island from 1953 to 1988. In the mid-1980's he was part of a team of scientists called upon to investigate a theory that the disease might have a connection with AIDS. Some scientists said they had seen a correlation between swine fever outbreaks and incidents of AIDS in Africa and Haiti. But the theory was ruled out.
        ''We agreed that there was no connection between these two viruses,'' Dr. Hess said in 1986.
        Dr. Hess, who was born in St. Paul,  received his doctorate from the University of Minnesota. He traveled extensively in South America, Africa  and Asia, and, with his family, lived in Kenya for three years starting in 1960.
        In addition to his son Brian, of New York, he is survived by his wife, Caroline; another son, Robert, of Sag Harbor, N.Y.; two brothers, Lewis and Joseph, and four grandchildren.
      