
        DeForest Kelley, the crotchety country doctor who healed countless human and nonhuman patients as Dr. Leonard McCoy on the science fiction series ''Star Trek,'' died yesterday at the Motion Pictures and Television Fund Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79, and had last donned a space uniform in 1991 for yet another ''Star Trek'' film sequel.
        Although he appeared in 150 earth-bound films and television shows, including roles in the ''Lone Ranger,'' ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Bonanza,'' Mr. Kelley was best known as the crusty physician on the U.S.S. Enterprise, known by Trekkies as ''Bones,'' who was Captain Kirk's confidante and Mr. Spock's occasional sparring partner.
        Most viewers remember him for a single phrase, addressed to Captain Kirk when asked to perform feats beyond his job description: ''Damn it Jim,'' he would say with exasperation, ''I'm a just a country doctor.'' The other line viewers could count on was ''He's dead, Jim.''
        Through three decades of reruns and the six film sequels, Dr. McCoy remained one of the most popular characters on the show and fans appreciated his plain-spoken humanity, especially as a foil to Mr. Spock's cool Vulcan logic.
        Before Gene Roddenberry cast him in the first Star Trek episode in 1966, Mr. Kelley often played bad guys in police dramas or Westerns with titles like ''Town Tamer'' and ''Apache Uprising.''
        Born on Jan. 20, 1920, in Atlanta as the son of a Baptist minister, Mr. Kelley had planned on becoming a doctor just like the uncle who had delivered him. But his family could not afford to send him to medical school and he began singing on local radio shows.
        As a teen-ager he moved to Long Beach, Calif., where he lived with an uncle. He worked as an elevator operator and an usher and later performed in theater groups and on the radio.
        In 1941, he lost out to Alan Ladd for the part of the baby-faced killer in ''This Gun for Hire.''
        A year later, while playing a beach bum in ''The Innocent Young Man'' with the Long Beach Theater Group, he met the woman he would marry, Carolyn Dowling, who co-starred in the play. The couple celebrated their 54th wedding anniversary last year. She is his only survivor.
        After serving in the Army Air Forces in New Mexico during World War II, he was transferred to Culver City to act in a Navy training film, ''Time to Kill.''
        It turned into one of the biggest breaks of Mr. Kelley's career. A Paramount scout spotted him in the film, which led to a three-year contract with the studio producing low-budget movies.
        A decade later, he appeared in a television pilot written by a former police officer, Mr. Roddenberry. It did not sell, but it led to the ''Star Trek'' series.
        After the last episode was made in 1969 when the series was canceled by NBC because of poor ratings, Mr. Kelley appeared in the six film sequels and delighted his fans by showing up at innumerable Star Trek conventions.
        After the last of the series, ''The Undiscovered Country,'' he retired from acting.
        In an interview with The Houston Chronicle last year, Mr. Kelley admitted that he never liked the science fiction genre and that he never watched the sequel to the television series.
        Asked what he thought his legacy would be, he said that had inspired a great number of people to enter the medical profession.
        ''These people are doctors now, all kinds of doctors who save lives,'' he said. ''That's something that very few people can say they've done. I'm proud to say that I have.''
      