
        John Calhoun Baker, president emeritus of Ohio University, who guided it through the burgeoning enrollment when the veterans of World War II surged in under the G.I. Bill, died on Wednesday at a retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where he moved three years ago. A former resident of Essex Fells, N.J., he was 103.
        Mr. Baker retired in 1961 after 16 years as Ohio University's 14th president, but he remained a figure on the Athens campus, whose student center bears his name. He paid his last visit to be feted there on his 100th birthday.
        He took up the presidency in 1945 with a mandate from Gov. Frank Lausche to make room for the returning veterans. Enrollment grew during his presidency to more than 8,000 students from 1,500.
        Necessity made him one of the first college administrators to develop the regional campus network to avoid crowding at Athens. He oversaw the addition of 32 major buildings and the start of ambitious research and doctoral programs.
        One of his initial decisions stopped the demolition of Cutler Hall, which opened in 1818 and was the oldest academic building in the former Northwest Territory. It was restored and became the seat of Ohio University's central administration.
        Robert Glidden, president of the university, said Mr. Baker ''was, in a sense, the founder of modern Ohio University,'' from whose initiatives grew the system of five regional campuses and the University Foundation. Established in 1945 to finance research, scholarships and grants,  the foundation has raised more than $300 million.
        Born in Everett, Pa., Mr. Baker graduated from Juniata College in 1917 and earned an M.B.A. at Harvard University in 1923. He was the author of several books and many articles on business administration and, after his retirement from Ohio University, was a corporate director of several companies.
        He started his career at the Harvard Business School as a researcher, instructor, assistant dean and professor of business administration. From 1939 to 1945 he wass associate dean of Harvard University.
        He and his wife endowed the Baker Peace Studies Program at Ohio University in 1982.
        Mr. Baker's wife, Elizabeth Evans Baker, died in 1990. He is survived by three daughters, Elizabeth C. Baker, Eleanor B. Steindler and Anne C. Baker, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      