
        Raphael Recanati, an Israeli-American shipping and banking figure better known in New York for his philanthropic largesse -- particularly as a mainstay of Beth Israel Medical Center -- died last Friday in the medical center. He was 75 and lived on the Upperast Side and in Herzliyah, Israel.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, Beth Israel said.
        Mr. Recanati was a pillar of Israel's private economy, with interests in the high-tech, shipping, commerce and banking fields. He was a key figure in attracting foreign investment to its high-tech industries.
        He fostered the growth of Israel from its very beginning by using his knowledge of shipping to supply it with munitions, food or whatever else foreign shippers would not deliver at the time. At his death he was chairman of the IDB Group, an offspring of the Israel Discount Bank, which his family founded in 1935.
        In this country, his main business engine was the Overseas Shipholding Group of New York, owner-operators of a fleet of oceangoing bulk vessels. He was its founding chairman and, at his death, chairman of its finance and development committee.
        He contributed to educational, cultural and especially medical institutions both in Israel and the United States. In New York, the main recipient of his largesse was Beth Israel, whose educational and research missions he bolstered in many ways.
        The medical center saw his hand in the advances it could make in such fields of specialized medicine as cardiology, liver research, neurology, pulmonary medicine, dermatology, orthopedic surgery, pediatrics and infectious diseases. He supported its Heart Institute, the Recanati Cardiology Research Fund and the Recanati/Horowitz Cardiology Diagnostic Reseach Fund.
        He helped other institutions as well. Mount Sinai School of Medicine has a Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute. Harvard University Medical School gained an endowed chair with a Recanati Professorship in Immunology.
        He was honored as a Guardian of Yeshiva University, which now has Recanati Israel Student Exchange Fellowships and a Recanati course in Cabala at Yeshiva and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Seminary. Those counting on his regular support also included the UJA-Federation Annual Campaigns, the Beilinson Medical Center in Israel, and the Recanati School of Business at Tel Aviv University. He was a trustee of the Weizman Institute of Science, Tel Aviv University, and the American support groups of Tel Aviv and Ben Gurion Universities.
        Raphael Recanati's family was from Salonika, Greece, where he was born. They went to Palestine in 1935. After finishing high school, Raphael Recanati joined the Palmach, a Jewish unit fighting for the creation of Israel.
        He learned about shipping on a secret mission to Egypt's Jewish community, and when Israel declared its independence in 1948 he founded the Israel-America Shipping Line. The company was active also in New York and evolved into the present Overseas Shipholding Group.
        Mr. Recanati also formed an American branch of the family bank, Israel Discount Bank of New York, which he built into the most profitable Israeli overseas bank. He was a co-founder in 1970 of the investment arm of IDB Group and, through subsidiaries, established Discount Investment Corporation and PEC Israel Economic Corporation New York.
        His business savvy spawned hundreds of enterprises in Israel. It also produced a scandal over allegations of securities fraud and manipulation of bank stock prices. A Jerusalem court sentenced Mr. Recanati to eight months in prison in the mid-1980's, but the case was thrown out on appeal.
        Mr. Recanati is survived by his wife of 53 years, Dina Hettena Recanati; two sons, Oudi, of Israel, the chairman of IDB Holdings, and Michael, of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      