
        John Wesley Mayhew Whiting, a professor emeritus of social anthropology at Harvard who studied learning processes and child development in varying societies, died on May 13 at home in Chilmark, Mass., in the house where he was born on Martha's Vineyard. He was 90.
        Dr. Whiting and his wife of 60 years, Beatrice Blyth Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, formed one of the most enduring husband-wife teams in their discipline, and, although he retired from teaching in 1978, they continued with a cross-cultural field study of adolescence into the 1980's. His most important research papers, with new introductions, were also reprinted after his retirement, and in 1994 Cambridge University Press published ''Culture and Human Development,'' his memoir with selected papers.
        Dr. Whiting graduated in 1931 from Yale University, where he was captain of the wrestling team, then  earned a doctorate in sociology and anthropology there in 1938. He was on the staff of the Institute of Human Relations at Yale until 1947, with time out for wartime service in the Navy. He moved to Harvard's new Laboratory of Human Development in the Graduate School of Education in 1949, served as its director for a time and was named the first Bigelow Professor of Education in 1960. He became professor of social anthropology three years later.
        His field work led to the publication of ''Becoming a Kwoma: Teaching and Learning in a New Guinea Tribe'' in 1941. His studies of child behavior and parental practices sought common features of development in diverse societies.
        He and his wife developed a course that became a training base in comparative child development for Harvard graduate students.
        The Whitings also founded and directed the Child Development Research Unit at the University of Nairobi, which conducted field studies in Kenya and brought Kenyans to Harvard for graduate training.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Whiting is survived by their daughter, Susan Whiting of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      