
        Thomas W. Binford, an Indianapolis businessman who was a co-founder of that city's Urban League and who helped steer the Indianapolis 500 through two crises, died on Thursday in Indianapolis. He was 74.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Mr. Binford was stricken on Wednesday at the downtown Indianapolis office of Binford and Associates, his management consulting firm, and died at Methodist Hospital.
        Mr. Binford, an Indianapolis native, was one of the city's leaders in civil rights, education and downtown development. As chairman of Indiana National Bank, which was purchased in 1992 by NBD Bancorp of Detroit, he saw it through a rocky period in the mid-1970's caused by failed real-estate loans.
        After helping establish the Urban League of Indianapolis in 1965, he was its chairman twice, and also was chairman of numerous companies.
        From 1956 to 1969 he was president of the United States Auto Club, which was the Indianapolis 500's sanctioning body, and was chief steward of the race from 1974 to 1995. In each role, he helped keep the race going.
        After an accident killed more than 100 spectators during the 1955 24-hour sports car race in Le Mans, the American Automobile Association decided to end its role as overseer of auto racing competition in the United States. The pullout left the Indianapolis 500 with no sanctioning group to set the rules and see that they were enforced. To fill that void, the United States Auto Club was formed, with Mr. Binford as one of its founders.
        Mr. Binford was called back to the Indianapolis 500 after the chaotic, rain-delayed 1973 race, which included crashes that killed two drivers and a crew member and injured 11 spectators. Public sentiment ran strongly against the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, with some newspaper editorials questioning whether the track should be shut down. The blame fell upon the chief steward, Harlan Fengler, although the speedway itself had safety shortcomings outside his control. Six days before the 1974 race, Mr. Binford was chosen to replace Mr. Fengler.
        Mr. Binford made procedural changes that, along with upgrades to the track, eased safety concerns. And he did not hesitate to make decisions that might cause an uproar, as two episodes demonstrated.
        The day after the 1981 race, Mr. Binford penalized the apparent winner, Bobby Unser, one lap for an illegal pass, a ruling that gave the victory to Mario Andretti. It would have been the only time since the race began in 1911 that an apparent winner had his victory taken away. But in October of that year, Mr. Binford's ruling was overturned on appeal, and Mr. Unser was reinstated as the winner.
        ''It wasn't hard to call,'' Mr. Binford said later of the penalty, ''except you knew the minute you called it you were in for a lot of problems.''
        In his final race as chief steward in 1995, Mr. Binford gave a black flag to the leader, Scott Goodyear, with a handful of laps remaining after Goodyear passed the pace car too soon. That gave the victory to Jacques Villeneuve and brought bitter criticism from Goodyear. Videotape replays supported the ruling.
        Mr. Binford is survived by his wife, Kai; a son, Wilson C. Binford of Zionsville, Ind.; a daughter, Florence W. Kichler of Carmel, Ind.; a stepdaughter, Linda Kai Miller; a stepson, Bryan Irwin, and a sister, Virginia Binford Turner.
      