
        Henry Grunfeld, a refugee from Nazi Germany who helped his fellow expatriate Siegmund G. Warburg build an investment banking empire that transformed the British financial world after World War II, died Thursday. He was 95.
        Mr. Grunfeld was a senior adviser to Warburg Dillon Read, the successor firm to S. G. Warburg. Until the day before his death, he reported daily for work at the firm's headquarters in London.
        He told The Financial Times shortly after his 90th birthday that he continued working ''because I enjoy it -- because it's healthy and because I can make a contribution.''
        Mr. Grunfeld's presence provided rare continuity to a firm that has seen its ownership change markedly, as investment banking has grown from a world of smaller, specialized firms into a business of global giants.
        ''We all benefited from his commitment to continue working with us,'' said Marcel Ospel, chief executive of UBS A.G., the Swiss bank that is now the parent company of Warburg Dillon Read. ''He will be very much missed.''
        Throughout their long association, which began in London in 1935 and ended with Sir Siegmund's death in 1982, Mr. Grunfeld left the public stage and newspaper headlines to his more flamboyant and mercurial partner. But his steady skepticism and painstaking intellect were crucial to the success of the firm, historians and banking veterans agree.
        The firm carried the Warburg name ''but 'Warburg, Grunfeld & Company' would have been the more accurate style,'' said Sir David Scholey, a former chairman of the firm, in an essay published in The Financial Times yesterday.
        The author Ron Chernow, who chronicled the history of the Warburg family, said that Mr. Grunfeld brought a wariness from his refugee experience that his sometimes credulous partner lacked. Moreover, Mr. Grunfeld, a lawyer by training, was a superb technician whose mastery of financial details gave reality to his partner's brilliant if sometimes vague dreams.
        On Wall Street, it is a truism that a successful firm needs both convivial salesmanship and backstage expertise. And from the first, S. G. Warburg ''followed the classic pattern -- a brilliant, visionary and socially active 'Mr. Outside' and a very intense and hard-working, introverted 'Mr. Inside,' '' Mr. Chernow said yesterday. ''Henry Grunfeld was the consummate Mr. Inside.''
        The results of this marriage of quiet skill and volatile energy were ''really nothing short of miraculous,'' Mr. Chernow continued. ''In a world that was anti-German, anti-Semitic and hostile to the sort of innovation that these men represented -- and despite their status as outsiders, as German Jewish refugees -- they were able in a single generation to build a firm that became one of the most powerful financial houses in London.''
        In 1958, the Warburg firm initiated the first hostile takeover in British-American finance, the acquisition of British Aluminium by a trans-Atlantic joint venture led by the American company Reynolds Metals. Such fights would become a regular feature of the American market, but the British establishment was shocked and shaken by the raid.
        Although British Aluminium enlisted the persuasive powers of the Bank of England in its defense, in January 1959 the Warburg forces won ''the aluminum war.'' According to Mr. Chernow's account, Mr. Grunfeld once explained the firm's success by saying, ''We just didn't make any mistakes, and the other side did.''
        In the early 60's, the firm capitalized on the United States' restrictive tax policies by helping create the euro market, where dollar-denominated bonds could be traded outside the United States market. That innovation gave London a much-needed lift in its financial competition with New York and established a thriving global marketplace that remains an important feature of modern finance today.
        Henry Grunfeld was born in 1904 in Breslau, Germany -- now the Polish city of Wroclaw -- where his family had substantial steel and chemical interests. He set out to study law, but devoted himself instead to rescuing the family business from the punishing hyperinflation that engulfed Germany after World War I.
        His success made his early reputation in Germany's steel industry, but could not protect him and his Jewish family from Nazi hostility. In 1934, the Grunfeld fortune was seized by the Government, and Mr. Grunfeld was briefly detained by the Gestapo in Berlin. He won his release by citing his status as an honorary Spanish consul, and promptly went into hiding to prepare his escape.
        The next year in Britain, he learned that another German exile, Siegmund Warburg of the well-established banking family in Hamburg, was in London seeking someone with industrial experience to help him form a new financial firm. The two men met and became partners in the New Trading Company, which in 1946 changed its name to S. G. Warburg.
        Mr. Grunfeld became chairman of the firm when Sir Siegmund retired in 1964. In 1974, he retired from the chairmanship but held the office of president until 1995, when the company was acquired by UBS. He then became a senior adviser.
        Mr. Grunfeld married Berta Lotte Oliven in 1931, and was the father of two children. His daughter died in 1986; he is survived by a son.
      