
        Kenneth Sidney Davis, the author of a four-volume biography of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jean.
        Mr. Davis did not belong to the fraternity of trained historians. Yet, like Shelby Foote, another nonacademic chronicler of the past, Mr. Davis had a respect for detail and an understanding of the sweep and the interlocking significance of events.
        ''He had a real grasp of the historical craft,'' said Alan Brinkley, a professor of history at Columbia University. The Roosevelt work is ''a wonderful narrative biography and probably the most thorough.''
        The volumes of Mr. Davis's ''FDR'' biography -- ''The Beckoning of Destiny, 1882-1928,'' ''The New York Years, 1928-1933,'' ''The New Deal Years, 1933-1937'' and ''Into the Storm, 1937-1940'' -- were a lifetime project, representing more than 30 years of labor.
        Mr. Davis traced Roosevelt's transformation from a Hudson Valley aristocrat with an instinctive conservatism to the architect of the New Deal. He argued that it was Roosevelt's exposure to the liberal traditions of New York State politics,  child welfare reform and trade unionism that made possible his radical transformation.
        But in writing about Roosevelt,  Mr. Davis did not fall prey to the biographer's occupational hazard of being awed by his subject. He was unstinting in his assessment of Roosevelt's character, seeing him as  at once charming and aloof, superficial and profound, idealistic and opportunistic, even at times capable of ''a thin, steely edged cruelty.''
        Mr. Davis criticized Roosevelt for his refusal to support antilynching legislation in Congress and for not  coming to the aid of the Jews in World War II. He found fault with his attempt to pack the Supreme Court,  his ''isolationist sentiments'' during the 1930's and particularly his failure to take early action against Japanese aggression in China.
        ''Mr. Davis's picture of a cautious, ineffective leader is overdrawn,'' Robert Dallek wrote in a 1993 review of ''Into the Storm'' in The New York Times. Nonetheless, he added, the work, ''despite its many questionable judgments, will take its place in the Roosevelt literature as a standard against which other, more sympathetic historians will have to argue.''
        In addition to his Roosevelt biography, Mr. Davis was the author, co-author or editor of some 20 books, including biographies of Dwight D. Eisenhower, Charles A. Lindbergh and Adlai E. Stevenson. In his early life, however, Mr. Davis seemed destined for a career in agriculture rather than history. Born in Salina, Kan., where his father was a college professor, Mr. Davis was educated at the Kansas State University of Agriculture and Applied Science (now Kansas State University). He received a master's degree in science at the University of Wisconsin. After working briefly as a reporter at The Topeka Daily Capital in Kansas, he became an information specialist at the Soil Conservation Service in the Midwest, where he worked until 1942.
        During World War II, Mr. Davis was a war correspondent for Doubleday & Company, attached to the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in London and  Normandy. After the war, he became a public relations assistant to Milton Eisenhower, the younger brother of Dwight D. Eisenhower, at the United States Commission for Unesco. In 1955, he was a speechwriter for Stevenson. When asked to name his favorite among his three biographical subjects, Lindbergh, Roosevelt or Stevenson, Mr. Davis answered: ''Adlai Stevenson. He would have made a great President.''
        Mr. Davis's first wife, Marie Olenhouse, died in 1988. Two years later, he married Jean Dormer. He is also survived by a sister, Ella Rae Friel of Sacramento, Calif., and a stepdaughter, Jane Mitchell of Milwaukee.
        When Mr. Davis began writing his Roosevelt biography he was determined, he said, to make it only one volume. Instead, he said, ''my first volume grew and grew.'' In December, he finished a fifth volume, ''The War President.''
        ''The book was finished,'' his wife said yesterday. ''We left for Arizona.  And there the cancer was diagnosed.'' Robert Loomis, Mr. Davis's editor at Random House, said he did not know when the last volume would be published.
      