
        Dr. Floyd Ratliff, a physiological psychologist and biophysicist who explored the depths of consciousness and perception, died on Sunday in  Santa Fe, N.M., where he moved after retiring from Rockefeller University in New York. He was 80.
        Dr. Ratliff combined expertise in his specialties with a keen interest in the history and philosophy of science. One focal point was the thought of Ernst Mach, the Austrian physicist, psychologist and philosopher of science (1838-1916), who was a leader of modern positivism.
        Dr. Ratliff, who taught at Rockefeller for 31 years and became a professor emeritus in 1989, also studied the relations binding the visual arts and visual sciences as witnessed in 19th-century science, Neo-Impressionism and the contrast and contour effects of art of the Sung Dynasty. With this in mind, he examined the neural mechanisms of vision, especially how the retina analyzes and reduces the apparent chaos of incoming data.
        His laboratory explored molecular events elicited by a single particle of light within a single nerve cell. The findings have been used to diagnose visual and other neurological disorders.
        His retinal studies led to investigations of the scientific basis for subjective visual phenomena -- like the ''optical illusions'' in contrasts of color and brightness -- that have served to inspire artists. It was Mach who first mathematically formulated the psychophysiological bases of such contrast effects.
        Dr. Ratliff wrote extensively in his field and published the textbook ''Mach Bands: Quantitative Studies of Neural Networks in the Retina'' (Holden-Day, 1965) as well as ''Paul Signac and Color in Neo-Impressionism'' (Rockefeller University, 1992).
        Signac, in association with Georges Seurat, developed the divisionist school, also known as Pointillism, in which the painter employed small dabs of color for the eye of the viewer to blend for intense color effects.
        Floyd Ratliff was born in La Junta, Colo., and served in World War II. He  graduated from Colorado College in 1947, and went to Brown University for an M.A., followed by a Ph.D. in psychology.
        He was elected a member of the  National Academy of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. For most of the 1980's he was president of the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation.
        Dr. Ratliff is survived by his wife of 57 years, Orma Vernon Priddy Ratliff; a daughter, Merry Alice Muraskin of Manhattan; a sister, Edith Johnson, and a grandson.
      