
        Charles Pierce, a female impersonator who found fame in his witty satirical sendups of stage and screen icons, died on Monday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said Don Lee Kobus, a friend.
        A pioneer in the form, Mr. Pierce set the stage for a future generation of impersonators but preferred to be known as an actor rather than a drag queen. No one who was anyone escaped inclusion in his vast repertory of leading ladies, whom he wickedly caricatured ''with slashing histrionic flashes of insight,'' said Clive Barnes in The New York Times, reviewing Mr. Pierce's first New York performance in 1975.
        A brilliant mimic, Mr. Pierce was legendary for his poignant rendition of Katharine Hepburn as Coco Chanel and for his onstage re-enactments of the battles between Bette Davis and Joan Crawford in ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane,'' in which he played both roles. His portrait gallery also included Gloria Swanson, Mae West, Tallulah Bankhead, Carol Channing and Barbra Streisand. He was, Mr. Barnes wrote, ''the living equivalent of an Al Hirschfeld cartoon.''
        Born in Watertown, N.Y., Mr. Pierce began working as a radio announcer at 16 before moving to Los Angeles two years later to study acting at the Pasadena Playhouse. After performing sporadically in Off Broadway and regional theater for several years, he accepted a job in 1954 at Club La Vie in Altadena, Calif., in hopes of a steady income. Dressed simply in a tuxedo and carrying a box of props, he took the stage and deftly created a succession of characters based on the intonation of a voice or the look in an eye.
        ''At that time I was the only entertainer working for a salary in a gay situation in Los Angeles,'' Mr. Pierce recalled in a 1997 interview. ''I opened myself up by appearing there because in those days I never would have been hired from there to do a television sitcom. Today it doesn't matter.''
        He performed continuously for the next 36 years in clubs and theaters across the United States and Europe, his audiences peppered with celebrities including Angela Lansbury, Lucille Ball, Sir John Gielgud, Anthony Hopkins, Vladimir Horowitz and Rudolph Nureyev, many of whom suffered his skewering gladly.
        He also appeared as a guest on television series including ''Designing Women,'' ''Fame,'' ''Laverne and Shirley'' and ''Love, American Style,'' as well as numerous talk shows.
        No immediate family members survive.
      