
        Harold E. Kohn, a lawyer who filed some of the earliest class action lawsuits accusing corporations of anti-competitive practices, died Monday at his home in Philadelphia, a law partner said. He was 85.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Kohn became nationally known when he won a key case against General Electric, Westinghouse and two dozen other companies that the Federal Government had charged with illegally fixing the prices of the electrical equipment they sold. Customers who had purchased the equipment filed hundreds of civil lawsuits against the companies. Mr. Kohn's case, brought on behalf of public utilities, was the first to go to trial and resulted in a $29 million verdict.
        During the litigation, the courts began consolidating the hundreds of cases and handling them as if they constituted several large class action lawsuits. After the lawsuits were settled, Mr. Kohn helped draft some of the rules that courts began to use in class action cases. Soon, he and other lawyers around the company were filing class action lawsuits against numerous companies, charging them with fixing the prices of products as diverse as plumbing fixtures, antibiotics, paper and sugar.
        Mr. Kohn brought a class action lawsuit against the timber industry, and the jury awarded his clients $2 billion in 1981, then the largest verdict in an antitrust case.
        But Mr. Kohn also brought public interest cases on the behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups. During the Vietnam War, he helped file a case that contended that the military draft was unconstitutional because it excluded women. The case went all the way to the Supreme Court, which ruled in 1981 that the exclusion of women did not violate the Fifth Amendment.
        Mr. Kohn also represented Ralph Ginzburg, the publisher, who was trying to appeal his 1963 conviction for mailing obscene literature. Ultimately, Mr. Ginzburg, who had been sentenced to five years in prison, was paroled after eight months.
        In 1937, Mr. Kohn graduated first in his class from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. In 1939, he began practicing law at the Philadelphia firm of Murdoch, Paxon, Kalish & Green, which later changed its name to Dilworth, Paxon, Kalish, Kohn & Dilks.
        In 1970, Mr. Kohn formed his own law firm, which is now known as Kohn, Swift & Graf.
        Mr. Kohn is survived by his wife, Edith; three daughters, Amy Kohn Goldberg, Ellen Kohn Goddard and Lee Ann Glanton; his son, Joseph, and eight grandchildren.
        While Mr. Kohn became wealthy from the fees he earned on class action cases, he often differed with some lawyers who had helped bring the antitrust cases on the issue of legal fees. At times, Mr. Kohn argued that the fees that his colleagues were requesting were too high.
      