
        J. F. Powers, who won a National Book Award in 1963 for his first novel, ''Morte d'Urban,'' and had a long career as a writer of sardonic but deeply compassionate fiction about Roman Catholic priests in the Midwest of the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Collegeville, Minn. He was 81.
        In his graceful novels and short stories, Mr. Powers depicted with great humor and awareness the subtleties as well as the isolated nature of the spiritual life. Although he was not a priest, he seemed to have an interior knowledge of what it meant to be one in the United States in this century, and he was expert in capturing the idiom of clerical speech.
        ''He was an absolutely masterly comedian and satirist with a very gentle and delicate touch,'' the novelist Mary Gordon said yesterday. ''He had one subject and that was priests.'' Extolling Mr. Powers's ''precision of form,'' she added, ''At the heart of his compassion was that his characters were in an impossible profession, as intermediaries between God and men,'' as men who were very much involved in the culture of the Midwest.
        Mr. Powers had a small body of work, and he never achieved a wide popularity. But he had fervent admirers in Britain as well as the United States. Writing about Mr. Powers's first collection of stories, ''Prince of Darkness,'' Evelyn Waugh said that he ''is almost unique in his country as a lay writer who is at ease in the Church; whose whole art, moreover, is everywhere infused and directed by his Faith.'' Frank O'Connor said he was ''among the greatest living storytellers'' and Sean O'Faolain called him ''a one-man show at the top level of short story writing.''
        Mr. Powers's first important story, ''Lions, Harts, Leaping Does,'' was published in Accent, a literary quarterly, in 1943 and then appeared four years later in ''Prince of Darkness and Other Stories.'' Five of the 11 stories in that collection dealt with the Roman Catholic Church, and with priests who were dying or were spiritually bankrupt. The other six were nonecclesiastical, and several concerned blacks in the United States; they were filled with sympathy for the overlooked and repressed,  which was one of the author's principal concerns in his fiction.
        ''Prince of Darkness'' was followed by a second collection, ''The Presence of Grace,'' in 1956, and then by ''Morte d'Urban,'' which began as a short story and then was expanded into a novel. At the center of the book is Father Urban, a priestly go-getter and charmer who turns a neglected religious center into a golf course. On his own terms, Father Urban retains a sense of dedication to his calling. To him, priests are ''those heroic family doctors of the soul.''
        After Mr. Powers won the book award, Pete Hamill characterized the author's territory: ''He has etched curates and monsignors dueling for the favors of a bishop; old pastors outfoxing young assistants; bored bishops made uncomfortable by the zeal of young priests. His theme is almost always the conflict between the true religious spirit and a not exactly religious commercial practice, and his heroes are men -- not saints or devils.''
        The award was a surprise to Mr. Powers; rival candidates included Vladimir Nabokov, John Updike and Katherine Anne Porter.
        His third collection of stories, ''Look How the Fish Live,'' was published in 1975, but it was not until 1988 that he had a second novel, ''Wheat That Springeth Green.'' In an interview that year, he tried to explain that gap: his wife was sick, he was innately lazy. But much of the delay seemed to derive from the fact that his first novel had found only a limited audience, despite winning that award. As a result, he said, he was ''somewhat despairing.''
        Reviewing Mr. Powers's second novel in The New York Times Book Review, Amy Edith Johnson said, ''Perhaps the publication of this splendid second novel will scandalize  the literary establishment into rushing Mr. Powers's earlier works back into print.'' She added, ''The beauty of Mr. Powers's writing lies in its art's being almost invisible.'' ''Wheat'' was nominated for a National Book Award.
        In the book, the author follows the life of Joe Hackett. When Joe enters the seminary, the author writes:
        ''He had grown up. Now he knew what he was doing, or, anyway, what he was trying to do -- simply the hardest job in the world: getting to know God, growing more like God, growing in holiness. Holiness . . . was the only ambition worthy of the priest and therefore of candidates for the priesthood. Holiness was the point of all the lives of the saints, the point where all those glorious lives converged, and what the whole world was crying for.''
        Near the end of the book, after he has been a priest for many years, Joe wonders about his soul: ''Still, you never knew where you were in the spiritual life; that was the hell of it -- only God knew.''
        James Farl Powers was born in Jacksonville, Ill., and grew up as a Roman Catholic in a largely Protestant town. One of his boyhood heroes was Sinclair Lewis, and it was no surprise that in common with Lewis, as a writer he was able to satirize life in smalltown America.
        When his family moved to Quincy, Ill., he studied with Franciscan friars at Quincy Academy. Several of his classmates entered the priesthood. ''I never wanted to be a priest,'' Mr. Powers said. ''Although part of it was the celibacy, it was more the matter of being on call to the public.''
        Instead he moved to Chicago,  where he held a variety of jobs while trying to be a writer. He attended Northwestern University but left before graduation and worked for a time in a bookstore, where he met Richard Wright and Nelson Algren. After taking part in religious retreats, he wrote ''Lions, Harts, Leaping Does,'' and that, in effect, began his literary career.
        As a pacifist, he refused to be inducted into the Army during World War II. For that refusal, he was confined for more than a year at the Sandstone Prison in Minnesota. After he was released in 1944 he worked as a hospital orderly and continued to write stories. In 1951 he and his family moved to Ireland and for the next several decades lived both there and in the United States.
        His stories were published in The New Yorker as well as in smaller, literary journals. For many years he also taught writing, and was a writer in residence and professor of English at St. John's University in Collegeville.
        Mr. Powers's wife, Elizabeth, died in 1988. He is survived by four children, Katherine Anne, who lives in Cambridge, Mass., and writes a book column for the Sunday Boston Globe; James, Hugh and Jane, all of Ireland, and four grandchildren.
        In 1988, after his wife's death, he expressed his own questioning about the existence of God, indicating that his belief was instinctive. As someone who wrote so often about matters of faith, he said: ''There are people who believe nothing I've said about there being a God and a next world. Maybe they're right.'' He added, ''I have to believe, or else I can't believe in anything.'' After a pause, he concluded: ''Maybe I'd believe in art. Art is there to be discovered out of God.''
      