
        Basil Cardinal Hume, who led the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales for 23 years, forging a renewed public role for the institution in a country where even the word ''Popish'' had long been a derogatory adjective, died yesterday in London. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, his official spokesman said just hours after calling for renewed prayers this weekend for the Cardinal because his sickness had reached its final stages.
        The Cardinal's office did not release any details of his illness, but it was reported in the British press as abdominal cancer.
        Cardinal Hume, a relatively unknown abbot running a Benedictine Monastery when Pope Paul VI appointed him to head the British church in 1976, had informed his priests that he was sick in an April letter. He wrote that he would continue working as long as he could and hoped to welcome in the new millennium, which he viewed as a time for revived prayer.
        ''I have received two wonderful graces,'' he wrote. ''First, I have been given time to prepare for a new future. Secondly, I find myself -- uncharacteristically -- calm and at peace.''
        He had been due to address a gathering of more than 200 American bishops meeting in Tucson, Ariz., this weekend, but sent a taped message because he was too ill to travel.
        ''He was steeped in the church tradition, but open to the needs of the present,'' said Msgr. Philip J. Murnion, director of the New York-based National Pastoral Life Center. ''He was one who knew that you didn't make up the teaching as you went along.''
        Cardinal Hume was considered something of a moral compass in Britain because he spoke with empathy about issues like abortion, birth control, the public acceptance of homosexuality, the relief of Third World debt and the release of those wrongly accused of carrying out attacks for the Irish Republican Army.
        At the same time he did not waver from the ironclad positions set down by the church hierarchy, although he kept Rome's overt influence over the British church to a minimum. So he managed to attract conservative followers fleeing the Church of England over issues like the ordination of women as priests.
        His more prominent converts to Catholicism included the Duchess of Kent, a cousin of the Queen and Graham Leonard, a retired Anglican bishop of London.
        ''No one else could have played the careful balance of welcome toward those who sought entry into his church, and a sensitivity to those members of the Anglican Church left behind,'' Mr. Leonard told the Associated Press.
        Queen Elizabeth II, temporal head of the Church of England, took the exceptional step of attending a vespers service at Westminster Cathedral, Hume's seat in 1995. Prime Minister Tony Blair, a Protestant, regularly attended Mass and took communion with his wife, Cherie, a Catholic.
        In June, Cardinal Hume left the hospital briefly for an audience with the Queen, who honored him with an Order of Merit, one of the awards she hands out by her own choice rather than by government recommendation.
        Critics accused the Cardinal of maintaining seemingly contradictory positions.
        On homosexuality, he wrote a paper in 1993 saying that gay men and women should ''not develop a sense of guilt or think of themselves as unpleasing to God. On the contrary, they are precious to God.''
        But at the same time, he wrote that because the church believed in the sanctity of marriage it could not condone homosexual unions, and that since sexual relations were meant to transmit new life the church did not approve of homosexual sex.
        He said that Catholics who ignored the ban on birth control were ''often good, conscientious and faithful sons and daughters of the church.''
        During the 1997 election, he said that faithful Catholics would find it impossible to vote for any candidate who actively supported abortion, after writing a letter to Pope John Paul II in 1996 calling the prevalence of abortion in England and Wales ''a shameful scandal.''
        Critics note that despite his attempts to present the church as a more welcoming institution and his own success as a voice for greater morality, church attendance dropped during his tenure.
        Ten years ago 1.38 million Catholics regularly attended Mass, but by last year the number had dropped to 1.1 million, and the number of young priests in training had plummeted.
        And prominent British Catholics did not always approve of his efforts to be so embracing, complaining that he spread his attention to too many issues. For example, Auberon Waugh, famous for carrying on the curmudgeonly outlook of his father, Evelyn, once condemned the Cardinal as ''a profoundly silly man.''
        The Catholic Church in England had been considered a suspect, foreign-influenced institution since 1533, when King Henry VIII broke with Rome by marrying Anne Boleyn against the Pope's wishes after divorcing Catherine of Aragon. In doing so he created the Anglican Church.
        The modern Catholic Church's influence was also tainted by the fact that many members of its hierarchy like Cardinal Hume's predecessor, John Cardinal Heenan, were of Irish origin and prone to rabble-rousing.
        But Cardinal Hume changed that.
        ''Past Catholic leaders like Cardinal Heenan were of Irish origin and were seen as firebrands,'' Peter Stanford, Cardinal Hume's biographer, told The Independent in 1997. ''They would take the public platforms and make a lot of noise, but Hume will go to see a minister privately at first, and politicians know that making a public fuss is his ultimate threat.
        ''His line is to talk a matter through quietly and reasonably, and he does get listened to. He talks to ministers on equal terms because he's English and upper middle class; he's an establishment figure who understands how the establishment works. He never gets on his soapbox, but if the time comes for it he will emerge humbly into the limelight.''
        He was born George Haliburton Hume on March 2, 1923, in Newcastle and inherited his Catholicism from his French mother, whom his Scottish Protestant father had met while with the army fighting in World War I. His father was a heart specialist who was later knighted.
        He attended, and then taught at, Ampleforth, which is a major abbey and is also considered the most prestigious boarding school for Catholic families in Britain. He studied history at Oxford University. He admitted that after he chose to become a Benedictine monk, adopting the name Basil, that he often had early doubts about pursuing the priesthood.
        ''But there was an old prior who was about to go into hospital and he asked me to make no decision until he came back,'' Cardinal Hume once said. ''Well he never came back, so I never left.''
        All the bishops in Britain and Wales were passed over when he was appointed head of the Church, the first such monk appointed to the position in 126 years. Although there was some grumbling in the British church hierarchy in the time about his inexperience, it was reported at the time that the leaders in Rome were looking for someone who could reinvigorate the faith in Britain where Catholics have long been a minority.
        Those who knew him said he never lost the air of the Benedictine monk, emphasizing prayer and work throughout his career.
        When he reached the usual retirement age of 75 last year, he proffered his resignation to Pope John Paul II, who refused it. The Cardinal had said he wanted to return to his monastery, Ampleforth in North Yorkshire, for fishing and school rugby games. (One reason he was considered a priest-of-the-people was his often-expressed support for the Newcastle soccer team that he started following as a child.)
        In the past months he had adopted as a special cause the need for prayers at midnight on Dec. 31 to accompany the celebration of the millennium, writing newspaper articles and making appearances on television to press the point that the celebration was for the birth of Jesus Christ.
        And when a government minister suggested that the Cardinal's concerns that the celebration would not be sufficiently religious were overblown, he went on the offensive in a series of interviews.
        ''I think that at midnight on 31st December next that it would be right to be at prayer,'' he said on BBC Radio. ''This can unite all religious who accept that there is someone or something beyond the here and now.''
      