
        Lawrence Stone, a social historian whose broad view of the past helped transform historical studies, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 79.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Jeanne.
        Professor Stone, who taught at Princeton University for 27 years, wrote on a wide range of topics, including the social and economic position of the English aristocracy, the nature of the English Revolution of 1640-1660, the history of education, medieval sculpture, and family life, including marital relations and the rise of divorce over the last five centuries.
        Throughout his work he examined profound changes in the social order over a long time span, in contrast to a more conventional approach restricted to the activities of the political elite. As such, his work on England converged with a similar postwar intellectual approach in France associated with Marc Bloch and Lucien Febvre. It applies social science techniques to history, using the tools of demography, economics, political science and anthropology.
        Professor Stone, who often found himself embroiled in polemics and relished that fact, liked to call himself an exponent of prosopography, or group biography. More could be learned, he insisted, from the study of the history of the family, or of the institution of divorce, than from even the most insightful biography of Henry VIII or Anne Boleyn.
        ''History, as Professor Stone presented it to rapt audiences of students and colleagues, cannot be confined to the tiny elite who dominate events,'' said the historian Robert Darnton, a Princeton colleague. ''It involves entire populations.''
        Professor Stone was not without critics. In 1985, Norman F. Cantor, a New York University historian, wrote in the neoconservative journal The New Criterion that Marxists, led by Professor Stone, were taking over the teaching of history. That charge, which stemmed from Professor Stone's early association with the English Christian Socialist historian R. H. Tawney, was vehemently denied in letters to the editor by members of the Princeton department of history and by conservative scholars like Gertrude Himmelfarb and Jack Hexter. Professor Stone would only describe the charge as ''ridiculous.''
        Among Professor Stone's scholarly books are ''The Crisis of the Aristocracy, 1558-1641'' (1965), ''The Causes of the English Revolution, 1529-1642'' (1972), ''The Family, Sex and Marriage in England, 1500-1800'' (1977), and ''Broken Lives: Marital Separation and Divorce in England, 1660-1857'' (1993).
        Born in Epsom, Surrey, in England, on Dec. 4, 1919, Lawrence Stone studied at the Charterhouse School, the Sorbonne and Christ Church, Oxford. His university studies were interrupted by war service as a lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.
        He received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from Oxford in 1946 and remained there until 1962, first as a lecturer at University and Corpus Christi colleges and then as a fellow of Wadham College.
        After two years at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, he joined the Princeton University faculty in 1963. He served as chairman of the history department from 1967 to 1970 and in 1968 became the founding director of the Davis Center for Historical Studies, which was established to promote innovative methods of historical research. He retired in 1990.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Stone is survived by two children, Elizabeth Cecilia Stone Zimansky of Stony Brook, Long Island, and Robert Lawrence Fawtier Stone of Manhattan.
      