
        Frank Spencer, an anthropologist who rummaged through the bones of controversy to theorize about the identity of the mastermind behind the Piltdown Man hoax of 1912, died on Sunday. He was 58 and lived in Bayside, Queens.
        The cause was cancer, said Queens College, where Dr. Spencer had been a professor and chairman of the anthropology department.
        It was in 1990 that Dr. Spencer, a specialist in the history of physical anthropology, weighed in with his hypothesis about who was responsible for planting a skull and bones in a gravel pit near the English village of Piltdown and setting a false trail, which for some 40 years diverted scientists seeking the timetable of man's origins.
        Though some had long doubted the evidence found at Piltdown, the fraud was not fully exposed until 1953, when the skull and a lower jaw, originally represented as coming from the same ancient individual, were found to be from two contemporary creatures of different species. The skull was that of a modern man and the jaw that of a modern orangutan with its teeth filed down.
        As the plot was bared, suspicion fell on Charles Dawson, who had found the bones and brought them to the attention of scientific authorities at the British Museum and who had died in 1916. But as a country lawyer and an amateur geologist, Mr. Dawson seemed to lack the knowledge and the access to the bones needed to fabricate evidence of a ''missing link'' between ape and man.
        There was no lack of possible accomplices and over the years many  figures, mostly scientists, were mentioned as suspects. These included Dr. Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, the famed paleontologist and a Jesuit priest who hunted for fossils with Mr. Dawson in Piltdown and who after the exposure of the hoax was said to have commented cryptically, ''I know who did the Piltdown hoax, and it was not Charles Dawson.''
        Another famous figure who came under scrutiny as a possible confederate of Mr. Dawson was Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the creator of Sherlock Holmes. The accusations linking him to the plot were all circumstantial: he lived not far from the site of the discoveries, knew Mr. Dawson and was fascinated by fossils.
        But Dr. Spencer's research took him in another direction, focusing his attention on a hitherto unsuspected anatomist named Sir Arthur Keith, who in 1912 had been a rising star of the British scientific establishment.
        Sir Arthur was then the conservator of the Hunterian Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. He died in 1955, two years after the Piltdown Man was shown to have been concocted.
        Though Dr. Spencer was born in Chatham, not far from Piltdown, the debunking of the Piltdown claim, when he was 11 years old, made no memorable impression on him. However, when in 1976 he was writing his doctoral dissertation at the University of Michigan about a physical anthropologist named Ales Hrdlicka, the doctoral student noted that his subject had once written to Dr. Keith questioning the find, only to be snubbed. He wondered why.
        Through years of investigation, which he documented in ''Piltdown, a Scientific Forgery,'' published by Oxford University Press in 1990, Dr. Spencer established that before Mr. Dawson publicized his finds, Dr. Keith was aggressively propounding his view that the first human beings evolved earlier than had been supposed and that the first manifestation of their development was the enlarged brain.
        The evidence of a Piltdown Man fulfilled Dr. Keith's hypothesis of a missing link with a modern-sized brain and a simian jaw, which he claimed was a more legitimate and direct ancestor of man than the European Neanderthals and the Java Man found just before the turn of the century.
        By Dr. Spencer's reckoning, Dr. Keith was the scientist with the most to gain from the Piltdown discovery. As Dr. Spencer wrote, the hoax had been ''a deliberate use of fraud to alter the entire course of paleontology.''
        Meanwhile, in Australia, Dr. Ian Langham, a historian, had independently reached similar conclusions about Dr. Keith, and when Dr. Langham died in 1984, his research became available to Dr. Spencer. Elaborating on Dr. Langham's findings, Dr. Spencer was able to establish that Mr. Dawson and Dr. Keith held secret meetings dating back to a year before the supposed discovery.
        As Dr. Spencer reconstructed the plot, Dr. Keith provided technical expertise and possibly the bones, which were stained to look prehistoric. Mr. Dawson then planted them in the gravel pit where he then led others, including Dr. Teilhard, on fossil hunts.
        ''I'm pretty convinced that this is the definitive solution,'' Dr. Spencer said in an interview when his book appeared. ''We don't have the smoking gun. But I think the interpretation we've made is a reasonable one and in harmony with the facts.''
        Dr. Spencer, the editor of The History of Physical Anthropology and the author of several monographs and many articles, had originally been trained as a medical microbiologist and worked in British and Canadian hospitals before switching fields.
        He is survived by his wife, Elena, and his mother, Doris, of Rochester, England.
      