
        Clifton Fadiman, the essayist, critic, editor and indefatigable anthologist whose encyclopedic knowledge made him a mainstay of ''Information Please'' and other popular radio programs in the late 1930's, 40's and 50's, died yesterday on Sanibel Island, Fla. He was 95 and lived on the nearby island of Captiva.
        Mr. Fadiman, who also helped establish the Book-of-the-Month Club and served on its editorial board for more than 50 years, was a bookworm's bookworm. He learned to read when he was 4 and he never got over it.
        ''When I opened and read the first page of a book for the first time, I felt this was remarkable: that I could learn something very quickly that I could not have learned any other way,'' he said. Mr. Fadiman added that he ''grew bug-eyed over the miracle of language'' and that his enthusiasm for ''decoding the black squiggles on white paper'' never ceased. ''One's first book, kiss or home run is always the best,'' he said.
        His interest in literature was accompanied by a formidable memory. And so it seemed he was literally born to be an anthologist; over six decades, he assembled more than two dozen anthologies dealing with everything from the beliefs of leading intellectuals to poetry to mathematics to prose to limericks and the atrocious pun. If his knowledge seemed encyclopedic, it was understandable; he served on the Encyclopedia Britannica's editorial board for many years.
        He also created Treasury of the Encyclopedia Britannica, for which he read or skimmed approximately 200 years of the encyclopedia's editions and then condensed this into a 700-page volume. He admitted he had not read every word the Britannica had ever printed, but with his knowledge of history and literature and his ability to read 80 pages an hour, he got through more of the encyclopedia than most people would.
        Of primary importance to Mr. Fadiman was ''The World Treasury of Children's Literature,'' which he assembled in the mid-1980's. There were volumes for children ages 4 to 8 and 9 to 14. He created these anthologies not only because he was interested in children's literature but also because he felt that it was necessary to involve children early in reading if literacy was to survive television. Mr. Fadiman said he feared that society was passing ''into an entirely new techno-culture in which reading will be a very secondary or tertiary occupation.''
        Kip Fadiman (friends called him by his childhood nickname) was especially proud of his Encyclopedia Britannica entry on the history of children's literature; to study the subject he learned to read child-level Italian, Spanish, Swedish and Dutch when he was in his 70's. In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Fadiman's presence in and influence on American intellectual life were ubiquitous. He prided himself on his skill as a popularizer and on his ability to make lofty subjects accessible to people who lacked his education and acuity.
        This made him the target of such critics as Dwight MacDonald, who in the 1950's accused him of being a high priest of ''Midcult,'' contaminating American culture with what Mr. MacDonald saw as the ''tepid ooze'' of phony intellect. Other critics said that Mr. Fadiman's creativity was not the equal of his memory. But Mr. Fadiman was never defensive about what he was or what he did.
        ''I am not a profound thinker,'' he once said. He said he saw himself rather as a guide, someone who could help other readers pick the titles that suited them. During the middle part of the century he had a good sense of what Americans wanted to read and was an important national taste maker.
        But as the years passed, his influence waned; Americans seemed less interested in the great works of classical literature that he loved and more attracted to certain of the newer novels in which, he said, ''the sex scene is mandatory about every 40 pages.'' He thought such writers went too far, thereby leaving ''nothing for the poor guy or woman to work on actively in their bedroom.''
        ''It's better to discover things for yourself, I've found out,'' he added.
        Clifton Paul Fadiman was born on May 15, 1904, in Brooklyn, the son of Isidore Michael and Grace Elizabeth Fadiman, Russian-Jewish immigrants. His father was a pharmacist, his mother a nurse.
        His elder brother, Edwin, encouraged him to read, and by the time he was 10, Clifton was reading Homer, Sophocles, Dante and Milton. He quickly showed a great interest in the intellectual history of Western civilization and would walk to and from the library, two miles round trip, with his eyes fixed on the printed page. He took pride in being able to sense curbs with his peripheral vision so that he did not have to stop reading just to cross the street.
        Mr. Fadiman graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Columbia University in 1925. While at Columbia, he urged his classmate Whittaker Chambers to read ''The Communist Manifesto.'' His first job out of college was as a teacher at the Ethical Culture High School (now Fieldston), where he remained until 1927. He also lectured, from 1923 to 1933, at the People's Institute of New York.
        In the late 1920's he was a top editor at Simon & Schuster, remaining there until 1933, when he left to become book editor of The New Yorker. In his 10 years at The New Yorker he favored ''clarity above all in what I read.'' Thus he gave high praise in his reviews to writers like Sinclair Lewis and was not an admirer of writers like Gertrude Stein and William Faulkner. Earlier, he had been a book reviewer for The Nation.
        In the spring of 1938, Dan Golenpaul started a radio program called ''Information Please'' and asked Mr. Fadiman to be its moderator. Regular panelists included John Kieran, Franklin Adams and Oscar Levant. Their lively discussions gained a reputation for wit and erudition and soon won an audience of nine million.
        These listeners submitted questions and if any of them were able  ''to stump the experts,'' Mr. Fadiman rewarded them with sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica.
        When the program was taken off the air in 1948, Mr. Fadiman was sought after as a lecturer. During this same period, he also appeared on other radio shows, most notably ''Quiz Kids,'' which put questions to bright young people. Other programs in which he participated included ''Mathematics,'' ''Alumni Fun''and ''Conversation.'' In 1952 he was the  host of a popular television show called ''This Is Show Business,'' which featured a panel that included George S. Kaufman and Abe Burrows.
        Throughout his life, he urged young people to be serious and to read classic literature. ''Books,'' he said, ''are not rolls, to be devoured only when they are fresh.''
        For decades readers encountered Mr. Fadiman in his introductory essays in the Modern Library to such classics as ''War and Peace'' and ''The Short Stories of Henry James,'' in his contributions to special editions of such books as ''Moby-Dick'' and ''The Pickwick Papers,'' in anthologies like ''Reading I've Liked'' and ''I Believe,'' in newspaper and magazine articles and in a monthly column in Holiday magazine called ''Party of One.''
        And for years thousands of readers were guided by his literary suggestions, especially through the Book-of-the-Month Club and ventures like The Reader's Club, an organization that distributed books reprinted on the advice of Mr. Fadiman, Carl Van Doren, Sinclair Lewis and Alexander Woollcott.
        He was also the author, with the renowned wine merchant Sam Aaron, of ''The Joys of Wine,'' an exhaustive book on a subject that, like  cheese and cigars, was a favorite indulgence. In his essay ''Brief History of a Love Affair,'' he told of his lifelong passion for wine. ''I think of ourselves as a model couple,'' he wrote, ''faithful, mutually solicitous, still ardent, and in the case of the lady, well preserved.''
        He lost most of his sight as a result of acute retinal necrosis in his late 80's. But according to his daughter, Anne, also a writer, he continued to vet manuscripts for the Book-of-the-Month Club, as he had since 1944, by listening to unabridged tapes of the volumes in question especially recorded for him by his son Kim. He dictated his assessments to a secretary. He continued to participate, by way of conference calls, in the club's editorial board meetings until March.
        While blind he brought out a new edition of ''The Lifetime Reading Plan,'' a guide done with John S. Major that was intended to introduce Americans to the classics of civilization, and he was the general editor of ''World Poetry: An Anthology of Verse From Antiquity to Our Time.''
        Late in his life the book world honored him for his love of the printed word by awarding him the 1993 National Book Foundation Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters.
        Mr. Fadiman's marriage to Pauline Elizabeth Rush, an editor, ended in divorce. In 1950 he married Annalee Whitmore Jacoby, a screenwriter and the co-author with Theodore H. White of ''Thunder Out of China.'' In addition to his wife, his daughter, Anne, of New York, and his son Kim, of Sanibel, Fla., he is survived by another son, Jonathan of Concord, Mass., a brother, William Fadiman of Los Angeles, six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
        Clifton Fadiman had a fondness for people's last words and wrote an essay about them called ''Some Passing Remarks on Some Passing Remarks.'' He once told his daughter that his favorite parting line was that of the 18th-century English writer Mary Wortley Montagu: ''It has all been very interesting.''
        Correction:  June 26, 1999, Saturday  An obituary of the writer and editor Clifton Fadiman on Monday misspelled the surname of a critic of Mr. Fadiman's role as a popularizer of intellectual subjects. He was Dwight Macdonald, not MacDonald.
      