
        Kamal Eddin Hussein, a crusty Egyptian army officer who helped to overthrow King Farouk of Egypt in 1952, became a Vice President of Egypt and then clashed with two Presidents, died on Saturday. He was 77.
        He had liver cancer, his family said, according to The Associated Press.
        Mr. Hussein was a leading member of the group Free Officers, headed by Gamal Abdel Nasser, who led Egypt's revolution in 1952. In addition to overthrowing Farouk, who went into exile, the revolution put an end to Egypt's monarchy.
        Afterward Nasser became President, with Mr. Hussein as a member of his original Revolutionary Council. Mr. Hussein went on to hold important Cabinet posts under Nasser besides serving as a Vice President.
        But he came to oppose many aspects of Nasser's leadership, including his authoritarian mode of governing and what has been called his favoritism, which Mr. Hussein said led Egypt to lose in the 1967 Middle East war. After falling out with Nasser in the 1960's, he was put under house arrest.
        He was released early in the presidency of Anwar el-Sadat, who succeeded Nasser in 1970. After food riots in Egypt, in 1977, when Mr. Hussein was an independent member of the Egyptian People's Assembly, he publicly accused Mr. Sadat of ''punishing the Egyptian people'' instead of ''punishing your Government for dereliction.''
        Mr. Hussein made his accusation in a telegram to Egyptian newspapers, also deploring as unconstitutional certain punitive law-and-order measures that Mr. Sadat had announced in a television address. Mr. Hussein called the measures and ''an insult to the intelligence of the Egyptian people.''
        The National Assembly then expelled him, by a vote of 281 to 28, for having voiced ''insulting'' views of Mr. Sadat. Mr. Hussein was the first National Assembly member to be ousted since 1971, when a number of members had been expelled for plotting to overthrow Mr. Sadat.
        Mr. Hussein is survived by three sons and several grandchildren.
      