
        Pietro Deiro Jr., a music publisher devoted to the expansion of the repertory for the accordion, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Deiro, who was known as Lee, played the accordion and, though he did not give concerts, had an important influence on the accordion world. His publishing house, Pietro Deiro Publications, had a catalogue of nearly 10,000 works, ranging from educational materials and music in different national styles to serious concert works by American composers, among them Henry Cowell, Paul Creston, Alan Hovhaness and Virgil Thomson.
        By establishing a literature of serious works composed specifically for the instrument, Mr. Deiro helped give the accordion a reputation for versatility when it had been used mainly for folk music.
        Mr. Deiro came by his passion for the accordion naturally. His father, for whom he was named, is considered by many historians of the accordion to be the father of the instrument as it is known today. He was one of the first to perform on the piano accordion, on which a piano keyboard replaced the buttons on the right side of the traditional accordion. The elder Pietro Deiro also made recordings, started the publishing company that bears his name, and founded the Pietro Deiro Accordion School in Greenwich Village, with which his son was also associated. He died in 1954, and was the subject of an opera, ''Opera Fisarmonica,'' by William Schimmel, in 1992.
        The younger Mr. Deiro was born in New York on Sept. 30, 1913, and went into the family publishing business when he was a teen-ager. He also followed in his father's footsteps as a member of the governing board of the American Accordionists' Association. His father had been the first president; Mr. Deiro Jr. served as president and vice president at various times and worked on projects for the association that included arranging competitions and standardizing  the notation used in accordion music and the terminology used to describe the instrument's registration, sizes and timbres.
        He also helped select composers for the association's commissions and published some of the commissioned works, including Mr. Cowell's Concerto Brevis and ''Iridescent Rondo,'' Nicholas Flagello's Introduction and Scherzo, Otto Luening's Rondo, Wallingford Riegger's ''Cooper Square,'' Alexander Tcherepnin's ''Tzigana,'' William Grant Still's ''Lilt'' and Thomson's ''Lamentations.''
        He is survived by a daughter, Sandra Cattani of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      