
        The jazz bassist Fred Hopkins, an important figure of the new jazz in New York during the 1970's and 80's, died on Jan. 7 at the University of Chicago Hospital. He was 51 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was heart disease, said his mother, Lula Hopkins.
        Always playing behind a band leader, Mr. Hopkins had a thick, dark sound influenced by Jimmy Garrison and Paul Chambers. He improvised powerfully whether the music had chord changes or not, and the music he was involved with, inspired by the energy of free jazz, was compositionally ambitious, too.
        He brought a dramatic urgency to bands that included the trio Air and ensembles led by David Murray, Henry Threadgill, Muhal Richard Abrams, Arthur Blythe and Oliver Lake. Mr. Hopkins also had a decadelong musical partnership with the cellist Deidre Murray. He made his name as a musician in New York, living there from 1975 to 1996; recently, he moved back to his hometown, Chicago.
        Mr. Hopkins was one of many jazz musicians who studied under Walter Dyett, an imperious, inspiring music teacher at DuSable High School in Chicago. After his early training, Mr. Hopkins played in the Chicago Civic Orchestra and studied with Joseph Guastafeste, the principal bassist for the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. In his mid-20's he started to play with Mr. Abrams and some members of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians, an influential collective of experimental jazz-based players, though he did not formally join the organization until he moved to New York.
        But in the underground jazz scene that converged around musicians' loft spaces, Mr. Hopkins was most often associated with Air, including Mr. Threadgill and the drummer Steve McCall. Formed in 1971 in Chicago as a one-shot affair to provide music for a play about Scott Joplin, Air was an unusual ensemble band, with liquid roles for the musicians, an impressive rhythm section and a humorous, playful take on the problem of jazz composition.
        Air got together again in New York in 1975 and made nearly a dozen albums through the 1980's. Meanwhile Mr. Hopkins appeared on such other significant albums of the period as Mr. Murray's ''Ballads,'' the Henry Threadgill Sextett's ''Just the Facts and Pass the Bucket,'' Mr.  ''Hearinga Suite'' and Craig Harris's ''Black Bone.''
        In addition to his mother, he is survived by his brothers Allan, Joel, Dennis and Brian, all of Chicago, and his sisters Jacqueline Graham and Cynthia Hopkins, both of Oak Park, Ill.
      