
        Dr. Louis K. Diamond, who developed a revolutionary transfusion method to save newborn babies with Rh disease, died on June 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 97.
        Dr. Diamond was a longtime professor at Harvard Medical School and associate chief of staff at Children's Hospital Medical Center in Boston. In the late 1940's, he also directed the American Red Cross National Blood Program and established the Blood Grouping Laboratory in Boston.
        His pioneering work in the field has led his colleagues and many students to call him the father of pediatric hematology, the branch dealing with blood and blood diseases.
        Dr. Diamond is known worldwide for his work in the 1930's and 1940's with Rh disease and the treatment called exchange transfusion. In 1932, he and Dr. Kenneth Blackfan discovered that four diseases of infants were manifestations of a sole syndrome, erythroblastosis fetalis, also called Rh disease, a condition that at that time affected about 1 in 200 babies, killing or irreversibly harming half of them.
        Later, in the early 1940's, other researchers discovered that Rh disease occurred when a pregnant mother with Rh-negative blood carryied an Rh-positive fetus, the result of having an Rh-positive father. The mother, exposed to the Rh-positive blood during delivery or during pregnancy, produces antibodies against her infant's blood. Then, in later pregnancies, the mother's antibodies, traveling through the placenta, damage the red blood cells of Rh-positive fetuses, causing severe anemia, heart failure and brain damage.
        Saving these newborns almost always required replacing virtually their entire blood supply, usually shortly after birth, to get rid of the mother's antibodies and the damaged red blood cells. The exchange had to be done in small amounts at a time, over many day, because a newborn's blood vessels are tiny, making transfusion difficult, and likely to produce clots with the steel needles and rubber catheters available at the time.
        So, in 1946, Dr. Diamond and Dr. Fred Allen started doing the transfusions through the newborn's large umbilical vein, which remains open for days after birth, using an experimental piece of newly developed plastic tubing.
        Mortality from Rh disease then dropped to a tenth of what it had been. With later improvements and a vaccine, the death rate is now negligible. The exchange transfusion procedure was also later applied to newborns with other blood diseases and is credited with saving the lives of hundreds of thousands of babies.
        Dr. Diamond was born in the Ukraine on May 11, 1902. Brought to the United States by his parents at the age of 2, he grew up in Manhattan before moving to Boston to attend Harvard College, from which he graduated in 1923, and Harvard Medical School, where he received his medical degree in 1927.
        He remained at Harvard for most of the next 41 years as a professor of pediatrics and associate chief of staff at Children's Hospital Medical Center. He took a leave from 1948 to 1950 to serve as medical director of the American Red Cross's new National Blood Program.
        Upon retiring from Harvard in 1968, Dr. Diamond moved to the University of California at San Francisco as adjunct professor of pediatrics. The Louis J. Diamond chair of hematology there is named in his honor.
        He retired again in 1987 but moved to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he remained professionally active into his 90's.
        He served as president of the American Pediatric Society.
        His wife, Flora, died last year. He is survived by a son, Dr. Jared Diamond of Los Angeles, a daughter, Susan Diamond of Los Angeles, a sister, Sally Taft of Hershey, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      