
        Robert G. Neumann, whose dismissal as the American Ambassador to Saudi Arabia in 1981 revealed fissures in President Reagan's first foreign policy team, died of cancer in Los Angeles last Friday. He was 83.
        Mr. Neumann's firing by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr.  -- and the conflicting explanations offered at the time -- proved an early embarrassment for the Reagan Administration and revealed the personality conflicts and discord over foreign policy that led Mr. Haig to resign a year later.
        On July 29, 1981, Mr. Haig announced that Mr. Neumann, a former professor with long and close ties to Republican Party leaders, had resigned ''for personal reasons,'' after just two months as Ambassador to Saudi Arabia. Because Mr. Neumann had headed President Reagan's transition team at the State Department, reporters eagerly sought more details.
        David Gergen, the White House spokesman, said: ''I can say he was not fired, and there have not been differences of policy.''
        A week later an anguished Mr. Gergen acknowledged that he had put out ''misleading information'' that ''had stuck in his craw.'' Statements that Mr. Neummann had resigned because of health problems of his wife, Marlen, were not true, Mr. Gergen said.
        Though no definitive explanation for the dismissal emerged and though Mr. Neumann kept his silence aside from saying that he missed his job, several likely motives were cited to account for the dramatic firing.
        One centered on Mr. Neumann's activities as head of a lobbying effort in Congress in support of sales to Saudi Arabia of Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft, the Awacs. The delivery of such planes, which would have permitted the Saudis to monitor Israeli military flights closely, alarmed the Israelis. Associates of Mr. Neumann were quoted in news articles as saying that he believed United States policies toward Israel were overly supportive and that it was not a secret that Israel's supporters in Congress and within the Administration opposed his advocacy of the Awacs sales and his perspective on the Middle East.
        Another possible explanation for the firing was said to be Mr. Haig's outrage at learning that Mr. Neumann had made strenuous criticism of policy statements by Mr. Haig to Senator Charles H. Percy, Republican of Illinois, with others present.
        A third version focused on Mr. Haig's displeasure at back channel correspondence between Mr. Neumann and Richard V. Allen, President Reagan's first national security adviser, with whom Mr. Haig had many differences.
        Though Mr. Haig, a retired general, criticized and deplored the overlapping and conflicting lines of command relating to foreign policy in the Reagan White House, in his memoir, ''Caveat,'' (Macmillan, 1984), he did not specifically mention his firing of Mr. Neumann.
        However newspaper reports citing unnamed associates of Mr. Neumann asserted that in late July of 1981, the Secretary of State summoned Mr. Neumann and severely rebuked him, yelling at him. Mr. Neumann reportedly apologized for his cable contacts with Mr. Allen and thought the incident was over. A few days later, after obtaining White House approval, Mr. Haig called him in and told him he could resign or be fired.
        After leaving the State Department he was appointed vice chairman of the American-Saudi Business Roundtable, which is made up of executives of corporations that do business with Saudi Arabia, and also joined Georgetown University's Center for Strategic and International Studies, eventually becoming vice chairman. Before entering the foreign service he taught political science at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        Robert Gerhard Neumann was born in Vienna and came to the United States in the late 1930's, after studying in France, Austria and Switzerland. In his entry in Who's Who he referred to having been a prisoner in camps for anti-Nazi activities and then a penniless immigrant to America.
        He received a master's degree from Amherst in 1940, served in the United States Army in Europe and received a doctorate from the University of Minnesota in 1946.
        He wrote three books on foreign policy, one on Germany, one comparing governments in Europe and his last work, ''Toward a More Effective Executive-Legislative Relationship in the Conduct of America's Foreign Policy.''
        His wife died in 1997.
        He is survived by two sons, Ronald E., who is Deputy Assistant Secretary of State and a former Ambassador to Algeria, and Gregory, of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      