
        Alexander S. Farkas, who helped build Alexander's department stores into the place where New Yorkers went to get stylish fashions for a bargain and then watched as the chain went bankrupt, died yesterday at his home in Highland Park, Fla. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother Robin.
        The chain was founded in 1928 by Mr. Farkas's father, George, who named both his business and his son after his own father. George Farkas's strategy was to offer fashions and housewares -- then the exclusive province of full-service department stores -- at cut-rate prices by getting rid of frills like fancy decor and free alterations.
        ''Dad went right in between'' the high-end stores and cut-rate clothiers, ''not with decor and ambiance but with style, fashion and price,'' Robin Farkas said at the time of his father's death in 1980. ''It had not been done that way before.''
        In its 1930's heyday, the Alexander's flagship at Fordham Road and the Grand Concourse in the Bronx served the immigrant population and had more sales per square foot than any other United States retailer.
        Alexander Farkas, who was known as Sandy, was born in New York City. He was educated at Choate School and the Bronx High School of Science and the University of Chicago and studied business at Cornell University. After school he got a job loading freight and then worked in advertising, but his strong-willed father soon drew him into the family business.
        In a 1985 interview, Bruce Farkas, another brother, said, ''We were all coerced into the business. George not only planned for it, but expected our compliance.'' He recalled that Alexander Farkas had wanted to be a college history professor.
        Mr. Farkas started as head of stock in the women's coat department in 1951. His main responsibility, he later joked, was to carry merchandise from rack to rack. His father insisted on a rigorous training program that included stints in all departments except the cafeteria; Mr. Farkas rose quickly and was named president and general merchandising manager eight years later. His father remained chairman.
        Alexander Farkas began remodeling the image of the store to be more fashionable. While he continued his father's policies of ''no credit, no charge accounts, no deliveries and no alterations,'' he opened new stores -- including a new flagship at 58th Street and Lexington Avenue in Manhattan -- and decorated them with touches like crystal chandeliers. During his first year, he doubled the chain's advertising budget and made exclusive arrangements with European houses to get their excess inventories.
        There were plenty of bumps. After one warm winter season resulted in disappointing sales, his father questioned the new approach. Mr. Farkas quit and joined a men's clothing manufacturer. A week later, his father wooed him back by giving him a contract that promised control over the merchandise.
        ''I'm probably the only son working in a family business who has a written contract,'' he once noted, ''but it has made for harmony.''
        Over the next decades, Mr. Farkas helped build Alexander's into a 16-store business with more than $500 million in annual revenue. In 1968, the family took the company public. Soon afterward the semiretired George Farkas and his wife, Ruth, sold their shares, and Mr. Farkas's brother Jonathan did the same later. But Mr. Farkas and Bruce and Robin, his two other brothers, held onto shares worth significant stakes in the company, opening the way for a family split years later.
        By the 1970's, retailing was getting more competitive in New York. Alexander's was one of the few alternatives to pricer department stores like Bloomingdale's and Macy's, but rivals like Kmart and outlet centers began chipping into its client base.
        Meanwhile, the real estate Alexander's stores occupied was appreciating at dizzying speed. The company's stock soon drew investors like Interstate Properties, a real-estate developer in New Jersey, and Robert Bass, the financier from Texas, who were mostly interested in developing the sites beyond retail, which was not Mr. Farkas's main interest.
        After a bad acquisition led to losses in 1980, Bruce and Robin Farkus joined with Interstate to petition the Securities and Exchange Commission to gain more influence over the company. Mr. Farkas acceded to the dissidents' demands, allowing the group to name five new board members; Robin and Bruce Farkus moved up in the company.
        In 1984, Alexander resigned as chief executive. He said it was just time ''to take life a little easier,'' but pressure from Interstate, which owned 13 percent of the company by then, clearly had some effect. He was succeeded by Robin and then by outside management.
        The company went into swift decline, not making a profit after 1987 except when it sold stores. In 1992, Alexander's Inc. declared bankruptcy and closed its last 11 stores. Mayor David N. Dinkins called it ''a sad day for New York City.''
        As it turned out, Alexander's was worth more dead than alive. Its stock, which had traded at $8.50 in the days before bankruptcy was declared, shot up as high as $57 the next year as investors recognized the value of its real estate. While many of its properties were eventually sold off, Alexander's still exists as a real estate company.
        Mr. Farkas was married five times. Besides his three brothers, he is survived by his fifth wife, Linda Saltzman Farkas, and by three children from his third marriage to Francine Moss Glansrach: a son, Alexander Farkas of California, and two daughters, Georgette Farkas and Cindy Glansrach, both of New York City.
      