
        Harry (Sweets) Edison, a member of the Count Basie band from 1938 to 1950 and a trumpeter of original, minimalist conviction who played behind singers like Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Frank Sinatra, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 83.
        Jazz is full of lunging, piercing talents, and Mr. Edison's niche was to act as a coolheaded counterweight to that tendency. In the Basie band, he had a supple, warm sound, regulated by a fanned mute, and he often stayed on repeated notes that he would bend and ripple; his obbligato playing, while accompanying a soloist, was sometimes indistinguishable from his own spotlighted improvisations. As he grew older, the notes became shorter, his tone became softer, and the listener had to follow him into a kind of secret, hidden world. Often he would end a piece with one repeated note or riff that gradually faded into silence.
        It wasn't the sound of resignation; his music wasn't sad, but funny and sweet. The saxophonist Lester Young must have been thinking of this when, sitting in the lobby of New York's Woodside Hotel in the 1930's, he nicknamed Mr. Edison ''Sweetie-Pie.'' That was soon shortened to Sweets, which would identify him for the rest of his life.
        Mr. Edison was born in Columbus. His father, a Zuni Indian named Wayne Edison, left the family when he was 6 months old. Young Harry  then lived with relatives in Kentucky, where an uncle gave him his first trumpet and taught him scales at the age of 10.
        Toward the end of high school he joined Earl Hood's band in Columbus, and in 1933 he joined the Jeter-Pillars Orchestra in Cleveland, which moved to St. Louis one year later. In 1937 he landed in New York, playing for Lucky Millinder. At a battle of the bands in Baltimore, according to Count Basie's memoir, ''Good Morning Blues,'' the Millinder group played in a tight competition against Basie's band. Not long after, Mr. Edison defected to the New York-based Count Basie camp.
        His timing was perfect: during this period the Basie band recorded dozens of famous pieces -- including ''Every Tub,'' ''Swingin' the Blues'' and ''Sent for You Yesterday'' -- models of directness, economy and hard swing.
        As some classic recordings with Billie Holiday in the late 1930's would begin to prove (including ''The Man I Love''), Mr. Edison was particularly good behind singers, negotiating around their breathing space and spurring on their sense of rhythm.
        Nelson Riddle said that Mr. Edison was often directly responsible for leavening the mood on a record.  ''The humor is in Harry's head,'' he once said. ''You show him what you want, you delineate the area that he's going to play in, and he's the one who actually makes the humor of the comment. You just show him where.'' Some of Mr. Edison's work is found on Sinatra's mid-1950's albums, including ''Swing Easy'' and ''Songs for Swingin' Lovers,'' and the Holiday album ''Songs for Distingue Lovers.'' Mr. Edison also worked with Sarah Vaughan and Nat (King) Cole.
        When Basie's band broke up in 1950, Mr. Edison moved to Los Angeles where he found studio work. He  traveled with Norman Granz's Jazz at the Philharmonic tours and was  the musical director for Josephine Baker in the early 1950's. He played with big bands led by Buddy Rich, Quincy Jones, Louis Bellson and Henry Mancini, and until the end of his life he made many solo albums.
        In 1993 Mr. Edison was named an American Jazz Master, and he frequently toured. To the end, even when his energy failed him, he knew how to use what he had, which was a sort of rhythmic tension based in the language of the riff and the repeated single note; he could kick a band into swinging while playing as lightly as one can. And he was always funny, with a routine of double-entendres on song titles and hyperbolically lavish self-introductions at the end of a set.  In December he moved back to Columbus from Los Angeles because of failing health; he had been living with cancer for 14 years. His last recording is ''Live at the Iridium,'' on Telarc Records.
        He is survived by a daughter, Helena, of Columbus.
      