
        Phaidon Gizikis, a Greek general who as President of Greece played a key role in paving the way for the return of democracy after seven years of dictatorial rule, died on Monday at the Nimits military hospital in Athens. He was 82 and a longtime resident of Athens.
        The cause was not immediately disclosed, but Greek news media said his hospital stay was brief.
        Lieutenant General Gizikis was appointed President in late 1973, after an army coup, in which he had been a conspirator, overthrew President George Papadopoulos, a former army colonel. President Gizikis promoted himself to full general. The plan was for him to be only a figurehead. The real ruler of Greece was Brig. Dimitrios Ionnidis. But key military leaders turned against the brigadier and General Gizikis came to play his important part in the dictatorship's end.
        Mr. Papadopoulos had presided over a military dictatorship that had ruled Greece since 1967. In that year he had led an earlier military coup that ousted an unsteady parliamentary Government.
        In the summer of 1974, Greek officials said pressure built up within the military to go back to its barracks when it became obvious that the Government of Prime Minister Adamandios Androutsopoulos, a political nonentity who was appointed after the 1973 coup, could not respond effectively to growing economic problems and to a crisis that had arisen over Cyprus.
        Cabinet ministers in the civilian Government that supplanted the military in July 1974 said the prospect of war with Turkey over Cyprus had persuaded members of the junta that it was futile to carry on any longer. It was said that General Gizikis had realized that without a strong Government, Greece would not be able to negotiate effectively about Cyprus.
        He spoke by telephone with former Prime Minister Constantine Caramanlis, a civilian conservative who was in self-imposed exile in Paris, and asked him to return to Greece. Mr. Caramanlis hesitated. The President pledged to him that the civilians would acquire full control. Other junta members joined the President in the promise.
        Mr. Caramanlis returned, was sworn in as Prime Minister on July 24, 1974, and formed a new, center-right Government. Several of its members had been deported or jailed by the military rulers.
        By early August 1974, the relaxation of political life in Greece was already apparent. Political prisoners had been released, other exiles had returned. The far left, including adherents of Communist Party factions, was making its voice heard. The music of Mikis Theodorakis, the left-wing composer whom the military had expelled, was heard again in nightclubs and on the radio.
        After a new democratic coalition was put in place, General Gizikis stepped down as President in December 1974 and was succeeded by Michael Stassinopoulos. Later he retired from the army. In 1976 a military judicial council dropped proceedings against him and 88 other former officers charged with treason and mutiny for collaborating with the former junta.
        General Gizikis was born in western Greece, north of Athens, but reports differ as to his birthplace. He graduated from the Greek military academy in Athens in 1939.
        Surviving are his wife, two daughters and a son.
      