
        Simon Mahlathini Nkabinde, a singer better known as the lead groaner of the Zulu music group Mahlathini and the Mahotella Queens, died tonight, the national radio network reported. He was 62.
        Few details were available, but Mr. Mahlathini had been sick for some months and the group had not performed for about two years.
        The group, together from 1964 to 1997, was one of the most enduring in South African music. Watching the Queens' combination of jubilant harmonies and choreographed dances was, an American critic said in 1996, like what he imagined a Zulu version of the Supremes would have been two decades after they stopped fitting into their silken gowns. Mr. Mahlathini, sometimes called the Lion of Soweto, wore a chief's regalia on stage -- a leopard skin over his chest, fur armlets and leggings, a skirt of animal tails and beads around his bald pate.
        Into his 50's, he could still leap and kick, and his ''goatlike groaning'' was compared to the style of Howlin' Wolf. The Queens, who provided a chirpy, cooing counterpoint, wore huge red circular Zulu hats, skirts of leather and beadwork, leotards and sneakers.
        Mr. Mahlathini (pronounced mah-shla-TEEN-ey) and the Queens popularized mbaqanga music, which was the post-jazz rage in black townships in the 1960's. It faded, but was revived after Paul Simon's 1986 ''Graceland'' album popularized South African music in the West. Mbaqanga (pronounced mm-bah-KAHNG-guh, with the K formed by popping the tongue off the roof of the mouth) is from a Zulu word for steamed cornbread. It fused songs of several tribes and, by one description, blended kwela, which began as jazz played on children's pennywhistle flutes, with Zulu guitar, which was played on 5-gallon oilcans with wires strung along wooden necks, and translated the whole for brass and electric guitar. Like most South African dance music, it is fast and almost relentlessly cheerful.
        The group, which toured 40 American cities in 1990 and played with Stevie Wonder and Sting, had a hard beginning. West Nkosi, the band's saxophonist and producer who died last year after a car crash, said in 1990 that Mr. Mahlathini had gained attention in the 1950's as a young wedding singer. He worked with choruses up to 60 strong in a call-and-response style sometimes called ''isicathamiya'' or ''sneak attack'' for the way the gentle lead vocal is answered by deep chords, often swooping up an octave or breaking out in a birdlike ululation.
        When Mr. Mahlathini's teen-age voice deepened and Mr. Nkosi pulled the group together, three women and electric instruments replaced the chorus, but the style remained. It was so hard to get radio time that they played outside record stores, asking listeners to buy their albums.
        Their lyrics, mostly in Zulu, were serious, about bringing up children or solving marital problems. They were not overtly political like those of later defiant youngsters like Brenda Fassie, but sometimes alluded to the miseries of apartheid, recalled gospel melodies like ''We Shall Overcome'' and had some lyrics that praised Nelson Mandela. Mr. Nkosi expressed some disappointment that their audiences in America were overwhelmingly white. Speaking of black Americans, he said: ''We've given their music tremendous support in our country. Never mind that they're American. It's about time they took a very important step and started learning about their origins.''
      