
        Clint Youle, a weatherman at WNBQ television in Chicago who was the first to present the weather on a national television news program, died on July 23 at a hospital in Galena, Ill. He was 83 and had lived on a 120-acre homestead in nearby Scales Mound, Ill.
        Mr. Youle made that first national appearance on ''The Camel News Caravan'' with John Cameron Swayze on NBC in May 1949. He reported one to three times a week from Chicago using a Rand McNally map bought at a local store and covered with Plexiglas. He would draw the weather systems on the Plexiglas with a black marker as he gave the forecast. When color television came into wide use in the mid-50's, he added red and orange markers.
        Mr. Youle, who became known in Chicago as The Weatherman and nationally as Mr. Weatherman, was one of several World War II veterans who parlayed their meteorological skills into jobs in the nascent field of television in the late 1940's. During the war, he joined the Army Air Forces, was trained in meteorology and served as an intelligence officer in Panama.
        The first television weatherman, according to the Museum of Television and Radio in New York, was Jim Fidler, a radio announcer, who in 1940 gave a forecast for an experimental station in Cincinnati. The first New York television weather forecast came a year later at experimental station WNBT, which later became WNBC; it featured an animated character called Wooly Lamb.
        It is not known who gave the first commercial weather forecast on television, said Jane Klain, a researcher with the museum. There were several forecasters, including Louis Allen in Washington, who were working on local stations as early as 1948, according to ''Television Weathercasting: A History'' by Robert Henson (McFarland & Company, 1990).
        Mr. Youle, however, was the first to present the weather on a national network, Ms. Klain said.
        He had been a news editor at what became radio station WMAQ, an NBC affiliate, and in January 1949, offered to do the weather on television station WNBQ, citing his military training. WNBQ would later become WMAQ. His first wife, Cherie, did the commercials on his Chicago show. They later divorced.
        In May 1949, he began the national broadcasts on NBC. With his folksy manner, he became such a hit that soon he was on the air five nights a week. He also made occasional documentaries on country life.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Youle complained that commercials were eating into his air time, forcing him to be more of an announcer than a weather forecaster. He left the Chicago station and ''The Camel News Caravan'' in 1959.
        John Clinton Youle, who was born April 4, 1916, in Illinois, then pursued other interests. He owned several small newspapers, and earlier, he had received a degree in English from Wheaton College and worked briefly for The Elizabeth News in Elizabeth, Ill.
        He also invested in oil wells, worked as an investment banker for Lehman Brothers and invented a cattle gate that allows cars and people to pass but hits cows on the head. In his spare time, he studied geology.
        In 1964, he won a seat in the Illinois House of Representatives as a Republican, but chose not to serve more than one two-year term.
        Mr. Youle retired from his other pursuits in 1977. He is survived by his wife, Carol; a son, John of Cairo, Egypt; two daughters, Susan Millstein of Baldwin City, Kan., and Jessica Youle of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a sister, Virginia Marshall of McHenry, Ill., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 4, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Clint Youle, an early television weatherman, misstated the year he left ''The Camel News Caravan'' program. It was 1956, when the program ended, not 1959.
      