
        Robert B. Polhill, an American business professor who was held hostage for 39 months in Lebanon a decade ago, died on Thursday at Georgetown University hospital in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Arlington, Va.
        Mr. Polhill learned that he had throat cancer four days after his release from captivity in April 1990 and later became well-known public speaker on surviving the disease. The immediate cause of death was  complications of chemotherapy being used to treat an unrelated bladder cancer, found last year, said Mr. Polhill's wife, Ferial Seikley.
        She added that her husband, a former heavy smoker, had become equally famous in recent years for enduring both cancer and captivity.
        ''Both kind of went hand in hand,'' she said. ''With either, the message was the same: Never give up.''
        On Jan. 24, 1987, Mr. Polhill was an assistant professor of business studies at Beirut University College, when he and three colleagues were kidnapped by members of a Lebanese militia posing as police officers.
        The act, the largest abduction of Americans in Beirut, was one of several in the 1980's in which foreigners were seized by the militias.
        Mr. Polhill was often chained in a windowless room, poorly fed and isolated much of the time. He endured by dreaming of musical instruments he wanted to learn how to play and of Frank Sinatra singing.
        In an interview shortly after his release, Mr. Polhill said: ''We were slapped around a few times when we misbehaved. We would try to assert ourselves a little bit, or we would reject certain kinds of foods or not move quickly when we were going to the toilet.''
        He also said his captors knocked him down a few times, but never drew blood. ''They were really pulling their punches,'' he said. ''We only had value to them as long as we were well.''
        Though he spent time stuffed into the trunk of a car, he said, after the first three months, he was usually chained by the wrist rather than by the legs.
        Usually kept in residential living rooms, he was sometimes almost comfortable, at least compared with harsh treatment other prisoners in Beirut received. He learned bridge from Alann Steen, a journalism professor, who was held with him.
        Mr. Polhill was one of the first to be freed, in part, it appeared, because of his poor health; he was a diabetic.
        It was during his post-release medical examination that doctors discovered cancer of the larynx. After the larynx was removed, he was fitted with a device that allowed him to speak but at a lower pitch.
        He then began giving speeches on fighting cancer. He was also a recipient of the American Cancer Society's annual Courage Award.
        Mr. Polhill was born on June 3, 1934, in Beacon, N.Y., and was graduated from New York University in 1961. He fell in love with Lebanon while working there in the early 1960's as an accountant for a New York firm. He took a teaching position at Beirut University College in 1983. He met his wife, a naturalized American of Palestinian descent, 20 years ago, in Nicosia, Cyprus.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Stephen Polhill and Brian Polhill, both of Queens.
        Mr. Polhill was planning to return to Beruit, but his most recent illness prevented him.
        ''He wasn't very happy to have his freedom taken from him, and he hoped those responsible would be brought to justice,'' Ms. Seikley said. ''But he never held ill will against the Lebanese.''
      