
        Dr. Alan Angus McLean, a psychiatrist and an authority on mental health in the workplace, died Monday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 73 and lived in Westport, Conn., and Gig Harbor, Wash.
        The cause was complications of cancer of the esophagus, his family said.
        For many years, Dr. McLean was associated with Cornell University Medical College, where he taught and directed the Center for Occupational Psychiatry until 1985, and with I.B.M., which he served as a regional medical director. In 1985 he set up his own consulting firm in psychiatry and occupational medicine, but he continued consulting for International Business Machines until recently.
        He contributed 75 articles to journals and textbooks and was the author or co-author of nine books. ''Mental Health in Industry'' (McGraw-Hill, 1958), written with Graham C. Taylor, was a seminal work that set forth in lay terms how managers may foster mental well-being.
        More recently he published ''Work Stress'' (Addison-Wesley, 1979), and ''High Tech Survival Kit'' (Wiley, 1986).
        Alan McLean was born in China, reared in Washington State and graduated from Downstate Medical College in 1948. He trained in aviation medicine in the Air Force and completed his psychiatric training at the University of Washington, Washington's Western State Hospital, Oregon State Hospital and Cornell University, where he started as an instructor in 1957. He was put in charge of the occupational-health center in 1967 and was named a clinical associate professor the next  year. He was also a psychiatrist at New York Hospital from 1954 to 1985. His association with I.B.M. started in 1957.
        Dr. McLean is survived by his wife of 22 years, Jan Briol McLean; five sons, Robert, of Toronto, Richard, of Vineyard Haven, Mass., Christopher Chinnock of Norwalk, Conn., Randal Chinnock of Sturbridge, Mass., and Duncan Chinnock of Manhattan; a daughter, Kim Moses of White Salmon, Wash.; a brother, William, of Davenport, Wash.; a sister, Sally Cooper of Morton, Wash., and 10 grandchildren.
      