
        James Priest Gifford, a political strategist, spokesman and lobbyist for New York businesses and institutions, died in Manhattan on Jan. 9. He was 56 and lived on the East Side.
        He suffered a heart attack while on a midtown shopping trip, said Evangeline Binder, vice president of Hudson Strategies Inc. Mr. Gifford, its president, founded the company last year. It represented businesses and other clients in their dealings with New York City and New York State.
        Clients who sought his expertise in public policy included the Chase Manhattan Bank, the Brooklyn Museum of Art, Trinity Church and the Nonprofit Coordinating Committee of New York, of which he was a founding board member. The committee, formed in 1983, is a consortium of more than 800 nonprofit organizations; he sat on several of their boards.
        He was a former executive vice president of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry as well as the New York City Partnership, a business alliance affiliated with it. He held leading posts in both organizations from 1983 to 1996, acting as lobbyist and chief spokesman before city, state and Federal offices.
        Mr. Gifford was born in Mechanicsburg, Pa. He graduated in 1963 from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and received M.A. (1965) and Ph.D. (1970) degrees in political science and public administration at Columbia University. He taught political science at the State University at Stony Brook, Jersey City State College and Rutgers University.
        He joined the faculty of City University's John Jay College of Criminal Justice in 1970, rising to acting chairman of the department of government. In 1978, Frank J. Macchiarola, Chancellor of the New York City Board of Education, named him a special assistant. He earned his spurs as a lobbyist and spokesman while serving as the board's legislative representative from 1978 to 1981.
        Over the years, he was chairman of the New York City Youth Board; a trustee of Sailors' Snug Harbor, a seamen's retirement home; director of the New York Business Group on Health, and co-chairman of the New York City Human Services Action Group Steering Committee.
        He is survived by a sister, Judith Neunzig of Bethlehem, Pa., and his wife, Karen Gifford of Manhattan, from whom he was separated.
      