
        John Stears, the father of James Bond's lethal Aston Martin, the Jedi Knights' light sabers, the endearing robots R2-D2 and C-3PO and a host of other ingenious movie gadgets and special effects, died on Monday at the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 64.
        The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Brenda. He had homes in Pacific Palisades, Calif., and Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire, England, where the couple raised cattle and bred show dogs.
        Regarded in the movie industry as the dean of special-effects artists, Mr. Stears added his inventions and calamities to the first eight James Bond thrillers, won an Oscar in 1965 for ''Thunderball,'' and shared a special-effects Academy Award in 1977 for ''Star Wars.''
        In 1986, Mr. Stears was chosen to create the special effects for ''F/X'' (shorthand for special effects), which dealt with the adventures of a special-effects artist much like himself.
        Norman Klein, a professor at California Institute of the Arts who is working on a history of special effects, said Mr. Stears played an important role in the transition from industrial to computer technology in the making of films.
        ''He continued the spark that started the technological wizardry that gave birth to cinema itself,'' Professor Klein said.
        A master of fiery car crashes, ear-splitting detonations and miraculous escapes, Mr. Stears created some of the most famous scenes in the movies. He blew up the villain's Jamaican hideout at the end of ''Dr. No'' (1962), and for ''Goldfinger'' (1964), he created Agent 007's celebrated Aston Martin DB5, featuring bullet-proof windows, revolving license plates, forward-firing machine guns, a rear oil-slick dispenser and a passenger-side ejector seat.
        He also touched off an avalanche for ''On Her Majesty's Secret Service'' (1969), built flying cars for the musical film ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang'' (1968) and the Bond film ''The Man With the Golden Gun'' (1974). For George Lucas's ''Star Wars'' (1977), he dreamed up R2-D2 and C-3PO, Luke Skywalker's land-speeder hover-car, laser-powered light sabers and the Death Star spaceship.
        In ''F/X,'' a special-effects man who works on tawdry, low-budget movies with titles like ''I Dismember Mama'' is commissioned to fake an assassination. When the character (played by Bryan Brown) finds his own name on the schedule for elimination, he fights back with the tools of his trade, including smoke bombs, a tidal wave of lobsters and an explosive charge wired to an electric detonator embedded in the walls of a set.
        The most difficult effect in ''F/X,'' Mr. Stears said at the time, ''was having a character who was standing at a window get shot by a sniper.'' He added, ''The difficulty came because the audience must see the bullet go through the window and then hit the actor, and the actor was wearing virtually no clothes.''
        Asked to explain how the trick was accomplished, he said: ''It took a long while to work out, and you don't give away secrets. When you're at the top, you want to stay there.''
        In that interview, Mr. Stears was critical of both the film industry and his fellow special-effects practitioners.
        ''Now,'' he declared, ''the whole thing of special effects has gone too far. In the 50's, special effects patched up a movie as cheaply as possible. Now, with technicians and directors trying to outdo previous technicians and directors, things are getting very unsafe. There have been some horrendous accidents.''
        Mr. Stears noted that even when he made ''F/X,'' he had only one assistant, while special-effects teams now could have as many as 50.
        ''There's too much specialization -- miniatures, motion control, animatronics, prosthetics,'' he continued. ''Old-timers like myself do everything.''
        John Stears was born on Aug. 25, 1934, in Uxbridge, England. After attending Harrow College of Art and Southall Technical College, he served in the Air Ministry as a draftsman.
        Later, he joined a firm of architects, where he made scale models of buildings for the firm's clients.
        His work brought him to the attention of the film special-effects expert Bill Warrington, who commissioned him to build model aircraft for Lewis Gilbert's ''Reach for the Sky'' (1956).
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Stears worked for the Rank Organization, building model boats and aircraft for films like ''The One That Got Away'' (1957) and ''A Night to Remember'' (1958).
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Stears is survived by two daughters, Jacqueline and Janet, both of Pacific Palisades and Beaconsfield, and three brothers, Peter and David, who live in England, and Andrew of Sao Paulo, Brazil.
        While Mr. Stears was working on the James Bond films, where he enjoyed having a free hand in dreaming up gadgets to get Bond out of trouble, at least one of his inventions never left the drawing board. He designed a mechanism for Bond's super-automobile that would fling three-pronged nails behind it to discourage pursuers. Scotland Yard officials asked that the device not be used in the film for fear that it might inspire real-life criminals.
        Correction:  July 7, 1999, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about John Stears, a special effects artist, misstated the date of his death. It was April 28, not June 28; the family announced the death late in June.
      