
        Sir John Woolf, who produced such films as ''The African Queen,'' ''Oliver!'' and ''The Day of the Jackal,''  died on Monday at his home in London. He was 86.
        Sir John, whose films won 13 Oscars, trusted his instincts so resolutely that he put up half the money for ''The African Queen'' even though a friend, the director Sir Alexander Korda, warned him against it.
        Sir Alexander is reported to have cautioned: ''Two old people going up and down an African river . . . who's going to be interested in that? You'll be bankrupt!''
        The 1951 movie, which starred Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn, became a hit at the box office and a movie classic. Bogart won an Oscar as best actor and Miss Hepburn was nominated for best actress.
        Born on March 15, 1913, in Cricklewood, North London, John Woolf attended Eton College and Institut Montana in Switzerland. He said he learned about making films from his father, C. M. Woolf, who  made his fortune by financing, distributing and exhibiting films after World War I.
        In the late 1930's Sir John's father formed General Film Distributions after resigning from the Gaumont British Picture Corporation in 1937. He is credited with bringing the producer J. Arthur Rank into the film industry.
        Sir John became a managing director after his father died in 1942. He and his brother, James, formed the successful independent production company Romulus Films in 1948.
        In addition to ''The African Queen,'' Romulus Films produced such popular movies as ''Richard III'' (1956), a co-production with Sir Alexander that Laurence Olivier directed and starred in; ''Moulin Rouge'' (1952) and ''Beat the Devil'' (1954); an adaptation of John Braine's novel ''Room at the Top'' (1959), and the Oscar-winning musical ''Oliver!'' (1968). In all, Sir John's films won 13 Oscars.
        In the late 1950's Sir John extended his reach into television. He founded Anglia Television, which produced more than 100 plays and internationally broadcast series like ''Orson Welles' Great Mysteries'' and ''Tales of the Unexpected.''
        Sir John was knighted in 1975 for his work in the British film industry.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann,  and a son.
      