
        Viktor M. Chebrikov, who led the Soviet K.G.B. through much of its final tumultuous confrontation with the West in the 1980's, died unexpectedly on July 1, the intelligence service's successor, the Federal Security Service, reported on Saturday.
        Mr. Chebrikov was 76 years old. The service did not disclose a cause of death.
        He was chairman of the Committee on State Security, as the K.G.B. was formally known, from 1982 to 1988, and held the organization's rank of general. The Soviet Union was struggling hardest against irreversible decline in those years, and President Ronald Reagan was pressing proxy wars against Moscow in Nicaragua and Afghanistan.
        As K.G.B. chairman and a member of the Soviet Politburo, Mr. Chebrikov played a crucial role in conducting the war in Afghanistan, where the Soviet Army's costly defeat emboldened domestic critics and helped hasten the end of Soviet Communism.
        He retired as K.G.B. chief in October 1988, not long before the last Soviet soldier left Afghanistan.
        Despite that black mark, however, Mr. Chebrikov's tenure is undoubtedly best known for his agency's spectacular success in lifting some of the most closely held secrets in all American intelligence -- led, first and foremost, by the complete roster of Americans and Russians who were working for the Central Intelligence Agency inside the Soviet Union.
        It was Mr. Chebrikov's K.G.B. that found and nurtured Aldrich Ames, the C.I.A. employee who volunteered his services to the K.G.B. in the mid-1980's and who handed the Soviets the American playbook for espionage there in 1985.
        The K.G.B. quickly arrested and executed at least a dozen Soviet citizens on the lists Mr. Ames supplied, throwing American intelligence into confusion for much of the last half of the decade. The Soviets publicly teased the Americans about their losses, once publishing a dramatic newspaper article documenting the unmasking of one such agent, code-named Top Hat, who had given the Americans crucial intelligence as far back as the 1960's.
        They also appear to have misled the Americans skillfully about the existence of a traitor in their midst by using deception -- and perhaps even sacrificing some of their less-valued American assets -- to throw American counterintelligence off the trail.
        To this day, American experts still debate whether a senior K.G.B. official who defected to the United States in 1985, Vitaly Yurchenko, was a genuine defector or a K.G.B. plant sent to mask Mr. Ames's role. Mr. Yurchenko put the C.I.A. on the trail of at least two Americans who were working for Soviet intelligence during his debriefings in suburban Washington, and also assured the agency that the K.G.B. had not penetrated C.I.A. headquarters.
        Mr. Yurchenko redefected to the Soviet side weeks later, saying that the C.I.A. had drugged and mistreated him during a period of forced captivity.
        The senior intelligence official in the Reagan White House during most of Mr. Chebrikov's tenure, Kenneth E. deGraffenreid, said today that he knew Mr. Chebrikov only from a distance as ''a successful apparatchik who had gotten to the top.''
        But in retrospect, he said, ''One has to say that this was the heyday of the K.G.B. in terms of foreign intelligence.''
        ''In terms of intelligence production -- spies, and dishing the Americans on the secrets -- they were going strong right up to the end,'' said Mr. deGraffenreid, senior director of intelligence programs from 1981 to 1987. ''We uncovered 80 spies during those years. These guys were on the make, and there was no question about their influence.''
        Viktor Mikhailovich Chebrikov was born in Dnepropetrovsk, an industrial city in eastern Ukraine, in 1923. After finishing military school in 1942, he served in World War II as a battalion commander, then returned to Dnepropetrovsk to complete his education at a metallurgical institute. He held a long series of minor party posts in Ukraine before moving to run personnel operations for the Communist Party Central Committee in 1967. He was deputy chairman of the K.G.B. from 1968 to 1982.
        His death was little noted in Moscow. The news service Interfax ran a two-sentence death announcement, and three of Moscow's many newspapers published a brief memorial from the Federal Security Service without comment.
        The newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda quoted a subsequent K.G.B. chairman, Leonid V. Shebarshin, as saying that Mr. Chebrikov was, ''A man, with a capital letter.''
        ''Come to the cemetery and you will see that not only his friends will come there, but his ideological opponents,'' he said. ''What can be more important?''
      