
        Dr. Mario Dario Grossi, a radio physicist and engineer who developed the concept of tethered satellites as well as the hardware that made such free-flying space maneuvers possible, died Jan. 11 at Boston Medical Center in Boston. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Teaming with a colleague, Dr. Giuseppe Colombo, Dr. Grossi did much of his work at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, where he had an office to work on the tether project. Until 1995 he was also a consulting engineer for the Raytheon Company in Cambridge.
        Dr. Grossi first approached the National Aeronautics and Space Administration with the idea of tethered space orbiters in 1972. He and Dr. Colombo of the University of Padua studied and tested its feasibility, and NASA issued the contract to build a system in 1982.
        It took an additional 10 years for the space shuttle Atlantis to put the tether to the real test in space, in July 1992, and it worked. The shuttle crew reeled out a half-ton satellite of the Italian Space Agency dangling on a spaghetti-thin cord 12 miles long.
        The purpose was to place the spherical research satellite, five feet in diameter, high above the shuttle. An Italian astronaut-engineer, Dr. Franco Malerba, oversaw the operation from the shuttle cabin as the sphere flew away and, hours later, was reeled back in.
        In addition to its scientific harvest, the successful flight provided data on how long wire tethers could be used in building space stations and operating instrument-laden satellites far from the shuttle.
        Mario Grossi was born in Tuscany. He received a doctorate in radio engineering at the University of Pisa in 1948 and a degree in microwave physics at a center in Florence. He worked as a research and design engineer in Italy before he joined Raytheon's Equipment and Systems Division in 1958 as an engineer.
        The next year, he also became associated with the Smithsonian Observatory and accepted the position of research associate at the Harvard College Observatory. His investigations covered many areas in radio physics and engineering and contributed to various NASA projects besides the tethering.
        Dr. Grossi also engaged in humanitarian work, like helping dissident Jewish scientists leave the Soviet Union. In 1996, the President of Italy presented him with the country's Gold Medal for the Betterment of Science and Culture.
        Dr. Grossi's survivors include his wife of 42 years, Adele Sangi Grossi; a daughter, Marina Grossi of Boston; a son, Fabio, of Grapevine, Tex., and two granddaughters.
      