
        Edouard Boubat, one of France's most celebrated postwar photographers who was best known for his poetic images of children, died here on Wednesday. He was 75.
        The cause was leukemia, said Liberation, the newspaper.
        Mr. Boubat traveled widely during a career that lasted almost 50 years, but unlike many photographers of his generation he showed no interest in political events. His rule, ''no bodies, no blood, no war,'' even earned him the nickname of peace correspondent, given to him by the French poet Jacques Prevert.
        Rather, what attracted him was the beauty of life, wherever he found it. He liked photographing women, animals, trees and nature as well as children, and his use of light gave his work a special quality. Invariably the emotion evoked by his images is tenderness, as in one of his most popular photographs, ''La Petite Fille aux Feuilles Mortes.''
        ''He was a marvelous photographer and a photographer of the marvelous,'' Michel Guerrin wrote in Le Monde on Thursday. ''His rich and complex body of work was dominated by three elements: autobiography, poetry and mystery.''
        Born in Paris, he studied photo-engraving and seemed headed for a job in industry. But in 1943 he was sent to join hundreds of thousands of Frenchmen who were doing forced labor in Germany. Later he recalled seeing Leipzig in flames from Allied bombing. ''We saw the Nazi crimes,'' he said. ''I saw the horrors.''
        After the war he found work in a factory in Paris, but he was drawn to photography and began taking pictures on Sundays. By 1951 he had gained enough recognition to be invited to exhibit with a group of well-known photographers, including Brassai and Robert Doisneau. The next year he worked as a staff photographer at Realites, a successful photography magazine.
        ''While other photographers took many images so that our employer could make lots of money, Boubat made a point of not 'covering' his subjects,'' recalled Jean-Philippe Charbonnier, a former colleague. ''He would take just a few photos and would return when he felt like it, but there were always three images that you could not forget.''
        Mr. Boubat traveled in Europe, Africa and Latin America, always  searching for moments of purity and peace, as with his photograph of a Portuguese man in dark trilby and vest looking out to sea as he holds a sleeping child in his arms. In 1967 he resigned from Realites and worked  as an independent photographer associated with the Top/Rapho agency.
        He is survived by his wife, Sophie, and their son, Bernard.
        ''There is something instinctive about the moment you choose to 'take' a photograph,'' he once explained. ''It's not the result of thought or reflection. The strength of the composition is always born of the instant of the decision. It reminds me of archery. There is the tension of the bow and the free flight of the arrow.''
      