
        AT 9:15 this morning, a sleep-deprived Howard Wolfson is to accompany a lawyer to the Federal Election Commission in Washington as the lawyer files a  piece of paper establishing the Hillary Rodham Clinton for United States  Senate Exploratory Committee. After tending to the television cameras, and perhaps savoring his small role in history, Mr. Wolfson will then travel to Albany and begin caring for 200 reporters assembling from around the world who are to trail Mrs. Clinton, starting tomorrow, on a four-day campaign trip across New York; the  opening day, simultaneously, of the wildest ride of Mr. Wolfson's life.
        ''I was in at 6 this morning and I'll probably be here until midnight,'' Mr. Wolfson said distractedly but not unhappily over lunch, as his pager vibrated steadily against his hip.
        Mr. Wolfson, 32, is Mrs. Clinton's press secretary for her exploratory committee, a job he has held for a political eon, 11 days.
        On Friday afternoon, June 25, Harold M. Ickes, Mrs. Clinton's political adviser, offered Mr. Wolfson the job of press secretary to the first First Lady to explore running for political office on her own. By the following Monday, Mr. Wolfson was out of the Capitol Hill offices of Representative Nita M. Lowey of Westchester, where he was the chief of staff, and ensconced in a corner room of Mr. Ickes's Washington lobbying firm. Since then he has been, basically, on the phone. And not sleeping.
        ''This is going to be nuts,'' said Josh Isay, the chief of staff to Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is a good friend of Mr. Wolfson's. ''He's perfect for them.''
        Mr. Isay, who was Mr. Schumer's campaign manager for his 1998 Senate race while Mr. Wolfson was Mr. Schumer's director of communications, meant his assessment as a compliment. In short, Mr. Isay said, Mr. Wolfson has just the right amount of obsessiveness, aggressiveness and capacity for hard work required in a race that will rival a Presidential campaign. (Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani is Mrs. Clinton's likely opponent in the New York Senate race, although neither has officially declared a candidacy.)
        Mr. Wolfson was one of those responsible for the Schumer campaign's daily ''rapid response'' counterpunches to attacks by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who was thought unbeatable at the beginning of the race. ''If he uses a fist, you use a bat,'' Mr. Wolfson told his troops each day, citing a line from the movie ''The Untouchables'': ''If he uses a knife, you use a gun.''
        And it was Mr. Wolfson who raced with Mr. Isay to Elaine's late one night in search of former Police Commissioner William J. Bratton, hoping to find Mr. Bratton to get assurances that he would appear at an endorsement news conference the next morning. (They didn't find him, but Mr. Bratton turned up in the morning nonetheless. Mr. Wolfson was in before that, at 5:30.)
        SUCH is Mr. Wolfson's stock among New York politicians that Ms. Lowey, his former boss, called up unsolicited to say nice things about him. ''He is overwhelmed,'' she said. ''It's a huge job. But he's up to it.''
        Ms. Lowey, who announced last month she would not run for the Senate because, she said, Mrs. Clinton's intentions were clear, also offered the unsolicited view that Mrs. Clinton was not engaged in staff-napping, and had not lured Mr. Wolfson away. ''Several people have been saying that she stole him,'' Ms. Lowey reported. ''That wasn't the case at all.'' After she dropped out of the race, Ms. Lowey said, she called Mrs. Clinton and offered up Mr. Wolfson for an interview. ''And she was very grateful,'' Ms. Lowey said.
        Meanwhile, the object of the women's affections, Mr. Wolfson, was trying to concentrate the other day over his grilled chicken sandwich at Luna, a restaurant across from Mr. Ickes's office, but he kept looking at his watch, worrying about his pager and trying, apparently, to be uninteresting, lest he say something delicious that might offend his new boss at the White House. (He spent an hour with her before he got the job, and described her as ''very warm'' and ''funny.'')
        Mr. Wolfson wouldn't say what the two talked about, but it is probably safe to say that Mrs. Clinton was pleased to hear that Mr. Wolfson grew up in an apartment in Yonkers. His parents, who divorced when he was a toddler, were teachers; his father taught social studies at a junior high school in South Orange, N.J., and his mother special education at public elementary schools in the Bronx.
        Mr. Wolfson went to Yonkers public schools until the fifth grade, switched to the Fieldston School in Riverdale, the Bronx; graduated from the University of Chicago, got a master's degree in American history at Duke University and read the Theodore H. White ''Making of the President'' books throughout. He got his first job on Capitol Hill in August 1992, with Representative Jim Jontz of Indiana, who lost his bid for re-election in November. ''It was not an auspicious way to begin a career,'' Mr. Wolfson said. He was hired in 1993 by Ms. Lowey, who lent him to Mr. Schumer last year. Mr. Wolfson's girlfriend, Terri McCullough, is a lobbyist for the National Abortion Rights Action League in Washington.
        Yesterday, Mr. Wolfson said he had no knowledge of Mrs. Clinton's house-hunting forays or her possible vacation plans in New York.
        ''The only vacation plans I'm aware of are my own,'' he said. ''I have none.''
      