
        J. Curtis Counts, a veteran labor negotiator who directed the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for an old friend, President Richard M. Nixon, died on June 30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Counts had a 28-year career with the Douglas Aircraft Company, where he rose to vice president for employee relations. He quit in 1969 when Nixon took him aboard his Administration the week after he was sworn in as President.
        Mr. Counts directed the mediation agency until 1973 and was credited with bolstering its ability to settle big labor confrontations before they ballooned into strikes or lockouts.
        In his day, Mr. Counts huddled with barons of organized labor, including George Meany of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Walter Reuther of the United Automobile Workers and James R. Hoffa of the teamsters union. Mr. Counts's biggest test came early in 1970 when he helped end a 95-day strike against General Electric.
        A portly man with a down-to-earth manner, he took the helm of the mediation agency saying he wanted to make it ''so effective that the scope of our activities is well recognized and voluntarily sought, and the disputes of any kind, particularly those of national significance, are minimized to the greatest degree.''
        Those who worked with Mr. Counts  called him a quick study whose background enabled him to analyze situations rapidly and to focus on possible solutions.
        James Curtis Counts was born in Goldfield, Colo., the son of a gold miner who later settled in Hollywood to build film studio sets. He worked his way through the University of California, studying political science and graduating in in 1937.
        He received his degree from Southwestern Law School in 1941, when he went to work for Douglas Aircraft in Santa Monica, Calif., as a clerk. Rising through the ranks, he was named director of employee relations in 1962 and added the title of vice president two years later.
        After his Government service, Mr. Counts returned to the private sector as a management consultant. He took part in the collective bargaining process in the construction and trucking industries.
        His wife, Virginia Shugart Counts, died in 1996 after 56 years of marriage. He is survived by two daughters, Carol Hooper of Los Angeles and Janis Ocean of Reno; a son, Jay C., of Dallas, nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Curt Counts met Nixon when he was in law school and Mr. Counts's girlfriend, Virginia, roomed with Mr. Nixon's girlfriend and future wife, Thelma Patricia Ryan. The couples met at a post-Rose Bowl party and remained fast friends.
        George P. Shultz, the Secretary of Labor at the beginning of Nixon's first term, said he was unaware of that friendship when he picked the new director of the Mediation and Conciliation Service from among veterans in the field. By all accounts, Mr. Counts's qualifications for the task were not in doubt among those who dealt with him.
        A dedicated chef, Mr. Counts prepared breakfast for his family most mornings for many years and loved to cook other meals as well, particularly omelets, Mexican food and barbecued dishes. He also liked to eat.
        ''You can tell that by looking at me,'' he said.
      