
        Joaquin Rodrigo, a major figure in Spanish classical music whose haunting masterpiece, ''Concierto de Aranjuez,'' inspired dozens of interpretations worldwide, including a jazz version by Miles Davis, died on Tuesday at his home in Madrid. He was 97.
        Maestro Rodrigo, as the blind composer was frequently called, wrote 26 works for the guitar and helped to move that instrument to center stage in concert halls. The three-movement ''Concierto de Aranjuez'' is his most widely performed guitar piece, and there are some 50 recordings of it currently on the market, said Spain's royalty collection society, the General Society of Authors and Publishers.
        Spain's Culture Minister, Mariano Rajoy, called Mr. Rodrigo ''one of the most relevant figures in Spanish music,'' the news agency EFE reported.
        Mr. Rodrigo was born in Sagunto in southeastern Spain on Nov. 22, 1901. His father was a large landowner and influential conservative politician. When Joaquin was 3, diphtheria  severely impaired his eyesight, and he later went completely blind.
        He began studying piano and violin and by his early 20's was an accomplished pianist and budding composer. His first orchestral work, ''Juglares,'' had its premiere in 1924 in Valencia. He moved to Paris in 1927,  studied under Paul Dukas and met the well-known Spanish composer Manuel de Falla, whom he befriended. In Paris Mr. Rodrigo also met the Turkish pianist Victoria Kamhi. They married in 1933 and were inseparable companions and collaborators until her death in July 1997.
        During much of the Spanish Civil War, from 1936-39, Mr. Rodrigo lived in Paris or Salzburg, and in 1939, at the suggestion of the guitarist Regino Sainz de la Maza, he composed ''Concierto de Aranjuez.'' Largely written in Paris, it had its premiere on Nov. 9, 1940, in Barcelona with the Barcelona Philharmonic Orchestra and De la Maza as soloist.
        The piece became so popular that Mr. Rodrigo later complained that it was like a great tree that cast a shadow on his other music. Aranjuez is a town 30 miles southeast of Madrid whose main point of interest is the 18th-century Bourbon royal summer palace and its lush gardens.
        The concerto's second movement, an Adagio about 11 minutes long, has the work's signature melody, which begins as a slow cadence played by strings and woodwinds, later by guitar, and in a climax by the full orchestra. Miles Davis used the concerto as inspiration for his 1959 album ''Sketches of Spain,'' and Chick Corea did likewise on his jazz piece ''Spain.''
        A fellow composer, Xavier Montsalvatge, who attended the 1940 debut in Barcelona, wrote after Mr. Rodrigo's death that ''the work even then made a great impression for the originality of being one of the first concertos for guitar and orchestra, and for its great beauty.''
        Mr. Rodrigo took a teaching position in 1940 at Madrid's Royal Higher Conservatory of Music. In the 1940's he also worked as a music critic for various Madrid newspapers and was musical adviser for Spain's National Radio. In 1958 Mr. Rodrigo's ''Fantasia Para un Gentilhombre'' (''Fantasy for a Gentleman''), written for Andres Segovia, had its premiere in San Francisco, with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra and Segovia as soloist.
        Mr. Rodrigo wrote more than 200 works in a variety of genres and styles, for ballet, movies, light operas, and for voice, piano and full orchestra. A Spanish poet, Gerardo Diego, said that Mr. Rodrigo created acoustical landscapes, and critics said his style blended a vital, lyrical happiness with strong touches of melancholy. In 1991 King Juan Carlos I granted Mr. Rodrigo the royal title of Marquis of the Aranjuez Gardens. The concert hall in that city is named for him.
        He is survived by a daughter, Cecilia.
        Mr. Rodrigo once said that his ''Concierto de Aranjuez'' was about ''looking for the roots, the most traditional and authentic Spanish things.'' He added, ''I like to be an ambassador for Spain.''
      