
        Thor Axel Kappfjell, a parachutist who frustrated the police and entertained the public with daredevil leaps from some of the world's tallest buildings, including the World Trade Center, the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building in New York, was killed on Tuesday after he miscalculated a stunt jump from a cliff in Norway, The Associated Press reported. He was 32 and lived in Drammen, Norway.
        Mr. Kappfjell was killed just after midnight when he jumped off the 3,300-foot high Kjeraag cliff over the waters of Lysefjord near Stavanger,  300 miles west of Oslo, the agency said. He was the third of a dozen jumpers planning to leap in thick fog.
        Mr. Kappfjell made headlines around the world for his daredevil stunts. He jumped from more than 200 mountains, towers and landmark buildings, including the Eiffel Tower in Paris, the Norwegian Prime Minister's office in Oslo and the 95-story Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur.
        Mr. Kappfjell's daredeviltry in New York began on Oct. 25, 1998, when he plunged from the 86th-floor observation deck of the Empire State Building.
        In an interview with an Oslo newspaper, Dagbladet, Mr. Kappfjell called the jump from the Empire State Building ''my biggest dream  for many years.''
        Three days later he jumped from  the 61st floor of the Chrysler Building. In each case he vanished before the police could capture him.
        Mr. Kappfjell intended to cap his adventure with a leap from the World Trade Center but appeared to back down after Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani threatened him with arrest, calling his actions ''irresponsible.''
        ''I know it gets a great deal of attention,'' the Mayor said. ''It's really a stupid and jerky thing to do, and it's a very dangerous thing to do, not only for him but for the people below.''
        On March 25, he returned to the World Trade Center, ducked security and plunged 110 stories to the ground. ''It was fantastic,'' he told The New York Post afterward. ''I have no words to describe it.''
        This time he was arrested. He  pleaded guilty on April to three counts of reckless endangerment and was sentenced to seven days of community service.
        The parachutist then sued the executives of the television show ''Extra,'' contending they had him arrested rather than pay for a videotape of his last New York jump.
        The State Supreme Court suit said that Mr. Kappfjell had previously sold the show videotapes of his leaps from the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building for a total of $7,500.
        Mr. Kappfjell said he gave an executive of the program a videotape of his jump from the World Trade Center. But instead of paying him, the suit claimed, the executive alerted the police and sent a crew to tape his arrest, ''in violation of common decency,'' then used the videotape of Mr. Kappfjell's parachute jump without his consent.
        The program denied all the allegations.
        Mr. Kappfjell earned his living as  an offshore oil worker. He was single and told The Associated Press that as a result he could afford all the fines he had been assessed over the years.
      