
        Harry H. Eckstein, a political scientist who argued that a critically important role in determining whether democracy succeeded in a country was played by the country's political culture, or what he called its authority patterns, died on June 22 in Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 75 and lived near Newport Beach.
        The cause was heart failure, the University of California at Irvine said in announcing his death.
        At his death, Professor Eckstein, who lived in Nazi Germany as a boy, was Distinguished Research Professor of Political Science at the Irvine campus, where he had taught since 1980. He previously taught at Harvard and Princeton universities.
        His view of the importance of a country's political culture in the success of democracy, and not just its constitution and formal institutions, was very influential among political scientists in the United States and abroad, beginning in the 1960's, said Walter F. Murphy, who retired in 1995 as the McCormick Professor of Jurisprudence in Princeton's department of politics.
        And Gabriel A. Almond, a political scientist who taught at Stanford University, wrote in 1998 that Professor Eckstein had ''won a lasting place in the systematic literature on the properties and conditions of democratic stability.''
        According to Professor Eckstein's theory, ''governments perform well to the extent that their authority patterns are congruent with the authority patterns of other units of society,'' like families, schools and workplaces.
        Professor Murphy said Professor Eckstein had found ''that the Norwegian system was very compatible with democracy, because you could criticize, you could have give and take.'' But in the Germany Professor Eckstein had known as a boy, Professor Murphy said, ''the father ruled the family; in the school, the professor was God, etc., and his argument was that it was almost impossible to have a democratic system unless you changed that subculture as well.''
        ''He believed that you could do that,'' Professor Murphy said, ''but you had to work to change it.''
        Professor Eckstein, born into a Jewish family in Schotten, Germany, was brought to the United States when he was 12, lived in Columbus, Ohio, and went on to obtain bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees, all in political science, from Harvard.
        His first four marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marlene Hamilton, whom he married in 1995; a son, Jonathan Eckstein of Princeton, N.J.; a stepson, Eric Sterling Ament of Ruidoso, N.M., and two grandchildren.
      