
        Joshua Nkomo, the once-fiery African nationalist and guerrilla leader who was father to Zimbabwe's struggle for independence, died today in the Zimbabwean capital, Harare. He was 82.
        Although he spent his final decade as the country's Vice President, he had long ago been outmaneuvered and crushed by his former aide, President Robert Mugabe, and had become a bitter and nearly silent figurehead.
        He had prostate cancer, and had largely withdrawn from political life in the last three years.
        Because he still had influence among his people in southern Zimbabwe, there are fears of unrest after his death. The whole country is suffering as food and gasoline prices have soared, but people from his area say Mr. Mugabe discriminates against them.
        The President paid tribute to Mr. Nkomo on state radio today, saying:  ''We grieve the loss of a father figure, a founder of our nation, this great man whose life was spent in struggle. The giant has fallen.''
        Joshua Mqabuko Nyongolo Nkomo was born in 1917. He was the son of a teacher and lay preacher for the London Missionary Society and as a youth worked as a truck driver and carpenter to pay for his schooling in South Africa. In 1952, as a 35-year-old union leader, he was elected president of the Southern Rhodesian African National Congress.
        He soon helped the colonial authorities win support for confederation plans, but then stormed out of a London conference that endorsed them. Heavily criticized, he briefly retired to work as an auctioneer, but was called back into liberation politics as a moderate leader who could work with whites. That indecisiveness, his critics said, was to dog him for the rest of his career.
        In the next three decades, he began by negotiating for independence, then fighting for it as British rule was superseded by the Rhodesian Government of white colonists headed by Ian D. Smith that broke with Britain in 1965. Guerrilla sabotage of railways, crops and cattle gave way to killings of farmers and drivers on lonely roads as the white Government increased its oppression.
        Mr. Nkomo and other leaders were repeatedly imprisoned. Arrested in 1964, he spent the next 10 years in a prison camp. In proposing to release him and begin reconciliation talks,  Mr. Smith hectored him about terrorism, and Mr. Nkomo became enraged, and said, referring to his Buffalo Range prison: ''He was so arrogant and rude. I told him he was the biggest terrorist ever and asked him to put me back on the plane to Buffalo Range, and forget about me.'' Instead, he was soon let go, but the peace effort collapsed.
        In 1963 Mr. Mugabe and others left his party. In the next two decades, alliances between different leaders shifted, but the split was essentially tribal: Mr. Nkomo led what became the Zimbabwean African People's Union, most of whose members were Ndebele.
        The Ndebele, who occupy the southern quarter of the country, called Matabeleland, form about 20 percent of the population. They are descended from a branch of the Zulus who were led into the area by their chief, Mzilikazi, in the 19th century and slaughtered, raped and dispossessed the local Shona people.
        Mr. Mugabe's party, the Zimbawean African National Union, represents the Shona-speaking 70 percent. The old hatreds still rankle.
        The two men could hardly be more different. Mr. Nkomo was loud, burly and egocentric but sometimes jolly; Mr. Mugabe slim, intellectual, cunning and a dandy. Though they joined their efforts as the Patriotic Front in 1976, they never merged their armies. Mr. Mugabe, based in Mozambique, relied on China for arms; the Soviet Union gave Mr. Nkomo's smaller force better weapons, leading to suspicion that it was grooming him to stage a coup once independence was achieved.
        In 1975, from exile in Zambia, Mr. Nkomo briefly negotiated separately with Mr. Smith, leading to accusations that he was selling out. In 1978, a particularly brutal incident vilified him in white eyes. His troops shot down an Air Rhodesia flight with 56 civilians aboard; 18 survived the crash, but guerrillas reached the site and shot 10 in cold blood.
        In a BBC radio interview, Mr. Nkomo chuckled about it. White Rhodesians, furious, mounted ever more brutal counterattacks, but the end for them was clearly nearer.
        At independence in 1980, the victors split again. Mr. Mugabe swept to an electoral victory, taking 57 parliamentary seats to Mr. Nkomo's 20. By agreement, whites retained 20.
        Mr. Nkomo was made Home Affairs Minister in Mr. Mugabe's Government, but was dismissed in 1982, accused of coup-plotting. Mr. Nkomo's fighters deserted the army and went home. Mr. Mugabe sent his Presidential Guard and North Korea-trained Fifth Brigade into Matabeleland; they killed more than 10,000 people, including many villagers, in the next five years.
        In 1983, Mr. Nkomo fled to Botswana and then London, saying Mr. Mugabe's troops had raided his home and killed his driver in an assassination attempt.
        Six months later, he was persuaded to return to negotiate peace. Talks dragged on for years. In a 1986 interview, embittered and speaking in a raspy whisper, he sat in his modest house in a suburb of Bulawayo, the old Ndebele capital whose name means ''the place of killing.''
        He dandled the carved stick that had become his symbol, and said of his relationship with Mr. Mugabe: ''The Prime Minister seems to be hostile toward me. I've suffered much more in the last four years than in the 30 years of my struggle for independence. I have nothing against him myself. Why should I?''
        An accord was signed in 1987 under which Mr. Mugabe, seeking a Marxist one-party state, absorbed the party of Mr. Nkomo, who became Vice President. Mr. Mugabe's party ended up with 147 of the seats in the new 150-seat Parliament. Mr. Mugabe celebrated the accord, saying they could ''move into the future hand in hand.''
        Mr. Nkomo's enthusiasm was more subdued. He urged his followers ''not to look to who has gained and not gained'' but to take pride in a more united nation.
        He had himself favored one-party rule, but said that declaring it ''when you preach tribalism and when you attack people because they speak a language which is not your own'' was tantamount to ''putting gunpowder under your feet -- one day you will be blown away.''
        Since then he was a largely ineffectual figure, rallying support for the Government in Matabeleland but doing little else as Mr. Mugabe's rule became more autocratic.
        Mr. Nkomo is survived by his wife, Johanna, and three children. His  body will lie in state until Saturday, and he will be buried in Heroes' Acre in Harare.
        Correction:  July 3, 1999, Saturday  An obituary headline yesterday about Joshua Nkomo, the Zimbabwean independence leader, misstated his age. He was 82, not 62.
      