
        Mark O'Brien, the subject of an Academy Award-winning documentary about his journalism career, conducted mostly from an iron lung,  died on July 4 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 49.
        The cause was complications from bronchitis, said Mr. O'Brien's brother, Kenneth.
        The 1997 film ''Breathing Lessons: The Life and Work of Mark O'Brien,'' directed by Jessica Yu, described his struggle to live productively with minimal assistance and his determination to live on his own and work. He also founded a publishing company.
        Months of declining health had kept Mr. O'Brien dependent on the iron lung for all but a few hours a week, his friends said.
        Mr. O'Brien, who was born in Boston and reared in Sacramento, Calif., was a boy when polio left him paralyzed from the neck down and forced him to use the iron lung.
        At some times in his youth, and for a brief period as recently as last year, Mr. O'Brien's breathing could be supported by an inflatable vest called a turtle shell. But for most of his life he depended on the much more cumbersome iron lung, which encased most of his body and helped him breathe by changing the pressure around him.
        About 100 polio survivors in the United States are using iron lungs.
        Mr. O'Brien enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley in 1978. He became a familiar figure on the streets of Berkeley, navigating his electric gurney on trips between the campus and the tiny apartment where he kept his iron lung. In 1982, he received a bachelor's degree in English literature.
        After repeated applications, Mr. O'Brien was admitted to the Graduate School of Journalism at Berkeley. His acceptance set a precedent that helped other severely disabled applicants to state universities.
        His work was first published in 1979, when Co-Evolution Quarterly printed his essay on independent living. Sandy Close, executive editor of Pacific News Service, saw the article and hired Mr. O'Brien as a correspondent. Mr. Close later produced ''Breathing Lessons.''
        Mr. Close said Mr. O'Brien initially dictated his articles, then used a stick in his mouth to press the keys of an I.B.M. Selectric typewriter and finally employed a word processor.
        In 1997, Mr. O'Brien co-founded Lemonade Factory, a small press in Berkeley that publishes poetry by people with disabilities.
        Mr. O'Brien, who said his strong Roman Catholic faith helped him  cope with his disability, had two great passions besides writing: baseball and Shakespeare.
        In addition to his brother, Kenneth, of Granite Bay, Calif., he is survived by his father, Walter F., also of Granite Bay, and a sister, Rachel Jordan, of Weimar, Calif.
        Mr. O'Brien published several volumes of poetry, including a collection called ''Breathing,'' which included the following lines:
        This most excellent canopy, the air, look you,
        Presses down upon me
        At fifteen pounds per square inch,
        A dense, heavy, blue glowing ocean,
        Supporting the weight of condors
        That swim its churning currents.
        All I get is a thin stream of it,
        A finger's width of the rope that ties me to life
        As I labor like a stevedore to keep the connection.
        Correction:  July 16, 1999, Friday  An obituary on Sunday about Mark O'Brien, the subject of an Academy Award-winning documentary about his journalism career, conducted mostly from an iron lung, referred incorrectly to an editor for whom he worked. The editor, Sandy Close, is a woman.
      