
        James A. Barnes Jr., who in 1962 piloted a U-2 spy plane that helped alert the United States to the threat of a Soviet missile buildup in Cuba, died on Tuesday at El Camino Hospital in Mountain View, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Los Altos, Calif.
        The cause was a stroke, his son Robert said.
        James Barnes, a civilian contract pilot for the Central Intelligence Agency, was flying over Cuba in October 1962 when his cameras zoomed in on the missile sites and touched off one of the most frightening confrontations of the cold war.
        Because of a rivalry between the C.I.A. and the Air Force -- the Air Force believed that the C.I.A. was stealing its best pilots and ground crews -- the surveillance of Cuba was turned over to the Air Force.
        Today it remains a question whether Mr. Barnes or an Air Force U-2 pilot, Maj. Richard Heyser, was the first to detect the construction of launching pads for offensive missiles that drove the superpowers on a collision course. It may be that one pilot photographed launching pads for missiles of an unknown range and power while the other produced incontrovertible evidence that the preparations were for potentially devastating Soviet SS-4 attack missiles.
        Whoever took the critical photographs, they wound up on desk of President John F. Kennedy within a day or two, beginning an intensive series of discussions by senior Government officials. The outcome was Kennedy's televised speech to the nation on Oct. 22, 1962, warning that America was on the brink of nuclear war.
        At almost the last minute, Prime Minister Nikita S. Khrushchev accepted a proposal from Kennedy. Khrushchev withdrew the missiles in exchange for an American pledge not to invade Cuba and bring down the Government of Fidel Castro.
        Mr. Barnes, who was born on Aug. 6, 1928, and raised in Beaumont, Tex., took up flying at the age of 16. He paid his way through the University of Texas by flying crop-dusters for six months of the year and attending classes the other half.
        After graduating from college, he joined the Air Force and completed the cadet program in 1952 at Hondo Field, Tex. Soon he was flying F-86 Sabre jets in the Korean War.
        In 1956, Mr. Barnes was recruited by the C.I.A. to enter one of the first groups of civilian contract pilots to fly the new U-2 spy plane. These spider-like jets, which could reach the astounding altitude of 73,000 feet, were thought to be able to operate safely above the range of the best Soviet ground-to-air missiles.
        That belief was shattered in 1960 when a Soviet SA2 missile brought down a U-2, whose pilot, Francis Gary Powers, then faced a show trial in Moscow. The incident led to the cancellation of a summit meeting between Khrushchev and President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        Living at a C.I.A. air base in Ankara, Turkey, at that time, Mr. Barnes was Mr. Powers's next-door neighbor and, he told his son Robert, he flew a diversionary flight the same day Mr. Powers was shot down, in an effort to draw Soviet fighter aircraft away from Mr. Powers.
        On this or another risky mission over the Soviet Union, Mr. Barnes photographed a high-performance Soviet MIG-21 firing a missile at his U-2. But the missile missed, because neither the MIG nor its missile could maneuver effectively in the thin air of extreme altitude.
        ''Barnes had an excellent record,'' said John Shinn, a fellow U-2 pilot who now lives in Lakewood, Colo. ''He flew the U-2 for 33 years. I don't think anyone can beat that.''
        Carmine A. Vito, a retired U-2 pilot who lives in Austin, Tex., recalled that when practicing touch-and-go U-2 landings on an aircraft carrier, an aileron on Mr. Barnes's plane tore loose. ''He could only turn in one direction,'' Mr. Vito said, ''but instead of ditching, he left the scene and took the plane safely back to Edwards.''
        Mr. Barnes was based at Edwards Air Force Base, where the C.I.A. maintained a clandestine fleet of U-2 aircraft, when he began flying surveillance missions over Cuba.
        ''The C.I.A. was interested in some suspicious activity in Cuba at that time,'' Robert Barnes said his father had told him. ''Then, when Dad told our mother that his cameras had determined that the launching pads they were making were for offensive, not defensive, missiles, my mother came out of the house and said there was a threat of nuclear war and we couldn't leave the house. I was only 5 or 6 at the time, but I remember it.''
        In addition to his son Robert, of Chico, Calif., Mr. Barnes is survived by another son, James 3d, of Mountain View, a daughter, Barbara Mayfield of Ukiah, Calif., and two sisters, Nancy Payne and Maryjo Moore, both of Longview, Tex.
      