
        Carlos D. Ramirez, the publisher of the oldest and one of the largest Spanish-language newspapers in the United States, El Diario/La Prensa, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived on City Island in the Bronx.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rosanna Rosado, the editor in chief of the newspaper, which is based in New York City.
        Mr. Ramirez joined El Diario in 1981 as a controller, hired by the Gannett Company, which had just bought the paper. He later became president and publisher, and in 1989 led a partnership that bought the newspaper for $20 million.
        After the purchase, he made the improvement of El Diario's technology, profitability and journalistic standards top priorities, and the paper won several awards as Best Hispanic Daily from the National Hispanic Publishers Association in Washington.
        ''His leadership in the Hispanic press providing a community with insightful and complete coverage of events in Spanish will be deeply missed,'' said Andres Tobar, executive director and chief executive officer of the Hispanic publishers association.
        Ms. Rosado noted that before Mr. Ramirez took over, El Diario/La Prensa was often billed as the oldest Hispanic paper in the country. Now, she said, it is equally if not better known for being on the cutting edge of Hispanic publications and civic journalism.
        She added that Mr. Ramirez's most important achievement may have been changing the color of the newspaper's balance sheet, to black from red.
        ''He turned the paper around and made it profitable,'' Ms. Rosado said.
        The seven-day-a-week paper has a circulation of 68,000, mostly in the New York metropolitan region, according to the publishers association. Only La Opinion in Los Angeles and two Miami-based newspapers, El Nuevo Herald and Diario de las Americas, are larger Spanish-language newspapers.
        Mr. Ramirez was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Aug. 19, 1946. He later moved to Corona, Queens, and graduated from Baruch College with a degree in accounting and finance.
        After Mr. Ramirez took over El Diario/La Prensa, he often said that the purchase was his way of paying tribute to his parents and his heritage and fulfilling a dream to give something back to his community.
        The paper had been bought by Gannett for $9 million near the end of a decadelong decline from its position as the dominant Spanish-language publication in the United States. Its circulation had fallen to less than 40,000 from a high of more than 100,000 in the early 1960's.
        El Diario/La Prensa was created in 1968 by the merger of New York's original Spanish-language newspapers. La Prensa began publication in 1913 to provide news to Spanish immigrants. El Diario appeared in 1948 to serve the city's growing Puerto Rican population.
        In 1995, Mr. Ramirez's partnership, El Diario Associates, became part of the Latin Communications Group in San Jose, Calif., which also owns 18 radio stations. Mr. Ramirez served on the company's board and was president of its print division.
        Mr. Ramirez is survived by his fiancee, Pamela Merlo-Balfour; his parents, Carlos and Maria Ramirez of Corona, Queens; two children, David Ramirez of Manhattan and Christine Ramirez of Long Island; a sister, Magdalena Ramirez of Corona, Queens, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  July 14, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Carlos D. Ramirez, publisher of El Diario/La Prensa in the United States, carried an erroneous byline. It was by Nick Ravo.
      