
        Earl W. Foell, a longtime senior editor of The Christian Science Monitor with a romantic attachment to precision and clarity, died on Saturday at the M.I.T. Medical Department Inpatient Unit in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69 and lived in Boston.
        Mr. Foell (pronounced fell) died after what his wife, Cordelia, would describe only as a brief illness.
        In a career spanning half a century at The Monitor, Mr. Foell rose from copy boy to reporter, foreign correspondent, United Nations bureau chief and, from 1970 to 1983, successively, managing editor, editor and editor in chief.
        From 1994 to 1999, he was chief editorial writer and editor of the editorial page. Last month, he was named contributing editor.
        The Christian Science Monitor, an international daily newspaper published Monday through Friday, is owned by the Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston. Mr. Foell was a member of the church, as are about half of the staff members.
        Founded in 1908 by Mary Baker Eddy, The Monitor was to serve as an antidote to the practices of yellow journalism rampant at the time.
        Each day of the week The Monitor publishes a clearly designated article consistent with the religious beliefs of Mary Baker Eddy, but apart from that the religious society exercises no control.
        In the late 1980's, the publishers ventured into television programming, but the effort failed, and in 1992 the society retrenched its media operations. ''We're beyond that now,'' said Faye Bowers, a spokesperson for The Monitor.
        Its circulation today is about 80,000, down from more than 200,000 in 1988.
        As an editor, Mr. Foell was obsessed with comprehensibility. Writing an appreciation in The Monitor yesterday, a colleague, Roderick Nordell, said: ''As in E. B. White's advice to writers who see readers floundering in a swamp, he was always throwing ropes of clarity. He suffered puns gladly, but no cliche except to turn it on its head. ''
        In 1988, Mr. Foell became editor of a new publication, World Monitor Magazine, a monthly magazine published by the Christian Science Publishing Society. He had high hopes for the magazine which, he said in an opening editorial, would have a global perspective and ''throw a life preserver'' to readers wallowing in ''a vast glut of information.'' The publication was discontinued in May 1993.
        Mr. Foell served several terms as a Pulitzer prize juror, most recently this year. ''I was enormously impressed by the breadth of his knowledge,'' said Seymour Topping, administrator of the prizes.
        Mr. Foell, who was born in Houston on Sept. 21, 1929, graduated from Principia College in Elsah, Ill., in 1949 with a degree in mathematics, and immediately joined The Monitor staff as a copy boy.
        Two years later, he joined the Army but was not sent overseas because his degree in mathematics was considered an essential wartime skill on the homefront. In 1953, he was discharged and returned to The Monitor as a reporter.
        After a couple of years with The Los Angeles Times, he returned to The Monitor as a senior editor.
        In addition to his wife, Cordelia, Mr. Foell is survived by three sons, David V. of Manhattan; Jonathan Kane of Alamo, Calif., and Hayden Treanor of Oakland, Calif; a sister, Ruth C. Hill of Charlotte, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      