
        William Whitelaw, a key aide to his fellow Conservative Margaret Thatcher while she was Britain's Prime Minister, died in his sleep overnight, his family said yesterday.  He was 81 and was long associated with the town of Penrith in northwestern England.
        Lord Whitelaw had been ill for several months, the Press Association, a British news agency, reported without saying where he died and where he resided at the time of his death.
        Known for most of his career as  William Whitelaw, and often called Willie, he was awarded a hereditary peerage in 1983 by Queen Elizabeth II and became the first Viscount Whitelaw of Penrith in Cumbria.
        Prime Minister Tony Blair, a Laborite, said yesterday: ''He was a politician who commanded enormous respect from friend and foe alike.''
        Lord Whitelaw was renowned as a political fixer on Mrs. Thatcher's behalf. Also, as he put it once, ''I'm never an accelerator, but I'm the best brake she has.''
        He was a skilled political tactician and served as deputy leader of the Conservative Party for 16 years. He was sometimes called the last of the Conservative Party's grandees and the person to whom Mrs. Thatcher always turned when a crisis loomed.
        In 1972 and 1973 he was Secretary of State for Northern Ireland under another Conservative Prime Minister, Edward Heath.
        Mr. Whitelaw managed to get a power-sharing pact put in place that was meant to provide Northern Ireland's Roman Catholic minority a role in its governance. But the project crumbled after a general strike by Protestants.
        Despite the earthy aspects of Mr. Whitelaw's work, he had elite credentials: He was born in Edinburgh into a well-known Scottish family and was an alumnus of the boarding school Winchester and of Cambridge University. And he won a high decoration, the Military Cross, for his prowess as an army major commanding tanks in World War II. But he liked to describe himself as a farmer and a landowner.
        Mr. Whitelaw was a Member of Parliament for a constituency including Penrith, from 1955 to 1983 and was prominent in the House of Parliament for a quarter century.
        William Hague, the Conservative Party leader, expressed a widely held view yesterday when he said that Lord Whitelaw was ''one of the towering figures of British politics.''
        Under Mr. Heath he was also leader of the House of Commons. Under Mrs. Thatcher he was Home Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister and, from 1983 to 1988, leader of the governing Conservative Party in the House of Lords.
        In 1988, after a slight stroke, he resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and from his leadership post in the House of Lords. Mrs. Thatcher said at the time that she had a ''great sense of loss'' and ''because your well-being comes first, sadly I have no choice but to accept your resignation.''
        Political analysts said then that the lack of Lord Whitelaw's skill at conciliating and compromising would be a grave loss for the Thatcher Government. And indeed, Mrs. Thatcher was ousted from the prime ministership two years later by an uprising among Conservative members of Parliament.
        Lord Whitelaw's survivors include his wife, the former Cecelia Doriel, whom he married in 1943; and four daughters. There is no heir to the viscountcy.
      