
        Aaron S. Lapin, a St. Louis businessman best known for putting whipped cream in a spray can, a product he named Reddi-wip, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 85.
        Originally, Mr. Lapin, who was known as Bunny -- in French, lapin means rabbit -- was a clothing salesman. But he switched to the food business in the early 1940's, selling Sta-Whip, a wartime substitute for whipping cream made mostly from light cream and vegetable fat. For bakers and other commercial customers who wanted to whip Sta-Whip, he also offered what he called a Fount-Wip, a crude, refillable aerating gun.
        In 1946, when the Crown Cork and Seal Company introduced the first seamless, lined and lithographed aerosol canister -- the Spra-tainer, Mr. Lapin became one of the canister's first customers.
        He put his product in the aerosol cans under the brand name Reddi-wip, initially selling it through milkmen in St. Louis. Distribution quickly expanded throughout the United States and Canada.
        Within five years, Mr. Lapin was worth millions. In 1951, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch called him ''Bunny Lapin, Whipped Cream King.'' Aerosol Age, a trade publication, wrote, ''He bought Cadillacs two at a time and lived in Gloria Swanson's furnished mansion in Hollywood.''
        Reddi-wip, with its iconic red-and-white label, designed in 1954, became a product celebrity and made Mr. Lapin famous, too.
        Reddi-wip earned him a mention in Time magazine last year as one of the century's most influential inventors. Now, one out of every two cans of aerosol topping eaten in the United States each year is Reddi-wip.
        Besides packaging Reddi-wip, the company Mr. Lapin founded, the Clayton Corporation, also made and sold its own valves. It was one of the first companies to put shaving cream into an aerosol can -- Reddi-Shave. But Mr. Lapin decided not to market the product because he did not want to compete against other shaving cream makers who might buy his valves.
        In 1963, Mr. Lapin lost control of the company and his post as president. He also sold his interest in Reddi-wip and started another company, the Bunlap Corporation; Reddi-wip is now manufactured by Beatrice Foods Inc. in Waukesha, Wis., a subsidiary of Conagra.
        The aerosol food products marketed by Bunlap -- Touch 'N Shake, a milkshake, and Touch 'N Spred, a food spread that was, in essence, cinnamon-flavored margarine -- did not take off as Reddi-wip had, and Mr. Lapin lost several million dollars.
        Soon, though, he reacquired the Clayton Corporation and focused on manufacturing and selling various types of valves. The company, through its Convenience Products unit in St. Louis, currently uses its own valve technology for products like Touch 'n Foam, a home-insulating foam.
        Mr. Lapin was born in St. Louis on Jan. 5, 1914. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri at Columbia and attended the Washington University School of Law in St. Louis.
        Mr. Lapin retained lifelong ties to St. Louis, though he also had homes in New York, Los Angeles and Miami. He is survived by a son, Byron Lapin of St. Louis; a daughter, Linda Levine of Los Angeles; two brothers, Zeverly Lapin of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Gene Lapin of St. Louis, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  July 19, 1999, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Aaron S. Lapin, the creator of Reddi-wip, misidentified a survivor in some copies. Carol Lapin is a daughter-in-law, not Mr. Lapin's widow.
        Correction:  July 21, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary on July 14 about Aaron S. Lapin, the creator of Reddi-wip, misidentified a survivor in some copies, and a correction in this space on Monday was erroneous. Carol Lapin is a sister-in-law, not a daughter-in-law and not Mr. Lapin's widow.
      