
        Henry Kimbro, a perennial All-Star center fielder during the 1940's in a Negro leagues career that spanned 17 seasons, died Sunday at his home in Nashville. He was 87.
        An outstanding hitter, speedy on the basepaths and a superb outfielder with a strong arm who played mostly with the Baltimore Elite Giants, Kimbro appeared six times in the showcase event of black baseball, the East-West All-Star Game.
        Statistics for the Negro leagues are sketchy, but Kimbro is believed to have hit over .300 in 10 different seasons. A left-handed leadoff batter who invariably let the first pitch go by, Kimbro was adept at slashing low fastballs to the opposite field.
        Describing himself as ''strong as an ox,'' Kimbro had a stocky build, at 5 feet 8 inches and 175 pounds, with powerful shoulders and arms developed from swinging on ladders in schoolyards as a youngster.
        Kimbro claimed to have hit a ball over the right-field roof at Briggs Stadium in Detroit while touring against the Homestead Grays, but  received no plaudits. As he recalled it: ''The next morning I picked up the newspaper, and you know who hit that ball out of the park? Hoskins, my left fielder. I was really disgusted, but I never did say anything.''
        Kimbro's speed enabled him to make great catches, but scooping up bounding balls was another matter.
        ''I saw my best friend, a shortstop, lose two front teeth when the ball caught a bad hop,'' he remembered. ''Fields in those days had rocks, gravel, all kind of stuff to make a ball kick up in your face. A grounder would come at me, and everyone would hold their breath.''
        By the time the Negro leaguers got to the ball park, they were likely to be worn out by the bus rides through a segregated America.
        ''People wouldn't let you in a restaurant,'' Kimbro recalled, ''so we'd stop and buy cold cuts in the store, put it in the bus, ride that night, get to where we were going the next day.''
        A native of Nashville, Kimbro had a grade-school education, played sandlot baseball, then made his debut in the Negro leagues in 1937. He played in the 1941 All-Star Game while with the New York Black Yankees and then appeared in five consecutive All-Star Games, from 1943 to 1947, as an Elite Giant.
        Kimbro retired after playing with the Birmingham Black Barons in 1953, then owned a taxi company and a gas station in Nashville.
        He is survived by his wife, Erbia; two sons, Phillip, of Nashville, and Larry, of Dayton, Ohio; two daughters, Harriet Hamilton, of Nashville, and Erbia Maria Drew, of Atlanta; two sisters, Martha Jordan and Louis Hancock, of Nashville, six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        A quiet man, Kimbro was regarded by some players as an outcast.
        ''I couldn't express myself the way I wanted to because I didn't go to school,'' he said. ''It just tore me all to pieces. People started calling me 'bad man' and 'evil' and it just followed me all around my whole baseball time.''
        ''A lot of people misunderstood Henry,'' said Stanley Glenn, an outstanding catcher for the Philadelphia Stars. ''He was quiet and he stayed to himself and didn't talk an awful lot. I found him a real fine baseball player.''
        Kimbro was a teammate of the future Brooklyn Dodger stars Roy Campanella, Jim Gilliam and Joe Black while playing for the Elite Giants. But he was too old for the major leagues by the time the color barrier was broken.
        ''I took things as they come, and went on and did the best I could,'' he said. ''We just loved to play.''
      