
        Dr. Ernst Ludwig Wynder, who was the founding president of the American Health Foundation and who posted early warnings of cancers for smokers, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan and in Westport, Conn.
        The cause was cancer of the thyroid, said the foundation, a nonprofit research organization that Dr. Wynder formed in 1969 and guided at his death.
        Under the leadership of Dr. Wynder (pronounced WIN-der), the foundation became one of the country's foremost private research centers for preventive medicine and health maintenance, supported largely by grants and contracts from the National Cancer Institute.
        The foundation has a staff of about 200 researchers, whose specialties include epidemiology, synthetic chemistry, biochemistry, nutrition sciences, experimental oncology, molecular biology and the behavioral sciences.
        Much of the work is carried out in laboratories that Dr. Wynder built on the grounds of the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla. Additional research is done in Manhattan and elsewhere.
        Dr. Wynder himself was credited with furnishing biological proof that tobacco smoke contained a cancer-producing substance. As a researcher associated with Sloan-Kettering, he subsequently linked excessive tobacco use with cancers of the oral cavity, esophagus, larynx, pancreas and bladder.
        Working alone and in collaboration with others, he provided chemical proof of the carcinogenic potential of tobacco smoke and tobacco itself. The work effectively closed the circle of evidence and tied cigarette smoking to an array of cancers.
        Ernst Wynder was born in Herford, Germany, in 1922 and came to the United States in 1938. He graduated from New York University in 1943, the year he received his citizenship, and was a United States Army intelligence officer in World War II.
        In 1950, he earned both a B.S. in medical science and his M.D. at Washington University in St. Louis. While still a student there, he began cancer research with his professor and mentor, Evarts A. Graham.
        In one particular study of 605 men who had developed lung cancer, the two men determined that smoking was a common factor. Of those patients, 97 percent were heavy smokers while only 2 percent were nonsmokers.
        Their work was generally regarded as the first major study to make that link, and the American Medical Association hailed it in 1985 as landmark research.
        Dr. Wynder followed with a paper at Sloan-Kettering in 1953 in which he presented evidence that condensate made from cigarette smoke, painted onto the backs of mice, caused malignant tumors. Four years later, the Surgeon General's office posted its first official warning that excessive smoking may cause lung cancer.
        But the debate continued. As recently as 1994, the heads of the major tobacco companies in the United States swore before a Congressional subcommittee that nicotine was not addictive and might not be a cause of cancer after all.
        In addition to research on tobacco-related cancers, Dr. Wynder led studies comparing the incidence of various types of cancer with demographic and clinical data in foreign countries.
        For instance, the role of poor nutrition in cancers of the upper alimentary tract were highlighted in research that Dr. Wynder conducted in collaboration with Swedish colleagues. They identified iron deficiency as a key factor in Plummer-Vinson syndrome, a painful disorder afflicting some middle-aged women. As a result, an iron supplement was added to flour, ending the sickness in Sweden.
        Dr. Wynder wrote or contributed to more than 700 papers and received many honors in this country and in Europe. He was a principal author of ''Environmental Aspects of Cancer: The Role of Macro and Minor Components of Food'' (1988, Food and Nutrition Press).
        He started his work at the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in 1952 as an assistant researcher and rose to chief of epidemiology. After he created the American Health Foundation, he continued his association with Sloan-Kettering as an associate scientist into the 1980's.
        Dr. Wynder is survived by his wife, Sandra Miller Wynder, and a sister, Lore Levinson of Springfield, N.J.
      