
        Stanley H. Durwood, an entertainment industry executive who is credited with inventing the multiplex movie theater, died Wednesday night at his Kansas City, Mo., home after a two-year illness. He was 78.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, according to a statement from AMC Entertainment, the international movie theater chain Mr. Durwood built from a family business founded in 1920.
        Mr. Durwood's version of how he first got the notion of combining multiple screening rooms into a single theater has entered into Hollywood folklore. The inspiration first hit in the early 1950's, after his family theater chain had acquired the 600-seat Roxy Theater in downtown Kansas City.
        ''I was standing in the lobby the third week after we took over the theater, and we were running an Abbott and Costello picture,'' he recalled in a 1998 profile for Variety. The film was doing so poorly that he had closed the balcony to avoid having to place an usher there. ''I thought, 'If we could just run another so-so picture up in the balcony, we'd double our gross.' ''
        By the late 1950's, with television emptying out the grand movie palaces that had sprung up in the 1930's, he had acquired several giant Kansas City theaters and cut them into several small movie theaters. Then, in 1963, he built the first theater originally designed as a multiplex, in the Ward Parkway shopping center in south Kansas City.
        In 1966, Mr. Durwood's company built its first four-screen complex; a six-screen complex followed in 1969.  And the rest, as they say in Hollywood, was history. The concept ''echoes all around the world,'' a Metro-Golden-Mayer executive told Daily Variety in 1996.
        ''It was like punching a hole in the floor of your living room and oil coming out,'' Mr. Durwood later recalled. ''I figured I had about five years to run with the ball before the big guys would overtake me.''
        His innovations have been widely credited by the motion picture industry with helping to rescue the business from the onslaughts of both television and the videocassette recorder. In 1993, the Foundation of Motion Picture Pioneers honored him as Pioneer of the Year, an honor which had previously gone to such household names as Darryl F. Zanuck and Cecil B. De Mille.
        The multiplex was not Mr. Durwood's only innovative contribution to the moviegoing public: he also is credited with inventing the arm-rest cup holder, whose introduction reflected his determination to make a night at the movies so pleasant it would pull people away from their television sets and into his theaters.
        More recently, he began to see his multiple-screen theater concept as a magnet that could also pull people out of the suburbs and into the center cities. Under his guidance as chief executive, AMC has begun to develop huge theater entertainment centers in once-rundown urban neighborhoods, from Times Square in New York City to ''beautiful downtown Burbank'' in California, once the butt of television talk-show jokes.
        Mr. Durwood was born Aug. 5, 1920, in Kansas City. He was the son of Edward Dubinsky, a silver-haired actor-turned-entrepreneur who built a small chain of about a dozen movie houses and drive-in theaters. The business prospered, as did the family, which later changed its name to Durwood.
        Mr. Durwood was educated at Harvard. After serving as a navigator in the Army Air Forces during World War II, he returned to his birthplace in 1945 and joined the family business. After his father's death in 1960, he began to steer the company toward the pursuit of worldwide growth. In 1968 he changed the company's name to American Multi-Cinema, which has become today's AMC Entertainment.
        Mr. Durwood is survived by his wife, Pamela Yax Durwood of Kansas City; a sister, Marjorie Durwood Grant, also of Kansas City; a brother, Richard Durwood, of Mission Hills, Kan.; and six children, Carol Journagan, of Blue Springs, Mo.; Edward D. Durwood, of Shawnee Mission, Kan.; Thomas A. Durwood, of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; Brian D. Durwood, of Corte Madera, Calif.; Elissa Grodin, of Wilton, Conn., and Peter J. Durwood, of New York City.  He is also survived by 13 grandchildren.
      