
        David Dempsey, a reviewer, biographer, novelist, columnist, fiction and magazine writer who as a Marine Corps combat correspondent during World War II covered four Pacific landings toting a rifle and a typewriter, died on Wednesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 85.
        A prolific author, his talents embraced a variety of topics and mediums ranging from plays to criticism.
        ''He was one of the most versatile writers I ever knew, a consummate craftsman in the way he could size up almost any subject and get to its essence with ease and finesse,'' said Willard R. Espy, an autobiographer and writer on language who has been a friend and colleague of Mr. Dempsey's since the 1940's.
        While he was a Marine Corps sergeant, Mr. Dempsey won the first prize of $500 in a one-act play contest sponsored by the Third Naval District. The play, ''It Ain't Brooklyn,'' about an attack on a troop transport in the Pacific, was begun just before the Allied invasion of the Marshall Islands, but work on it had to be suspended until the action was over. The judges included Moss Hart, John Golden, Rachel Crothers and Russel Crouse, and the play was included in an anthology, ''Best One-Act Plays of 1944.''
        With several co-authors, Mr. Dempsey later produced two books about the Marine Corps, ''U.S. Marines on Iwo Jima'' (1945) and ''Uncommon Valor: Marine Divisions in Action'' (1946).
        Mr. Dempsey's other books range from a novel, ''All That Was Mortal'' (1978) to ''The Way We Die'' (1975), a report on new approaches to the medical, psychological and social problems associated with dying. In 1968 he collaborated with Raymond P. Baldwin, a lawyer, on ''The Triumphs and Trials of Lotta Crabtree,'' the story of a American actress who was a household name toward the end of the 19th century and whose estate of about $4 million was contested by more than 100 people at her death in 1925.
        With collaborators, he also wrote several books on psychology, among them ''Psychology and You,'' with Philip Zimbardo (1978).
        He produced fiction and articles for magazines including the Saturday Evening Post, The New Yorker, Playboy, the Reader's Digest, The New Republic and Harper's. He completed another novel shortly before his death.
        David Knapp Dempsey was born on Jan. 9, 1914, in Pekin, Ill. From 1949 to 1953, he wrote a weekly column, ''In and Out of Books,'' for The New York Times Book Review, to which he later contributed many reviews. From 1954 to 1978, he also wrote articles for The New York Times Magazine, ranging from a profile of the anthropologist Margaret Mead to an article on runaway youths. From 1963 to 1970, he wrote a column on the publishing scene for The Saturday Review.
        He was a former member of the board of directors of PEN, the international organization of writers and editors.
        Mr. Dempsey's wife, Evangeline Semon, died in 1984. He is survived by a son, Ian, of New York City.
      