
        Randolph Guggenheimer, a Manhattan lawyer who helped spearhead the development of a community hospital serving the residents of Harlem, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        When the Hospital for Joint Diseases moved from Madison Avenue and 124th Street in 1979, Mr. Guggenheimer and Eugene L. McCabe, a management consultant, worked together to insure that hospital services would continue in the old building, which was renamed North General Hospital.
        Mr. Guggenheimer had been a board member of the Hospital for Joint Diseases, but he opposed the decision to move because he believed very strongly that Harlem needed a hospital. ''I thought, 'I'm a New Yorker, I was born in New York, I love the city, and there is nothing there but Harlem Hospital, which is insufficient,' '' he said.
        Financial crises threatened North General's existence several times, and at one early point, the National Health and Human Services Employees Union asked its members to continue working despite a missed pay period. Mr. McCabe and Mr. Guggenheimer recruited public officials, philanthropists, bankers, leaders of major medical institutions and local businessmen to take care of the foundering hospital's unpaid bills and to raise both money and standards.
        Both Mr. Guggenheimer, who served as the hospital's only trustee for a time, and Mr. McCabe were tireless in pursuing funds, and helped to engineer a New York State bond issue of $150 million for a new building that would serve the impoverished and medically deprived area. At the time, many small community hospitals, overwhelmed with the unexpected demands of AIDS patients and crack addicts, were being closed.
        ''It didn't make financial sense,'' said Mario M. Cuomo, who as Governor of New York approved many of the grants and loans to build North General. Mr. Cuomo described the hospital's creation as ''a miracle.''
        The state called the rebuilding of the hospital ''the largest public-private construction project in the history of Harlem.'' In 1991, the new 200-bed North General, the only minority-operated hospital in the state, opened its doors at Madison Avenue between 121st and 122d Streets. The nonprofit hospital specializes in treatment for diabetes, cancer and hypertension.
        Several years later, the institution added 300 units of condominium housing for low- and middle-income residents of Harlem.
        Both Mr. Guggenheimer and Mr. McCabe took pride in the fact that the new building was completed for some $15 million less than the amount of their state bond financing.
        ''When we called up the state and asked what we should do with the surplus money, they didn't know what to say,'' Mr. Guggenheimer once recalled. ''It had never happened before. They finally told us to keep it to avoid complications.'' The money was used to build an annex.
        Mr. McCabe was president of the hospital and Mr. Guggenheimer was board chairman, a position he held for some years. He maintained an office in the hospital until his death. An annual award in his name was established by the trustees in 1998, to be given to a member of the hospital staff for excellence in community service. Mr. Guggenheimer received the United Hospital Annual Distinguished Trustee of the Year award and, in 1991, was honored by Mayor David N. Dinkins.
        Mr. McCabe died of cancer at the age of 61 in September 1998,
        In his dedication to Harlem, Mr. Guggenheimer followed the example of his mother, Minna Schafer Guggenheimer, who from 1918 to 1964 produced the annual summer concerts at Lewisohn Stadium on the City College campus. The concert series was a diamond in the New York cultural scene for years, bringing major performers to the neighborhood at admission fees of less than a dollar. Lewisohn Stadium was torn down in 1966, two years after Mrs. Guggenheimer's death.
        Randolph Guggenheimer was born in Manhattan on Nov. 14, 1907. His father, Charles S. Guggenheimer, was a partner in Guggenheimer & Untermyer, a law firm his own father had founded.
        Minna Guggenheimer, a philanthropist known to New Yorkers as Minnie, raised money, engaged artists and handled negotiations for the stadium concerts. She attended most of them, and was famous for her informality and completely uninhibited intermission speeches. On one occasion, a royal guest got lost and wandered into the wings as he was about to be introduced. Mrs. Guggenheimer chased after him, yelling, ''Here, Prince! Here, Prince!''
        Mr. Guggenheimer was educated at the Morristown Preparatory Academy in New Jersey and received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale University in 1928. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1931, joined the family law firm and later became a partner. In 1932 he married the former Elinor Coleman. She has been a member of the City Planning Commission and Commissioner of Consumer Affairs, and was a founder of several national and international women's organizations.
        Mr. Guggenheimer enlisted in the United States Air Force in 1942 and served as executive officer of a fighter squadron in Europe during World War II.
        Through the years, he was active in a number of organizations, including the Jewish Child Care Association and the Mount Sinai Hospital School of Nursing.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Charles and Randolph Jr., and a sister, Sophie Untermeyer, all of Manhattan, three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      