
        Representative George E. Brown Jr., an 18-term California Democrat who used his seniority and influence to promote science in general and space exploration in particular, died early today in Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 79 and lived in San Bernardino, Calif.
        Mr. Brown had heart valve replacement surgery in early May and seemed to recover, returning to work part time only days afterward. But in mid-June he was re-admitted to the hospital with what his office described as a post-operative infection.
        Mr. Brown, who represented California's 42nd Congressional District, which consists of most of San Bernardino and several other communities east of Los Angeles, was chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee from 1991 until the Republicans took control of the House in 1995. He then became the ranking minority member of the renamed Science Committee. He was also the second-ranking Democrat on the Agriculture Committee.
        Mr. Brown was the oldest current member of the House and the longest-serving member of the House or Senate in California history, his office said. In the nearly 35 years that he served in Congress, Mr. Brown was generally liberal on domestic issues. He opposed American military involvement in Southeast Asia and consistently voted against military-spending bills in the last years of the Vietnam War.
        Despite his political longevity, Republicans thought he was vulnerable in recent elections. Mr. Brown was re-elected in 1992, 1994 and 1996 with slim majorities. By far his toughest victory was that of 1996, when his opponent was Linda Wilde, a Superior Court judge and wife of a police officer.
        Ms. Wilde campaigned on a law-and-order platform, accusing the Congressman of being soft on crime and lax on efforts to change the welfare system. He replied that he had worked hard to put more police officers on the streets and fight drug abuse, and he ridiculed her opposition to gun control with a radio advertisement featuring staccato gunfire.
        But Mr. Brown nearly self-destructed while debating his opponent. ''I imagine Linda, because she is a lady, is afraid of math,'' he said.
        Not at all, replied Ms. Wilde, who had taken advanced statistics courses in graduate school. Mr. Brown sheepishly apologized. He won by 996 votes.
        Last year, against a less formidable opponent, he won comfortably.
        Mr. Brown was a friend of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Although he leaned toward unmanned space exploration, he fought efforts to cut money for the space station.
        But he strongly opposed military uses of space. In the early 1980's, he spoke out loudly and often against President Ronald Reagan's ''Star Wars'' plan to build a space-based defense against nuclear weapons.
        Mr. Brown supported creation of the Environmental Protection Agency and development of solar energy and alternative fuels.
        A Quaker who served in the Army in World War II from 1944 to 1946 after initially objecting on religious grounds, Mr. Brown spoke out against the confinement of Japanese-Americans early in the war, when he worked in a Civilian Conservation Corps camp in Oregon.
        Mr. Brown was born in Holtville, Calif., 10 miles north of the Mexican border, and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles. He was a management consultant before winning election in 1954 as a councilman in the Los Angeles suburb of Monterey Park. He became mayor the next year, then won election to the State Assembly.
        He was elected to Congress in 1962 from a district encompassing much of East Los Angeles, and re-elected three times before running against Representative John V. Tunney in the Democratic senatorial primary in 1970. Mr. Brown derided his opponent as the ''lightweight son of the heavyweight champ,'' but he lost.
        Two years later, after the post-census reapportionment created a new Congressional seat close to his childhood home, Mr. Brown was returned to Congress.
        A special election will be held to fill the remaining 18 months of his term.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, Marta; two sons, David and Dale; four stepsons, Samuel, Armando and Miguel McQueen and Howard Cincotta, and numerous grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      