
        The Venerable Dharmawara Mahathera, a high-ranking Buddhist monk who advised kings and prime ministers and established a new life after the age of 90 as a Buddhist leader in the United States, died on June 26 in Stockton, Calif., and his body was cremated as part of a 14-day ceremony that ended on July 10.. He was 110.
        His funeral was attended by hundreds of people, spilling out the doorway of Wat Dharmawararam, his Buddhist temple in Stockton. They included Cambodian and other Southeast Asian laypeople, Western and Asian disciples wearing white, and Cambodian monks, in orange.
        Though his full name was Samdach Vira Dharmawara Bellong Mahathera -- which combines his Buddhist names, his Buddhist rank and his family name of Bellong -- he was always called Bhante, a Cambodian Buddhist honorific. The people who addressed him as such included King Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia, and Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, whose deathbed he attended, in addition to disciples and students throughout the West.
        At 90, Bhante moved to Stockton, where he became a father figure to thousands of Cambodian immigrants and the religious leader of many Vietnamese, Laotians and Westerners, said Diane Batres, coordinator of a crime victims' services agency in the San Joaquin Valley.
        Ten years ago, when a gunman fatally shot five children and himself at a Stockton elementary school, Bhante showed up unsummoned within hours, conducting a ritual intended to dispel the gunman's ghost and to bring peace to the souls of the murdered children.
        Bhante was well along in life before he became a monk, and had served as a judge and a provincial administrator. Born in Phnom Penh into one of Cambodia's wealthiest and most illustrious families -- his grandfather was a judge and adviser to the royal family, and his father was a provincial chief -- he grew up expecting to lead.
        At 40, after obtaining a law degree and serving as a judge, Bhante left his job and pregnant wife to spend a few months resting and meditating in a monastery, part of the Theravada tradition, which emphasizes individual liberation through rigorous discipline. At the end of his stay, he tried to get more time off from work, because ''he said he felt inner peace and tranquillity and satisfaction,'' said Konthal Cheng, his grandson and a Stockton businessman.
        When he was turned down, he quit his job, left his wife and 2-month-old daughter and traveled to Thailand. There he received the highest degree in Buddhist studies, equivalent to a doctorate, and went into the jungle for six years to follow the ancient Thai Forest Tradition, eschewing shelter, meditating day and night at the foot of trees and eating only one light meal a day.
        His wife remarried. Every few years, he went to Cambodia to see his daughter, Montha Long, and years later, brought two grandchildren to live with him in India, where he founded a monastery.
        He is survived by his daughter, of Seattle; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
        In his later years, he was invited to speak and teach in Japan, England and the United States.
        ''He translated Buddhist precepts into simple formulas -- all one had to do to be happy,'' said Patricia Busher, principal of Cleveland Elementary School, where the shooting took place. But his presence was his most powerful teaching, Ms. Busher said.
        He lived simply, sharing a small house with his monks and subsisting mainly on raw fruits and vegetables, though he occasionally splurged.
        ''He served Neapolitan ice cream and fortune cookies at his birthday party,'' Ms. Busher recalled. ''And he loved Coca-Cola.''
      