
        Edward Dmytryk, the versatile director whose best films were taut, realistic and at times explosive and who, as one of the ''Hollywood 10,'' was jailed for refusing to tell a Congressional committee whether he was a Communist, died on Thursday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 90 and the only member of the 10 who recanted and named names.
        In 1947, when the House Un-American Activities Committee held hearings on subversive activities in the entertainment industry, Mr. Dmytryk had been nominated for an Academy Award as best director for ''Crossfire,'' a powerful film about anti-Semitism that he made with Adrian Scott, another member of the Hollywood 10, and which starred Robert Ryan, Robert Mitchum and Robert Young.
        After a long apprenticeship in Hollywood, Mr. Dmytryk was regarded as one of the industry's bright new directors. His early films included ''Hitler's Children'' and ''Behind the Rising Sun,'' graphic 1943 anti-Fascist melodramas; ''Murder, My Sweet'' (1944) and ''Cornered'' (1945), thrillers that established a macho image for the actor Dick Powell and won him a new career; ''Back to Bataan,'' with John Wayne as tough as ever, and ''Till the End of Time,'' a sympathetic drama of returning soldiers.
        What many of these films shared  was a faith in common people, dedication to team efforts and respect for traditional values, often focusing on a character's faith and commitment.
        But all this ended in 1947 when Mr. Dmytryk was one of the group of screenwriters, directors and producers who were cited for contempt of Congress by the House Un-American Activities Committee for refusing to acknowledge a Communist affiliation.
        For his silence, the director paid a $1,000 fine and served four and a half months at a Federal prison camp in Mill Point, W. Va.
        In his 1978 autobiography, ''It's a Hell of a Life, but Not a Bad Living,'' published by Times Books, Mr. Dmytryk said he was blacklisted after his release from prison and unable to work. He said he hunted for ways to  break the blacklist and concluded:
        ''I had to purge myself: Hollywood's right wing had to have its pound of flesh. They were riding high now, and there was no way they were going to let anyone off the hook. It was an eye-for-eye attitude, but who could blame them?''
        In 1951 he reappeared before the panel, acknowledged that he had been a Communist Party member from 1944 to 1945 and confirmed other witnesses' party membership.
        In his autobiography, Mr. Dmytryk said he did not feel guilty about  his reversal, unlike some other reluctant witnesses who eventually cooperated.
        ''I had long been convinced,'' he said, ''that the fight of the Hollywood 10 was political, that the battle for freedom of thought, in which I believed completely, had been twisted into a conspiracy of silence. I was being forced to sacrifice my family and my career in defense of the Communist Party, from which I had long been separated and which I had grown to dislike and distrust.''
        ''My decision was made easier,'' he continued, because ''my experience as an actual party member had been rather meager, and I couldn't name anybody who hadn't already been identified.'' He expressed pride that ''there was no new or startling information'' in his testimony, which ended his blacklisting by the American film industry.
        ''For the first time in three and a half years,'' he wrote, ''I felt free of guilt.''
        After he recanted, Mr. Dmytryk found work. Stanley Kramer assigned him to direct several low-budget films, among them ''The Sniper'' and ''The Juggler,'' with Kirk Douglas as a concentration camp survivor in Israel.
        He returned to the big leagues in 1954 when he directed ''The Caine Mutiny'' with Humphrey Bogart. The film's success again put Mr. Dmytryk in demand. In the mid-1950's  and 60's he directed major films including ''The Broken Lance'' with Spencer Tracy; Graham Greene's ''The End of the Affair'' with Deborah Kerr; ''The Left Hand of God'' with Bogart and Gene Tierney; ''Soldier of Fortune'' with Clark Gable; ''Raintree County'' with Elizabeth Taylor and Montgomery Clift, and ''The Young Lions'' with Marlon Brando, Clift, and Dean Martin.
        He continued to make films with big stars until his career tailed off in the 70's. These movies included ''Warlock'' with Richard Widmark and Henry Fonda; ''A Walk on the Wild Side'' with Jane Fonda, Barbara Stanwyck, Laurence Harvey and a cat who strolled through Saul Bass's famous credits; ''The Carpetbaggers'' with George Peppard and Alan Ladd; ''Where Love Has Gone,'' with Bette Davis and Susan Hayward, and  ''Bluebeard'' with Richard Burton.
        Edward Dmytryk was born on Sept. 4, 1908, in Grand Forks, British Columbia, the second of four sons of Michael Dmytryk, a Ukrainian immigrant. His father, who was variously a truck driver, smelter worker and motorman, and a severe disciplinarian at home, moved his family to San Francisco and then to Los Angeles.
        Edward began selling and delivering newspapers at age 6 and left his punitive home at 14, becoming a messenger at Paramount Pictures for $6 a week while attending Hollywood High School. He rose to projectionist at 19, film editor at 21 and director (and an American citizen) at 31. He studied at the California Institute of Technology for a year, but dropped out to learn about movie making.
        He said his most valuable training was tightening scripts for maximum effect and minimum dialogue. ''When we rehearse and film each scene,'' he wrote, ''further cuts are almost always in order. Later, in the cutting room, I find I can slice still more. If I see the picture again months later, I kick myself for leaving some scenes too long.''
        As for directing, he believed ''the hand on the tiller'' should be ''gentle, but firm -- and undivided.'' He said a director should also be a film's producer. The dual assignment, he said, ''eliminates the need for compromise,'' which he deplored as ''the single most difficult problem facing any creator.''
        In later years Mr. Dmytryk taught film theory and production, first at the University of Texas in Austin, then at the University of Southern California. He also wrote several books on filmmaking, among them ''On Screen Directing.''
        Mr. Dmytryk's first marriage, to  Madeleine Robinson, ended in divorce in 1948. The director is survived by his wife, Jean Porter, an actress whom he married in 1948; two sons, Richard and Michael; two daughters, Victoria and Rebecca, and three grandchildren.
        Like Elia Kazan, the director who received an honorary Oscar in March amid controversy because he named names to the House committee, Mr. Dmytryk was never forgiven in some Hollywood quarters. In 1988, the Barcelona Film Festival organized a symposium about the Hollywood blacklist and invited Mr. Dmytryk and others who had been blacklisted in the 1950's but who never recanted, among them the directors Jules Dassin and John Berry, both identified as Communists by Mr. Dmytryk, and the screenwriter Walter Bernstein.
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Dassin, Mr. Berry and Mr. Bernstein refused to share the platform with Mr. Dmytryk. He was forced to sit in the audience, hearing himself denounced as ''Judas'' and an ''informer.''
        After the festival, Mr. Dmytryk told The Associated Press, ''When I die, I know the obits will first read 'one of Hollywood's Unfriendly 10,' not 'director of ''The Caine Mutiny,'' ''The Young Lions,'' ''Raintree County'' and other films.' ''
      