
        Stanley Tretick, the Look magazine photographer known for his intimate pictures of the Kennedy White House, including one of John F. Kennedy Jr. as a toddler playing under his father's desk, died yesterday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 77.
        The cause was pneumonia, said the author Kitty Kelley, a close friend. Ms. Kelley added that Mr. Tretick had been incapacitated for the last four years after several strokes.
        ''I told him what happened over the weekend, but I'm not sure he was aware of it,'' Ms. Kelley said of the presumed death of Mr. Kennedy in a plane crash off Martha's Vineyard, Mass. ''I told him his photographs were all over television.''
        Ms. Kelley recalled how Mr. Tretick had wanted to put together a series of photographs of President Kennedy and his son, but Jacqueline Kennedy was against the idea at first, not wanting her husband to use the pictures for political purposes.
        Later, in October 1963, when the First Lady left the White House on a trip, Mr. Tretick was allowed to take candid pictures of father and son, including the desk picture, which Ms. Kelley said he knew he would be remembered for.
        Not long ago, Ms. Kelley said, she asked the young Kennedy to sign the original photograph, and he did.
        Mr. Tretick also took many photographs of the Kennedy Administration at work, including a well-known lineup of President Kennedy with his  military advisers at the time of the Cuban missile crisis.
        Aaron Stanley Tretick was born on July 21, 1921, in Baltimore, and grew up in Washington. He graduated from Central High School in Washington and served in the Marines in World War II as a staff sergeant and photographer.
        Afterward, he worked for the Acme News Service and then United Press International, covering the Korean War, the White House, Capitol Hill and Presidential campaigns and elections from 1952 to 1960, including that of John F. Kennedy.
        Mr. Tretick won numerous awards for his work in the White House photographers' competition. He was referred to as ''President Kennedy's photographic Boswell'' in the final publication of Look.
        Later, Mr. Tretick became close to Senator Robert F. Kennedy and covered his Presidential campaign in 1968.
        He rebuffed an approach by President Jimmy Carter to become Mr. Carter's personal photographer.
        ''I didn't feel he wanted an intimate, personal photographer around him,'' Mr. Tretick said in an interview with The New York Times.
        After Look folded, Mr. Tretick worked as a freelance photographer and for People magazine until he retired after a stroke in 1995.
        His work appeared in several books, including ''A Very Special President,'' with Laura Berquist (McGraw Hill, 1965), ''They Could Not Trust the King: Nixon, Watergate and the American People,'' with William V. Shannon (Collier Books, 1974) and ''A Portrait of All the President's Men: The Story Behind the Filming of the Most Devastating Detective Story of the Century,'' with Jack Hirshberg (Warner Books, 1976).
        Mr. Tretick is survived by a brother, Gordon Tretick of New Milford, N.J.
        Before Mr. Kennedy's election, Mr. Tretick was best known for an article he wrote for The Saturday Evening Post in 1958 called ''I Shoot the Big Shots.''
        In the article, he discussed his coverage of the Senate rackets committee hearings, in which he had so angered a gangster named Johnny Dio that Mr. Tretick had to duck when Mr. Dio swung at him. He got the picture, but complained, ''The worst part of being hit while on an assignment is that some other photographer invariably scoops you with a sensational shot of you getting belted.''
      