
        Hugh Fish, a British environmental engineer whose love of pristine rivers helped clean up the Thames -- clean enough for salmon to thrive after 150 years -- died on May 26 in Wallingford, Oxfordshire. He was 76.
        Working for the Thames Conservancy and the fledgling Thames Water Authority in the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Fish played a central role in restoring the river's quality. Its putridity had not merely killed all fish life but was eating away at boat hulls by the time real pollution controls were first applied in the mid-1950's.
        Government pressure on industry and local authorities made the river fit just for eel around the mid-60's. Mr. Fish, who had worked as a chemist for various river boards, was named chief purification officer of the Conservancy in 1969 and director of scientific services when that body became the Water Authority in 1974.
        The relentless campaign he led brought back some 80 species of fish. But he was determined to make the water pure enough for salmon, which had not been spotted there for 150 years. A harbinger came in 1974 when a single live salmon turned up in the Thames estuary.
        That year the Authority released 5,000 salmon fry into a tiny tributary stream, hoping that some would find their way back upstream as adults to spawn. Mr. Fish forecast the first catch in the Thames in 1979, but it took until 1985 for the first angler to hook a salmon in the river and claim the $:250 prize the authority had posted.
        Born in Oulton, Yorkshire, Hugh Fish was studying chemistry at Leeds University when war broke out. He served on destroyer duty with the Royal Navy, completed his degree at Leeds and took his first job with a river board in 1949.
        He was the chief executive of the Thames River Authority from 1978 to 1984, when he became chairman of Britain's National Environment Research Council, serving four years. After that he worked as an independent consultant on environmental management.
        He was knighted in 1989.
        His survivors include his wife of 56 years, Nancy Asquith Fish, a son, and a daughter.
        A burly man, Sir Hugh said he never minded people smiling when they heard of his work with the water authority. ''At least they never forget my name,'' he said.
      