
        David Manners, who starred in Hollywood films in the 1930's and played the hero in Tod Browning's 1931 ''Dracula'' and other classic horror movies of that day, died on Dec. 23 in the health center of a retirement community in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 98.
        Almost a decade ago, Mr. Manners modestly told a film historian that horror films were his ''only claim to movie fame.'' But horror films were only a fraction of the more than three dozen movies in which he appeared, often in romantic leads.
        In Browning's ''Dracula,'' which starred Bela Lugosi in the title role, Mr. Manners played the role of John Harker, the sturdy fiance of the heroine, Mina, played by Helen Chandler.
        In the 1932 film ''The Mummy,''  which starred Boris Karloff in the title role, Mr. Manners and Zita Johann portrayed a terrified pair of lovers. And in Edgar G. Ullmer's  ''Black Cat'' (1934), Mr. Manners, playing a young American novelist, got third billing after Karloff, as the leader of a cult of devil worshipers, and Lugosi, as the husband of one of Karloff's victims.
        Mr. Manners played the fiance of Katharine Hepburn in her film debut in ''A Bill of Divorcement'' (1932). His other partners in on-screen romances included Barbara Stanwyck and Loretta Young.
        Mr. Manners was born far from Arabia or filmland, in Halifax, Nova Scotia, the son of George M. Acklom and the former Lillian Manners. His original name was Rauff de Ryther Duan Acklom.
        He attended the University of Toronto. After training in acting at the Hart House Theater in Toronto, he made his stage debut there in 1924 in the title role of Euripides's ''Hippolytus.'' He also performed in plays in New York and Chicago before moving on to Hollywood and in the 1940's  made further appearances on the New York stage.
        Despite his Hollywood successes, a friend recalled, Mr. Manners came to dislike the pressures and pretensions of the film world and left Hollywood for a ranch in the Mojave Desert of Southern California.
        An early marriage ended in divorce. He leaves no immediate survivors.
      