
        Claudio Rodriguez, whose five books of verse since the 1950's were enough to convince peers that he was among the best Spanish poets of the century, died on Thursday in a Madrid hospital. He was 65.
        The cause was colon cancer, the Spanish press reported.
        Mr. Rodriguez had a lyrical style filled with symbolism. His first book of poetry, in 1953, ''Don de la Ebriedad'' (''Master of Drunkenness''), was among his most widely cited. The poem begins:
        Clarity always comes from Heaven
        It is a 'Don'
        It is not found among things
        But comes from far above
        Mariano Rajoy, Spain's Culture Minister, said of Mr. Rodriguez: ''The greatness of his poetry combined simplicity and clarity, a religious and transcendent background that comes from our best poetic tradition and attention to language and rhythm.''
        Mr. Rodriguez was born on Jan. 30, 1934, in Zamora, a northwestern provincial capital. He began writing as a teen-ager during a period when he walked extensively through the fields of his native Old Castile. He published his first poem in 1949 in a local newspaper, and in 1951 began composing ''Master of Drunkenness.''
        He sent the manuscript to Vicente Aleixandre, who later won the Nobel Prize for Literature (in 1977), and they became close friends. Mr. Aleixandre, 30 years his senior, helped Mr. Rodriguez go to England.
        From 1958 to 1964, Mr. Rodriguez taught Spanish literature at English universities, first at Nottingham and later at Cambridge. While there, he wrote his third book, ''Alianza y Condena'' (''Alliance and Sentence''). It was published in 1965 in Spain, where he had returned to teach in Madrid.
        Mr. Rodriguez was considered a member of the Generation of 1950, an informal grouping of writers who began to gain a following in that decade.
        In 1983, he won Spain's National Prize for Poetry for ''Desde Mis Poemas'' (''From My Poems''), a compilation of his work to date. In 1987, he was elected to a seat in the Spanish Royal Academy, the official arbiter of the Spanish language. In 1993, he won the Prince of Asturias Prize for Letters, named for Spain's Crown Prince.
        Mr. Rodriguez is survived by his wife, Clara.
        Fellow writers said Mr. Rodriguez helped to revitalize the country's poetry after the Spanish Civil War. He was also said to be firmly rooted in European modernity. Some peers called him a ''mystic,'' a label he did not like.
        ''Nowadays, everyone is called a mystic,'' he once said. ''But the union with the Divine is another story.''
        His last book of poetry, ''Casi una Leyenda'' (''Nearly a Legend''), was published in 1991. In a section devoted to his late sister, he wrote:
        You didn't know that death is beautiful
        And it was made in your body
        You didn't know that the family,
        Noble streets were a lie.
        Mr. Rodriguez had recently been preparing a new work, ''Aventura'' (''Adventure''), a poem about old age and death.
      