
        William X. Scheinman, a self-taught Wall Street analyst who became an enthusiastic supporter of the independence movement in Africa, died on May 24 at his home in Reno, Nev., of kidney failure. He was 72.
        His ashes were taken to Africa in mid-June, according to his son, William, and buried on a small island in Lake Victoria next to the grave of Tom Mboya, the Kenyan political figure who was shot to death on a Nairobi sidewalk in 1969.
        Mr. Scheinman, who left college after two years and started a prosperous aircraft-parts company, Arnav Aircraft Associates Inc., in Little Ferry, N.J., had befriended Mr. Mboya on a trip to Africa in 1956. A few years later, when Mr. Mboya visited the United States, Mr. Scheinman introduced him to President John F. Kennedy and other American political figures. Mr. Scheinman, who served on the executive board of the American Committee on Africa, established the African American Students Foundation and worked with Mr. Mboya to bring hundreds of Kenyans to study at American universities from 1957 to 1961.
        Mr. Scheinman turned to Wall Street in the mid-60's. He began by reading about investing, then got a license as a broker. Soon he began working at brokerage houses, first Furman Selz Mager Dietz & Birney and then Arthur Wiesenberger & Company, as a researcher specializing in technical analysis, which focuses on stock prices over time, volume of trading and other market patterns.
        He started a newsletter called Timings that attracted a following among institutional investors and was honored by his colleagues as one of the 18 charter members of the Market Technicians Association, now the main professional organization for technical analysts, when it was founded in 1973.
        In 1970, Mr. Scheinman published a book, ''Why Most Investors Are Mostly Wrong Most of the Time,'' that was reissued in paperback in 1991 and is still available in bookstores.
        Mr. Scheinman was acclaimed for accurately predicting the deep bear market of 1973-74, but his popularity cooled when he was slow to recognize the start of the next upswing. He moved to Reno in 1975 and continued to publish his newsletter and advise institutional investors until his death.
        His involvement with Africa continued, as well. In January, for example, he attended the wedding in Kampala, Uganda, of a daughter of Mr. Mboya, who had been best man at Mr. Scheinman's second marriage.
        Mr. Scheinman, who was the pilot of an amphibious Navy landing craft in the Pacific during World War II, told friends that he had once brought down an attacking Japanese fighter plane with a burst of machine gun fire.
        After his try at college, his son said, he ''bummed around'' for a couple of years with professional poker players in the Midwest. Then he came to New York, drifted into the jazz world of Harlem and became a publicist for Count Basie and other musicians before becoming a salesman for an aircraft-parts company and then starting his own company.
        Mr. Scheinman, who was living alone after four marriages ended in divorce, is survived by his mother, Rosalind Scheinman of Manhattan; Juliette Fortunato of Manhattan, his first wife and the mother of his only child, William Scheinman Jr., of Belmont, Calif., and a brother, Robert of Scottsdale, Ariz.
        Though Mr. Scheinman spent years on Wall Street he never looked the part, eschewing pinstripes for turtlenecks and cowboy boots and, in later life, drawing his graying hair back into a ponytail.
        ''He was unconventional,'' said Peter Griffiths, an investment manager in Denver, ''in the way he dressed and the way he approached the market.''
      