
        William Targ, a widely admired book editor and former editor in chief of G. P. Putnam's Sons who agreed to publish Mario Puzo's novel ''The Godfather'' sight unseen, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Considered among his peers to be one of the greatest post-World War II editors, Mr. Targ, who referred to himself as ''antediluvian,'' was noted for his unfailing commitment to literary work in an age of commercialism and to the dying art of bookmanship.
        He retired in 1978 from Putnam, where he began as senior editor in 1964 before moving up to editor in chief. In addition to Mr. Puzo, his roster of authors included Simone de Beauvoir, Ashley Montagu and Lin Yutang. In 1968 Mr. Targ bought Mr. Puzo's novel for a $5,000 advance on the strength of an oral presentation after two other publishers had turned down the work. ''The Godfather'' turned out to be the most profitable single novel ever published by Putnam's and the paperback rights were sold for more than $400,000. The novel also led to the series of ''Godfather'' films by the director Francis Ford Coppola.
        While saying that he was proud to be known as a commercial editor, Mr. Targ lamented that the curse of his industry was what he saw as overproduction.
        ''The trouble with the publishing business is that too many people who have half a mind to write a book do so,'' he said.
        From an early age, Mr. Targ was fueled by a passion for books. He was born in Chicago to parents who emigrated from Russia. Mr. Targ, whose name was originally William Torgownik, dropped out of high school after losing interest in all but two courses, English and print shop, where he learned to set type by hand. A precocious reader, he bought scores of books secondhand and stored them in produce boxes, refusing to borrow books from the local library.
        The city of Chicago was his school, he said. At 18, he took a job as an office boy at Macmillan, where he read galleys and crossed paths with writers like Richard Wright, Saul Bellow, Nelson Algren, Carl Sandburg and Studs Terkel.
        At 22 he opened his own bookshop and began to amass what would eventually become a collection of  thousands of rare books and first editions.
        In 1942 he moved to Cleveland to become editor for the World Publishing Company's Tower and Forum unit, which produced reprint editions bound in hard covers that sold for 49 cents. The company sent him to New York in 1945 to begin a trade-book division. He rose to the post of editor in chief before moving to Putnam in 1964.
        After his retirement from Putnam, he founded Targ Editions, a one-man operation that published poetry, criticism and short fiction, beautifully printed, by letter press, and bound, in limited editions signed by the authors. He went on to publish some 250 editions, the first of which was ''Nature's First Green,'' a short work by Henry Roth, who often credited Mr. Targ with ending a writer's block that lasted for more than 40 years.
        He is survived by his wife, Roslyn, of Manhattan; a son, Russell, of Palo Alto, Calif.; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        In his memoirs, ''Indecent Pleasures'' (1975), Mr. Targ wrote about bookmanship, which he said lay at the heart of publishing.
        ''Binding, paper, type arrangement, dust jacket: these elements are not accidents in the making of a book,'' he wrote. ''Each calls for expertise and taste.
        ''I must know how the book feels in the hand, how it rests on the shelf, in the company of other books,'' he added. ''Does it have a real life of its own, a character and personality, making it unlike any other book? Ah! is it a book one can love and cherish? And will the author be pleased with it?
        ''Some publishers will respond to the above with a shrug. Who really cares about the typographic esthetics? Well, someone should, and that someone should be the editor and the chief executive officer.''
      