
        Larry Kent, who as the first president of NFL Properties, the licensing and marketing arm of the National Football League, lived to see it grow from gross revenue of $36,647 in 1963 to $3 billion in 1998, died July 14 in his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86.
        Before Pete Rozelle became the league's commissioner in 1960, the professional teams sold their program advertising individually, and no one sold clothing or other items with league or team insignia. Wellington Mara, the president and co-owner of the Giants, said Rozelle had come up with the idea of centralized sales.
        ''It was not to promote a moneymaker,'' Mara said, ''but to further the image of the league.''
        Rozelle hired Kent to run NFL Properties. Kent had been the manager of marketing for Roy Rogers and Dale Evans, spending 12 years on the road with Roy, Dale, Trigger and their singing group, the Sons of the Pioneers.
        Kent conceived the idea of installing Roy Rogers Corrals in major department stores around the country, selling children's cowboy clothes and toys. He applied the same ideas to NFL Properties, although it took time before jackets and T-shirts were sold.
        Lou Spadea, a former president of the San Francisco 49ers and now president of the Bay Area Sports Hall of Fame, recalled those days.
        ''We formed NFL Properties to sell program advertising,'' he said. ''We hired Larry Kent as the first president and he did a fine job getting the league and team logos on T-shirts, lunch pails, anything. His goal was to get a page of N.F.L. items in the Sears, Roebuck catalogue, and he did that.
        ''That was back in the days when no one put anything on a T-shirt. I think our equipment man was the first to put something on them. Our players were stealing them, so he stenciled ''49ers'' on them so it would show through their shirts. One guy got around that by wearing the T-shirt backward, so our equipment guy stenciled both front and back.''
        From that beginning sprang NFL Properties, which charges a licensing fee of less than 10 percent of an item's sale price. The profits are shared equally by the 30 teams. The first year, each of the 14 teams earned $2,600. Last year, each of the 30 teams earned more than $5 million from centralized licensing and marketing.
        Kent was born and raised in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C.L.A. He retired from NFL Properties in 1975.
        His first wife died in 1979. He is survived by his second wife, Lisa; a daughter from his first marriage, Judy Carney of Darien, Conn.; two grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      