
        Alan J. Karcher, the fiery liberal Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly for two terms in the 1980's and a longtime Democratic member of the Assembly from Middlesex County, N.J., died on Monday at the home of a friend in Neptune, N.J. He was 56.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, said his son-in-law, Arthur Cohen of Chevy Chase, Md. Mr. Karcher, a former chain-smoker, had fought the disease for two years.
        Political associates and opponents alike credited him with strengthening the role of the New Jersey Legislature in both partnership and contention with the executive branch of the state government.
        Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican, ordered state government flags flown at half-staff from yesterday through Friday, saying that ''he was a worthy and capable adversary who truly embodied the spirit of the loyal opposition.''
        ''He was the architect of the modern legislature in New Jersey,'' said Lou Rainone, an aide to Mr. Karcher in the Assembly who later worked with him as a partner in the Sayreville law firm now named Karcher & Rainone. ''He made the Legislature an equal branch of government with the Governor's administration.''
        Mr. Karcher started his political career while still in law school, serving in 1966 as secretary to the president of the New Jersey Senate. The next year, he became the assistant supervisor of bills. From 1967 through 1969, he also was on the staff of Gov. Richard J. Hughes.
        From 1973 to 1990, he represented the 19th Legislative District in the Assembly, which includes New Brunswick, and became an assistant majority leader in his third term as an Assemblyman. He became majority leader in 1980, and after the 1981 elections, he was elected Speaker. He was re-elected in 1983.
        Mr. Karcher's rise in the Legislature in Trenton came just as a popular Republican, Thomas H. Kean, became Governor. Mr. Karcher and Governor Kean negotiated an increase in the state sales tax.
        But in 1985, when Mr. Kean ran for re-election, he made Mr. Karcher, as the Speaker, and what the Governor called ''Democrat obstructionism'' a main campaign issue. That criticism helped the Republicans win a majority in the Assembly; Chuck Hardwick succeeded Mr. Karcher -- the embodiment of a supporter of big government and proud of it -- as Speaker.
        In 1989, Mr. Karcher failed in a bid for his party's nomination for governor. In 1984 and 1988, he was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention. From 1985 to 1988, he was on the Democratic National Committee.
        After leaving political office in 1990, he accepted an appointment as a fellow in residence at the Institute of Politics at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. He later moved from Middlesex County to Princeton, N.J., in Mercer County. He spent the last two months on the Jersey Shore because he wanted to live out his life near the beach.
        His last political achievement came in 1998, when he helped engineer a political upset: United States Representative Rush Holt's victory over the favored incumbent, Mike Pappas, in the Congressional race in the 12th District.
        Mr. Holt noted yesterday how Mr. Karcher rebuilt Mercer County's Democratic Party in recent years, taking on the role of county chairman and getting involved with the small details of freeholder elections.
        Mr. Karcher was born in New Brunswick and grew up in Sayreville. He received a bachelor's degree and a law degree from Rutgers University. He also had a master's degree from the New School.
        As a lawyer, Mr. Karcher had an extensive practice in municipal law, representing several cities and towns. He was also an appellate counsel, concentrating on constitutional issues, on behalf of Mary Beth Whitehead-Gould in the ''Baby M'' surrogate-mother case in 1987, successfully arguing before the New Jersey Supreme Court.
        He wrote two books, ''Lotteries'' (Transactions Publications, 1989) and ''New Jersey's Multiple Municipal Madness'' (Rutgers University Press, 1998), which examined the crazy quilt of towns in the state. Mr. Karcher was a proponent of abandoning home rule and merging some of the state's 566 municipalities.
        Mr. Karcher was part of a political family. In 1930, his father, Joseph, was elected to the Assembly, as his great-uncle, John J. Quaid, had been in 1898.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; two daughters, Elizabeth, of Chevy Chase and Ellen, of Marlboro, N.J.; a son, Timothy, of Princeton, and five grandchildren.
      