
        Denis de Coteau, a conductor of wide experience who was the San Francisco Ballet's longtime music director, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 70 and lived in South San Francisco.
        The cause was cancer, the ballet  company said.
        Mr. de Coteau joined the San Francisco Ballet as assistant conductor in 1968 and served as the troupe's music director and conductor from 1974 to 1998.
        Last year he became music director emeritus in recognition of his leadership of the ballet orchestra, considered one of the finest in the country. Since his last performance in August, he had continued to act as adviser on the music repertory to the company's artistic director, Helgi Tomasson.
        Frequently invited to conduct symphony orchestras in the United States and abroad, Mr. de Coteau was also known for his work with  youth orchestras. He conducted the Oakland Youth Symphony from 1970 to 1979, when the group became the first American youth orchestra to win bronze and silver medals at the Herbert von Karajan Competition in Berlin. Mr. de Coteau also conducted youth orchestras in Germany, Australia and Japan.
        Born in New York, Mr. de Coteau earned a bachelor's and a master's  degree in music from New York University and a doctorate from Stanford University. Among his awards were the Pierre Monteux Conducting Prize (1969), the Ascap Award for Adventuresome Programming (1976) and commendations from the California Legislature and the San Francisco City Council.
        In 1985 Mr. de Coteau stepped in for the ailing Edo de Waart to conduct the San Francisco Symphony and subsequently conducted the symphony in a series of concerts that year. He served as associate conductor on its national tour in 1986.
        Mr. de Coteau was conductor emeritus and a faculty member at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music.
        Among the orchestras with which he appeared as guest conductor were the BBC Scottish Symphony, the Tokyo City Philharmonic Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony, the Seattle Symphony and several ballet orchestras. He was music director of the Flagstaff Festival of the Arts in Arizona from 1977 to 1983.
        Mr. de Coteau is survived by his wife, Lee Ming; three daughters, Michele, Nadine and Nicole, all of the Bay Area; his twin brother, Norbert,  of New York; a stepson, Kevin Chou of San Diego, and a stepdaughter, Yueh Chou of Los Angeles.
      