
        Walter Jackson Bate, an emeritus professor of English at Harvard University who won Pulitzer Prizes for biographies of John Keats and Samuel Johnson, died on Monday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 81 and had homes in Cambridge, Mass., and Amherst, N.H.
        Mr. Bate was awarded his first Pulitzer Prize in 1964 for ''John Keats,'' a biography of the charismatic 18th-century English poet who died of tuberculosis at the age of 25. The book was Mr. Bate's third work on Keats, whom he described as ''the best example of a really great writer of the last two centuries.''
        ''He's a man who pulled himself by his bootstraps,'' he said, adding that Keats's life was a fascinating study of the process of education.
        Praising ''John Keats'' in The New York Times Book Review, Howard Moss wrote: ''The really remarkable thing about this work is Mr. Bate's complete understanding of Keats's development as a man, thinker, poet and technician. He has the uncommon ability to hold these four difficult facets -- each requiring, in turn, the specialized knowledge of the psychologist, the philosopher, the critic and the prosodist -- in genuine and simultaneous relation to each other. . . . What we have in this book, in short, is one of those rare and monumental studies in which a lifetime's devotion to an artist's life and work is finally distilled.''
        Mr. Bate received a second Pulitzer in 1978 for his biography of Johnson, England's contradictory man of letters on whom he had lectured at Harvard in a highly popular course for more than 30 years. The book went on to win the National Book Award and the National Book Critics Circle Award; it appeared on nearly every year-end list of the best books of 1977. It also won wide public attention for Mr. Bate and his work.
        Comparing Mr. Bate's biography to James Boswell's definitive 1791 work, ''Life of Johnson, LL.D.,'' Thomas R. Edwards wrote in The Times, ''Of this great work it may be justly said, as its subject said of 'Paradise Lost,' that it is not the greatest Life of Johnson only because it is not the first.''
        Born in Mankato, Minn., Mr. Bate earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees at Harvard, where he taught from 1946 until his retirement in 1986. His lecture series ''The Age of Johnson'' and ''The Function and Criticism of Literature'' routinely drew close to 400 students, many of whom were ''often too interested to take notes,'' a Harvard publication once noted.
        He is survived by a sister, Jane Dear of Raleigh, N.C.
        In the 25th-anniversary report of his graduating class, Mr. Bate described himself as devoted almost entirely to writing, research and teaching.
        ''Like others in that kind of situation where one's recreation is the same as one's work and where so much of one's work consists of writing,'' he wrote, ''I find myself unable ever to say what I'm doing without falling into a long rambling summary of everything I've been trying to talk or write about, long and rambling because one starts to use the opportunity to qualify or try to improve on what one's already said. That's the occupational disease.''
        Correction:  August 7, 1999, Saturday  An obituary on July 28 about Walter Jackson Bate, an emeritus professor of English at Harvard University, misstated the century of John Keats, about whom Mr. Bate wrote a 1964 Pulitzer Prize-winning biography. Keats was a poet of the 19th century, not the 18th.
      