
        Bertram E. Smythies, a versatile British naturalist who wrote about birds and trees in southeast Asia and flowers in southwestern Europe, died on Tuesday in the county of Kent in England. Mr. Smythies, 86, had settled in Estepona in the south of Spain in the mid-1960's.
        Mr. Smythies' 1960 book, ''The Birds of Borneo,'' was called remarkable, magisterial and ''a treatise on the entire relationship between man and birds on the island'' in his obituary in Saturday's Times of London.
        A fellow British naturalist, Gathorne Cranbrook, wrote, in The Independent's obituary of Mr. Smythies, that ''The Birds of Borneo'' and his 1941 book ''The Birds of Burma'' (State Mutual), ''are towering landmarks in the development of the regional ornithology.''
        Mr. Smythies was born in India, where his father was a forest-conservation official. He returned to Britain for schooling, studied botany and forestry at Oxford and became an official of the Burmese Forest Service in 1934.
        Work in Burma with another naturalist, H. C. Smith, led Mr. Smythies to write ''The Birds of Burma,'' working part time on it for nine months in 1940. It was illustrated by a British Navy officer, Lieut. Comdr. A. M. Hughes.
        Not long after the first 1,000-copy edition of the work was printed in Burma, many of those copies were abandoned there when Japanese forces invaded the country. The Japanese paid the book the compliment of sending numerous copies to Tokyo, but an air raid there destroyed them.
        Luckily, pictures and picture-plates for the book were spirited out of Burma by H. C. Smith's wife and by Mr. Smythies. He went on to serve with the British Army behind the Japanese lines in Burma. A second, 1953 edition of the book has become prized by bibliophiles.
        After World War II ended, he worked in Burma, now Myanmar, and in Brunei, and he became Conservator of Forests in Sarawak, an enclave on the island of Borneo that became a British crown colony after the war. There he wrote ''Sarawak Forest Trees'' in 1965. It was a technical guide for foresters and the timber industry.
        After moving to Spain, Mr. Smythies became a co-author, with Oleg Polunin, a botanist, of the book ''Flowers of South-West Europe: A Field Guide'' (1973, Oxford), with illustrations by Mr. Smythies' wife, the former Jill Rogers, whom he had married in 1964. She died in 1994.
      