
        Eugene S. Pulliam, publisher of The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News, a champion of the First Amendment who signed a declaration that said Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's methods threatened press freedom and American freedom, died on Wednesday in Indianapolis.
        He was 84 and lived in Indianapolis.
        Mr. Pulliam had been ill for most of 1998 but continued to have a voice in the two newspapers' operations by telephone, the executive editor of the papers, Frank Caperton, said yesterday.
        Mr. Pulliam became publisher of The Star and The News in 1975 after the death of his father, Eugene C. Pulliam, who had held those posts.
        In a widely quoted interview in 1991, Mr. Pulliam declared, ''I think newspapers will continue to be the only sizable check on Government.''
        His devotion to press freedom spanned the more than six decades of his career in journalism and was especially notable in the McCarthy era, during which he was the managing editor of The Indianapolis News.
        In the early 1950's, he strongly criticized what he called the smear tactics of McCarthy, a Wisconsin Republican.
        Mr. Pulliam was a member of an 11-member special committee of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which studied McCarthy's questioning of James A. Wechsler, editor of The New York Post, at closed Senate hearings on April 24 and May 5, 1953.
        Basil Walters, president of the society, appointed the committee to determine whether McCarthy had used his Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations in an effort to intimidate Mr. Wechsler while ostensibly investigating Communist activities in the United States. The Post had been critical of McCarthy.
        Mr. Walters announced on Aug. 12 in Washington that the committee's members had been unable to agree whether freedom of the press had been threatened in McCarthy's questioning of Mr. Wechsler. Mr. Walters did not disclose the numerical divisions on the committee, but Mr. Pulliam and three other members filed an additional report that said McCarthy's methods were not only a threat to freedom of the press but also ''a peril to American freedom.''
        The other committee members who signed that report were J. R. Wiggins, managing editor of The Washington Post; Herbert Brucker, editor of The Hartford Courant; and William M. Tugman, editor of The  Register-Guard in Eugene, Ore.
        Later that day McCarthy was asked in New York about the four editors' strong -- and, at the time, daring -- criticism of his methods.  He replied: ''When you dig out a crooked lawyer, other lawyers do not say you are impairing the freedom of the legal profession. When you dig out a dishonest banker, other bankers don't plead injury. It seems rather ridiculous to me that there are claims of infringement of freedom of the press whenever you attempt to dig out crooks or Communists in that profession.''
        Mr. Pulliam was also capable of voicing criticism of journalists. After Dan Quayle, his nephew, was elected Vice President in 1988, Mr. Pulliam contended that the press had been guilty of ''unfair and inaccurate reporting'' during the Presidential campaign.
        A native of Atchison, Kan., Eugene Smith Pulliam was the son of Myrta Smith Pulliam and of Eugene Collins Pulliam, the proprietor of The Atchison Champion newspaper. The elder Mr. Pulliam went on to own more than four dozen newspapers around the United States.
        It was after the elder Mr. Pulliam bought The Evening Star, in Franklin, Ind., that the Pulliam family moved to Indiana. There the younger Eugene Pulliam began his career in journalism, as a newspaper delivery boy. He received a bachelor's degree in 1935 from DePauw University, worked for what was then the United Press and in radio, served in the Navy in World War II and became aviation editor of The Indianapolis Star.
        He rose from there through the ranks of his father's newspaper empire, becoming also the executive vice president of Central Newspapers Inc., the parent company of the Pulliam newspaper group. He still held that post at his death.
        He was also prominent in newspaper industry organizations.
        Mr. Pulliam is survived by his wife, the former Jane Bleecker, whom he married in 1943; two daughters, Myrta J. Pulliam of Indianapolis, who is director of electronic news and information at Indianapolis Newspapers, and Deborah S. Pulliam of Castine, Me., a freelance writer; a son, Russell B., of Indianapolis, who is editor of The News; and six grandchildren.
      