
        Johnny Van Ryn, whose doubles partnership with Wilmer Allison proved to be the anchoring force of the United States Davis Cup team from 1929 to 1936, died Saturday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 94 years old.
        Born in Newport News, Va., in 1905, Van Ryn's doubles expertise first attracted notice during his collegiate stint at Princeton, where he won the United States intercollegiate doubles championship in 1927.
        Once he teamed up with the scrappy Allison, who won the collegiate singles title that same year for his alma mater, Texas, Van Ryn quickly distinguished himself on the Grand Slam front. He and Allison captured the first of their four career Grand Slam titles at Wimbledon in 1929, and successfully defended it in 1930.
        The duo also reached six United States finals, one short of Fred Alexander and Harold Hackett's record seven, and they won the national titles in 1931 and 1935.
        When Van Ryn paired with an alternate partner, George Lott, and won the French Open and Wimbledon doubles crowns in 1931, he became the only American man to prevail in Wimbledon's doubles championship for three consecutive years.
        Van Ryn also enjoyed a notable singles career, ranking among the United States' top 10 from 1927 to 1932 and reaching the world top 10 in 1929 and 1931, but he got no closer to the singles title at Forest Hills than the quarterfinals.
        But it was on the international Davis Cup front where Van Ryn left his greatest mark. His 14-2 record there alongside Allison was not eclipsed until John McEnroe and Peter Fleming teamed up decades later and accumulated a 14-1 record.
        Over all, Van Ryn produced Davis Cup records of 7-1 in singles and 22-2 in his specialty, doubles.
        Van Ryn was a prominent player in the controversial 1932 Davis Cup showdown between France, the defending champion, and the Americans. On a heavily watered clay court at Roland Garros, which was intended to disturb the Americans and fortify the French, Van Ryn and Allison defeated Henri Cochet and Jacques Brugnon to cut France's lead to 2-1 in the five-match competition and set up a pivotal duel between Allison and Jean Borotra.
        After losing his surprising two-set lead, Allison again nosed ahead in the fifth set and, after squandering three match points, began celebrating a 2-2 Davis Cup deadlock when Borotra served an apparent double fault on the fourth match point.
        Instead, the serve was ruled legal, Borotra went on to claim the match and guarantee France its sixth straight Davis Cup championship. Van Ryn and the rest of the dumbfounded United States squad boycotted the official Davis Cup dinner that evening under orders from Dwight Davis himself.
        ''I only ever heard him cuss once,'' Van Ryn said of Davis, who inaugurated the Davis Cup competition in 1900, ''and it was then.''
        Van Ryn's Davis Cup career ended in 1936, and he was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1963.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Cornelia Drake Van Ryn.
      