
        William L. Slayton, who moved against racial discrimination as Commissioner of Urban Renewal in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Slayton, a Kansas-born Democrat, worked for the Housing and Home Finance Agency and as an urban renewal expert for the Ford Foundation before President John F. Kennedy chose him in 1961 to be Commissioner of the Urban Renewal Administration. It was part of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, which was succeeded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Slayton held the post until 1966.
        Early in 1962 he issued a policy letter notifying 539 local public agencies involved in urban renewal that all contracts with private developers had to specifically include this clause:
        ''The redeveloper will comply with all state and local laws, in effect from time to time, prohibiting discrimination or segregation by reason of race, religion, color, or national origin in the sale, lease, or occupancy of the property.''
        By then, 17 states and numerous cities had enacted measures against discrimination in housing. But until then, local public agencies had been required only to notify developers of the existence of such laws and to warn them that violators would be prohibited from further participation in urban renewal.
        Charles Abrams, president of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing, pointed out that the new policy did not prevent discrimination by redevelopers in the South, where no anti-discrimination laws existed, as long as no restrictive covenants were employed. Mr. Slayton subsequently announced further steps to combat racial discrimination.
        In mid-1962 the Urban Renewal Administration announced stiffer rules to insure that families displaced by urban-renewal projects were not left without decent housing. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People had asserted that, in eight communities outside New York City, blacks had been displaced by urban-renewal projects and had not been relocated satisfactorily.
        Mr. Slayton was something of a champion of the big cities. He said in a 1964 speech that they might continue to lose people and manufacturing to the suburbs, but they could still survive as major cultural and entertainment areas, financial centers and special marketing outlets.
        In 1964 the Urban Renewal Administration announced that more than 100,000 acres in 177 communities had been set aside for recreational and scenic uses under the Federal-state-local open-space land program. Mr. Slayton said then that almost half of the grants being issued had gone to metropolitan areas with populations of more than one million.
        In the same year, The New York Times architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable wrote that recent urban-renewal and other government-aided construction included ''some handsome buildings and some well-planned projects, and the Urban Renewal Administration, under its design-conscious head, William L. Slayton, can point to some obvious, if occasionally partial, successes.''
        As Commissioner, Mr. Slayton was popular and widely regarded as an able official. But he resigned in 1966, after being passed over for two assistant secretary posts in the Department of Housing and Urban Development, after it succeeded the Housing and Home Finance Agency.
        He went on to become president of Urban America Inc., a nonprofit organization in Washington concerned with the crisis in the cities. The other posts he held in his later years included Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Foreign Buildings.
        A native of Topeka, Kan., he received degrees in municipal government and in public administration from the University of Chicago.
        His survivors include his wife of 58 years, the former Mary Pritchard; two daughters, Betsy Slayton Campbell of Salt Lake City and Barbara Jean Slayton Shelton of East Quogue, N.Y.; a brother, Clarence H. Slayton Jr. of Mount Airy, Va., and four grandchildren.
      