
        Jean Drapeau, who in nearly three decades as the autocratic Mayor of Montreal brought both grandeur and grandiosity to his city, died on Thursday. He was 83.
        Mr. Drapeau, who left office in 1986, had been in fragile health since suffering a stroke several years ago. He had been in the hospital since July 5.
        Throughout Canada, Mr. Drapeau is remembered as the Mayor who turned Montreal from a declining, crime-beleaguered city into an international gem by bringing it a subway, a world's fair, an Olympics, a Major League Baseball team and remarkable architectural projects.
        Pierre Bourque, the current Mayor, observed that when Mr. Drapeau  became Mayor in 1954, ''parts of the city were very poor and Montreal was a divided city.''
        ''He brought Montreal into the Modern Age.''
        Jean Chretien, Canada's Prime Minister, said Mr. Drapeau had won ''a rightful place among the ranks of the finest leaders and statesmen that Canada has ever produced.''
        More muted, but nonetheless evident in public recollections, were mentions of some of Mr. Drapeau's  more Quixotic and extravagant projects that continued to burden the city with debt long after he left office. The most striking example of both the heady days of preening in the 1960's and 70's and the fiscal hangover that followed in the 80's is the stadium with the retractable roof that was built for the 1970 Olympics at a cost that Mr. Drapeau originally projected at $120 million.
        By 1991, when a 55-ton chunk of concrete fell from the outer wall of the stadium, forcing the Montreal Expos to find another place for their home games, the bill for its building and repair had risen to $2 billion, forcing city residents to pay a special property tax. A federal Canadian commission investigating the Olympic expenditures laid most of the blame for vast overruns on Mayor Drapeau, charging that no cost limit were ever set by him.
        For his part Mayor Drapeau dismissed such criticism by saying, ''The Olympics can no more have a deficit than a man can have a baby.''
        Toward the end of his reign, some extravagant projects reduced his popularity and criticisms sprouted. Nick Auf Der Maur, an elected Councilman and a columnist for the Montreal Gazette, who praised the Mayor for having been ''a master builder,'' scorned his go-it-alone style of governance. He said he and 56 other councilmen were being paid salaries of $22,000 a year ''to come down once every two or three months and approve two or three hundred resolutions the Mayor had put together.''
        In an obituary today in The Montreal Gazette, Mr. Drapeau was likened to Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago as ''the last of a breed of North American big-city bosses.'' But as a boss, he had his own style, projecting the modesty of a neighborhood fellow who drove his own car, lived in the house he always lived in and retired on a city pension of $29,000 and valued his own counsel above any other.
        For most of his career the mix worked well, both to build up Montreal and its allure and to secure Mr. Drapeau's reputation, not as a great democrat, but as a man who changed the face of a great metropolis. Once, he had described his vision: ''Let Toronto be Milan and Montreal can be Rome.''
        And indeed despite the questionable projects, there were many more  successes: the rubber-wheeled subway, the towers of Place Ville-Marie, the Habitat housing complex designed by Moshe Safdie.
        Today, Mayor Bourque noted that Mr. Drapeau also ''improved quality of life by planting trees, creating parks and opening swimming pools.'' Years ago, Mr. Drapeau had spoken of what the grandeur of a city can mean to even its poorest residents. ''People's lives do not have to be drab and dreary and wrapped in old newspapers. They deserve something for the soul and noble visions.''
        A man of medium height with a pencil mustache and dark eyes and a presence that The New Yorker once described as ''commanding without being aggressive,'' Mr. Drapeau was a descendant of French settlers who arrived in Montreal in 1642, the year it was founded.
        In a city then known for its gangsters, bordellos and gambling, Mr. Drapeau became a crusading prosecutor, and was elected Mayor in 1954 as the candidate of the Civic Action League. In office he stressed  vigorous law enforcement and achieved a reduction in crime statistics. A passionate opera lover, he also put through his first big building project, a 3,000-seat concert hall whose financing and location had been a matter of inconclusive debate for 25 years.
        Nonetheless, Mr. Drapeau soon came into conflict with the City Council and the Quebec political machine led by Maurice Duplessis, who defeated him in 1957. Regaining the Mayor's office in 1960, he began a streak of triumphs that ended only when he stepped down 26 years later. This tenure coincided with Quebec's silent revolution, a period of French Canadian resurgence in which the power of the Catholic Church and Mr. Duplessis lessened sharply.
        Mr. Drapeau quickly found ways to reduce the prerogatives of the Council and intensified his building program. A few days after Le Metro, the transit system opened in 1966, a Mayoral election was held in which Mr. Drapeau won his fourth term by a vote that fell just short of unanimous.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie-Claire, whom he married in 1945, and his sons, Pierre, Michel and Francois.
        Correction:  August 18, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about former Mayor Jean Drapeau of Montreal misstated the year of the Olympics he promoted there. It was 1976, not 1970.
      