
        Stanley Grafton Mortimer Jr., a sportsman, advertising executive and member of one of the founding families of the exclusive enclave of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., died on Wednesday after a long illness at his home in Harriman, N.Y. He was 86.
        Mr. Mortimer was a member of an illustrious American family. Through his father, a Wall Street broker, he was a descendant of John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States and a signer of the Declaration of Independence. His mother, the former Kathleen Tilford, was the daughter of Henry Morgan Tilford, a founder of the Standard Oil Company of California.
        Mr. Mortimer grew up in Tuxedo Park in Keewaydin, a Stanford White house that once belonged to Pierre Lorillard. The Mortimers and Lorillards were the founding families of Tuxedo Park. Sally Bedell Smith, in her book ''In All His Glory: The Life of William S. Paley,'' noted that Mr. Mortimer's grandmother, the widow of Henry Morgan Tilford, was for four decades one of the reigning dowagers of Tuxedo Park, and that her annual debutante dinners before the Autumn Ball determined which young women were approved for New York society.
        Mr. Mortimer was educated at St. Mark's School and graduated from Harvard in 1936. He served in the Pacific in World War II, rising to lieutenant commander in the Navy.
        A vigorous sportsman, he was a member of the Jockey Club, and his Keewaydin racing stable was successful for many years in France. He was also a tennis player and low-handicap golfer, and he took part in hunting-dog field trials.
        In his career, he was director of advertising for both Trans World Airlines and Pan American World Airways.
        Mr. Mortimer was a member of the Racquet and Tennis Club in New York; the National Golf Links and the Southampton Club on Long Island, and the Tuxedo Park Club, where he served on the board of governors.
        His first marriage, in 1940 to Barbara Cushing, ended in divorce in 1946, and she later married Mr. Paley, the longtime leader of CBS. The following year, Mr. Mortimer married Kathleen H. Harriman, daughter of W. Averell Harriman and the granddaughter of E. H. Harriman, the railroad tycoon.
        He is survived by his wife; five children, all of Manhattan -- Stanley Mortimer 3d and Amanda Mortimer Burden from his first marriage, and David H. Mortimer, Jay L. Mortimer and Averell H. Mortimer from his second marriage; two sisters, Eve Mortimer Ledyard of Unionville, Pa., and Katherine Mortimer Blaine of Manhattan; two brothers, Richard Mortimer of Southampton, N.Y., and John Jay Mortimer of Manhattan, 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      