
        Dezider Grunberger, a cancer researcher and professor emeritus of biochemistry, molecular biophysics and public health at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died on Aug. 7 at a nursing home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        The cause was colon cancer, his family said.
        Much of Dr. Grunberger's investigations focused on chemical carcinogens and the mechanism by which they cause cancer.
        He studied the correlation between the structure of DNA as modified by carcinogens and types of mutations induced in multicell organisms.
        He helped develop antitumor drugs based on propolis, also known as bee glue, a brownish, waxy substance collected by bees from the buds of certain trees and used to caulk beehives. Propolis has long served as a folk remedy for various ailments. Dr. Grunberger helped to explain the active elements in propolis. He also shed new light on unusual DNA bases and atypical conformations of DNA itself.
        Dezider (Dijon) Grunberger was born in the ancient town of Kosice, then part of Czechoslovakia and now part of eastern Slovakia.
        He earned a master's degree in inorganic chemistry at the University of Prague in 1950, and a Ph.D. (1956) and D.Sc. (1968) in biochemistry at the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences in Prague, where he later became the founding director of the academy's radioisotope laboratory.
        In 1964, he made his first trip to the United States, to work for the National Institutes of Health, and began his long association with Columbia's Comprehensive Cancer Center.
        He settled in this country in 1968 and rose through the academic ranks to become a professor of biochemistry and biophysics and deputy director of the cancer research center.
        Dr. Grunberger is survived by his wife of 50 years, Marta Herman Grunberger; two sons, Dr. George Grunberger of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Dr. Ivan Grunberger of Cresskill; a sister, Edith Taus of Munich, and five grandchildren.
      