
        Nirad C. Chaudhuri, whose first book in English, ''The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian,'' was written when he was 53 and thought his life would soon end, died on Sunday at  101. In the five decades of grace he received after completing the autobiography, he saw it acclaimed as a classic and wrote many other provocative, crotchety and elegant works of prose, completing his most recent book in his 99th year.
        Mr. Chaudhuri died at his home in Oxford, England, where he had lived since leaving India when he was 73.  His expatriate years were spent thinking and writing about the land of his birth.
        Mr. Chaudhuri (pronounced CHOW-dree) drew upon his personal experiences as he chronicled the transformation of India from British colony to independent state.
        ''Nirad Chaudhuri is a fiction created by the Indian writer of the same name -- a bizarre, outrageous and magical transformation of that stock character of imperialist literature, the Bengali Babu,'' David Lelyveld, a historian of modern India, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1988. ''Ever since Mr. Chaudhuri failed his M.A. examination in history at Calcutta University and threw over a secure post as clerk in the military accounts department, he has devoted himself to responding to the notion that Indians could not be truly learned in the civilization of Europe. As a man of culture -- not, as he would put it, in the anthropological sense -- he would beat the British at their own game.''
        And beat them he did. When ''Autobiography'' appeared in 1951 it  established Mr. Chaudhuri's reputation in influential portions of the English-speaking world far beyond India. He became known as a writer of the first rank and as an interpreter -- and raging defender -- of the vanished civilization of the Bengal Hindu aristocracy into which he had been born.
        V. S. Naipaul wrote, ''Chaudhuri's 'Autobiography' may be the one great books to have come out of the Indo-English encounter. No better account of the penetration of the Indian mind by the West -- and by extension, of the penetration of one culture by another -- will be or now  can be written.''
        Mr. Chaudhuri's book originated in despair. He was not pleased with the rise of Indian nationalism or the imminent withdrawal of the British from the subcontinent it had ruled  since 1757. He realized that both developments would put an end to the time of the Babus, his fellow intellectual Bengalis centered in Calcutta who had reached out to European civilization and who he thought should be the political and cultural rulers of modern India.
        He saw himself as the last survivor of the Bengal Renaissance, the vital and creative cultural movement that was initiated by Ram Mohan Roy in the 19th century and that  ended with the death in 1941 of Rabindranath Tagore, Asia's first Nobelist in literature.
        At the same time he felt more personal frustrations.
        ''The dormant dissatisfaction woke up and I could no longer shut my eyes to the stark fact that I had no achievement to speak of although I was going to be 50,'' Mr. Chaudhuri  wrote in the second installment of his autobiography, a 963-page volume titled ''Thy Hand, Great Anarch!: India, 1921-1952,'' which he completed in 1988. ''The sense of failure was made more acute by an idea which I had just at that time that I was not going to live much longer and my health being what it was I would probably die in two or three years. What could I do, I bitterly thought, in that short space of time?'' His title refers to Alexander Pope's 1728 poem ''The Dunciad,'' with its last lines, ''Thy hand, great Anarch! lets the curtain fall; And universal darkness buries all.''
        His idea was to weave recollections of personal experience with accounts of the history he had lived through from his birth in the village of Kishorganj on Nov. 23, 1897, until 1921, when he failed to gain his master's degree.
        Nirad Chandra Chaudhuri set out to write ''Autobiography'' in 1947, the year of India's independence and partition. Bengal was divided, with Mr. Chaudhuri's birthplace within  what was then East Pakistan and is now Bangladesh. Every day in his Delhi apartment, before he went to work writing news commentaries for All India Radio, he typed 2,500 words of autobiography.
        Personal Life And Politics Entwined
        ''His memoir follows the pattern of much Bengali fiction,'' Mr. Lelyveld noted. ''There is a sensitive and lyrical description of early childhood and education in the rural heartland of Bengal, followed by an account of a painful uprooting to the city of Calcutta; in the end, the hero is cast adrift in tragic isolation -- all this a romantic echo of the classical Hindu stages of life.''
        Mr. Chaudhuri wrote of the humiliating end of his academic career, his dismal prospects, how his friends considered him a failure and how, when he was 34, his own father regarded him as the only one of his six sons who would never succeed.
        But with equal emphasis -- pari pasu, as he would say -- he also wrote about the tangled relationship between Britain and India, using citations not only in Latin, but also in French, Italian and German.
        The subtext of the book and of much of Mr. Chaudhuri's subsequent work was that the Bengal Renaissance was being overwhelmed by a combination of British racism, Indian nationalism and the rise of democracy. Though the British scorned the Babus and laughed at Kipling's caricatures of them, the Bengalis had paradoxically risen under British rule. Mr. Chaudhuri believed that as British power receded, the Westernization of Indian civilization,  which had been sponsored by the Bengalis and which he so cherished, was doomed. He felt that Gandhi and Nehru had thrown away any chance of India fulfilling what he believed to be its destiny as a Western country.
        After Independence, Tweaking Countrymen
        These ideas were in a controversial dedication in Mr. Chaudhuri's autobiography: ''To the memory of The British Empire in India, which conferred subjecthood on us but withheld citizenship; to which yet every one of us threw out the challenge: 'civis britannicus sum,' because all that was good and living within us was made, shaped and quickened by the same British rule.''
        Appearing as they did soon after India achieved independence, those lines infuriated many of Mr. Chaudhuri's countrymen, who never read much beyond the dedication and who came to regard the author not so much as the Bengali supremacist that he was but as a sycophant for the departed British. In fact, in this and other books, he frequently described Britain as a decadent society and condemned the British for their racism, at least for their racism directed at Bengalis.
        Mr. Chaudhuri, who long remembered slights and enjoyed repaying them in print, was not surprised by the reaction of his countrymen. Years later he would write that he intended the book primarily for foreign readers. ''I was determined that I would not give the book to an Indian publisher because I knew that a book in English published in India would not be regarded as worth much even by Indian readers, not to speak of those in the English-speaking countries.''
        The Unknown Indian of the title approached several London publishers and in the end Macmillan published his book. It received much  appreciative attention in Britain and the United States, though many critics regretted that Mr. Chaudhuri had been unkind to Nehru and Gandhi. As the book went through many editions it gained admirers.
        In 1990 when Oxford University gave Mr. Chaudhuri an honorary doctorate, the Public Orator, speaking in Latin, offered the following comment: ''Mr. Chaudhuri expressed his views on contemporary events with a frankness which was too great to make him popular with his fellow Indians, praising certain aspects of the Raj, and lacking in the requisite enthusiasm for the birth of New India. But with passage of time his reputation at home is now restored. The Unknown Indian of his book has deservedly won fame and recognition.''
        However true that may have been, the process was slow and Mr. Chaudhuri felt less and less comfortable in New Delhi while being praised abroad. Before the transformation, he had worked as a Government clerk and as a Bengali editor in Calcutta. In 1937 he became a private  secretary to Sarat Chandra Bose, an important leader of the Indian National Congress whose more famous brother, Subhas Chandra Bose, had obtained Japanese support to form the militant Indian National Army to pursue independence through armed struggle in opposition to Gandhian nonviolence. In 1937 he also stopped writing in Bengali.
        With the advent of World War II he became, as he described it, ''an Englishman except in birth'' and began preparing commentaries for All India Radio. Mr. Chaudhuri left Bengal in 1942 as the Japanese closed in on the region and the political leadership of Bengali Hindus was eclipsed by Bengal's Muslim majority and by non-Bengalis like Gandhi and Nehru. ''My people had no future,'' he declared, ''and I was not prepared to share their fate.''
        He moved to Delhi, where he became a political commentator on the radio, a post he lost when ''Autobiography'' appeared.
        With him was his wife, Amiya, whom he married in 1932, a bride whose face he did not see until after the wedding. In an interview at their  home in Oxford in 1982, as Amiya Chaudhuri served a splendid Italian meal, Mr. Chaudhuri told how they had wed. Originally influenced by Western ideas, he said, he told his father, a lawyer and a municipal official, that he proposed to find his own bride as was done in the West. He spent a year visiting Socialist clubs in fruitless searches for a potential mate. Finally he returned to his father and asked him to find him  a wife by traditional means. In the interview, he praised his father for selecting such a remarkable woman, one who had followed him around the world, endured his poverty and tolerated his eccentricities to join him in learning about opera and wine and who bore him three sons, Dhruva, Kirti and Prith, who are his survivors.
        On his wedding night, Mr. Chaudhuri, who was then in his early 30's, was anxious and worried that his  wife would not want him to pursue his passion for collecting recordings of European classical music.
        He wrote: ''The horrible suspense about European music had reawakened in my mind, and I decided to make a clean breast of it at once, and look the sacrifice, if it was called for, straight in the face, and begin romance on such terms as were offered to me. I asked her timidly after a while, 'Have you listened to any European music?' She shook her head to say 'no.' Nonetheless, I took another chance and this time asked, 'Have you heard the name of a man called Beethoven?' She nodded and signified 'yes.' I was reassured, but not wholly satisfied, so I asked again, 'Can you spell the name?' She said slowly, 'B,E,E,T,H,O,V,E,N.' I felt very encouraged.''
        In Delhi Mr. Chaudhuri contributed to newspapers and in 1955 was invited on his first trip to Europe. That voyage was the subject of his second book, ''A Passage to England,'' which appeared in 1959. E. M. Forster, the author of ''A Passage to India,'' praised the book, saying of  Mr. Chaudhuri, ''Besides having integrity and courage, he possesses enthusiasm, cheerfulness and a good English style.'' Six years later he wrote ''The Continent of Circe: An Essay on the Peoples of India.''
        Mr. Chaudhuri and his wife moved to Oxford in 1970, never to return to India. Over the years he became a familiar sight walking the lanes and quadrangles, a thin, short, spry man in dhoti and kurta, the traditional loincloth and collarless jacket of India. In 1972 he was a guest lecturer at the University of Chicago and the University of Texas.
        He kept on writing and publishing; among his books were ''Scholar Extraordinary,'' a biography of Friedrich Max Muller, a German-born Orientalist (Chatto & Windus, 1974);  ''Clive of India,'' (Barrie & Jenkins, 1975); ''Culture in the Vanity Bag: Clothing and Adornment in Passing and Abiding India'' (Jaico, Bombay;  1976), and ''Hinduism: A Religion to Live By'' (Oxford University Press, 1979).
        Then in 1987 Chatto & Windus published ''Thy Hand, Great Anarch!,'' the autobiographical work that took up where ''The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian'' left off in 1921, and documented Mr. Chaudhuri's life until that earlier book appeared in 1951.
        An Offbeat Approach To Indian History
        Many critics admired his accounts of personal experiences but winced at what some regarded as a grand and idiosyncratic approach to history, often expressed with flowery erudition.
        By the time of that book's publication, the writer was 90 and with the death of Amiya in 1994, it seemed that his prodigiously examined life would close without further scrutiny.
        Then in 1997, Oxford University Press brought out Mr. Chaudhuri's ''Three Horsemen of the New Apocalypse.'' It began this way: ''The very first thing I have to tell those who read this book is that it is being written by a man in his 99th year. I have never read or heard of any author, however great or productive in his heyday, doing that. This confession alone will be enough to make the reader expect only senile babbling from me. It is not for me, however, to reassure him. He must be his own judge.''
        The book has its share of the author's characteristic fondness for outrageous or contrarian views. For openers, the three horsemen of the title are identified as Nationalism, Individualism and Democracy. Decadence, he wrote, was on the march in India, Britain and the United States, where its rise was best reflected in the decline of the institution of marriage. But while some passages still stung and the allusions still dazzled, the book was far shorter and sketchier than what had come before. Turning 100, the writer, it seemed, was finally running out of time.
      