
        Lieut. Col. Ernesto Melo Antunes, a Portuguese Army officer who was an architect and ideologist of the almost bloodless coup that overthrew his country's longtime conservative dictatorship in 1974 and led to the return of democracy, died on Tuesday in his home in Sintra, outside Lisbon. He was 66.
        He had cancer, the Portuguese national news agency Lusa reported.
        Major Melo Antunes, as he was at the time of the coup, was a Socialist and the chief architect of the political goals of the Armed Forces Movement, which gave rise to the coup that ended four decades of dictatorial rule in Portugal.
        The military coup was unusual in that its goal was to have Portugal become a democracy -- and that is what happened, after the ouster of the country's unpopular last dictator, Marcello Caetano.
        The dictatorship was begun in 1932 under Antonio de Oliveira Salazar and maintained by Mr. Caetano, beginning in 1968.
        As the Spanish national radio put it after the death of Colonel Melo Antunes, ''He was one of the military officers who led the so-called Armed Forces Movement, the core of the revolution of the carnations,'' as the coup is sometimes called because joyful soldiers slipped red carnations into the barrels of their rifles.
        And Mario Soares, a Socialist who served two terms as President in the post-coup era, said, He had ''had enormous influence in the Revolution, despite being a discreet figure of scarce words.''
        Major Melo Antunes became a member of the Council of the Revolution, which was established to supervise the restoration of democracy and ceased operations in 1982. He became Deputy Prime Minister for a time when a new Government, heavily dominated by the armed forces, was formed in July 1974, after a post-coup, almost entirely civilian Government had fallen apart less than two months after taking office.
        He went on to be Foreign Minister in 1975 and 1976, and from 1982 to 1989 he headed the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
        In 1975, he became the first representative of the new Government of Prime Minister Jose Batista Pinheiro Azevedo to visit Washington since it took power in Lisbon a month earlier after removing left-leaning leaders.
        After he met with President Ford and Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, the White House announced an $85 million package of emergency economic aid for Portugal, and Major Melo Antunes said that he was ''grateful for the support and sympathy President Ford has shown for the efforts that the present team in Portugal is doing to establish true democracy in Portugal.''
        By late 1975, he was not only Foreign Minister but also the leader of the left in the military, because the extreme leftists had been purged. He told reporters at that time that the main danger to the revolution came from members of the former privileged class trying to win the support of certain elements in the military.
        In the beginning, he said, all the Portuguese people seemed to agree with the socialist program of the Armed Forces Movement. ''But when the program began to be carried out, the more privileged classes began to react against the loss of privileges and organize themselves against the revolution,'' he declared.
        While he was Foreign Minister, he made it clear that he believed that the military should retain a central role in politics ''to guarantee the revolution.''
        He also was the chief of a commission that supervised the end of Portugal's colonial rule in Angola, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and the Cape Verde Islands.
      