
        Frank M. Kleiler, a retired deputy assistant Secretary of Labor and a former executive secretary of the National Labor Relations Board, died on Aug. 8 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md., where he lived. He was 85.
        In the Johnson and Nixon Administrations, Mr. Kleiler served as chairman of a Labor Department task force that drafted proposed legislation resulting in the Employment Retirement Income Security Act. He also administered major portions of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act and the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure Act.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Kleiler played a small role in President Truman's unsuccessful effort in a labor dispute in the early 1950's to nationalize the steel industry, as well as in Federal efforts to block Major League Baseball players from unionizing in the 1940's.
        Mr. Kleiler was born on April 17, 1914, in Green Bay, Wis., and grew up in Shorewood, a suburb of Milwaukee. He graduated from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Moving to Washington after college, he was a reporter for The Evening Star. A year later, he moved to Boston to work for The Boston Herald.
        He returned to Washington in 1937, working for the National Mediation Board, and, in 1939, he was transferred to the National Labor Relations Board.
        During the Korean War, he worked for the Wage Stabilization Board, but he returned to the Labor Department in 1953. He became a Deputy Assistant Secretary in 1969, and stayed in that post until 1973, receiving the department's distinguished career service award.
        In retirement, he worked with a Chicago publisher on employment benefits plans. In 1974 and 1975, he led a team from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service to supervise tribal elections on the Ogalalla Sioux Indian Reservation at Pine Ridge, S.D. He also wrote a book, ''Can We Afford Early Retirement?'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1978).
        His wife, Frances, died in 1982. He is survived by two sons, David A. Sr., of Brookline, Mass., and James R., of Kensington, Md., and two grandchildren.
      