
        Tang Tsou, an authority on modern China and a longtime professor at the University of Chicago, died on Aug. 7 in a hospital in Chicago. He was 80 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was heart failure, said William Harms of the university's news office.
        Professor Tsou retired from the university in 1988 as the Homer J. Livingston Professor in Political Science. He began as an assistant professor in 1959.
        ''Tang Tsou was a brilliant scholar whose contribution to the understanding of China was enormous,'' said Michel Oksenberg, a political scientist who is a senior fellow at the Asia Pacific Research Center at Stanford University.
        Professor Oksenberg called Professor Tsou ''a seminal thinker who sought to understand the dynamics of Chinese politics and how those politics embrace the Chinese intellectual tradition, its social fabric and its modern history.''
        His book ''The Cultural Revolution and Post-Mao Reforms: A Historical Perspective'' (University of Chicago, 1986), a collection of eight papers he wrote between 1967 and 1983, was praised in a review by Anne Collier in The Christian Science Monitor as ''valuable to both scholar and lay person in its capsulizing of historical events while giving them a theoretical context.''
        He won particular praise, as well as criticism, for his book ''America's Failure in China, 1941-1950'' (1963).
        It was applauded in a review in The New York Times Book Review by Henry R. Lieberman, an editor at The Times who had been a Far East correspondent for many years. He wrote, ''This is a balanced, scholarly and sobering work that helps set the record clear on United States relations with China from the time of Pearl Harbor to General MacArthur's ill-fated advance to the Yalu in Korea.''
        The book's main thesis was that the failure of United States policy in China had stemmed from an imbalance between ambitious goals and insufficient means. But Mr. Lieberman said the situation in China was more complicated than Professor Tsou had suggested.
        Specifically, as Dali Yang, another University of Chicago political scientist, put it, Professor Tsou's position in the book ''was that the Nationalist Government lost to the Communists in the Chinese Civil War because the Nationalist Government was corrupt and riven by infighting.''
        Professor Tsou was also a co-editor of the two-volume work ''China in Crisis'' (1968). That work, comprising essays by 28 authors and 39 critical commentaries and responses, was praised in a review by Jonathan Spence, a Yale history professor. He said, ''It constitutes the most comprehensive and the most intelligent attempt yet made to survey the Chinese Communist political system.''
        Professor Tsou was born in Guangzhou and received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from National Southwestern Associated University in Kunming and his doctorate in 1951 from the University of Chicago, where he arrived as a student in 1941.
        He is survived by his wife, Yi-Chuang Lu.
      