
        Robert T. Jones, an innovator in aircraft design at NASA who played an important role in developing the high-speed swept wing, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 89.
        During World War II, as the designers of combat aircraft sought ever-greater speeds, German manufacturers like those building Messerschmitt and Junkers developed and built the first jet fighters and bombers with swept wings. The swept-wing Messerschmitt 262 was the first jet fighter to fly in combat and inflicted heavy losses on Allied bombers as the war drew to a close.
        Critics of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, the predecessor of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, later said the design agency had failed to develop jet engines or swept wings at a time when Germany was the clear leader in high-speed aircraft design.
        After the war the United States rushed to catch up, and Mr. Jones played a crucial role.
        In a statement on Thursday, William Berry, deputy director of NASA Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, Calif., described Mr. Jones as ''one of the world's most highly acclaimed aeronautical engineers.''
        Besides developing swept wings to reduce the drag imposed on aircraft flying faster than the speed of sound, Mr. Jones's innovations included a wing designed for oblique flight, with one side swept forward and the other backward. It was thought that a supersonic transport plane based on the peculiar-looking design would be particularly efficient, and a large model was successfully tested five years ago. But so far the design has not caught on.
        Mr. Jones never obtained a bachelor's degree, but his college training at Catholic University in Washington included a course by Max Munk, a prominent German aerodynamicist.
        By the time Mr. Jones retired from NASA in 1981, he had acquired a host of awards and honors, including an honorary doctorate from the University of Colorado. In 1973 he was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, and in 1981 he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences. In the same year he was presented with the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service. He also received the Smithsonian Institution's Langley Award, which is bestowed only on leading aeronautical pioneers.
        Mr. Jones is survived by his wife, Megan More of Los Altos Hills; two daughters, Harriet Jones of Berkeley, Calif., and Patricia Jones of San Diego, and four sons, David, of Corinth, Miss., Edward, of Murfreesboro, Tenn., and Gregory and John, both of Los Altos.
      