
        Edward L. Morgan, a former White House lawyer who in 1974 pleaded guilty to participating in a plan to create a fraudulent $576,000 tax deduction for President Richard M. Nixon, died on Aug. 6 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 61.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Morgan had been a resident for a time at a convalescent center in Los Angeles, but had returned to his home in Santa Monica a couple of years ago, a staff member of the center said yesterday.
        Mr. Morgan pleaded guilty to tax fraud in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on Nov. 8, 1974, three months after Mr. Nixon resigned as President. Mr. Morgan had been charged with one count of conspiracy to impair, impede, defeat and obstruct the proper and lawful governmental functions of the Internal Revenue Service.
        In December 1974, when Mr. Morgan was sentenced, Judge Gerald L. Hart Jr. said Mr. Morgan's misdeed had been ''an effort to serve with misplaced loyalty a superior who held the highest office in the land.''
        Judge Hart sentenced Mr. Morgan to 4 months in prison and 20 months' probation. He served the sentence at a Federal detention center at Lompoc, Calif.
        Mr. Morgan testified in 1975 at the trial of another defendant in the case that he had never been asked by any White House official to use the donation of the President's papers to obtain a tax deduction for Mr. Nixon.
        Mr. Morgan, a native of Lorain, Ohio, graduated from the University of Arizona and its law school. He  served as a captain in the Army before becoming a trial lawyer in Phoenix.
        He worked on Mr. Nixon's 1968 Presidential campaign, and then early in the Nixon Administration became the deputy to the Presidential aide John D. Ehrlichman. Mr. Morgan later served as an Assistant Treasury Secretary until January 1974, when he was forced to resign because of the furor over his role in creating the fraudulent tax deduction.
        The accusations to which he pleaded guilty included knowingly backdating documents relating to Mr. Nixon's gift of papers to the National Archives and misrepresenting who had legal title to the documents on crucial dates.
        The question of the validity of the deduction for the papers turned on timing. In 1969 Congress passed a law prohibiting tax deductions for such gifts after July 25, 1969.
        The information filed in district court said Mr. Morgan and other conspirators had known that the papers were not actually given to the Archives until a year later, and that the documents were fraudulently backdated to make it seem otherwise.
        In pleading guilty, Mr. Morgan acknowledged he had knowingly backdated documents involved in the gift of Nixon papers to the Government. He also cooperated with the prosecution of other associates of Mr. Nixon.
      