
        Edward T. Parrack, an advertising executive who supervised some of the best-known campaigns in the early years of television, died Jan. 13 at his home in Oakland in western Pennsylvania. He was 84.
        As an account executive of Ketchum MacLeod & Grove, an international advertising and public relations agency based in Pittsburgh, he helped organize the commercial sponsorship of the nationally televised political conventions that nominated Dwight D. Eisenhower and Adlai E. Stevenson. Along the way, the conventions helped to make household names of Walter Cronkite, the CBS newsman, and Betty Furness, a spokeswoman for Westinghouse appliances.
        Mr. Parrack also arranged for the sponsorship of the first televised broadcasts of football by teams affiliated with the National Collegiate Athletic Association, said Gerald Voros, a longtime colleague at Ketchum.
        Mr. Parrack joined Ketchum in 1936 after graduating from the University of Pittsburgh. He became assistant to George Ketchum, the president and a founder of the agency, in 1940. He was chief executive  from 1962 until shortly before he retired in 1979.
        As president and later chairman, he helped to transform Ketchum from a medium-sized Pittsburgh agency that specialized in big hometown accounts like Gulf Oil, H. J. Heinz and Pittsburgh Plate Glass into an international business with offices in London and Tokyo.
        Ketchum acquired Botsford, Constantine & McCarty, a West Coast agency in 1969. Three years ago, Ketchum itself was bought by the Omnicom Group, based in New York, the world's largest advertising organization.
        Mr. Parrack was born in New York in 1914 and moved to Pittsburgh as a teen-ager in 1926. During World War II, he was a Lend-Lease officer for Poland, Greece and Yugoslavia, and in 1945 he was a special assistant to the Secretary of State, Edward R. Stettinius, at the San Francisco conference that created the United Nations.
        He was a life trustee of the Carnegie Institute and served on a number of hospital and private school boards.
        Survivors include his wife, Elizabeth Felix Parrack of Pittsburgh; a son, Edward Jr. of New York, and two grandsons.
      