
        Charles Samuel Joelson, a five-term Congressman from New Jersey who is best remembered for an  amendment that spared thousands of school libraries in 1969, died Tuesday at CentraState Medical Center in Freehold Township, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Freehold.
        Mr. Joelson, a Democrat from Paterson whose district covered most of Passaic County, was first elected to Congress in 1960. His name is associated with the ''Joelson Package,'' a spending amendment he pushed through the House just before leaving Capitol Hill for a judgeship back home in 1969.
        As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, he led the floor fight for a measure that added $1 billion to President Richard M. Nixon's education budget that year. The money kept an estimated 40,000 public elementary and secondary school libraries, most of them serving poor and minority pupils, from shutting down. It also saved their guidance counseling, vocational and remedial education programs.
        Mr. Joelson also helped President Lyndon B. Johnson enact his Great Society social welfare programs.
        Like his father, Harry, before him, Mr. Joelson made two unsuccessful runs for Congress from New Jersey's Eighth District, which had not sent a Democrat to the House since 1912. The first time, in 1948, he lost by just 148 votes. The second, in 1954, he lost more convincingly.
        But after his victory in 1960 -- with 54.3 percent of the vote -- he routinely won re-election. He resigned in his fifth term in 1969 to accept an appointment to the bench. At the time, he said he was tired of having to campaign every other year.
        He became a judge of Superior Court, hearing criminal cases. His other judicial positions were in the Chancery Division, as an assignment judge in Passaic County, and, finally, in the Appellate Division in Hackensack, from which he retired in 1984.
        A native of Paterson, Charles Joelson graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1937 from Cornell University, where he also received his law degree in 1939. He practiced law in Paterson until 1961, with time out for service as an ensign in the Navy's intelligence service in the Far East during World War II.
        He served on the Paterson City Council in the early 1950's and then as a ''racket-busting'' Deputy Attorney General of New Jersey. Before going to Washington as an unabashed liberal, he also was a prosecutor in Passaic County and the director of criminal investigation in the State Department of Law and Public Safety.
        Judge Joelson is survived by a daughter, Susan Kelly of Freehold, and two grandchildren.
      