
        Dr. Robert Byck, a psychiatrist and brain researcher at Yale Medical School who in 1979 gave Congress an early warning that the United States faced an epidemic of smokable cocaine, died on Aug. 9 in a Boston hospital. He was 66 and lived in Gilford, Conn.
        The cause was complications from a stroke suffered three days earlier, said Dr. Seth Powsner, a Yale colleague.
        In the early 1970's, growing concern about the effects of marijuana led Dr. Byck and a Yale associate, Dr. J. Murdoch Ritchie, to test its effects on the nerves.
        ''Back then,'' Dr. Powsner said, ''a lot of people thought smoking marijuana was like getting in a hot tub, which makes you feel good but has no direct effect on nerve cells.''
        But Dr. Byck and Dr. Ritchie were the first to show that the major component of marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC, had a direct effect on nerve cells and was more dangerous than previously thought, Dr. Powsner said.
        Shortly afterward, Dr. Byck and colleagues at the Yale Medical School began a study on the use of coca paste in Peru that led him to predict a coming crisis in the use of smoked cocaine.
        ''Peru had not had much of a problem from coca leaves or even powdered cocaine,'' said Dr. David F. Musto, a professor of medicine at Yale and author of a well-known study on cocaine. ''But Dr. Byck recognized that when coca paste is smoked, the body rapidly takes in enormous doses of cocaine and that creates a compulsive need for it.''
        In 1979, Dr. Byck testified before the House Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control. He said: ''The person who smokes coca paste has a very intense euphoria almost immediately after he starts smoking the cigarette. The patterns of use are compulsive and continuous. Users become totally dependent on the drug, will do anything to get it and may use it to the extent where they become paranoid, are totally involved with drug taking and become social cripples.''
        Dr. Byck said that the United States did not have an epidemic of freebase or coca-paste smoking but that the possibility of one strongly existed.
        ''We are on the brink of a dangerous drug-use phenomenon,'' Dr. Byck said. ''We should do something about it as rapidly as possible.''
        Dr. Byck also helped to expose monosodium glutamate, or MSG, as the additive responsible for the flush and headache of what became known as Chinese restaurant syndrome. He did some of his research at a restaurant near his laboratory at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York when he was a member of the pharmacology faculty there in the late 1960's.
        ''He published a paper in 1969 that identified MSG as the culprit,'' said Dr. John Olney, a professor of psychiatry at the Washington University Medical School in St. Louis, whose own research called attention to the dangers of MSG. ''Today, the toxicity of glutamate is widely recognized and studied,'' Dr. Olney said.
        Dr. Byck and Dr. Olney testified about their findings in 1969 before the Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs, and several years later, MSG was removed from baby foods.
        Robert Byck (pronounced bick), was born in Newark. He followed his father and older brother into medicine and received his medical degree at the University of Pennsylvania.
        In 1969, he went to Yale for training as a psychiatrist and joined the faculty there. In 1977, he was made a professor of psychiatry and pharmacology.
        Dr. Byck is survived by his second wife, Susan Wheeler Byck of Gilford; three sons, John, of Gilford, Lucas, of Norwalk, Conn., and Carl, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a daughter, Gillian Overholser of Marblehead, Mass; a brother, Walter, of Santa Rosa, and four grandchildren.
      