
        Douglas DeWitt Bazata, who served with the United States Office of Strategic Services behind enemy lines in France in World War II and later became an artist, died on July 14 in his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88.
        The death of Mr. Bazata was belatedly reported to The New York Times.
        He was described as ''a red-haired soldier of fortune who called all colonels 'Sugar' '' in a 1978 book, ''Honorable Men,'' by William E. Colby, a former Director of Central Intelligence, and Peter Forbath.
        Mr. Bazata had already served in the Marines and was a skilled boxer and marksman when he became an Army officer in 1942 and also joined the O.S.S., the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        He went on to be one of a daring group of about 50 American parachute officers who volunteered for what Mr. Colby described as ''a highly hazardous mission'' in Nazi-occupied France, Belgium and the Netherlands. Other members of the group included Stewart Alsop, later a noted journalist, and Mr. Colby.
        In Britain, the American group received training for operations as commandos and behind-the-lines guerrillas in what was called the O.S.S.'s Operation Jedburgh. It is said to have received that name from a place in Scotland where ''Jedburgh justice'' for sheep rustlers was said to mean, ''Hang them first and question them afterward.''
        More than 250 American and other Allied ''Jeds,'' as they became known, were dropped by parachute in three-man international teams across France, Belgium and the Netherlands to aid in leading the resistance in those countries against the German occupiers.
        In 1944, Captain Bazata, as he then was, managed to parachute into the Haute-Saone department in eastern France without being captured by the Germans. He was the leader of a three-man Jedburgh team, including an American radioman and a French officer. Their team's code name was Cedric.
        Once on the ground, Captain Bazata got in touch with a British secret agent whose code name was Emile. Emile had arrived in the Haute-Saone earlier, also by parachute, with the mission of assisting the area's Maquis, as the French anti-Nazi guerrillas were known, in various ways, including providing liaison between the Maquis and Allied elements in Britain. Mr. Bazata recalled, at a Jed reunion in 1988 in Washington, that when he parachuted into France, he brought along $300,000.
        The Maquis, along with Captain Bazata and Emile, harried the German troops and, it is said, drew attention away from a sector of France's strategically important Mediterranean coast.
        Mr. Bazata, a major by the time he left the Army in 1947, was recalled admiringly by Emile in a volume of memoirs, ''Maquis,'' which came out in 1947. Emile, whose real name was George Millar, wrote that ''walking with the tempestuous Bazata toward the German lines was like riding a horse with a mouth of iron.'' Once Emile and Captain Bazata escaped the attention of nearby Germans by pretending to be innocent Frenchmen gathering mushrooms.
        Bernard Knox, an American Jed and also a noted classicist, recalled on July 28 during Mr. Bazata's funeral in the chapel of Arlington National Cemetery, that during the war, ''when it came to close quarters, he was all steel.''
        His mettle was tested particularly during operations against the Germans in August and September 1944, when he earned the Purple Heart four times as well as the Distinguished Service Cross and France's Croix de Guerre with two palms.
        Mr. Bazata's postwar life was mercifully peaceful, and diverse. He studied wine making in Paris and worked in the wine industry in Europe for some years. A decade after the war's end, he also plunged into painting, in the abstract expressionist vein, and had one-man shows in France, England and Germany as well as the United States.
        His fellow painter Salvador Dali executed a canvas called ''Homage to Bazata'' in which Mr. Bazata was got up as Don Quixote. An admiring British art critic, Michael Webber, remarked in 1969, in the British journal Arts Review, that by then Mr. Bazata had lived ''a life eventful enough for a dozen novels.''
        In the early 1970's Mr. Bazata, having given up both the wine industry and the painting world, began operating a pheasant preserve and hunting club in Maryland. In later years he held a post in the Veterans Administration and went on to serve in the Reagan Administration as special assistant to Secretary of the Navy John F. Lehman Jr.
        Mr. Bazata was born in Wrightsville, Pa., the son of a Presbyterian minister. He studied at Syracuse University and served in the Marines from 1933 to 1937.
        His marriage in 1943 to Diana Chirieleison ended in divorce, as did his marriage in 1948 to Penelope Grant.
        His wife of 29 years, Marie Pierre Bazata, survives him, as does a son, Nicholas, of the county of Northumberland, England, and a brother, Charles, of Wilmington, Del.
      