
        Alfons Bach, a versatile modern designer of tubular steel furniture and other objects whose work was included in exhibitions of contemporary American industrial art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Pensacola, Fla. He was 95 and had lived in Pensacola since 1992.
        Mr. Bach was born and reared in Germany, moved to New York in 1926, became a freelance industrial designer and founded a design firm in Manhattan.
        His objects were in several of the Metropolitan Museum's biennial shows of contemporary industrial art, beginning in 1934.
        A tubular steel table and two chairs that he designed are at the Yale University Art Gallery. James D. Beebe, a specialist in the history of the decorative arts, said yesterday that tubular steel furniture designed by Mr. Bach for the Lloyd Manufacturing Company was made at its factory in Menominee, Mich., from the 1930's until 1947.
        ''It wasn't really until the 1930's that modernism took a really strong hold on furniture design'' in the United States, said Mr. Beebe, who is a master's degree candidate at the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts and is writing his thesis on the Lloyd company. He said that designs done for the company by Mr. Bach and a colleague, Kem Weber, are ''icons for their period'' in furniture design, which was 1930's modernism, including more and more streamlining as time passed.
        ''They are fantastic pieces,'' Mr. Beebe said. ''You see the marriage of design and industry; you see two people who were very proficient in the design rhetoric for their time producing work for a company which was highly significant in developing the tubular-steel manufacturing technology that made this furniture affordable.''
        Mr. Bach's style in this work was ''definitely not as angular as the Bauhaus School,'' he added, but ''showed the transition between the Bauhaus and the streamlined modern style.''
        Describing the table at the Yale gallery, David Barquist, a curator there, wrote in a 1992 book: ''This table exemplifies the overall rectilinearity of Bach's designs'' for the Lloyd company.
        Mr. Bach's drawings and papers  are in the collections of the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum.
        His work also has been included in exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art and elsewhere, and in a one-man show at the Stamford Museum in Connecticut.
        He did designs for General Electric, the carpet makers Bigelow-Sanford, the metalsmiths Keystone Silver, the linen makers Pacific Mills and other clients. He also painted.
        Mr. Bach was a former president of the American Designers Institute. His honors included a medal from the Industrial Designers Institute and a design award from the Fifth Avenue Association.
        He was born in Magdeburg, Germany, grew up in Munich and studied in Berlin.
        Mr. Bach, who lived for years in Connecticut, is survived by his wife, the former Anita Stewart; two sons, Alfons S., and Alexander S., both of Pensacola; two daughters from an earlier marriage that ended in divorce, Florence M. Bach of Ottawa  and Betsey G. Gooder of Franklin, N.C.; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Anita and Alfons Bach honeymooned in Hawaii, where they bought four 17th-century sliding-door panels that once belonged to a Kyoto Zen temple. In 1989 they sold the panels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mrs. Bach said, ''We wanted them to be someplace where they could be seen and taken care of.''
      