
        Leo Castelli, the New York art dealer who played an extraordinary role in shaping contemporary American art and fostering international acceptance of painters like Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Roy Lichtenstein and Frank Stella, died on Saturday night at his Manhattan home. He was 91.
        Mr. Castelli emerged as one of the most influential American art dealers of the century in the late 1950's, when Abstract Expressionism began to ebb, and for decades helped develop and promote the Pop, Minimal, Conceptual and Neo-Expressionist movements. He gave Mr. Johns, Mr. Stella and Mr. Lichtenstein their first one-man shows and brought attention to Andy Warhol, Ellsworth Kelly, Cy Twombley, Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Joseph Kosuth and Richard Serra among others.
        Mr. Castelli stood out in the history of American art and in the history of American art dealing for two quite different reasons. First, in his choice of artists he never looked back. If he was not there first, he did not bother to begin. In the case of the great masters of modernism -- Matisse and Picasso, for instance -- he never thought of dealing in them. Not only were they out of reach, they were also yesterday, and he wanted today.
        When he came to New York as a refugee from Europe during World War II and was on the fringes of the art world, he happened to have access more than once to paintings by the pioneer Russian abstractionist Wassily Kandinsky. Sometimes he sold the Kandinsky paintings privately, but it never occurred to him to show them as a dealer in a gallery.
        Similarly, at the end of World War II he was a close friend of Willem de Kooning, and they spent summers together in the Hamptons. But it never crossed Mr. Castelli's mind to show de Kooning's work. When he finally became a gallery dealer, he lived entirely for artists whom he had fostered from their beginnings.
        The second reason for his special place in the trade was that he convinced Europeans that the new American art of the 1960's was of the highest international importance. Nothing like that had happened before. Mr. Castelli was entirely and unmistakably European, and he knew how to overcome European doubts and hesitations in the context of the new American art. It also helped that he was not a brash young boy but a man of the world who spoke several European languages perfectly and was almost 50 before he opened his New York gallery in 1957.
        Leo Castelli the cosmopolitan esthete chose the artists (sometimes with a little help from friends). But it was Leo Castelli the diplomat who wooed and won curators and collectors, both in the United States and in Europe. The decisive moment was probably in 1964, when a painter he had championed, Mr. Rauschenberg, became the first American to win the major award of the Venice Biennale, the International Grand Prize for Painting.
        After that, the balance of prestige between American and European art was never quite the same again. Museums in Britain, France, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands began to collect contemporary American art, not because it was ''better'' but because it was different in a provocative and, in the end, a deeply rewarding way.
        In the temporary exhibitions of recent art from all over the world that flowered in Europe throughout the 1960's and 70's, the same phenomenon presented itself. There were those who saw it as an attempt to steal the idea of modern art from Europe. But art has its own ways of righting the balance, and over the next 20 years and more Mr. Castelli showed Yves Klein from France, Jan Dibbets from the Netherlands and Bernt and Hille Brecher and Hanne Darboven from Germany, among other Europeans.
        An Intimate Approach To Selling Art
        To a degree now rarely equaled, Mr. Castelli was an individual trader. Other dealers went in for megadeals, megamergers and megarelocations. Multinational empires, formal or informal, lasting or short-lived, came into being. Mr. Castelli preferred to deal one on one and whenever possible with people he knew.
        Where other dealers operated in private behind closed doors, Mr. Castelli, at 420 West Broadway in SoHo, was always on view, though behind glass. (One person likened the scene to an airline ticket counter at which even the casual visitor was well received.) If there was the possibility of an agreeable encounter at his gallery, Mr. Castelli seized it, whether or not any business would result. He behaved as if business were a subdepartment of sociability.
        He never played in what is known as the second market, in which coveted works of art are bought and resold at very high prices and without reference to the gallery that sold them in the first place. If others made millions with paintings on which he had made thousands, that was the way of the world, and he did not complain.
        Mr. Castelli also pioneered a stipend system that was unknown in New York when he opened his gallery. He put his artists on a payroll whether or not their work sold. For this and other reasons, desertions were initially rare among his artists.
        When Mr. Castelli discovered Mr. Serra in 1967, for example, he offered him a guarantee of three years of monthly payments even though he did not expect to sell any of the unknown sculptor's lead-plate work in that time. ''I never expected to find anyone willing to support experimental work,'' Mr. Serra said. ''It was like getting a Rockefeller grant.''
        In choosing his artists, Mr. Castelli put his natural conviviality to work. As he once said to Calvin Tomkins of The New Yorker: ''You have to have a good eye, but also a good ear. There's no other way if you want to make a good choice. You hear things, feel vibrations, gauge reactions. You spot movements emerging, and you try to pick the best practitioners.''
        Mr. Castelli was well able to spot them. Sometimes he was equally well able to keep them. Mr. Johns said some years ago, ''I'm very grateful that I haven't had to work with any other dealer.'' Anniversaries were remembered in the gallery, as shown by publications devoted to James Rosenquist, after 30 years, and more recently to Bruce Nauman, after 25 years. In that sense the mammoth retrospective of Jasper Johns at the Museum of Modern Art in 1996 was the apogee of Mr. Castelli's career. There had never been a dealer quite like him, and in the changed circumstances of today there is unlikely ever to be anyone like him again.
        Mr. Castelli, whose name was originally Leo Krauss, was born on Sept. 4, 1907, in Trieste, which was then a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. His father was Ernest Krauss, a Hungarian by birth, who had gone to Trieste as a young man and married into the Castelli family, which had long been established there. When the city became Italian in 1919, the entire family took the name Castelli.
        Mr. Castelli's father rose high in a local bank, and the family lived well. After World War I, which they spent in Vienna (where Leo Castelli learned perfect German), they returned to Trieste. To grow up in affluent circles in Trieste was to become familiar with the subtleties of four or five European languages. Leo Castelli never lost a magical fluency that allowed him to move from one culture to another without missing a beat.
        Summers in Trieste were a matter of carefree white-flanneled days in big gardens behind high walls. Young Leo, though slight, skied and climbed mountains; he also read new novels in several languages and flirted.
        After earning a law degree at the University of Milan in 1924, he returned to Trieste, where his father got him a job with an insurance company. Business bored him. But in 1932, to please his ever-indulgent father, he went to work for an insurance company in Bucharest. While there he fell in love with Ileana Schapira, the 17-year-old daughter of one of the richest men in Romania. After their marriage, his father-in-law saw to it that he worked, but not too hard, in banking. He also helped the young Castelli to be transferred in 1935 to the Banca d'Italia in Paris. The couple had a daughter.
        Once in Paris, and thanks in part to his wife's exceptional flair, Mr. Castelli became more and more involved with the art world. An architect and decorator friend, Rene Drouin, suggested that they open a gallery in the Place Vendome, next to the Ritz. The gallery combined modern furniture and decoration handled by Mr. Drouin and art by second-generation Surrealists and neo-Romantics handled by Mr. Castelli.
        The site was ideal, but the timing was not. The gallery had hardly opened when World War II broke out. The Castellis made a leisurely exit in the general direction of New York, where Mihail Schapira, Ileana's father, was establishing a comfortable bridgehead. In March 1941 they arrived in New York by way of Marrakesh, Tangier, Algeciras, Vigo and Havana with a long-haired dachshund and their daughter's English nanny.
        A Nation's Reward For Military Service
        In 1943 Mr. Castelli joined the United States Army and was sent for training in the field artillery. Transferred to an intelligence unit, he was trained for service behind enemy lines in France. After the liberation of France, he was sent to Bucharest as an interpreter for the Allied commission that controlled the city. As a result of Mr. Castelli's military service, he was given American citizenship.
        After Mr. Castelli returned to New York, the Castellis were introduced to a totally different art world in which they instantly made themselves felt. They had money, they had flair and they were fun.
        Though often pressed to open a gallery, Mr. Castelli was not in a hurry. He did not want to work with the Abstract Expressionists, then dominant in the galleries, though many of them were his friends. He did not want to work with the great European artists, all of whom were spoken for. He wanted to be first with artists almost nobody knew.
        Biding his time, he had a joint exhibition with the Sidney Janis Gallery in the fall of 1950. His role was to show current Parisian abstract painting in company with the New York Abstract Expressionists, many of whom were represented by Sidney Janis. But mostly, if he dealt, it was privately, working out of his apartment, as he did with the large group of paintings by Kandinsky.
        Eventually he went public on his own, in a round-fronted brownstone owned by Schapira at 4 East 77th Street in Manhattan, where he and his family lived. It was essentially a private place, untransformed.
        In 1954 he saw Mr. Rauschenberg's work for the first time. And it was while visiting Mr. Rauschenberg's studio shortly thereafter that he was taken to call on Mr. Johns, who lived in the same building. After many years of being badgered by interviewers for a firsthand account of that famous encounter, he sometimes began to sound, in the words of a close friend, ''like a wind-up toy.'' He once likened the visit to walking into the tomb of Tutankhamen and seeing the treasures there.
        From 1958 on Mr. Rauschenberg and Mr. Johns gave a tremendous charge of energy to the Leo Castelli Gallery. In 1960 Mr. Stella and Mr. Twombly reinforced the case for the gallery as the place in New York most worth visiting. Mr. Johns's flag paintings, Mr. Rauschenberg's collages and Mr. Stella's striped canvases not only signaled that Abstract Expressionism was giving way to a new esthetic but also quickly made Mr. Castelli and his principal assistant, Ivan Karp, art world stars with a reputation for discovering talent.
        ''When I first saw the work of Johns and Stella, I was bowled over,'' Mr. Castelli told an interviewer in 1984. ''I just felt sheer, pure enthusiasm. And then you get feedback from a mysterious consensus out there that you are right. Then, of course, you intensify your push and drive. Anyone can discover an artist, but to make him what he is, give him importance, that's really discovery.''
        Mr. Castelli's next group of stars -- Lichtenstein,  Warhol, Claes Oldenburg and Mr. Rosenquist -- attracted unheard of public interest, particularly when his gallery exhibited Lichtenstein's fanciful takeoffs on comic strips and Warhol's paintings of consumer icons like Campbell's soup cans and Coca-Cola bottles.
        The dealer's identification with Pop Art also made him a lightning rod for criticism. When some critics chided him for promoting these artists and denounced him for heralding a movement they felt inferior to Abstract Expressionism, he replied in a 1966 interview that painting was ''what artists make of it.'' ''One does not have to like it, but one cannot discard it,'' he continued. ''One can lament a certain fashion, but one . . . just cannot say: 'This is not art, it will go away.' ''
        ''There are those unsuccessful Abstract Expressionists who accuse me of killing them; they blame me for their funerals,'' he said. ''But they were dead already. I just helped remove the bodies.''
        The Castelli Gallery continued to chart the course of contemporary art with exhibitions by his ever growing number of artists. They included Ellsworth Kelly, Donald Judd, Robert Morris, Dan Flavin, Bruce Nauman, Richard Serra and Joseph Kosuth.
        The gallery's move to 420 West Broadway in 1971 was a crucial moment in the emergence of SoHo as the headquarters of groundbreaking art in New York. Another such moment was when Mr. Castelli acquired an additional, very large space on Greene Street and kept it for some years. This proved that virtually nothing could be too large to show in SoHo. Other dealers soon took the hint, and when the galleries began to move toward Chelsea, colossal spaces became an everyday matter.
        In his later years Mr. Castelli did not appear to sell many pictures. He would give work to other dealers to sell on terms mutually agreed to, but it was not in his nature to go out and hustle. Nor did he appear to have gone small or quiet. ''It was by being passive,'' someone said, ''that he retained an active profile.''
        When interviewed in 1994 by the cultural critic Suzi Gablik, he was quite specific about his point of view. ''I just give my shows,'' he said, ''and try to make everybody aware that they are there, through publications and so on. But then if people don't come, well, it's too bad. I can't really be on the phone all the time to find clients. Sometimes I feel very frustrated about it, but it's not in my nature to be someone who runs after people.''
        Giving a Museum A Modern Icon
        In 1988, when there were no tax deductions for gifts to museums, Mr. Castelli gave one of the icons of postwar American art, Mr. Rauschenberg's 1955 ''Bed,'' to the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Castelli said he had given the work, then valued at about $10 million, ''in repayment of a debt of gratitude I owe the museum and its founding director, Alfred Barr, for having been my great mentors.''
        ''Bed'' was made by Mr. Rauschenberg when he was dealing with found objects, often picked up from the street. Living in a $15-a-month loft on Fulton Street and unable to afford canvas, he was looking for a surface to paint on. One day he took the quilt from his bed, stretched it like a piece of canvas, and then to ''neutralize'' the quilt's bold pattern added his white pillow and proceeded to daub the whole with paint.
        Mr. Castelli bought the work for $1,200 from the first Rauschenberg show at his gallery in 1958. ''Very few people were buying Rauschenbergs at that time, and for me it was logical to buy a painting that I so admired,'' he said. ''As a matter of fact, it was important in my decision to give Rauschenberg a show.''
        Mr. Rauschenberg, who has been known to tongue-lash collectors for making high profits on his work, said: ''I'm very proud of Leo for giving it to the museum. I don't like masterpieces having one-night stands in collectors' homes between auctions.''
        Mr. Castelli and his wife were divorced a few years after the opening of their gallery. She then married Michel Sonnabend and in 1962 started her own gallery, the Sonnabend, with branches in Paris and SoHo. She and her former husband were friends and partners in other ventures.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Castelli married Antoinette (Toiny) Fraissex du Bost. In 1969 she opened Castelli Graphics, a separate gallery for prints and graphics. She died in 1987.
        Late in life Mr. Castelli married a young Italian art critic, Barbara Bertozzi. With her active participation, he opened a new gallery on East 79th Street in Manhattan. The inaugural show was of monotypes by Mr. Johns.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his  daughter, Nina Sundell, and a son, Jean-Christophe, of New York, from his marriage to Ms. Fraissex du Bost.
        In his 86th year Mr. Castelli was delighted to mount a major exhibition of Mr. Nauman, whom he regarded as ''really the last groundbreaking artist.''
        ''I am in the category, myself,'' he had said, ''of having always dealt with art because of its groundbreaking importance. As far as the selling of that art is concerned, the devil can take the hindmost.''
      