
        Wilbert Jean Oliver, whose 1973 Federal lawsuit had the practical effect of forcing funeral homes throughout the nation to provide equal services to blacks and whites, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Marksville, La. He was 89 and lived in Mansura, La.
        Mr. Oliver sued the Escude Funeral Home in Mansura, La., where he lived all his life, for discrimination after it refused to provide visitation for his deceased mother, Martha Pierre Oliver, because she was black.
        Lawyers from the Southern Poverty Law Center, a civil rights organization in Montgomery, Ala., advanced his case in Federal court, charging that the Escude Funeral Home and Hixson Brothers Funeral Home in Avoyelles Parish either refused to deal with blacks or offered ''distinctly inferior services'' for the same prices that they charged whites.
        Mr. Oliver won his case.
        Morris Dees, the chief trial counsel of the Southern Poverty Law Center and a member of the original team of lawyers that handled the case, said, ''Although the case was not binding because it never reached the Supreme Court, it served notice to funeral homes, and even cemeteries and other businesses, that if they practiced discrimination against blacks they could be violating Federal law.''
        Mr. Dees said that after the ruling was announced his organization heard reports from across the country that previously segregated funeral homes had begun to offer a full line of service to black clients.
        ''Nevertheless,'' he said, ''black funeral homes continue to prosper in the South as a matter of choice.''
        Gaon Escude, a spokesman for the funeral home, said his grandfather, who operated the home at the time of the lawsuit, provided all services, including embalming, but stopped at offering visitation to blacks ''because, if he did, he thought he'd lose business from whites.''
        He added that his grandfather's competitors at the time would not accept any black clients at all.
        The Rev. August Thompson, who was Mr. Oliver's priest when his mother died, said Mr. Oliver had been distraught when he was told that the funeral home would not permit visitation for his mother.
        ''He lived in what used to be called a shotgun house because it was so flimsy that if you fired a shotgun at the house it would go right through it,'' Father Thompson said. ''He wanted a better place for visitation for his mother.''
        After the Escude Funeral Home rejected his request, Mr. Oliver, a salesman for John Deere, arranged to hold the wake in what was described in his lawsuit as ''a run-down storage building on the grounds of Our Lady of Prompt Succor Church.''
        Mr. Oliver is survived by his wife, Catherine Carmouche Oliver of Mansura; two sons, Wilbert Jr. of Chicago and Carroll of Kingwood, Tex.; a foster son, Francis Sarpy of Charleston, S.C.; six daughters, Catherine Demouy and Jacqueline Batiste of Mansura, Sister Laurita Oliver of New Orleans, Eloise Lee of DeRidder, La., Geraldine Barbin of Marksville and Hattie Turner of Alexandria, La.; 39 grandchildren; 72 great-grandchildren, and 13 great-great-grandchildren.
        ''He was just an ordinary man, one of the common people and not a crusader,'' Father Thompson said. ''Life was a little harder for him because he had lost his left arm in an accident, but none of the local lawyers would touch the case. I directed him to Julian Bond, who was then president of the Southern Poverty Law Center. Bond took the case and within a month it was decided.''
      