
        Norman Wexler, a playwright and screenwriter whose credits included the scripts for ''Saturday Night Fever'' and ''Serpico,'' died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Jane Kepner, a friend.
        Raised in Detroit in a blue-collar family, Mr. Wexler had a knack for writing characters with a little dirt under their fingernails. In ''Serpico,'' he helped create a vivid biographical portrait of an undercover New York City detective, Frank Serpico, whose testimony about police corruption made him a hero to the public and a pariah to many in the police force. The script, which Mr. Wexler wrote with Waldo Salt, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1973.
        Four years later, Mr. Wexler would win more plaudits for his screenplay for ''Saturday Night Fever,'' the story of a Brooklyn paint store clerk, Tony Manero, whose workaday life falls away on the dance floor. The movie, released in 1977, made a film star of a young John Travolta, and earned tens of millions of dollars at the box office.
        After attending Harvard College, Mr. Wexler moved to New York in 1951 to work in advertising. But by the mid-1960's, he was writing plays, several of which were produced in New York and at regional theaters.
        His film career took off in 1970, with ''Joe,'' a drama starring Peter Boyle as an unstable ruffian who forms an awkward alliance with an upper-class businessman.
        The movie, directed by John G. Avildsen, was a hit with audiences, and while its reviews were mixed, many critics paid credit to Mr. Wexler's gritty dialogue and plot. Writing in The New York Times, Howard Thompson called Mr. Wexler's scenario ''uncannily knowing and observant in staking out and stalking two human species.'' It earned Mr. Wexler another Oscar nomination.
        Mr. Wexler's life was shadowed by mental illness. Diagnosed as manic depressive, he was arrested and jailed in 1972 after making threats against President Richard Nixon while on a flight from New York to San Francisco.
        Mr. Wexler's career also faltered somewhat as he grew older. In the early 1980's, he was hired by Mr. Travolta to write ''Stayin' Alive,'' a sequel to ''Saturday Night Fever.'' He wound up sharing writing credit with Sylvester Stallone, who also directed the film, but it was a critical and commercial disappointment. ''Raw Deal,'' a 1986 Arnold Schwarzenegger vehicle that Mr. Wexler wrote with Gary M. Devore, was also unsuccessful. He stayed busy, though; in 1996, his last play, a comedy called ''Forgive Me, Forgive Me Not,'' was produced at a theater in Los Angeles.
        A longtime resident of Greenwich, Conn., Mr. Wexler moved to Washington two years ago. He is survived by a sister, Janet Rosen, of Detroit, and two daughters, Merin and Erica, both of New York.
      