
        David Graham, who as an Oxford undergraduate in 1933 played a key role in the student debating society's much-denounced and long-remembered vote against fighting for ''King and Country,'' died on Aug. 12. He was 87.
        The death of Mr. Graham, who worked later for the British Broadcasting Corporation, was reported in yesterday's Daily Telegraph and Wednesday's Times of London. Where he died and where he resided at the time of his death were not immediately disclosed.
        He was the librarian of the debating society, the prestigious Oxford Union. He drafted and seconded a motion affirming ''that this House will in no circumstances fight for its King and Country.''
        The motion was passed by a vote of 275 to 173 on Feb. 9, 1933 -- soon after Hitler came to power in Germany on Jan. 30.
        As a University of Chicago historian, Charles Loch Mowat, wrote two decades later: ''The resolution received world-wide notice out of all proportion to its importance, as a sign of Britain's pacifism and decadence which was an encouragement to dictators abroad.''
        And a University of Toronto historian, T. O. Lloyd, observed tolerantly in a 1970 book: 'There was probably a considerable amount of pacifist feeling behind this vote, for opposition to all war was still strong'' in the wake of World War I.
        At the time of the motion, The Manchester Guardian argued similarly that ''the obvious meaning of this resolution'' was ''youth's deep disgust with the way in which past wars 'For King and Country' have been made, and in which they suspect, future wars may be made: disgust at the national hypocrisy which can fling over the timidities and follies of politicans, over base greeds and commercial jealousies and jobbery, the cloak of an emotional symbol they do not deserve.''
        But in the Britain of 1933, the motion also created fury and indignation, notably on the Oxford campus, and elsewhere in the press.
        A swarm of irate Oxford undergraduates stormed into the Union and ripped the minutes of the ''King and Country'' debate -- which had included some spirited opposition eloquence -- out of the Union's minutes-book. But Mr. Graham managed to write the ''King and Country'' minutes all over again, drawing on his memory.
        For its part, The Daily Express thundered at the time: ''There is no question but that the woozy-minded Communists, the practical jokers, and the sexual indeterminates of Oxford have scored a great success in the publicity that has followed their victory at the Oxford Union.'' The Daily Telegraph of that day called on ''decently minded young Oxford'' to nullify the motion. The Times of London said the motion was the work of ''a little clique of cranks.''
        Several years later, an Oxford-educated author, Keith Briant, said in a 1938 book about his alma mater: ''Thanks to the publicity which the Press gave to this motion, it was remembered and used for propaganda purposes in Italy at the time of the Abyssinian War. A leading Italian newspaper bolstered the courage of its readers by declaring that they need have no fear of British action as their young men had refused to fight.''
        ''What was happening in Oxford?'' Mr. Briant went on. ''What was causing young men to express such violent disgust with their own country and its Government? Oxford was not alone in its attitude, although it may have given it earlier expression. All over the country young men and women were growing restless at the failure of the generation which was responsible for the death of their fathers, to cope with the vital problems of the present time.''
        And yesterday's Daily Telegraph, in its obituary of Mr. Graham, said: ''Contrary to what many in Britain believed, there has never been a shred of evidence that Hitler was encouraged by the 'King and Country' motion, or even that he knew about it. He was most certainly aware, however, of the British Establishment's lack of appetite for facing up to his regime.''
        Yesterday's Telegraph also defended Mr. Graham as ''no pacifist but an independent spirit fond of controversy.''
        But The Times of London recalled: ''He also admitted to being fed up with all the 'Rupert Brookery.' '' That was a reference to the patriotic British World War I poet, Rupert Brooke (1887-1915). ''And the motion reflected a reaction to the First World War, in which so many had suffered for their 'King and Country.' ''
        Mr. Graham was born in British India, the son of Sir Lancelot Graham, a senior civil servant who became the first Governor of Sind province. David Graham went on to Britain, where he had aunts, and to graduate from the British public school Rugby, where he was a student leader. Then he spent time in Germany becoming fluent in German.
        Later, after graduating from Oxford -- where he was in Balliol College and tried in vain to become the Union's president -- he joined the BBC's staff, where his first assignments included writing a radio adaption of Tolstoy's novel ''War and Peace.'' In August 1939, the month before Hitler's Germany touched off World War II in Europe by invading Poland, the BBC assigned him to its German section. He was involved in its German-language broadcasts to Germany and to German-occupied France all through the war.
        And it is said that a substantial number of his fellow Oxford students who had voted in favor of the ''King and Country'' motion went on, nonetheless, to fight for King and Country and against the Axis powers in World War II.
        In later years, during the cold war, Mr. Graham was an executive of the BBC's Russian-language programming and later deputy chief of the BBC's whole East European Service. His last post before he retired from the BBC was chief of its Central Research Unit.
        In later years he was active in the Church of England and in the Liberal Party.
        He married Rosemary Harris in 1945 and she died in 1988.
        His survivors include a daughter and two sons..
      