
        Dr. Charles Davis Hollister, a marine geologist who expanded the knowledge of ocean bottom currents and deep sea storms, died on Monday in Wyoming on a family vacation. He was 63 and lived in Falmouth, Mass.
        A mountaineer, Dr. Hollister fell while climbing boulders on a hike  and sustained fatal head injuries, said the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, where he was corporate vice president and senior scientist in the geology and geophysics department.
        ''As a scientist he pioneered the field of deep sea dynamics and made us look at mud on the deep sea floor in a different way,'' said Dr. Robert B. Gagosian, the institute's director.
        Dr. Hollister was among the first oceanographers to realize that the deep sea floor was not at all tranquil as had long been assumed. He demonstrated that large swaths of it are swept by strong currents and benthic, or sea bottom, storms. He documented this in the high energy benthic boundary experiment, which he organized in the 1970's.
        Dr. Hollister used a vast piston coring system to bore into the sea floor and extract samples. One 100-foot core he took in the 1970's, called the super straw, produced the longest continuous record of ocean basin history -- 65 million years.
        He was also an expert on the potential disposal of radioactive waste under the seabed, and he led the American delegation negotiating with Russia over the monitoring of dumped radioactive material and ways to prevent its escape.
        Dr. Hollister's research took him around the world, and he was chief scientist on 21 of his nearly 30 research cruises for Woods Hole. He spent months on submarines in the Atlantic, Pacific, Arctic and Antarctic Oceans.
        Charles Hollister was born in Santa Barbara, Calif., and grew up on a family ranch that once covered 40,000 acres, making it one of the biggest cattle ranches in the state. He graduated from Oregon State University in 1960 and earned a Ph.D. in geology at Columbia University in 1966.
        By then he had been an oceanographer for the United States Geological Survey and a research assistant at Columbia's Lamont-Doherty Geological Observatory. He joined the staff in Woods Hole in 1967, was promoted to associate scientist in 1971 and to senior scientist in 1979. He also led its graduate program for a decade.
        Dr. Hollister wrote about 90 scientific papers and 6 books. In his corporate role he helped the institution raise money and worked with its governing board.
        He was an avid mountain climber, hunter, fisherman and alpine and cross-country skier. He had climbed most of the country's peaks, including Mount Rainier while he served in the Army and the Cascades and Sierras as a student. He took part in the first mountaineering expedition to Antarctica's Sentinel Range and scaled five of its six highest peaks, a feat that earned him the National Geographic Society's John Oliver La Gorce Medal.
        Dr. Hollister is survived by his wife, Jacqueline McEnroe Hollister; a daughter and a son from an earlier marriage, Robin J. Hall of Marshfield, Mass., and David Hollister of Seattle; a stepson, Andrew Suitor of Falmouth; three brothers, Lincoln S., of Princeton, N.J., David O., of Greenville, Calif., and C. Doyle, of Santa Barbara, and two granddaughters. His marriage to Jalien Green Hollister, of Charlestown, Mass., ended in divorce.
      