
        Raymond Vernon, who helped shape the postwar system of international trade as a Government official and influenced thinking about the global economy as a scholar, died on Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Heidi Vernon.
        Mr. Vernon was a member of the Marshall Plan team that guided the economic revival of Europe after World War II, and worked on the development of the International Monetary Fund and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. After serving in the Government in the Securities and Exchange Commission and the State Department for nearly two decades, he went to Harvard University in 1956 and never left.
        At Harvard, Mr. Vernon first led an ambitious three-year research project on the New York metropolitan region that was regarded as a pioneering work in urban studies -- the work was supported by the Ford Foundation and the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. Afterward, at the Harvard Business School and later at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, Mr. Vernon focused for decades on the study of the international economy -- especially the increasing role played by multinational corporations and the limits to governmental power.
        ''Ray Vernon was the father of globalization long before people used that term,'' said Daniel Yergin, an author and business consultant. ''His work has had a phenomenal effect on several generations of thinking about how the global economy works.''
        Mr. Vernon's books on these subjects -- including ''Sovereignty at Bay'' in 1973, ''Storm Over the Multinationals'' in 1977, and ''Beyond Globalism'' in 1989 -- were influential and often far-sighted.
        In ''The Commanding Heights,'' a 1998 best seller by Mr. Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw, the authors, recognizing the scholarly foundation laid by Mr. Vernon in the study of relations between Government and the global marketplace, wrote, ''It is impossible to write about these issues without acknowledging the profound intellectual impact that Prof. Raymond Vernon has had on them over the half-century.''
        Kim B. Clark, dean of the Harvard Business School, called Mr. Vernon ''one of the most influential scholars of his generation, a true pioneer in the study of multinational corporations and the international economy.''
        Born on Sept. 1, 1913, in New York City, Mr. Vernon was one of four children in a family of Jewish immigrants from Russia.
        His father, Hyman, drove a truck delivering seltzer water to restaurants and bars in the Bronx, and Mr. Vernon and his two brothers helped their father heft the crates of seltzer on and off the truck.
        Their family name was Visotsky, but the children changed it to Vernon, beginning with Raymond's older brother, Sidney. Recalling her uncle's explanation, Heidi Vernon said he changed his name to improve his chances of being accepted into medical school. All four of the siblings -- Sidney, Leo, Raymond and Corrine -- earned doctoral degrees.
        Mr. Vernon received a bachelor's degree from the City College of New York in 1933, and earned a Ph.D. in economics from Columbia University in 1941.
        At the S.E.C., where he worked from 1935 to 1946, Mr. Vernon handled various assignments from studying the behavior of floor traders and specialists on the New York Stock Exchange to planning securities enforcement programs.
        While at the State Department, he was one of the negotiators who brought Japan into the GATT trade system and helped secure nondiscriminatory treatment for Japanese exports.
        In the early 1950's, as acting director of the Office of Economic Defense and Trade Policy, he oversaw trade with the Soviet-bloc nations and encouraged their trade with non-Communist countries.
        Mr. Vernon's economic perspective, according to Mr. Yergin, who knew him for many years, was shaped by having grown up in the Depression and by his years at the S.E.C. ''He believed in markets, but he also saw the weaknesses -- where they can go wrong,'' Mr. Yergin said.
        In 1956, Mr. Vernon went to Harvard to head the three-year study of the New York metropolitan region. His urban studies project concluded with a measured though prescient projection -- continued growth and prosperity for the three-state region, but decline for broad swathes of the region's inner cities.
        Mr. Vernon began his research into multinational corporations in 1965. His early work anticipated that multinationals -- as efficiency-seeking enterprises -- would transfer labor-intensive work on standardized products to developing nations. In ''Storm Over the Multinationals'' he analyzed how the pragmatic decisions of increasingly global companies held a growing sway over economic forces once controlled by governments, like trade flows and levels of investment.
        Later, when European nations tried to combat the power of American multinationals by fostering the creation of state-owned ''national champion'' corporations, Mr. Vernon predicted early on that the tactic would prove to be poor policy.
        ''His view was that state-owned enterprises could not compete with the investor-owned multinationals, which are more flexible,'' said Robert Stobaugh, a professor emeritus at the Harvard Business School. ''His research became part of the foundation for the privatization push of the 1980's.''
        Short and wiry, Mr. Vernon was an athlete until cancer slowed him down last year. An avid oarsman, he could be seen daily at dawn on the Charles River in his single scull. He competed for decades in the annual Head of the Charles crewing competition. Icy winters did not cool his competitive zeal. In his 80's, in fact, he set a world record for his age group in one class of ''indoor sprints,'' rowing machines with odometers attached. He was a member of the Cambridge Boat Club for 40 years.
        ''One of the great sadnesses of his life,'' said his daughter, Heidi, ''was that he was not able to be on the river these last months.''
        Mr. Vernon's wife of 60 years, Josephine, died in 1995. Mr. Vernon is survived by his two brothers, Sidney and Leo, and his sister, Corinne; and by his two daughters, Heidi Vernon of Newton, Mass., and Susan Vernon Gerstenfeld, also of Newton, Mass., four grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Vernon, the renowned student of multinationals, was once employed by a multinational-in-the-making. In 1954 he went to work for Forrest Mars Sr., who built the Mars candy empire. Mr. Vernon was placed in charge of planning, finance and new products. He oversaw the development effort that led to chocolate-covered peanut M & M's.
        The new peanut variety was a success, and, in the candy industry, Mr. Vernon was called ''the man who put the crunch in M & M's.''
        Mr. Vernon's foray into the private sector was short-lived, since he went to Harvard after less than two years in the candy business. But he would always talk of his M & M exploits at family gatherings, impressing the younger members of the Vernon clan, recalled his daughter, Heidi. ''He told the grandchildren that he was the person who figured out how to get the letter M on each and every piece of candy,'' she said, ''and they'd all believe him.''
      