
        Patrick Rance, a crusader for traditional British farmhouse cheeses and the author of the authoritative ''Great British Cheese Book,'' died on Aug. 22. He was 81.
        From his small shop in Streatley, near Henley-on-Thames, Mr. Rance waged a determined and ultimately successful battle to raise public awareness of the traditional, raw-milk cheeses, produced in cylinders and wrapped in cloth.
        Alarmed at the rise of mass-market, industrially made cheddars, red Leicesters and Wensleydales that were being sealed in plastic and sold in supermarkets across Britain, he diligently sought out small, tradition-minded cheese makers and provided a showcase for their efforts at his little shop, where customers could buy dog food and shoelaces along with farmhouse cheddars, single Gloucesters, Swaledales and nearly 150 other cheeses.
        His life's passion culminated in ''The Great British Cheese Book,'' published in 1982. Widely praised, it led to a companion volume on French cheese, ''The French Cheese Book,'' published in 1989.
        Mr. Rance was born in Southend-on-Sea, where his father was a vicar, and grew up in Westcliff-on-Sea, where he was taken with his mother after his father's death in 1923. He attended Christ's Hospital, but told that he was not university material, enrolled at Sandhurst, the military academy, in 1936. Two years later he received a commission in the Northamptonshire Regiment.
        During World War II he served as adjutant of a battalion and rose to the rank of major. He took part in the Anzio landings and after the war did intelligence work in Vienna.
        After retiring from the army, he worked for the Conservative Central Office, where he helped start its public opinion research, but he and his new wife, Janet, nourished a peculiar ambition, to run a village shop. In 1954, the couple took over Wells Stores, which sold precisely three cheeses. By 1960 the number had swelled to 16 international cheeses, and by 1980 the shop was offering 150 cheeses, many of them the traditional British farmhouse cheeses that Mr. Rance had ferreted out on visits to farms all over Britain.
        In 1973, the national tourist board commissioned Mr. Rance to write an article on British cheese. His research so disturbed him that he decided to write a book in defense of traditional cheese. ''The hard cheeses of England and her firm-crusted blues are the finest in the world,'' he wrote. ''Apart from Stilton, they are also the least known.'' This held true even of Cheddar, which he called ''our most generous gift to humanity,'' because only one in 100 consumers ever bit into the real thing.
        In ''The Great British Cheese Book,'' Mr. Rance offered a region-by-region survey that traced the history of cheeses like Cheshire, Gloucester and Cheddar and the traditional way of making them. Each chapter included a list of farms still producing the old varieties.
        Mr. Rance brought high drama to the subject. His search for a genuine Blue Vinney, Dorset's greatest cheese, reads like a thriller, with Mr. Rance unmasking frauds, following threadlike leads to remote farmhouses, and slashing away with great energy at the enemies of cheese -- notably the Milk Marketing Board and the industrial-scale dairies, whose block cheeses, he believed, had all the flavor of plexiglass.
        With the publication of ''The Great British Cheese Book,'' which was hailed by food authorities like Elizabeth David and Jane Grigson, Mr. Rance, who presided over his shop wearing a monocle, became a national figure. He was Britain's leading expert on traditional cheese, the man who helped rescue such endangered species as Montgomery's cheddar, Keene's cheddar and Appleby's cheshire.
        In the 1980's, he and his wife bought a stone farmhouse in Fontvieille, Provence, where he wrote ''The French Cheese Book.''
        He is survived by seven children.
      