
        Marc A. Lustgarten, a principal architect of Cablevision's growth in cable television and programming for the past two decades and the chairman of its Madison Square Garden subsidiary since 1997, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, the company said.
        Mr. Lustgarten joined Cablevision in 1975 as assistant general counsel and quickly became instrumental in helping to transform what was then solely a Long Island cable television system into a broad-based entertainment and sports colossus.
        ''We were just starting sports then, and we had an arrangement with Roy Boe to telecast Islanders games,'' Charles F. Dolan, the founder and chairman of Cablevision, said, referring to the Islanders' owner at the time. ''I said, 'Marc, here's the deal, go make a contract with Roy.' He lost himself in that for a few weeks and did a great job.''
        Mr. Lustgarten was renowned for his ability to interpret Mr. Dolan's vision, which could be obscure or difficult to comprehend.
        ''He put the pieces together that allowed Cablevision to maneuver the course from a small suburban cable company to the most powerful media company in New York,'' said Tom Rogers, the chairman of NBC Cable.
        Mr. Lustgarten could be a gruff and abrupt executive, who sometimes played the tough cop to Mr. Dolan's understated good cop demeanor.
        Yet he would also ''go to bat for those who weren't in agreement with Chuck to let you know that he tried to soften up the boss for you,'' said Richard Aurelio, the former president of Time Warner's New York City Cable Group.
        As the president of what is now called Rainbow Media Holdings, Mr. Lustgarten helped oversee the creation of American Movie Classics; Bravo; News 12 Long Island, a local 24-hour news service, and the family of Sportschannel regional cable networks in New York, Boston and Cleveland.
        His deal making was central to Cablevision's recent leap into acquiring Madison Square Garden, Radio City Entertainment, The Wiz retail electronics chain and the Clearview Cinema movie theater chain.
        ''He was tough but fair, with an imaginative mind that found ways to put complicated things together and make them work as businesses,'' said Chase Carey, the chairman and chief executive officer of Fox Television.
        In 1997, Mr. Carey negotiated the $850 million deal with Mr. Lustgarten that merged the Fox/Liberty Networks' cable sports channels with Cablevision's sports networks to create the Fox Sports Net, a rival to ESPN.
        About the same time, Mr. Lustgarten was named chairman of Madison Square Garden, where he ''found his calling,'' Mr. Dolan said. He attended nearly every Knicks and Rangers game. ''He became emotionally involved in the games,'' Mr. Dolan said.
        Mr. Lustgarten, who graduated from Pace University and earned law degrees from New York Law School and New York University Law School, was a New York City high school English teacher and an associate corporation counsel for the city before joining Cablevision.
        He is survived by his wife, Marcia; two children, Andrew and Jessica, and his father, Irving.
      