
        C. Roland Christensen, an influential Harvard Business School professor who helped create the field of business strategy and was an authority on the use of the case method in teaching, died on Saturday. He was 80.
        He died at St. Thomas Hospital in Nashville from complications after open-heart surgery in June, according to the business school. He had lived in Nashville since 1997.
        A faculty member at the Harvard Business School for more than 40 years, Mr. Christensen was renowned for his ability to foster student discussion in class. ''He had a particular gift in engaging each person in the excitement of this inquiry,'' said Kenneth R. Andrews, who taught with Mr. Christensen at Harvard and is a professor emeritus at the business school.
        Serving as what one of his former students, Ian M. Cumming, described as an orchestra leader, Mr. Christensen would carefully watch the reaction of his students and then decide on whom to call to keep the discussion going among the 80 or so in the room.
        ''They were remarkably lively classes,'' recalled Mr. Cumming, who is now chairman of the Leucadia National Corporation. Only on the last day of his course on business policy would Mr. Christensen ask the class for permission to share his own thoughts on the topic, Mr. Cumming recalled.
        Beginning in the mid-1970's, Mr. Christensen worked to improve the quality of teaching throughout the university, offering seminars to faculty members and working with the medical school to introduce more discussion in its courses. In 1984, Mr. Christensen was named to a university professorship, the first member of the business school faculty to hold this university-wide position. He received the business school's distinguished service award in 1993.
        Along with Mr. Andrews, Mr. Christensen was a founder of the study of business strategy. While previous teaching had focused narrowly on business problems and possible solutions, this area served as a kind of ''practitioner's theory,'' according to Mr. Andrews. The intention was to look at the broad issues determining a company's future.
        Mr. Christensen wrote or helped write numerous case studies and books. He also served as a director of numerous companies, including the Cabot Corporation and Cooper Industries.
        Born in Tyler, Minn., Mr. Christensen grew up in Iowa City, where his father was a history professor at the University of Iowa. His mother taught at a small college in Des Moines.
        After graduating from the University of Iowa in 1941, Mr. Christensen earned an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1943. He then served as a captain in the Army's Quartermaster Corps for three years. Afterward, he returned to the business school to teach and continue his education. He earned his doctorate in commercial science in 1953 and was named a full professor in 1958. He retired in 1990, although he continued teaching and writing.
        Mr. Christensen is survived by his wife of more than 55 years, Dorothy; two sons, Philip R. of Pretoria, South Africa, and S. Eric of Palatka, Fla.; two daughters, Ann Christensen-Badger of Wilmette, Ill., and Joan Beck of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      