
        Prof. William Albert Niering, an internationally recognized expert on the ecology of wetlands and tidal marshes, died Monday in New London, where he had just addressed the incoming class of 2003 at Connecticut College. He was 75 and lived in Gales Ferry, Conn.
        He collapsed on the campus, outside Palmer Auditorium, and was pronounced dead on arrival at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital, the college said.
        Dr. Niering, the Lucretia L. Allyn Professor of Botany at the school and its longest-tenured faculty member, was one of the first small group of scientists to realize that wetlands play vital ecological roles and are not something to be drained and filled in. He contributed to the understanding of the role of marshes in flood drainage, water filtration and providing a spawning habitat for fish and other ocean life.
        His botanical research varied from the vegetation of Connecticut's remaining natural spaces to wetlands ecology, from the dynamics of the vegetation of Pacific atolls to the flora of the desert Southwest.
        He studied plant life from Arizona to the South Pacific. Just last month he returned from Costa Rica, where he signed an agreement for the college to plant 10,000 trees on 36 acres of pasture land to offset carbon dioxide emissions at the New London campus.
        ''Each of us must realize that he or she is part of a complex living system that would continue to function quite beautifully without us,'' he once noted, ''and that our challenge is therefore to work for a sustainable earth society that mimics the natural system all around us.''
        To that end, he devoted his attention to ecosystems close to home, particularly to the region's tidal wetlands. He wrote scores of papers on the living dynamics of those marshes and the need to preserve them.
        He was the author or co-author of six scientifically authoritative books on wetland ecology that are accessible to the general reader as well. Among them is ''Wetlands of North America'' (1991), which explores the main types of wetlands on the continent.
        He was also the co-author of a series of illustrated volumes on American wildflowers. Published by the Audubon Society, they remain in print.
        He was the director of the Connecticut College Arboretum from 1965 to 1988 and a founder of the state chapter of the Nature Conservancy.
        Born in Scotrun, Pa., William Niering graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1948. He received his Ph.D. in plant ecology at Rutgers University in 1952, the year he joined the faculty in New London as an assistant professor. He became a full professor in 1964.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Catherine Sublett Niering; a son, William S., of Griswold, Conn.; and two sisters, Annabelle Peechka of Pennsylvania and Bettina Buchmann of Connecticut.
        A great believer in joint faculty-student research, Dr. Niering could often be found in early morning tramping through a marsh with his disciples. He also was a judge for Inherit the Earth, a program created at the college to honor businesses and educators deemed friends of the environment.
        Dr. Niering, an authority on vegetation management by means of herbicides and controlled fires, shared his knowledge with lawmakers, government agencies and conservationist groups as well as with concerned individual landowners and utilities ready to shun the use of broad-spectrum herbicides beneath their power lines. He happily let wild plants multiply in the lawn around his own house.
      