
        Edward Charles Bassett, a widely praised architect whose work ranged from San Francisco's symphony hall to the United States Embassy in Moscow, died last Saturday in a San Francisco hospital. He was 77 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        The cause was a stroke he had suffered 10 days earlier at his home, said Craig W. Hartman, a partner in the San Francisco office of the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
        Mr. Bassett, known as Chuck, was the partner in charge of design in Skidmore's San Francisco office for 21 years until he retired in 1981.
        Allan Temko, the former architecture critic of The San Francisco Chronicle, said yesterday that for years Mr. Bassett (pronounced BASS-ett) ''was a leader in the efforts of younger modern architects to seek alternatives to the arid formulas of the International Style.''
        Mr. Temko described him as the best architect working in San Francisco in his time and ''a very inventive architect wherever he worked.'' His more far-flung projects included the Australian Mutual Provident Society complex in Melbourne, the Royal Dutch Shell headquarters in The Hague and the Mauna Kea Beach Hotel in Hawaii. He designed a city hall for Columbus, Ind. In 1989 it was described in The Courier-Journal of Louisville, Ky., as ''a not to be missed, imposing triangular building with a cantilevered front lintel.''
        Mr. Hartman said, ''A number of his buildings incorporate in them very traditional qualities of architecture, especially in the use of very traditional materials, but generally  reinterpreted in the modernist idiom.''
        Mr. Temko had particular praise for Mr. Bassett's design work early in his San Francisco years for the John Hancock Building, now called the Industrial Indemnity Building, in the city's financial district. He said the structure ''isn't a glass box, but it's contextual in the best sense: it respects the whole cityscape.''
        The elegant corporate headquarters of the Weyerhaeuser Company  near Tacoma, Wash., Mr. Temko called ''another beauty: it's so handsomely sited the building is like a dam overlooking a lake.''
        Mr. Bassett was born in Port Huron, Mich., served in the Army in World War II and was wounded on Okinawa. He received a bachelor's degree in architecture in 1949 from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in architecture in 1951 from the Cranbrook Academy of Art, in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., where he was influenced by the Finnish-American architect Eliel Saarinen.  From 1950 to 1955 Mr. Bassett worked with Saarinen's son, the architect Eero Saarinen, in Eero's office, also in Bloomfield Hills, before joining Skidmore in San Francisco.
        The honors Mr. Bassett received included the Brunner Prize in Architecture from the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the Maybeck Award from the California Council of the American Institute of Architects and numerous other awards for the designs of individual projects.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Doris West, known as Dory; four children, Christine Carlisle Bassett, Ann Bassett Wheelock, Joseph and Peter, all of California, and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Bassett and his wife were elementary schoolmates. ''I had never thought about marrying him,'' she  recalled after his death. ''But when I heard he was wounded, I just fell apart.''
      