
        The Rev. Walter Donald Kring, a Unitarian clergyman, author, ceramic artist and sleuth into the secrets of Herman Melville's private life, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Brookfield, Mass. He was 82.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        For 23 years, Mr. Kring was minister of All Souls Unitarian Church on Lexington Avenue at 80th Street in New York, retiring in 1978. He then led the Eliot Church in Natick, Mass., retiring from that position in 1997.
        ''In the Unitarian Universalist movement,'' said his successor at All Souls, the Rev. Forrest Church, ''few ministers over the past 60 years have served with such steadiness and distinction, both in terms of theological perceptiveness and institutional devotion.''
        Mr. Kring wrote a three-volume history of All Souls, which started as the First Congregational Church in 1819, the year Melville, a future member, was born a few blocks away. The first volume, ''Liberals Among the Orthodox: Unitarian Beginnings in New York City, 1819-1839'' (Beacon, 1974), also traced the denomination's local roots.
        Among his other books were ''Henry Whitney Bellows'' (1979) and ''Herman Melville's Religious Journey'' (Pentland, 1997).
        Mr. Kring did not start out as a scholar of Melville, the author of ''Moby-Dick.'' There had been rumors of a darker side to the writer's character, but scholars mostly set them aside as 20th-century gossip.
        But in 1975, Mr. Kring discovered evidence that touched off arguments that continue today: was Melville a wife beater and child abuser, and should the answer affect the way his writing is perceived now?
        Researching his biography of Henry Bellows, a 19th-century pastor at All Souls, Mr. Kring came upon some letters in Mr. Bellows's boxed papers that seemed to confirm the rumors.  One 1867 letter from Samuel Shaw, the half brother of Melville's wife,  Lizzie, even proposed that they fake a kidnapping to rescue her from Melville's sporadic violence.
        Mr. Kring then pursued Melville studies and provided insights into the writer's religious concerns, which had been discussed for a century without much previous indication that Melville might have had Unitarian rather than Calvinist leanings.
        The Melville Society elected Mr. Kring its first nonacademic president in 1979. He also was a past president of the Beacon Press of Boston, secretary of the American Unitarian Association and president of the Harvard Divinity School Alumni Association and the Unitarian-Universalist Historical Society.
        A native of Lakewood, Ohio, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Occidental College in Los Angeles in 1937 and from Harvard Divinity School in 1940. He served in combat as a Navy chaplain in the Pacific in World War II.
        Mr. Kring is survived by his wife,  Mary-Sage Mackay Kring; three daughters, Beverly C. Dobbin of Homosassa, Fla., Suzanne E. Shapiro of Tampa, Fla., and Katheryn Ann Topole of Apalachin, N.Y.; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
        Mr. Kring also created ceramic art. In 1958 the American Craftsmen's Council sent an example of his work to the Brussels World Fair, where it won a silver medal.
      