
        E. J. B. (Jim) Rose, who worked with the legendary British code breakers at Bletchley Park during World War II, died on May 20 in Sussex. He was 89.
        The advance knowledge of German plans, so laboriously deciphered at Bletchley Park, helped Britain when it was fighting alone against the Nazis, and Mr. Rose was head of the section that determined the military importance of the information they received.
        Mr. Rose later became a noted journalist, publisher and a ground-breaking surveyor of race relations in Great Britain, serving as director of the Survey of Race Relations. In 1969 he published ''Color and Citizenship,'' a report on the country's integration and immigration problems, with Nicholas Deakin.
        In the United States, however, Mr. Rose was best remembered for his exploits during World War II as an analyst of broken German military codes and as a liaison between British cryptologists and higher military authorities.
        Mr. Rose was at times critical of Allied intelligence reports. According to The Daily Telegraph, he and a colleague, Alan Pryce-Jones, visited the American general, Kenneth Strong, who was General Dwight D. Eisenhower's intelligence chief, three weeks before the costly German counterattack that became known as the Battle of the Bulge.
        ''Strong said the Germans were losing a division a day and wouldn't hold,'' Mr. Rose said. ''Alan was just a major, but he sat on the edge of the general's desk and said: 'My dear sir, if you believe that, you'll believe anything.' ''
        Eliot Joseph Benn Rose was born on June 7, 1909, to a well-off Jewish family. After attending Rugby and New College, Oxford, where he spent his spare timed working with Jewish refugees in the East End of London, Mr. Rose joined the Royal Air Force in 1939.
        Two years later, Mr. Rose moved to the Government's cryptology school at Bletchley Park, where he became adept at assessing the intelligence value of the code decrypted from the Luftwaffe, the German air force.
        He left the R.A.F. as a wing commander in 1948 and, after a brief flirtation with political office, joined the staff of The Observer, at the time an influential weekly Sunday newspaper, as literary editor. Among his reviewers was George Orwell.
        Three years later he became the founding director of the International Press Institute in Zurich, established with the backing of the Ford Foundation with the aim of maintaining a free press in the cold war era.
        Mr. Rose returned to England in 1963 when he was asked by Philip Mason, the director of the Institute of Race Relations in Great Britain, to serve as the chairman of the survey of race relations.
        Six years later, Mr. Rose became editorial director of Westminster Press, and in 1973 chairman of Penguin Books, where he oversaw the company's acquisition of Viking, a publisher in the United States.
        Mr. Rose was a consultant to Unicef and served on a government committee on education of ethnic minority children.
        He also was instrumental in the formation of the Runnymede Trust, a race research center, and served as its chairman from 1980 to 1990.
        For his work during World War II, he was awarded the Legion of Merit. For his work studying racism, he was appointed a Commander of the British Empire.
        Mr. Rose, who lived in Kent, is survived by his wife, Pamela; a son, Alan, and a daughter, Harriet.
      