
        Allen Funt, the creator and original host of ''Candid Camera,'' network television's kindhearted snare for the unwary, died on Sunday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 84.
        His family said the cause was  complications from a serious stroke suffered in 1993. Mr. Funt retired that year from the show's management, but the series continues on CBS on Friday evenings with his son Peter as producer and host.
        As creator, producer, director and editor of ''Candid Camera,'' Allen Funt has been described as part humorist, psychologist and con artist who honed his act to a fine art over four decades. His idea was to catch unsuspecting people ''in the act of being themselves,'' as he put it.
        He launched the show's first version, ''Candid Microphone,'' on the ABC Radio Network in 1947, using hidden microphones. The format, though embarrassing to many of his prey, proved highly popular. Mr. Funt considered himself a student of human nature rather than a practical joker.
        ''Candid Microphone'' moved to television in 1948 and was renamed ''Candid Camera'' a year later. The show achieved top ratings in network runs and syndication. Mr. Funt remained active in its management until his stroke and retirement to Pebble Beach, where he had been raising Hereford cattle and quarter horses on his 1,100-acre Big Sur ranch since the late 1970's.
        In a typical ''Candid Camera'' stunt, passers-by were startled by a hand reaching out of a sewer grating, angling for a hat just out of reach. In New York, many people just handed the hat to the hand and walked on.
        For the victims of talking mailboxes and the like, the tip-off was the exhortation: ''Smile! You're on 'Candid Camera,' '' set to cheery music.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Funt graduated from high school at 15 and studied at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn before earning a bachelor's degree in fine arts at Cornell University. He attended Columbia University and returned to Pratt for additional arts courses.
        He found a job in the art department of an advertising agency. He then worked as a copywriter and, after moving to the radio department, became an idea man who dreamed up gimmicks for radio programs.
        In World War II he used his radio experience in the Army Signal Corps. He learned to handle a portable wire recorder, predecessor of today's tape recorder, and began to experiment with concealment techniques.
        ''Candid Microphone'' had its premier on ABC shortly after he left the Army.
        On radio and television he disguised himself as a dentist, garage mechanic or whatever occupation suited his purpose. He then recorded the reaction of people to unusual, even weird situations.
        The program was a hit from 1960 to 1966 on CBS. It was followed by ''New Candid Camera,'' which ran for five years in the 1970's, as well as adult versions shown on cable television.
        Mr. Funt also produced specials of the genre for NBC and CBS. His son Peter joined him for the CBS specials in 1987.
        Besides Peter, his survivors include four other children, Patricia, John, Juliet and William; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Funt donated his recordings and films to Cornell and established a fellowship at Syracuse University for postgraduate studies in radio and television.
        He established a Laughter Therapy Foundation to provide seriously ill patients with his videocassettes. He also taught psychology at Monterey Peninsula College for some time.
        ''When people are smiling they are most receptive to almost anything you want to teach them,'' he said. ''I think that can be applied industrially, academically, technically and almost every other way.''
      