
        Alan Clark, the outrageously acerbic Conservative Member of Parliament whose witty, waspish political diaries by turns skewered his colleagues, gave vent to his splenetic opinions, and unashamedly celebrated his love of women other than his wife, died suddenly at home in Kent on Sunday, three months after an operation to remove a brain tumor, his family said today. He was 71.
        In a statement, the family said that Mr. Clark, a passionate animal-rights supporter, ''said he would like it to be stated that he regarded himself as having gone to join Tom and the other dogs.''
        In his years in Parliament -- from 1974 to 1992, and again from 1997 on -- Mr. Clark became known as one of its most charming and flamboyant members and as probably the most unreconstructed of its old-school conservatives. As a junior minister in Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's Government, he once gave a speech while drunk. He called his non-slim colleague Kenneth Clarke, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, ''that podgy life-insurance risk.''
        He named one of his dogs Eva Braun, after Hitler's mistress. He dismissed Michael Heseltine, the former deputy Prime Minister and a man who earned his own fortune, as ''someone who buys his own furniture.''
        And he spoke proudly of having inherited a 50-room, 17th-century castle and an estate worth tens of millions of pounds. He told a reporter how agonizing it was to have auctioned off some of his family's art treasures to pay taxes: ''You'll never know what it's like having to do without the Turner.''
        At the same time, Mr. Clark was a serious historian and the author of several well-received books of military history. They included ''The Donkeys,'' an attack on the failings of Britain's generals during World War I, which inspired the play and movie ''Oh What a Lovely War.'' Last year, he published a history of the Conservative Party from 1922 to 1997.
        In recent years, Mr. Clark said he regretted that his philandering and propensity for outrageous remarks had tended to overshadow his intellect and his achievements.
        ''Alan Clark was a doughty parliamentarian, an accomplished historian and a Tory to his fingertips,'' Baroness Thatcher said today. ''Politics is poorer and the world duller with his passing.''
        Alan Kenneth Mckenzie Clark was born into a family that had earned its considerable wealth in the 19th century, from a cotton thread business. His father was the art historian and life peer Kenneth Clark, the presenter of the BBC series ''Civilization.''
        Alan Clark was unimpressed by his privileged education: Eton, he said, ''was an early introduction to human cruelty, treachery and extreme physical hardship,'' while Christ Church, Oxford, was ''a waste of time and petrol.''
        After an early career in the Household Cavalry and the Royal Auxiliary Air Force, he became a lawyer and was elected to Parliament in 1974, representing Plymouth Sutton. He served in several midlevel posts in the Thatcher Government.
        He never advanced to the Cabinet. He was perhaps hampered by his reckless tongue and by his sometimes overzealous promotion of the arms trade, which led him, among other things, to be accused of helping cover up British machine tool exporters' contributions to Saddam Hussein.
        But Mrs. Thatcher had a special place in her heart for him, with his saucy wit and roguish manner and let him get away with things that no one else would have dared to do. Quizzed by her once about his shoes, in a conversation in which she refused his request to introduce an animal-protection bill, he replied that they were made of leather.
        ''I am sure, Prime Minister, you would not want to see your ministers walking around in plastic footwear,'' he said.
        Mr. Clark spoke of the Prime Minister with awe, calling her ''a force of nature'' and referring to her as ''the Lady'' in his celebrated, take-no-prisoners book, ''Mrs. Thatcher's Minister: The Private Diaries of Alan Clark.''
        The same could not be said of many of the women with whom Mr. Clark came into contact. His wife, Jane, said he took a third person along on their honeymoon -- his girlfriend.
        The diaries are full of accounts of various crushes and conquests, including, most famously, a mother and two daughters whom he said he had seduced. The woman's husband, Judge James Harkess, sold the story, from his perspective, to The News of the World, whereupon Mrs. Clark said, ''If you bed people of below-stairs classes, they go to the papers, don't they?''
        Of Mrs. Clark, who married Mr. Clark when she was 16 and he was 30,  one newspaper pointed out that ''her name rarely appears in the press without the prefix 'long-suffering.' '' And indeed she seems to have made peace with her husband's philandering, treating him as a wayward child.
        ''You must remember,'' a friend once said to her, ''that Al is 65 going on 25.''
        ''Mmm,'' Mrs. Clark is said to have replied, ''sometimes I think it's 65 going on 12.'' She survives him, as do two sons.
        Being boring, and being bored, Mr. Clark felt, were perhaps the worst things of all.
        ''In common with many brilliantly clever people, Alan's attention span is woefully short,'' Mr. Clark's younger brother, Colin, once said. ''I remember an occasion when he asked all the most amusing people he knew to a dinner party.
        ''Halfway through, he suddenly announced: 'I'm bored. If this is the best you can do, I'm going to bed.' And he took a large glass of milk and vanished upstairs, not to be seen for the rest of the evening.''
      