
        Dr. Waldo Cohn, a biochemist involved in building the world's first nuclear bomb and later a pioneer in using radioactive isotopes for medical research, died on Friday at a hospital in Oak Ridge, Tenn., where he lived. He was 89.
        During World War II, Dr. Cohn worked on the Manhattan Project in Oak Ridge and helped create plutonium for the bomb dropped on Hiroshima by using a process known as ion exchange chromatography in the splitting of uranium atoms.
        At the same time, he founded a symphony orchestra that is still performing today.
        After the war, the technique Dr. Cohn used to create plutonium was used to identify the components of the nucleic acids DNA and RNA, and it became crucial in understanding how genetic material transferred its information into protein molecules.
        ''Cohn's method enabled biochemists to clarify the structure as well as function of the RNA,'' said Dr. Alvin M. Weinberg, a friend and a former director of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. ''In those days, it was not clear what the functions of nucleic acids were.''
        Dr. Cohn was also the first scientist to organize, promote and distribute radioactive isotopes produced in nuclear reactors for use in medical research and treatment.
        ''The widespread use of these isotopes is perhaps the most important scientific byproduct of the Manhattan Project,'' Dr. Weinberg said.
        Waldo Cohn was born in San Francisco. He received bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of California at Berkeley. He was doing postdoctoral research at Harvard Medical School in 1943 when he joined the Manhattan Project at the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago. He moved to Oak Ridge the next year.
        After the atomic bomb was dropped, Dr. Cohn joined many other scientists in calling for the weapon to be controlled by the United Nations.
        In 1953, Dr. Cohn was elected chairman of the town advisory council in Oak Ridge. As chairman, he pushed through a resolution urging the Federal Government to include the town and its schools in an order desegregating military bases that had just been signed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        Opponents, however, mounted a drive to remove Dr. Cohn, and eventually he stepped down from the post of chairman but served out his two-year term on the council.
        From 1962 to 1997, he was editor of the annual series of monographs Progress in Nucleic Acid Research, and for many years he helped name new biochemicals. He also received two Guggenheim Fellowships and a Fulbright Research Scholarship. He wrote scores of scientific papers, and he was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Cohn retired from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in 1975 but continued as a consultant for several years. He is survived by his wife, Charmian; a brother, Roy, of Berkeley; two sons, Marcus, of Hood River, Ore., and Dunell, of St. Louis, and four grandsons.
        Dr. Cohn was also an amateur cellist who continued to perform until two years ago. Shortly after arriving in Oak Ridge, he founded Tennessee's oldest continuing symphony orchestra, the Oak Ridge Symphony, which is now 55 years old.
        Perhaps his best known musical accomplishment was the conducting of the symphony in its 1952 performance of the premiere of the first serious musical composition inspired by the atomic age: ''Overture to a Dedication of a Nuclear Reactor,'' composed by Arthur Roberts.
        The piece was dedicated to Dr. Cohn.
      