
        Buzz Kulik, a director whose made-for-television movie ''Brian's Song'' attained such popular success that it was released theatrically, died on Jan. 13 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was heart failure, his wife, Lorraine, said.
        Based on a true story about the  friendship between the Chicago Bears football players Gale Sayers and Brian Piccolo in the face of Piccolo's struggle with terminal cancer, ''Brian's Song'' was shown on ABC in December 1971. The film, which starred James Caan as Piccolo and Billy Dee Williams as Sayers, generated such enthusiasm that it was released to a movie house in Chicago the next month and nationally shortly thereafter.
        Its victory in the outstanding single program category at the Emmy Awards that year was greeted with cheers by the audience attending the Emmy ceremony at the Hollywood Palladium.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Kulik served in the Army during World War II and after his discharge worked in the mail room at J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency, where he noticed a posting seeking directors for a new medium called television.
        In 1947, Mr. Kulik began directing cameras at Yankee Stadium and eventually directed episodes of several television anthology series, including ''Lux Video Theater,'' ''Kraft Theater'' and ''Playhouse 90.'' In 1956 he moved to CBS, where he directed episodes of ''You Are There.''
        He received an Emmy nomination in 1962 for directing an episode of ''Dr. Kildare'' called ''Shining Image,'' and another for 1975's ''Babe,'' which starred Susan Clark as Babe Didrikson Zaharias, the Olympic gold medalist in track and field turned professional golfer, and won an Emmy for a 1970 Hallmark Hall of Fame production, ''A Storm in Summer,'' starring Peter Ustinov.
        Mr. Kulik also directed several feature films, including ''Shamus,'' with Burt Reynolds, and Steve McQueen's last movie, ''The Hunter.'' He is credited with directing the first television mini-series, ''Vanished,'' in the early 1970's. His other television films include ''Women of Valor,'' starring Susan Sarandon, and the mini-series ''Kill Me If You Can,'' with Alan Alda.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Glen, of Tarzana, Calif., and a daughter, Jennifer Perez of Studio City, Calif.
      