
        Dr. Ray E. Trussell, a former Commissioner of Hospitals in New York City and later the general director of Beth Israel Medical Center  in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Trussell was a passionate advocate of better health care for the poor and members of minority groups. He was also an early proponent of a nationalized health care system.
        As Hospitals Commissioner, Dr. Trussell's largest legacy may have been establishing the link between municipal hospitals and voluntary hospitals and medical schools, said his successor at Beth Israel, Dr. Robert G. Newman. ''Thirty-five years ago, when he did this, municipal hospitals had an impossible job of attracting quality medical and support staff,'' Dr. Newman said.
        Ray Elbert Trussell was born on Feb. 7, 1914, in Toledo, Iowa. He earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Iowa and an M.D. at the College of Medicine at the University of Iowa. He taught there as well, before serving during World War II as an epidemiologist with the Army in the Pacific. He won a Bronze Star  and rose to the rank of major.
        After his military discharge, he earned a master's degree in public health at Johns Hopkins University. In 1947, he worked with the State of New York as an epidemiologist and taught at Albany Medical College. In 1955, he became director of the Hunterdon Medical Center in New Jersey and a professor at New York University. In 1955, he joined the Columbia University faculty as associate dean of the College of Physicians and Surgeons and director of the School of Public Health and Administrative Medicine.
        In 1961, Mayor Robert F. Wagner asked him to run New York City's hospital system. As Commissioner of Hospitals, he improved ambulance service and expanded access to birth control. He also began a pilot project for a 24-hour suicide prevention service and improved children's psychiatric services.
        His major problem was the deteriorating quality of care in municipal hospitals. Besides establishing the link between municipal and voluntary hospitals, he also raised doctors' salaries. ''What is most distinctive is the forcefulness and uncompromising commitment throughout his career in many different positions to insure the very best care for everybody who needs it,'' Dr. Newman said.
        Though Dr. Trussell drew opposition throughout his career, Dr. Newman said, critics ''might have disagreed with his positions but recognized his absolute integrity.''
        Dr. Trussell returned to Columbia in 1965. Three years later, he became director of Beth Israel Medical Center, where he had helped establish one of the largest methadone maintenance programs in the nation. ''He basically guided what was a small, good community hospital into becoming a multifaceted academic medical center with a national reputation,'' Dr. Newman said. Dr. Trussell retired from Beth Israel in 1979.
        He was the author of ''Hunterdon Medical Center: The Story of One Approach to Rural Medical Care'' (1956) and, with Jack Elinson, ''Chronic Illness in a Rural Area'' (1959), both published by Harvard University Press.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Elizabeth D. Trussell; four children,  Margaret Hardy of Iowa City, Iowa, Ray E. Trussell Jr., of New Orleans,  Dr. Susan Stedman, of Paoli, Pa., and Joanne King of Albany; a stepdaughter, Liberty Rashad of Cambridge, Mass.; 12 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      