
        Eugene Ostroff, a former curator of photography at the Smithsonian Institution, an authority on the history of photography as a technology and an influential lecturer and writer on photographic conservation, died on Aug. 26 in Washington, where he lived. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter Gia Ostroff-Welsh.
        Mr. Ostroff joined the Smithsonian in 1960 and retired in 1994 from the National Museum of American History, of the Smithsonian's 16 museums. During his 34-year tenure, he had charge of a collection that charted the changes in photographic processes and techniques from the 1830's until the present.
        In this collection of more than 100,000 images and 10,000 pieces of equipment is the world's longest photo negative, 180 feet long and 5 inches wide. Alan Fern, who joined the prints and photographs division of the Library of Congress in 1961 and who is now director of the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, recalled that Mr. Ostroff had persuaded the Navy to provide the Smithsonian with a coast-to-coast aerial photograph of the United States, completed in one take and using the latest reconnaissance camera.
        Helena Wright, curator of the Smithsonian's graphic arts division and acting curator of Mr. Ostroff's photo history section, confirmed that the Navy gave the panoramic photograph and negative to the institution in 1965.
        So extensive was Mr. Ostroff's knowledge of photographic technology that he occasionally came up with unusual solutions for problems.  There is his method of ''restoring'' photographs by irradiation. ''If you irradiate a faded print,'' explained Grant Romer, director of conservation and museum studies at the George Eastman House in Rochester, ''it makes the silver radioactive. Put that in contact with film and you'll get a stronger image because you can reclaim a greater range of density.''
        Born in 1928 in New York City, Mr. Ostroff studied photography at Los Angeles City College. During much of the 1950's he worked as a photographer at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research and other research institutions. He also took courses in photographic engineering and technology at New York and Columbia Universities.
        Mr. Fern recalled that after Mr. Ostroff joined the Smithsonian, which began its photographic collection in the 1860's, ''his interest in collecting and interpreting and writing about photography supplanted his interest as a practicing photographer.''
        In addition to acquiring photographic equipment and artifacts, Mr. Ostroff assembled numerous exhibitions of works by noted photographers, including Imogen Cunningham, Elliott Erwitt, Arthur Rothstein and Robert Capa. In 1962 Mr. Ostroff gave Richard Avedon his first major solo show. And the Smithsonian circulated two Ostroff exhibitions, ''Western Views and Eastern Visions'' (1981) and ''Photographing the Frontier'' (1976).
        A 6,500-square-foot Hall of Photography, another Ostroff brainchild, opened at the museum in 1972. For about two decades it held a permanent exhibition of images and objects showing the history of photography.
        Besides writing for many technical and scientific journals, Mr. Ostroff was the editor of a book, ''Pioneers of Photography: Their Achievements in Science and Technology'' (1987). For some years he had been working on another book, ''What Made Photography Popular? Its Industry and Cultural History,'' which he completed last year.
        Mr. Ostroff's marriage to Caroline Lindt ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter Gia, of Jenkintown, Pa., he is survived by his wife, Elise; two other children from his first marriage, Mika Ostroff-Geiger of Austin, Tex., and Eric, of North Hollywood, Calif.; a sister, Harriet Bloom of Delray Beach, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      