
        Mcwayizeni Ka Dinizulu, the most senior Prince of the Zulu people of South Africa, died on Tuesday, the South African Government has announced. He was 67.
        His family said he had been sick for more than two years, The Associated Press reported.
        Mcwayizeni was a controversial figure in Zulu life. In 1990, he joined the African National Congress, which became South Africa's governing party in 1994 when South Africans voted for their first democratic Government.
        But his backing for the A.N.C. earned him the enmity of many of his fellow Zulus, and several attempts to kill him were reported over the years. Most Zulus are loyal to the Zulu nationalist Inkatha Freedom Party, led by Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi.
        For more than two decades, the Prince was a bitter opponent of Chief Buthelezi. And Inkatha and the A.N.C. have a history of bloody strife in what is now KwaZulu/Natal province in eastern South Africa, on the Indian Ocean.
        Lately the two parties' relations have improved, and the Prince was praised after his death by Deputy President Jacob Zuma, who said the Prince had played a key role in contributing to peace in KwaZulu-Natal.
        But after the new Government was formed, as Leonard Thompson, a historian of South Africa and retired Yale professor, wrote in the 1995 revised edition of his book, ''A History of South Africa'' (Yale University Press) Inkatha and the A.N.C. had some conflicting goals.
        Chief Buthelezi -- as president of Inkatha, which had become the majority party in KwaZulu/Natal, and as Minister of Home Affairs in the new Government -- ''contended for the maximum of devolution of power to the provinces within the new South Africa,'' as Professor Thompson put it, while the governing party ''showed that it was determined to whittle away the powers of the provinces.''
        The Prince was a close supporter of the Zulu monarch, King Goodwill Zwelithini, who was his nephew. Shortly before the 1994 elections, the King, at the urging of church leaders who feared an upsurge in interparty violence during the voting, urged ''each and every Zulu'' -- partisans of both Inkatha and the A.N.C. -- to put a stop to violence.
        The Prince acted as regent before the monarch's coronation in 1971, and it is said that he wielded great influence until the dawn of the new political era in 1994. He claimed the role of senior adviser to the King and was instrumental in the omission of Chief Buthelezi from a planned group of royal advisers.
        After the watershed events of 1994, the Prince was less of a presence in the Zulus' public life. Chief Buthelezi is still his party's leader and national Minister of Home Affairs.
        When the Prince's death became known with the Government's announcement on Thursday, the Zulu royal family put off a traditional, annual fete, known as the reed dance, which had been planned for Saturday. During the celebration, girls give the monarch reeds for use in his and his cattle's quarters.
        The Prince is survived by his wife, Thoko; seven children and seven grandchildren.
      