
        Momcilo Djujic, a Serbian warrior-priest who fought as a Chetnik commander in epic World War II battles in Yugoslavia, died Saturday at a hospice in San Diego. He was 92.
        Mr. Djujic, who lived in San Marcos, Calif., was in the view of some Serbs the last great ''Vojvoda,'' the designation in Serbia for a military commander distinguished by bravery, devotion to the Orthodox Church and loyalty to the now exiled monarchy.
        The title of ''Vojvoda'' was conferred on Mr. Djujic in June 1942, by Gen. Dragoljub (Draza) Mihailovic, the commander of the royalist Chetniks, after Mr. Djujic had already been fighting Nazi Germans, Croatian Fascists and Communist Partisans for a year in the mountains and valleys of his native region on the border between Croatia and northwestern Bosnia.
        So fierce was the fighting in Yugoslavia in World War II that Mr. Djujic, a tall, bearded commander in traditional black lambswool cap with a skull and crossbones insignia, never met General Mihailovic during the war because they were in different combat zones.
        They had begun fighting Axis forces almost simultaneously in the months after Hitler's invasion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, an invasion that unleashed brutal ethnic, religious and political rivalries among the country's Serbs, Muslims and Croats.
        A few weeks into the war, Croatian nationalist forces surrounded the home of Mr. Djujic, a priest. He grabbed a rifle, escaped across the mountains with his family and found refuge in the hills above the Croatian coast. By July 1941 he had organized a Chetnik uprising in northwestern Bosnia, seizing the city of Drvar from the Ustashe, as the Croatian fascists were known. The revolt soon spread to neighboring Croatia's coastal region, Dalmatia.
        How was it to strip off his priest's cassock and become a warrior? ''That decision didn't come easily,'' he said in 1990, ''but the forests were full of refugees and I could see the Ustashe in front of my nose in my parish. The people were crying, they needed deliverance.''
        In March 1942, Chetnik officers brought Mr. Djujic a radio transmitter. He battled on, and for a short time boasted of holding all of Dalmatia. A 1942 letter from General Mihailovic praised and thanked him for his ''gigantic efforts,'' recognized by the later award of high royal decorations.
        His acts of wartime bravery included the rescue of six American airmen shot down over Yugoslavia. But he also encountered charges that he collaborated with Communists and the Ustashe on occasion -- both sworn enemies of the royalist Serbian Chetniks -- and in 1946 Tito's Communist Government branded him a war criminal on charges of being responsible for the death of 1,500 people during the war.
        Mr. Djujic said later, ''I never made a compromise, never an agreement, either with the Communists or the Ustashe.''
        Momcilo Djujic (pronounced mahm-CHEE-lo JOO-yich) was born Feb. 27, 1907, in the village of Kovacic, in the region known as Tromedja, or junction, where Croatia meets northwestern Bosnia and their mixed populations of Serbs and Croats converged.
        He attended high school in the Croatian coastal city of Sibenik but at 22 went to the Orthodox theological seminary in Sremski Karlovci, graduating in 1931. Consecrated a priest, he was assigned to a parish near his birthplace. There his passionate sermons soon won him the the nickname Pop Vatra -- ''Father Fire.''
        Mr. Djujic's first and only encounter with Draza Mihailovic came when the body of King Alexander, who was assassinated in Marseilles in 1934, passed through the priest's native region. Mr. Djujic was chosen to stand by the coffin as the funeral train proceeded.
        Anticipating future ethnic conflict, Mr. Djujic met after the King's death with a Serbian paramilitary leader and the president of the Chetnik movement, Kosta Pecanac. With their assistance, even before war erupted, he organized and began to arm 11 Chetnik bands in his region. ''I knew that the country would not survive,'' he said later, ''because nobody can put Serbs and Croats in the same bag.''
        His toughest moment in battle, he said, was on Dec. 3, 1944, battling Communist Partisans in Dalmatia. His men were outnumbered five to one. Losses were heavy on both sides. ''It was also a big victory,'' Mr. Djujic recalled, ''because Tito gave his general an order to take me alive. Later the Partisan general wrote: 'Though we had the strongest forces, Djujic slipped away from us like a fish through our hands.' ''
        As the war ended, Mr. Djujic hoped to combine with other anti-Tito forces to build a kind of redoubt in northern Yugoslavia. Instead, he was ordered by Allied forces to surrender. His division was taken to southern Italy, from there to Germany and then dispersed to European countries, the United States and Australia.
        Mr. Djujic was in Paris from 1947 to 1949, then moved to the United States, where he became active in Serbian emigre circles and the Orthodox Church, although not serving as a priest.
        He enraged some emigre Serbs when he endorsed a church Patriarch in Belgrade authorized by the Communists, but remained strongly inimical to Tito. Finally he retired to San Marcos, writing poems and jokes published in America and Serbia.
        In 1989 he declared Vojislav Seselj, then an anti-Communist dissident, a Serbian ''Vojvoda.'' Mr. Seselj is now head of the Radical Party and a government coalition partner of President Slobodan Milosevic. ''I was naive when I nominated Seselj Vojovoda,'' Mr. Djujic said in 1998. ''I ask my people to forgive me. The greatest gravedigger of Serbdom is Slobodan Milosevic.''
        He is survived by his sons, Sinisa, of Redondo Beach, and Radivoje, of Santa Monica; a daughter, Radojka Kinach, of San Marcos; two granddaughters and four great-grandchildren; a brother, Bosko, of Torrance, Calif., and a sister, Ika Djuric, of Escondido, Calif. His wife, Zorka, died in 1995.
      