
        Otto A. Silha, a onetime copy editor and newspaper marketer who became president and publisher of The Minneapolis Star and Tribune in the 1970's and after retiring in 1984 underwrote a program in media ethics at the University of Minnesota, died Saturday. He was 80.
        The cause was complications following a heart attack, according to his son, Stephen.
        Mr. Silha began his journalism career on his college newspaper, The Minnesota Daily, in 1939. Aside from a four-year stint in the military during World War II, he spent most of the next 44 years in journalism working on the business side of the Star and Tribune Company, where he showed a zest for marketing, according to several colleagues.
        But if the business of newspapers was the first love in his career, his interest turned to journalistic ethics after his retirement. Louis D. Boccardi, president and chief executive of The Associated Press, on whose board Mr. Silha served, said, ''He was a guy from the business side but always had a sense of the larger issues, the larger purpose in newspapering.''
        Mr. Silha served with John Cowles Jr. in the top ranks of the Star and Tribune Company -- which was renamed the Cowles Media Company in 1982 -- when the Cowles family name was synonymous with a tough, no-nonsense journalism in Minnesota and Iowa. Members of the extended Cowles family owned both the Star and Tribune Company and the Des Moines Register Tribune Company.
        Mr. Silha joined The Minneapolis Star ''right out of the University of Minnesota -- and, what was very much the tradition those days, he worked his way up,'' said James A. Alcott, a former vice chairman of the Cowles Media Company who was also the author of a company history. Mr. Silha started as a copy editor and soon moved to the business side.
        About the time Mr. Silha was named chairman of the company that owned the newspaper and small magazine and book publishing divisions, the company bought The Buffalo Courier-Express, a morning newspaper. The investment proved ill-timed; Cowles Media closed the paper in 1982, after losing $25 million. Two years earlier, the company -- then still called the Minneapolis Star and Tribune Company -- had sold Harper's Magazine.
        After retiring from Cowles, he formed Silha Associates, a national media and management consulting organization. He also served as a consultant to the Gannett Company, which was then in the process of planning its successful purchase of another major Cowles family holding, the Des Moines Register Tribune Company.
        But his major focus in his retirement years was the issue of journalistic ethics and the needs of the city of Minneapolis. He donated $2 million to the University of Minnesota to further the study of media ethics, headed the Minnesota Experimental City Project and founded City Innovation, a national volunteer program.
        David C. Cox, who was president and chief executive of Cowles Media until it was absorbed into McClatchy Newspapers Inc. in 1998, said Mr. Silha ''was best known for advanced thinking about urban development.''
        Mr. Silha is survived by his wife, Helen, of Edina, Minn.; two sons, Stephen, of Vashon Island, Wash., and Mark, of Minneapolis; a daughter, Alice Reimann, and three grandchildren.
      