
        Tony Duquette, the designer whose lavish, whimsically baroque sets and costumes, interiors and jewelry made him a Hollywood favorite for more than five decades, died on Sept. 9. He was 85.
        The cause of his death, at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center, was complications from a heart attack, said Hutton Wilkinson, his business partner of 30 years.
        Exotic excess was the signature of the Tony Duquette style. ''He was the only man who could spend $999 in a 99-cent store,'' Mr. Wilkinson said.
        Part sly conjurer, part satin-robed esthete, Mr. Duquette was concerned with the dazzling effect of his designs, often using unabashedly cheap materials.
        At his Hollywood Hills studio, a roomful of 18th-century French antiques sat amid gilded trees beneath a ceiling studded with glued-on gold plastic serving trays. His talent for overdoing it was appreciated by clients who had acquired their own sense of the grandiose, among them Vincente Minnelli, Doris Duke, Mary Pickford, J. Paul Getty, David O. Selznick and the Duchess of Windsor.
        ''He was doing fantasy from the moment he began and remained committed to his vision no matter what the fashion of the day dictated,'' said Liz O'Brien, the New York dealer in 20th-century decorative arts.
        Anthony Michael Duquette (the name is pronounced due-KETT) was born in Los Angeles on June 11, 1914.  The oldest of four children, Mr. Duquette ''always just was what he was  -- artistic, driven,'' said his sister, Jeanne Newman. When he was 12, he entertained his siblings with a puppet show of ''Scheherezade,'' making all the costumes himself. The toy houses he built were romantically lit with birthday candles.
        After high school, he attended the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles on a scholarship. His first job was as a designer at Bullock's department store. As a freelancer, he also worked for the Hollywood designers Billy Haines and James Pendleton.
        During World War II, he served as a private in the United States Army. In 1949, he married Elizabeth Johnstone, an artist and eager contributor to the Duquette vision. He called her Beegle, and the nickname stuck.
        Mr. Duquette liked to say that he was discovered by Lady Mendl (who had become famous as an interior decorator as Elsie de Wolfe) when, in her 80's, she decamped from her villa in France to a villa in Los Angeles to avoid the war.
        ''I want you to make me a meuble,'' Lady Mendl commanded, putting the word ''furniture'' into French, after admiring a jewel-bedecked plaster and glass centerpiece that Mr. Duquette had designed for a dinner party.
        Impressed with the result, a black-lacquered secretary with Moors set against a mirrored background festooned with Venetian glass flowers, she began to promote her new discovery to clients, friends and influential editors. Their collaboration lasted until her death, in 1951. Mr. Duquette became president of the Elsie de Wolfe Foundation and at the time of his death he was organizing an  auction of the foundation's Elsie de Wolfe collections, to be held at Christie's in Los Angeles next week.
        It did not take long for Mr. Duquette to become established as a celebrity decorator, furniture and jewelry maker, and set designer. He furnished a castle for Elizabeth Arden, designed his first piece of jewelry for the Duchess of Windsor and built sets for Vincente Minnelli's lavish movies ''Ziegfeld Follies of 1944'' and ''Yolanda and the Thief,'' with Fred Astaire (1945). He won a Tony Award for best costumes for the original 1961 Broadway production of ''Camelot.'' In the late 1940's, he was given a one-man show at the Pavillon de Marsan in the Louvre.
        But his own lavishly theatrical homes were perhaps his most astonishing creations. The house on his 175-acre Malibu ranch, named Sortilegium, was an architectural collage of Oriental and Georgian motifs interlarded with bits of unexpected exotica: a window from Greta Garbo and John Gilbert's love nest, a Venetian gondola, and a set of 18th-century doors presented to him and his wife by Mary Pickford and Buddy Rogers as a wedding present. It was destroyed by fire in 1993.
        Another home, Dawnridge, was a village-like compound with Balinese pavilions and grand Venetian salons, the whole spiced with 18th-century Chinese window carvings.
        Mr. Duquette also enjoyed creating what he called celebrational environments. His most famous installation, dedicated in the 1980's, was in honor of St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of San Francisco, where Mr. Duquette had gained a large following with his opera sets and decorations for debutante balls. The Duquette Pavilion of St. Francis consisted of a room crowded with monumental 28-foot metal sculptures of archangels and giant jewel-studded tapestries. It, too, was destroyed by fire, in 1989.
        His wife died in 1995. In addition to his sister, Ms. Newman of La Canada, Calif., Mr. Duquette is survived by a brother, Frank Duquette of Palm Springs, Calif.
        Projects he was working on at the time of his death included rooms in the Palazzo Brandolini in Venice and a jewelry collection for Gucci.
        ''Decorating is not a surface performance,'' Mr. Duquette once said, ''It's a spiritual impulse, inborn and primordial.''
      