
        Benjamin S. Bloom, whose path-breaking 1964 research showing the profound impact of early childhood experience on adult ability helped lead to the creation of the Head Start program, died on Monday. He was 86.
        Dr. Bloom died at his home in Chicago, said William Harms, a spokesman for the University of Chicago, where Dr. Bloom was professor emeritus of education.
        In the most influential of his 17 books, ''Stability and Change in Human Characteristics'' (John Wiley & Sons, 1964), Dr. Bloom said many physical and mental characteristics of adults could be predicted through testing while the subjects were still children.
        For example, he found that 50 percent of the variations in intelligence at the age of 17 could be estimated at the age of 4. He also found that early experiences in the home shaped learning ability.
        Dr. Bloom's findings focused the attention of many educators and psychologists on the importance of early education and the home environment.
        ''He provided the intellectual and empirical basis for Head Start,'' said Lorin Anderson, a professor of education at the University of South Carolina and a former student of Dr.  Bloom. ''His timing was impeccable. He had the ability to see beyond where we are to where the next issue will be.''
        Dr. Bloom's discussions of his research with President Lyndon B. Johnson and his testimony before Congress played a big part in the 1965 establishment of Head Start. The early education and pre-school program provides education, health, nutrition and other services to low-income children and their families.
        The program became an important part of Johnson's Great Society, and has enjoyed bipartisan Congressional support since then..
        Among Dr. Bloom's other books, ''Taxonomy of Educational Objectives'' (David McKay & Company, 1956), which sets forth a hierarchy of learning beginning with factual knowledge and leading through comprehension, application, analysis, synthesis and evaluation, is still in use today by education scholars in more than 50 languages.
        Dr. Bloom also advanced a theory called ''mastery learning,'' the idea that all students are capable of learning if material is presented to them in a logical, systematic way.
        Benjamin Samuel Bloom was born on Feb. 21, 1913, in Lansford, Pa. He received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1935 and a master's degree from Penn State, also in 1935. He received a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1942.
        Dr. Bloom joined the Chicago faculty in 1944. He also served as president of the American Educational Research Association.
        Dr. Bloom is survived by his wife, Sophie, of Chicago; two sons, David and Jonathan, both of Chicago; and a brother, George, of Jim Thorpe, Pa.
      