
        Frederick P. Rose, a highly successful builder who poured his energy into two dozen major apartment projects and an equal number of institutions that adorn the New York skyline, from Lincoln Center to Rockefeller University and the Children's Aid Society, died Tuesday night. He was 75.
        He died at his home in Rye, N.Y., after a brief illness, his family said.
        A second-generation member of a New York real estate dynasty, Mr. Rose could be found until earlier this year supervising construction of a 50-story apartment house, the Belvedere, at 29th Street between Fifth and Madison Avenues.
        It was the latest project for Rose Associates, which owns or manages 12,000 apartments in New York and four million square feet of commercial space.
        At the same time, and with equal enthusiasm, he was overseeing construction of the $150 million Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Center for Earth and Space at the American Museum of Natural History, the giant sphere that houses the new Hayden Planetarium. Mr. Rose not only wrote a $20 million check for the planetarium but also was the project leader for the trustees.
        ''He was a builder in every sense of the word, not just of buildings, but of institutions,'' said Ellen Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural History.
        Over the years, Mr. Rose also donated $5 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, $15 million to the New York Public Library and $18 million to Lincoln Center; in all, he  gave away more than $95 million.
        A forceful man with a reputation for keeping his word, Mr. Rose could breeze into a meeting, as he did earlier this year with his longtime friend and partner, Charles Benenson, and within minutes size up the situation and agree to a $24 million real estate deal for land on 44th Street, near Third Avenue, for a 51-story apartment house.
        Mr. Rose was still building tall buildings while his nephew, Joseph B. Rose, current chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, labored to change the zoning laws to bar oversized towers in Manhattan.
        Although the Rose family's buildings were known more for efficiency than architectural detail, Mr. Rose was most proud of building two towers that won awards for design: the Bankers Trust Building at 280 Park Avenue, near 48th Street, and a 40-story apartment house at 45 East 89th Street.
        His interests ranged widely.
        Mr. Rose always carried a stack of foreign currency and American dollar bills, which he would fold into intricate origami figures of birds, cows and walruses and present to his delighted friends.
        At the end of a stuffy board meeting at Lincoln Center, Mr. Rose would often stroll over to a piano and play a few songs for the amusement of the other directors. He played golf up to four times a week and, last year, hired a national chess champion to sharpen his skills.
        Mr. Benenson, who had been a partner in many of Mr. Rose's real estate deals since the early 1960's, said he called his friend two months ago, suggesting that they raise $100,000 from each of 10 people for the refugees in Kosovo.
        The next day, Mr. Benenson recalled, the developer called back and said, ''O.K., we'll do it through the American Jewish Committee, because we want to show the world that Jewish people are helping Muslims.''
        ''Two or three days later,'' Mr. Benenson concluded, ''we had $1.4 million. ''
        An engineer by training, Mr. Rose wrote in a 1994 journal commemorating the 50th anniversary of his graduation from Yale University that the central focus of his life had been his family. He wrote that he had been on the boards of 35 organizations, from Con Edison to Yale University. He took pride in being a builder.
        Finally, he wrote: ''I don't read trash, watch TV or have an interest in spectator sports. This leaves time for active participation in things I enjoy: music, chess, tennis, golf, travel, skiing and friendship.''
        Mr. Rose's insistence on providing advice and hiring consultants for projects to which he had contributed sometimes rankled other developers, but institutions and their directors embraced him.
        Until recently, Mr. Rose was chairman of the real estate company started by his father, Samuel B. Rose, and his uncle, David Rose, in the Bronx around the time he was born, in 1923. The two brothers built small apartment houses in the Bronx before moving into Manhattan a decade later. Samuel had three sons, Daniel, Elihu and Frederick, all of  whom joined the company after World War II. Frederick's son, Adam, is now president of Rose Associates.
        Mr. Rose married his teen-age sweetheart, Sandra Priest of Rye, in the early 1940's. She survives him, along with a daughter, Deborah Rose; two sons, Jonathan F. P. Rose and Adam R. Rose, both of New York; two brothers, Daniel and Elihu, and three grandchildren, Ariel, Rachael and Sarah.
        Mr. Rose served in the construction battalions of the Navy Seabees during World War II, rising to the rank of lieutenant before he returned to New York and Rose Associates. He took charge of design and construction, while Daniel did the planning and finances and Elihu took over management of the family's apartment houses.
        Mr. Rose built more than 2,000 units of middle-income housing under the state's Mitchell-Lama program, as well as the family's first office tower, at 280 Park Avenue.
        But unlike some developers who showed up in the gossip columns during the 1980's and 1990's, Mr. Rose and his family avoided publicity. He usually contributed money to charities anonymously, and word of the donations rarely leaked out until years later.
        ''He built good-quality housing and he was devoted to community service,'' said Robert I. Shapiro, a real estate broker who knew Mr. Rose.
        A longtime opponent of rent control, Mr. Rose converted more than 3,000 apartments in Manhattan during the early 1990's to condominiums and co-ops. Many people in the industry thought it was a risky move, given the recession.
        But unlike many landlords at the time who were struggling with enormous loans, the Rose family had buildings that were largely free of debt, and the conversion went off without a hitch.
        ''He secretly believed he was the finest construction superintendent in the city,'' said his brother Daniel, who is now chairman of Rose Associates. ''He liked to kick the bricks.''
        Mr. Rose applied the same energy, enthusiasm and discipline to his philanthropic work as his professional work, his brother said. When Mr. Rose, along with his wife, gave $15 million to Lincoln Center, he also helped engineer the construction of the Rose Building, a 31-story tower that houses rehearsal space and dormitories for the Juilliard School of Music and offices for the School of American Ballet and the New York Philharmonic.
        ''He had a mercurial mind and it was fun trying to keep up with him,'' said Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln Center. ''He was a man of the world in every sense of the word. I'm really going to miss him.''
      