
        John F. White Sr., a political strategist and organizer whose leadership played a vital role in the election of black officials in Philadelphia, died on Wednesday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 75.
        In 1968, Mr. White helped found the Black Political Forum, his principal political arm.
        In the 15 years before the election of W. Wilson Goode as the first African-American Mayor of Philadelphia in 1983, Mr. White helped blacks win election to 10 city offices or seats in the State Legislature and a seat in the United States House.
        Hardy Williams was the first of this group when he was elected to the Pennsylvania House in 1970. Mr. Williams was followed to the State Legislature by David P. Richardson, and then Mr. White's son, John F. White Jr. William H. Gray 3d was elected to the United States House and became the first black House member to serve as the Democratic whip.
        Mr. White used the Black Political Forum to bring local African-American leaders together, consider ways to maximize their influence and establish goals and means of achieving them.
        In Mr. White's last public appearance this week, said David W. Brown, a longtime friend and a spokesman for the family, ''he was saying that African-Americans should look beyond race and party affiliation in making endorsements. They should join their natural allies, the liberal middle class, which includes both African-Americans and non-African Americans.''
        Mr. Brown said that Mr. White's preaching of political independence was reflected this week when Mr. White's son, who finished third in the Democratic mayoral primary behind John F. Street, announced that he was endorsing Mr. Street's Republican opponent, Sam Katz.
        Mr. White retired in the early 1990's from his job as an assistant managing director of the City of Philadelphia, an appointive post with responsibilities that included overseeing the City Watch, a community policing program that Mr. White had helped to establish.
        John Felix White was born on June 9, 1924, in Berlin, Md. He received a bachelor's of science degree in 1944 from Bowie State College.
        He received a certificate of Christian education at Cedar Crest College and for many years served as deacon at Mount Carmel Baptist Church in West Philadelphia.
        Mr. White's first wife, Sylvia Lewis, died in 1990. In addition to his son, from the first marriage, Mr. White is survived by his wife, Patricia Washington of Philadelphia; a brother, Otha White of Maryland; four sisters, Anna Waters, Emma Jones, Eliza Brown and Barbara Corbin, all of the Philadelphia area; nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      