
        James R. West, a career diplomat and the husband of the writer Mary McCarthy for nearly 30 years, died on Monday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me.
        Dashing and worldly with a superlative wit, Mr. West immediately captured Ms. McCarthy's attention when they met in Warsaw in January of 1960. He was a cultural attache with the Foreign Service; she and Saul Bellow were on a lecture tour sponsored by the State Department at the recommendation of the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., who introduced the couple.
        Ms. McCarthy said of Mr. West that he was the first real man she had met. A fan of her writing, Mr. West already esteemed Ms. McCarthy's intellect before being further swept away by her charms. Though they were both married at the time -- she to Bowden Broadwater, her third husband; he to Margaret Jacobson, his second wife and the mother of his three children -- he is said to have remarked after their first dance that he would marry her. Divorces followed on both sides.
        ''He has a kind of exquisite tenderness, toward things as well as persons,'' Ms. McCarthy wrote of her new acquaintance to a friend, the philosopher Hannah Arendt. ''The ordinary Poles . . . all love him.''
        Mr. West was born in Maine and attended Bowdoin College. After briefly trying his hand at writing, he joined the Air Force in World War II. Shortly after the war, he began his career in the Foreign Service and became director of personnel for the Marshall Plan in Paris. After moving back to the United States in 1955, Mr. West was posted in Warsaw as Cultural Attache.
        In 1961, following his marriage to Ms. McCarthy, and to be close to his children, he joined the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a Paris-based group that promotes worldwide economic growth, as the director of information. He held the post until his retirement in 1979.
        By all accounts, their life in Paris offered a brilliant marriage of the diplomatic and the literary, as intellectuals, artists, government officials and various friends passed through their salon on the rue de Rennes for nearly 20 years.
        Following Mr. West's retirement in 1979, he and Ms. McCarthy divided their time between Paris and Castine and, later, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., where Ms. McCarthy taught at Bard College. In Castine they lived in the 1805 Daniel Johnston house, where they recreated the life Ms. McCarthy once had with her parents, who died when she was 6. It was a sort of romantic idyll centered on a handsome and winning couple whose days were enlivened by memorable gatherings of family and friends including the poet Robert Lowell and the critic Elizabeth Hardwick.
        After Ms. McCarthy's death in 1989, Mr. West moved permanently to Castine. In 1990, he married Barbara Byrnes, whom he had met during college. In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children, Daniel of Los Angeles, Alison of New York and Jonathan of Lodz, Poland, and by four grandchildren.
      