
        W. Arthur Garrity Jr., the Federal judge whose school desegregation order led to the racial turmoil that tarred Boston as a place of busing infamy in the 1970's, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 79.
        Judge Garrity died just as the last vestiges of the busing system he ordered into being were fading away. The Boston School Committee voted this summer to drop race as a factor in deciding which school a child attends.
        But his ruling and Judge Garrity himself, as a figure who shaped Boston's recent history, have remained the subjects of hot debate here to this day. Indeed, though his colleagues on the Federal court and Senator Edward M. Kennedy issued statements tonight praising Judge Garrity as a man of great courage and a consummate jurist, other reactions reflected a deep and lingering divide in Boston about the man and his ruling.
        Mayor Thomas M. Menino said: ''Few men had as much impact on the life of the city as Judge Arthur Garrity. He was a man of deep convictions. And whether you agreed or disagreed with his opinion a generation ago, everyone can agree that Judge Garrity's influence on our city will be felt for a long time to come.''
        Others responded with unfaded rancor. ''You mention the name Judge Garrity and the first thing you think of is the man that caused so much hurt to kids and parents,'' said James Kelly, a longtime busing opponent who is the current president of the Boston City Council. ''Absolutely no good came from what Garrity did.''
        In a television interview last year, Judge Garrity said he had no regrets about his 1974 decision that though Boston schools were not formally segregated, they showed a pattern of de facto racial distribution that amounted to unconstitutional segregation and had to be corrected.
        ''I still think that given the circumstances that existed at the time, what I did was reasonable,'' he said.
        Until his death, Judge Garrity served as a semi-retired senior judge of the Federal trial court that covers Massachusetts and had continued to hear cases in recent weeks. The court's chief judge, William G. Young, said that Judge Garrity had issued many important rulings, among them decisions on maritime law and on the power of the courts to require people to appear.
        But the busing decision, Judge Young said, ''was among the half-dozen most important decisions from this court in its 200 years.''
        In legal circles, Judge Garrity was known as a careful, methodical and painstaking judge. He was slight of build and had a smile described as shy. But when the decision on busing fell to him -- by chance through the court's lottery system -- he showed no shyness about the explosive task before him.
        His opinion on the suit brought by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People found that the Boston School Committee ''knowingly carried out a systematic program of segregation.'' As proof, he pointed to a set of policies, including the pattern of setting the sizes and locations of public schools to be built in a way that encouraged segregation.
        That done, Judge Garrity then faced the even thornier task of overseeing the steps taken to desegregate the system. The plan put in place included the busing of thousands of black and white students to equalize the racial mixes of schools.
        Opposition to desegregation exploded in some areas, particularly the white enclaves of Charlestown and South Boston, and spilled over into racial violence. Judge Garrity became the target of death threats and at least two attempts on his life. He remained under guard 24 hours a day from 1974 to 1978. He was scorned and snubbed by many; his name appeared in profane city graffiti; he was hanged in effigy, and demonstrators came to his home.
        The turmoil of those years contrasted sharply with Judge Garrity's death.
        ''Dad died peacefully at home Thursday night with his family at his side,'' Judge Garrity's son, W. Arthur Garrity 3d, said in a family statement tonight. ''The profound expressions of affection and consolation from his many friends and colleagues, for which we are all so very grateful, are a tribute to the integrity and respect with which Dad lived his public life.''
        Through all the castigation and ostracism in the 1970's and beyond, Judge Garrity stood fast, though he sometimes expressed his dismay at the turmoil. The busing system lasted for a dozen years. In 1987, the schools were deemed sufficiently integrated to end it, and busing was replaced in 1989 by a system known as ''controlled choice,'' which still used race as a factor in school assignments, but a lesser one.
        Born on June 20, 1920, in Worcester, Mass., he was the son of a prominent local lawyer of Irish extraction. He attended Holy Cross College there, graduating cum laude in 1941, and served during World War II as a Navy signalman, including action in the Normandy invasion.
        He graduated from Harvard Law School and was part of the teams that helped John F. Kennedy win election as Senator and then President. He worked many years as a partner in a private law firm, served as United States Attorney for Massachusetts and became a Federal judge in 1966.
        Among his rulings over the years were several others that affected schools, including orders requiring new bilingual and special education programs and better job opportunities for minority teachers.
        But it is the busing decision for which he will be remembered, and whose legacy, many Bostonians say, is still felt -- whether, as busing proponents say, in the better integrated schools or, as busing opponents say, in the white exodus from the city and the lingering financial costs of busing.
        ''Judge Garrity still sort of stands in the background today,'' said Thomas O'Connor, a prominent Boston historian, ''as residents of the city, both black and white, are engaged in a discussion of the best way to promote public education in the city.''
        Judge Garrity is survived by his wife of 47 years, Barbara; one other son, Charles A; two daughters, Anne G. Singleton and Jean M. Garrity, all of Wellesley, Mass., and eight grandchildren.
      