
        David Karp, a prolific writer of novels, screenplays and television dramas who rose to prominence in the Golden Age of television drama, died on Sept. 11 at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 77.
        Mr. Karp, who had homes in Manhattan and Pittsfield, died from emphysema, said his wife, Claire Leighton Karp.
        Mr. Karp wrote six novels and many episodes of television series, including ''The Untouchables'' and ''The Defenders,'' and he wrote or produced as many films, but his early prominence resulted from his dozens of television dramas.
        In the late 1950's and early 60's Mr. Karp, like such contemporaries as Paddy Chayevsky, Horton Foote and Reginald Rose, felt free to tackle  tough social issues.
        Mr. Karp's television play ''One''  told of the ordeal of a college professor striving for free expression at a future time when the state is supreme and all traces of individuality have been stamped out. ''One'' was based on his novel of the same name and was produced twice on television, on the ''Kraft Television Theater'' in 1955 and the ''Matinee Theater'' in 1957.
        He also wrote for the other major television drama anthologies of the day, including ''Studio One.'' Other television dramas written by Mr. Karp dealt with themes like the dangerous power of political bosses (''The Big Vote''), the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary (''The End of a World'') and an episode from John F. Kennedy's book ''Profiles in Courage'' that involved a senator who held out against the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson. He also wrote ''The Plot to Kill Stalin,'' naming several top Soviet leaders as  conspirators.
        Television movies he wrote or produced included ''The Brotherhood of the Bell,'' ''The Brothers Rico,'' ''The Girl Who Saved America,'' ''Death and the Maiden,'' ''Crime and Commitment'' and ''Arthur the King.''
        Born in Manhattan on May 5, 1922, Mr. Karp graduated from City College and served in the Signal Corps during World War II.
        Mr. Karp's first wife, Lillian Klass Karp, died in 1987. In addition to his second wife, Mr. Karp is survived by two sons, Ethan Ross and Andrew Gabriel, both of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      