
        Harry Crane, a comedy writer who helped create the long-running and perpetually rerun television show ''The Honeymooners,'' featuring Jackie Gleason, died last Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85.
        Besides writing for Mr. Gleason, Mr. Crane concocted gags and routines for Jimmy Durante, Abbott and Costello, the Marx Brothers, Milton Berle, Jerry Lewis and others.
        He also wrote jokes for singers like Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Dinah Shore and Perry Como, for television specials featuring Alan King and for Dean Martin's ''Celebrity Roast'' television series.
        Mr. Crane, the grandfather of the television actresses Melissa Gilbert of the ''The Little House on the Prairie'' and Sara Gilbert of ''Roseanne,'' was best known for his role in developing ''The Honeymooners.''
        The show came about when he and another writer, Joe Bigelow, were working on ''Cavalcade of Stars'' for the DuMont network in 1951. The host of the show, Mr. Gleason, asked for a sketch casting him as a working-class guy from Brooklyn with a beleaguered wife. Thus Ralph and Alice Kramden were born.
        The characters later had their own situation comedy, ''The Honeymooners,'' on CBS in 1955 and 1956. Thirty-nine episodes have been played countless times since in syndication.
        Mr. Crane, who also wrote other characters for Mr. Gleason for his variety show, ''The Jackie Gleason Show,'' was born on April 23, 1914, in Brooklyn. He hit the Borscht Belt as a teen-ager.
        In 1943 he was recruited by MGM to write for Hollywood.
        Among his screenplays were ''Air Raid Wardens'' (1943), starring Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy, ''The Harvey Girls'' (1946), with Judy Garland and Angela Lansbury, and ''Song of the Thin Man'' (1947), starring Myrna Loy and William Powell.
        He was nominated numerous times for Emmy Awards. He also wrote scripts for the Academy Awards in 1957 and 1959 and presentations for the Golden Globes and the Emmys.
        Besides his two granddaughters, Mr. Crane is survived by his wife, Lillian; two daughters, Barbara Gilbert Cowan and Stephanie Crane Hirsh, both of Encino, Calif.; a grandson, and four great-grandchildren.
      