
        John W. Vanderhoff, a chemist who was the chief scientist of a National Aeronautics and Space Administration project that produced what was said to be the first commercial product made in space, died on Thursday at his home in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 74.
        He retired in 1997 from the faculty of Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., because of ill health, said Kurt Pfitzer of the Office of University Communications at Lehigh.
        Professor Vanderhoff joined Lehigh's faculty in 1970.
        He and associates at Lehigh developed a chemical process that made plastic spheres so small that 18,000 of them could fit on the head of a pin. Officials in Washington announced in 1985 that nearly a billion of the tiny spheres, which had been produced in the absence of gravity aboard the orbiting space shuttle Challenger, had been sold to eight companies, to the Food and Drug Administration and to the University of Utah for use as microscopic yardsticks.
        The spheres, made of polystyrene, are 10 micrometers, or about one-2,500th of an inch, in diameter. It was said at the time that perfect spheres that small were almost impossible to make on Earth because of gravity.  The companies that bought the spheres were manufacturing finely ground powder products like paint pigments, flour and cosmetics. The spheres were to be used to calibrate instruments for measuring the size of particles in the products.
        At the time, a vial containing about 30 million of the spheres was selling for $384, and 29 vials had been sold.
        But subsequent experience showed that the high cost of manufacturing products like the spheres in orbit was a substantial problem. The spheres are no longer in production.
        Professor Vanderhoff won awards from NASA, the American Chemical Society, Union Carbide and Lehigh.
        He was born in Niagara Falls, N.Y. and received a bachelor's degree in 1947 from Niagara University and a doctorate in chemistry in 1951 from what is now the State University of New York in Buffalo.
        He worked for the Dow Chemical Company before joining Lehigh's faculty.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Joan T. Moir; a daughter, Jane A. Vanderhoff of Bethlehem; a son, John M., of Center Valley, Pa.; two sisters, Rosemary K. Vanderhoff and Eleanor V. Asklar, both of Niagara Falls, and a grandchild.
      