
        Austin K. Haldenstein, a real estate broker whose enthusiasm for brownstones helped start New York City's town house revival, died on Monday at a nursing home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 74.
        Mr. Haldenstein also helped develop the ethics segment of the curriculum at New York University's Real Estate Institute and was an adjunct professor there. But his friends and colleagues remember him as a man with another mission.
        Opening his own office in the late 1960's, he could not believe that so many of his city's brownstones, full of original details (and tenants), were unloved, cut up or derelict -- and practically unsalable, especially on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn.
        ''It's hard to believe now, but especially the Upper West Side from 86th to 96th, from Central Park West to Amsterdam, was pretty scary,'' said Elizabeth Dean, now a vice president at Stribling Associates and one of a group of the city's real estate agents who came to regard Mr. Haldenstein as a mentor. ''Austin had fabulous faith in the area,'' she said.
        Until the late 1970's, that stretch was the object of a controversial urban renewal project, pending since the late 1950's, that included plans to demolish dozens of brownstones and to build high-rise housing projects.
        Mr. Haldenstein joined other town house devotees in speaking out against city plans to demolish the houses, some of which have been restored and are now selling for more than $2 million each. In the end, the city agreed to rehabilitate many of the old houses, and when it did build new housing, to keep it low-rise on the side streets.
        He helped organize brownstone seminars on the Upper West Side and in Greenwich Village and Brooklyn Heights, lecturing potential homeowners on how to finance and maintain the historic houses.
        He was also one of the first major Manhattan brokers to champion the concept of cooperative apartments for all economic levels. While there had been co-ops on Park and Fifth Avenue for decades, the movement had not caught on, said Melvin B. Bisgyer, a mortgage broker who often worked with Mr. Haldenstein.
        ''I remember in the late 60's when Austin said he was going to open an office to sell co-ops, and I said, 'You're crazy,' '' Mr. Bisgyer, now retired in Oregon, recalled. Asked how much he was planning on investing in the new venture, Mr. Haldenstein replied, ''About $20,000.''
        ''I told him: 'I got a better idea: why don't we just go out to the track, gamble and sit in the sun; it'll be more fun to lose the money that way,' '' Mr. Bisgyer said. ''Well, every year after that, he'd take me out to a real, real expensive restaurant and kind of nicely rub it in.'' He paused, then said. ''Austin became very successful.''
        At one time, Mr. Haldenstein had three offices, on the East Side and the West Side and in Greenwich Village; his company was bought out by Douglas Elliman in 1987. From 1990 to 1992, he was director of West Side sales for Ambrose-Mar Elia, another real estate concern, and in 1993, he joined Vandenberg Real Estate as the senior vice president and ''senior statesman,'' in the words of Dexter Guerrieri, Vandenberg's president.
        Mr. Guerrieri nicknamed Mr. Haldenstein ''Columbo,'' not only because of the way he dressed, his socks seldom matching and his shirt always seeming to have escaped his trousers, but also because ''he would appear to be distracted and then came up with these insightful comments.'' Sometimes, the disarray was disarming; he would sometimes show up on the tennis court in the guise of a disheveled old man -- and then win the tournament.
        Mr. Haldenstein had been a fine tennis player since he was a student at Horace Mann High School in New York. Even after he graduated from the University of Miami, he continued to play with colleagues.
        He is survived by a daughter, Susan Federspiel; a son, Kenneth Haldenstein, and two grandchildren.
      