
        Alex Haynes, a Ford Motor Company engineer who pioneered safety devices for American cars in the 1950's, died Monday in a nursing home in Stuart, Fla. He was 89.
        When Mr. Haynes oversaw Ford's development of the auto industry's first comprehensive package of safety equipment, his crash tests sometimes bordered on the macabre. A nationally telecast promotion of seat belts -- showing that the belts could support a Lincoln -- went awry, and Ford's safety campaign did not translate into sales at first. However, the life-saving devices that Mr. Haynes advocated eventually became standard equipment.
        As executive engineer for product study at Ford, Mr. Haynes helped create 1956 models with collapsible steering wheels, safety locks to keep doors from flying open on impact, shatter-resistant rear-view mirrors, and, as options, seat belts, padded sun visors and padded dashboards.
        Several small American automobile companies had provided seat belts earlier in the 1950's, but Ford made ''a breakthrough'' as the first company with an array of safety products, according to Prof. David Lewis, an auto industry historian at the University of Michigan.
        ''But people weren't buying safety,'' Professor Lewis recalled on Wednesday. ''After three months of trying to market cars on the basis of safety, Ford reverted to the kind of advertising other auto makers were using: style and horsepower.''
        Mr. Haynes, who was born in Poland, came to the United States with his family as a youngster and received engineering degrees from Carnegie Institute of Technology and the University of Michigan.
        After working on aircraft design for Curtiss-Wright and General Motors during World War II, he was hired in 1945 by Ford. During the early 1950's, he undertook safety research at the behest of Henry Ford 2d, the company president, who had become aware of accident studies by Cornell University Medical College.
        ''He told me to look into them and see what we could use,'' Mr. Haynes recalled in a 1986 interview with The Miami Herald. ''That was the start of the drive to make cars safer.''
        Ford researchers crashed cars together to see how various types of door locks would hold. But because crash dummies were not available then, they had to improvise to study the impact of crashes. Mr. Haynes remembered that his engineers joined with Wayne State University Medical School in Detroit, which was using human skulls to study head injuries, in dropping skulls down a five-floor elevator shaft onto objects of varying shapes and materials ''to see what would happen when heads hit them.''
        In promoting its safety features on the 1956 models, Ford staged a demonstration televised on Dave Garroway's ''Today'' show on NBC.
        The idea was to lift a gold Lincoln 10 feet in the air using Ford's new seat belts and buckles to show how strong they were. But to capture the best camera angles, technicians hauled the car up in jerks of 10 feet until it was about 60 feet in the air.
        ''Then the buckle collapsed, and the car fell on national television,'' Mr. Haynes recalled. ''The fall broke its frame. I called my wife and told her to pack -- that I was out of a job.''
        Mr. Haynes later calculated that the buckle, designed to support 4,000 pounds of pressure, had withstood more than five times that before collapsing, and when he told Ford officials, he was hailed for his work.
        Mr. Haynes retired from Ford in 1970 and moved to the Stuart area. During the late 1970's, he traveled to South Korea to help Hyundai start an automobile division.
        He is survived by his wife, Eve, of Stuart; three daughters, Stephanie Patton, of Maryland; Laura Roscoe, of Nova Scotia, and Elizabeth Richardson of Ann Arbor, Mich.; two brothers, William, of Stuart, and Berle, of Pittsburgh; a sister, Ann Zabet, of Washington, and two grandsons.
      