
        Edward Joseph Kiernan, a retired New York City police officer who headed the city's police union and two international police organizations, died on Saturday at Castle Point Veterans Hospital near Newburgh, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Congers, N.Y.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Kiernan, a big man, standing 6 feet 4 inches tall, spent 27 years on the police force, assigned to the 110th Precinct in Queens. During that time, he helped to transform the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association from a relatively meek fraternal order into a militant and recognized bargaining agent.
        With a touch of sarcasm, he liked to refer to the P.B.A.'s earlier history as ''those days when we were just benevolent.''
        Educated at St. Agnes Academic High School in College Point, Queens, he was appointed to the police force in 1942 while serving in the Army Air Force. His duties took him to the South Pacific, Australia, New Guinea, the Philippines and Okinawa. Discharged as a flight engineer and master sergeant, he arrived at the station house in Elmhurst, Queens, in 1945 and was elected a P.B.A. delegate just two years later.
        He became a union trustee in 1953, second vice president in 1958, first vice president in 1960 and president of the 30,000-member organization in 1969. He also headed its legislative committee and helped shape a number of state laws that benefited police officers and their families. Among them were one allowing officers to ''moonlight'' in part-time work, one permitting officers to reside outside of the city and various pension and retirement benefit bills.
        His term as president did not run out until 1974, but he quit more than a year early when faced with a rebellion of P.B.A. militants who derided him for refusing to support a five-day wildcat police strike in 1971. Mr. Kiernan said he believed that the association had better ways to reach its objectives than walking out on the job and the public that police officers were sworn to serve.
        He retired from the police force in early 1973. He served as president of the International Conference of Police Associations and of the International Union of Police Associations, of which he was a founder. He retired from the international union in 1982 as president emeritus.
        Mr. Kiernan is survived by his wife, Alice May Packard Kiernan; five sons, Edward Jr., of Stuyvesant, N.Y., Kevin, of Nanuet, N.Y., Keith, of Boston, John O'Brien of Congers and Timothy O'Brien of Haverstraw, N.Y.; three daughters, Karen Muller of Princeton, N.J., and Kathleen Maffeo and Carol Klecar, both of Congers, and 10 grandchildren.
      