
        Dr. Robert G. Heath, a physician and medical researcher at Tulane University who was best known for his ground-breaking work on schizophrenia, died on Tuesday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 84.
        In 1957, Dr. Heath found a protein antibody called taraxein in the blood of schizophrenics that was capable of inducing schizophrenic-like symptoms in monkeys and healthy human volunteers.
        The finding was controversial because it was early evidence that schizophrenia is of biochemical origin and not, as was widely believed at the time, related to childhood or other emotional traumas.
        Dr. Heath also provided a footnote to investigations in the 1970's concerning the Central Intelligence Agency's use of private institutions in a secret effort to develop mind-control techniques.
        In 1962, Dr. Heath said, a doctor for the agency approached him while he was doing experiments on pleasure centers in the brain, and asked if he would be interested in exploring the ''pain center.''
        Dr. Heath called the request ''abhorrent.''
        ''If I wanted to be a spy, I'd be a spy,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times in 1977. ''I wanted to be a doctor and practice medicine.''
        Dr. Robert Galbraith Heath was born in Pittsburgh on May 9, 1915. He earned bachelor's and medical degrees at the University of Pittsburgh. He also trained in neurology and was chief resident at the Neurological Institute in New York and in psychiatry at the Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. After two years in the military, he returned to New York to the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, where he earned a doctorate in neurophysiological research and certification in psychoanalysis.
        In 1949, he founded and became the first chairman of the department of psychiatry and neurology at Tulane, a post he held until 1980.
        He was awarded an honorary doctorate by Tulane in 1985, and the Heath Chair in Psychiatry and Neurology was established at Tulane the same year.
        Dr. Heath was the author of numerous books, including ''Exploring the Mind-Brain Relationship'' (Moran Printing, Baton Rouge, 1996).
        He is survived by his wife, Eleanor; four daughters, Anne Stronach of Wilson, N.C., Sharon King of Scituate, Mass., Barbara Boucek of St. Petersburg and Carole Brammer of Baton Rouge, La.; a son, Robert G. Heath Jr., of Tampa, Fla.; 12 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      