
        Stanley Fleishman, a constitutional lawyer involved in several noted First Amendment cases and an advocate for disabled people's rights who was himself disabled by polio, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        The causes were pneumonia and complications from surgery, The Associated Press said.
        At his death, Mr. Fleishman had been a partner in the Los Angeles law firm of Fleishman & Fisher and its predecessors for two decades.
        His colleague David Grosz recalled that, beginning in 1957, Mr. Fleishman argued 10 cases before the Supreme Court that involved literary freedom. He also prevailed without argument in seven other cases reviewed by the Court.
        For example, Mr. Fleishman represented both Henry Miller, in his fight against extradition from Los Angeles to Brooklyn to face criminal obscenity charges for having written ''Tropic of Cancer,'' and Bradley Smith, a bookseller who had been convicted of selling the book.
        In a noted 1957 case, Alberts v. California, Mr. Fleishman lost, but the Supreme Court's ruling made it clear for the first time that the portrayal of sex in ''art, literature and scientific works is not in itself sufficient reason to deny'' constitutional protection.
        The court also said, in language that soon became famous, that the proper test of obscenity was not the effect of isolated excerpts on sensitive people, but ''whether to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interest.''
        In addition to his First Amendment battles, Mr. Grosz said, Mr. Fleishman ''embarked on a quest,'' beginning in the 1970's, ''to enforce the then-emerging statutory rights of people with disabilities.''
        His last appearance before the Supreme Court came in 1994 in a child pornography case. He was the lawyer for the defendant, Rubin Gottesman. In 1987, Mr. Gottesman, the owner of an adult video store in Los Angeles, had sold to an undercover agent more than 100 videotapes featuring Traci Lords, an actress in adult movies whose career had begun when she was a minor.
        The case provoked a spirited debate among the Justices over how the Court should respond when faced with a carelessly written law, which, if taken literally, might be unconstitutional. The circumstances of the case raised two questions: Should the Court read the law in the way that Congress almost certainly intended but did not quite say, or should the Court teach Congress a lesson by holding the lawmakers to their poor choice of words?
        A 1977 Federal law, the Protection of Children Against Sexual Exploitation Act, said that ''any person who knowingly transports or ships'' a ''visual depiction'' of a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct faced up to 10 years in prison and a fine of up to $100,000.
        In 1992, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, in overturning Mr. Gottesman's conviction, held that the law violated the First Amendment because it did not require the Government to prove that a defendant knew that the explicit films showed performers under the age of 18. The appeals court found that, from its placement in the statute, the word ''knowingly'' applied only to transporting or shipping a ''visual depiction,'' and not to succeeding clauses about the performers' ages and the films' nature.
        Mr. Fleishman argued that the appeals court had given the right interpretation to a ''badly drawn statute.'' But Justice David H. Souter replied that this ''grammatical point doesn't answer the problem of meaning.''
        The Court upheld the law in that case, but it also held that a person charged under that statute must know both the age of the performers and the material's sexual content.
        Mr. Fleishman was also active in cases involving the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and earlier, related legislation, and near the end of his life was collaborating on a suit to gain accommodations so the disabled could easily ride Los Angeles buses.
        He was born in the Bronx, a printer's son. When he was 1 year old, polio left him without the use of one arm and of both legs for the rest of his life.
        He grew up in Queens and received his law degree in 1944 from Columbia University. He moved to Los Angeles in 1946.
        Surviving are his wife, Doris; three daughters, Sue and Bette Fleishman, both of Tucson, Ariz., and Judy Fleishman of Haverhill, Mass.
      