
        Paul Hill, the founder of the 160-voice Paul Hill Chorale and a leader in establishing Washington as one of the nation's principal centers for choral singing, died on Monday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 65.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his wife, Joyce, said.
        Mr. Hill formed the chorale, now called the Master Chorale of Washington, in 1967, and it quickly became one of Washington's leading groups. Its first performance was of Bach's motet ''Jesu, meine Freude'' at the National Cathedral, and it performed at the opening of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1971.
        For the Kennedy Center opening, Mr. Hill's chorus joined with the Choral Arts Society to sing ''A Free Song'' by William Schuman, one of the many modern pieces that Mr. Hill championed.
        Mr. Hill was born in Cincinnati and was raised and educated in Los Angeles, receiving a bachelor's degree in music from La Sierra College (now Loma Linda University) and a master's degree in church music from the University of Southern California.
        His wife recalled today that one of his early teaching jobs was directing a school band but that he was called upon in midyear to direct the choir when its director left.
        ''He loved the sound of the human voice so much that he never went back to the band,'' Mrs. Hill said.
        Mr. Hill then taught singing at Southwestern University in Keene, Tex., and at Columbia Union College in Takoma Park, Md., a Washington suburb. His wife said that he formed the chorale to give his graduating vocal students a place to continue their singing.
        Besides leading the Paul Hill Chorale, which was made up of 144 amateurs augmented by 16 paid professionals, Mr. Hill formed the 20-voice Washington Singers (now the Master Chorale Chamber Singers), one of the nation's few fully professional ensembles.
        In 1986, the Paul Hill Chorale sang the premiere of ''An American Oratorio'' by Ned Rorem, and in 1991 it celebrated its 25th anniversary with premieres of works it commissioned from Mr. Rorem, Libby Larsen and Gregg Smith.
        Illness forced Mr. Hill to yield his leadership of the singers to Donald J. McCullough in 1996, but he remained active as a consultant. Even when the disease left him mostly paralyzed, his wife said, he was able to write letters with a computer program with which he activated representations of typewriter keys on a screen by staring at the letters one by one.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by four children from a previous marriage, two daughters, Kathleen Clem of Apex, N.C., and Karen Hill of Forest Falls, Calif.; and two sons, Roger,  of Morganton, N.C., and Randall, of Hood River, Ore.; a sister, Carol Jean Kenaston of Inverness, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      