
        John R. Crews, who as an Army sergeant in World War II won the Medal of Honor by single-handedly capturing a German automatic-weapons position while severely wounded, died on Saturday in Oklahoma City, his hometown. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue.
        As springtime 1945 arrived, Allied forces crossed the Rhine and embarked on the climactic battles of the war in Europe. On April 8, Staff Sergeant Crews, a squad leader with the 253d Infantry Regiment, 63d Infantry Division, was advancing with his company toward the German village of Lobenbacherhof when his platoon leader was wounded by machine-gun and automatic-rifle fire from a hill on their right flank.
        Sergeant Crews rushed the German stronghold with two men. One was killed and the other badly wounded, but Sergeant Crews continued to advance up the hill in the face of heavy fire. Storming troops who were well dug in, he fired his M-1 rifle at point-blank range to kill two men of the machine-gun crew and grabbed a weapon from the hands of a German soldier he had wounded. Then he charged the automatic-rifle position, was badly wounded in the thigh from crossfire, but silenced that site with rifle fire.
        His actions so unnerved the remaining German soldiers that seven surrendered to him and the others fled. While the enemy was concentrating on Sergeant Crews's one-man onslaught, the other members of his company had moved into the village.
        When medics who came to Sergeant Crews's aid experienced difficulty keeping the prisoners under control, he grabbed a rifle while still on his stretcher and helped herd them off.
        On June 25, 1948, he received the Medal of Honor from President Harry S. Truman at the White House.
        John R. Crews, a native of Golden, Okla., joined the Army in December 1942. He served as a military policeman before entering combat in Europe in December 1944 with the 63d  Division. In addition to winning the Medal of Honor, he received the Silver Star and two Bronze Stars.
        After leaving military service at  war's end, he earned a bachelor's degree from Oklahoma City University and was a supervisor at a meat-products company in Oklahoma City.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Jon, of Oklahoma City, and Mark, of Colorado Springs, and two daughters, Phyllis Engle and Diana Moore, both of Oklahoma City, all from his marriage to the former Joan Adams, who died in 1996; a brother, Marion, of Chandler, Okla.; two sisters, Vera Ewbanks of Paragould, Ark., and Bernice Dawson of Richmond; a stepson, Mike Tuma, and a stepdaughter, Linda Robertson, both of Oklahoma City; 18 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
        For many years, Mr. Crews was reluctant to talk about his combat experiences. ''I didn't care whether anyone knew,'' he said in an interview with The Daily Oklahoman last May. ''It was difficult to talk about. It just left such an emotional load.'' But he took part in a tribute to Medal of Honor winners at Indianapolis over the last Memorial Day weekend and recently spoke to recruits at Fort Sill, Okla.
        In presenting him the Medal of Honor, President Truman asked, ''Where did you get the courage to fight like you did?''
        ''I learned at home, ''Mr. Crews replied, ''that you do everything you're told. I saw no difference in my military orders.''
      