
        Julius R. Lunsford Jr., a trademark lawyer who represented clients like the Coca-Cola Company, Little League baseball and the McIlhenny Company, the producer of Tabasco hot sauce, died Monday of emphysema at a hospice in Atlanta. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Lunsford, a graduate of Mercer University, joined Coca-Cola after receiving a degree from the University of Georgia's law school in 1936. He was a fixture in the company's legal department for the next 39 years, winning every case he tried in the continental United States, said his son, J. Rodgers Lunsford 3d.
        The elder Mr. Lunsford became trademark counsel for Coca-Cola and managed its Trademarks and Unfair Competition Department. The company's lawyers fought to block competitors, with names like Pepsi-Cola and Dixi-Cola, from capitalizing on Coca-Cola's popularity. Many of its legal battles centered around restaurant owners and others who substituted other products for Coca-Cola without telling their customers.
        Mr. Lunsford often referred to one case, known as the Coca-Cola Company v. Doris, as one of his finest accomplishments.
        In a ruling that still stands, a judge said that it was not enough for restaurants and bars to simply post signs declaring which cola they served; they were to announce to patrons that they did not serve Coca-Cola products, if that was the case.
        Mr. Lunsford, who was known for his quick smile and whose friends called him Lunce, registered the Coca-Cola bottle, with its contoured shape, on the principal register of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. He also registered the Pinch Scotch bottle. The bottles were the first containers to be listed on the principal register, his son said.
        Mr. Lunsford retired from Coca-Cola in 1975, taking a job at Browne, Beveridge, DeGrandi & Kline. ''People used to tease him that that was the only firm he could join after working at Coca-Cola -- Browne Beveridge,'' his son said. He remained with the firm, which eventually dropped the Browne to add Lunsford, until 1982. Five years later, he joined another Atlanta law firm, Jones, Askew, which eventually became Jones, Askew & Lunsford. He retired for good in 1992.
        His interests included cheering for the University of Georgia football team and the Atlanta Braves, as well as Little League baseball. He registered Little League's trademark in the United States and abroad, and attended the annual World Series in Williamsport, Pa. One of his major clients was the McIlhenny Company, makers of Tabasco sauce, which Mr. Lunsford represented for 25 years.
        He also lectured at the University of Georgia Law School and was an adjunct professor of law at Emory University and the Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer, where he was a trustee. He frequently testified in trademark cases as an expert. During World War II, he was a lawyer for the United States Naval Reserve in court-martial cases.
        In addition to his son Rodgers, who lives in Atlanta, he is survived by his wife, Mary Vann Lunsford of Atlanta; two other sons, Clark V. of Decatur, Ga., and Alan H. of Cumming, Ga., and three grandchildren.
      