
        Dmitri S. Likhachev, a Russian literary scholar revered as a guardian of national culture and a voice of reason and moral authority, died today in a hospital in St. Petersburg. He was 92 years old.
        During the past decade of turbulent change in Russia, Mr. Likhachev, a gentle, elegant man who spoke with the measured eloquence of the pre-Bolshevik intelligentsia, was frequently sought out by politicians and commentators as a referee in the churning debate over history.
        In the late 1980's, as the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev loosened the Communist Party's grip on culture and history, Mr. Likhakhev was enlisted as chairman of the newly established Soviet Cultural Fund, a foundation that sponsored cultural and restoration projects with active support from Mr. Gorbachev's wife, Raisa, who died last week.
        Born in 1906, the son of a St. Petersburg lithographer, Mr. Likhachev witnessed the 1917 Russian Revolution, the civil war and the subsequent economic and political upheavals that destroyed the society he was born into.
        While a student at Leningrad State University in 1928, he was arrested and sentenced to exile in the Solovetsky Islands, the most notorious of the early labor camps. Like so many arrests at the time, the reason was spurious: Mr. Likhachev was with some students who were celebrating an anniversary, and a friend sent them a telegram that pretended to be congratulations from the Pope. The entire group was arrested.
        From his four years in the camps, Mr. Likhachev gained first-hand knowledge of the brutality of the Soviet regime. In an incident that would haunt him through his life, he was selected to be shot in a random execution in 1929 in retribution for a mass escape. He spotted his name on the list and hid. For the rest of his life, he recounted in an interview years later, ''I have had to live two lives: my own and the life of a man whose name I do not even know.''
        In his final years, he also recalled how he made use of the experience, listening carefully and with fascination to the tales and the language of the common criminals who were mixed in with political prisoners.
        As a scholar, Mr. Likhachev was known for his work on Russian medieval literature. He returned from the camps to a job as a literary editor, and went on to become a researcher at the Institute of Russian Literature and a professor of history at Leningrad University. In 1970 he was made a full member of the Soviet Academy of Sciences.
        In his last years, Mr. Likhachev was a scholar-in-residence at Pushkin House -- the Institute of Russian Literature in St. Petersburg -- where he received a steady stream of visitors in a modest but handsomely decorated second-floor office with a view of the SS. Peter and Paul fortress.
        Mr. Likhachev was honored abroad for his work, and was made a corresponding member of the Austrian, American, British and Italian academies of arts and sciences.
        At home, where he was regarded with deep affection and awe by fellow intellectuals, he was presented last year with the order of St. Andrew, the first person to receive the czarist-era medal since 1917.
        ''It is the end of an era,'' said Vladimir Gusev, director of St. Petersburg's Russian Museum, commenting tonight in a television interview. ''I hope it is not the end of the era of cultured people. I hope he was not the last of the Mohicans.''
        Although he never was a political dissident like the late Andrei Sakharov, the physicist who won a Nobel Peace Prize, Mr. Likhachev, like Mr. Sakharov, became a reference point for Russians who, after the fall of Communism, were left trying to retrieve a cultural heritage that had been distorted by the Communist experience.
        Interviewed in 1985 by Moscow News, a newspaper that was then at the forefront of Mr. Gorbachev's campaign for ''glasnost'' or openness, Mr. Likhachev emphasized the importance of culture and history in the preservation of national consciousness.
        ''We should regard history from the 'observation platform' of our times,'' he said. ''And this platform is not immobile; it constantly rises higher and higher, opening ever new horizons before us. That is why the science of history can never be canned, or provide us with the ultimate truth.''
        Like other members of the Russian intelligentsia, Mr. Likhachev was deeply disappointed by the violence, greed and vulgarity that surfaced in Russian society after the fall of Communism.
        In an interview last year, he recalled how even his fellow inmates in the Solovetsky camp refused to associate with murderers. In modern Russia, he noted, people regard ''killers'' -- he used the English word -- as professionals like any other.
        He blamed this on decades of Communist rule that had subjected people to a twisted version of history. ''Morality was perverted,'' he said. ''Marxism reduced history to the most ignoble of motives.''
        But he remained a staunch defender of Russia's new freedoms, and dismissed popular nostalgia for the stability of the Soviet era. ''Imagine how it was here 10 years ago,'' he said, recalling the days of bugged telephones and informers who used to lurk outside his office door.
        In his last years, Mr. Likhachev continued to lobby the Russian Government on behalf of educational projects like the financing of a national television station devoted to culture.
        At a news conference last year, he stressed the moral imperative of maintaining and raising Russia's cultural standards. ''A lot of jealousy is the result of people not realizing themselves culturally,'' he said.
        But he was also critical of showcase projects, like the $350 million reconstruction of the Cathedral of Christ the Savior in Moscow, which he described as looking ''something like a prefab kit.''
        ''Spending so much money on a huge cathedral in the center of Moscow makes me embarrassed before the many parts of the country where there is not a church for hundreds of kilometers,'' he said.
      