
        Lord Lewin, the British seadog who is credited with engineering his country's victory over Argentina in the Falkland Islands war in 1982, died on Saturday in Woodbridge in the County of Suffolk in southeastern Britain, not far from the sea. He was 78.
        The cause was stomach cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        After four decades in the Royal Navy the future Lord Lewin was Admiral of the Fleet Sir Terence Thornton Lewin, chief of the British defense staff, when Argentina started the brief undeclared war by invading the Falklands, a crown colony, on April 2, 1982.
        The conflict was the outgrowth of longstanding claims to the 200 islands in the South Atlantic 300 miles east of the Strait of Magellan and 8,000 miles from Britain.
        After Britain regained the Falklands in June, Admiral Lewin retired, was made a life peer -- a baron -- and became Lord Lewin of Greenwich in Greater London.
        The admiral was in New Zealand in early April when Argentine forces occupied the islands, whose total area is 4,618 square miles. But he hastened back to a meeting of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's newly created War Cabinet, of which he was a member.
        Doggedly the admiral told the group, which included the Prime Minister: ''We must be prepared to take losses. But we are not going to lose. The only thing which will make us lose is if you lose your nerve.''
        But later he confessed that the truth was that his countrymen ''had no right to expect that we could succeed in this.''
        His advice won Mrs. Thatcher's confidence. What he said in the Cabinet's meetings gained weight from the fact that he had been through extensive naval combat in World War II, and he had been the respected contact man between the War Cabinet and the British task force whose ships set out for the islands.
        Swiftly, as M. L. Dockrill, an expert on British defense policy at King's College, London, has written, the British Government ''was able to muster an impressive naval armada that sailed to the Falklands.''
        The first ships put to sea less than a week after the invasion. Before long Britain mounted a sea blockade around the islands. On April 25, South Georgia Island, a dependency of the Falklands about 1,200 miles east of Cape Horn, was taken over by British commandos.
        On May 2, Admiral Lewin took a crucial step. Accounts differ somewhat, but The Independent reported on Monday, in an obituary on Lord Lewin, that he called the War Cabinet together and asked for a change in the ''rules of engagement'' -- governing the British forces' conduct of the war -- that would permit an attack on the Argentine cruiser, the General Belgrano, even outside the ''total exclusion zone'' that Britain had proclaimed in the region.
        The Prime Minister said yes, as The Independent put it, and ''the submarine Conqueror sunk the Belgrano, killing 368 of her sailors.''
        ''It was the turning point of the war,'' the paper said.
        Terence Lewin was born in the channel port of Dover, the son of Eric Lewin. He rose to be Chief of the Naval Staff and First Sea Lord from 1977 to 1979 and Chief of the Defense Staff from 1979 to 1982.
        He was made a Knight of the Order of the Garter in 1983. During retirement he was for more than 10 years president of the Shipwrecked Fishermen and Mariners' Royal Benevolent Association.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Jane Branch-Evans; two sons, and a daughter.
      