
        Hoyt Axton, the amiably growly singer, songwriter and movie actor who wrote the Three Dog Night hit ''Joy to the World,'' died yesterday at his ranch in Victor, Mont., The Associated Press reported. He was 61 and recently suffered two heart attacks.
        Mr. Axton's songs often had a wry sense of humor, and some referred openly to drugs; ''The No No Song,'' a 1975 hit for Ringo Starr, did both.
        Mr. Axton was the son of Mae Boren Axton, who had written the Elvis Presley song ''Heartbreak Hotel'' with Thomas Durden. He was born in Duncan, Okla., and took classical piano lessons but also played the guitar. He received a football scholarship to Oklahoma State University and entered the Navy after college.
        During the 1950's folk revival he began performing in West Coast coffeehouses and clubs. A song he wrote with Ken Ramsey, ''Greenback Dollar,'' became a hit for the Kingston Trio in 1962, and he made albums for small labels including Horizon, Vee-Jay and Exodus. He made an album for Columbia Records in 1969.
        His song ''The Pusher'' was recorded in 1968 for the debut album by Steppenwolf; in 1971, the group recorded another of Mr. Axton's antidrug songs, ''Snowblind Friend.'' As the 60's ended, he opened shows for Three Dog Night, and the band  recorded Mr. Axton's ''Joy to the World,'' which had been written for a children's television special but never used. It became a No. 1 hit and sold a million copies in 1971. Three Dog Night also recorded Mr. Axton's ''Never Been to Spain,'' which reached No. 5 in 1972.
        Mr. Axton made albums for Capitol, A & M and MCA in the 70's before starting his own label, Jeremiah (named after the bullfrog in ''Joy to the World''). He had moved toward country-rock, and his songs were heard on country radio stations. ''Boney Fingers,'' a duet with Linda Ronstadt, was a country hit in 1974.
        Mr. Axton produced the album ''Tales from the Ozone'' for Commander Cody and His Lost Planet Airmen in 1975. He had his biggest country hit in 1979 with ''Della and the Dealer.'' Meanwhile, his songs were recorded by Ms. Ronstadt, John Denver, Waylon Jennings and Glen Campbell.
        While Mr. Axton continued to tour and record, performing up to 300 shows a year, he also had a side career as an actor, playing portly good ol' boys on television and in movies. He had appeared on the series ''Bonanza'' in the 1960's, and he had roles in films including ''The Black Stallion,'' ''E.T.,'' ''Gremlins'' and ''We're No Angels.'' After playing a sheriff in the movie ''Disorganized Crime'' in 1988, he moved to Montana, where it was filmed.
        He is survived by his wife, Deborah, and five children.
      