
        Msgr. Jeremiah P. Monahan, who as chancellor of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York served as steward of the church's secular affairs, including financial matters, construction projects and administration, died Monday at a hospital in Manhattan.
        The chancellor, who was 65, entered the Weill Cornell Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital on Monday complaining of chest pain. Results of an autopsy were not available yesterday.
        John Cardinal O'Connor, the Archbishop of New York, who is recuperating from treatment for a brain tumor, issued a statement saying, ''At 7 o'clock in the morning he shared breakfast with those of us of the archbishop's residence in which he lived; at about 10 o'clock at night we learned of his death.''
        Monsignor Monahan had been chancellor since 1997, working in a post Cardinal O'Connor described yesterday as bearing ''the enormous responsibilities of guiding the financial and administrative support of this vast archdiocese, one of the largest and most complex in the United States.''
        Joseph Zwilling, the spokesman for the archdiocese, said, ''He oversaw the nearly 1,000 people who work in the Terrence Cardinal Cooke Catholic Center, the administrative headquarters of the archdiocese, and had the final say on any human resources policies affecting employees.''
        Though the 413 individual parishes control their budgets, ''He oversaw every departmental budget and set policies to make sure that the money was administered properly and efficiently,'' Mr. Zwilling said. Annual revenues are about $545 million; expenditures about $527 million.
        Born in Manhattan, Monsignor Monahan was educated at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx, Cathedral College Seminary in Manhattan and St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers. He was ordained by Francis Cardinal Spellman in 1960.
        Though he served as pastor of several churches in the city and suburbs early in his career, he spent most of it as an educator, first as an English teacher at Cardinal Hayes High School in the Bronx and then as its dean of discipline. He was revered for opening up the world to students who knew only their tough neighborhoods.
        In 1984 he became principal of Cardinal Spellman High School, also in the Bronx, where he made his mark as a fund-raiser, among other things.
        He became a monsignor in 1990.
        The chancellor is survived by three sisters, Patricia Paoli of Manhattan, Agnes O'Donohue of Burbank, Calif., and Catherine Lessuck of Port Reading, N.J., and a brother, Andrew Monahan of Yonkers.
      