
        Andras Hegedus, a former Prime Minister of Hungary whose political odyssey transformed him from a dogmatic Stalinist apparatchik into an outspoken -- and barely tolerated -- dissenter, died on Saturday. He was 76.
        Reporting from Budapest, The Associated Press said he had a heart ailment in recent years and was hospitalized weeks ago.
        Mr. Hegedus, who was born into rural poverty, turned to Communism in his youth and swiftly rose in the party and the Government after World War II. He became Minister of Agriculture in 1953 and held full membership in the Politburo. In 1955, at age 33, he became his country's youngest head of Government.
        In one of his country's periodic policy swings and shake-ups at the top, he replaced Imre Nagy, who had steered a new economic course to placate unhappy farmers and consumers. Mr. Hegedus represented Hungary when the Soviet-bloc states entered into the Warsaw Pact in response to West Germany's re-armament and admission to NATO.
        When the Hungarian uprising began in October 1956, Mr. Hegedus ceded the post of Prime Minister back to Mr. Nagy. The Soviet military stamped out the rebellion, and Mr. Nagy was later convicted of treason and executed in 1957 under the rule of Janos Kadar.
        Mr. Hegedus went into hiding in Moscow. As he observed the Soviet system, he began a conversion to what he later called revisionism. He was allowed to return to Budapest in 1958 and to work at the economic institute of the Academy of Sciences.
        The signs of his growing disaffection appeared in the numerous articles he contributed to publications as the Kadar Government relaxed economic and political controls. In 1968, for instance, Mr. Hegedus called for an end to the powers of the secret police, which, he wrote, rested on a myth of capitalist encirclement of the Soviet bloc.
        He fell out of favor that year when he protested the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia, in which Hungary took part. He was fired from his academic post and expelled from the Communist Party in 1973.
        As he became one of Hungary's best known dissidents, he wrote several books, some of which were published abroad and circulated underground in Hungary. Until the collapse of Communism, he also lectured to groups in private homes.
        His survivors include his six children, The Associated Press reported.
      