
        Gerald H. Trautman, a retired chairman, president and chief executive of the Greyhound Corporation, died Monday at a hospital in Phoenix, where he lived. He was 87.
        In 1966, Mr. Trautman, a lawyer, took over the struggling bus company and built it largely through acquisitions in the 1970's, when conglomerates were popular. By the time he retired in 1982, Greyhound was one of the 50 largest corporations in the nation.
        Under Mr. Trautman, Greyhound bought Armour/Dial, a meat processor and soap maker twice its size, and made other acquisitions, large and small, in fields as diverse as car rentals and financial services. At one point, he directed 150 companies with 57,000 employees.
        Greyhound is now part of the Viad Corporation, which also owns a share of the Arizona Diamondbacks professional baseball team.
        Gerald Hough Trautman was born on Aug. 27, 1912, in Petoskey, Mich. He graduated from Stanford University and earned a law degree at Harvard Law School. He practiced law in San Francisco, and during World War II, he served in the Navy's Adjutant General Corps.
        As a lawyer in San Francisco, Mr. Trautman represented Greyhound, among other companies. He later became the vice president and general counsel of Greyhound and negotiated numerous acquisitions.
        In 1966, Mr. Trautman phased out his law practice to become president of Greyhound and later its chairman and chief executive. He also moved the corporate headquarters to Phoenix from Chicago in 1971.
        Mr. Trautman retired from Greyhound in 1982, but continued to serve on its board, as well as on the boards of 20th Century Fox, Lehman Brothers, the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Salk Institute.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; six sons, Gerald H. Trautman Jr. of Newport Beach, Calif., William E. Trautman of San Francisco, Tucker K. Trautman of Denver, Timothy Trautman of Los Angeles, and Christopher and Thomas Trautman of Phoenix, and eight grandchildren.
      