
        The Rev. Leonard E. Boyle, the former keeper of manuscripts and chief librarian of the Vatican Library, who was dismissed from his post in 1997, died on Monday in Rome. He was 75.
        Father Boyle died of cancer, said Ambrogio Piazzoni, vice prefect of the Vatican Library.
        The library is one of the world's greatest storehouses of ancient books and manuscripts. Whether because of carelessness, shadowy ecclesiastical politics or plain bad luck, Father Boyle, a highly respected Oxford-trained paleographer, or student of manuscripts, became involved in several imbroglios toward the end of his 13-year tenure as keeper that tarnished an otherwise sterling reputation and led to his dismissal.
        Vatican officials refuse to discuss the circumstances surrounding Father Boyle's departure. Mr. Piazzoni would only say: ''Everyone has to leave some time.''
        Others outside the Vatican were more forthcoming. ''What goes on inside the Vatican is anybody's guess, but Father Boyle's opening of access to materials in the library must have played a role in his departure,'' said James H. Marrow, an emeritus professor of art history at Princeton University who has worked at the Vatican Library. ''He had a great impact on the place.''
        Friends and supporters praise Father Boyle for having computerized the library's ancient catalogues, wired the main reading room for laptops, hired women for the first time and liberalized the strict dress code. Others suggest that the liberalization measures and Father Boyle's trustfulness were the seeds of his downfall.
        In May 1995 Anthony Melnikas, a professor of art at Ohio State University, was found to have stolen from the Vatican Library two leaves from a medieval manuscript once owned by Petrarch, the 14th-century Italian poet. Professor Melnikas was sentenced to 14 months in prison.
        Father Boyle was stunned by the theft by a man he considered a friend; he was criticized as an unwitting accomplice for having granted Professor Melnikas many special privileges in the library, including allowing him the free run of the institution in August, when it is closed to the general public.
        In 1996, a year after the Melnikas affair, the Vatican was obliged to pay $8.8 million plus $1.3 million in attorneys' fees to settle a lawsuit stemming from Father Boyle's sale to a California entrepreneur of exclusive world rights to reproduce the images in the Library.
        His object, he insisted, had been to raise money to pay for a modernization program, but the Holy See accused him of acting without authority -- a charge he contested. Father Boyle's offer to take early retirement in order to discourage gossip was not accepted; he was dismissed three weeks before the 13th anniversary of his arrival.
        Leonard Eugene Boyle was born on Nov. 13, 1923, in Ballintra, County Donegal, Ireland. He was educated in Gaelic and entered the Dominican order at Cork in 1943. He then went to Oxford University, where he discovered his passion for medieval manuscripts. He was ordained a priest in 1949 and soon became a widely published and prize-winning scholar.
        Moving to Toronto, he taught at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, and in 1961 also taught at the neighboring Center for Medieval Studies at the University of Toronto. He was employed by the Vatican Library in 1984.
        A playfully witty man, Father Boyle disparaged suggestions that he might be positioning himself to become a cardinal. ''I'm not interested in some second-rate job,'' he said.  ''The papacy or nothing!''
      