
        Robert Edward Blum, a retired business executive and civic leader who was an early problem solver for Lincoln Center, died Friday at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 100.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Blum graduated from Yale University in 1921, and the following year joined Abraham & Straus, the Brooklyn department store founded by his grandfather, Abraham Abraham. He retired in 1964 as a vice president and secretary, also serving as a director and vice president of Federated Department Stores from 1944 to 1965.
        After ending his full-time business career, he continued as a director on several corporate boards and worked with community agencies, especially in the environmental field. He also maintained his interest in New York City's many cultural institutions.
        Mr. Blum had an early role in the development of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, serving as treasurer from 1956 to 1963. He had been a director emeritus since 1969.
        He was elected honorary trustee of the American Museum of Natural History in 1970, crowning his nearly 50 years of support for the institution. He became a trustee of the Brooklyn Museum of Art and remained a member of its advisory board and honorary trustee until his death.
        He also had ties for many years with the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Public Library, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Brooklyn Children's Museum, the New York Zoological Society and the College of the Atlantic in Mount Desert, Me. He was a past president of the Art Commission of the City of New York, and a founder of the Bahamas National Trust and the Maine Community Foundation.
        He held offices at the New York Community Trust, the New York State Board of Social Welfare and the National Institute of Social Services.
        Mr. Blum is survived by a son, John R. H. Blum, and a daughter, Alice E. B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville, Conn.; nine grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren. His wife, Ethel Halsey Blum, died in 1991 after 63 years of marriage.
      