
        James Velez, a medical riddle who inexplicably scratched himself to the point of self-mutilation and who was the center of one of the most ambitious attempts to attain an independent life for a profoundly disabled individual, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 25 and lived in Queens.
        The cause of death was infections of the blood and spine, his parents said.
        For reasons no one understood, Mr. Velez felt as if a million bugs crawled over him. To quiet his torment, he scratched himself so tenaciously that he ripped open his skin, even though he fell within the range of what is considered average intelligence and was aware of the damage he was inflicting. Since the age of 7, he was marooned in institutions, including a place that gave him electric shocks as part of its behavioral therapy.
        As he grew older, he desperately longed for a commonplace life like everyone else. As he once put it, ''I want to have my own place where I can put posters on the wall and I can turn my music up as loud as I want and I can have friends over.''
        In 1994, a small Manhattan social service agency, Job Path, began a tortuous effort to answer his wishes and thereby to test the possibilities for the most shunned of the developmentally disabled. In November 1996, the agency moved him into his own apartment in Queens. The effort to gain his release and his first year of independent living were chronicled in a series of articles published in The New York Times.
        Mr. Velez was a diminutive man, alternately sardonic and endearing, heavily scarred from his assaults. He was born in Brooklyn in 1974. His parents, Daisy and Julio Velez, found themselves depleted in their struggle to care for him. He had a high tolerance for pain and would break his bones and tear off his fingernails as well as scratch himself. Exhausted as much as they were heartbroken, his parents reluctantly put their son in an institution, always hopeful that one day he would get out.
        Once he did, after 15 years of exclusion, Mr. Velez experienced sharp mood swings, but he made pronounced progress. The first year in his Queens apartment, he got a part-time job at a video store and took driving lessons. He gained enough control of his impulse to scratch that he went to movies and stores unaccompanied by any of the aides assigned to him.
        At the end of 1997, however, a leg infection brought on by his scratching sent him to the hospital and nearly killed him. But he made a remarkable recovery and returned to his independent life.
        The infection persisted. It invaded his bones and spine. When he was hospitalized in February, his legs became paralyzed. At the end of July, in need of full-time nursing care, he moved into the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center.
        Although Mr. Velez had periods when the bugs that he sensed relented, his expanded life failed to halt his attacks on himself. But the setbacks never crushed his spirit. Until about two months ago, he frequently ate out and attended movies and parties. ''The happiest thing is to have a place that's mine,'' he said earlier this year. ''My room, my stuff, my life.''
        He is survived by his parents and his younger sister, Lydia.
        ''Though James's health did not ultimately improve, he had the life he wanted,'' said Fredda Rosen, the executive director of Job Path. ''Things turned out not to be as simple as we first thought. For the last few years, though, I think that James had the best life that he could have. If that's what this experiment proves, that's a lot.''
        After learning about Mr. Velez's improved life, dozens of families asked Job Path for a similar experience for their own disabled children. The work with Mr. Velez has led the agency to shift its focus to finding apartments for other severely developmentally disabled people living in institutions or with aging parents. It intends to move three more people into their own places before the end of this year. Within three years, it hopes to support as many as 30.
        ''James paved the way,'' Ms. Rosen said. ''What he did will change other people's lives.''
      