
        Rafael Alberti, one of Spain's most popular poets and the last member of the ''Generation of 1927,'' a group of artists whose ranks included the poet Federico Garcia Lorca and the film director Luis Bunuel, died today at his home in El Puerto de Santa Maria, in southern Spain. He was 96.
        Mr. Alberti wrote more than a dozen books of poetry and in 1983 was the recipient of the Spanish Government's Miguel de Cervantes Literature Prize.
        King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia and Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar wired their condolences to the Alberti family today, state-run television reported.
        Mr. Alberti spent 38 years in exile after Gen. Francisco Franco's troops won the Spanish Civil War in 1939. He returned to Spain in 1977 and was elected that year as a Communist Party member of Parliament, representing Cadiz. He later resigned his seat to give poetry readings, which attracted large crowds.
        Mr. Alberti was born Dec. 16, 1902, in El Puerto de Santa Maria, near Cadiz, to a family of prosperous wine merchants. Cadiz and its shimmering bay were constant reference points in his work. His first book of poems, ''Marinero en Tierra'' (''Sailor on Dry Land''), written when he was 23, won him Spain's national literature prize in 1925 and lasting fame. In it, he called on readers to be:
        On alert, for in these eyes of the South, and in this song, I bring you all of the sea.
        Look at me, the sea is passing by.
        Four years later he published what many critics consider his masterpiece, ''Sobre los Angeles'' (''Concerning the Angels''). Garcia Lorca had that same year produced ''Romancero Gitano'' (''Gypsy Ballads''), and for many critics the two books marked the high point of modern Spanish lyricism.
        With his friend Lorca, Mr. Alberti shared a passion for the Andalusia region in southern Spain, and their poetry drew upon its colors, sights and sounds.
        During the 1920's, Mr. Alberti met Lorca, Salvador Dali and other artists connected to Madrid's famed Student Residence. Together, their artistic movement became known as the Generation of 1927. The group produced poetry unparalleled since the golden age of Spanish literature. Among its members, in addition to Lorca and Mr. Alberti, were Damaso Alonso, Pedro Salinas, Jorge Guillen, Luis Cernuda and the Nobel laureate Vicente Aleixandre.
        Mr. Alberti became a strong supporter of the Spanish Republic when it was formed in 1931 and a staunch anti-fascist when the civil war broke out in 1936. He fought in the air force against Franco. He also toured the Republican lines giving poetry readings and became a major propagandist for the Loyalists.
        Mr. Alberti's interest in theater was strong even in the 1930's, when he created the ''Guerrillas del Teatro'' to entertain troops fighting Franco. As a playwright, his work included ''Noche de guerra en el Museo del Prado'' (''Night of War in the Prado Museum''), which had its premiere in Italy in 1973. He won Spain's national theater prize in 1980.
        Lorca was executed by fascist troops in 1936 in Granada. After the Loyalists were defeated, Mr. Alberti and his first wife, the writer Maria Teresa Leon, began a life in exile in 1939 that took them to Paris, Buenos Aires and elsewhere in Latin America, and to Rome. Their home in Rome became a rendezvous for Spaniards opposed to or stifled by the Franco dictatorship.
        Mr. Alberti's work includes ''Vida bilingue de un exiliado espanol en Francia'' (''Bilingual Life of a Spanish Refugee in France''), ''La Amante'' (''The Lover'') and ''Trece barras y 48 estrellas'' (''Thirteen Bands and 48 Stars''), the latter written in the 1930's to criticize American imperialism. But he also wrote poems of passion, as in the book ''Entre el Clavel y la espada'' (''Between Sword and Carnation''):
        A carnation goes on a trip
        A carnation goes traveling
        From the legs, the sea is above
        From the breasts, the sea is below
        Mr. Alberti and his first wife had one daughter, Aitana, born in 1941 in Argentina. Ms. Teresa Leon died in 1988, and in 1990 Mr. Alberti married Maria Asuncion Mateo, a writer about 40 years younger who had studied his work extensively.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a stepdaughter, a stepson and two grandchildren.
      