
        Dr. Theodor H. Benzinger, a medical researcher who invented the ear thermometer and a device to measure calorie loss, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94.
        Dr. Benzinger worked at the Naval Medical Research Institute in Bethesda from 1947 to 1970. He studied temperature regulation and helped create the related field of biothermodynamics. And he held patents on 40 inventions, the most famous the ear thermometer, which he developed in 1964.
        A former colleague, Dr. Lutz A. Kiesow, said Dr. Benzinger had been  keenly interested in how the body maintains its narrow range of temperature, and in its deviations during fever and hypothermia.
        He developed the ear thermometer while searching for a way to take a person's temperature and get a reading as close as possible to the brain temperature, which regulates the core body temperature and is found in the hypothalamus, at the base of the brain.
        Because the hypothalamus and the eardrum share blood vessels, Dr. Benzinger decided to use the ear canal to take a reading, Dr. Kiesow said.
        Previously, attaching electrodes to the hypothalamus was the only way to get a brain temperature reading.  Dr. Benzinger once had electrodes implanted in his hypothalamus, Dr. Kiesow said, to compare his brain temperature and the temperature of his eardrum.
        Until Dr. Benzinger's invention,  temperatures could be routinely taken only by inserting a thermometer into the mouth or the rectum or under the arm. But ''the ear is clearly the best, because it most closely correlates to the brain temperature,'' said Dr. Kiesow, chief of research at Legacy Health Systems, a hospital group in Portland, Ore.
        A few years earlier, working in the field of chemical thermodynamics, Dr. Benzinger developed the microcalorimeter, a device that measures small amounts of heat given off in a chemical reaction.
        ''It is a very important phenomenon,'' Dr. Kiesow said, ''as it shows why chemical reactions proceed and how much they proceed.''
        Dr. Benzinger then built a larger version of the microcalorimeter, the human calorimeter, which measures the amount of heat radiating from a person.
        Theodor Hannes Benzinger was born in Stuttgart, Germany, on April 13, 1905. He graduated from the University of Tubingen and earned a medical degree at the University of Freiburg, where he did research before becoming director of the medical department of the German air forces testing center in 1934.
        Over the next decade and throughout World War II, Dr. Benzinger, who was also a test pilot, researched issues like decompression and high-altitude physiology. He discovered, for example, that it is air embolisms that sometimes cause death in explosions.
        ''Following a blast,'' Dr. Kiesow explained, ''a pressure wave leads to a rapid expansion and contraction of blood vessels in the lungs.''
        Dr. Benzinger came to the United States in 1947 and was naturalized in 1955. After retiring from the Naval Medical Research Institute in 1970 as director of the bioenergetics division, he worked for four years at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in Gaithersburg, Md. It was there that he developed the Planck-Benzinger equation, which modified the second law of thermodynamics.
        The second law of thermodynamics essentially states that nothing lasts, because friction reduces energy in a process called entropy. The Planck-Benzinger modification introduced important new mathematical components that affect the energy balance in calculations involving the basic thermodynamic equation.
        Dr. Benzinger is survived by his wife, Dr. Maria Benzinger, of Bethesda; four children, Rolf Benzinger of Charlottesville, Va., Angela Klose of Bad Soden, Germany, Monika Uttermann of Bad Honnef, Germany, and Fay Ann Benzinger-Wilson of Bethesda; a stepson, Robert Henke of Lutherville, Md.; a sister, Maja Ottens of Kirchheim, Germany; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      