
        Francis Whitaker, a blacksmith who never shod a horse but who helped preserve the 3,000-year-old craft of molding iron and elevated it to the level of an art, died Oct. 23 at a hospital in Glenwood Springs, Colo. He was 92.
        Before his own proficiency and that of the hundreds he would teach brought him fame, he studied as an apprentice with the great smiths of Europe and America. Over his long career, he hammered thousands upon thousands of iron bars into artistic shapes to adorn buildings throughout the United States. And in his 70's, when the craft appeared to be dying, he began a mission to pass his Old World techniques and esthetics to young smiths lured by the magical malleability of the metal. Just a month ago, he helped his son Stephen fashion andirons for a house he was building in California.
        At his explicit request, he grasped a hammer at the moment of his death.
        ''Iron has a strength no other material has,'' Mr. Whitaker once said, ''and yet it has a capacity for being light, graceful and beautiful. It has this capacity -- but no desire. It will do nothing by itself except resist you.
        ''All the desire, and all the knowledge of how to impart this desire to the iron, must come from the smith.''
        Some of Mr. Whitaker's thousands of delicate, oddly fluid creations can be seen at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on Liberty Street in Manhattan, as well as at the former Central Savings Bank building at Broadway and 73d Street; on the intricate gates of the Spanish Revival homes of Carmel, Calif., and on a balcony in Aspen, Colo., that is so sensitively made it appears almost feathery.
        Mr. Whitaker, a big, robust man with appropriately bulging biceps, was named a National Heritage Fellow by the National Endowment for the Arts in 1997, but his proudest achievement was working with the hundreds of young artisans eager to follow in his footsteps. He and the handful of other surviving blacksmiths had feared that the acetylene torch and the arc welder, tools developed during World War II, would make working iron as simple as cutting wood or putting a jigsaw puzzle together. Efficiency threatened art.
        But by 1976, increasing numbers of young blacksmiths were banding together to preserve ornamental blacksmithing, an architectural tradition with roots going back to 14th-century Europe. At a conference of the new Artist-Blacksmith Association of North America, Mr. Whitaker had a sort of epiphany.
        ''By the end of the conference,'' he said, ''I knew I had a mission. I had never seen so many people hungry for knowledge.''
        He established the Francis Whitaker Blacksmith Schools, one at the Rocky Mountain School in Carbondale, Colo., where he lived, and one at the John C. Campbell Folk School in Brasstown, N.C. He taught at more than 150 blacksmith workshops and wrote many articles and a book, ''The Blacksmith's Cookbook: Recipes in Iron.'' He corresponded extensively with many aspiring blacksmiths.
        ''If it wasn't for Frank, nobody would be doing this as a profession or even as a token craft,'' said Dorothy Stiegler, a blacksmith who lives in Carmel.
        She remembered him telling her how a great blacksmith must look at a hunk of iron and perceive a candlestick or an animal head hidden in the middle. She also recalled him as an exacting taskmaster. ''Now make 100 of these and you'll probably have it,'' he would say after a lesson.
        The effect was to help rescue a dying profession. ''It really was on the wane,'' said Tom Joyce, a 43-year-old blacksmith in Santa Fe who was heartily encouraged by Mr. Whitaker. ''There weren't many blacksmiths of his generation who were willing to share information like that.''
        Mr. Whitaker was born in Woburn, Mass. His father was an architecture critic who became the first editor of the Journal of the American Institute of Architects. His mother, a suffragist who was once beaten in a demonstration, demanded that her four children know the value of hard work and taught them to cook, wash dishes and darn socks.
        By the end of his junior year at an Alabama boarding school, Mr. Whitaker had had enough of formal education. Through his father's connections, he was accepted as an apprentice by Samuel Yellin in Philadelphia, perhaps America's most famous architectural blacksmith at the time. He brought few preconceptions.
        ''All I knew about blacksmiths at that time was that they were usually brawny men who sweated a lot and they put shoes on horses,'' he said.
        He was dissatisfied with being part of a 200-person shop with large commissions from the Federal Government, because he had no opportunity to take a project through to completion. So after completing that apprenticeship, he went to Berlin as an apprentice to Julius Schramm, also a master blacksmith. In addition to sharpening his skills, he became interested in designing artistic ironwork.
        He then found his way to Carmel, where enthusiasm for Spanish Revival architecture was strong in the 1920's and 30's and where he found a ready market for his ironwork.
        During World War II, Mr. Whitaker taught welding in shipyards. He became friends with John Steinbeck, with whom he played cards on the beach. He inspired the pivotal character in Steinbeck's story ''The Chrysanthemums,'' and was also the model for the heroic Connor Larkin in the Leon Uris novel ''Trinity.''
        Always a strong environmentalist, he was on the City Council in Carmel, as he was in Aspen, where he moved in 1963, when he began to feel that Carmel was losing its small-town charm. After he questioned the commercialism of Aspen, he moved to Carbondale in 1988.
        While in Aspen, he married Portia Curlee, who traveled to blacksmithing events with him. She died in 1988. He is survived by a son, Stephen, of Davis, Calif., and a daughter, Sheila Hutchins, of Monterey, Calif.
        He is also survived by four stepsons, all of whom have the last name Curlee: Charles, of Houston; Paul, of Grand Junction, Colo.; John, of Eagan, Minn., and James, of South Bend, Ind.
        Sarah Harkins, a good friend of 50 years, said she and Mr. Whitaker had been planning a train trip to Spain this summer, like many train trips they had taken.
        His brother Rogers, a writer for The New Yorker magazine, who died in 1981, had been one of the world's most famous train travelers, logging 2.7 million miles by rail during his lifetime. He wrote about the trips under the pseudonym E. M. Frimbo.
        Relatives and friends recalled Francis Whitaker's words before his recent stomach surgery.. ''Fix it,'' Mr. Whitaker told his doctors. ''There is still so much I have to do.''
      