
        William Milfred Batten, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and a former chairman and chief executive of the J. C. Penney Company, died on Friday in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 89.
        Mr. Batten, who was often called Mil, became only the second paid chairman of the New York exchange in May 1976 after his retirement from Penney. While his original $2 million contract to head the Big Board expired in May 1981, it was extended another three years.
        As chairman, Mr. Batten oversaw a $70 million renovation of the exchange floor and the installation of electronic equipment that tripled the daily trading capacity to 150 million shares. Other changes during his chairmanship included development of a subsidiary, the New York Futures Exchange, which was later sold, and work on a system linking price and volume information for all stock exchanges.
        Before Mr. Batten took over the exchange, it faced criticism that it was dominated by securities industry insiders and calls that specialist who match buy and sell orders should be replaced by computers. The exchange was also under fire from the Government for not moving fast enough to develop a unified national market system.
        Amid such turmoil, James J. Needham, the exchange's first paid chairman, resigned in 1976 with almost two years remaining on his contract. The abolition of fixed brokerage commissions on stock transactions a year earlier had slashed the profits of many Wall Street firms, leading to a number of mergers and closings. And the stock market was still shunned by many investors who had lost 40 or 50 percent of their investments in the severe bear market of 1974. Other investors were turning to other forms of investment, including commodity futures contracts and stock options, which were not available on the New York exchange.
        Partly because of Mr. Batten's ability as a low-key diplomat, the exchange installed enough computer systems to improve efficiency yet retain specialists, whose job is to insure orderly buying and selling of stocks. He also calmed the concerns of regulators in Washington and worked to include traders and member brokerage firms of the Big Board in making decisions.
        Mr. Batten became J. C. Penney's fourth chairman in 1964. As head of the store chain, he presided over its transformation from a company of Main Street merchants primarily in small towns into a diversified, mass merchandiser primarily in shopping malls. As a result, his predecessor, A. W. Hughes, referred to Mr. Batten as ''the chief architect of the new Penney company.''
        He was also responsible for a significant expansion of the merchandising line, the introduction of the Penney credit card and the company's entry into the catalogue business.
        Mr. Batten began his career with Penney in 1926 as a part-time salesman in his hometown of Parkersburg, W. Va. In 1935, he was offered a full-time job in Penney's store in Lansing, Mich., at $70 a month. He was told that this would be enough to live on until he proved he was worth more.
        A veteran of World War II, Mr. Batten moved to Penney's New York office in 1945. He became vice president of the company in 1953 and a member of the board in 1955. He was named president and chief executive in 1958. In 1964, he became chairman. Although he reached retirement age in 1969, he was asked to stay on, remaining until 1974.
        Mr. Batten received a Bachelor of Science in economics from Ohio State University in 1932 and did graduate work at the University of Chicago. From 1984 to 1986, Mr. Batten was a fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He also served on the boards of numerous corporations including AT&T, Boeing and Texas Instruments.
        He is survived by his wife, Kathryn; a son, David, of Palma de Mallorca, Spain; a daughter, Jane Wild of Lawrence, Kan.; a sister, Francis Young of Akron, Ohio; two grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      