
        Francis C. Turner, often called the chief engineer of the Interstate System of highways that redrew the map of America, died on Saturday at a hospice in Goldsboro, N.C. He was 90.
        Mr. Turner was the only person to rise through the ranks to head the Federal Highway Administration; he worked 43 years there and at its predecessor, the Bureau of Roads.
        His career began in the late 1920's, when many of the nation's highways were not yet paved. It ended in the early 1970's, when much of the Interstate System was close to completion and was drawing heavy criticism along with heavy traffic.
        ''Frank Turner was an old-school engineer; Frank believed in the traffic count as the guide to highway building,'' said Mark H. Rose, professor of history at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton and the author of ''Interstate: Express Highway Politics 1939-1989'' (University of Tennessee Press 1990). ''And that put him at the center of major controversies by the late 60's.''
        ''His philosophy was that if you can get enough trucks and cars there, you should have a highway there,'' Professor Rose said.
        He added that Mr. Turner was steadfast in his desire to serve motorists but that his mission sometimes drew the ire of environmentalists, who saw the Interstate System as exacerbating automobile pollution, and of inner-city residents, who saw the superhighways carving through their neighborhoods, displacing longtime residents or carrying away shoppers to the suburbs.
        Even so, the Interstate System, created to bolster the military mobility of the United States as well as to cater to its growing population, remains one of the most popular and most used engineering achievements in the nation's history.
        ''Mr. Turner was truly an agent of change,'' the Secretary of Transportation, Rodney Slater, said in a speech on Sunday. ''He pioneered development of the nation's surface transportation system as we know it today, and set the Interstate highway system on course for America.''
        Francis Cutler Turner was born in Dallas on Dec. 28, 1908, reared in Texas and graduated from what is now Texas A&M University in 1929. He then joined the Bureau of Public Roads as a junior engineer and rose to area engineer in Little Rock, Ark. Along the way, he also picked up an advanced degree in civil engineering from Texas A&M.
        In 1943 Mr. Turner was chosen to hasten the construction of the Alaska Highway, a 1,523-mile gravel road between Dawson Creek, British Columbia and Fairbanks, Alaska, to support military forces in Alaska during World War II. In 1946 he went to the Philippines, where he helped restore bridges and roads damaged in the war.
        In 1950 Mr. Turner became an assistant to the bureau commissioner, Thomas MacDonald, who made him coordinator for the Inter-American Highway.
        Mr. Turner was selected in 1954 by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to be executive secretary to the President's Advisory Committee on a National Highway Program, also known as the Clay committee; it was headed by Lucius D. Clay, a retired Army general who was chairman of the Continental Can Company and a longtime associate of the President. The committee was charged with developing a financing mechanism for a highway system similar to the German Autobahn, which had impressed Eisenhower in World War II.
        Mr. Turner was chosen because, unlike the committee members, who were corporate or labor leaders, he had nuts-and-bolts knowledge of highway finance and construction as well as access to resources at the Bureau of Public Roads. He could also act as a liaison between the bureau and the Congressional committees that were writing the legislation for the Interstate System.
        From 1957 to 1969, Mr. Turner, under a variety of titles, was the chief negotiator in resolving many of the project disputes that erupted over the Interstate construction; he was also a power broker, helping to control billions in highway financing. In 1969 he was appointed as the Federal highway administrator; he retired in 1972.
        Though Mr. Turner was largely an administrator late in his career, he took great pride in his planning skills, an article in American Heritage magazine said. His early surveys for the Interstate System broke the nation down into grids, and residents were polled on their desired traffic patters. He then drew what he called ''desire lines'' on a national map. Those lines became I-95, I-10, I-395 and on and on and on.
        Today the Interstate System, which is 99.9 percent complete, comprises 42,000 miles and has cost $130 billion in Federal and state money.
        The Federal Highway Research Center in McLean, Va., was named in Mr. Turner's honor, and in 1994 American Heritage magazine named him one of 10 relatively unknown people who changed the world in the previous 40 years.
        Mr. Turner lived in Arlington, Va., until two years ago, when he moved to Goldsboro. His wife, Mable, died in 1982. He is survived by a daughter, Beverly Cooke of Hot Springs Village, Ark.; two sons, Marvin, of Goldsboro, a retired Air Force major, and James, of Dahlonega, Ga.; a sister, eight grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      