
        Martin S. Davis, the fiery executive who reshaped the unwieldy conglomerate Gulf and Western Industries into the entertainment and publishing giant Paramount Communications, died Monday in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Jerry Sherman, a spokesman for the Davis family.
        From a start in 1947 as a $35-a-week office boy at the New York headquarters of Samuel Goldwyn Productions, Mr. Davis climbed to the top of the entertainment and corporate worlds. Along the way, he shepherded the careers of some of the entertainment industry's top executives, including Michael Eisner, Barry Diller, Brandon Tartikoff and Jeffrey Katzenberg.
        That many executives who worked for Mr. Davis gained their greatest successes after departing his company is testament to Mr. Davis's legendary temper, which he described as an unwillingness to brook what he saw as shortcomings among those who worked for him.
        ''If I'm considered a tough manager, I think it is accurate; I won't object, '' he told The New York Times in 1986. ''I am demanding. I want team players, I want results.''
        A propensity to never shy away from a fight led Mr. Davis into public tangles with renowned corporate takeover artists like Carl Icahn and Carl Lindner, both Gulf and Western shareholders. And Mr. Davis's ultimately unsuccessful 11th-hour bid in 1989 to take Time Inc. out of the hands of Warner Communications was a fitting coda to the great takeover battles of the 1980's.
        Mr. Davis long maintained that each of his decisions was made with a single purpose: to produce the greatest possible value for public shareholders. And by that measure, he accomplished much. From the time he assumed control of Gulf and Western in 1983 until he sold the company, renamed Paramount Communications, to Viacom Inc. in 1994, the value of Paramount's shares increased at more than double the rate of the stock market.
        Upon taking over Gulf and Western after the death of Charles Bluhdorn, the company chairman, Mr. Davis began selling businesses. At the time, ''the company's operations literally spanned the alphabet, from A to Z, auto parts to zinc,'' Mr. Davis said in 1987.
        Among the industries in which Gulf and Western had a stake were agricultural products, metals and chemicals, financial services, motion pictures and auto parts distribution.
        Mr. Davis's divestitures reaped nearly $3 billion in cash for the company, much of which he used to repurchase stock. And while undertaking the sales, the company still managed to record earnings growth of 30 percent a year.
        ''The assets that he kept, he managed reasonably well, and the segments flourished,'' said Mario J. Gabelli, a mutual fund manager who was a longtime Paramount shareholder. ''But he did lose some good people who went out and became very successful elsewhere.''
        A native of the Bronx, Mr. Davis attended the City College of New York and New York University, but did not graduate. At 20, he joined Goldwyn's publicity department, where he clipped newspaper articles. After working his way up to assistant to the president, he joined Allied Artists Pictures in 1955 as Eastern advertising and publicity manager. Three years later, he moved to Paramount.
        Gulf and Western completed its acquisition of Paramount in 1966, and soon Mr. Davis was all but anointed the heir to Mr. Bluhdorn. While serving in the legal, human resources, corporate finance and general administration departments, Mr. Davis gave few hints that much of his business acumen was self-taught. A favorite practice, colleagues said, was to quote articles from legal journals to lawyers hired to advise the company.
        A four-year investigation of the company's financial and accounting practices by the Securities and Exchange Commission resulted in civil charges of fraud against the company and two of its top officers in 1979.
        It was left to Mr. Davis to try to keep Gulf and Western's image from being too tarnished by the allegations, and he largely succeeded. In October 1981, the company and the officers reached a settlement with the S.E.C. that called for no restitution, although Gulf and Western agreed to adopt new accounting procedures and to make changes to its corporate bylaws.
        Mr. Davis ascended to the chairman's post as two trends were emerging in corporate America: the dominance of service companies over manufacturing industries, and the failure of the conglomerate. He overhauled Gulf and Western's structure to focus on three businesses -- entertainment and publishing, consumer and commercial finance, and consumer and industrial products.
        In 1985, the consumer and industrial products group was sold for $1 billion. And in 1989 the remainder of the financial unit, Associates First Capital, was sold. The company, which was renamed Paramount Communications, retained film and television studios, the publisher Simon & Schuster, and entertainment properties including the USA Network and Madison Square Garden.
        In 1993, as Mr. Davis entertained an offer to merge with Viacom, Barry Diller, then the chairman of QVC and one of Mr. Davis's former subordinates, began a bidding war for Paramount. Though ultimately won by Viacom, the battle produced a debt-burdened company that did not have room for Mr. Davis.
        Since 1995, Mr. Davis had been a managing partner of Wellspring Capital Management, a private investment firm in New York.
        Mr. Davis is survived by his second wife, Luella Davis, and a son,  Philip, of Arlington, Va.
      