
        Edward C. Banfield, a professor emeritus of government at Harvard University whose work on urban policy and the causes of poverty gave him a reputation as a brilliant maverick, died Sept. 30 at his summer home in Vermont. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Mr. Banfield, born on a farm in Bloomfield, Conn., held Harvard's Henry Lee Shattuck Chair in Government for many years. He was one of the intellectual leaders of the Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology Joint Center for Urban Studies in the 1960's and 70's, when the problems of cities were prominent on the national political agenda.
        His books and articles had a sharp contrarian edge. He was a critic of almost every mainstream liberal idea in domestic policy, especially the use of Federal aid to help relieve urban poverty. Mr. Banfield argued that at best Government programs would fail because they aimed at the wrong problems; at worst they would make the problems worse. He fostered generations of graduate students, some of whom became leading figures in American intellectual life. They included James Q. Wilson, who succeeded him in his chair at Harvard, and Christopher DeMuth, president of the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
        Mr. Banfield received his B.A. in English from the University of Connecticut in 1938 and went to work for the United States Forest Service. After jobs with the New Hampshire Farm Bureau and the United States Farm Security Administration in Washington and California, he went to the University of Chicago to work on his doctorate in political science. Chicago at that time, under the influence of figures like Milton Friedman and Leo Strauss, was a bastion of laissez-faire politics, a cause that Mr. Banfield later promoted in his own work.
        He served briefly on the faculty in Chicago, moving to Harvard in 1959. He taught at the University of Pennsylvania before returning to Harvard at the end of his career.
        In 1955 Mr. Banfield and Mr. Meyerson collaborated on ''Politics, Planning and the Public Interest,'' which examined Chicago's public housing projects. That book was one of several in which Mr. Banfield found Government programs to be foiled by a law of unintended consequences. In the Chicago case, he predicted that creating tall institutional buildings full of small apartments would have the unintended effect of racially isolating the urban poor.
        A major theme of Mr. Banfield's work on poverty, which was often angrily criticized in liberal circles, is that culture plays a more important role than factors like discrimination or lack of education in impeding a person's economic progress.
        Among his most influential books was ''The Moral Basis of a Backward Society,'' a study of a small village in southern Italy, researched in collaboration with his wife, the former Laura Fasano. Mr. Banfield's thesis, summed up in a term he coined, ''amoral familism,'' was that the narrow focus on family relations prevented people from cooperating with those outside the family or village.
        He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Laura Banfield Hoguet, a lawyer; a son, Elliott A. Banfield, an illustrator, and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Banfield's emphasis on culture as the basic element in poverty drew accusations that he was promoting a ''blame the victim'' attitude. In his 1970 book ''The Unheavenly City,'' and in various papers that he published in the late 60's, he recognized the existence and harm of racism but propounded the view that economic class and not race was the essential ingredient in poverty.
        In that book Mr. Banfield constructed a sociological portrait of what he called ''the lower-class individual'' as someone who was very different from the middle-class professionals who sought ways to solve his problems. ''The lower-class individual lives moment to moment,'' he wrote. ''Impulse governs his behavior either because he cannot discipline himself to sacrifice a present for a future satisfaction or because he has no sense of the future. He is therefore radically improvident.''
        Mr. Banfield's role as an adviser to President Richard M. Nixon and chairman of his Model Cities Task Force gave his published views an extra measure of controversy. During the Reagan Administration he served on a task force seeking ways to increase public support for the arts. But his subsequent book, ''The Democratic Muse: Visual Arts and the Public Interest,'' argued that Federal support of the arts was neither justified by the Constitution nor useful in practice.
        ''Affording enjoyment to people is not a proper function of organizations serving the common good,'' he wrote in that book.
      