
        Sir de Villiers Graaff, who led South Africa's weak and troubled parliamentary opposition for two decades during the apartheid era, died on Monday at his farm outside Cape Town. He was 85.
        Sir de Villiers, who was nicknamed ''Sir Div'' and ''Div,'' had an ''impeccable Afrikaner background,'' as The Daily Telegraph put it yesterday.
        A burly six-footer, he succeeded to his baronetcy in 1931 after the death of his father, Sir David Graaff, a well-to-do businessman who had been made a baronet by King George V for his services in helping to form the Union of South Africa, which was created in 1911. The family surname is pronounced ''grahf.''
        Sir de Villiers studied at Cape Town University and Oxford, became a lawyer in South Africa and was decorated for his military service in World War II. He was a member of South Africa's Parliament from 1948 to 1977, representing a constituency in Cape Town for most of that time.
        From 1956 to 1977 he was the leader of the centrist United Party, the official opposition in the all-white Parliament, which was dominated by the National Party of John Vorster, Prime Minister from 1966 to 1978.
        But as The Cape Times put it, ''The bare facts'' of Sir de Villiers's ''career as leader of the opposition offer little encouragement to the most admiring biographer.''
        In that role, he condemned the National Party's program of forcing blacks by the millions into enclaves called homelands. Still, as The Times of London reported, ''He upheld racial segregation and white supremacy.'' And after the Sharpeville massacre of 1960, he came out in favor of the Government's steps to ban the African National Congress.
        He stepped down as the United Party's leader in June 1977, and the party was dissolved after years of decline. By then the number of seats it held in the Parliament had dwindled to only 24, from 41 in 1974, after defections to the left and the right. By June 1977 the party had split four times and had been defeated in five general elections.
        During his tenure as leader, he got mixed reviews in South Africa. David Welsh, senior lecturer in African government and law at the University of Cape Town, wrote in a book in 1975 that Sir de Villiers had ''shown strength and resilience in riding out storms within the party, but he has come under fire from left and right for equivocation and ambivalence.''
        In 1966, nearly five years after South Africa's exit from the British Commonwealth, members of the National Party had great fun asking why Sir de Villiers had not renounced his baronetcy. Yesterday The Times of London reported that the baronetcy was to pass to his elder son, David, unless that son disclaimed it.
        Sir de Villiers is also survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Helena Voigt; another son, and a daughter.
      