
        Clement L. Markert, a noted developmental biologist whose decision as a teen-ager to battle the forces of Generalissimo Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War cast a cloud over his career during the McCarthy era, died on Oct. 1. He was 82.
        Dr. Markert died at a hospice near his home in Colorado Springs, his wife, Margaret, said.
        Highly regarded by his peers in the scientific community, and a former chairman of the biology department at Yale, Dr. Markert may be best remembered, however, for a decision he made when he was 20 and a year away from graduating from the University of Colorado in Boulder.
        He left school in 1937 with his roommate, rode freight trains across the country and then, because the United States Government was not allowing travel to Spain, stowed away on a freighter bound for Europe. He then made contact with the Abraham Lincoln Brigade, the force of 2,800 American volunteers who tried unsuccessfully to prevent Franco from toppling the democratically elected Government in Spain.
        Mrs. Markert, who met her future husband in school, said his motives were that ''he was just a good citizen, antifascist.''
        In a 1986 interview, Dr. Markert said, ''I felt the most concrete thing I could do at the time was to destroy fascism, and Spain was the battleground on which to do that.''
        Raised around Pueblo, Colo., the young soldier was able to put his mountain experience to use as a scout, often traveling behind enemy lines, said a friend and Yale colleague, Dr. Sidney Altman, a Nobel laureate in chemistry.
        His roommate died in the war. But although Dr. Markert lived to return, earning a bachelor's degree in Colorado in 1940 and a doctorate from Johns Hopkins University in 1948, he was never able to put the war behind him fully.
        The Army Air Forces refused to accept him during World War II, so he enlisted in the merchant marine.
        And in 1954, the University of Michigan suspended him and two colleagues from their teaching positions after they refused to testify before a subcommittee of the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        Dr. Markert was later reinstated; his colleagues were not. Although the university refused in later years to apologize, in 1991 an annual lecture series on intellectual freedom was named for the three men.
        ''Maybe this is better,'' Dr. Markert said in a Detroit Free Press interview at the time. ''This way, they'll have to think about and squirm about it at least once a year.''
        Dr. Markert, who was later named to the American Academy of Sciences, went to Yale in the mid-1960's and taught there for two decades. He was credited with the discovery of isozymes, enzymes that vary in form to allow the development of different human organs and tissues.
        Nearing age 70, then the mandatory retirement age at Yale, Dr. Markert resigned and took a position at North Carolina State University.
        There he focused on animal husbandry research. After his retirement, he and his wife returned to Colorado, where they had long spent their summers.
        Dr. Markert is survived by three children: Alan, of Maine, and Robert and Samantha Schreck Markert, both of California.
        Associates said Dr. Markert never lost his interest in politics over the years or his commitment to what he believed was justice. But in his 1986 interview, Dr. Markert said he had had to forgo his activism.
        ''I made the conscious decision that I could not be both a first-rate scientist and a social activist,'' he said.
      