
        Lee Richardson, an actor whose career spanned more than four decades of stage, film and television work, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was cardiac arrest after complications from a perforated ulcer, said his daughter, Rachel Richardson Lyons.
        For more than 40 years, Mr. Richardson was a fixture on the New York stage and in regional repertory roles. He appeared in so many roles requiring an English accent that he was widely assumed to be British.
        Mr. Richardson, who was born in Chicago, read the works of Shakespeare and Noel Coward as a soldier in the Army Air Corps during World War II. After his discharge from the Army, he briefly took prelaw courses at Loyola University before moving to the Goodman Theater School in Chicago.
        One of his early New York performances was Off Broadway in the Circle in the Square production of Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke'' with Geraldine Page. He was 24 at the time and caught the attention of the artist Al Hirschfeld, who eventually depicted him in four drawings.
        By 1954, Mr. Richardson was appearing regularly on the television drama anthologies ''Playhouse 90'' and ''Studio One,'' tallying more than 250 appearances. He also performed with George C. Scott in the 1962 production of ''The Merchant of Venice'' in Central Park.
        Later, he became a founding member of the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, where he worked with Jessica Tandy, Hume Cronyn, Zoe Caldwell, Douglas Campbell and Rita Gam.
        After four years with the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., he returned to Broadway in productions of ''Find Your Way Home,'' ''The Texas Trilogy'' and ''Father's Day.'' He was nominated for a Tony Award in 1973 for his  performance in ''Vivat! Vivat Regina!''
        He was a favorite of the director Sidney Lumet, who cast him in the films ''Prince of the City,'' ''Daniel,'' ''Q & A'' and ''A Stranger Among Us.'' He also appeared in John Huston's ''Prizzi's Honor.''
        Mr. Richardson performed voice-overs for more than 100 commercials.
        His wife of 35 years, Elaine Rower Richardson, died in 1996.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by a son, Jonathan, of the Bronx, and a sister, Dolores Levine of Anaheim, Calif.
      