
        Former Justice Morris Pashman of the New Jersey Supreme Court, whose opinions touched on areas from freedom of the press to the rights of the mentally handicapped, died on Oct. 3 at a hospital in New York City. He was 87 and lived in Clifton, N.J.
        Justice Pashman served in the state judiciary for 23 years, 10 of them as a member of the state's highest court. He resigned in 1982 when he turned 70, the age of mandatory retirement.
        In 1978, Justice Pashman drew notice when he dissented from a majority decision to send M. A. Farber, a New York Times reporter, to jail for refusing to release his sources for articles concerning Dr. Mario E. Jascalevich, a physician on trial on murder charges.
        ''Judge Pashman was deeply concerned about the First Amendment in the case,'' said Eugene Scheiman, a lawyer who defended Mr. Farber and The Times. ''When Farber was about to be imprisoned, we asked the New Jersey Supreme Court for an emergency stay. It was on a weekend. Judge Pashman came in wearing his golf clothes and granted the stay.''
        The next day, when the full New Jersey Supreme Court upheld a lower court and ordered the state to proceed with imprisoning Mr. Farber and fining the New York Times Company $100,000 plus $5,000 a day until they complied with a court order to release the files, only Justice Pashman dissented.
        The following September, when the State Supreme Court reaffirmed the action of the lower court, Justice Pashman again dissented; he was joined by Justice Alan Handler.
        When Dr. Jascalevich was acquitted, Mr. Farber was released after 40 days of incarceration. In 1982, Gov. Brendan T. Byrne of New Jersey pardoned both Mr. Farber and The New York Times on their convictions for criminal contempt and returned $101,000 in fines to The Times.
        Justice Pashman was known for his defense of the rights of the underdog, and he affirmed the equal citizenship rights of the mentally retarded.
        Mr. Pashman was born on Sept. 27, 1912, in Passaic, and received his law degree from Rutgers Law School. He was elected Mayor of Passaic in 1951 and served until 1955. In 1959, he was appointed to the bench in Passaic County by Gov. Robert B. Meyner.
        Justice Pashman is survived by a daughter, Linda Blair-McCrohan of Clifton; a son, Louis Pashman of Upper Saddle River; four grandsons, and three great-grandchildren.
        In 1966, Justice Pashman decided in favor of the Passaic County Bar Association in a suit against the County Freeholders claiming that lawyers had been put at a disadvantage by poor conditions at the courthouse. As a result of Mr. Pashman's decision, a new courthouse was built within four years. Chiseled into the wall of the building is a quotation from his opinion: ''A lawyer's obligation is perpetual; he needs no motivation beyond his sense of duty and his pride.''
      