
        Charles Luckman, an architect and businessman who had the misfortune to design the building that replaced New York's Penn Station but who also helped to create Lever House,the landmark Park Avenue skyscraper, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 89.
        Though his buildings include such major projects as Madison Square Garden, Aloha Stadium in Honolulu, and the original master plan for the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Fla., Mr. Luckman may well be remembered less for the buildings he designed than for inadvertently spurring architectural preservation to become a major national movement.
        Mr. Luckman was an American success story. Born in Kansas City in 1909, he graduated magna cum laude from the School of Architecture at the University of Illinois in 1931.  Since architectural commissions were scarce during the Depression, Mr. Luckman took a job as a draftsman in the advertising department of the Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Company. His success at that firm brought him an offer in 1935 to become sales manager of the Pepsodent Company, where his marketing techniques were credited with quadrupling profits.
        In 1937, at age 27, he was featured on the cover of Time Magazine as the Boy Wonder of American industry.  In 1946, three years after Pepsodent was acquired by Lever Brothers, Mr. Luckman became Lever's president.
        While at Lever Brothers, Mr. Luckman proved himself a distinguished patron of modern architecture by masterminding the creation of the company's new headquarters on Park Avenue. Designed by Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill, Lever House was one of the first glass skyscrapers to arise in Manhattan.
        Completed in 1956, the tower remains a landmark of the International Style. Along with the Seagram Building, which opened two years later, Lever House established the glass tower as a symbol of corporate America and began the transformation of much of Park Avenue from a posh residential address to a corridor of corporate prestige.
        Mr. Luckman's experience as a patron helped persuade him to return to architecture as a practitioner. In 1950, he left Lever Brothers to form his own firm, the Luckman Partnership. One of his early commissions was to design a new headquarters for Seagram Brothers on a site across from Lever House. The Luckman plan was rejected, however, when Seagram hired Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Philip Johnson to design the project.
        By then, Mr. Luckman had formed a partnership with the Los Angeles architect William Pereira. Based in California, the firm specialized in office buildings, airports and Air Force bases, and also designed the Flamingo Hotel in Las Vegas.
        Mr. Luckman brought to architecture his business acumen and flair for showmanship. He once told a writer for The New Yorker, ''I am firm in my belief that architecture is a business and not an art.'' This was music to the ears of corporate executives, government officials, and civic leaders more accustomed to dealing with businessmen than sparring with the artistically committed leaders of the modern movement.
        Referring to his work as supervising architect for the University of California at Santa Barbara, Mr. Luckman commented, ''We might recommend a building with three medium-size wings, instead of one big one, so that three people could give the wings and have them named after them.''
        But the architect's pragmatic approach did not endear him to architecture critics or his own professional colleagues. In the ''A.I.A. Guide to New York City,'' Elliot Willensky and Norval White describe Mr. Luckman's design for the United States Pavilion at the 1964-65 World's Fair as ''an embarrassing -- but perhaps accurate -- symbol for America.  Razed in 1977. Hooray!''
        Though Mr. Luckman asserted that his buildings conformed to no single architectural style, he adhered closely to the functionalist creed of modern design. As such, his buildings highlighted the thin line that separated good modern architecture from mundane obedience to the bottom line.
        Modern architects prided themselves on spare, restrained designs that enabled them to exploit the esthetic potential of structure and space. But this approach was easily mimicked by others who lacked a firm grasp of the esthetic dimension.  A good modern building might indeed look business-like. But to practice architecture as business did not invariably produce good buildings.
        In the early 1960's, when he was hired to design the new Madison Square Garden Center for the site then occupied by Penn Station, Mr. Luckman's corporate ethos set him on a collision course with the burgeoning architectural preservation movement. His design for the Garden and adjacent office tower, without distinction in themselves, brought discredit on modern architecture throughout the United States.
        Responding to the public outcry against the station's demolition, the Pennsylvania Railroad's president wrote a letter to The New York Times asking, ''Does it make any sense to preserve a building merely as a monument?'' But Ada Louise Huxtable, who was then The Times's architecture critic, observed: ''We will probably be judged not by the monuments we build, but by those we have destroyed.'' Plans are now afoot to redevelop the Garden site.
        In 1968, the year the Garden complex opened, Mr. Luckman went into the development business. He sold his firm to the Ogden Corporation, a major real estate developer in Southern California, and became president of its subsidiary, Ogden Development. His projects included major buildings in downtown Los Angeles, including the headquarters for the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Luckman again dismayed preservationists when he recommended a new building to replace the Los Angeles Public Library, a downtown landmark designed by Bertram Goodhue in 1926.  But, by then, partly because of the Penn Station controversy, cities had become more protective of their architectural heritage. In 1993 the old library was renovated and expanded by the Los Angeles office of Hardy Holtzman Pfeiffer.
        Other projects designed by Mr. Luckman include the Prudential Center in Boston, Broadway (now Macy's) Plaza in downtown Los Angeles, the Arco Center Towers in Long Beach, Calif., the Civic Center in Inglewood, Calif., the Phoenix Civic Plaza, the Forum in Los Angeles, the Johnson Space Center in Houston, the Standard Service Station at Los Angeles International Airport (now demolished), and the original Los Angeles Convention Center, which was remodeled and enlarged in 1993 by James Ingo Freed of Pei Cobb Freed and Partners.
        Mr. Luckman had a distinguished record of public service as director of the Freedom Train, part of President Harry Truman's program for rebuilding Europe after World War II. In recognition of this work, he was awarded France's Legion of Honor, England's Order of St. John, and Italy's Star of Solidarity. He was also a member of the President's Council on Physical Fitness, chairman of the board of councilors of the Brain Research Institute at U.C.L.A., and president of the Los Angeles Ballet.
        In 1994 Mr. Luckman dedicated the Charles and Harriet Luckman Fine Arts Complex at California State University in East Los Angeles, established with his donation of $2.1 million. He said at the dedication: ''I felt there has been so much emphasis on the business and down-to-earth approach to life that it was time to take a deep breath collectively and remember what we established in this country with a culture.'' Mr. Luckman's autobiography, ''Twice in a Lifetime: From Soaps to Skyscrapers,'' was published in 1988.
        He is survived by his wife, Harriet; three sons, Charles, Jr., of Falbrook, Calif., James, of Ketchum, Idaho, and Stephen, of Cochella, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 30, 1999, Saturday  A picture caption on Thursday with an obituary of the architect and businessman Charles Luckman referred incorrectly to his involvement with Lever House. Although he did design the current Madison Square Garden and masterminded the creation of a new headquarters while president of Lever Brothers, the architect of Lever House was Gordon Bunshaft of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, as noted in the article. The obituary also misstated the completion year of Lever House. It was 1952, not 1956.
      