
        Robert G. L. Waite, a Williams College historian who set off a debate by bringing the psychoanalytic approach to books about Hitler, died on Monday while visiting his son Peter in Glastonbury, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Williamstown, Mass.
        Dr. Waite was one of the earliest and strongest proponents of analyzing events in Hitler's early life in Freudian terms to explain his behavior as Fuhrer.
        In his most influential book, ''The Psychopathic God: Adolf Hitler'' (Basic Books, 1977), Dr. Waite took ''the psychological thing to its limits,'' said Ron Rosenbaum, whose book, ''Explaining Hitler: The Search for the Origin of his Evil,'' was published last year.
        Mr. Rosenbaum said he and other authors had criticized Dr. Waite for undervaluing external influences, including European history, Christian anti-Semitism and ideology, in explaining Hitler. But he said the psychological approach had now been at least partly incorporated in the work of many historians.
        ''Waite's contribution is important, even if you, as I do, disagree,'' he said. ''Hitler's psyche is certainly not without interest.''
        Robert Jay Lifton, a leading student of the psychological dimensions of history, said some evidence presented and analyzed by Mr. Waite, including claims about Hitler's sexual preferences and a now much-debated autopsy report that he had one testicle, now seemed shaky. But he said Mr. Waite had nonetheless made a significant contribution.
        ''He did something important in trying to collect everything he could about Hitler's psychological behavior and pulling it together in a single study,'' said Dr. Lifton, who is a professor of psychiatry and psychology at John Jay College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
        Dr. Waite was born on Feb. 18, 1919, in Manitoba, the son of a United Church of Canada minister, and spent his youth moving among small parishes that often paid his father in kind rather than in cash.
        He attended Macalester College in St. Paul on a scholarship and graduated in 1941. He served in the United States Army from 1942 to 1945, attaining the rank of corporal, and earned his Ph.D. in history from Harvard in 1949.
        Dr. Waite then joined the faculty of Williams, in Williamstown, Mass. He conducted research in Germany as a Guggenheim Fellow in 1953 and wrote a number of biographies for the World Book Encyclopedia.
        He also wrote ''Vanguard of Nazism,'' 1952; ''Kaiser and Fuhrer: A Comparative Study of Personality and Politics,'' 1998, and his memoirs, ''Hitler, the Kaiser and Me,'' which was released last month.
        Mr. Waite retired from teaching in 1988, but with his bushy beard and array of dramatic hats remained a colorful figure on campus as he was led about by Duncan, his West Highland terrier.
        A dedicated needlepoint embroiderer, he often did needlework while attending lectures and meetings, including the annual Town Meeting. He served as moderator and deacon of the First Congregational Church in Williamstown, developing a reputation for spirited sermons.
        His wife, Alice, died in 1991. In addition to Peter, he is survived by another son, Geoffrey of Ithaca, N.Y., and a grandson.
        In his work on Hitler, Dr. Waite relied heavily on a study by Walter C. Langer done for American intelligence officials in World War II. His goal was to take this important study to deeper levels. Hitler, he said, ''was a human phenomenon which the historian must seek to understand.''
        But Dr. Waite never contended that so-called psychohistory provided a full explanation, much less the only one. ''I believe that the career of Adolf Hitler raises questions that can be answered neither by psychology nor by history working alone,'' he said in a 1977 interview.
      