
        Dr. Sydney E. Salmon, a cancer researcher and founder of the Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson, died on Wednesday at his home in Tucson. He was 63.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Laurie Young, a spokeswoman for the center.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Salmon and Dr. Anne W. Hamburger, of the University of Maryland, developed the first test for cloning human tumors. The results of such tests make it possible to treat a cancer patient with a specific anticancer drug instead of using a battery of drugs.
        Dr. Salmon's specialty was treating cancer of the bone marrow, or multiple myeloma.
        He joined the University of Arizona College of Medicine in 1972 as chief of hematology and oncology. He became a Regents' Professor of Medicine in 1989.
        In 1976, he established the Arizona Cancer Center at the college. It is one of 30 comprehensive cancer centers nationwide. He was its director until last August, about 18 months after his cancer was diagnosed.
        Sydney Elias Salmon was born on May 8, 1936, on Staten Island. He moved to Tucson in 1948 and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona in 1958. He earned his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1962. He was an intern and resident at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, N.Y.
        He was recruited to the University of Arizona from the University of California at San Francisco. Earlier, he was a cancer researcher with the United States Public Health Service in Boston and a special fellow in hematology and immunology at the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Salmon was president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology in 1984 and 1985 and of the Association of American Cancer Institutes in 1988 and 1989. In 1991, he was named to the National Cancer Advisory Board.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; three sons, Howard, Stewart and Russell, all of Tucson; two daughters, Dr. Julia Salmon of Boston and Laura Levine of Atlanta; a brother, Norman Salmon of Tucson, and three grandchildren.
      