
        George Forrest, the songwriter who collaborated with Robert Wright on the words and music for the songs ''Stranger in Paradise'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday in Miami, where he lived. He was 84.
        Mr. Wright, who was Mr. Forrest's writing partner for the last 72 years, survives him. The music for ''Stranger in Paradise'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' were part of the score of the 1953 hit Broadway musical ''Kismet,'' which was based on music by Borodin. The two men's other musicals included the 1944 musical ''The Song of Norway.'' They wrote the words and music for the song hit ''It's a Blue World'' (1940) and the lyrics for ''Donkey Serenade'' (1937).
        Among the other Broadway musicals that the team collaborated on were ''Gypsy Lady'' (1946), ''Magdalena'' (1948), ''Kean'' (1961), ''Anya'' (1965) and ''Grand Hotel'' (1989).
        At the time of Mr. Forrest's death, he and Mr. Wright were working on another musical, ''Betting on Bertie,'' a project they had begun years ago with P. G. Wodehouse and Guy Bolton, who wrote the book for the show.
        Robert Lantz, Mr. Forrest's agent, said yesterday that the body of work that Mr. Forrest and Mr. Wright created ''ranges from cabaret work and nightclub work to movies in the early days of Hollywood and to musicals for which they adapted musical works by Borodin, Rachmaninoff, Strauss, Villa-Lobos and others, and for which they also wrote lyrics.''
        Mr. Forrest, whose name was originally George Forrest Chichester Jr., was born in Brooklyn. In the early 1920's he and his family moved to the Miami area.
        Although his formal musical training was minimal, he mastered the piano before he entered kindergarten. Mr. Wright, an accomplished pianist who met him in the late 1920's, said in a 1974 interview: ''He always was marvelous. He was a natural. He could play by ear.''
        By the time Mr. Forrest was 13 he was already playing piano and accompanying singers in Miami night spots and singing second tenor in the glee club at Miami High School. Mr. Wright, a year older and the conductor of his own radio show and Sunday concerts, was the glee club's pianist.
        In 1934, before either of the two was 20, they left on an eighth-month tour, playing cabarets from New York westward until they reached Hollywood for a tryout with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
        Their audition with the best dozen of their 80 songs from the tour won them a seven-year contract. Their first major task at MGM was to create, in 1937, a new score for the MacDonald-Eddy movie ''Maytime'' after the studio had discarded almost all the songs that had been  prepared.
        Mr. Forrest and Mr. Wright produced some new lyrics and a new score that was a blend of Tchaikovsky's Fifth Symphony, Verdi and French folk songs. Their work won them immediate esteem.
        By the time they wrote the songs for ''Grand Hotel,'' the pair had written ''lyrics and music of more than 2,000 compositions for 16 produced stage musicals, 18 stage reviews, 58 motion pictures and numerous cabaret acts,'' the show's Playbill said.
        By then they had won Tony Awards for ''Kismet'' and had been nominated for three Academy Awards for the songs ''Always and Always,'' ''It's a Blue World'' and ''Pennies for Peppino.'' In 1995 they received the Ascap/Richard Rodgers Award for their contribution to the American Musical Theater.
        Correction:  October 13, 1999, Wednesday  A picture from The Associated Press yesterday with an obituary of the songwriter George Forrest was published in error. It showed Mr. Forrest's writing partner, Robert Wright.
      