
        Jacques Lecoq, a mime, theater director and influential teacher, died on Jan. 19 at a hospital in Paris. He was 77 and lived in Paris.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his son Patrick.
        As a mime, Mr. Lecoq was not as well known internationally as Etienne Decroux and Marcel Marceau, a pupil of Decroux. He rarely performed, or even spoke much about his work. But he was considered an extraordinary teacher of mime, which he called corporeal expression. ''Like Grotowski, Lecoq was a master,'' said Jack Lang, a former French Culture Minister, in  Le Monde last week, referring to the theater director Jerzy Grotowski.  ''He inspired others.''
        At Mr. Lecoq's celebrated Ecole Jacques Lecoq in Paris, which opened in 1956 and is now run by his wife, Fay Lees Lecoq, students learn silent improvisation, the use of masks and techniques of movement to express ''what lies behind words,'' as Mr. Lecoq put it. Students have included members of the Theatre de Complicite, which he helped to found, and of the mime ensemble Mummenschanz, as well as the actor Geoffrey Rush, the directors Ariane Mnouchkine and Steven Berkoff, the dancer and choreographer Joelle Bouvier, the mime Avner the Eccentric and the playwright Yasmina Reza (''Art''). His students also included architects, psychoanalysts and a clergyman.
        Mr. Lecoq became involved in mime in the mid-1940's when, in training to teach physical education, he met Jean-Louis Barrault and founding members of L'Education par le Jeu Dramatique, a movement linked with Antonin Artaud. He worked with small but influential theater groups, among them that of Jean Daste in Grenoble, where Mr. Lecoq taught movement and gesture and learned about the Japanese theater of Noh and the use of masks.
        Mr. Lecoq taught in Germany, moving on to Italy in 1948. In Padua, the sculptor Amleto Sartori agreed to make commedia dell'arte masks for him. Mr. Lecoq also became close to Giorgio Strehler, organizing his Piccolo Teatro theater school, and worked at the Cinecitta film studios with Dario Fo, the Italian comic, actor and playwright.
        Mr. Lecoq did not admire French mime trends of his time, believing, he said, that it was important to move ''toward open mime and not toward the mime which is enclosed in its own silence.'' He trained his students with strenuous physical and emotional exercises, which ranged from acrobatics to clowning. Struggling to make their classmates  laugh, students learned to be funny from within themselves. Wearing masks, they learned how body movements could turn facial blankness into expression.
        Mime, Mr. Lecoq taught, was not imitation or even virtuoso technique. Though disciplined and stylized, good mime could be spontaneous and even playful. It could ''liberate the body,'' as he put it, and reveal innate cultural differences among nationalities. ''Now your job is to get over me,'' he told students graduating from the two-year program.
        Mr. Lecoq performed a one-man show, ''Tout Bouge'' (''Everything Moves''), in the 1980's and taught a master class, ''Le Corps des Choses'' (''The Body of Things''), in Europe and the United States. ''Le Corps Poetique,'' a book of his writing on theater, was published last year in France and he collaborated on a two-part documentary, ''Les Deux Voyages de Jacques Lecoq,'' just before his death.
        In addition to his son Patrick and his wife, Fay, he is survived by two other sons, Richard and Francois, and a daughter, Pascale, all of Paris.
      