
        Morris West, who used his power as a storyteller and fascination with Roman Catholic faith and morals to spin more than two dozen novels, many of them best sellers like ''The Devil's Advocate'' and ''The Shoes of the Fisherman,'' died on Saturday in Sydney, Australia, where he lived. He was 83.
        He died while at work on his latest novel, ''The Last Confession,'' The Associated Press reported.
        Although critics were often disdainful of his work, calling his characters unbelievable and the twists and turns of his plots far-fetched, Mr. West wrote stories that captivated readers, selling an estimated 60 million copies worldwide. His novels were adapted into movies, theatrical productions and radio dramas.
        Many of his novels strongly reflect his Roman Catholicism. ''The Devil's Advocate'' (Morrow, 1959) is about a young priest dying of cancer who is sent to a Calabrian village to make the case against the canonization of a British deserter executed by Communist partisans during World War II.
        In the process, he discovers in himself the means of dying in the grace that he imagined he had lost.
        ''The Shoes of the Fisherman'' (Morrow, 1963) concerns the election of a Russian pope and turns into a study of Vatican politics.
        Both novels were made into films. ''The Devil's Advocate'' starred John Mills in 1977. ''The Shoes of the Fisherman'' starred Anthony Quinn in 1968.
        Mr. West wrote two other novels  set in the Vatican. ''The Clowns of God'' (Morrow, 1981) is the story of a Pope obliged to abdicate rather than reveal his vision of the Second Coming. ''Lazarus'' (St. Martin's Press, 1990) concerns another Pope who comes to believe that the church is losing its following and who seeks the virtues of the humble parish priest.
        While often referred to as ''a Catholic novelist'' because he once seriously considered taking holy orders in Rome and because of his preoccupation with theology, his writing frequently challenged the church.
        In 1970 he published a play called ''The Heretic,'' about the trial and execution of an Italian heretic by the Inquisition, and later that year in collaboration with Robert Francis, a Canadian journalist, he published ''Scandal in the Assembly'' (Morrow), a treatise denouncing the Vatican's refusal to recognize divorce.  The book reflected Mr. West's dismay at the difficulty in obtaining a church annulment of his first marriage.
        Such critical works seemed to come strangely from the author of ''The Shoes of the Fisherman'' and other devout and respectful novels.
        Mr. West said in an interview at the time that he had ''spoken against authority'' because the church had been wrong ''to use the law to enforce its wishes.''
        Despite the runaway success of his novels, not even Mr. West could make Hollywood step to his tune.
        By 1987, after he had sold three of his major best sellers to film studios, Mr. West learned that the actors and the director then making ''The Shoes of the Fisherman'' had rewritten what he considered a delicately balanced scene that he had taken pains to adapt for the movie.
        ''I raised hell,'' he said at the time. ''I argued that it destroyed the theological validity of the plot in violation of contractual obligations between the studio and me.''
        He won the battle but lost the war.
        ''By the end of the film the accumulation of the variations was such that I took my name off the script,''  he said.
        As a consequence, he said, he would sell to Hollywood only those thrillers that had ''a very simple story.''
        If the public was almost invariably taken with his yarns, the critics were often disdainful.
        When ''The Shoes of the Fisherman'' came out in 1963 and began selling what would eventually amount to 12 million copies, Orville Prescott writing for The New York Times called the book ''clumsy and dull,'' with shortcomings that ranged from poor characterization to an overabundance of ponderous theological exposition.
        Reviewing ''The Tower of Babel'' (Morrow, 1968) for The Times, Charles Poore was caustic, writing, ''Having read the book, I can wait indefinitely for the picture.''
        Morris Langlo West was born on April 26, 1916, in St. Kilda, a suburb of Melbourne. The eldest of six children of Charles Langlo West and Florence Guilfoyle Hanlon, Mr. West told interviewers that his early childhood was not happy. At 14 he entered a Christian Brothers seminary in Sydney as ''a kind of refuge,'' he said.
        Later he attended and graduated  the University of Melbourne and  taught modern languages and mathematics in New South Wales and Tasmania.
        In 1942 Mr. West decided against taking his final vows for the priesthood. War had broken out, and he volunteered for service with the Australian Imperial Forces.
        His first novel, ''Moon in My Pocket,'' based on his years as a Christian Brother, was published in 1945 and sold 10,000 copies.
        More novels came in the 1950's, the first two paying for a visit to Italy,  where he was employed as a social worker.
        His book about the street urchins of war-ravaged Italy, ''The Children of the Sun,'' drew sympathy and support from around the world.
        In the late 1950's and 60's five of Mr. West's novels led to films, most notably ''The Shoes of the Fisherman.''
        He is survived by his second wife, Joyce Lawford, whom he married in 1952; and by their three sons, Christopher, Paul and Michael, and a daughter, Melanie.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. West acknowledged his unhappiness with his religion.
        ''Christian belief is not always a comfort but a bleak acceptance of a dark mystery,'' he said.
      