
       Dona Guimaraes, editor of the Home Design and Entertaining sections of The New York Times Magazine, died of lung cancer Monday night at New York Hospital. She was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan and Quogue, L.I.
        Dona Guimaraes, editor of the Home Design and Entertaining sections of The New York Times Magazine, died of lung cancer Monday night at New York Hospital. She was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan and Quogue, L.I.
        Before joining The Times as editor of The Home Section in 1979, Ms. Guimaraes was executive editor of Mademoiselle magazine. She had previously worked as a fashion editor and reporter at Mademoiselle, Charm and Women's Wear Daily.
        ''Dona has been a sensitive and elegant spirit in directing the coverage of design and home affairs,'' Max Frankel, executive editor of The Times, said. ''She leaves an indelible mark on The Times and on all who worked with her.''
        Ms. Guimaraes was born in Dearborn, Mich. She attended Middlebury College and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1946. She received a master's in English from the university in 1947. Ms. Guimaraes lectured on the history of fashion and design at the Smithsonian Institution, the Los Angeles Museum of Art and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum in New York.
        Her mother, the late Dorothy Hailes Guimaraes, was a collector of 19th- and 20th-century decorative objects who donated extensively to the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn and the costumes division of the National Museum of American History of the Smithsonian Institution.
        Ms. Guimaraes was well known for essays on style, often memoirs of her childhood, on the back page of the Home Design magazine. Of her twice-yearly family literary teas, which brought out the worst of the family silver, including claw-footed napkin rings, she wrote, ''Every ornate curve became a duel between object and polisher. I usually lost.''
        Among friends and colleagues she was known for her personal style, a hawklike eye for detail and a habit of rarely going anywhere without her tape measure. A devoted collector and preservationist, she renovated a 1924 worker's cottage and an early 19th-century barn that had been a dance hall.
        Surviving are a sister, Suzanne, of Talkeetna, Alaska, and a brother, Paul, of Canoga Park, Calif.
      