
       Dr. Gertrude Rosenthal, chief curator emeritus of the Baltimore Museum of Art and a member of its staff from 1945 to 1969, died on Monday after a long illness, at Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore. She was 85 years old.
        Dr. Gertrude Rosenthal, chief curator emeritus of the Baltimore Museum of Art and a member of its staff from 1945 to 1969, died on Monday after a long illness, at Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore. She was 85 years old.
        In concert with Adelyn Breeskin, the museum's director from 1947 to 1962, Dr. Rosenthal was widely believed to have shaped the identity of the Baltimore Museum. Joining the museum in 1945 as its director of research, she went on to serve as its general curator, senior curator and (in the director's absence) acting director. Published a Catalogue
        Though officially retired in 1965, she continued to work with the museum, and in 1981, at the age of 77, she published a catalogue of the institution's Italian Old Master paintings.
        Paintings acquired for the museum during her years as curator included major works by Poussin, Washington Allston and Thomas Cole, and she and Adelyn Breeskin were instrumental in securing the world-famous Cone collection of paintings and sculptures by Henri Matisse and others, Her gift for organizing scholarly exhibitions with wide popular appeal found outlet in ''The Age of Elegance: The Rococo and Its Effects'' (1959) and ''From El Greco to Pollock'' (1968). Held Honorary Doctorates
        Born in Germany, Dr. Rosenthal was educated in Cologne, at the Sorbonne and at the Courtauld Institute of Art History in London. She came to this country in 1940 and was librarian at Goucher College for five years. A visiting lecturer at Johns Hopkins University, she held honorary doctorates at Goucher and at the Maryland Institute and had been a senior fellow of the National Endowment for the Arts.
        She is survived by a nephew who lives in Zug, Switzerland.
        A memorial service will be held at the Baltimore Museum on May 24 at 4 P.M.
      