
       Arline Thomas, known as ''the bird lady of Queens'' for the number of wild birds she sheltered and rescued, died of congestive heart failure Monday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. She was 85 years old and lived in Hollis, Queens.
        Arline Thomas, known as ''the bird lady of Queens'' for the number of wild birds she sheltered and rescued, died of congestive heart failure Monday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. She was 85 years old and lived in Hollis, Queens.
        Mrs. Thomas, until recently a member of the Audubon Society's volunteer bird-saving corps, treated 200 or more wild birds a year. She had ducks in her bathtub, birds perched on the edges of mixing bowls while she made cakes, owls vying for a place on the kitchen window sill and a blue jay that poked cashew nuts into the ears of a pet rabbit. She fed them birdseed, babyfood, scraped beef, dog biscuits and once, to a tiny, timid horned lark, shrimp salad.
        Mrs. Thomas held Federal and state licenses to treat wild birds. The licenses stipulate that when the birds are well, they must be released. Between May and September, she would devote about 12 hours a day to the birds, hand-feeding her nestlings with a tweezer every hour.
        She treated her first patient, a one-eyed nuthatch suffering from a sprained wing, more than 30 years ago. Soon neighbors started taking injured birds to her and eventually, with help from the New York Zoological Society's head birdkeeper, Mrs. Thomas learned to care for them properly.
        ''I felt sorry for the birds,'' she said in a 1985 interview. ''I was home, few others were doing it, and anyway I believe you get what you give in this life.''
        Mrs. Thomas wrote many articles and a number of books on the care of wild birds, including ''Bird Ambulance'' (Scribner's, 1971), ''Mockingbird Trio'' (Scribner's, 1973), and ''Salty'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1981).
        A widow, she is survived by a stepson, Frank Thomas of Garden City, L.I., and eight grandchildren.
      