
       Gilda Radner, the Emmy Award-winning comedian who created the nasal-voiced broadcaster Roseanne Roseannadanna, the nerdy teen-ager Lisa Loopner and the bumbling complainer Emily Litella for the television show ''Saturday Night Live,'' died of cancer early yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 42 years old.
        Gilda Radner, the Emmy Award-winning comedian who created the nasal-voiced broadcaster Roseanne Roseannadanna, the nerdy teen-ager Lisa Loopner and the bumbling complainer Emily Litella for the television show ''Saturday Night Live,'' died of cancer early yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 42 years old.
        ''There's a preciseness to her parody,'' the critic Molly Haskell once said of Miss Radner. ''Like Dickens, she's added people to the world who bear her stamp. And even when she's tasteless you don't wince. There's something very gentle and sweet in Gilda that comes through.''
        As a guest editorialist on ''Saturday Night Live's'' parody of the weekend news, Miss Radner, in the character of Miss Litella, would rail against broadcasters for paying too much attention to ''endangered feces.'' And only when it was made clear to her that the subject was ''endangered species'' would she back off, mewling, ''Never mind.'' Other topics that enraged her included conservation of national race horses, preoccupation with violins on television and concern for Soviet jewelry.
        Besides her standard ''Never mind,'' Miss Radner coined the catch phrase for the scatterbrained Roseanne Roseannadanna, ''It's always something,'' which became the title of a book she wrote detailing her fight with ovarian cancer. By Her Side
        Miss Radner, whose illness was diagnosed two and a half years ago, died in her sleep about 6:20 A.M. at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, a hospital spokesman, Ron Wise, said. Her husband of five years, the actor and filmmaker Gene Wilder, was at her side.
        ''I loved her like a sister; my thoughts are with Gene and her family,'' said Dan Aykroyd, a fellow ''Saturday Night'' star. Mr. Aykroyd's comments were relayed by a spokeswoman, Susan Patricola.
        Miss Radner, who won the Emmy as the outstanding actress in a variety series, was reared in a quasi-theatrical family in Detroit. ''My father had a hotel,'' she once told an interviewer, ''and people in show business used to stay there. He loved peformers and entertainment, and I grew up knowing that. Some of his spunk must have come out in me, because he used to love to perform, too. He was funny, he could tell a good story, he could do magic tricks.''
        When Gilda was 12, her father became terminally ill. Two years later, he died and left her a large estate. Majored in Drama
        She majored in drama at the University of Michigan, dropped out and followed a boyfriend to Canada, where she landed a role in the Toronto production of ''Godspell'' and later with the comedy revue ''Second City.'' In 1974 she came to New York to do ''The National Lampoon Radio Hour'' and ''The National Lampoon Show.''
        Soon after, Lorne Michaels, the creator of ''Saturday Night Live,'' began putting together the show. He had seen some of Miss Radner's work. ''I felt there was a remarkable quality to her, a goodness which came through whatever she was doing,'' he said. When, in 1975, he was ready to sign on cast members, he chose Miss Radner first.
        In 1979, Miss Radner took her television characters - including Baba Wawa, a spoof of Barbara Walters - to Broadway, where she appeared at the Winter Garden in a revue ''Gilda Live.'' The production was then filmed and released as a movie. In Several Films
        After ''Saturday Night Live'' she appeared in several films, including ''First Family'' and ''The Woman in Red,'' a 1984 hit written and directed by her co-star and future husband, Mr. Wilder. She also appeared in ''Haunted Honeymoon,'' ''Hanky Panky'' and ''It Came From Hollywood.''
        Miss Radner also starred in a dramatic role on Broadway in the play ''Lunch Hour'' with Sam Waterston, in 1980. ''Wanna know my biggest fear?'' she asked just before a performance of the Jean Kerr play. ''It's that I'll come out and someone in the audience will yell, 'Hey, Gilda! Do Roseanne Roseannadanna!' ''
        Funeral services will be private.
      