
       Elizabeth Knowlton, a mountain climber who in 1932 became the first woman to climb as high as 20,000 feet in the Himalayas, died of heart disease Sunday at the Ocean Manor Nursing Home in Scituate, Mass., where she lived for the last four years. She was 93 years old and a longtime resident of Cambridge,
        Elizabeth Knowlton, a mountain climber who in 1932 became the first woman to climb as high as 20,000 feet in the Himalayas, died of heart disease Sunday at the Ocean Manor Nursing Home in Scituate, Mass., where she lived for the last four years. She was 93 years old and a longtime resident of Cambridge, Mass.
        Miss Knowlton attained world fame when she was the only woman in a German-American expedition that attempted to climb the 27,660-foot-high Nanga Parbat in Kashmir, the seventh-highest peak in the world. The men in charge of the climb would not let her continue beyond the 20,000-foot level.
        Miss Knowlton, who was 37 years old at the time, wrote periodic dispatches to The New York Times on the four-month-long assault, which ended in failure because of heavy snowstorms. She later wrote an account of the expedition in her book ''The Naked Mountain,'' published by Putnam in 1933. Frustration and Futility
        After recounting the two years of planning for the ascent, the work that went into preparation in Munich, the long journey by ship, rail, truck, pack horses and afoot, and the two and a half months of the actual climb, she summed up the futile effort in these words:
        ''And the mountain, scornful of our puny efforts, had carelessly every day or two scattered a few snowflakes on us, and then finally thrown a whole handful. And we could do nothing against it. Everything was ended. The effort was over. Defeat - frustration - futility.''
        Miss Knowlton, a native of Springfield, Mass., was a gradaute of Vassar and received a master's degree in English from Radcliffe. She began climbing in the White Mountains of New Hampshire when she was 7 years old. Fluent in German, French, Italian and Spanish, she was at home among explorers in the many expeditions in which she took part in the Alps and in Mexico and Canada.
        After World War II she took part in the first two ascents of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in Colombia. She was in her 60's when she made her last climbs in the Nepalese foothills.
        Miss Knowlton was a member of the Explorers Club, the Appalachian Mountain Club and the American Alpine Club.
        She is survived by a nephew, Marcus P. Knowlton of Princeton, N.J.
        Correction:  February 1, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary on Friday about Elizabeth Knowlton, a mountain climber, misstated an accomplishment in her career. Miss Knowlton climbed peaks in the Himalayas more than 20,000 feet high in 1932, but she was not the first woman to do so; Fanny Bullock Workman of Worcester, Mass., achieved the feat before World War I.
      