
       Maggi Newhouse, a former radio and television talk show hostess who appeared under the name Maggi McNellis, died of heart failure yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71 years old.
        Maggi Newhouse, a former radio and television talk show hostess who appeared under the name Maggi McNellis, died of heart failure yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71 years old.
        She began her career as a supper club singer, appearing at the Pump Room in Chicago and the Rainbow Room in New York, among other spots.
        She switched to radio in 1943 as the hostess of gossipy programs, ''The Maggi McNellis Show'' and ''Maggi's Private Wire.'' She also participated in the radio program ''Leave It to the Girls,'' which offered women advice on romance and marriage. Later she became the moderator of a television version of the show, remaining with it until it went off the air in 1954.
        She also was hostess of the ''Maggi McNellis Show'' and ''Maggi's Magazine'' on television, again using her name from her first marriage to Richard V. McNellis. ''Leave It to the Girls'' was revived briefly in 1962, with Mrs. Newhouse as its hostess. Energetic Social Life
        The wife of the late Clyde M. Newhouse, a member of the communications industry family and an art gallery owner, Mrs. Newhouse maintained an energetic social life as a moderator of charity fashion shows and chairwoman of balls. She was active in such causes as the Southampton Hospital, the Parrish Art Museum, Guideposts for Children, the Police Athletic League and United Cerebral Palsy of New York.
        She was born in Chicago and attended Rosemont (Pa.) College.
        Mr. Newhouse died in 1986. Surviving Mrs. Newhouse are her daughter, Meg Kirkpatrick, and a brother, George Roche, both of Manhattan, and a grandson. A memorial is to be held on June 1 at 4 P.M. in St. James' Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue.
        Correction:  May 26, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about Maggi McNellis Newhouse, former host of radio and television talk shows, misidentified her late husband, Clyde Newhouse. He was the president of a Manhattan art gallery; he was not a member of the Newhouse publishing family.
      