
       Zinka Milanov, the leading dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera for nearly 30 years until her retirement in 1966, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 83 years old and had suffered a stroke on Saturday.
        Zinka Milanov, the leading dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera for nearly 30 years until her retirement in 1966, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 83 years old and had suffered a stroke on Saturday.
        It was generally acknowledged that Miss Milanov was the greatest dramatic soprano after Rosa Ponselle, who retired early in 1937. On Dec. 17, 1937, the young Yugoslav soprano made her Metropolitan Opera debut as Leonora in Verdi's ''Trovatore.'' It was not one of the more fabulous debuts in the Met's history, and critics hedged about the new singer.
        But when Miss Milanov settled down after a few performances and demonstrated what she could do, it became clear that the great Ponselle had a worthy successor. In her first season at the Metropolitan Opera, Olin Downes, then the chief music critic of The New York Times, constantly referred to her ''magnificent'' voice and her ''grand manner.'' Virgil Thomson in The New York Herald Tribune wrote that she had a voice ''with a beauty unmatched among the sopranos of this country.''
        Everything about Miss Milanov commanded respect, and that included her physical and vocal size.
        When Edward Johnson, then general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, heard her in 1937 at the Salzburg Festival, where she was singing under the baton of Arturo Toscanini, he immediately recognized her potential and offered her a contract that had two stipulations: She had to learn her roles in Italian (up to then she had been singing Italian operas in her native Croatian or in German), and she had to take off 25 pounds. English, After a Fashion
        She not only learned to sing in impeccable Italian, but she also learned English, after a fashion. For many years she would order a ''martinelli'' instead of a martini, an allusion to the musical associations with the tenor Giovanni Martinelli.
        She was always struggling with her weight and often tried to diet. But she liked to eat, and was herself a good cook, specializing in Yugoslav dishes. Once she took off considerable weight and a critic wrote that the dieting had also brought with it ''a disturbing lessening of her powers.''
        Miss Milanov shrugged off the comment. ''You try to do your best to please the public, please critics, please everybody,'' she said. ''Then you lose weight and they don't like you. What you do? You get bugs in the head.'' A Formidable Ego
        Miss Milanov was a legend around the Metropolitan Opera in more ways than one. Her ego was commensurate with her stature as a vocalist.
        ''I love applause,'' she once said to an interviewer. ''Money is not everything. Money is last.'' Rash was the singer who would try to upstage Miss Milanov at curtain calls.
        Stories about her circulated in the house almost from the moment she first set foot on stage. Once, during a stage rehearsal, she looked into the auditorium and saw the team of backup singers for ''Il Trovatore.'' She advanced to the footlights. ''Listen, listen, listen - learn, learn, learn,'' she told the young singers. In a Mischievous Mood
        It is said that she could drive her colleagues crazy during performances when she was in a mischievous mood. George London, as Amonasro in ''Aida,'' would be preparing for his big baritone solo. Miss Milanov at that moment would whisper in his ear, ''How's the baby, George?'' Or, in the ''Aida'' Nile scene with a tenor she did not particularly like: ''You're not in good voice tonight, are you? Do you think you can make that high B?''
        She could be inconsistent in her singing. It was noticed time and again that Miss Milanov could sing like an angel in one act and have pitch troubles in another.
        But there was never a time in any opera when she did not thrill her audiences, and she did so entirely through her voice, because she never was much of an actress. Definitely of the old operatic school of acting, she used the exaggerated gestures and facial expressions that went out in the early days of silent films. But she was a fine musician and never used her voice in an exaggerated manner.
        Her singing was refined, subtle, powerful, sensitive or dramatic, as the music demanded. She produced a big, warm sound and had an equalized scale up to a secure high C. In the ''Aida'' Nile scene she was able to take a haunting pianissimo on the C that will forever float in memory. She was equally impressive in ''Il Trovatore,'' an opera that she ''owned.'' Fortunately, she recorded that opera with Jussi Bjoerling and Leonard Warren, and connoisseurs believe it is the greatest performance of that work ever put on disks. Born to a Musical Family
        She was born in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, on May 17, 1906, the daughter of a bandmaster named Rudolf Kunc. The family was musical, and her brother, Bozidar, became a pianist and composer who often was her accompanist for her recitals. She also had an uncle who composed songs for her early recitals. She started singing as a child and made her recital debut in Zagreb when she was 15 years old.
        Milka Ternina, a great Wagnerian soprano at the turn of the century, heard the young soprano and took her as a pupil for three years. After graduating from the Royal Music Academy in Zagreb, where she won first prize in singing, Miss Kunc became a member of the State Opera, making her debut as Leonora in ''Il Trovatore.''
        Soon she was singing in opera houses in Germany and Central Europe, and appearing with orchestras under conductors like Bruno Walter. Toscanini invited her to Salzburg in 1937 to sing the soprano solo in the Verdi Requiem. She was to sing it with him many times in the future.
        She married a Yugoslav actor and director, Predrag Milanov, in 1937. He served as her dramatic coach for many years. Gave 445 Met Performances
        At the Metropolitan Opera she specialized in Verdi roles, above all ''Aida,'' which she sang at the house and on tour with the Met 75 times. She also appeared in ''Il Trovatore'' 49 times, ''La Forza del Destino'' 37 times, ''Un Ballo in Maschera'' 30 times, ''Otello'' 17 times, ''Simon Boccanegra'' 10 times and ''Ernani'' 8 times. Her other roles were Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' which she sang 57 times, Ponchielli's Gioconda, Puccini's Tosca, Bellini's Norma (a role ventured by only three sopranos at the Met in the 60 years before Miss Milanov sang it), Mozart's Donna Anna and Maddalena in Giordano's ''Andrea Chenier,'' the role she sang at her farewell. All told, she gave 445 performances with the company.
        Miss Milanov became an American citizen in 1946. ''When you come to America,'' she said, ''you get independent like American women.'' At that time, she was getting a divorce from Mr. Milanov. In 1947, she married Gen. Ljubo Ilic of Yugoslavia. Though trained as an architect, he had served as a general with the Resistance in southern France.
        At the time of his marriage, General Ilic, a close friend of Marshal Tito, was a diplomat. Miss Milanov left the Met from 1947 to 1951, returning to Yugoslavia with her husband. Accused of Being a Spy
        In 1949 she was accused by the Soviet Union of being a United States spy. She said the charge was ''silly.'' Her manager, Jack Adams, laughed at the allegation. He said that Miss Milanov could never have been a spy because she could never keep a secret, and that she was interested only in music, clothes, good food and wine.
        She was honored on her 25th anniversary at the Metropolitan Opera with an on-stage ceremony, with Rudolf Bing, the Met's general manager, as master of ceremonies. She decided to retire at the end of the 1965-66 season, just before the opening of the new opera house in Lincoln Center. ''It is better,'' she said, ''to go away on two legs rather than on one.''
        In her last operatic performance, on April 14, 1966, she sang the role of Maddalena in ''Andrea Chenier.'' In a ceremony on stage after the third act, Mr. Bing presented her with a Steuben glass cup and Lowell Wadmond, the chairman of the Met's board, gave her a silver tray. Two days later, Miss Milanov made her final appearance in the house. During the festivities on April 16, the final day at the old Met, she sang a ''Chenier'' duet with Richard Tucker.
        In her years of retirement, Miss Milanov kept up a lively interest in the affairs of the Metropolitan and devoted much of her time to coaching younger singers (among them Christa Ludwig, Regine Crespin and Anna Moffo). She divided each year between Manhattan and Yugoslavia. Her recent birthday was celebrated with a party for 20 close friends and relatives in her home, for which the soprano, as was her custom, did all the cooking.
        She is survived by her husband.
      