
       Christine Weston, a novelist and short-story writer whose work was set largely in India, died Wednesday in her apartment in Bangor, Me., her family reported. She was 85 years old.
        Christine Weston, a novelist and short-story writer whose work was set largely in India, died Wednesday in her apartment in Bangor, Me., her family reported. She was 85 years old.
        Praising her work, E. M. Forster wrote in 1950: ''Mrs. Weston writes seriously, carefully compassionately; she is not interested in the glamorous East or in the boosting of this or that political creed; she writes for those who are emotionally involved in the country and who love it.''
        Reviewing her novel ''Indigo'' in The New York Times in 1943, Willard Thorp cited ''the richness of the setting - the fragrance and the filth of the river and its plains, the languorous days and liq=uid nights, the rank jungle growth, the tug of racial conflict.''
        For her part, Mrs. Weston once wrote: ''The country of one's childhood is always predominant in one's memory: India is a beautiful, kindly land, and notwithstanding all the perils of life in the tropics, it is a fine country for any child to grow up in.''
        Mrs. Weston wrote 10 novels; more than 30 short stories, most of which appeared in The New Yorker magazine; two nonfiction books - on Ceylon and Afghanistan, respectively - and a children's book.
        She was born Christine Goutiere in Unao in what is now Uttar Pradesh in northern India. She was the daughter of Georges Goutiere and the former Alicia Wintle. Her father was a British barrister who was descended from French indigo planters in India. She grew up in India, assisted her father, married an American businessman, Robert Weston in 1923, and moved with him to Maine, where she resided thereafter. Some of her fiction is set in New England.
        Her other books include the novels ''Be Thou the Bride'' (1940), ''The Devil's Foot'' (1942), ''The Dark Wood'' (1946), ''The World Is a Bridge'' (1950), ''The Hoopoe'' (1970) and a volume of short stories, ''There and Then'' (1947).
        She was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1940.
        After her first husband's death in the early 1950's, she married Roger Griswold in 1960. He died in 1973.
        Mrs. Weston is survived by a sister, Geraldine Goutiere Acomb, of Avon, Conn., and two brothers, Vernon, of Patterson, Calif., and Peter, of Coral Springs, Fla.
      