
       Honor Tracy, a travel writer, columnist and novelist who satirized Irish and English society, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Oxford, England. She was 75 years old.
        Honor Tracy, a travel writer, columnist and novelist who satirized Irish and English society, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Oxford, England. She was 75 years old.
        The best novels by Miss Tracy, who was born and educated in England and lived much of her life in rural Ireland, were hailed by reviewers for wittily dissecting the nonsense in which people allow themselves to be immersed. With astringent mockery, she reveled in lampooning false pretensions, snobbery and intellectual muddles.
        Reviewers and readers repeatedly praised Miss Tracy's incisive travel accounts, particularly those from Japan, Spain and the West Indies, and her newspaper columns in The Sunday Times of London, The Daily Telegraph and other papers.
        Her specialty in more than a dozen novels was mocking English-Irish antagonisms. Her third novel, ''The Prospects Are Pleasing'' (1958), included this exchange between Tommy, an Irishman, and Felix, an Englishman:
        ''No wonder your empire is crumbling,'' Tommy said. ''Empires do,'' replied Felix cheerfully. ''It's a little way of theirs. Be glad you never got one.'' ''Who says we didn't?'' said Tommy angrily. ''Our empire is spiritual and intellectual and extends all over the world. It existed already when you fellows were running about painted blue. Yours was a little tinpot affair of guns and Bibles and trade.'' Handing On the Best
        In an interview, Miss Tracy remarked, ''If something interests, pleases or amuses me, I imagine it may do the same for other people and I try to pass it on. Also, I have an orderly mind, and writing is a sort of tidying up and clarifying of life.''
        Harold H. Watts, quoted in the 1972 book ''Contemporary Novelists,'' concluded that ''her novels are designed to be read with a glass of sherry in the hand, preferably in the company of persons as basically sensible as the ideal reader of Miss Tracy's work.''
        Honor Lilbush Wingfield Tracy was born on Oct. 19, 1913, in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk County, England, the daughter of a surgeon. She was educated privately and at the Grove School in London and lived in County Mayo, Ireland, in later years.
        She started her career as an assistant in a London publishing house, did intelligence work in the British Women's Auxiliary Air Force from 1939 to 1941, rising to sergeant, and was a specialist on Japan in London's Ministry of Information from 1941 to 1945. She was a correspondent for The Observer, then The Sunday Times and was a longtime contributor of talks and features for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
        Miss Tracy's travel works included ''Kakemono: A Sketchbook of Postwar Japan'' (1950), ''Spanish Leaves'' (1964), ''Winter in Castile'' (1973) and ''The Heart of England'' (1983). Her novels included ''The Deserters'' (1954), ''The Straight and Narrow Path'' (1956), ''A Number of Things'' (1959), ''A Season of Mists'' (1961), ''The Quiet End of Evening'' (1972) and ''The Ballad of Castle Reef'' (1979).
        She was married briefly and divorced and had no children.
      