
       Mitzi E. Newhouse, who donated $1 million in 1973 to make possible the continued operation of the two theaters in the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 years old.
        Mitzi E. Newhouse, who donated $1 million in 1973 to make possible the continued operation of the two theaters in the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 years old.
        The theaters had come upon hard financial times before Mrs. Newhouse made her gift, and in gratitude for her largesse, Joseph Papp, whose New York Shakespeare Festival was then the theater constituent of Lincoln Center, announced that the Forum Theater would be renamed the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater.
        Mrs. Newhouse was the widow of Samuel I. Newhouse, the publisher who built an empire that included more than 30 newspapers, the Conde Nast group of magazines, Random House books and several radio stations and cable-television systems. Abiding Interest in Fashion
        Mrs. Newhouse, diminutive and animated, was known as one of the most fashionably dressed women in the world.
        In 1959, Mr. Newhouse bought the Conde Nast group of magazines, which included Vogue, Glamour, Mademoiselle, Bride's, Self and House & Garden. The magazine group now also publishes The New Yorker, Vanity Fair and Conde Nast Traveler.
        Mr. Newhouse, who died in 1979, described the acquisition of the magazine group that devoted so much coverage to the fashion world as ''an anniversary present for my wonderful wife, Mitzi.'' The remark was interpreted as being only half in jest, but Mrs. Newhouse said she was ''particularly delighted to have Vogue in the family.'' Studied at Parsons School
        Mrs. Newhouse, who stood 5 feet tall - only 3 inches shorter than her husband - was the former Mitzi Epstein. She was a student at the Parsons School of Design when they met, and they were married on May 8, 1924.
        Throughout her life, Mrs. Newhouse cut a stylish figure in New York and Palm Beach with her designer clothes. Her favorite couturiers were Givenchy and Dior. Although her husband was not noted for gregariousness, Mrs. Newhouse managed to involve him in her world of society and high fashion, and they were inveterate first-nighters at New York theaters.
        Mrs. Newhouse presided over several homes, including the couple's 12-room duplex apartment on Park Avenue and their weekend retreat, Greenlands, a rambling early-American farmhouse in Harbourton, N.J.
        She is survived by her two sons, S. I. Newhouse Jr. and Donald E. Newhouse, both of New York City; a brother, Walter Evans of St. Louis; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      