
       Nancy Andrews, a stage actress and singer hailed for starring performances in ''Little Me'' opposite Sid Caesar and in ''Tobacco Road'' with John Carradine, died on Saturday of a heart attack at St. John's Hospital in Queens. Miss Andrews, who was 68 years old, had lived in Manhattan for decades, but was confined to a nursing home in
        Nancy Andrews, a stage actress and singer hailed for starring performances in ''Little Me'' opposite Sid Caesar and in ''Tobacco Road'' with John Carradine, died on Saturday of a heart attack at St. John's Hospital in Queens. Miss Andrews, who was 68 years old, had lived in Manhattan for decades, but was confined to a nursing home in Queens for the last year.
        She won a Theater World Award for her 1949 Broadway debut in a hit revue, ''Touch and Go,'' and had later popular successes in ''Hazel Flagg,'' ''Plain and Fancy,'' ''Pipe Dream'' and ''Juno.''
        Appraising ''Touch and Go,'' by Jean and Walter Kerr, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that ''Nancy Andrews is a versatile comedian who can contribute something out of her own bag of tricks to round out the humor of a song.
        ''As an incidental ballad, 'Miss Platt Selects Mate,' may not be exactly uproarious, but it is by the time Miss Andrews gets through larding it up with some very funny mugging.'' Other Stage Roles
        Off Broadway, her favorite roles included Mrs. Peachum in the long-running ''Three Penny Opera,'' Julie in Jerome Kern's ''Show Boat,'' Mother Grieg in ''Song of Norway,'' Aunt Eller in ''Oklahoma!'' Mrs. Mister in the award-winning revival of ''The Cradle Will Rock'' and the title role of a corrupt cosmetician in ''Madame Aphrodite.''
        On tours, she had leading roles in such musicals as ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''Funny Girl,'' ''Flower Drum Song,'' ''South Pacific'' and ''A Little Night Music.'' She also often starred in such straight plays as ''The Glass Menagerie'' and ''A Taste of Honey.'' Born in Minneapolis
        Nancy Andrews was born in Minneapolis to a hotel owner and a drama coach. She studied at Beverly Hills (Calif.) High School, the Pasadena Playhouse and the American Shakespeare Academy. She also studied the piano, wrote skits and music for a cabaret act, acted in a few films, including ''Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams'' and appeared widely on television.
        Surviving is a daughter, Tanima Cynthia Bossart, of Jamaica, Queens.
      