
       Lavinia Williams, a dancer and teacher, died of a heart attack on July 19 at the Canape Vert Hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. She was 73 years old.
        Lavinia Williams, a dancer and teacher, died of a heart attack on July 19 at the Canape Vert Hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. She was 73 years old.
        Miss Williams danced leading roles with the Katherine Dunham Dance Company from 1940 to 1945. She appeared with the company in the Broadway musical ''Cabin in the Sky'' and in the films ''Stormy Weather'' and ''Carnival of Rhythm.''
        After leaving the Dunham company, Miss Williams toured Europe with the Noble Sissle revival of ''Shuffle Along,'' dancing the role originated by Josephine Baker. Miss Williams also appeared on Broadway in a 1946 revival of ''Showboat'' and in ''Finian's Rainbow'' and ''My Darlin' Aida.''
        She was considered a leader in teaching Haitian dance. Miss Williams arrived in Haiti in 1953 to work with members of the National Folkloric Troupe. She founded the Haitian Institute of Folklore and Classic Dance in 1954, and taught in Antigua, the Bahamas, Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad.
        She also taught at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center School in Manhattan.
        Miss Williams wrote many essays and articles on Haitian dance and also a book, ''Haiti Dance.'' Joining Von Grona Troupe
        Miss Williams was born in Philadelphia, and began studying dance at the age of 3. As a scholarship student at the Art Students League in Manhattan, she was invited to sketch dancers during a rehearsal of the Eugene Von Grona American Negro Ballet, and she was invited to join the company. She remained with the company for three years, appearing with the Von Grona Swing Ballet in Lew Leslie's ''Blackbirds of 1939.''
        She danced in Agnes de Mille's ''Black Ritual,'' presented by Ballet Theater in its first season, in 1940. Miss Williams's teachers included Anna Sokolow, Martha Graham, Lisan Kay and Kyra Nijinsky.
        Miss Williams's marriage to Shannon Yarborough ended in divorce. She is survived by two daughters, Sara Yarborough Smith and Sharron.
      