
       Oriana Atkinson, a writer and the widow of Brooks Atkinson, a former drama critic of The New York Times, died of pneumonia on Monday at the Huntsville (Ala.) Hospital. She was 94 years old and had lived in Huntsville for 10 years.
        Oriana Atkinson, a writer and the widow of Brooks Atkinson, a former drama critic of The New York Times, died of pneumonia on Monday at the Huntsville (Ala.) Hospital. She was 94 years old and had lived in Huntsville for 10 years.
        Mrs. Atkinson was the author of eight books of fact and fiction, two of which were best sellers. ''Over at Uncle Joe's,'' published in 1947, was a personal account of her life among the Russians in wartime and postwar Moscow in the 10 months she spent there with her husband.
        Her 1954 best seller, ''Manhattan and Me,'' lightly described the changes that had occurred in her native New York since the time she had grown up in Greenwich Village. In the book, she wrote that although New York was the least beloved of cities, it was the most desired. She also wrote poetry and articles for The New York Times and other publications.
        The Atkinsons maintained a farm in Durham, N.Y., in the Catskills, where they lived after Mr. Atkinson's retirement. Later, for health and family reasons, they moved to Huntsville, where he died in 1984 at age 89. They had been married since 1926.
        Mrs. Atkinson is survived by a son from a previous marriage, James Torrey MacIlveen of Huntsville; two grandsons, James Torrey MacIlveen of Decatur, Ala., and Dr. Robert Bruce MacIlveen of Portland, Ore., and six great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 8, 1989, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Wednesday about Oriana Atkinson, a writer and the widow of Brooks Atkinson, longtime drama critic of The New York Times, listed her survivors incompletely.
        They include two additional grandchildren - Heather MacIlveen Nemeth of Ringwood, N.J., and Andrew MacIlveen of Plano, Tex. - and three additional great-grandchildren.
      