
       Diana Vreeland, the legendary fashion editor and creator of spectacular fashion exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was believed to be in her late 80's and had been in failing health for several years.
        Diana Vreeland, the legendary fashion editor and creator of spectacular fashion exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was believed to be in her late 80's and had been in failing health for several years.
        In the more than 40 years that she was associated with the fashion world, she was called an oracle, the high priestess of fashion, a myth maker. She was the fashion editor of Harper's Bazaar from 1937 to 1962, when she moved to Vogue. There, she was editor in chief until 1971.
        Instead of resting on her laurels, she went on, as consultant to the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, to a new career of staging annual fashion exhibitions that drew almost one million visitors a year and made the museum a center of fashion excitement for New York City and the world.
        ''She was and remains the only genius fashion editor,'' Richard Avedon, the photographer, said yesterday. Their professional relationship at Harper's Bazaar and Vogue was the inspiration for the movie ''Funny Face'' starring Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn.
        Despite a predilection for aristocratic luxury that recalled the gracious days before World War I, she had an innate understanding of the extraordinary pace of change in 20th-century life. She had an eye for what was new and imaginative, and many fashion designers say she gave them a crucial boost at an early stage in their career.
        Her sense of theater was evidenced in the way she moved - Cecil Beaton described her as ''an elegant crane picking her way out of a swamp'' -and the way she looked. Her cheeks and ear lobes were rouged, her lips and nails colored a clear red and her hair lacquered black until the end of her life.
        She was fashionably thin, and her favorite costume when she was working or partygoing was narrow black pants with either a black turtleneck sweater or elaborate tunic, depending on the occasion. For years she wore her hair in a snood - it became a kind of trademark - and wore ankle-strap low-heel sandals.
        She was born around the turn of the century in Paris - she was never very specific about her birth date - to the former Emily Key Hoffman, an American, and her husband, Frederick Y. Dalziel, who was Scottish. She had a younger sister, Alexandra.
        ''We went to Venice or Deauville in the summer or wherever everybody else went,'' she said of her childhood in Europe. ''Our parents spent their days having a good time. They never contributed a bloody thing and they and all our friends lived the life of Riley.'' Ballet and Riding
        In 1914, spurred by the onset of the war, the family moved to New York, where the Dalziel sisters went to ballet classes three times a week, learned to ride from Buffalo Bill Cody and occasionally attended schools such as Brearley for a few months. Diana Dalziel made her debut in 1922, and two years later, while vacationing in Saratoga, met and married T. Reed Vreeland, a banker who graduated from Yale the year she came out.
        They lived in Albany for four years and had two sons, Thomas R. Vreeland Jr., who became an architect, and Frederick, who entered the diplomatic service. Then they moved to Europe, where for a brief time Diana Vreeland ran a lingerie shop in London. When they returned to the United States in 1936, she began writing a column for Harper's Bazaar called ''Why Don't You . . . .''
        For a country in the midst of a Depression, it offered such heady suggestions as ''Why don't you put all your dogs in bright yellow collars and leads like all the dogs in Paris?'' or ''have a furry elk-hide trunk for the back of your car?'' It was widely satirized and widely read and the next year she was made fashion editor of the magazine. Made a Few Mistakes
        During most of the 1960's, when fashion was in turmoil, she presided over Vogue magazine, where the fashion world took everything she said seriously and where she made a few apparent mistakes, such as having experimental photographs taken with a wide-angle lens that distorted the models, giving them big heads and tiny feet. Nevertheless, fashion photographers were widely influenced by those pictures and began trying to see what their lenses could do.
        She breakfasted on tea and oatmeal, worked in bed in the mornings and showed up in her office around noon.
        Her legend grew as her aphorisms were circulated within the fashion world. ''Pink,'' she said, ''is the navy blue of India.'' ''The bikini is the most important thing since the atom bomb.'' She pronounced Celanese, the American fabric company, as if it were Italian: chelahnayzay, and broke down corduroy to its original components: cord du roi.
        She avoided the typewriter. ''Has anyone ever written a great love letter on a typewriter?'' she asked. ''A great suicide note?'' And she made pronouncements. Of Chanel, she said, ''her first customers were princesses and duchesses and she dressed them like secretaries and stenographers.''
        During this period, she asked Giorgio di Sant'Angelo, who was working in plastics and sculpture, to make accessories and then clothes.
        ''She sent me to Arizona,'' he said, ''with Veruschka, the model, four suitcases full of fabrics, wires and tape and told me to wrap and tie everything as I wanted and then she gave me eight pages in the magazine.'' Two Job Opportunities
        When Oscar de la Renta came to New York from Paris with a letter of introduction, she invited him to tea. He had two job opportunities, he told her, one doing custom clothes for Elizabeth Arden, the other designing ready-to-wear for Christian Dior-New York.
        ''What do you want to do with yourself?'' she asked.
        ''I want to get into ready-to-wear because that's where the money is,'' he told her.
        ''Then go to Arden because you will make your reputation faster,'' she advised. ''She is not a designer, so she will promote you. At the other place, you will always be eclipsed by the name of Dior.''
        ''That is exactly what happened,'' he said. ''And when I did go into ready-to-wear, she helped me. When I made all those gypsy clothes and the caftans in 1967, 1968, it was all Diana's suggestions.''
        She had a sense of fantasy that enveloped both her own image and her friends.
        ''Her thought process was very original,'' said Bill Blass, who became a friend of Mrs. Vreeland and her husband, who died in 1966. ''She always insisted I was British, no matter how many times I told her I was a hoosier from Indiana,'' Mr. Blass said. Last Career With Museum
        Her last career, with the Metropolitan Museum, began in 1973 with a retrospective showing of Balenciaga's clothes, from his first collection in 1938 to the wedding dress he made in 1972 for the Duchess of Cadiz, General Francisco Franco's granddaughter, a month before he died.
        The same year, she pulled together an exhibition called Innovative Designers in Paris, and each year there followed another eye-catcher that drew not only fashion enthusiasts but also people captivated by the color and drama of romantic Hollywood clothes, stylish American women (including Irene Castle, Isadora Duncan, Josephine Baker and Elsie de Wolfe), Russian peasants, the costumes of the Ballets Russes, fashions of the Hapsburg era, Yves Saint Laurent's designs, equestrian costumes, Chinese mandarin robes and dance clothes throughout history.
        The parties that heralded the openings each fall became major New York events where figures prominent in art, social and fashion circles mingled for dinner and dancing in the museum; the evening was capped by a stroll through the exotically lighted display halls with appropriate music and the flash of photographers' lights. Mrs. Vreeland was in the center of the action at all the parties except the one for ''Dance'' in 1986, when her health was too fragile. 'Elegance Is Innate'
        During the museum period, Mrs. Vreeland became the undisputed voice of the fashion world, and her presence at other parties and fashion openings was eagerly sought. She received awards from such diverse groups as the Italian fashion industry and the Rhode Island School of Design and she became a chevalier of the French National Order of Merit.
        In a book of her favorite photographs and sketches edited by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and published by Doubleday in 1980, she continued her penchant for aphorisms. ''Elegance is innate,'' she wrote. ''It has nothing to do with being well dressed.'' She also said, ''I loathe narcissism, but I approve of vanity.''
        In her memoirs, ''D. V.,'' published in 1984 by Alfred A. Knopf, she did not restrict her pronouncements to fashion. ''Chutney is marvelous,'' she wrote. ''I'm mad about it. To me, it's very imperial.'' And ''lettuce is divine, although I'm not sure it's really food.'' A Practical Slant
        Sometimes her observations had a remarkably practical slant. ''Whatever the fashion,'' she wrote in The New York Times in 1977, ''the important thing is time for upkeep. We take it for granted that a girl gets the best she can for herself. But, if she doesn't keep it up, if it isn't in beautiful condition, if the shoes aren't cleaned before she wears them every day and her bag isn't cleaned and everything in it cleaned, she'll never look like anything.''
        She was an early enthusiast on the subject of keeping fit, and the magazines she edited were filled with articles on exercise, skin and hair care and grooming long before these topics became major obsessions.
        ''The body must stay fit,'' she once explained. ''Fit people like themselves much better.''
        The woman who was sometimes described as having the profile of a cigar-store Indian told an interviewer once that ''you don't have to be born beautiful to be wildly attractive,'' and her friends insist that she carried this maxim out in her own life.
        ''Dinner alone with D. V. was one of the best ways I could think of to spend an evening,'' said Bill Blass.
        She lived in a basically red apartment on Park Avenue decorated by Billy Baldwin with lots of pictures, patterns, bibelots and calculated clutter. When she was editor in chief at Vogue, she also had her office painted bright red. Link to Aristocratic Years
        As fashion became more egalitarian during the later years of the 20th century, Diana Vreeland provided a link to the aristocratic years when it was the province exclusively of the very rich. At a time when most people were concerned with the practical qualities of synthetic fibers, she could speak of ''the feel of a perfect piece of silk'' as the ''greatest projection of pleasure.''
        She had the theatrical knack of a Diaghilev, whom she greatly admired and whom she made the subject of one of her Metropolitan Museum exhibits along with the costumes for his Ballets Russes. For the increasingly computerized fashion industry, she was a symbol of the grandeur of the past when drama and imagination were all. She had a glimpse of that past in her early years in Europe. In recreating it in her later life, she smoothed out the bumps and made it seem more exhilarating than perhaps it ever was.
        She is survived by her two sons, four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        The funeral will be private. A memorial service is planned for the fall, with the date to be announced later.
      