
       Olga Erteszek, designer and founder of the Olga Company, which makes women's underwear and sleepwear, died of cancer Friday at her home in Brentwood, Calif. She was 73 years old.
        Olga Erteszek, designer and founder of the Olga Company, which makes women's underwear and sleepwear, died of cancer Friday at her home in Brentwood, Calif. She was 73 years old.
        Olga, as she was known professionally, is credited with several design innovations, including the seamless bra and the nightgown with a built-in bra. The nightgown evolved from a hospital stay for a slipped disk, she explained in an interview in The New York Times in 1966. She tested it during her convalescence, found it satisfactory and made it part of her line. It was an immediate success. ''This is comfort, security,'' she said at the time. ''This is hospital tested. I know.''
        Her face as well as her name became familiar in a series of advertisements carrying her photograph and the slogan ''Behind every Olga there really is an Olga.'' A Rented Sewing Machine
        The designer had immigrated to California from her native Krakow, Poland, in 1941 with her husband, Jan Erteszek, a lawyer. Shortly after arriving, they started a business with $10 and a rented sewing machine. Their first product was a lacy garter belt she had learned to make from her mother. Bullocks-Wilshire bought all the samples and the young couple were in business.
        With Olga designing and her husband directing the business, the Olga Company reached a volume of $67 million when it was sold to Warnaco in 1984. Headquarters have remained in California. A daughter, Christina Johnson, is now design director of a line of lingerie for Warnaco called Olga's Christina, which is aimed at a younger, sports-oriented customer.
        In addition to winning many industry awards, Olga and her husband were honored for their community and humanitarian work. In 1985, they received the California Industrialist of the Year Award for lifetime achievement. Mr. Erteszak died in 1986.
        In addition to Christina Johnson, Olga is survived by two other daughters, Victoria Foote of New York City, and Mary Rudolph of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. tomorrow at the Church of the Recessional, Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, Calif.
      