
       Lydia Winston Malbin, an art collector and patron who assembled a major collection of modern European art, died on Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Lydia Winston Malbin, an art collector and patron who assembled a major collection of modern European art, died on Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Malbin's collection, known for its concentration on the work of the Italian Futurists, has been widely exhibited and much sought after by major museums. Last year, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, of which she was an honorary trustee, dedicated to her the catalogue of its show of work by the Futurist Umberto Boccioni, in honor of the significant loans she had made to the exhibition.
        Her collection, intensively documented through her own research and personal recollections, served as a research tool for graduate students in art history. Seminars organized by various universities were held over the years at her home in Birmingham, Mich., and later in New York. Collecting Since the 1930's
        Mrs. Malbin, who was born in Detroit on Nov. 13, 1897, was the daughter of Albert Kahn, an industrial architect who designed the Ford Motor Company's River Rouge plant in Detroit, among other important factory complexes in the United States and abroad. She began her collection in the late 1930's, traveling to New York City to seek the advice of Alfred Stieglitz, the photographer and early dealer in modernist art.
        In 1940, with Hilla Rebay, director of the Museum of Nonobjective Art in New York City - later to become the Guggenheim Museum - she organized for the Detroit City Club the first show of abstract art in Detroit.
        Later, after earning a master's degree in ceramics and painting from Cranbrook Academy in 1944, Mrs. Malbin began making trips to Europe to acquire art. With the encouragement of Alfred H. Barr Jr., founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, she made the acquaintance of such artists as Constantin Brancusi and Gino Severini, and bought work from them directly.
        Interested in American art as well, she purchased the first painting by Jackson Pollock to enter a private collection, in 1946 from Peggy Guggenheim's Art of This Century gallery. Until she became ill recently, Mrs. Malbin was still collecting contemporary art, and she had developed an interest in acquiring the work of photographers. Involved in Acquisitions
        She graduated from Vassar College in 1921. In 1927, she married Harry Lewis Winston, a lawyer in Detroit, who supported her interest in collecting. She was active in the Founders Society of the Detroit Institute of Arts, and served for eight years on the acquisitions committee of the Art Institute of Chicago. In 1961, she received an honorary doctorate in the humanities from Wayne State University in Detroit.
        In 1964, she was appointed a member of the Arts Commission for the City of Detroit, a post she held until recently. At the time of her death, she was a member of the drawings acquisitions committee of the Whitney Museum in New York City.
        In 1966, after the death of her first husband, she married Dr. Barnett Malbin of Detroit, who died in 1985. She is survived by two daughters, Sally Robinson of Bennington, Vt., and Ernestine Ruben of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry Lewis Winston Jr., of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; 10 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      