
       Dolores Ibarruri, the president of the Spanish Communist Party and a fiery orator who came to be known in the Spanish Civil War as ''La Pasionaria,'' died in a hospital here tonight after a long illness. She was 93 years old.  Party officials said after an emergency meeting that her body would be put on public display at party headquarters here beginning Tuesday and that burial would be Thursday.
        Dolores Ibarruri, the president of the Spanish Communist Party and a fiery orator who came to be known in the Spanish Civil War as ''La Pasionaria,'' died in a hospital here tonight after a long illness. She was 93 years old.  Party officials said after an emergency meeting that her body would be put on public display at party headquarters here beginning Tuesday and that burial would be Thursday. Delegations were being invited from Communist parties around the world, they said.
        The position of party president was mostly a symbolic one, but Mrs. Ibarruri had remained active until she began to weaken and fall sick with what doctors said was pneumonia a year ago. Until then, she regularly appeared at her office on the sixth floor of party headquarters, accompanied by her assistant and longtime friend, Irene Falcon.
        Rosa Conde, the Minister of Communications and spokeswoman for Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, rushed to the hospital upon the announcement of the death and said afterward that Mrs. Ibarruri was ''a historic figure'' and probably ''the major symbol of the tragedy of Spain in a good part of the 20th century.'' 'To Know How to Adapt'
        In what may have been her last major statement, Mrs. Ibarruri reflected her own political mellowing late in life when she told the 12th Party Congress in February 1988: ''Life doesn't stop. Everything moves. Everything changes. You have to know how to adapt our theories, our policies, to the specific conditions in which we are living and advance toward the future.''
        The burial ceremony is sure to be a major political event here. The Communist Party is the mainstay of a coalition called the United Left, which after years of decline rebounded in national elections last month to win 9 percent of the vote and 18 seats in Parliament.
        At Mrs. Ibarruri's bedside when she died was her sole surviving child, her daughter Amaya, and other relatives, The Associated Press reported.
      