
       Emily Kimbrough, an author, lecturer and former radio commentator, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old and had suffered from lung cancer, said a longtime friend, Sophia Yarnall Jacobs.
        Emily Kimbrough, an author, lecturer and former radio commentator, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old and had suffered from lung cancer, said a longtime friend, Sophia Yarnall Jacobs.
        Miss Kimbrough was the co-author, with Cornelia Otis Skinner, of ''Our Hearts Were Young and Gay,'' a reminiscence of her travels in Europe during the early 1920's. The book, published in 1942, was popular despite a review from Orville Prescott, then the critic for The New York Times, who wrote: ''There is a noticeable trace of mild humor to 'Our Hearts Were Young and Gay,' but it is very mild indeed, about as tasty as junket or cornstarch pudding. Why it should be a co-selection for December by the Book-of-the-Month Club is a dark mystery.''
        It was made into a movie starring Diana Lynn and Gail Russell. Miss Kimbrough wrote a sequel, ''We Followed Our Hearts to Hollywood,'' published in 1943.
        A native of Muncie, Ind., Miss Kimbrough graduated from Bryn Mawr College in 1921. Her first job was as a copywriter at Marshall Field & Company in Chicago, where she became editor of a publication, ''Fashions of the Hour.'' She joined The Ladies Home Journal as fashion editor, and was managing editor before she resigned to work as a freelance writer and lecturer. Joined WCBS Radio
        Her articles appeared in The New Yorker and Atlantic Monthly. Her subsequent books, including ''Forty Plus and Fancy Free,'' ''How Dear to My Heart'' and ''Water Water Everywhere.''
        In 1952, she joined WCBS Radio, where she wrote her own 25-minute daily program.
        Miss Kimbrough was also active in civil rights with the National Urban League during the 1960's.
        She was married in 1927 to John Wrench, and was divorced several years later.
        She is survived by her daughters, Margaret Wrench Kuhn of Westport, Conn., and Alis Wrench McCurdy, of Cam Cape Sebastian, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      