
       Parmenia Migel Ekstrom, a biographer, ballet historian, exhibition organizer and founder and president of the Stravinsky-Diaghilev Foundation, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in New York. She was 81 years old.
        Parmenia Migel Ekstrom, a biographer, ballet historian, exhibition organizer and founder and president of the Stravinsky-Diaghilev Foundation, died of cancer on Tuesday at her home in New York. She was 81 years old.
        Known to a wide public for ''Titania,'' her biography of the novelist and storyteller Isak Dinesen, Mrs. Ekstrom was known to a smaller audience for the huge collection of ballet material she had assembled over many years. Researchers were welcome to consult her collection, and many of them did so.
        In 1986 Mrs. Ekstrom put on an exhibition of ''Four Hundred Years of Dance Notation'' at the Grolier Club in New York; it was later shown at the Harvard Theater Collection in Cambridge, Mass. In 1972 she published ''The Ballerinas: From the Court of Louis XIV to Pavlova.'' Later, in association with Dover Publications, she published three books of ballet material: ''Pablo Picasso: Designs for 'The Three-Cornered Hat' '' (1978), ''Great Ballet Prints of the Romantic Era'' (1981) and ''Great Ballet Stars in Historic Photographs'' (1985).
        She was born in New York on June 14, 1908, and educated in the United States and in France. She founded the Ballet Guild before World War II and was a board member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Her early poems were translated into Spanish by the Nobel Prize-winning poet Juan Ramon Jimenez.
        In 1933 she married the art dealer Arne H. Ekstrom, now owner and director of the Cordier & Ekstrom Gallery in New York. She lived in France from 1946 to 1955. She was founder and co-director of the Galerie Michel Warren in Paris and also organized concerts for the city of Paris.
        After her return to New York, she founded the dance department of the New School for Social Research and wrote extensively on ballet.
        She is survived by her husband and by their son, Nicolas H. Ekstrom.
      