
       Sadie Tanner Mosell Alexander, a lawyer and civil rights advocate for 50 years who achieved a number of academic and professional distinctions as a black woman, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Cathedral Village, a retirement community, in Philadelphia. She was 91 years old and had been hospitalized with Alzheimer's disease in Cathedral Village since 1983.
        Sadie Tanner Mosell Alexander, a lawyer and civil rights advocate for 50 years who achieved a number of academic and professional distinctions as a black woman, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Cathedral Village, a retirement community, in Philadelphia. She was 91 years old and had been hospitalized with Alzheimer's disease in Cathedral Village since 1983.
        Mrs. Alexander was appointed by Harry S. Truman to the President's Committee on Civil Rights, which issued a report in 1948 that cited the gap between American ideals and practice. In 1981 President Jimmy Carter named her chairwoman of the White House Conference on Aging.
        On June 15, 1921, she became the second black woman in the United States to receive a Ph.D.; the first, Georgiana Simpson, got the degree a day earlier at the University of Chicago. Mrs. Alexander was also the first black woman in the nation to get a Ph.D. in economics and the first to receive a doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania.
        In 1927, she became the first black woman to graduate from the University of Pennsylvania's Law School; her father had been the first black man to graduate from the school. And she became the first black woman to pass the Pennsylvania bar.
        Before receiving her doctorate in economics, Mrs. Alexander had been the first national president of the black women's sorority, Delta Sigma Theta. Leader in Philadelphia
        Mrs. Alexander practiced law with her husband, Raymond Pace Alexander, a Harvard Law School graduate, until he became a judge in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia. In the 1940's, she was assistant city solicitor in Philadelphia. Two decades later she headed the city's Commission on Human Rights.
        She was active in the American Civil Liberties Union, Americans for Democratic Action and a board member of the National Urban League.
        Mrs. Alexander's grandfather was Bishop Benjamin Tucker of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, which was founded in Philadelphia. Her uncle was the 19th-century artist Henry Tanner.
        Mrs. Alexander leaves two daughters, Rae Alexander-Minter, who is director of public programs in education at the New-York Historical Society, and Mary A. Brown of Washington; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      