
       Helen Lehman Buttenwieser, among the first women admitted to the City Bar Association in New York and a civic leader, died of heart failure yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Helen Lehman Buttenwieser, among the first women admitted to the City Bar Association in New York and a civic leader, died of heart failure yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        As one of the city's earliest and most notable female lawyers, Mrs. Buttenwieser bore the admiration of younger generations modestly, with self-deprecating humor and candor. When the City Bar Association honored her last year at an annual dinner, she noted dryly, ''I'd rather be reading a book.''
        As a scion of a powerful family, she followed in its tradition of advocacy, philanthropy and concern for social issues. ''Public service is an obligation,'' Mrs. Buttenwieser once declared. 'Embodied the Concept'
        Two passions ruled her professional life: the law and civil liberties. They merged when she became the first chairwoman of the Legal Aid Society, an organization she served for more than 50 years.
        ''She embodied the concept of public service, and that her profession recognize its responsibility to people unable to represent themselves,'' said Alexander D. Forger, the current chairman of the Legal Aid Society and chairman of the Manhattan law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. As Legal Aid's first chairwoman, she nevertheless insisted on being referred to as chairman, rather than chairperson.
        ''That was her style,'' Mr. Forger said. ''She was of the old school, where matters of gender were less important than doing the job.''
        Mrs. Buttenwieser, who was born in Manhattan, was the daughter of two leading figures of ''our crowd,'' the 100 or so German Jewish families who founded leading banking, securities and retailing empires. Her mother, Adele Lewisohn, was the daughter of Adolph Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products. Her father was Arthur Lehman of the investment banking family. Her uncle, Herbert H. Lehman, was a New York Governor and a United States Senator from New York. Another uncle, Irving Lehman, was Chief Judge of the State Court of Appeals. Worked in Settlement House
        After two years at Connecticut College, she left and enrolled at the New York School of Social Work. Then, she worked in child guidance in a settlement house. In 1930, she was appointed to the Board of Child Welfare. She turned to the law when she aspired to a judgeship in what is now Family Court.
        In 1929, she married Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, a partner in the investment banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb & Company. In a typical ''our crowd'' twist, one of her husband's partners wed her sister, and the firm later merged with Lehman Brothers, the family firm.
        She graduated from New York University Law School and became the first woman to work at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. She left after a year because of the impending birth of a child.
        Mrs. Buttenwieser then set out to fashion a life that would enable her to fuse work, family and community service. She founded her own office and practiced law in Manhattan for 50 years, until she retired in 1986. ''I decided when you get to be 80, you retire,'' she said. A Busy Volunteer
        Her volunteer activities continued throughout her life and included many firsts. In 1939, she was the first chairwoman of a standing committee of the New York County Bar Association. Ten years later, she was elected trustee of the Title Guarantee and Trust Company, the first female director of a prominent banking concern.
        She was chairwoman of the New York City Committee on Adoptions and often served as a pro bono lawyer for children's aid organizations. Mrs. Buttenwieser and her husband frequently opened their home to foster children.
        When asked how she had been able to accomplish so much, she often credited ''a good husband.'' The two were a familiar sight at their regular table at Le Perigord, where they dined every Saturday at 8 P.M. precisely and where they recently celebrated their 60th anniversary.
        Mr. Buttenwieser, a prominent philanthropist and civic leader, nurtured his wife's career and shared her causes. Mrs. Buttenwieser, as a tireless defender of Alger Hiss, the former State Department official who was convicted of perjury in 1950 after trials that mesmerized the nation, was the host for Sunday brunches at her home, where the defendant and his advisers and friends would gather. 'Fundamental Values'
        ''She was a woman of great spirit and fundamental values - human rights, decency and the quality of individuals,'' said Oscar M. Ruebhausen, a longtime neighbor and retired partner of Debevoise & Plimpton, the firm that defended Mr. Hiss.
        Mrs. Buttenwieser put her money where her beliefs were. She was an investor in The Nation, the liberal magazine. She formed a coalition of small family foundations, Joint Foundation Support, to serve philanthropists by providing information on the effectiveness of nonprofit organizations.
        She was also a former trustee of the New York Civil Liberties Union, a former board member of the Citizens Committee for Children, a former chairwoman of Madison House, a former president of the New York Federation of Jewish Charities, a former board member of the Legal Defense Fund and a former member of the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary.
        She was a donor of Adele Lehman Hall at Barnard College, named for her mother, and was a former trustee of Connecticut College and a former board member of the Columbia University School of Social Work and the Dalton School.
        Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Frances L. Loeb of Manhattan; three sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, Peter, of Philadelphia, and Paul, of Boston; nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      