
       D'Jaris Hinton Watson, an administrator for three New York City mayors, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old.
        D'Jaris Hinton Watson, an administrator for three New York City mayors, died of cancer Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old.
        Mrs. Watson, a native of Columbia, S.C., retired earlier this year as special assistant for development to the president of the City University of New York Graduate Center.
        She spent much of her career in administrative work and with government agencies. President John F. Kennedy appointed her to his Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, and she was reappointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        She worked under three mayors, Robert S. Wagner, John V. Lindsay and Abraham D. Beame, serving on the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary, the New York City Youth Board, the advisory council of the Department of Welfare and the executive committee of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council. Began in Philadelphia
        Mrs. Watson began her career as a public information specialist for Mayor Joseph S. Clark Jr. of Philadelphia. She came to Manhattan 33 years ago, after her marriage, and worked in administrative capacities for the Citizens Committee for Children of New York City and the Ford Foundation. She was vice president of the Board of Mediation for Community Disputes and was a consultant to former Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson of Newark. She joined the City University staff in the late 1960's.
        Mrs. Watson was a member of several boards, including those for the Northside Center for Child Development, the New York Urban League and the United Neighborhood Houses.
        She was a graduate of Talladega College and earned a master's degree from the Atlanta University School of Social Work. She did postgraduate work at the University of Pennsylvania School of Social Work.
        She is survived by her husband, James L., a judge on the United States Court of International Trade; two daughters, Karen Allen and Kris, both of Manhattan; a son from a former marriage, Norman A. Jenkins, also of Manhattan; a sister, Novella Turner of Portland, Me.; two brothers, James M. Hinton Jr. of Augusta, Ga., and Rodney Hinton of Washington, and two grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held on Nov. 16 at 4 P.M. at the Riverside Church, 120th Street and Riverside Drive.
      