
       Maud Russell, who spent a quarter of a century in China as a welfare worker and teacher for the Young Women's Christian Association and lobbied for American recognition of the Chinese Communist Government after World War II, died of lung cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96 years old.
        Maud Russell, who spent a quarter of a century in China as a welfare worker and teacher for the Young Women's Christian Association and lobbied for American recognition of the Chinese Communist Government after World War II, died of lung cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96 years old.
        Miss Russell went to China in 1917 as part of the Y.W.C.A.'s missionary service and spent much of her time in Changsha, the capital of Hunan province. When the revolutionary army of Chiang Kai-shek advanced on the city in 1930, she refused to leave with other British and American missionaries, who gave her up for dead and held a memorial service in her honor.
        She survived that siege and others in the years of civil war and the war with Japan that began in the mid-1930's, remaining in China until her return to the United States in 1943.
        After World War II, she became executive director of the Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy, which promoted friendship with the Communist forces that soon drove Chiang and the Nationalists from the continent and onto Taiwan. She published a journal, Far East Reporter, from 1953 until this year and lectured for many years on China and other Asian countries.
        In the early 1950's political critics and members of Congress charged that she was a Communist Party member. Called before the Senate Internal Security subcommittee, she invoked her Fifth Amendment privilege against involuntary self-incrimination when asked if she was a member.
        Miss Russell was born in Hayward, Calif. and studied at Columbia University. She is survived by two nieces, Susan Pardee of Tustin, Calif., and Patricia Fulham of Lake Canada, Calif.
      