
       Dr. Pearl Ma, who was chief of microbiology at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan, died of cancer Wednesday in Hong Kong, according to word received at the hospital here. Dr. Ma was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan until she returned recently to her native Hong Kong.
        Dr. Pearl Ma, who was chief of microbiology at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan, died of cancer Wednesday in Hong Kong, according to word received at the hospital here. Dr. Ma was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan until she returned recently to her native Hong Kong.
        Dr. Ma was an internationally known research specialist in microbiology and parasitology.
        In recent years, she devoted much of her time to investigating the origins of cryptosporidiosis, a disease common among AIDS victims and one that can cause potentially fatal diarrhea.
        Dr. Ma was co-editor with Dr. David Armstrong of the book, ''Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and Infections of Homosexual Men,'' published by Yorke Medical Books in 1984. A prolific author of scientific articles, she presented her findings at many professional gatherings, including the international conference on AIDS held in Montreal earlier this year. Served on AIDS Panel
        Dr. Ma, who held a Ph.D. in microbiology from Jefferson University, was assistant professor of clinical pathology at the New York University School of Medicine at the time of her death. She was also a member of the New York City Health Department's task force on AIDS and was chairwoman of the advisory committee on parasitology for the city's Bureau of Laboratories.
        She came to the United States after World War II and received a bachelor's degree from Rosemont College in Pennsylvania and a master's in microbiology from the University of Pennsylvania.
        Before joining St. Vincent's in 1970 as head of its microbiology department, she was chief of microbiology and cytogenetics and director of clinical pathology at Akron (Ohio) City Hospital.
        She is survived by her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Chiu Ki Ma of Kong Kong, and eight brothers and sisters.
      