
       Elaine de Kooning, a painter, teacher and writer on art, died of lung cancer yesterday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. She was 68 years old and lived in East Hampton.
        Elaine de Kooning, a painter, teacher and writer on art, died of lung cancer yesterday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. She was 68 years old and lived in East Hampton.
        Mrs. de Kooning, who was married to the artist Willem de Kooning, was a highly versatile painter whose work ranged from realism to abstraction but was grounded in the gestural Abstract Expressionism of the New York School. Her landscapes, portraits and studies of athletes in action were notable for their verve and freshness.
        ''I always say I'm an escape artist,'' she told the critic Rose Slivka when asked to characterize her style. ''Style is something I've always tried to avoid. I'm more interested in character. Character comes out of the work. Style is applied or imposed on it.'' Sketches for a Series
        Seized by a particular theme, she would explore many aspects of it. She did 50 watercolor sketches, for instance, to begin a series devoted to Bacchus, a series inspired by her encounter with ''the churning, writhing movement'' of a statue in the Luxembourg Gardens in Paris in 1976.
        When she was commissioned in 1962 to do a portrait of President John F. Kennedy for the Truman Library in Independence, Mo., she characteristically immersed herself in the project, turning out hundreds of sketches and some two dozen finished canvases in her attempt to capture the President's restless energy.
        One of the finished portraits hangs in the Truman Library; the other is in the John F. Kennedy Library at Cambridge, Mass. Cave Art Inspired Recent Work
        Her recent work was inspired by the paleolithic cave paintings of Lascaux in France and Altamira in Spain, which she felt were close in spirit to 20th-century art. In her show at the Fischbach Gallery in New York City last November, the grafitti-like images of horses, deer, antelope, bison and bulls appeared in flowing panorama, seeming to emerge - as they do in the caves themselves - by means of spontaneous brushwork from the rough, accidental surfaces of the cave walls. The ambitious series was the culmination of work begun in 1983 after a visit to Lascaux.
        Elaine Marie Catherine Fried was born in New York City on March 12, 1920, the oldest child of Charles Frank and Mary Ellen O'Brien Fried. She was introduced to art at an early age by her mother, who covered the walls of their Brooklyn home with reproductions of famous paintings. After her graduation from Erasmus Hall High School, she put in a brief stint at Hunter College, then switched to the Leonardo da Vinci Art School in Manhattan, where she fell in with a congenial group of abstract and Social Realist painters. In 1938, at the age of 18, she met Mr. de Kooning in a Manhattan cafeteria. They were married in 1943. First Solo Show in 1952
        Mrs. de Kooning's first solo exhibition was in 1952 at the Stable Gallery in New York. An insightful writer and lecturer on art, she held teaching posts at many colleges and universities, including Yale, Carnegie-Mellon, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Georgia, Bard College, the Cooper Union and the Parsons School of Fine Art in New York.
        Her work is in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Guggenheim Museum in New York and in a number of other institutions throughout the country.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Marjorie Luyckx, and two brothers, Conrad and Peter Fried, all of Freeport, L.I., and a stepdaughter, Lisa, of Springs, L.I.
        A funeral service will be held at 1 P.M. on Saturday at the Williams Funeral Home, 99 Newtown Lane, in East Hampton.
      