
       Frances Hammer, a painter and the wife of Dr. Armand Hammer, the industrialist and philanthropist, died of pneumonia on Saturday after undergoing surgery for a broken hip at the UCLA Medical Center. She was 87 years old and lived in the Westwood section of Los Angeles.
        Frances Hammer, a painter and the wife of Dr. Armand Hammer, the industrialist and philanthropist, died of pneumonia on Saturday after undergoing surgery for a broken hip at the UCLA Medical Center. She was 87 years old and lived in the Westwood section of Los Angeles.
        During their 33-year marriage, Mrs. Hammer regularly traveled with her husband, the 91-year-old founder and chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, on trips to foster business, East-West trade, benefactions and art collecting.
        In their most recent travels, the couple had been seeking to raise $1 billion for research to find a cure for cancer. Mrs. Hammer was also active in civic, charitable and artistic endeavors in the Los Angeles area.
        Born Frances Barrett, Mrs. Hammer was a native of Chicago, where she was educated in Catholic schools and specialized increasingly in painting. A copyist, she reproduced more than 200 masterpieces in the Hammer collections while the originals were on exhibition around the world, said Frank Ashley, an Occidental spokesman. She gave many of her canvases to friends.
        The couple had been acquainted for many years and were married in early 1956, after the death of Mrs. Hammer's first husband, Dr. Elmer Tolman, of Lake Forest, Ill., and Dr. Hammer's divorce from his second wife.
        Frances Hammer was a co-founder of the International Student Center of the University of California at Los Angeles, a leading sponsor of the city's Music Center and a member of the Campobello International Park Commission, which cares for the Bay of Fundy island retreat of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his family. Dr. Hammer bought Campobello and gave it to the Governments of the United States and Canada.
        Mrs. Hammer was also a charter board member of the Armand Hammer United World College of the American West in Montezuma, Colo., and a frequent participant in conferences on world peace and human rights sponsored by her husband.
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Hammer is survived by three sisters, Margaret Vandergrift, of Los Angeles, Catherine Barrett, of Chicago, and Helen Andrews, of New York City.
      