
       Gladys Burr, who spent 42 years in state institutions after being mistakenly labeled mentally retarded, died Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn. She was 82 years old.
        Gladys Burr, who spent 42 years in state institutions after being mistakenly labeled mentally retarded, died Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn. She was 82 years old.
        In 1978, the state of Connecticut -convinced that Miss Burr had never been retarded - freed her, 42 years after her family had had her committed to Norwich State Hospital at age 29 because of ''trouble at home.'' In 1985, Miss Burr won $235,000 in compensation from the state of Connecticut in a suit she filed in 1979.
        Miss Burr was committed in January of 1936 on the recommendation of her mother and her family doctor, a cousin. She was first diagnosed as psychotic and then declared mentally retarded. In the years that followed, a succession of mental tests, some now outdated, gave contradictory results. The first I.Q. tests showed that she was mildly retarded. Little note was taken of the fact that she had completed two years of high school and a three-month business course. Later tests, from 1946 to 1961, indicated that she had I.Q. scores ranging from 99 to 104 - considered within the normal intelligence range. A 'Living Hell'
        On July 10, 1936, Miss Burr was transferred to the Mansfield Training School, which she described as ''living hell.'' She said she had been beaten, forced to work in the laundry all night and to lift patients heavier than herself.
        State officials said Miss Burr did not ask to be released until 1968. But her lawyer, Richard Altshuler, said she made requests in at least three letters in the 1940's. In January 1979, she received a one-paragraph letter from the Mansfield Training School saying she was being released but without giving any reason.
        In 1979, her lawyer filed a suit against a group of state mental health officials seeking $125 million and contending that they had deprived Miss Burr of her civil rights and had subjected her to slavery.
        Mr. Altshuler produced reports that showed officials knew she was not retarded for more than 30 years. Miss Burr spent her remaining years in a nursing home in Colchester, Conn., and remained bitter about her experience. ''What did I do to deserve this treatment?'' she said. ''I forgive people, but I'll never understand it.''
      