
       Marie Syrkin, an author, editor and teacher who was active in the Zionist cause for many decades, died of cancer Wednesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89 years old and lived in Santa Monica.
        Marie Syrkin, an author, editor and teacher who was active in the Zionist cause for many decades, died of cancer Wednesday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89 years old and lived in Santa Monica.
        Miss Syrkin was born in Bern, Switzerland, the daughter of Dr. Nachman Syrkin, a prominent Socialist Zionist theoretician. She came with her family to the United States in 1908 and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Cornell University, then taught high school in New York City. Her first book, ''Your School, Your Children,'' published in 1944, was an impassioned plea for schools to propagandize democratic values instead of remaining neutral in the war of ideas.
        In 1950 Miss Syrkin was named associate professor of English at Brandeis University, where she taught until her retirement in 1966 as professor of the humanities.
        Her involvement with Zionism dated to the early 1930's, when she was a translator of Yiddish poetry and a commentator on Jewish life in the United States. She was a founder of the Labor Zionist journal Jewish Frontier in 1934 and for a quarter century beginning in 1948 was its editor in chief. Her most recent article for the magazine appears in its current issue. Golda Meir Biography
        In the 1940's Miss Syrkin made the first of many trips to Palestine - later Israel - to interview survivors of the Holocaust and to gather material for her 1947 book, ''Blessed Is the Match: The Story of Jewish Resistance,'' which chronicled the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto and other revolts against the Nazis.
        A longtime friend and associate of Golda Meir, who was also a schoolteacher, Miss Syrkin published ''Golda Meir: Woman With a Cause'' - a three-volume biography of the Israeli Prime Minister - in 1964. She was a prolific writer for such periodicals as Midstream, Commentary, The Saturday Review, The New York Times Magazine and The New Republic. Her final volume was a collection of essays from those and other magazines entitled ''The State of the Jews,'' published in 1980.
        From 1965 to 1969 Miss Syrkin was on the executive body of the World Zionist Movement and during that period was honorary president of the Labor Zionist Movement in the United States.
        Miss Syrkin was married to the poet Charles Reznikoff, who died in 1976.
        She is survived by a son, David Bodansky of Seattle; a sister, Zivia Wurtele of Santa Monica; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      