
       Angna Enters, a dancer and mime, painter and writer, died on Saturday at the County Manor Nursing Home in Tenafly, N.J. She was 82 years old.
        Angna Enters, a dancer and mime, painter and writer, died on Saturday at the County Manor Nursing Home in Tenafly, N.J. She was 82 years old.
        Miss Enters became internationally known during the 1920's for an individual style of dance-mime that Stark Young described as ''free of influences foreign to her nature.'' She specialized in character vignettes, frequently described as wordless monologues, developing nearly 300 separate characters for her touring Theater of Angna Enters from 1928 to 1960.
        Her range of subjects was wide, from sharply specific satires on politics and the arts to portraits of ordinary young women. ''To my way of thinking, the greatest quality about Angna Enters is her unfetteredness,'' the dance critic Walter Terry wrote in 1946. In her 1926 ''Moyen Age,'' one of her best-known pieces, Miss Enters seemed to have stepped out of a medieval painting as she enacted a woman's reactions to stories of events in the life of Christ, in a series of fluid poses to music by Frescobaldi. Also an Artist and Sculptor
        Miss Enters was also a well-known artist and sculptor who held her first New York exhibition in 1933. She designed and executed all the costumes and props for her performances, and illustrated several of the books she wrote on her life and her work. She also composed scores for some of her pieces.
        Miss Enters was born in New York City of an Austrian father and French mother, and spent her childhood in Milwaukee and traveling through Europe. She returned to New York in 1922 to enroll at the Art Students' League, where she studied with John Sloan while doing lettering in an advertising agency during the daytime.
        Miss Enters had studied ballet in Milwaukee as she had studied piano, she once said, ''to become 'accomplished.' '' Her adult interest in dance began with a concern for the visual representation of movement. First Dance Work in 1923
        She enrolled in dance classes taught by Michio Ito in 1922, and performed as his partner in a series of recitals in 1923. That year she created her first piece, ''Ecclesiastique,'' an evocation of a statue of a Gothic Virgin, which she performed in a Broadway revue organized by Ito. The piece later became ''Moyen Age.'' She presented her first solo program in 1924 at the Greenwich Village Theater with a borrowed $25 as her operating budget.
        Her reputation grew rapidly over the next two years, and Miss Enters made her London debut in 1928, performing for the first time in Paris the following year.
        Miss Enters wrote three volumes of autobiography - ''First Person Plural,'' ''Silly Girl'' and ''Artist's Life'' - a novel, ''Among the Daughters'' (1956), and a book about her work, ''On Mime,'' published in 1966. Her plays, ''Love Possessed Juana: A Play of the Inquisition in Spain'' and ''The Unknown Lover,'' were presented by the Houston Little Theater in 1946 and 1947. A University Lecturer
        A noted master teacher, Miss Enters lectured at universities throughout the country. In the early 1960's, she was an artist in residence at the Dallas Theater Center and Baylor University and a fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies at Wesleyan University.
        Miss Enters retired from performing in 1960, and had been in nursing homes since 1976. There are no survivors.
      