
       Dr. Ruth Fox, a psychoanalyst who in 1959 became the first medical director of The National Council on Alcoholism, an agency devoted to alcoholism prevention, died in her sleep Friday at a nursing home in Washington. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Ruth Fox, a psychoanalyst who in 1959 became the first medical director of The National Council on Alcoholism, an agency devoted to alcoholism prevention, died in her sleep Friday at a nursing home in Washington. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Fox, a native New Yorker, performed pioneering research on the use of Antabuse, a chemical used widely in alcoholism treatment today. She was founder and first president of the American Medical Society on Alcoholism and Other Drug Dependencies in 1954. She wrote, lectured and taught extensively on the subject. She also maintained a private practice and was one of the first psychoanalysts willing to accept alcoholics as patients.
        The winner of a number of honors, she received, among others, the Citation of Merit award from the Malvern Institute for Psychiatric and Alcoholic Studies in 1963; the Silver Key award from the National Council on Alcoholism in 1972, and the annual award from the American Medical Society on Alcoholism in 1973. Retired in '79
        She was a fellow of several groups including the American Psychiatric Association, the New York Academy of Medicine, the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, the American Health Association and the American Society of Clinical Hypnosis. She retired in 1979.
        Dr. Fox was a graduate of Rush Medical College in Chicago. She took a premedical course in Paris, where she resumed study after she received her medical degree. She also studied in Vienna and Frankfurt and interned at the Rockefeller Foundation in Beijing. On her return to the United States, she spent a year treating mental cases in a Denver psychiatric hospital, did four years of research in pediatrics at the Fifth Avenue Hospital, and for four years was laboratory chief at the Neurological Institute.
        She is survived by a son, McAlister Coleman of Manchester, Mass.; a dauhter, Ann Coleman Allen of Edgartown, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      