
       Nedda Harrigan Logan, an actress who was the president of the Actors' Fund of America for the last 10 years, died of lung cancer Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89 years old.
        Nedda Harrigan Logan, an actress who was the president of the Actors' Fund of America for the last 10 years, died of lung cancer Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89 years old.
        Mrs. Logan was a daughter of Edward Harrigan, the composer, writer and vaudeville performer, and the wife of Joshua L. Logan, the director, producer and writer, from 1945 until he died in July.
        Nedda Logan appeared in many Broadway plays, including ''Dracula,'' ''Merry Andrew'' and ''Becky Sharp,'' as well as films, including ''Charlie Chan at the Opera,'' ''The Case of the Black Cat'' and ''Devil's Island.'' Starring in Plays Overseas
        She was a founder of the Stage Door Canteen in 1942 and helped organize and starred in the first plays sent overseas by the U.S.O. Those included ''Three's a Family'' and ''Personal Appearance.''
        Mrs. Logan was also a chairwoman and founder of the Actors' Fund blood bank and a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York and the National Corporate Theater Fund, which helps finance regional theaters and neighborhood playhouses.
        In recent years, she and Mr. Logan toured widely, often with their children, in a revue called ''Musical Moments,'' which featured songs from major shows Mr. Logan directed, including ''South Pacific,'' ''Paint Your Wagon'' and ''Bus Stop.'' The finale was often a duet the couple sang to each other, ''I Remember It Well'' from ''Gigi.'' Making an Effort
        Before marrying Mr. Logan, she was the widow of a character-film actor, Walter Connolly. Of her life as a Hollywood wife, she remarked in 1940: ''If you don't make an effort, it's awfully easy to fall into the soft, indolent - and pleasant - life of the many Hollywood women who are content to just keep the home fires burning for their hard-working, large earning and famous husbands. So you just subside, take to golf, bridge and 'causes.' ''
        She was a native of Rumson, N.J., and a graduate of the National Park Seminary in Washington.
        Surviving are two daughters, Ann Connolly, of Norwalk, Conn., and Harrigan Logan, of Los Angeles; a son, Thomas Heggen Logan of Manhattan; three granddaughters, and a great grandson.
      