
       Frances (Fanny) Steloff, one of the country's most distinguished independent booksellers, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 101 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Frances (Fanny) Steloff, one of the country's most distinguished independent booksellers, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 101 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Steloff founded the Gotham Book Mart in 1920 and, over the years, turned it into an international literary haven. It is still thriving at 41 West 47th Street in Manhattan, an anachronism in a time of failing independent bookstores.
        Soon after the store opened, it attracted authors, dramatists, poets and artists. Among those who came to chat, to browse and to see if their books and plays were on the shelves were Theodore Dreiser, John Dos Passos, H. L. Mencken and Eugene O'Neill. Her customers included George and Ira Gershwin, Ina Claire and Charlie Chaplin, and, more recently, Alexander Calder, Stephen Spender, Woody Allen, Saul Bellow, John Guare and Garson Kanin.
        She championed the experimental and challenged the censors. Her courage in purchasing shipments of the banned ''Lady Chatterley's Lover'' directly from D. H. Lawrence in Italy in the late 1920's and in ordering smuggled copies of ''Tropic of Cancer'' from Henry Miller in Paris during the 1930's led to lawsuits and landmark decisions on censorship.
        Although Miss Steloff sold the Gotham in 1967 to Andreas Brown, another book lover, she continued to live in an apartment on the third floor, above the store, and remained as a working consultant. She ignored her age and her semiretirement, descending every afternoon to sit at a desk in her own corner, occasionally jumping up to press books on browsers, and then to direct them to the cash register. Browsers Welcome
        Essentially a person of no literary pretensions, Miss Steloff made her bookstore a place cherished as the habitat for the new and the avant-garde in literature, where small magazines and forgotten books of poetry, out-of-print books on belles-lettres and works on film and the theater could be found in an atmosphere congenial to browsers.
        Under her guidance the Gotham became a meeting place for the literati and a bibliophile's paradise. The number of well-known writers, dancers, artists and theater people who were her customers, clients and friends made up an encyclopedia of 20th-century culture. At her 100th birthday celebration, on Dec. 31, 1987, greetings arrived from all over the world.
        Miss Steloff was one of the founders of the James Joyce Society, which still meets at the Gotham, although she never met the author. ''Sylvia Beach took care of his book wants at Shakespeare & Company in Paris,'' she said. ''But sometimes Joyce ordered books from the Gotham directly by mail - including during the last year of his life.''
        After working in several bookstores, she opened her own on West 45th Street in 1920. The store moved twice to larger quarters. ''It was a struggle at the beginning,'' she recalled. ''There were some days during the Depression when we didn't sell a single book.'' An Interest in the Mystical
        ''I am not the great brilliant person to decide about how good a book is,'' she said once. ''I judge books by my customers who buy them and spark others to read them.'' She was greatly interested in Oriental teachings, mystical experiences and philosophers not connected with established Western churches. Books in these fields were represented in her corner of the store.
        Along with its fame and reputation, the Gotham was also a very carefully operated book business. As the owner and the person who paid the salaries, Miss Steloff was demanding, irascible, unwearying and unable to understand why no one else was willing to put as many hours or as much concentration into the store as she did.
        Miss Steloff recalled some of the clerks who had worked for the Gotham over the years. ''There was Allen Ginsberg and LeRoi Jones and many poets in their youth,'' she said. ''Tennessee Williams lasted less than a day - he couldn't get here on time in the morning and, also, he wasn't very good at wrapping packages.'' Sold Flowers in Hotels
        Ida Frances Steloff was born Dec. 31, 1887, in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., a town full of gaiety in the summer and a bleak, wintry place for the rest of the year, especially for the poor. The Steloffs, who lived year round in Saratoga Springs, were among the very poor. When Miss Stefloff was little, she sold flowers on the verandas of the big hotels. The early death of her mother increased her misery, especially when her stepmother expressed her frustrations with poverty in the harshness she showed the children.
        At 12, Miss Steloff was taken in by a couple who offered her a home. But she soon found herself a menial in the household and was forced to drop out of the seventh grade - her last formal schooling. Once in desperation she ran away to New York City. It was not until she was 19 that she made a final move to New York. She landed a job at Loeser's, a Brooklyn department store, working in ''corsets.'' But during the Christmas rush, she was transferred to the books department.
        It was like giving a copy of Euclid to Isaac Newton: She had found herself and a way of life.
        For the next 12 years she worked in various bookstores: Schulte, Brentano and McDevitt-Wilson, where she developed what one friend called ''an instinctive taste for the best in modern literature,'' a taste that she was willing to gamble on when she had her own shop. She never referred to Gotham as a store; it was always a ''shop.''
        Her stature concealed her stamina. She ran the place, but she also opened the correspondence, wrapped and mailed packages, climbed up and down ladders and argued with publishers. Bookstore people were continually helping her down from ladders in her 80's. ''She feels,'' Mr. Brown said, ''as if she still has to stock the store.'' A Doctorate From Skidmore
        Miss Steloff was awarded a prize by the National Institute of Arts and Letters for distinguished service to the arts, was listed in Who's Who in the Theater and received an honorary doctorate from Skidmore College - an award that stood in sharp contrast to one of her remarks:
        ''I used to feel bitter and cheated about not having a formal education. But why should I? How could I, no matter what my education, ever have had the wonderful chance to have Thornton Wilder and other people talk to me personally, and right here in my shop! As if they were in their classrooms! I couldn't ask for anything more.''
        A battle to save the bookstore ended last February, when Mr. Brown bought the building that houses the store from the American Friends of the Hebrew University Foundation. With the $1 million proceeds, the foundation has established a scholarship at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem in the name of Miss Steloff's parents.
        It was quiet yesterday at the cozy bookstore, with a sprinkling of students and literary buffs brousing through the volumes. In the hall on the second floor hung oversized photographs of Miss Steloff - with Dylan Thomas in 1952, Anais Nin in 1966, Jean Cocteau in 1948, Salvador Dali in 1963, Marianne Moore in 1967. Memorial Service Is Planned
        Although funeral arrangements were not yet complete, Mr. Brown said yesterday that Miss Steloff would be buried Monday in the family plot in the Jewish Cemetery at Saratoga Springs.
        The Gotham will be closed on that day in her memory. Mr. Brown said he would post a sign and pictures of Miss Steloff in the bookstore window. A memorial service is to be held in three or four weeks, he said.
        On May 11, Miss Steloff was to have been presented Brandeis University's Notable Achievement Award.
        Miss Steloff was married to David Moss in 1923. They were divorced in 1930 and had no children.
        Surviving are a half sister, Belle Sidoroff, of Wilmington, Del., and a half brother, Al Steloff, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
      