
       Dame Daphne du Maurier, the author of ''Rebecca'' and other highly popular Gothic and romantic novels that were turned into films, plays and documentaries, died yesterday in her sleep at home in the village of Par in Cornwall, on the rugged southwestern coast of England, a setting she had peopled with characters who were cherished by readers all over the world.
        Dame Daphne du Maurier, the author of ''Rebecca'' and other highly popular Gothic and romantic novels that were turned into films, plays and documentaries, died yesterday in her sleep at home in the village of Par in Cornwall, on the rugged southwestern coast of England, a setting she had peopled with characters who were cherished by readers all over the world. She was 81 years old.
        ''Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again . . . I came upon it suddenly; the approach masked by the unnatural growth of a vast shrub that spread in all directions . . . There was Manderley, our Manderley, secretive and silent as it had always been, the gray stone shining in the moonlight of my dream, the mullioned windows reflecting the green lawns and terrace. Time could not wreck the perfect symmetry of those walls, nor the site itself, a jewel in the hollow of a hand.'' With 'Rebecca,' a Classic
        With those famous opening lines of ''Rebecca,'' written by Miss du Maurier when she was 31, she created one of the classic Gothic romances. It is a story about a young woman who marries a widower and becomes the new mistress of a mansion haunted by the image of his first wife. Trying to solve the mystery, she is drawn into a psychological labyrinth. As the model for Manderley, Miss du Maurier used Menabilly, a 70-room manor on the Cornwall coast. Later, fulfilling a childhood dream, she and her husband moved into the mansion that had served as the setting for her novel.
        One British critic called the novel ''a Charlotte Bronte story minus Bronte,'' but found it had its own appeal. Another critic, Basil Davenport, called it a ''melodrama, unashamed, glorying its own quality, such as we have hardly had since that other dependent, Jane Eyre, found that her house too had a first wife.'' In The New York Herald Tribune, Lewis Gannett wrote, ''You know the end before you know the beginning; you never know the beginning until, almost, the end. That is a writer's art. Call it a trick, if you like; a trick performed as well as Miss du Maurier performs this trick is art.'' 'I Lose Myself in the Plot'
        Long after the novel's international success, Miss du Maurier said she could never understand why it had become an instant favorite that eventually sold over a million hardcover copies. ''It is true that I immersed myself in the characters, especially in the narrator, but then this has happened throughout my writing career. I lose myself in the plot as it unfolds.''
        All her life she received letters from readers about the characters in ''Rebecca,'' often asking why she did not give her heroine a Christian name. She explained, ''The answer is simple - I could not think of one, and it became a challenge in technique, the easier because I was writing in the first person.''
        Although she had lived in Cornwall quietly, with occasional visits from her son and two daughters, to her neighbors she was known for her interest in protecting the integrity of the land and seascape around her against exploitation. Up to two weeks ago, she took her dog for daily walks along the beach. Several Films From Other Books
        Friends said she carried her authorial fame and honors lightly. As the wife of Lieut. Gen. Sir Frederick A. M. Browning, who died in 1965 after serving as treasurer to the Duke of Edinburgh, she was also known as Lady Browning. In 1969, Miss du Maurier was made a Dame Commander of the British Empire.
        In addition to ''Rebecca'' (the 1940 film that starred Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine), other movies adapted from her novels included ''Jamaica Inn'' (1939), ''Frenchman's Creek'' (1944), ''The Years Between'' (1946), ''Hungry Hill'' (1947) and ''My Cousin Rachel'' (1953). ''The Birds,'' directed by Alfred Hitchcock in 1963, was based on a short story by Miss du Maurier that appeared in a collection, ''Kiss Me Again, Stranger.''
        She also wrote a biography of her father, ''Gerald,'' a famous actor and theater manager; ''The du Mauriers,'' a family history; ''The Infernal World of Branwell Bronte, a biography of Patrick Branwell Bronte; and several plays - ''Rebecca,'' based on her novel; ''The Years Between'' and ''September Tide.'' The End as Beginning
        Once, talking about the technique of her writing genre, she said, ''What is a suspense novel? The term is a loose one, covering any story from a whodunit to a frivolity turning on which dark stranger gets the blonde. People in doubt, people mystified, people groping their way from one situation to another, from childhood to middle age, from joy to sorrow - these are the figures in a true suspense novel. They are traveling along a road of uncertainty toward an unseen goal. The suspense novel succeeds if the reader says to himself at the final page, 'Yes - it couldn't happen any other way.' In its end, to paraphrase Mary, Queen of Scots, is its beginning.''
        Miss du Maurier spoke of her writing without pretension, according to her friends. Asked if one of her novels was about ''boy meets girl,'' the author replied, ''No, it's ghoul meets goon.''
        She is survived by a son, Christian Frederick du Maurier-Browning, and two daughters, Lady Tessa Montgomery and Lady Flavia Leng.
      