
       Elizabeth Cornelia Hall, the retired head librarian of the New York Botanical Garden, died of heart failure Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 91 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Elizabeth Cornelia Hall, the retired head librarian of the New York Botanical Garden, died of heart failure Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 91 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Miss Hall used to say that she was just no good at retiring. She tried it once, at 70. But she promptly went to work for the Horticultural Society of New York as its librarian emeritus. She returned to the New York Botanical Garden in 1982, in its plant-information service, dispensing advice on dubious mushrooms and sympathy to people with terminal plants.
        Once, when a caller asked how she might kill a tree without her husband's knowledge, Miss Hall replied, ''Well, you could kill your husband first.''
        She worked at the plant-information service five days a week until January.
        Officially, Miss Hall was the Botanical Garden's head librarian for 23 years, from 1937 to 1960. She worked as a research librarian for an additional three years, then became curator of education before attempting retirement in 1967. 'The Gentle Side'
        Vigorous and energetic, Miss Hall made three trips to China while in her 80's and continued reading at least one book a week. ''I go to bed around midnight and get up at 7 A.M.,'' she explained, ''and I don't use up energy with makeup, hairdos or manicures.''
        She inspired and nurtured America's leading garden writers and horticulturists. ''Helping people to learn about, care for and enjoy plants has given me a joyous life,'' she said on her 90th birthday. ''Plants bring out the gentle side of people.''
        For her 90th birthday, the New York Botanical Garden, plus the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Horticultural Society of New York, the New York branch of the Herb Society of America and Wave Hill, paid tribute to her at a birthday party, attesting to the fact that Miss Hall had become an indispensible reference work herself.
        Born in Meriden, Conn., she graduated from Radcliffe College and earned a certificate from the Ambler School of Horticulture, now part of Temple University, and a master's degree from Columbia University.
        Before joining the Botanical Garden, Miss Hall had been the librarian at the Horticultural Society of New York. She had previously worked as a children's librarian for the New York Public Library.
        She aided generations of horticulturists, who admired her wisdom and were amused by her quirks. ''Hers has been an enthusiastic force amongst her worldwide colleagues,'' wrote Charles D. Webster, former president of the Horticultural Society.
        Miss Hall loved horse racing. She kept a well-organized card catalogue of promising 2-year-olds, which she called ''my sleepers,'' and she went to the track with relish. ''Here I was, supposed to be a perfectly old-maid, New England librarian,'' said Miss Hall, in no danger of becoming a stereotype. She delighted in telling of once having won the daily double.
        She left no survivors.
      