
        Dame Freya Stark, a resourceful and scholarly travel writer who was the first Westerner to journey through many regions of the Middle East, died on Sunday at her home in Asolo in northeast Italy. She was 100..
        Dame Freya, who was born in Paris and grew up in several homes in England and Italy, wrote 24 travel books and autobiographies and eight volumes of letters from the 1930's to the 1980's. Many of the books have been reprinted several times, recently by Transatlantic Arts and Overlook Press, among other houses, and were based on often hazardous journeys by vehicle, camel and donkey.
        Dame Freya's books about the Middle East and nearby countries were called lucid, spontaneous and elegant and were lauded for imparting an inspired sense of both history and people. The consensus of reviewers was that she wrote with spirit, authority and humor and that she was a consummate traveler because of her fearlessness, candor, charm, idealism and streak of naivete.
        In a foreword to "The Journey's Echo: Selections From Freya Stark" (1964), the writer Lawrence Durrell praised her as a "poet of travel" and "one of the most remarkable women of our age." Many Languages and Dialects
        Dame Freya was essentially self-taught. In her youth, she became fluent in Arabic and Turkish, and over the years she mastered other languages and many dialects. It was a talent that served her well in the course of a venturesome life as reflected in the titles of her books: "Baghdad Sketches" (1933 and 1937), "The Valleys of the Assassins and Other Persian Travels" (1934, 1972 and 1978), "The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey in the Hadhramaut" (1936 and 1972), "A Winter in Arabia" (1940, 1972 and 1987), "Letters From Syria" (1942), "The Freya Stark Story" (1953), "Alexander's Path" (1958 and 1988) and "Gateways and Caravans: A Portrait of Turkey" (1971).
        Freya Madeline Stark was born in Paris on Jan. 31, 1893, to Robert Stark, a British sculptor, and Flora Stark, a painter and pianist. Her parents separated in her childhood, and her formal education was mainly at the University of London and the nearby School of Oriental and African Studies.
        In World War I she was a nurse in Italy, and in World War II she worked for the British Information Ministry, earning prominence and honors for enhancing British influence and countering Axis propaganda in Aden, Yemen, Egypt, Iraq and India. In Cairo, she founded the Brotherhood of Freedom, a democratic anti-Fascist movement.
        Years later, she observed that Britain eventually lost India and prestige throughout the Middle East because of "a lack of clearness and faith in our own values." Honors and Godchildren
        She was awarded a Cross of the British Empire in 1953 and was named a Dame of the British Empire in 1972.
        In 1947, when she was 54, she married Stewart Perowne, a diplomat and historian. They separated in 1952 but did not divorce. Mr. Perowne died in 1989. They had no children, but Dame Freya had many godchildren, in many countries.
        One godson, Malise Ruthven, wrote a 144-page tribute, "Traveler Through Time: A Photographic Journey With Freya Stark," which was published in 1986. In the book, he observed: "Freya never lost her passion for acquiring fresh knowledge and new skills. Writing, like travel, she saw as the pursuit of truth."
        At 93, as she was planning a trip to Spain, Dame Freya was asked about death. She replied, "I feel about it as about the first ball, or the first meet of hounds, anxious as to whether one will get it right, and timid and inexperienced -- all the feelings of youth."
      