
        Penelope Gilliatt, a writer of fiction, journalism and screenplays, and a longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died on Sunday at her home in London. She was 61.
        She had been in poor health for some time.
        Ms. Gilliatt (pronounced with a hard G) was best known for the film criticism she wrote from 1968 to 1979 for The New Yorker, where she shared reviewing duties with Pauline Kael, and for her screenplay for "Sunday, Bloody Sunday," a 1971 film starring Glenda Jackson and Peter Finch.
        Her short stories were marked by precision, compression and a gift for conveying a dramatic situation through dialogue. Anthony Burgess, reviewing her short-story collection "Nobody's Business" for The New York Times Book Review in 1971, wrote: "She is intelligent, economical, poignant, highly contemporary. She is also innovative."
        Ms. Gilliatt, whose maiden name was Penelope Conner, was born in London. Her father, a barrister and later a judge, worked as a director of the BBC. After attending Queen's College, a private school, she came to the United States to enter Bennington College in Vermont on a scholarship. She dropped out during her first year. "I thought I should get on with life, and I'd run out of money," she later said in a newspaper interview. A Contest Winner
        A brief period working for the Institute of Pacific Relations in New York ended when she won a short-story contest sponsored by British Vogue. She returned to London to join the magazine's staff, eventually becoming its features editor. She also contributed freelance articles to The Spectator and New Statesman.
        From 1961 to 1967, Ms. Gilliatt served as film critic and, for one year, drama critic of The Observer in London. In 1968 she joined The New Yorker, where, in addition to reviewing film, she contributed many short stories and profiles.
        Her first novel, "One by One" (1965), about a menage a trois, contained the seeds of her screenplay for "Sunday, Bloody Sunday," about a London couple, a man and a woman, in love with the same man. The screenplay, which was widely praised for its sensitive, literate treatment of a potentially exploitative subject, was nominated for an Academy Award.  The National Society of Film Critics named it the best screenplay of the year, and the New York film critics, in a tie vote, named her co-winner for best screenplay with Larry McMurtry, for "The Last Picture Show.
        Ms. Gilliatt left The New Yorker in 1979 on an extended leave of absence after writing a profile on the novelist Graham Greene whose accuracy was challenged by Greene. A novelist, Michael Mewshaw, also complained to the magazine that material in the article had been taken, without credit, from an artcile he had written on Greene for The Nation. At the time, Ms. Gilliatt said that Mr. Greene's charges were a subtle form of practical joke. She continued to contribute short stories to the magazine and in recent years wrote profiles of John Cleese and Jonathan Miller. Known for Her Stories
        Although Ms. Gilliatt wrote five novels, including "A State of Change" (1968) and "The Cutting Edge" (1979), she was best known for her stories, collected in "Come Back if It Doesn't Get Better" (1969), "Nobody's Business" (1972), "Splendid Lives" (1978), "Quotations From Other Lives" (1982) and "They Sleep Without Dreaming" (1985).
        Ms. Gilliatt's New Yorker film criticism and profiles were collected in "Unholy Fools" (1973) and "Three-Quarter Face" (1980). Her last book was "To Wit: Skin and Bones of Comedy" (1990), a collection of essays.
        Both her marriages, to Roger Gilliatt, a neurosurgeon, and the playwright John Osborne ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a sister, Angela Conner of London, and a daughter, Nolan Osborne Parker of East Sussex.
      