
        Eleanor Hibbert, a prolific and popular novelist whose books, written under the pen names Jean Plaidy, Victoria Holt and Philippa Carr, sold more than 100 million copies, died on Monday aboard a Mediterranean cruise ship. She was believed to be in her 80's.
        She died on the Sea Princess between Athens and Port Said, Egypt, while on her annual winter trip, said Julie Fallowfield, her agent in the United States. The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Mrs. Hibbert, a Londoner, was secretive about her life. She never revealed her maiden name or age. Two of her publishers listed conflicting birth years, 1906 and 1910.
        For years the true identity of the writer behind the three pseudonyms was a tightly guarded secret in the publishing world.
        In all, Mrs. Hibbert wrote about 200 novels. They were romantic tales, often filled with rich historical detail, that regularly featured young women living in castles and country manors. She said she focused on "women of integrity and strong character" who were "struggling for liberation, fighting for their own survival."
        Her books, which were translated into 20 languages, were especially popular in her native England, the United States and Australia. Although some critics dismissed her books, others found them well-done works of their type.
        Her first published novel was "Beyond the Blue Mountains" (1947), under the Plaidy name. Eventually she wrote 90 Plaidy books, many of which were historical novels about royalty.
        In 1960 she tried a new name and a new genre. At the suggestion of an agent, Patricia Schartle Myrer, Mrs. Hibbert wrote a romantic suspense novel set in Cornwall and published under the Victoria Holt pen name. The result, "Mistress of Mellyn," was an instant international best seller.
        Thirty more Holt novels followed, establishing Mrs. Hibbert as a pioneer in the romantic suspense or Gothic genre. Her last Holt book, "The Black Opal," is scheduled for publication this year.
        In 1972 she began a third series, writing as Philippa Carr, in which she followed the fortunes of an English family through several generations. The last of the 19 Carr books, "We'll Meet Again," is due next year.
        Early in her career, Mrs. Hibbert also used the pen names Eleanor Burford, Elbur Ford and Ellalice Tate. She wrote short stories for British publications before trying novels.
        Ms. Hibbert's husband, George, a businessman, died in the 1960's. There are no immediate survivors.
      