
        Marjorie Henderson Buell, the creator of Little Lulu, the mischievous cartoon character with corkscrew curls who regularly outwitted the neighborhood boys, died on Sunday in the Elyria (Ohio) United Methodist Home. She was 88.
        The cause was lymphoma, said John D. Harvith, the co-arranger in 1982 of the only comprehensive retrospective of Mrs. Buell's work, in Oberlin, Ohio.
        "She was a pioneer in presenting a girl cartoon character who was resourceful, courageous and who regularly beat out the boys," said Mr. Harvith. Mrs. Buell, who was known as Marge, was also a role model for future cartoon entrepreneurs, since she kept control of the rights to the Little Lulu character. She licensed a host of spinoffs, including comic books, 26 animated cartoon features, greeting cards, dolls, games, puzzles, toys and coloring books.
        The Lulu marketing empire was international, with comic books published in languages that included Arabic, Finnish, Japanese, Spanish and Greek. Mrs. Buell sold her copyrights to Western Publishing Company when she retired in 1971.
        Mrs. Buell was born in Philadelphia on Dec. 11, 1904. Her first cartoon was published in 1921, when she was 16, in The Philadelphia Ledger. Soon her work found a market in the Ledger syndicate, and ultimately in Life, when it was a comic magazine, as well as The Saturday Evening Post, The Country Gentleman, Judge and Collier's.
        In 1934 The Saturday Evening Post asked her to draw a weekly cartoon for the magazine's back page. George Horace Lorimer, the editor, wanted a young female character to take the place of another cartoon that was moving from The Post to King Features Syndicate.
        The first "Little Lulu" drawing appeared in December 1935. So popular had the character become by 1944 that Mrs. Buell took Lulu and her friends Tubby, Alvin, Annie and Wilbur from The Post and made the cartoon a daily syndicated comic strip. Lulu also served as the advertising mascot for Kleenex tissues until 1960.
        Mrs. Buell is survived by her husband, Clarence Addison Buell; two sons, Lawrence I., of Boston, and Frederick H., of Warwick, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      