
        Ethel Hausman, a founder and major supporter of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, L. I., died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
        She and her husband, Jack, joined Leonard and Isabel Goldenson and Jane Hoving in 1946 to found United Cerebral Palsy of New York City. All were parents of children with the disease, including the Hausmans' son Peter, who died last year. Their efforts also led to the formation of the national United Cerebral Palsy Associations, which merged similar groups around the country. Efforts Raised Millions
        Mrs. Hausman founded the Women's Division of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and oversaw fund-raising campaigns that raised millions of dollars for the agency, which serves adults and children with cerebral palsy and related disabilities. She also was vice president of the International Cerebral Palsy Society in London and a board member of Rehabilitation International.
        Mrs. Hausman devoted much of her life to helping others, especially chidren. With her husband, she was a principal donor to North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College, where the Ethel and Jack Hausman Department of Pediatrics attests to their support.
        North Shore University Hospital opened in Manhasset in 1953. But Mrs. Hausman was already engaged in fund raising in the late 1940's, when local residents pressed for the construction of a hospital in the area. She later served as co-chairwoman of the interior design committee.
        Ethel and Jack Hausman endowed chairs bearing their names for a professor of pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital and for cerebral-palsy research at Harvard University.
        Born in Manhattan, Ethel Hausman went to work in a restaurant at age 16. In 1927, she married Jack Hausman, whose family fortune derived from the textile business. He is vice chairman and former chairman of Belding Heminway Company, the Manhattan textile concern.
        Mrs. Hausman served as a volunteer ambulance driver in World War II. She was an original tour guide at United Nations headquarters and a member of the U.N.'s Department of Public Information from 1949-64.
        Besides her husband of nearly 65 years, Mrs. Hausman is survived by two sons, Richard and Michael, both of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      