
        Hannah Troy, an influential women's fashion designer and manufacturer who invented the petite size and introduced modern Italian styles to the United States, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Miami Beach, where she lived. She was 93.
        The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
        Her two major contributions to fashion resulted from chance and keen observation.
        "I was at a May Company store in California when I noticed women pulling at their shoulders and waistlines and saw that most dresses didn't fit properly," she recalled from the late 1940's. Alterations were troublesome and sometimes spoiled the design.
        On a hunch that the long-waisted ideal female form was more myth than reality, she studied measurements the military had made of women who volunteered in World War II. The statistics confirmed that the typical woman was short-waisted.
        So Mrs. Troy introduced the petite size, saying, "The word had a nice ring." The concept proved a popular success. The Italian Look
        Her next innovation came in 1951. After the annual Paris fashion shows, she took a side trip to Florence. Impressed with its fashions, she bought samples and returned home promoting the Italian look.
        The following season, 300 American fashion representatives showed up in Italy and a new era began.
        In the mid-1960's she advocated the tent dress so "the woman who is a little plump can look stylish."
        Mrs. Troy described her fashions as "elegant, somewhat classic, timeless, the kind a woman can add to from year to year." She produced blouses, dresses, gowns and suits, favoring silk, wool, tweed, linen, taffeta and satin.
        Her career was at its peak from the late 1940's until her retirement in 1968. She supplied top Manhattan stores like Saks, Bergdorf Goodman, Bonwit Teller, Henri Bendel, Lord & Taylor, B. Altman and Bloomingdale's. Pat Nixon and Mamie Van Doren were among her customers.
        Mrs. Troy, a Brooklyn native, grew up in the garment industry.
        "I started sewing as soon as I could thread a needle," she said. By 12 she was making dresses for her sisters. As a teen-ager, she was a model. After graduating as the valedictorian at Erasmus Hall High School, she worked at a blouse company, then opened her business.
        She supported charities and made a personal cause of the Mazzini School in Florence after learning that some poor students took turns going to class because their families had only one coat and one pair of shoes to share among the siblings.
        Mrs. Troy had three marriages, to Aaron Hartman, Theodore Troy and Max Meyer, all deceased.
        She is survived by a son from her first marriage, William J. Troy, and a sister, Shirley Stern, both of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      