
        Patricia Brooks Mann, a lyric soprano who helped fashion the modern standard for opera performers, died on Friday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 59.
        She died of complications of multiple sclerosis, said her husband, Theodore D. Mann, the artistic director and co-founder of Circle in the Square Theater.
        In an era when audiences and critics began demanding that opera performers display dramatic as well as musical talent, Ms. Brooks, who performed under her maiden name, arrived with a non-operatic training that fit the bill.
        Her distinctive style drew on her earlier career in the theater and dance. Her opera performances won praise for her beauty, acting ability and graceful movements, as well as for her voice. Some classified her as a singing actress rather than an opera singer.
        "The public was clamoring that opera performers had to look and act the part, not just sing it, and she was the new wave," said Beverly Sills, her famed contemporary at the New York City Opera. Command Performance
        Ms. Brooks starred in numerous City Opera productions in the 1960's and 1970's, when she was in her 30's and 40's. She also sang with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra and was a soloist at Carnegie and Alice Tully Halls, Covent Gardens in London and in concerts across the United States. She gave a White House command performance for President John F. Kennedy.
        In an early review, Raymond Ericson of The New York Times wrote that as Gilda in "Rigoletto" in 1963, "Miss Brooks was attractive to both eye and ear, a musicianly artist and an intelligent actress." When she co-starred with Placido Domingo in "La Traviata" in 1966, Harold C. Schonberg's review praised her for "acting with a delicacy of detail rare in opera."
        Her performances proved popular with audiences. An account of her appearance in "La Boheme" in 1961 said she "very nearly stopped the show." A review of "Tales of Hoffmann" in 1966 said she "brought down the house." And a report of her singing of Bellini with Marilyn Horne in 1971 said listeners were driven "into a frenzy." Studied Dance
        Ms. Brooks was born in Manhattan. As a youngster she took lessons in music, ballet and acting and at the age of 10 won a WQXR-radio piano competition. She attended the High School of Music and Art and at 14 began studying dance with Martha Graham.
        But a knee injury from a fall turned her from dance to theater. She auditioned for Mr. Mann, who was smitten and confided to his partner, Jose Quintero, that he intended to marry the aspiring actress.
        Mr. Quintero cast her in Truman Capote's "The Grass Harp" and in "The Iceman Cometh," with Jason Robards and Peter Falk, and she studied acting under Uta Hagen.
        Ms. Brooks began folk singing and appearing in musicals, encouraged by her mother, Eda, a voice coach. While singing in the chorus of nuns in "The Sound of Music" in 1960, Ms. Brooks decided to leave that Broadway hit and switch to opera.
        Maturing rapidly in her new medium, she won an enviable array of praise. Critics hailed her performances as charming, bewitching and dazzling. Her voice was described as sweet, velvety, free-floating, delicate, warm and rich. Her acting was called nuanced, subtle, sensitive, elegant, expressive and exciting.
        Although it was undisclosed, eventually multiple sclerosis limited her breathing, so she retired from performing in 1977. But she began teaching voice and directing productions at the State University of New York at Purchase and gave private lessons for several years.
        When illness forced an end to her teaching, she turned her creative energies to oil and water-color painting.
        Besides her husband and mother, Ms. Brooks is survived by two sons, Jonathan and Andrew, both of Manhattan and Mount Kisco; a stepbrother, Alan Brooks, and a sister, Joan Brooks Palermo, both of Manhattan.
        A memorial service will be held at noon on Feb. 1 at Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway at 50th Street.
      