
        Arleen Auger, an American soprano who was renowned for both her commanding presence on the opera stage and the subtlety of her song interpretations, died on Thursday at the home of a friend in Leusden, a suberb of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. She was 53 and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y.
        Mary Lou Falcone, Miss Auger's publicity agent, said the cause was brain cancer.
        Miss Auger's most famous performance was her appearance at the wedding of Prince Andrew and Sarah Ferguson, the Duke and Duchess of York, on July 23, 1986. She sang Mozart's "Exsultate, Jubilate" as part of the ceremony at Westminster Abbey, which was televised globally and seen by some 500 million people.  Debut in Vienna
        Mozart was always at the core of her repertory. Miss Auger (pronounced awe-ZHAY) had exactly the right flexibility, coloring and vocal weight for Mozart opera roles and concert works, and they were the vehicles with which she had her biggest successes. She made her operatic debut as the Queen of the Night in a 1967 Vienna State Opera production of "Die Zauberflote." Nine years later she made her New York debut in the same role at the New York City Opera. Among her recent recordings are highly praised portrayals of Donna Anna in "Don Giovanni" and the Countess in "Le Nozze di Figaro."
        She also won great acclaim for her performances of Bach, Handel and Haydn, and although she did not eschew the use of vibrato, as other early-music singers did, she was considered a supremely stylish interpreter of that repertory. Still, she resolutely resisted being typecast. She constantly expanded her repertory, and applied her rich tone and her thoughtful sense of line to everything from Schubert and Schumann lieder and turn-of-the-century French art songs to works by Weill, Berg and Schoenberg. Libby Larsen and Judith Zaimont were among the composers from whom she commissioned new song cycles.
        "I sing Bach, Mozart, contemporary music and everything in between," she wrote in an article for Keynote in 1985. "If it's for my voice and my voice can do it well, I'm happy to do it."
        But Miss Auger was a late bloomer, musically: she did not begin studying voice until she was out of college and working as an elementary-school teacher in Chicago. And when she auditioned for the Vienna State Opera, she knew only one role, the Queen of the Night.  Taught Elementary Schoolers
        Arleen Auger was born in South Gate, Calif., on Sept. 13, 1939. She studied the piano and violin briefly as a child and sang in community choirs, but she later told interviewers that she had had very little exposure to classical music when she was growing up. She attended California State University at Long Beach, where she earned a degree in education in 1963. For the next four years, she taught elementary school in Chicago, Denver and Los Angeles.
        The world of opera and art song opened for her in 1965, when she was teaching in Chicago and began studying voice with Ralph Errolle. She apparently progressed quickly; two years later, when she was teaching first grade in Los Angeles, she won first prize in the I. Victor Fuchs Competition. The prize included a trip to Vienna to audition for the Volksoper. Her audition repertory included three pieces: the two Queen of the Night arias and Olympia's aria from Offenbach's "Tales of Hoffmann."
        As it turned out, the soprano Lucia Popp had just withdrawn from a production of "Zauberflote" at the Vienna State Opera. That company's director, Josef Krips, heard Miss Auger's audition at the smaller Volksoper, and offered her a contract. When she joined the company, she later said, she knew only the one role, had no stage experience and did not speak German. She made her debut without a rehearsal, and had to ask other singers where to go as she was pushed out on stage.  Sought Expanded Repertory
        But she prospered in Vienna. During her first two years she added a dozen roles to her repertory, and she remained with the company until 1974, when she began to find the State Opera's repertory expectations too constricting. When she left the company she began singing more frequently at other European houses, including La Scala. She also expanded her recital repertory and took a teaching position at the Academy of Music and Drama in Frankfurt, where she taught until 1987.
        She had by then become intent on regulating the pace of her career. She refused to sing roles if she did not consider herself ready for them, sometimes alienating conductors whose invitations she declined. But she said later that those decisions saved her voice and prolonged her career.
        By the early 1980's, Miss Auger's European career was thriving, though her concert and opera appearances in the United States had been relatively few. She had cemented her reputation as an early-music singer at the Oregon Bach Festival, directed by Helmuth Rilling (with whom she recorded more than 50 Bach cantatas) and at the New England Bach Festival. But at the time, American listeners knew her mostly through what was already a vast discography.
        Miss Auger began to cultivate an American following seriously in January 1984, when she sang Mozart, Schubert, Debussy and Strauss songs at her New York debut recital at Alice Tully Hall. Reviewing that concert in The New York Times, Donal Henahan praised the clarity of her tone and her sensitivity to musical and textual nuances. "Although pure lyricism is obviously Miss Auger's strong point, there is more to her than that," he wrote, adding that she "is a singing actress of some depth." Explored the Nuances
        Thereafter, Miss Auger performed more frequently in the United States, and her recitals were high points of the concert season for fans of art song. Statuesque and attractive, she was a compelling and elegant stage personality who invariably gave the impression of having thoroughly explored both the overt emotional resonance and the underlying psychological nuances of the songs on her programs. She continued performing until last season, when her illness forced her to cancel touring plans and recording projects.
        Miss Auger made nearly 200 recordings, documenting a vast repertory that ranged from her Bach, Mozart and Handel specialties to a series of both standard and offbeat opera and song projects. Many of her recordings won international awards, including the Grand Prix du Disque, the Edison Prize and the Deutscher Schallplattenpreis.
        She is survived by her parents, Everett and Doris Auger, and a brother, Ralph Auger of Healdsburg, Calif. SELECTED RECORDINGS
        Arleen Auger's recordings document her talents as opera singer, recitalist and soloist in oratorios and symphonic choral works. These are some of her recordings, all on compact disk.
        Brahms: A German Requiem (Telarc)
        Canteloube: Songs of the Auvergne (Virgin)
        Handel: "Orlando" (L'Oiseau-Lyre); "Messiah" (Archiv)
        Handel and Bach Arias (Delos)
        Mendelssohn: A Midsummer Night's Dream (Philips)
        Monteverdi: "L'Incoronazione di Poppea" (Virgin)
        Mozart: "Le Nozze di Figaro" (L'Oiseau-Lyre); "Lucio Silla" (Philips)
        Mozart/Strauss/Wolf: Lieder (Sony Classical)
        Strauss: Four Last Songs (Telarc)
        Wolf: Lieder (Hyperion)
        "Love Songs": works by Copland, Britten, Strauss, Schumann, Gounod, Mahler, Foster, others (Delos)
      