
        Dr. Gladys Lounsbury Hobby, a microbiologist who helped to move penicillin from a laboratory discovery to mass production during World War II, died on Sunday at her home at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, Pfizer Inc. said. She had worked at Pfizer's Brooklyn plant.
        In her book, "Penicillin: Meeting the Challenge" (Yale University Press, 1985), Dr. Hobby chronicled penicillin's precarious journey from laboratory to factory, beginning with Sir Alexander Fleming's intriguing find of 1928. Discussing the program to make the drug available in large quantities in the face of wartime needs in the early 1940's, she likened its urgency and scope to the Manhattan Project, which produced the atom bomb.
        She had first helped to refine penicillin specifically for the treatment of infections as a member of a research team at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. Then, in 15 years at Pfizer, she also worked to develop streptomycin and other antibiotics.
        A specialist in antimicrobial therapy, she was among those who did the early work on the broad-spectrum Terramycin and contributed to the understanding of how such drugs work.
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Hobby graduated from Vassar College in 1931 and earned her master's degree and a Ph.D. in bacteriology at Columbia. She was associated with Presbyterian Hospital and the Columbia Medical School from 1934 to 1943, after which she joined Chas Pfizer & Company to continue her research.
        She left Pfizer in 1959 to become chief of research at the Veterans Administration Hospital in East Orange, N.J., where she specialized in chronic infectious diseases. Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
        She then worked as a consultant and freelance science writer. She was the author of some 200 publications and for eight years edited Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, a monthly she founded in 1972.
        Dr. Hobby is survived by a sister, Winifred Evans, also of Kennett Square.
      