
        Margaret Van Doren Bevans, author, editor and illustrator of children's books, died on Wednesday at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, Conn. She was 75 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn.
        Her sister, Barbara Klaw, said the cause was lung cancer.
        Mrs. Bevans's most widely distributed work is her illustrations for the original "Pat the Bunny," (Golden Books, 1940), created by Dorothy Kunhardt, the second-best-selling children's book ever, after "Peter Rabbit."
        She is author and illustrator of "Thomas Retires," (Viking, 1939) a children's book. Other works include " 'I Wonder Why,' Thought the Owl," (Putnam, 1965) and "Danny Kaye's Around the World Story Book," (Random House, 1960), of which she was co-editor.
        She was editor of a best-selling book for adults, "Vogue's Book of Etiquette," (Simon & Schuster, 1948), compiled by the late Millicent H. Fenwick. She also edited "McCall's Book of Everyday Etiquette" (Golden Press, 1960).
        Born in New York City, she was the daughter of the historian and critic Carl Van Doren and of Irita Van Doren, for many years literary editor of The New York Herald Tribune. She studied art at Cooper Union in Manhattan.
        In 1975 Mrs. Bevans and her family moved to West Cornwall, where she served on the Cornwall Board of Education from 1977 to 1983. She was also Cornwall's representative on the board of Housatonic Valley Regional High School.
        She and her husband, Tom Torre Bevans, founded The Cornwall Chronicle in 1991. This monthly newspaper of community news is distributed free to all Cornwall residents and many out-of-town subscribers.
        Besides her husband and sister of West Cornwall, surviving are two daughters, Anne Bevans of West Cornwall and Jane Duber of Lillooet, British Columbia; a son, John, of West Cornwall, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  July 25, 1993, Sunday
        An obituary last Sunday about Margaret Van Doren Bevans, author and illustrator of children's books, included a work among her credits erroneously. "Pat the Bunny" (Golden Books, 1940) was illustrated by its author, Dorothy Kunhardt.
      