
        Dr. Blanche Bernstein, a prominent welfare expert and former government official whose criticisms of the welfare system provoked stormy policy debates, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of lung cancer, said Barbara Rulnick, a niece.
        Dr. Bernstein argued that the welfare system's major failing is in fostering continued dependency for people receiving aid, instead of guiding them off the welfare rolls to independence.
        "Reduction of dependency is the greatest unmet need in social policy today," she once said. "We have not gotten to the heart of the problem."
        Her pronouncements often stirred opposition from other officials, experts and advocates. Some accused her of being unsympathetic to poor people and minorities, which she denied.
        Supporters said her aim was to help the truly needy while paring cheaters and ineligible recipients from welfare and reducing erroneous overpayments. High-Ranking Welfare Posts
        In 1978-79 she headed the nation's largest local welfare agency when she served as the city's Human Resources Administrator, with more than a million residents receiving aid. Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed and praised her as "terrific."
        But during her term more than 100,000 people were pared from the welfare rolls. After she came under fire from a number of black officials, Mr. Koch named a deputy with superseding power over her, and she resigned. The Mayor's action was widely interpreted as a concession to soothe his frayed minority relations.
        Dr. Bernstein also served as the State Social Services Department's deputy commissioner for income maintenance from 1975-77, under Gov. Hugh L. Carey. She was in charge of public assistance, food stamps and welfare job programs.
        Later she recounted her battles and explained her policies in "The Politics of Welfare: The New York City Experience" (Abt, 1982), which Fortune magazine called "wonderfully instructive."
        An economist, Dr. Bernstein earlier held policy posts in the State Department, worked for charities, was an educator and researched a wide array of social problems.
        Among the issues she studied were foster care, the effect of welfare on family stability, obstacles to drug treatment for addicts, impoverished Jews, day care, obstacles to employment for welfare recipients, mental health care, welfare spending, family budgets and prenatal care. Director at New School
        Dr. Bernstein focused increasingly on the growing and entwined problems of teen-age mothers, single-parent families, poor education, school dropout and unemployment. Unless society "breaks the cycle of dependency and poverty," she said, "we are in danger of creating a permanent underclass."
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research. The institute studied welfare, housing, health care, child neglect and abuse and services for the aged.
        After retiring from the New School, she remained in education as a trustee of the City University of New York.
        Dr. Bernstein was born in New York City. She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree and a doctorate in economics at Columbia.
        Her survivors include a brother, Hilliard, of Manhattan.
      