
        Mary Ellen Forbes Kramer, who led the campaign to preserve and redevelop the historic mill district in Paterson, N.J., died on Monday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. She was 56 and lived in Little Falls, N.J., and Weston, Conn.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Kramer became active in civic affairs as the wife of Paterson's Mayor for 14 years, Lawrence (Pat) Kramer. In her first major issue, she led the efforts that blocked state plans to build a highway that would have destroyed some old silk mills.
        After that success, she became the executive director of the Great Falls Development Corporation and worked to preserve the mills, which were built in the early 1800's and used the water power of the 77-foot-high Great Falls. The buildings were adapted to new uses, including the Paterson Museum, offices and artists' residences.
        In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford visited the district to proclaim its national landmark status, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation gave Mrs. Kramer an award. New Career at College
        She started a new career in 1980 as the director of community affairs at William Paterson College in Wayne, N.J.
        There she was instrumental in founding the Wayne Chamber Orchestra, creating the annual Legacy Awards to raise scholarship funds, collecting more than $300,000 to restore the Hobart Manor on campus and organizing a popular annual lecture series with speakers like Henry Kissinger, Norman Mailer, Alvin Toffler and Beverly Sills.
        She also served on the boards of St. Joseph's Hospital and the Straight and Narrow drug and alcohol rehabilitation center, both in New Jersey.
        Mrs. Kramer was born in Paterson. After graduating from Mary Washington College she earned a master's degree in clinical psychology from George Washington University and briefly practiced as a school psychologist. She was divorced.
        Surviving are her companion, Irving Appleman; her mother, Catherine Forbes of Wyckoff, N.J.; a daughter, Patricia Kimberly Sposa of Vernon, N.J.; two sons, Lawrence 3d, also known as Kip, and Patrick, also known as Kelly, both of Paterson; three brothers, Cyril Forbes of Montclair, N.J., William Forbes of Paterson and Paul Forbes of Morristown, N.J., and two sisters, Joan Forbes of Wyckoff and Nancy Braithwaite of Nassau, the Bahamas.
      