
        Rita Ford, a dealer in antique and current music boxes with a wide array of musical sounds that enchanted visitors to her Manhattan shop for more than four decades, died on Thursday at New York Hospital. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        Her physician, Dr. Thomas Fabry, said the cause was complications of fluid in the lungs.
        Under her guidance, Rita Ford Music Boxes at 19 East 65th Street, has become a New York institution and a veritable museum of melodious boxes. Mrs. Ford used to say her shop was one of a kind because it was the only shop that sold old and new music boxes, made music boxes to order and also restored them.
        Among her customers were Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller, the late Richard Rodgers, Beverly Sills and many other personalities in the entertainment and music world. A foreign client was the King of Saudi Arabia, who had made 20 matching music boxes playing the Saudi national anthem.
        At her shop, Mrs. Ford would give personal tours of her treasure boxes, which ranged from 18th-century French mechanical figures that tinkled and trilled to modern Japanese boxes shaped like grand pianos playing the "Chariots of Fire" theme. The star of her collection was a Swiss-made mahogany box, circa 1887, which once belonged to Alec Templeton, with eight cylinders each playing six melodies including Strauss's "Blue Danube" waltz, "Comin' Thru the Rye" and "La Marseillaise," priced at $75,000. Born in Northeastern Italy
        Retiring in 1990, she sold the music box shop to her assistant in restoration, Gerald Wright, who has preserved the name and character of the establishment.
        Born in Fano, in northeastern Italy, she immigrated to the United States with her family when she was 6. The family changed its name from Romagna to Romania and settled on Fishers Island, N.Y.
        At 19, she became a registered nurse and started out as a social worker in Hartford. During World War II, she married Albert Ford, an entrepreneur in New York City, and learned about antiques by visiting galleries.
        Surviving is a niece, Nancy Young of Starr, S.C.
      