
        Caroline Klein Simon, who overcame early obstacles to women in the legal profession to become a pioneering female judge, politician, state official and champion of laws against discrimination in jobs and housing, died yesterday at home. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
        Judge Simon, who was still active as a lawyer at her death, served in state posts under appointments from both Republican and Democratic governors and was the first woman nominated by a major party for citywide office in New York City.
        She helped draft the nation's first state law barring job discrimination and later led the nation in imposing regulations against racial "block busting" by real-estate brokers.
        Judge Simon's credo was simple. "I am against discrimination in any form," she said.
        During her own career, she faced discrimination from the very beginning.
        She was rejected for admission to Columbia University's law school in the 1920's because it did not have toilets and other accommodations for female students, her family said. So she earned her law degree at New York University instead. Failed Search for Paying Job
        After graduation, despite her strong academic record and passing the bar examination, she was turned down by every firm where she applied to become a law clerk. She finally offered to work free for a year "to convince them that a woman could be a lawyer," she later recalled.
        Greenbaum, Wolff & Ernst took her up and after the year was up she was offered a permanent job. But she decided instead to work for indigent clients and family planning groups.
        Three decades later, she was a leading candidate to become the Postmaster of New York in 1958 but was vetoed by Federal officials. The New York Times reported, based on officials close to the Postmaster General, "Opposition to the appointment of Mrs. Caroline K. Simon was based on the ground that the job was unsuited to a woman."
        In a widely quoted speech the next year, she said: "There are four things a woman needs to know. She needs to know how to look like a girl, act like a lady, think like a man and work like a dog." Worked Under Dewey
        Her public service began in the 1930's when she was instrumental in changing state laws to entitle women to serve as jurors and was herself among the first called for service.
        District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey of Manhattan named her to a panel on revising the Domestic Relations Court Act. During World War II she served as the Office of Civilian Defense's director of group activities in New York, New Jersey and Delaware.
        Mr. Dewey, by then Governor, appointed her to the New York State Workers' Compensation Board in 1944-45 and the temporary State War Council's Committee on Discrimination in Employment in 1943-45.
        Eager to continue the fight against discrimination, she helped draft the nation's first state law on job bias based on race, religion or nationality and became a founding member of the resulting State Commission Against Discrimination. City Council Race
        In 1956, Gov. W. Averell Harriman, a Democrat, appointed her to the new State Youth Commission.
        The next year she ran for City Council President as a Republican. Although she lost to Abe Stark by about two-to-one, she still ran some 100,000 votes ahead of her ticket and received the biggest total for a citywide Republican candidate.
        In 1958 she served as the legal advisor to the American delegation to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
        In 1959 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, a Republican, inducted her as New York's Secretary of State, the second woman to hold that post. It was in that role that she issued the nation's first regulations against block busting, in which brokers manipulated property owners' fears about racial or ethnic changes in the neighborhood to provoke sales.
        It was her marriage to Leopold K. Simon, a lawyer, that ignited her interest in the law.
        They divorced in the early 1950's. She remarried, to Irving W. Halpern, the chief probation officer of the Court of General Sessions, who died in 1966.
        Her survivors include her son, Lee K., of Wilmington, N.C.; a daughter, Cathy Prince of White Plains; a brother, Nathan F. Klein of Titusville, Fla.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        A service will be held at 11 A.M. Sunday at Temple Emanu-El on Fifth Avenue at 65th Street in Manhattan.
      