
        Doris Jonas Freed, a national authority on family law who headed the American Bar Association's committee on divorce law and procedures, died on July 23 at Keswick Nursing Home in Baltimore. She was 90 and had lived in Manhattan until May.
        Her daughter, Gloria Kane, said the cause was heart failure.
        Dr. Freed was an expert and practitioner in matrimonial law who wrote extensively on different aspects of family law. She was co-author of the six-volume revision of "Law and the Family, New York" (Lawyers Cooperative Publishing Corporation, Rochester, 1986-90) with the late Henry H. Foster and Joel R. Brandes, and co-author of the original treatise with Mr. Foster in 1966.  Wrote Monthly Column
        As head of the American Bar Association's committee on research, she was influential in drafting the 1980 reform of the New York State divorce law, which was based on the premise that marriage is an economic "partnership of co-equals."
        Until her death, Dr. Freed co-authored with Mr. Brandes and Carole L. Weidman "Law and the Family," a monthly column in The New York Law Journal. Recent studies include: "Electronic Surveillance of Family Conversations," (January 1993) "Surrogate Parenting Contracts," (February 1993), and "Transfers of Pension Benefits," (June 1993)
        Tracking family-law cases and legal trends for the American Bar Association, Dr. Freed was co-author of the annual study "Family Law in the 50 States," initially with Mr. Foster and subsequently with Prof. Timothy Walker. This study appears in The Family Law Quarterly and reviews developments in family law like no-fault divorce, fair distribution of property, homemaker's contribution, rights to retirement benefits, spousal support and child-support enforcement.
        Dr. Freed was born in a suburb of St. Louis. She earned her law degrees from New York University School of Law, receiving her doctorate in 1958. Already active professionally, she was named first vice president of the Women's Lawyers Assocation in 1956.
        Her practice was based in New York City, where in recent years she was of counsel to the firm of Brandes, Weidman & Spatz. Before that she was counsel to Winer, Neuburger & Sive, and earlier was counsel to the Harvey Sladkus firm.
        Dr. Freed received the exceptional merit award from the Family Law Section of the American Bar Association every year from 1980 to 1989. Besides her work for the national association, she chaired the custody committee and the surrogate parenting committee of the New York State Bar Association's Family Law Section.
        Her husband, Arthur Freed, died in 1990.
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Dallas, she is survived by a granddaughter.
      