
        Madeleine Marshall Simon, a singing coach and concert pianist who taught English diction at the Juilliard School of Music for over half a century, died on Sunday at St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a heart attack, said her grandson, J. Kirby Simon.
        Mrs. Simon, whose professional name was Madeleine Marshall, was author of "The Singer's Manual of English Diction," which has been a standard guide on the subject since 1953.
        Reviewing her book in The New York Times, Howard Taubman wrote: "What all the advice aims at is the eternal one of learning to make technique the servant of art. As Miss Marshall sums it up, articulation should be 'so persuasive that no one will be conscious of method.' " On the Juilliard Faculty
        She joined Juilliard in 1935 as an instructor in English diction and retired in 1986, after providing generations of singers with the tools of being understood, while performing in English. She also trained many teachers of English diction at schools and colleges.
        Over the years, she was coach and accompanist for many artists, including Lily Pons, Helen Traubel, Leontyne Price, Lawrence Tibbet and Lauritz Melchior.
        Mrs. Simon was on the staff of the School of Sacred Music of Union Theological Seminary for 20 years. She also worked on special assignments for the Metropolitan Opera and the Robert Shaw choral organization.
        Born in Syracuse, she was a graduate of Syracuse University. She began her career as a concert pianist and performed as soloist with the New York Philharmonic under Arturo Toscanini and other conductors.
        She was married to Robert A. Simon, a music critic for The New Yorker, who died in 1981.
        In addition to her grandson, she is survived by a son, John G. Simon of New Haven; a daughter, Peggy Traktman, and a sister, Helen Marshall Borchard, both of New York City, and another grandchild.
      