
        Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, a lifelong advocate of civil and human rights, died on Wednesday at her home on Mount Desert Island in Northeast Harbor, Me. She was 91.
        Her daughter, Charlton Yarnall Phelps, said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        Mrs. Jacobs was former president of the Urban League of Greater New York and the National Council of Women. She was active in the Urban League movement for more than 20 years and served as vice president and trustee of the National Urban League.
        As head of the league's chapter for Greater New York from 1955 to 1960, she fought school segregation, pressed for more public housing on vacant land sites and led action for legislation barring racial discrimination in private housing.  Headed Women's Council
        In 1959, Mrs. Jacobs took part in the first "woman-to-woman" exchange between the United States and the Soviet Union. She became president of the National Council of Women in 1960 and was chairwoman of the 75th anniversary of the International Council of Women and the national affiliate, in Washington in 1963.
        Born in Haverford, Pa., she attended Bryn Mawr College for two years. In 1921, she married Reginald Robert Jacobs, a Philadelphia banker. The marriage ended in divorce in 1937.
        While in Philadelphia, she wrote many articles of interest to women, published in Good Housekeeping, Country Life, Harper's Bazaar, Parents, Reader's Digest and other magazines. From 1937 to 1945, she served as executive secretary of the Philadelphia Orchestra Club and then became promotion manager of the Philadelphia Orchestra. Wrote Historical Novel
        In 1945, she went to San Francisco as an observer at the birth of the United Nations.
        Mrs. Jacobs moved to New York in 1954, where she was an officer of numerous civic and educational organizations. She was active in the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Committee on Africa, Howard University, Planned Parenthood-World Population and the Rachel Carson Trust for the Living Environment.
        She was the author of a historical novel, "The Clark Inheritance," based on her family's history in the develpment of the coal mines of Pennsylvania. She is remembered by many as Sophy, the group leader, in her friend Emily Kimbrough's book, "Pleasure by the Busload."
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Denholm Muir Jacobs of Northeast Harbor; 6 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      