
        Jeanne Sauve, a former Speaker of Parliament and Governor General of Canada in the 1980's, died on Tuesday in Montreal. She was 70.
        Her death was announced by the office of the Governor General, who represents Queen Elizabeth II. It did not give the cause of death.
        A former television journalist and freelance columnist, Mrs. Sauve entered politics in 1972 by winning election as a Member of Parliament from a district outside Montreal now known as Laval-les-Rapides.
        After two years as a back-bencher, she was named as a junior minister in the Government of Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, overseeing science and technology and eventually the environment and communications. A Difficult Passage
        But it was as Speaker, the keeper of the rules and traditions in the lower house, that Mrs. Sauve broke barriers and gained a national reputation.
        When she was named to the post in 1980, she was still best known as part of a political elite that had congregated in Montreal in the 1950's to discuss art and politics and nationalism.
        One participant was Mr. Trudeau, then a law professor and editor; another was Rene Levesque, a radio commentator who would later became a secessionist and Premier of Quebec, and a major adversary of Mr. Trudeau.
        Her appointment drew criticism. Not only was she the first woman to preside over a forum that is still overwhelmingly male, but she was viewed by the Conservative opposition as lacking established ties to the House and knowledge of its often baroque procedures.
        In her first two years, Mrs. Sauve was severely tested by strategists from the opposition who barraged her with points of order and privilege. But eventually even her adversaries paid tribute to her firmness and fairness, and she remained Speaker until 1984. Finally Won Respect
        When Mr. Trudeau named her to the largely ceremonial but highly respected position of Governor General, she was also the first woman in that post, where she served until 1990.
        Mrs. Sauve was born Jeanne Benoit in Prud'homme, Saskatchewan, on April 26, 1922. She was educated at the University of Ottawa and University of Paris.
        In 1948 she married Maurice Sauve, a businessman who also served as a minister to Mr. Trudeau; he died last year. She is survived by a son, Jean-Francois.
        Correction:  January 29, 1993, Friday
        An obituary headline yesterday about a former Speaker of Parliament and Governor General of Canada misidentified her. She was Jeanne Sauve.
      