
        Elizabeth M. Ramsey, whose discovery of a two-week-old embryo during an autopsy began her career as an authority on human embryology, died Friday at a hospital in Washington. She was 87 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was a stroke, said the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Dr.  Ramsey worked for 36 years for Carnegie's embryology department on the Johns Hopkins University campus in Baltimore.
        Dr. James Ebert, vice president of the National Academy of Science, called Dr. Ramsey "the world's leading student of the anatomy of the placenta."
        She won the distinguished service award of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and was named to its hall of fame. In 1987 the Society for Gynecologic Investigation named her its distinguished scientist of the year. She was also a past vice president of the American Association of Anatomists. The Yale Embryo
        While conducting a routine autopsy as a pathologist at Yale Medical School in the 1930's, she and her colleagues discovered a 14-day-old embryo. It was believed to be the youngest human embryo studied and came to be known as the Yale Embryo.
        "It was the most interesting professional thing in my life," she once recalled.
        The discovery led her to publish research on the anatomy of human embryos. Then she began studying monkeys to understand the circulatory system of their embryos and placentas. Later, working with Martin Donner of the radiology department at Johns Hopkins, she used radioactive dyes and X-rays to disclose that the human embryo and placenta have a similar circulation system.
        She wrote more than 125 scientific articles and two books, "The Placenta of Laboratory Animals and Man" (1975) and, with Mr. Donner, "Placental Vasculature and Circulation" (1982).
        Dr. Ramsey taught and lectured at Johns Hopkins and Georgetown and George Washington Universities and served on the Dean's Council of Yale Medical School. She retired about 20 years ago.
        She also served on the boards of the National Symphony Orchestra and the National Cathedral Choral Society.
        Born in New York City, Dr. Ramsey grew up in California and graduated from Mills College in 1928. She studied in Hamburg, Germany, then at Yale Medical School, where she graduated in 1932 as one of two women in her class.
        For 59 years she was married to Hans Klagsbrunn, a lawyer, who died on June 23. Together they ran a dairy and pig farm in Loudoun County, Va.
        She is survived by a brother, Charles C. Ramsey Jr. of Big Timber, Mont.
      