
        Olive A. Beech, a leader in the aviation industry and a co-founder and chairwoman of the Beech Aircraft Company, died yesterday at her home in Wichita, Kan., at the age of 89, her family said.
        Under her leadership, Beech Aircraft became a leading manufacturer of private airplanes for general aviation, including propeller, turbo-prop and jet planes. It also won missile and space contracts.
        Mrs. Beech's career began by chance. As a young woman, she was hired in 1925 as the secretary to Walter Beech, the director of the Travel Air Manufacturing Company in Wichita. They later married.
        In 1932 they formed their company as the Beechcraft company, with Mrs. Beech as the secretary-treasurer. While her husband was a talented designer of planes, she emerged as the hard-driving supervisor and shrewd manager of the corporate finances.
        When Mr. Beech suffered encephalitis in 1940, she took full command and retained much of that control even after he returned to work.
        Upon his death in 1950, she took over as president and chairwoman. She gave up the presidency in 1968 and remained as chairwoman until 1982, then became chairwoman emeritus.
        The company grew from having a handful of employees to a payroll of more than 10,000 and annual sales exceeding $900 million.
        The Raytheon Company bought Beech Aircraft in 1980, and she was elected to the parent company's board and executive committee.
        Mrs. Beech was a past president of the Women's International Association of Aeronautics and a leader in other aviation organizations. She was appointed to national boards by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
        Fortune magazine twice named her as one of the top 10 women in business in the 1970's. She was awarded the aviation industry's Wright Brothers Trophy and was inducted into the Aviation Hall of Fame. She was also active in many charitable organizations.
        Mrs. Beech was born on a farm in Waverly, Kan., and grew up in Paola, Kan. She displayed her budding managerial talent at the age of 11 when she took over some of the family's financial chores, including paying its bills. She was educated at the American Secretarial and Business College in Wichita.
        Surviving are two daughters, Suzanne Beech Warner of Boulder City, Nev., and Mary Lynn Oliver of Wichita, and three grandchildren.
      