
        Elisabeth Draper, an interior designer in New York for 60 years, died in her sleep at her home in Manhattan on Monday. She was 93.
        John R. Taylor Jr., one of Mrs. Draper's grandnephews, said she had been in declining health for the last four years.
        Mrs. Draper was one of the grande dames of decorating in an era when a professionally decorated home was a mark of privilege.
        She became known for comfortable rooms that mixed antiques with contemporary furnishings.
        In 1967, she said: "I came along in that lovely ladies' era of decorating and just before all the talented men began emerging in the field."
        Self-taught, Mrs. Draper was responsible for the decor of countless country houses, city apartments and houses as well as executive suites in banks.
        She was born Elisabeth Carrington Frank in New York City in 1900, the daughter of Charles and Louise Frank. Mr. Frank was a banker. She attended Miss Spence's School but left before her graduation in 1918 to be trained as a radio operator 1st class, and served in that capacity until the end of World War I. Eisenhowers Were Clients
        Soon after the war, she married Seth Low, a banker. When the couple were divorced in 1929, Mrs. Draper began her career in decorating with her sister Tiffany Taylor, establishing a firm called Taylor & Low.
        In 1935, she married Dr. George Draper, an internist and specialist in psychosomatic medicine. In 1936, Mrs. Draper established her business under her own name.
        Mrs. Draper was prominent in the Long Island social world for decades. President and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower were among her numerous clients. She decorated their New York home as well as the Eisenhower farmhouse in Gettysburg, Pa.
        She decorated the American Embassy in Paris for Ambassador Amory Houghton, worked on a number of rooms at the White House, and did the interiors of Blair House. The Old Merchant's House on East Fourth Street in Manhattan was restored under her direction.
        Mrs. Draper is survived by her son, Seth Low Jr., of Syosset, L.I., and her stepdaughter, Penelope Buchanan of Cleveland.
        The funeral will be tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. James's Church, at Madison Avenue and 71st Street.
      