
        Helen Kaplan, who devoted her life to helping retarded children and making the public aware of their needs, died on Wednesday at Central General Hospital in Plainview, L.I. A resident of Old Westbury, she was 82.
        She suffered a brief illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Kaplan was a founder and charter member of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, Nassau County Chapter. She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director. After that, she continued to attend functions and maintained an active interest in the organization until her death.
        In the late 1940's retarded children had few opportunities in education, training or recreation. This led to the birth of the association in New York City in 1949. News quickly spread to Long Island and the Nassau chapter sprang up the same year. Son Died of Leukemia
        Mrs. Kaplan's first child, David, was retarded, and died of leukemia at the age of 9 in 1952, two years after she opened the fledgling association's first day camp for 24 children. In 1950 she started a demonstration training program, which she ran for eight years.
        She became the guiding force behind the growth of the Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children, whose more than 8,000 members support educational, vocational, residential and other programs to serve 1,400 children and adults and their families. She spent 11 years as a full-time volunteer until the death of her husband, Allan, in 1960, when she joined the salaried staff.
        The New York association now has chapters in nearly every county and sister organizations across the country. The statewide group, Nysarc Inc., belongs to the Arc of the United States.
        Mrs. Kaplan grew up in Philadelphia. She graduated from the Philadelphia Conservatory of Music and was an accomplished pianist.
        She sat on several influential committees and received many honors. Among them was the first Helen Award, created by a State Commissioner of Mental Health, Alan Miller, and named after her.
        Mrs. Kaplan is survived by another son, Michael, of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      