
        Dr. Wilma Thompson Donahue, an expert in the psychology of aging and director emeritus of the University of Michigan Institute of Gerontology, died on Tuesday at her home in Ann Arbor. She was 92.
        She had had a long illness, the university reported.
        Dr. Donahue was among the country's first clinical psychologists when she began her career at Ann Arbor in 1935 as a practitioner of the branch of psychology that deals with the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of personality and behavior problems. Her reputation widened in the 1950's as her name appeared in journals and books on housing, medical care and other subjects concerning the elderly.
        She served on state commissions on aging and was founding president of the Michigan Society of Gerontology. Ten years ago, she was in the first group inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame.
        Nationally, Dr. Donahue took part in White House Conferences on Aging in 1961, 1971 and 1981 and was a member of related policy boards for Presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon and Jimmy Carter. She served for 10 years as director of the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, a post she left 10 years ago.
        Born in Mitchellville, Iowa, she earned three degrees in psychology at the University of Michigan, including a doctorate in 1937. She practiced at the mental hygiene clinic of the Student Health Service starting in 1935 and was appointed an instructor in the department of psychology three years later.
        In 1951, she became the founding director of the university's division of gerontology and took the same position at the transformed Institute of Gerontology in 1966. She retired in 1970.
        At the time, the university's Regents cited her ultimate mission as apolitical and purely educational: "She sought to elicit the truth about old people, especially those distressed in mind, body, or estate."
        Dr. Donahue's husband, Lester, died in 1963 after 41 years of marriage.
      