
        Alison Raymond Lanier, who made a career of untangling the confusions that foreign posts might pose for American career women, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76.
        She was the author of a series of books explaining the ways of overseas cultures. But since such exchanges are a two-way street, she also wrote books to help foreigners sort out the mysterious ways of American society.
        Thus, her "Living in the U.S.A." (Scribner, 1973) was translated into half a dozen languages, including Arabic, Japanese and Chinese. Her last book, "The Rising Sun on Main Street: Working with the Japanese" (International Information Press, 1990), sought to help Americans puzzled by the customs of Japanese living among them.
        Her 11 books included an "Update" series that went through several editions, most of them issued by her own company, Overseas Briefing Associates, and by Intercultural Press. They ranged from "Update -- Britain" to "Update -- Venezuela". Graduate of Bryn Mawr
        Mrs. Lanier, a native of Manhattan, was a 1938 honors graduate of Bryn Mawr College, for which she did public-relations work in the early 1940's. In World War II, she served in the United States Navy Women's Reserve, retiring in 1946 as a commander.
        In the 1950's she traveled widely as executive director of the foundation-supported Committee of Correspondence, which worked to make women into leaders in their countries' development. These experiences prompted her first book, "Half the World's People" (Apoleton-Century-Crofts, 1965). After that she directed hospitality programs at the United Nations for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
        In 1967 she founded Overseas Briefing Associates. It provided seminars for corporations and organizations increasingly active overseas and ready to dispatch personnel into unfamiliar territory. The briefings went over the difficulties facing women, whose chances of foreign assignments were just opening up.
        Two years ago she organized a volunteer service to help newcomers from the former Soviet bloc to tackle English and adjust to life in America.
        Mrs. Lanier's husband, Albert G., died last September.
        She is survived by a sister, Audrey McMahon of Lawrenceville, N.J., and a brother, Edward A. Raymond of North Branford, Conn.
      