
        Lacey Fosburgh, a writer whose books chronicled murder, family passions and mystery in India, died last night at California Pacific Hospital in San Francisco. She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New York Times, died of complications of breast cancer, said a friend of the family.
        Ms. Fosburgh's books were the nonfiction "Closing Time" (1977) and the novels "Old Money" (1983), about a woman photographer's painful relationship with her father, and "India Gate" (1991), a sprawling, passionate novel set in India. At her death, she was writing a novel set in present-day New York City under contract to Simon & Schuster.
        She was a staff reporter for the Times from 1968 to late 1973. In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.  Murder and Mysteries
        A 1973 murder case about which Ms. Fosburgh wrote for The Times became the subject of "Closing Time," which was a selection of the Literary Guild and the Doubleday Book Club. It won a Mystery Writers of America award.
        The murder victim was a troubled teacher, Roseann Quinn. The police said she took an Indiana drifter, John Wayne Wilson, home to her apartment on West 72d Street in Manhattan from a nearby singles bar. They said her body had been sexually mutilated. After being held five months on murder charges, Mr. Wilson hanged himself in his jail cell.
        In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist."
        Ms. Fosburgh was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Hugh Whitney Fosburgh, a journalist and author who died in 1976, and Helen Edwards Fosburgh. Through her paternal grandmother, Leila Whitney Fosburgh, Ms. Fosburgh was descended from the Whitney family. She graduated from the Brearley School in Manhattan and Sarah Lawrence College. She was a debutante at a dinner-dance at the St. Regis Hotel. From 1964 to 1966 she studied in New Delhi on a Fulbright grant.
        Her 1973 marriage to Marc Libarle ended in divorce in 1975.
        She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
      