
        Dr. Barbara Biber Bodansky, a leading researcher in child psychology and early education for nearly half a century, died on Tuesday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 89.
        Her family said she had had a long illness.
        Dr. Biber -- the name she used professionally -- was chairman of the child development faculty of the Bank Street College of Education from 1931 to 1960. She directed its research division from 1950 to 1963.
        In those positions, she played a central role in creating several new graduate and research programs dealing with early education theory, child psychology and social policy.
        In 1973 she became a Distinguished Research Scholar Emeritus at the college, which is on 112th Street near Broadway and was founded in 1916 as a center for training and research in early childhood education. Strong Self-Images
        As a teacher, Dr. Biber believed that the best early education programs develop the emotional life of children as well as their intellects, foster strong self-images, encourage responsibility to others, and support imagination and curiosity.
        Toward that end, Dr. Biber, along with her colleagues at the college, helped to establish teacher workshops in New York City public schools in the 1940's and 50's.
        In the 1960's she directed a study of schools and mental health with a $1 million grant from the National Institutes of Mental Health. At the end of that decade, she began devising the basic principles for federally financed day care and Head Start programs.
        At the age of 80, she completed "Early Education and Psychological Development" (Yale University Press, 1984). She also was co-author of two books reporting major research studies: "Child Life in School" (1942) and "The Pyschological Impact of School Experience" (1969).
        Dr. Biber, who was born in Brooklyn, first attended Barnard College and then graduated from the University of Chicago. She received a Ph.D. in psychology in 1942 from Columbia University.
        In 1929, Dr. Biber was married to Dr. Oscar Bodansky, chief of clinical biochemistry at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He died in 1977.
        She is survived by a daughter, Margery B. Franklin of Manhattan; two grandsons, Kenneth and David Frankin, and a sister, Lilian Uviller Pilat.
      