
        Lillian de la Torre Bueno McCue, an author who specialized in historical mysteries both fictional and nonfictional, died Monday at a nursing home in Colorado Springs, Colo., where she lived. She was 91.
        Her pen name was Lillian de la Torre, a part of her maiden name.
        Miss de la Torre, a former president of the Mystery Writers of America, wrote for nearly half a century and was working on manuscripts at her death.
        Describing herself as a histo-detector, she used scholarly research to delve into old crimes and scandals, especially those in 18th-century Britain and arrive at her own modern solutions.
        She defined her work as "the solving of hitherto unexplained mysteries of bygone times" and said her digging was characterized by "a blind alley today, a feat of serendipity tomorrow."
        In a related genre of work, she also took real people and events from history and weaved them into fictionalized mystery plots.
        Miss de la Torre wrote numerous books, short stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, reviews for The New York Times Book Review, poetry and plays, including one produced in Alfred Hitchcock's television series.
        Her first book, "Elizabeth Is Missing, or Truth Triumphant" (Knopf, 1945), rebutted 12 theories on the disappearance of a maidservant near the Tower of London in 1753, then offered Miss de la Torre's own answer.
        A book review in The Times said she had combined "the scholarly patience of a candidate for a Ph.D." with "the ingenuity of a Nero Wolfe." Joseph Wood Krutch called the book "certainly the best and most ingenious account of the famous Elizabeth Canning mystery."
        Another book in that vein was "Villainy Detected" (Appleton-Century, 1947), subtitled "a collection of the most sensational true crimes and most notorious real criminals that blotted the name of Britain in the years 1660 to 1800."
        Her most popular fiction was a series of short stories she concocted about Samuel Johnson and James Boswell under the title "Dr. Sam: Johnson, Detector." She said she used "imagined episodes which recall old crimes and frauds, real personalities, places and situations for the nucleus of the plot."
        The origin of her career was no mystery. As a girl, she became fascinated with detective stories in her father's library. "I was practically born a detective-story fan and hardly remember a time when I was not addicted," she once said.
        But she had not intended to become a writer. It was not until midlife that she did so, when she began recording her speculation about how Johnson might have approached mysteries of his era.
        Miss de la Torre was born in Manhattan. She graduated from New Rochelle College and earned master's degrees from Columbia and Harvard-Radcliffe, then taught high school English.
        Miss de la Torre was married for 52 years to George McCue, an English professor at Colorado College who died in 1984.
        She was a founding member of the Colorado Springs Chorale and sang in it as recently as 1991.
        Surviving are a brother, Henry de la Torre Bueno of Oxnard, Calif., and a sister, Helen B. Barton of Tucson, Ariz.
      