
        Dr. Daphne A. Roe, a dermatologist and nutrition expert, died on Wednesday at a community hospital in Ithaca, N.Y., after having been injured earlier in the day in an automobile accident near Trumansburg, N.Y. She was 70.
        Dr. Roe was a professor emeritus of nutritional sciences at Cornell University. Her expertise ranged from the role of beta carotene, a precursor of vitamin A, in protecting the human immune system from sunlight to nutritional deficiencies in the elderly to interactions between drugs and nutrients.
        In the last 15 years she taught nutrition to graduate students from North America, Europe, Asia and Africa.
        Awards in 1987
        Dr. Roe was a fellow of the American Institute of Nutrition. Her honors included the American Medical Association's Joseph B. Goldberger Award in Clinical Nutrition in 1987, and, the same year, the Lederle Award of the American Institute of Nutrition, which described her as "a major contributor to the recognition of drug-induced nutritional deficiencies."
        Her most recent research was in nutrition and aging, particularly the role of carotenoids, including beta carotene, in the protection of the immune systems of older people. She found that moderate doses of beta carotene can protect people from the harmful effects of ultraviolet light on the immune system. She also established a link between overexposure to sunlight and reduction of beta carotene in plasma. In Time, the Priesthood
        Beta carotene is a nutrient that the human body converts to vitamin A; some researchers believe it plays a role in reducing the risk of cancer.
        In 1984, she found that the recommended dietary allowance for riboflavin was insufficient for women who exercise, and proposed a doubling of that level.
        Her books included "Drug-Induced Nutritional Deficiencies" (1976), "Alcohol and Diet," (1980), "Nutrition and the Skin" (1986) and "Geriatric Nutrition" (1992).
        At the time of her death she was in divinity school, a candidate for the Episcopal priesthood.
        Dr. Roe was born in London. She was graduated from the University of London in 1945, where she received her M.D. degree five years later. In 1963, she joined the Cornell faculty.
        She is survived by two sons -- Adrian, of Pittsburgh, and David, of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Laura, of Hartford, and a grandson.
      