
        Barbara Taylor Schoen, an author and the founder and director of the writing program at the State University of New York at Purchase, died on Thursday at her Purchase home. She was 69.
        She had been ill for a long time, her family said.
        Mrs. Schoen, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Bryn Mawr College, cum laude, and Boston University, where she earned a master's degree in physics. While pursuing a doctorate in physics at Boston, she worked on isotope analysis as a technician in the Department of Biophysics of Harvard Medical School.
        While raising four children, she began a writing career in the 1950's and saw her short stories first published in Seventeen magazine. Over the years, she also contributed articles on education, personal computers and other subjects to various periodicals.
        She was the author of two well-received novels for young readers, "A Place and A Time" (1967) and "A Spark of Joy" (1969), both published by Crowell.
        Mrs. Schoen (rhymes with phone) became a teacher-counselor in 1970 at the Cooperative College in Mount Vernon, which was later merged into the College of Letters and Sciences at SUNY-Purchase. At Purchase she became an assistant professor of language arts in 1973 and an associate professor five years later.
        A tenured faculty member, she was teaching nine undergraduate courses covering various aspects of writing from poetry to essays to fiction and science. She had been director of the college's Writing Program since 1984. As such she developed a series of courses and a set of creative-writing classes for literature majors hoping to write professionally.
        Mrs. Schoen is survived by her husband of 47 years, Donald R.; two sons, Robert of Southport, Conn., and John of Riverside, Conn.; two daughters, Claire Werner of Norwalk, Conn., and Susan Terray of Woods Hole, Mass.; her mother, Caroline Colgate Taylor of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Day of Canberra, Australia; a brother, Howard C. Taylor 3d of Jericho, Vt., and six grandchildren.
      