
        Jean Eckart, who designed sets with her husband, William, for many Broadway shows, including "Fiorello!" and "Damn Yankees," died on Monday at her home in Dallas. She was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, her husband said.
        Throughout the 50's and 60's, the Eckarts established themselves as among the most versatile and productive theatrical designers in the business, often working on costumes and lighting as well as sets. They were associated especially with musicals, including "The Golden Apple," "Li'l Abner," "She Loves Me" and "Mame," and received a Donaldson Award and two Tony nominations.
        They also did design work for television, notably for the 1957 CBS broadcast of Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Cinderella." In 1959, they were co-producers, as well as the designers, of "Once Upon a Mattress," which starred Carol Burnett. Their film work included "Damn Yankees," "The Pajama Game" and "The Night They Raided Minsky's." The Goal: 'Light and Airy'
        "We tried to do things that were light and airy and that suited the character of each show," Mr. Eckart said yesterday. "In some ways, we were more interested in the movement of the scenery, and how that contributed to the show." In a review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson described the Eckarts' work in "Once Upon a Mattress" as "effortless and cheerful -- a shining fairy-story production designed out of affection and good humor."
        Mrs. Eckart, whose maiden name was Jean Levy, was born in Chicago on Aug. 18, 1921. She met her future husband, whom she married in 1943, when they were both students in New Orleans, and they attended the Yale School of Drama together. In 1971, the Eckarts moved to Dallas to teach at Southern Methodist University, while continuing to take on occasional free-lance design projects.
        Mrs. Eckart received a master's degree in social work from the University of Texas and co-founded the Community Psychotherapy Center, a nonprofit institution in Dallas.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Edwin Levy of Topeka, Kans.; a half-sister, Linda Levy of Boulder, Colo.; a son, Peter, of San Francisco; a daughter, Julie Johnson of Norwalk, Conn., and a grandson, Travis Johnson, also of Norwalk.
      