
        Florence Small Gaynor, the first black woman to head a major teaching hospital in the United States, died on Sept. 16 at Christiana Medical Center in Newark, Del. She was 72.
        She died unexpectedly after a sudden brain hemorrhage, said her son, Wardell.
        Mrs. Gaynor, a registered nurse by training, rose through the ranks of administration at several large New York hospitals at a time when there were few women or blacks in such positions. In February 1971, she was chosen from a field of 20 candidates, the rest of them male, to be executive director of Sydenham Hospital in Harlem, making her the first black woman ever to head one of the city's municipal hospitals.
        Eighteen months later she accepted a job in New Jersey, as executive director of Martland Hospital in Newark, a 600-bed teaching hospital operated by the state's medical school. Now part of the the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, it was then the state's largest hospital. Struggle to Become Nurse
        Born in Jersey City, the fourth of six girls, Mrs. Gaynor fought racial barriers from the time she graduated from high school, at the age of 15, to get training to become a nurse. The first nursing school where she applied, at Jersey City Medical Center, turned her down because it did not admit blacks.
        She worked at a doll factory and at an electric plant to help support her family and then applied the nursing school at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. She graduated as a registered nurse in 1946 and worked first at Queens General Hospital.
        After a stint as a public-health nurse in East Harlem for New York City's Health Department, she worked as head nurse at Francis Delafield Hospital in Washington Heights and as a school nurse with the Board of Education in Newark.
        At the same time she was pursuing a bachelor's degree in nursing and then a master's degree in public health at New York University. She spent the summer of 1965 at the University of Oslo in Norway studying the Scandinavian health system.
        When she returned, she pursued a career in hospital administration, starting in the pediatrics department of Lincoln Hospital, which is staffed by the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. After a series of promotions, she was named assistant administrator in 1970.
        After heading Sydenham Hospital and Martland Hospital, she left the Northeast to serve from 1976 to 1980 as director of hospital and health services at Meharry Medical College in Nashville, a historically black school that has produced many of the nation's black doctors.
        From 1980 until 1984, she was director of the West Philadelphia Community Mental Health Consortium in Philadelphia. For two years, before she retired in Wilmington, Del., she worked again as a school nurse, in Los Angeles.
        She is survived by two sons, Wardell Michael Gaynor of Brooklyn and Matthew Small Gaynor of Cincinnati; a daughter, Brenda L. Gainer of Wilmington; 10 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      