
        Charlotte Catherine Campbell, a retired professor who advanced the knowledge and treatment of infections caused by fungi, died on Friday at Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston. A Boston resident, she was 78.
        She had had a brief illness, said a spokesman for J. S. Waterman & Sons funeral homes in Boston.
        A specialist in medical mycology, the study of fungi, Professor Campbell wrote or was the co-author of more than 100 treatises, particularly on the causes and cures of histoplasmosis, lung diseases caused by fungus. For her work, she received the highest award of the International Society for Human and Animal Mycology in 1979. Although she never finished her doctorate, this was one of many honors she received.
        Born on a farm near Winchester, Va., she became fascinated with fungi that form in garden soil and get into the blood, brain and lungs of humans, where the fungi grow and cause trouble. She told an interviewer after the 1979 award that the fungi "are molds like the ones that grow on bread in the fridge or on damp shoes in the closet."
        She trained at Ohio State University, American University, George Washington University and Duke University as well as on the job as a microbiologist. In 1948, she became chief of medical mycology at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Washington.
        She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970. Three years later she accepted an appointment as professor of medical sciences at Southern Illinois University and also served as department chairwoman from 1974 until her academic retirement in 1977.
        She then worked on foreign-student exchanges for the American Society of Microbiology in what was then the Soviet Union for three years. More recently, she worked as a volunteer at Brigham & Women's Hospital and with battered women in the Boston area.
        Professor Campbell is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Flint of Daytona Beach, Fla.
      