
        Dr. Harriet L. Hardy, a pioneer in occupational medicine and the first woman to become a full professor at Harvard Medical School, died on Wednesday in Boston. She was 87.
        Dr. Hardy died from lymphoma, a cancer of the immune system, at the Massachusetts General Hospital, where she had worked since 1940, hospital officials said.
        Dr. Hardy set out to become a country doctor but developed an early interest in toxicology and environmentally related illness. Her investigation of respiratory illness among factory workers in Lynn and Salem, Mass., in the mid-1940's led to the discovery that they had come down with berylliosis, an often fatal disease caused by exposure to the light metal beryllium.
        Berylliosis results from inhaling dust or fumes containing beryllium, but the symptoms may not emerge until 10 to 20 years after exposure to even a small amount of the metal. The disease, which develops in only a small percentage of people who are exposed, can produce coughing, shortness of breath, weight loss and scarring of the lungs. Created a Model Registry
        Dr. Hardy set up a registry of beryllium illness that the hospital still maintains. The registry became a model for tracking other occupational hazards and establishing guidelines for their control.
        In 1947, Dr. Hardy created an occupational medicine clinic at the hospital and remained its director until she retired in 1971. Dr. Hardy also led the occupational medical service at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge for more than 20 years and advised the institute on safety considerations relating to its first nuclear reactor. She also helped coordinate the study of industrial diseases at Dartmouth College.
        Dr. Hardy was not the first woman appointed to the Harvard Medical School faculty but was its first full professor. That appointment did not come until the end of her career, in 1971, when she was made clinical professor of medicine.
        Dr. Homayoun Kazemi, chief of pulmonary and critical care at the Massachusetts General Hospital, said Dr. Hardy was "very kind, yet bombastic, never hesitating to express her opinions."
        "She spoke her mind, and there was no ambiguity about what she said," Dr. Kazemi said. Began as School Doctor
        Harriet Louise Hardy was born in Arlington, Mass., on Sept. 23, 1905. She graduated from Wellesley College in 1928, received her medical degree from Cornell University in 1932, and went on to train as an intern and resident at Philadelphia General Hospital.
        She began her career as school doctor at the Northfield School in western Massachusetts. In 1939, Dr. Hardy became college doctor and head of health education at Radcliffe College in Cambridge, where she developed an interest in women's growth and physical fitness.
        Her lifelong interest in beryllium poisoning developed from her investigation of a mysterious respiratory illness that had occurred among workers making fluorescent lamps at the General Electric and Sylvania plants on Boston's north shore. Many of those affected were women.
        At the time, Dr. Hardy was working on problems of lead poisoning with Dr. Joseph Aubt in Boston. He had been informed of the outbreak and told Dr. Hardy, "Something is happening in the factories, and they don't know what is going on." He encouraged her to investigate.
        In linking the illness to beryllium, Dr. Hardy went back to work done in Russia and Germany in the 1920's and 1930's. Wrote a Standard Textbook
        She described acute and chronic beryllium poisoning in papers in 1946 and 1947. About the same time, other groups described a similar illness among workers exposed to beryllium in Ohio.
        The work of Dr. Hardy and others led to precautions that allowed safer use of beryllium.
        Dr. Hardy worked with the Atomic Energy Commission in Los Alamos, N.M., to study hazards associated with nuclear energy. Beryllium is used in nuclear energy plants and the aerospace industry.
        Dr. Hardy was a crusader against diseases caused by occupational exposure to dangerous substances. In 1954, she was among the first to link asbestos and cancer. She studied mercury poisoning and anthrax, a bacterial disease, among farm workers and was a pioneer in using drugs known as chelating agents to treat lead poisoning.
        Dr. Hardy and Dr. Alice Hamilton, another occupational medicine pioneer, wrote a standard textbook on industrial toxicology. Dr. Hardy was the author of more than 100 scientific papers.
        She is survived by four nephews.
      