
        Lois Kibbee, a stage actress, director and writer who became known late in life for her decadelong role as the matriarch Geraldine Whitney Saxon on the daytime television serial "The Edge of Night," died on Monday in Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Carrie Nye Cavett.
        Miss Kibbee joined the CBS serial in 1970 and played the character of Geraldine intermittently until the show went off the air in December 1984. She received four Emmy nominations for best supporting actress on the show, and, as an "Edge of Night" associate writer, shared an Emmy nomination for outstanding writing in the show's 1981-1982 season. Miss Kibbee took on the role of Elizabeth Sanders on the ABC television serial "One Life to Live" in 1986.  A Veteran of the Stage
        Born in Wheeling, W.Va., she began her acting career at the age of 5 in a road version of "Rip Van Winkle" while her parents were appearing in a stock-company production there.
        In 1951 she founded the Civic Theater of El Paso and was its resident director for eight years. Before establishing herself in daytime television, Miss Kibbee had appeared in more than 350 stage productions around the country. She also appeared on Broadway in "A Man for All Seasons" and "Venus Is."
        Eventually she became a radio actress in Hollywood, appearing on "Our Miss Brooks," "Sam Spade," "The Jack Benny Show" and "The Green Hornet." She also acted in the 1980 movie "Caddyshack" and in many other films.
        Miss Kibbee was the author of two books: a 1967 biography of Christine Jorgensen and a 1970 biography of Joan Bennett, "The Bennett Playbill."
        At the time of her death she was writing a biography of her family, which traces its theatrical roots back to Mississippi River showboats. Her mother, the actress Lois Wilson Kibbee, made her theatrical debut in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" on a river boat; her uncle was the actor Guy Kibbee.
        She is survived by her mother, of Chino, Calif.; two brothers, Milne, of Chino and James, of New Orleans; and a sister, Elizabeth Zonn.
      