
        Dr. Dorothy Borg, a Columbia University historian of United States-East Asian relations, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        Her family said she had had a brief illness.
        From 1966 until her retirement several years ago, Dr. Borg was a senior research associate at Columbia's East Asian Institute, lecturing and directing academic conferences. She served as a mentor to generations of scholars since the 1940's when she was associated with the American Institute of Pacific Relations.
        She was the author or editor of a number of books, including "The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis, 1933-1938" (Harvard University Press, 1965), for which Columbia awarded her its Bancroft Prize in American History. Based on research in personal papers of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and high officials dealing with East Asian affairs, it chronicled events leading to Pearl Harbor, starting with Japan's invasion of Manchuria.
        She was the co-editor, with Waldo Heinrichs, of "Uncertain Years: Chinese American Relations, 1947-1950" (Columbia University Press, 1980), which remains in print. Defended Targets of McCarthy
        A native of Elberon, N.J., she graduated from Wellesley College and earned master's and doctoral degrees at Columbia University. She spent two years in Beijing and Shanghai in the 1940's as a staff member of the American Council of the Institute of Pacific Relations.
        A few years later, the Institute was a target of a campaign by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy to find out "who lost China" to the Communists. Dr. Borg set aside her career for some time to help defend Owen Lattimore, the historian, and other colleagues who came under fire from the Senator.
        Before she joined the institute at Columbia, she was a researcher at Harvard University where she helped organize area programs that, starting in the 1960's, trained scholars in American and East Asian history.
        Dr. Borg is survived by two nephews, John Loengard of New York City and Richard Loengard of Basking Ridge, N.J.
      