
        Genevieve Sanchez Klein, a former member of the New York State Board of Regents and an outspoken critic of sex education and busing to integrate schools, died on Monday at her home in Daytona, Fla. She was 79.
        The cause was cancer of the brain and lungs, said Howard Hurwitz, a friend.
        Ms. Klein was appointed to the regents board by the New York State Assembly in 1974, after working for nearly 30 years as a physical education instructor and administrator in New York City public schools.
        She was chairwoman of the physical education department at Jamaica High School in Queens from the early 1960's until 1973, when she retired from the school system. Before that, she had taught at Bayside High School in Queens. Denied Re-Election
        She was working an assistant professor of health at Lehman College of the City University of New York when she was appointed as the second woman ever to serve on the Board of Regents, which supervises all education in the state.
        During her three-year term, she frequently voted in the minority to oppose measures on forced busing of children to further integration of schools. She also voted against a set of guidelines to help school districts select textbooks that dealt with sex or included profanity, saying the rules did not protect the right of parents to object to such material.
        She sought re-election to a full seven-year term on the board in 1977, but she was defeated by a vote of 108 to 99 by the Assembly, then controlled by Democrats.
        After leaving the board, she was active in the anti-abortion movement and lectured on policy for public schools. She was also active in the Family Defense Council, a group based in Queens that campaigned against curriculum changes advocated by former Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez. She moved to Daytona in 1990.
        Ms. Klein graduated from New York University in 1936 and received a master's degree in education from Colorado State College of Education in 1937.
        She is survived by two sons, John F., of Orange Park, Fla., and James V., of Bellmont, Calif; a sister, Muriel Zeigler, of Malverne, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      