
        Heather Farr, the professional golfer whose four-and-a-half-year battle with cancer won her scores of admirers from inside and outside the golf world, died Saturday night in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 28.
        Since being diagnosed with breast cancer in July 1989, Farr underwent more than 15 operations, ranging from a radical mastectomy to breast reconstruction to bone marrow transplants and spinal surgery.
        Through all the setbacks, she persevered, which characterized her approach to golf as well. Although she was just 5 feet 1 inch, she seemed bigger in stature.
        "One of the things I always remember about her was that she walked so erect," said JoAnne Carner, the Hall of Fame golfer. "It was like she was saying, 'I'm not 5-1, I'm 6 feet.' "
        Lessons at 7
        Farr, born and raised in Phoenix, began her golf career at the age of 7, when she first took lessons from Bob Day, then the professional at Coronado Golf Course in Scottsdale. It was an unusually young age to begin lessons, but Farr's father, Gerald, convinced Day that Heather was ready.
        "He told me that she followed him around all 18 holes every weekend," Day told The Arizona Republic. "I said: 'Stop right there. Anybody who can walk 18 holes and watch somebody else play golf, well, she's ready.' "
        Because of her small stature, Farr could not hit the ball as far as many of her peers. But she made up for that with an excellent short game, a wonderful putting stroke and passionate aggressiveness.
        She quickly developed into one of the country's most successful amateurs. At 13, she won the Arizona State Amateur. By the time she was 15, she was named the American Junior Golf Association player of the year for the first of two times.
        'Like an Ambassador'
        Under the tutelage of Arch Watkins, her game continued to develop in college at Arizona State University, where she was named to two all-America teams. Farr's coach at Arizona State, Linda Vollstedt, said Farr's influence there was enduring.
        "She was like an ambassador for our golf program," Vollstedt said. "Everywhere she went, people sought out Heather."
        Farr played on the 1984 Curtis Cup team and the 1984 World Amateur team. Two years later, at 20, she became the youngest player from the 1985 Ladies Professional Golf Association's qualifying school to make the L.P.G.A. Tour.
        Her indefatigable nature and relentlessly upbeat attitude quickly won Farr many friends on the very competitive L.P.G.A. circuit. Twelve L.P.G.A. players were at the Scottsdale Memorial Hospital-North Saturday night when Farr died. "She never quit," said a former L.P.G.A. president, Judy Dickinson.
        Spirit of Perseverance
        In an interview last year, Farr characterized her philosophy on dealing with all of her problems. "You play through it," she said. "That's what you do. You just play through it."
        She applied that philosophy to the golf course and to her medical battles. Like many rookies, Farr struggled in her first season, going eight tournaments without winning any prize money. But in her three L.P.G.A. seasons before the discovery of breast cancer, she improved each year. The 1988 season was her best. She won $75,821 and finished tied for third at the Mazda Classic. In the middle of the next season, the lump in her breast that originally had been diagnosed as benign was found to be cancerous.
        Eleven months after Farr's first chemotheraphy treatments ended, doctors found that the cancer had spread to her skull and spine. A tumor on her back was removed, followed by a bone-marrow transplant. After the bone marrow transplant, a tumor on her skull and lesions on her hip were discovered. In March, while the cancer was in a brief remission, Farr was married to Goran Lingmerth, a former kicker for the Cleveland Browns. She is survived by her husband; her father, Gerald; her mother, Sharon, and her sister, Missy Farr-Kay, all of Phoenix.
      