
        Claudia McNeil, an actress known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "A Raisin in the Sun," died on Thursday in the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 77 and had lived in the home for nine years.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said Rita Madero, a friend.
        At the opening of "A Raisin in the Sun," by Lorraine Hansberry, in 1959 at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, Miss McNeil won praise for her heroic performance as the matriarch in a black family on the South Side of Chicago. Critics found that Miss McNeil imbued that simple character with nobility of spirit. Film and Musical Versions
        Miss McNeil went on to be a member of what has been lauded by critics as the outstanding cast of the 1961 film of "A Raisin in the Sun," directed by Daniel Petrie. The introspective movie, confined largely to one room, was found to be as fine as the play.
        On the screen, Miss McNeil was stolid, voluminous and serene as a mother trying to control her son and wanting to buy her family a respectable home.
        She was also was praised as bringing a commanding presence to a 1981 production of the musical "Raisin," presented by Equity Library Theater.
        In the 1959 production, she weighed nearly 300 pounds, as she did in a television production of "The Member of the Wedding." But by 1978, when she sang at Michael's Pub in Manhattan, she had slimmed down to 159 pounds and observed, "I lost a whole person."
        Until then, she had not sung in New York since she appeared in Langston Hughes's "Simply Heavenly" in 1957. Before then, she had been a slender dancer and singer.
        Miss McNeil was born in Baltimore. She became a licensed librarian and early in her carer sang in vaudeville theatres and on the radio as well as in nightclubs. She made her legitimate New York stage debut in 1953, when she began playing Tituba in "The Crucible" at the Martin Beck Theater. She also appeared in the 1959 film "The Last Angry Man."
        Early in her career, before she reached Broadway in "Simply Heavenly," she sang in Harlem and Greenwich Village and on 52d Street. She also toured with the Katherine Dunham troupe.
        Ms. Madero said that Miss McNeil was married when she was 18 to a man who died in World War II, and that her second marriage ended in divorce after two years.
      