
        Adelaide Hall, a singer whose Broadway career began in the 1921 revue "Shuffle Along" and who went on to become an international cabaret star, performing into her 90's, died on Sunday at Charing Cross Hospital in London. She was 92.
        The cause was an infection after a fall, said Barry Sullivan, a friend.
        Miss Hall's most recent appearance in New York City was in March at Weill Recital Hall, where she sang an exuberant program that ran from 1920's vaudeville tunes through Duke Ellington standards to such 1970's songs as "The Way We Were." Scat With Ellington
        She first won prominence in 1927, for her wordless, growling obbligato in "Creole Love Call" with the Duke Ellington Orchestra. The next year, she introduced "I Can't Give You Anything but Love" in the Broadway revue "Blackbirds of 1928." Through the years, she also worked with Count Basie, Art Tatum and Fats Waller. She frequently embellished her concerts with reminiscences of Ellington, Ethel Waters, Cab Calloway, Al Capone, Josephine Baker and other notable figures she had encountered.
        Miss Hall was born in Brooklyn and studied at Pratt Institute, where her father was a music teacher. After making her Broadway debut in 1921 in "Shuffle Along," a Eubie Blake-Noble Sissle revue, she starred in the 1923 revue "Runnin' Wild." In 1927, while she was touring in a revue with Duke Ellington, he heard her improvise a wordless countermelody to his "Creole Love Call." When they recorded it two days later, her vocal became an integral part of the piece; it is among the first recorded examples of "scat" singing.
        In "Blackbirds of 1928," Miss Hall starred opposite Bill (Bojangles) Robinson, and when the show moved to Paris in 1929, Miss Hall went with it. She remained there and starred at the Moulin Rouge and the Lido. Moved to London
        In 1936, she and her husband, Bert Hicks, opened a series of clubs in Paris and in London, which she was to make her home for half a century. In London's West End, she appeared in "Kiss Me Kate" (1951), "Love From Judy" (1952), "Someone to Talk To" (1956) and "Janie Jackson" (1968).
        Miss Hall returned to Broadway in 1957 to appear in the show "Jamaica," with Lena Horne, Ricardo Montalban, Ossie Davis and Alvin Ailey. In 1989, she was the subject of a documentary film, "Sophisticated Lady."
        Miss Hall's husband died in 1963.
      