
        Anna Sten, a melting-eyed but star-crossed Russian actress whom Samuel Goldwyn hoped to ballyhoo into another Garbo or Dietrich in the 1930's, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. Friends said she was in her late 80's.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said her lawyer, Hiram G. Shields. He said she had been in poor health.
        Miss Sten's case is cited by writers on film as a prime example of how, even in the golden age of the studio system, Hollywood moguls' plans to catapult promising performers to stardom sometimes went awry. As Ephraim Katz, a Hollywood historian and biographer, has written, "She somehow failed to appeal to American audiences."
        Her early work in the Soviet Union included the title role in a 1927 comedy, "The Girl With the Hatbox," which has been lauded in the United States for her skillful acting. She then appeared in films in pre-Hitler Germany before Mr. Goldwyn took her to Hollywood, with much publicity. Exotic in Hollywood
        Miss Sten's first acting there, the title role in "Nana" (1934), has been belittled as wooden though exotic. But she won critical praise with her sensitive portrayal of a wronged servant in her next film, "We Live Again" (1934). And her third Hollywood movie, "The Wedding Night" (1935), in which she co-starred with Gary Cooper, has been commended as entertaining. But it is also known for being, as Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide 1993 calls it, "Samuel Goldwyn's third and final attempt to make Anna Sten a new Garbo."
        After repeated poor box-office showings by her American movies, Mr. Goldwyn ended her contract, and she became known as "Goldwyn's folly." She went on to perform in a dozen other films.
        Miss Sten was born in Kiev, now in Ukraine. Originally she was named Annel Stenskaya Sudakevich and was sometimes called Anyuschka. She got her start in acting with the Moscow Art Theater.
        A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      