
        Queen Alexandra of Yugoslavia, the widow of Peter II, whose reign as the last King of Yugoslavia was ended in 1941 by invading German troops, died Saturday at her home outside London. She was 71.
        The Queen had been "very ill" with cancer for several years, said her daughter-in-law, Crown Princess Katherine.
        Alexandra was born into Greek royalty -- and tragedy -- on March 25, 1921, five months after her father, Alexander, King of the Hellenes, died of blood poisoning after being bitten by a pet monkey.
        Greece formally recognized her as a princess when she was 18 months old, but a year later she was in exile in England because of shifting Greek politics. She did not return to Greece until 13 years later, in 1935, when King George II, her uncle, returned to rule. Married Amid Royalty
        When the Germans overran Greece in World War II, Alexandra and her mother, the former Aspasia Manos, the daughter of a royal equerry, again traveled to London. There she met King Peter II, who was studying at Cambridge after being swept from his throne. Both Alexandra and Peter were great-grandchildren of Queen Victoria.
        She and Peter married on March 20, 1944, at the Yugoslav Legation in London, in the presence of three other monarchs in exile -- King George II of Greece, King Haakon of Norway and Queen Wilhemina of the Netherlands -- as well as King George VI of England, who was best man, and Queen Elizabeth, who is now the Queen Mother.
        The next year, King Peter was formally deposed when Tito established a Communist Government in Yugoslavia. Peter's property was confiscated and the couple was soon virtually penniless. Peter died in Denver in 1970 after a liver transplant.
        Their son, Crown Prince Alexander, who was born in Britain, traveled to Belgrade, the capital of Yugoslavia, last summer as part of an effort to restore the family dynasty and to bring peace to the Balkans.
        In addition to her son and daughter-in-law, Alexandra is survived by three grandchildren, Peter, Philip and Alexander.
      