
        Anne Spencer Lindbergh, a writer and the elder daughter of the aviation pioneer Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh, died Friday at her home in Thetford Center, Vt. She was 53.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Noel Perrin.
        Ms. Lindbergh was one of six children of her famous parents; she was born eight years after the kidnapping and killing of Charles A. Lindbergh Jr.
        She grew up in Darien, Conn., and, after studying at Radcliffe College for three years, moved to Paris to continue her education. While there she met and married a fellow student at the Sorbonne, Julien Feydy, who became a political scientist and university professor. They later divorced.
        She later married Jerzy Sapieyevski, a composer and conductor she met in Europe and with whom she moved to Washington. They also divorced.
        In her career as a writer, Ms. Lindbergh wrote 14 books, most of them for children. Her two most recent works are "Three Lives to Live" and "Travel Far, Pay No Fare." She was the recipient of several honors for her work, including an award from the International Reading Association.
        Two of her more popular books are "The People in Pineapple Place" and "The Prisoner of Pineapple Place," both written in Washington, where she was then living. Many of the scenic backgrounds were taken from areas in Georgetown close to her home. She also taught school in Washington.
        She moved to Vermont in 1987, and the next year she married Mr. Perrin, a writer and professor of environmental studies at Dartmouth College. Ms. Lindbergh also taught for several years at the Riverside School in Lyndonville, Vt.
        Ms. Lindbergh's mother, who is a poet and essayist, lives in Darien and Barnet, Vt. Her father died in 1974 at his home in Hawaii.
        Ms. Lindbergh is also survived by a daughter, Constance Feydy, and a son, Marek Sapieyevski, both of Thetford Center; two step-daughters, Elisabeth Perrin, of Seattle and Amy Perrin, of White River Junction, Vt.; a sister, Reeve Tripp, of Barnet, and three brothers, Jon, of North Bend, Wash., Land, of Missoula, Mont., and Scott, of Brasilia. Brazil.
      