
        Diana Brewster Clark, an educator and an authority on dyslexia, died at her home in Manhattan on Sunday. She was 56.
        Her daughter, Elise S. Pettus of Manhattan, said the cause of death was uterine cancer.
        Dr. Clark was recognized for her research on remedial education for dyslexia. Her book, "Dyslexia; Theory and Practice of Remedial Instruction" (York Press, 1988), is a standard text on the subject.
        In the preface to this work, Dr. Clark writes that despite considerable knowledge acquired over the last 50 years about the nature of dyslexia, a perception disorder that confuses images, it may be a long time before effective treatment is widely available. Instructional Methods
        Noting that remedial practice "cannot afford to wait" for research, she presents a comprehensive study of existing instructional methods and programs for dyslexic students.
        At the time of her death, Dr. Clark was an adjunct professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College and an active member of the Columbia Teachers College Alumni Council, of which she was moderator in 1988 and 1989. She was also a trustee of the New York City School Volunteers and a member of the Orton Dyslexia Society, the national advocacy group.
        Dr. Clark, who was born in Manhattan, attended Vassar College and graduated from Barnard College in 1959. She received a doctorate in education from Teachers College at Columbia in 1984. Taught at Marymount
        As a learning disabilities specialist, Dr. Clark taught the teaching of reading to children and young adults at the Nightingale-Bamford School and at the Communications and Learning Center of Marymount Manhattan College.
        Her latest work was a chapter on early reading and instruction in the book, "Learning About Learning Disabilities" (Academic Press, 1991).
        She was a board member of the Shaker Museum and the Columbia County Land Conservancy, both in Chatham, N.Y.
        Two marriages, to Thomas W. Pettus and to James M. Clark, ended in divorce.
        Besides her daughter Elise, Dr. Clark is survived by a daughter, Ashley S. Pettus, and a son, Brewster W. Pettus, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Whitney Armstrong and Janet York of Manhattan, and a brother, Benjamin Brewster, also of Manhattan.
      