
        Rita Klimova, a former dissident who served as Czechoslovakia's first Ambassador to the United States after the ouster of the Communist Government, died yesterday in a hospital in Prague. She was 62.
        Her death was reported by The Associated Press, which quoted C.T.K., the official news agency of the Czech Republic. She had recently undergone treatment for leukemia.
        Mrs. Klimova was diagnosed as having the disease shortly after she was named Ambassador to Washington in February 1990. She stepped down from the post in August 1992, less than four months before her country split into two nations, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
        After her retirement from the Czech diplomatic service last year, she lectured on Czech affairs at several universities, including the New School in Manhattan. Schooling in New York
        Mrs. Klimova was born in Europe but spent part of her youth in Manhattan, where her family fled in 1939 after the German invasion of Czechoslovakia. Her father, Batya Bat, was a journalist and writer who used the pen name Stanislav Budin.
        She attended grade school and junior high school in New York. In 1946, her family returned to Czechoslovakia, where she attended high school and college.
        Mrs. Klimova became a member of the Communist Party in 1948. She worked as a translator and taught political economics at Charles University in Prague.
        She was dismissed from her university post after Soviet-led troops of the Warsaw Pact invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968 to crush the liberal reforms of Alexander Dubcek.
        She devoted her efforts to defending human rights and the political opposition, and she was expelled from the party in 1970. In 1989 Mrs. Klimova became the spokeswoman for the peaceful revolution that toppled the Communist Government and elevated her fellow dissident, the playwright Vaclav Havel, to the presidency. Voice of the Revolution
        When the Communist regime began to disintegrate in November of 1989, she nearly missed the big moment.
        She had been in Hungary meeting with two Czechoslovak exiles, and she drove home on the night of Nov. 19. There she found a message from Mr. Havel saying he wanted to meet with her the next morning.
        Arriving at his apartment, she found him facing television cameras and photographers. Mr. Havel had called a news conference to mobilize the anti-Communist opposition, and he wanted to be sure Mrs. Klimova would be there to convey his message in American English.
        She sat down next to him and began interpreting. For the next several weeks, as the old order crumbled, hers was the English-language voice of the "Velvet Revolution," an expression that she coined.
        She is survived by a son, Vladimir Mlynar, and a daughter, Michaela Barlova, both of Prague.
      