
        Marie Blake, a scat singer and stride pianist whose renditions of show tunes and jazz entertained lovers of popular music for 40 years in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        For 22 years, Miss Blake was the featured performer at the Five Oaks Restaurant, 49 Grove Street, at Bleecker Street, and for 19 years before that, she entertained nearby at another piano bar, Marie's Crisis.
        On any given night, her repertory might range from cozy interpretations of Cole Porter rendered with a throaty purr, to a wake-'em-up "Rag Mop."
        Miss Blake had a following of hundreds, if not thousands, of people who believed that listening to a live musician at 3 A.M. in a smoke-filled cafe was a major part of what living in Manhattan was all about. Her banter and ad-libbed one-liners endeared her to two generations of club audiences. The Songs She Felt
        Miss Blake once said of her style: "When you sing a song, you have to sort of act it, too, to put it over to the people. You have to feel the song within you."
        Among her standards, some of which were released on the 1986 album "Ain't Nobody's Bizness!" were "Miss Otis Regrets," "Honeysuckle Rose," "It Don't Mean a Thing" and "A-Flat Boogie Woogie." She also played calypso music, blues, songs from Broadway shows and whatever else suited her mood.
        Miss Blake was born in Moorestown, N.J. She began her performing career at 16 during the Depression with a pickup band on Long Island, playing at country clubs, private parties and eventually college dances along the East Coast.
        Moving to Manhattan in the early 1940's, she gained recognition as a member of the Harlem stride piano school, whose headliners were Art Tatum and Fats Waller. She later appeared in the 52d Street clubs with the Duke Ellington and Count Basie bands, and she sang alongside stars like Billie Holiday.
        Miss Blake was the featured entertainer at the Cafe Society Club in midtown before moving her act to the Sheridan Square area, where she remained for the rest of her career.
      