
        Andrea Boroff Eagan, a journalist, educator, union founder and advocate for women, died on Tuesday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 49 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause of death was cancer, her family said.
        The interwoven themes of her career were social change, group action, women's rights, health and writing. Her causes grew from beliefs she formed as a campus activist in the turbulent protests of the 1960's.
        In a celebrated moment during the Columbia University protests in 1968, she and Richard Eagan were unofficially married in a seized building. A chaplain pronounced them "children of the New Age." They were later legally married by that same chaplain.  Feminist Advice for Girls
        Drawing on her personal experiences, Ms. Eagan wrote the first feminist advice book for teen-age girls, "Why Am I So Miserable, if These Are the Best Years of My Life?" (Lippincott, 1976). Later she wrote "The Newborn Mother: Stages of Her Growth" (Little, Brown, 1985), about the psychological changes in women after childbirth.
        She also wrote many newspaper and magazine articles, mostly on health and women. She was the editor of the National Women's Health Network Series for Pantheon Books and president of Healthright, a nonprofit organization.
        Ms. Eagan was active in local and national efforts for abortion rights and other health and women's issues. She taught about them at New York University and at La Guardia, Manhattan Community and Hunter Colleges.
        From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines. She was also a founding board member of the Writers Room, Manhattan office space for writers free of distractions.
        Ms. Eagan, who graduated from Columbia in 1969, reaffirmed her protest-era beliefs in a 1988 interview in The Washington Post: "The fact is, we were absolutely correct in what we perceived as being wrong. We were in error only in that we weren't successful."
        Her survivors include her mother, Dorothy Boroff of Manhattan; her husband, Richard, and two daughters, Molly and Daisy, the Tony-award winning child actress in "The Secret Garden."
      