
        Claire Huchet Bishop, an author of popular children's books and a leading opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Thursday at her home in Paris at the age of 94. She had resided in Manhattan for about 50 years.
        The cause of death was a hemorrhage of the aorta, said Mira Felner, a friend.
        Mrs. Huchet Bishop began her career following in the footsteps of her grandfather and mother, noted storytellers in her hometown of Le Havre, France. She carried on that tradition in Paris and the United States, then began transcribing her stories. Many Translations
        Her resulting books, which won several prizes, have appeared in a dozen languages, and some continue to be reprinted. Two were made into films. Her first book, "The Five Chinese Brothers" (Coward), is being translated to Spanish, 55 years after its original publication.
        The persecution of Jewish friends in France in World War II prompted the second theme of Mrs. Huchet Bishop's life. She began writing for children and adults on spiritual issues and became an advocate in efforts for religious and racial harmony.
        A Catholic, she was credited with helping win the deletion of anti-Semitic passages from the catechism with her analysis, "How Catholics Look at Jews" (Paulist Press, 1974). In a delegation visiting the Pope in the 1980's, she encouraged formal Vatican recognition of Israel.
        She also served as the president of the International Council of Christians and Jews in 1975-77 and of the Jewish-Christian-Fellowship of France from 1968 to 1981.
        Mrs. Huchet Bishop was born in Geneva. As a young woman, she discontinued her studies at the Sorbonne to devote more time to storytelling. In 1924 she opened France's first library for children, L'Heure Joyeuse (The Joyous Hour), and served as its director for five years.
        She married Frank Bishop, an American concert pianist, and moved to the United States. She was in charge of the children's reading room at the New York Public Library in the mid-1930's and was the children's book editor of Commonweal.
        After retelling a fable about Chinese quintuplets with superhuman powers, she decided to write down her version. That led to its publication and her career as an author of about 30 books. Two were runners-up for the Maybery Award, the highest honor for children's books, and she won other awards and citations.
        Often her books had serious themes. "Pancakes-Paris" (Viking, 1947) was about food scarcity in wartime France. "Twenty and Ten" (Viking, 1952) told the true story of Christian French youngsters who hid their Jewish playmates from the Nazis. Wonderworks made it into a film, "Miracle at Moreau," for PBS television.
        Her husband died in 1944.
      