
        Helen Hayes, the tiny actress whose big-hearted portrayals of Queen Victoria and other regal women helped make her one of the century's best-loved stars, died yesterday at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 92 and lived in Nyack.
        The cause was heart failure, said John Springer, her longtime press agent and friend. Miss Hayes was admitted to the hospital on March 9 suffering from congestive heart failure and irregular heartbeat.
        The human warmth and masterly acting technique that Miss Hayes brought to the stage and screen earned her many triumphs in her long career. She was one of the three great women of the American theater, with Katharine Cornell and Lynn Fontanne, in its glory days of the 1920's and 30's. Lights Dimmed on Broadway
        In tribute to the actress, who was often called the First Lady of the American theater, Broadway marquees were dimmed for one minute last night at 8 P.M.
        Miss Hayes's greatest stage success was the 1935 drama "Victoria Regina," in which she played the long-lived British monarch from girlhood to widowhood, aging visibly from act to act thanks to the makeup artist's skill, and her own.
        Her other stage triumphs included the title roles in "Mary of Scotland" (1933) and "Harriet" (1943), about Harriet Beecher Stowe. Her first great success was in "Coquette" in 1927, and her last was in the 1970 revival of "Harvey."
        Miss Hayes won an Academy Award for best actress for her first major film role, in "The Sin of Madelon Claudet" (1931). She went on to star in screen hits including "Arrowsmith" (1931) opposite Ronald Colman, "A Farewell to Arms" (1932) with Gary Cooper, and "Night Flight" (1933), in which she joined John Barrymore in an all-star cast. In 1971 she won a second Oscar, as best supporting actress, for "Airport."
        With her bright eyes and elfin smile, Miss Hayes's looks were highly winsome, and through sheer grace and stagecraft she was able to convey an impression of downright beauty when she chose. Although she was only 5 feet tall and weighed a mere 100 pounds, she could also create an aura of strength and weight and splendor if a role required one.
        "Tremulously magnificent" was the way Brooks Atkinson, as drama critic of The New York Times, described her opening-night performance in "Victoria Regina." "Since the Queen is dead, God rest her soul," he wrote, "let the cheers go to her actress, who deserves all the homage the town contains."
        And audiences did cheer, again and again over the years, partly because of Miss Hayes's skill and versatility -- she performed comedy and drama with equal skill -- and partly because her warmheartedness always put them on her side. An Active Role In Public Life
        Once Miss Hayes was established as a great star, she threw herself into many areas of public life. She was president of the American Theater Wing and the American National Theater and Academy and was the national chairwoman of women's activities for the March of Dimes. She was brought up in the Roman Catholic Church, was denied its sacraments after marrying the playwright Charles MacArthur -- who had been divorced -- and returned to the church after his death in 1956. In 1979, she received an award from the Catholic Interracial Council of New York for her work "to combat racial and religious bigotry and discrimination in our society."
        Her own view of her success and eminence was modest. "Without the compensation of glamour, I am hard put to explain the durability of my career and the loyalty of the audience," she wrote in "On Reflection," a volume of memoirs published in 1968.
        "Perhaps it is just identification," she went on. "I was once the typical daughter, then the easily recognizable wife, and then the quintessential mother. I seem always to have reminded people of someone in their family. Perhaps I am just the triumph of Plain Jane." Hard Work And Unworldliness
        Hers was also a triumph of hard work. Over the years she became the consummate theater professional, literally down to her toes: early in her career she had a nervous habit of making her body rigid when she felt insecure onstage, but she eventually trained herself to work off her tension less conspicuously, by simply curling her toes.
        Even after she became well known, Miss Hayes remained somewhat unsophisticated and shy in private, although her husband was a high-living sophisticate who cut a dashing figure in cafe society.
        When she was in her late 20's and already a stage veteran, the producer Jed Harris remarked after talking to her that she was ignorant, but he later said admiringly that "as an actress, her instinct was always perfect."
        Miss Hayes liked to tell stories about her own unworldliness. There was the time, for instance, when her husband took her to call on the writer Gertrude Stein and Miss Stein's friend Alice B. Toklas in their Paris home. Although the walls were decorated with fine paintings, Miss Hayes later recalled, "Nothing impressed me more than Alice B. Toklas's mustache."
        One long-ago day in Hollywood, as Miss Hayes told it, Clark Gable sent her "a mash note" -- evidently inviting her to an assignation -- but she ignored it. Years later he went backstage to see her, gave a dimpled smile and said, "You were too shy, weren't you, Helen?"
        Simplicity and virtue were Miss Hayes's by birthright, along with a yearning for the stage. Helen Hayes Brown was born on Oct. 10, 1900, in Washington, the only child of Francis Van Arnum Brown, a pork and poultry salesman, and Catherine Estelle Hayes Brown, a sometime actress who remained stagestruck all her life. Catherine Brown was a great-niece of an Irish-born singer, Catherine Hayes, who was known as "the Swan of Erin" in California in the Gold Rush days.
        Helen did her first acting barely after her days as a toddler, when she was known in her family as "the white mouse." It was a part in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" at the Holy Cross Academy, a Washington school that emphasized theatricals. She also did some singing at galas organized by her dancing school, Miss Minnie Hawke's School of Dance. When she was 6 years old, Lew Fields, a producer and star of musical comedies, heard one of her singing performances and was impressed.
        Mrs. Brown was delighted to encourage her daughter as a performer, and soon afterward Helen made her professional stage debut in a local stock production of "The Prince Chap." She also appeared in summer stock in subsequent years. Meeting Destiny At the Age of 8
        Deciding that her daughter was destined for an upper-crust life, Mrs. Brown took in washing to pay for French lessons to supplement the curriculum of the Sacred Heart Academy in Washington, where Helen was enrolled. Thus prepared, mother and daughter, then 8 years old, took the train to New York and waited outside Mr. Fields's office. Then destiny beckoned: he emerged, remembered Helen and signed her for a principal role in Victor Herbert's "Old Dutch" at the old Herald Square Theater.
        She went on to appear in several other stage productions overseen by Mr. Fields, and she began her film career in an early "quickie," "Jean and the Calico Doll," made in the old Vitagraph Studio in Brooklyn.
        At the age of 13 she was hired to perform with the renowned John Drew in a romantic comedy, "The Prodigal Husband," produced by Charles Frohman, which opened in 1914 at the old Empire Theater at 40th Street and Broadway. The play was undistinguished, but Miss Hayes shone.
        Mr. Frohman, one of the titans of the theater, went down with the Lusitania in 1915 and so was not able to quash the false rumors -- which circulated for years -- that Miss Hayes was actually his illegitimate daughter by Maude Adams, a stage star of the day. "No one knows where these canards get their start," Miss Hayes wrote in "On Reflection." "I only know that they are hard to finish off."
        After graduating from the Sacred Heart Academy back in Washington, she went on at the age of 20 to win her first star billing, for her part as a flapper in the play "Bab," which opened in New York in 1920. But as she later recalled, "On opening night, I gave one of those shrill, tense performances that became a hazard in my career whenever I was not in top form."
        She was crushed when the reviewer Heywood Broun criticized her acting, dismissing her as "cute," which is what the critics kept calling her for years. A columnist once said she suffered from "fallen archness."
        To forestall such complaints, Miss Hayes worked hard at improving her voice and delivery and tried to make her performances consistent. She also worked hard at seeming taller. "My posture became military," she later recalled. "I became the tallest five-foot woman in the world."
        By the mid-20's, she was highly popular as a light comedian, despite critical ups and downs, and she caught the eye of Mr. Harris, the producer, with her poignant performance in the 1926 revival of the James M. Barrie comedy "What Every Woman Knows."
        Years later, Mr. Harris reported, "Her subtlety and power astounded me; I thought she could do anything." He chose her for the leading role in the 1927 play "Coquette," about a well-born Southern girl, made pregnant by a hillbilly, who kills herself. Other theater people had doubts about casting Miss Hayes in the part, but when the curtain rang down on opening night, she received thunderous applause.
        "I have never seen anything quite like the ovation Miss Hayes received that night," Mr. Harris said later. After 16 curtain calls, "the applause was still as strong and solid as it had been when the curtain fell."  Emeralds, Peanuts And a Lifelong Love
        It was in a glittering New York salon that Miss Hayes, still rather shy, met Mr. MacArthur. In her best-selling 1990 autobiography, "My Life in Three Acts," written with Katherine Hatch, she recalled: "I picked up a glass of sherry to fit in and retreated to a secluded niche. Twenty minutes later, a good-looking fellow with curly brown hair and sparkling green eyes came over, maybe because he felt sorry for me sitting there all alone. He held out a small paper bag. 'Wanna peanut?' he asked. 'Thanks,' I said. He poured a few in my hand and said, 'I wish they were emeralds.' Right then and there I fell in love."
        (That story was told so often in later years that he once said, "There ought to be a statute of limitations on lovelorn remarks." And in 1945, returning from a sojourn in India, he dropped a sack of emeralds in her lap and said, "I wish they were peanuts.")
        The complex courtship that ensued -- Mr. MacArthur was married at the time -- came to a suspenseful culmination on the summer night in 1928 when his raffish play of newspaper life, "The Front Page," opened in New York. Miss Hayes was still appearing in "Coquette," but Mr. Harris closed the show for that day so she could watch the first night of "The Front Page."
        "I was nervous," Miss Hayes recalled years later. "I knew Charlie wouldn't marry me unless he had a hit."
        She took a seat in the balcony while the nervous Mr. MacArthur and his co-author, Ben Hecht, sat on a fire escape outside.
        "A few minutes into the first act I knew we were in," Miss Hayes wrote in "My Life." "The Tribune critic was chuckling and pounding his companion on the back. The audience was breaking up with laughter. I ran to the fire escape and shouted, 'It's a hit!' Whereupon Charlie opened his arms and asked, 'Will you marry me, Helen?' "
        Soon afterward his divorce came through, they wed (Harpo Marx sent the bride a Steinway piano crate filled with gardenias) and in all the rest of her life, Miss Hayes wrote, "I never loved another man."
        Miss Hayes gave birth to her daughter, Mary, in February 1930. Later that year she acted in "Mr. Gilhooley," a flop, and "Petticoat Influence," which was only a moderate success, as was "The Good Fairy" in 1931.
        Then Miss Hayes acted in her first Hollywood film, "The Sin of Madelon Claudet," a sob story that was notably teary even by Hollywood standards. She played Madelon, a woman who made degrading sacrifices so that her illegitimate son could become a doctor. Her First Queen: 'Mary of Scotland'
        When Miss Hayes returned to Broadway in "Mary of Scotland," she was such a box-office draw that for many months it was difficult to buy tickets; the Maxwell Anderson drama, about the 16th-century Mary Queen of Scots, was a tremendous hit. Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times: "Slight as she is in stature (and Mary was six feet tall), Miss Hayes raises herself to queendom by the transcendence of her spirit."
        She did even better in "Victoria Regina." Mr. Atkinson said her ability "to encompass in one evening the youth, maturity and venerability of one human being" was "a humbling personal triumph."
        After some disappointing roles, Miss Hayes was again the toast of Broadway in "Harriet." She also won praise for her acting in Anita Loos's robustly commercial "Happy Birthday" (1946), and, after appearing in Josh Logan's disappointing "Wisteria Trees" (1950), she came back strong in Mary Chase's farce "Mrs. McThing" (1952) and also won praise for her part in the revival of Thornton Wilder's "Skin of Our Teeth" that opened at the ANTA Theater (now the Virginia) in 1955.
        In her later years, she appeared on television and undertook repertory with the APA-Phoenix company in works ranging from Sheridan to Pirandello to George Kelly. She also had parts in several Walt Disney films, including "One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing" (1975).
        In "My Life" Miss Hayes recalled deciding to retire from the stage in 1972, while she was performing in Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" in Washington. "My career had begun in Washington and it would end there," she wrote. "I liked the idea of a circle being completed." An Epitaph Written Onstage
        Her stage career also inspired another valedictory touch. In 1990 she told an audience of female journalists in Hollywood about a scene in "Victoria Regina" in which a tough-looking man bursts through a police line at Queen Victoria's 90th-birthday celebration and yells: "Go it, old girl. You've done well."
        Miss Hayes told the journalists, "I've always meant, since I heard that line, to have it put on my tombstone."
        Along with her achievements, Miss Hayes had great sadnesses in her life. Her daughter, Mary, a novice actress, died of polio in 1949, and Miss Hayes then spoke and wrote movingly of her grief. In her 1990 book she wrote that her own husband, Mr. MacArthur, "set about killing himself" with drink after Mary's death. "It took seven years," Miss Hayes wrote, "and it was harrowing to watch."
        Earlier, in 1938, Miss Hayes and her husband adopted a son, James MacArthur, when he was 7 months old. He grew up to be a television actor, best known for the series "Hawaii Five-O." She is survived by Mr. MacArthur, of Palm Desert, Calif., and three grandchildren.
        During her career, Miss Hayes received Emmy, Tony and other awards for her stage performances, and honorary degrees from Smith College, Princeton, Columbia and Fordham Universities and other institutions. President Reagan and his wife, Nancy, presented her with the nation's highest civilian award, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1986. She was also a recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors in 1981.
        Miss Hayes was further honored by having various institutions and programs named for her, notably the annual Helen Hayes Awards, given for artistic achievement in the professional theater in Washington, and the Helen Hayes Theater in Manhattan. In 1955, the Fulton Theater on West 46th Street was named in her honor. When that theater, along with the Morosco, was torn down in 1982 to make way for the Marriott Marquis Hotel, angering many theater professionals and preservationists, Miss Hayes declined the hotel developers' request to name the new theater within the hotel for her. Instead, the Little Theater, an older theater on West 44th Street, was renamed the Helen Hayes. Performances Of a Lifetime
        In more than 60 years on stage and screen, Helen Hayes tried her hand at a constellation of roles, playing flappers and flibbertigibbets, matrons and monarchs. Here is a selected list of her credits.  Plays
        Bab 1920  We Moderns 1923  Caesar and Cleopatra 1925  What Every Woman Knows 1926, 1938, 1954  Coquette 1927  Mary of Scotland 1933  Victoria Regina 1935  Ladies and Gentlemen 1939  Twelfth Night 1940  Harriet 1943  Happy Birthday 1946  The Wisteria Trees 1950  Mrs. McThing 1952  The Skin of Our Teeth 1955, 1961  The Glass Menagerie 1948, 1956, 1961  Time Remembered 1957  A Touch of the Poet 1958  The School for Scandal 1966  Right You Are (If You Think You Are) 1966  We Comrades Three 1966  The Show-Off 1967  The Front Page 1969  Harvey 1970 Films
        The Sin of Madelon Claudet 1931  Arrowsmith 1931  A Farewell to Arms 1932  Night Flight 1933  What Every Woman Knows 1934  Vanessa, Her Love Story 1935  My Son John 1952  Anastasia 1956  Airport 1970 Television
        The Snoop Sisters 1972  Victory at Entebbe 1976  A Family Upside Down 1978  Murder Is Easy 1982  A Caribbean Mystery 1983  Murder With Mirrors 1985
      