
        Joyce Carey, a British stage actress known for her performances in plays by Noel Coward, died on Feb. 28 at a London hospital. She was 94 and lived in London.
        Miss Carey came from a theatrical family. Her mother, Lilian Braithwaite, was a star on the London stage, and her father, Gerald Lawrence, was a matinee idol who began his acting career as a juvenile in the company of Sir Henry Irving. In 1916, Miss Carey appeared as Princess Katherine in an all-female production of "Henry V." She made her professional debut in a revival of "Mr. Wu" and went on to play ingenue roles. In the 1920's she appeared in numerous Shakespeare plays and drawing-room comedies.
        Miss Carey first met Coward, the dominant artistic influence on her career, at a dress rehearsal for his play "The Vortex" in 1924, when she went backstage to compliment the cast. When Coward's "Easy Virtue" opened in New York the next year, Miss Carey played a leading role, which she repeated when the show went to London.
        In 1927 she appeared on Broadway in "The Road to Rome," and she spent the next seven years acting on the New York stage. She returned to London to perform in Coward's "Tonight at 8:30," and went on to act in a string of Coward plays over the next two decades, including "Present Laughter," "This Happy Breed," "Quadrille" and "Nude With Violin." She also appeared in several Coward films, among them "In Which We Serve," "Blithe Spirit," "The Astonished Heart" and, most memorably, as the manager of the train-station buffet in "Brief Encounter." Her other films included "The Way to the Stars" and "Cry, the Beloved Country." Nom de Plume
        In 1934 she took a small role in "Sweet Aloes," a comedy about a young woman who has a trouble-filled affair with a nobleman. The author, listed as Jay Mallory, was in fact Miss Carey. The play ran for more than a year.
        As she grew older, Miss Carey made a specialty of foolish aunts, disgruntled widows and elderly aristocrats, notably in Oscar Wilde's "Importance of Being Earnest" and "Ideal Husband.".
        Miss Carey, who never married, continued acting on the stage right through her 80's, appearing with Peter O'Toole in Shaw's "Man and Superman" and "Pygmalion." At 90, she played an elderly lady facing eviction in "No. 27," a BBC play written by Michael Palin. She also made one of her final stage appearances in the rarely performed Coward comedy "Semi-Monde."
        Miss Carey was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1982.
      