
        Judith Grad, a former counsel to the New York City Board of Ethics who in later life became a psychotherapist, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 68.
        The cause of death was heart failure, her family said.
        A native of Brooklyn and graduate of Brooklyn College, she put herself through New York University Law School at night by working as a legal secretary. She was an editor of the N.Y.U. Law Review and graduated first in her class. Joined Law Department
        During the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay, Miss Grad worked in the city's Law Department, rising to chief of the Opinions and Legislation Division. There, she helped draft the 1974 state law that repealed the requirement for corroboration of testimony in the prosecution of sex offenders.
        In 1978, Mayor Edward I. Koch recruited Miss Grad for the Board of Ethics. As counsel, she was involved in the investigation of city officials and employees for financial interests or private interests that were in conflict with the proper discharge of official duties. One case arising during her tenure involved charges of corruption against Donald R. Manes, the Queens Borough President who committed suicide in 1986. She retired after about 10 years in office.
        Prior to her ethics work, Miss Grad did pro bono work for Odyssey House, the drug and alcohol treatment organization in New York, and ran group counseling sessions for women there. This stirred her interest in psychotherapy, which she pursued after leaving public service. She trained with the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis and, at the time of her death, was treating patients as a psychotherapist.
        She became a board member of the Metropolitan Center for Mental Health, a psychiatric clinic on the Upper West Side that helps people unable to afford private treatment. She was board president of the Metropolitan Institute for Training in Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy, which is associated with the center.
        Miss Grad is survived by her sister, Charlotte Schiff-Jones of Manhattan.
      