
        Kate Reid, an actress whose hundreds of roles included starring onstage in "Death of a Salesman," in the film "Atlantic City" and in television episodes of "Dallas," died on Saturday at her home in Stratford, Ontario. She was 62.
        The cause of death was cancer, said her agent, Richard Schmenner.
        For more than 40 years she was staple of stage, movies and television in the United States, Canada and Britain. A 1984 New York Times profile said, "Kate Reid may not be a household name to the general public, but she is to the theater industry, which knows her as an actress who works constantly."
        Perhaps her most widely praised performance was as the wife of Dustin Hoffman's Willy Loman in the acclaimed revival of "Death of a Salesman" on Broadway in 1984 and for television in 1985.
        "In the problematic role of the mother, Kate Reid is miraculously convincing," Frank Rich wrote in The Times, adding that "she somehow melds affection with pure steel." Richard Schickel said in Time magazine that her performance was "in its way as awesome as Hoffman's." A String of Nominations
        Twice she was nominated for Tony Awards, first for co-starring with Alec Guinness in "Dylan" in 1964, then for her performance in "Slapstick Tragedy" on Broadway in 1965.
        She was also twice nominated for Emmy Awards, for playing Queen Victoria in "The Invincible Mr. Disraeli" in 1963, then Mary Todd Lincoln in "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" in 1964. Both were "Hallmark Hall of Fame" productions.
        In the 1981 film "Atlantic City," she won high marks for her portrayal of the reclusive, aging former beauty queen and sometime paramour of the small-time mobster played by Burt Lancaster.
        Ms. Reid, whose voice was described as cello-toned, once said: "I'm a chameleon. There is something of everything I play in me."
        Her stage work included many Shakespearean parts, especially at the Stratford Festival in Canada in the 1960's. Major Roles on Broadway
        In her Broadway debut in 1962, she was praised for her performance as Martha in the matinee cast of "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" In 1968, she co-starred in "The Price," by Arthur Miller. She played Big Mama in the 1974 revival of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" with Elizabeth Ashley, Keir Dullea and Fred Gwynne.
        Her films include "The Andromeda Strain" (1971), "A Delicate Balance" (1973) and "Equus" (1977). Her many television roles included recurring appearances in "Dallas" as Aunt Lil Trotter.
        Miss Reid was born in London and grew up in Toronto. She began acting while attending Havergal College, the University of Toronto and the Toronto Conservatory of Music, then formally studied acting under Uta Hagen at the Herbert Berghof Studio in New York City.
        Her marriages to Michael Sadlier and Austin Willis ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a son, Reid Willis of Edmonton, Alberta, and a daughter, Robin Willis of Manhattan.
      