
        Judith Rothschild, an abstract painter whose works were shown internationally and who left a multi-million-dollar estate to support contemporary American artists, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan and in Wellfleet, Mass.
        The cause was a stroke, her family said.
        Ms. Rothschild painted for 55 years, beginning as a teen-ager. Her works are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the National Gallery in Washington and the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Mass., among others.
        Her works were exhibited in many group shows and in several one-woman shows, including the first devoted to an American artist by the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow, in 1991. Legacy to Museums and Artists
        Ms. Rothschild left a collection that included her paintings and major works by Mondrian, Matisse, Brancusi, Gris and Picasso. The estate could bring up to $40 million, said its executor, Erik Stapper, and Harvey Miller, the trustee of the Judith Rothschild Foundation.
        Under her will, the proceeds are to be used to foster art by helping public galleries and museums buy works of contemporary American artists over the next 25 years.
        Ms. Rothschild was a founder and president of the American Abstract Artists Association. She also served on the boards of the American Federation of Arts, the MacDowell Colony, the New York Studio School and the Provincetown Fine Arts Work Center.
        A longtime colleague of Robert Motherwell, she joined him and a few other artists in forming a cooperative, the Long Point Gallery, in Provincetown on Cape Cod. A Youthful Talent
        Ms. Rothschild displayed a flair for art as a youngster. Because of her interests, her parents began collecting art, including some of the major pieces now part of her estate. Her father, Herbert, owned a furniture manufacturing company.
        Ms. Rothschild was born in New York City and graduated from Wellesley College. She studied painting at the Cranbrook Academy of Art, with Reginald Marsh at the Art Students League, and with Karl Knaths and Hans Hofmann.
        She worked in oils and did many collages. Her style ranged from Cubist imagery to symbolic use of astrology charts, timetables, stamps and railroad tickets.
        Her 23-year marriage to Anton Myrer, a novelist, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a brother, Robert, of Manhattan, and a sister, Barbara Michaels of Ossining, N.Y.
      