
        Dr. Alice Ettinger, who helped to bring new X-ray techniques to diagnose gastrointestinal illness to the United States and taught radiology for five decades at the Tufts University School of Medicine, died on April 14 at the Norwood Retirement and Nursing Home in Norwood, Mass. She was 93 years old.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said her nephew, Michael Roemer.
        Dr. Ettinger was a highly regarded teacher who developed the first radiology residency program at Tufts and practiced at the New England Medical Center in Boston for nearly 40 years.
        Alice Ettinger was born in Berlin on Oct. 8, 1899, four years after Wilhelm Konrad Roentgen discovered the X-ray. She received her medical degree from the Albert Ludwig University in Freiburg, Germany, in 1924 and went on to a residency at the Charite Hospital of Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin. She received intensive training in radiology from Dr. Hans Heinrich Berg, a pioneer in X-rays of the stomach and intestines. A 1932 Trip Is Crucial
        At the time, radiologists had a device, the fluoroscope, that used X-rays to cast an image of the bowel on a screen. But it did not leave a permanent record, and Dr. Berg designed and built a machine, the spot-film device, that captured the fluoroscopic image on film so it could be studied later.
        When Tufts asked Dr. Berg for the new device, he sent Dr. Ettinger off in 1932 with the machine in her luggage. Her arrival helped to launch modern gastrointestinal radiology in this country.
        She joined the faculty at Tufts that year and remained for the rest of her career. She became clinical professor of radiology in 1950 and was chairwoman of the radiology department from 1959 to 1965, when she became professor emeritus. In 1939 she was made roentgenologist-in-chief at the Boston Dispensary and the New England Medical Center Hospital, and in 1965 she became senior radiologist at the medical center.
        She continued as a clinician and teacher at Tufts until 1970, when at age 71 she became a consultant and director of student teaching, overseeing the radiology teaching program at the medical school until 1985 and teaching an elective course. For at least 13 consecutive years, she received the faculty teaching award from the graduating class at Tufts.
        Dr. Ettinger's efforts also led to one of the earliest formal training programs for X-ray technologists, at Northeastern University. Among the awards she received was the Gold Medal of the American College of Radiology.
        In addition to Mr. Roemer, of Yonkers, she is survived by a niece, Marianne Shoopak of Sunnyvale, Calif.
      