
        Patricia Peardon, the actress who created the central role in "Junior Miss" on Broadway, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 69.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said her daughter Christine Noel Cameron of Manhattan.
        Miss Peardon grew up in Allendale, N.J., and first began acting at the age of 8 on such radio programs as "Cavalcade of America" and "March of Time."  A Sassy Teen-Ager
        In 1941, when she was 17, she made her Broadway debut at the Lyceum Theater in the hit comedy "Junior Miss," after having been discovered in an audition by the play's director, Moss Hart. Miss Peardon originated the role of Judy Graves, a sassy but frequently muddled adolescent.
        Miss Peardon "is acting the central part of the younger sister like an inspired bear cub," said Brooks Atkinson in his review in The New York Times.
        While starring in the play, Miss Peardon appeared on the cover of Life on Dec. 11, 1941, the week after Pearl Harbor was bombed; it was too late for the magazine's editors to change the cover.
        In the early 1950's she acted in the television series "Johnny Jupiter," and in 1955, on Broadway, she played the spitfire younger daughter in the Tony Award-winning play "The Desperate Hours," acting with Paul Newman and Karl Malden.
        In the 1950's and 60's, Miss Peardon toured with Arnold Moss's Shakespeare Festival Players in "The Tempest," "Measure for Measure," "Twelfth Night," "King Lear" and "Love's Labour's Lost," and performed in the 1960's at the American Festival Theater at Stratford, Conn.  As a Sculptor
        In 1966, she began exhibiting and selling cast bronze sculptures, which were displayed three times in the windows at Tiffany & Company in Manhattan. Her work was also shown at many galleries, at Tufts University, and at the Metropolitan Opera House and Avery Fisher Hall.
        Miss Peardon was married three times: to Peter Kalischer, a broadcast journalist; to Peter Brandt Harmon, a writer, and to Richard Horner, a producer. The marriages ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Cameron, she is survived by another daughter, Anne Cameron of Albuquerque, N.M., and a grandson, Alexander Cameron Little.
      