
        Lucy Freeman, a reporter and an author whose early coverage of psychiatry and mental health for The New York Times led to wider reporting on the subject, died on Wednesday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 88.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her nephew David L. Schroedel.
        Ms. Freeman, one of the few women on the Times's reporting staff when she was hired in 1940, initially wrote light society features, but moved to breaking news with an award-winning story on the explosion of two ships hauling munitions in Galveston Bay, Tex., in 1947.
        By the late 1940's, some time after she began undergoing her own psychoanalysis, she persuaded editors to allow coverage of the growth of psychiatry and the preservation of Sigmund Freud's private papers.
        ''It was even more unusual because it was in an era in which psychology was not popular,'' said Nan Robertson, the author of ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men and The New York Times.'' ''It used to be that people poked fun at getting shrunk.''
        Over the course of four years, she reported on welfare, the stigma of mental illness and advancements in treatments for schizophrenic patients. She also studied mental health and welfare programs in the city hospital system.
        Her nonfiction books, ranging from detailed studies of Freud to those exploring sources of anger and anxiety, helped familiarize a popular audience with what had long been a hush-hush practice.
        Ms. Freeman's first book, ''Fight Against Fears,'' recounted her own experience as a psychoanalysis patient who struggled to overcome her shy, whispery voice and social fears. Published in 1951, the book was in print for 47 years.
        Ms. Freeman also wrote 77 other books, including mystery novels and memoirs.
        The first of four children born to a prominent New York family, Ms. Freeman was a member of the first graduating class at Bennington College in Vermont.
        She was hired by The New York Times in 1940 and would later describe the newsroom of the day as ''a sea of male reporters.''
        ''I hardly dared savor the glory. All those men,'' she wrote in a memoir, ''The Beloved Prison,'' (St. Martin's Press, 1989). ''I also dared the fleeting thought that among all these masculine forms perhaps I would find a husband.''
        She eventually married William M. Freeman, an editor who had fixed an error in a story she filed from Texas. The marriage lasted two years.
        Fond of low-cut dresses and high-heeled shoes, Ms. Freeman relished the attention she received from her male colleagues on the city desk, Ms. Robertson said. Mary Yost, Ms. Freeman's agent for more than 15 years, said that she digested academic papers like a scholar, but always preferred to write for a larger audience.
        She could at times ''appear to be an ingénue, an innocent,'' Ms. Yost said, but she also played a mean game of poker, loved throwing large parties at her apartment with a view of Central Park, and mixed as easily with jockeys as she did with actors and intellectuals.
        ''She enjoyed a popular audience for her work, and she wanted it in her social life, too,'' Ms. Yost said.
        Ms. Freeman is survived by her brother, Edward Greenbaum of Clearwater, Fla; her sister, Sue Polera of Las Vegas; her sister and brother-in-law, Sally and Warren Rosenberg of Scarborough, N.Y.; and numerous nieces and nephews.
      