
        Consuelo Velázquez, the songwriter who in 1941 created ''Bésame Mucho,'' a Latin hit that took on a life of its own worldwide, died on Jan. 22 in Mexico City. She was believed to have been 88.
        The cause was respiratory problems, her family told The Associated Press.
        ''Bésame Mucho'' is not so much an enduring standard as a global phenomenon. Translated into dozens of languages and performed by hundreds of artists, the song has been an emblem of Latin identity, an anthem of lovers separated by World War II and perennial grist for lounge singers everywhere.
        Recorded by artists both serious (the Beatles) and saccharine (Mantovani), ''Bésame Mucho'' has had more than two million performances on radio and television, according to BMI, the music publishing organization.
        The English version, written by Sunny Skylar in 1944, was a hit that year for the Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra, with vocals by Kitty Kallen and Bob Eberly.
        Ms. Velázquez was born in Ciudad Guzmán, Mexico, in 1916. (She sometimes gave the date as 1920.) Trained as a concert pianist, she wrote the original Spanish lyrics for ''Bésame Mucho'' when she was 25 and, as she liked to say, had never been kissed.
        The song's haunting melody, which Ms. Velázquez also wrote, is based on the aria ''Quejas, o la Maja y el Ruiseñor'' (''Plaints, or the Maiden and the Nightingale''), from the 1916 opera ''Goyescas,'' by the Spanish composer Enrique Granados.
        Ms. Velázquez's lyrics have a simple dramatic urgency: Bésame, bésame mucho,/Como si fuera esta noche la última vez (''Kiss me, kiss me a lot,/as if tonight were the last time'').
        The English lyrics (Bésame, bésame mucho,/Each time I cling to your kiss, I hear music divine) add a generous dollop of schmaltz.
        Among the strange bedfellows who have recorded the song are: Danny Aiello, Josephine Baker, Dave Brubeck, Vikki Carr, José Carreras, Charo, the Coasters, Nat King Cole, Xavier Cugat, Plácido Domingo, Bill Evans, the Flamingos, Connie Francis, Dexter Gordon, Chris Isaak, Harry James, Spike Jones, Diana Krall, Frankie Laine, Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme, Julie London, Trini Lopez, Dean Martin, Carmen McRae, Nana Mouskouri, Les Paul, Art Pepper, the Platters, Tito Puente, Artie Shaw and the 101 Strings Orchestra.
        Ms. Velázquez's other songs, none of which rivaled the success of ''Bésame Mucho,'' include ''Amar y Vivir'' (''To Love and to Live'') and ''Verdad Amarga'' (''Bitter Truth'').
      