
        Barbara Bel Geddes, a critically acclaimed stage, screen and television actress known for her work with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950's and, more recently, for her role as Miss Ellie, the matriarch of the fractious Ewing clan on the long-running nighttime soap opera ''Dallas,'' died on Monday at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me. She was 82.
        The Jordan-Fernald Funeral Home in Mount Desert, Me., confirmed the death to The Associated Press, giving no cause. The San Francisco Chronicle reported yesterday that Ms. Bel Geddes had died of lung cancer.
        On Broadway Ms. Bel Geddes was best known as the original Maggie the Cat in Tennessee Williams's ''Cat on Hot Tin Roof,'' which opened in 1955. She also appeared in ''The Moon Is Blue'' (1951) and ''Silent Night, Lonely Night'' (1959). Her film credits include Hitchcock's ''Vertigo'' (1958); ''Caught'' (1949), directed by Max Ophüls; and ''Panic in the Streets'' (1950), directed by Elia Kazan.
        On television Ms. Bel Geddes starred in several episodes of Hitchcock's weekly series ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents'' during the late 1950's and early 1960's. In 1980 she won the Emmy Award for best actress in a dramatic series for her role on ''Dallas.''
        Blond, soft-spoken and slightly plump as a young woman, Ms. Bel Geddes projected a resolute, even steely, intelligence beneath her cherubic exterior. It was a quality Hitchcock used to great effect, notably in ''Vertigo,'' in which Ms. Bel Geddes played Midge, the steadfast, unglamorous ex-fiancée of Jimmy Stewart, who watches his painful descent into obsession and madness.
        Hitchcock used her memorably again in ''Lamb to the Slaughter,'' widely considered one of the finest episodes of ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents.'' Broadcast in the spring of 1958, it starred Ms. Bel Geddes as a wife who murders her philandering husband by bludgeoning him with a frozen leg of lamb. When detectives show up to investigate the death, the murder weapon is nowhere to be found. Ms. Bel Geddes, smiling a tiny, knowing smile, sits them down to a home-cooked meal.
        Barbara Bel Geddes was born in New York on Oct. 31, 1922. Her father was Norman Bel Geddes, the architect and stage designer. She made her Broadway debut in 1941 in the forgettable play ''Out of the Frying Pan.'' She went on to win a Theater World Award in 1946 for her performance in ''Deep Are the Roots,'' which Kazan directed.
        Soon afterward, Ms. Bel Geddes went to Hollywood, where she starred opposite Henry Fonda in her first film, ''The Long Night'' (1947). Although she was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance as Katrin Hanson, the daughter of Norwegian immigrants in ''I Remember Mama'' (1948), Ms. Bel Geddes made relatively few movies, working primarily in theater and television. Her other film credits include ''Blood on the Moon'' (1948), ''Fourteen Hours'' (1951) and ''The Five Pennies'' (1959).
        Ms. Bel Geddes's greatest critical acclaim came as Maggie, the restless young wife in a decaying family of Mississippi planters in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.'' Reviewing her performance in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson called it ''vital, lovely and frank.''
        Her other Broadway credits include ''The Living Room'' (1954), by Graham Greene; ''The Sleeping Prince'' (1956), by Terence Rattigan; and ''Mary, Mary'' (1961), by Jean Kerr.
        Ms. Bel Geddes appeared on ''Dallas'' in two installments, the first from 1978 to 1984, when she retired after heart surgery. She was replaced as Miss Ellie by Donna Reed, who sued to retain the role after the show's producers reinstated Ms. Bel Geddes in 1985. Ms. Reed lost her bid, and Ms. Bel Geddes remained in the role until 2000.
        Ms. Bel Geddes's first marriage, to Carl Schreuer, an engineer, ended in divorce. Her second husband, Windsor Lewis, a theater director, died before her. She is survived by a daughter, Susan, from her first marriage, and a daughter, Betsy, from her second.
        In addition to acting, Ms. Bel Geddes also worked as a professional artist. She wrote and illustrated two children's books, ''I Like to Be Me'' (Viking, 1963) and ''So Do I'' (Arbor House, 1972).
        Looking back on her career, Ms. Bel Geddes expressed amusement that she was so often cast as patricians. ''They're always making me play well-bred ladies,'' she told People magazine in 1982. She added, ''I'm not very well bred, and I'm not much of a lady.''
        Correction:  August 13, 2005, Saturday  An obituary of the actress Barbara Bel Geddes on Thursday misstated the year of her final appearance on the television show ''Dallas.'' It was 1990, not 2000. A picture caption referred incorrectly to the character she played. It was Miss Ellie, not Ms. Ellie.
      