
        Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1 at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.
        Mrs. Malkin apparently died in her sleep, said Eric Holzenberg, the director of the Grolier Club of New York, the bibliophilic organization, which announced the death.
        Mrs. Malkin, who signed her many book reviews in the magazine with just her initials, was known to generations of rare-book dealers and collectors simply as Mam.
        With her husband, Solomon, she ran AB, as it was fondly known in the trade, from 1953 to 1972. (The initials stood for Antiquarian Bookman, the journal's original title.) In later years, Mrs. Malkin became an internationally recognized rare-book collector, amassing a library of historical books on dance notation that is considered the finest in the world.
        In the decades after World War II, the mail-order secondhand-book trade was a flourishing enterprise, and AB, founded in 1948, was its chief avenue of communication. Eagerly awaited, greedily pored over and tenderly dog-eared, the journal was almost certainly the only bound artifact that any of its 10,000 subscribers -- rare-book dealers, librarians and private collectors -- would have ever considered marking up.
        For 19 years, the Malkins ran the magazine from an office in downtown Newark where every horizontal surface, and many not-quite-horizontal ones, boiled over with centuries of books, papers and pamphlets. Sol. Malkin, who with the typographic exactitude of a cataloguer always spelled his nickname with a period, was AB's owner, editor and publisher. Mrs. Malkin was the administrative assistant, copy editor, proofreader, book critic and maker of coffee, which, for Mr. Malkin, had to be several parts cognac.
        Thick, digest-sized and printed on very cheap paper, AB offered trade news, gossip and articles about book collecting. But it was for the classified ads that the journal was prized. Through its Books Wanted and Books for Sale departments, AB united far-flung collectors with dealers around the world, any one of whom just might happen to have a long-sought title in stock. (''Wanted: Any books on horse named Cruiser by Rary, Brown or others, ca. 1870?'' a listing in the issue of Jan. 3, 1953, read.)
        Some of the ads catered to highbrow tastes. In December 1953, a dealer in Milwaukee offered an early edition of Gertrude Stein's 1925 novel, ''The Making of Americans,'' signed by Alice B. Toklas, for $12.50.
        Others spoke of baser needs. ''Wanted: Spicy pulps of the 30's. Pep, Ginger, Paris Nights, Spicy Detective, Tattle Tales, etc.,'' a 1965 ad read.
        Still others were simply bewildering, like this one, from March 22, 1965: ''Wanted: Anything on 'raining' of unusual objects -- frogs, toads, fish, beads, etc. -- falling or 'raining' from the sky.''
        Mary Ann O'Brian was born on March 13, 1913, in Altoona, Pa. She earned an undergraduate degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1937, married a professor and moved with him to New York. The marriage ended in divorce, and she took a secretarial job with R.R. Bowker, then the parent company of Publishers Weekly, the book-industry trade magazine.
        In 1948, Bowker started publishing Antiquarian Bookman, which had begun as a column in Publishers Weekly, as a stand-alone magazine, with Mr. Malkin as editor. The Malkins married around this time. Mr. Malkin bought Antiquarian Bookman in 1953, changing its name in 1967.
        Mr. Malkin, who sold AB in 1972, died in 1986. Faced with rising competition from online used-book sellers, the magazine ceased publication in 1999. Today the Web site abbookman.com, owned by Intergalactic Inc., an Arizona used-bookstore chain that bought the rights to the name, offers information for dealers and collectors but does not sell books directly.
        Mrs. Malkin leaves no immediate survivors. Her collection of dance books is now housed at Penn State. The university is also the distributor of a book she wrote with several colleagues, ''Dancing by the Book: A Catalogue of Books, 1531-1804, in the Collection of Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin.'' Published privately in 2003, the book can be obtained in very clean copies, with hard covers (no dust jacket) and many handsome illustrations.
      