
        Joyce Wein, a former vice president of the company that produced the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals and numerous other events, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital on the Upper East Side. She was 76 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company, Festival Productions, which was founded by her husband, George Wein
        Mrs. Wein was a biochemist but became professionally involved in music through her marriage in 1959 to Mr. Wein, the founder of the Newport festivals and the chief executive of Festival Productions. Mrs. Wein was a vice president of the company from shortly after it was established in the early 1960's to the late 1990's, and remained involved in its operations until her death.
        Besides the Newport events, Festival Productions presents the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, the JVC Jazz Festival in New York and many other events worldwide. Mrs. Wein had a hand in all of them but had especially close ties with the folk festival, which her husband founded in 1959. For several years beginning in 1963, the festival was run by the nonprofit Newport Folk Foundation, which Mr. and Mrs. Wein established with the folk singer Pete Seeger and his wife, Toshi.
        Joyce Alexander was born in Boston on Oct. 21, 1928, and majored in chemistry at Simmons College there. She was the jazz columnist for the Simmons student newspaper and Mr. Wein was an aspiring jazz pianist when they met at a jazz concert in Boston in 1947.
        Mrs. Wein was a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, a charitable organization, and established the Joyce and George Wein Professorship Fund in African-American Studies at Boston University and the Alexander Family Endowed Scholarship Fund at Simmons.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Eugenia Manning of San Francisco and Theodora McLaurin of Hingham, Mass.
        Correction:  August 19, 2005, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Joyce Wein, who worked on music festivals and charities with her husband, George, misstated the name of one of her projects. It is the George and Joyce Wein Chair in African-American Studies at Boston University, not the George and Joyce Wein Professorship Fund.
      