
        Mo Mowlam, the earthy, straight-talking politician who as Britain's Northern Ireland secretary helped negotiate the Good Friday peace settlement in 1998, died Friday morning at a hospice in Canterbury, her family said. She was 55.
        Unsteady on her feet at times as a result of radiotherapy treatments for a brain tumor discovered in 1997, Ms. Mowlam fell and hit her head two weeks ago, slipping into a coma from which she never recovered. She left instructions that she not be kept alive artificially if there was no hope of improvement, her family said, and doctors removed her artificial feeding tube earlier this week.
        Ms. Mowlam, who retired from politics four years ago, was an unusually blunt and unusually popular member of Parliament. After the radiation treatments caused her hair to fall out, she regularly flung her wig off during negotiations and news conferences, complaining that it made her head itch.
        ''I hate the bloody things and have to carry two around with me because I kept losing one,'' she once said.
        During the 1998 Labor Party conference, Prime Minister Tony Blair referred to her as ''our Mo'' in passing during his keynote speech, only to have the audience unexpectedly give her a prolonged standing ovation. Although the prime minister joked about it, she later said she thought that he resented being upstaged and felt threatened by her popularity.
        In any case, the two fell out politically. He removed her from her Northern Ireland post against her will in 1999, shuffling her to a less important job in the Cabinet Office, and she eventually quit politics, growing increasingly disillusioned with his New Labor government.
        But as tributes poured in from across the political spectrum on Friday, the prime minister called Ms. Mowlam ''one of the shrewdest political minds I ever encountered'' and said she was ''great company, utterly irreverent, full of life and fun.''
        ''It is no exaggeration to say she transformed the politics not just of Northern Ireland itself but crucially of relations between the Republic of Ireland and the United Kingdom,'' he said, ''and it was this transformation that created the culture in which peacemaking could flourish.''
        Marjorie Mowlam was born in 1949 and brought up in Coventry. She had a tough childhood -- her family was invariably short of money, and her father was an alcoholic. She came to politics late, at the age of 38, after working as a college lecturer.
        She decided to run for Parliament just five days before the deadline to register as a candidate for the 1987 election and won a seat in Redcar, on the North Sea coast. Immensely charismatic, bawdy, unpretentious and funny, she became an integral part of Mr. Blair's rejuvenated Labor Party, helping lead it into power in the 1997 general election.
        She was quickly made Northern Ireland secretary, with a mission to help effect a peace settlement for the warring province. She visited paramilitary prisoners at Maze Prison to win them over to the idea of peace.
        But even as she worked hard to build good relations with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, she alienated unionists, who want it to remain united with Britain and who accused her of being too sympathetic to the republican cause.
        She complained that she was increasingly marginalized during the talks that eventually led to the peace agreement, saying she was no more than ''a tea lady.'' After she was removed from the Northern Ireland post, her criticism of the government grew louder. When she finally left politics, she said it had become ''harder and harder to defend what the Labor government is doing.''
        In 2002 she published a memoir, ''Momentum,'' in which, among other things, she stated that Mr. Blair and Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer, were not getting along.
        She is survived by her husband, Jon Norton, and two stepchildren.
        Her plain-spokenness extended to shouting and swearing at intransigent politicians from both sides in Northern Ireland, invariably men, and invariably tough combatants. She was once overhead saying to Gerry Adams, the leader of Sinn Fein, ''Bloody well get on and do it; otherwise I'll head-butt you!''
      