
        Toni Trent Parker, an author who helped advance the cause of books featuring African-American children, died on Thursday at her home in Stamford, Conn. She was 58.
        The cause was a brain tumor, her family said.
        To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore! Guide to Great African American Children's Books.'' The guides, first published in 1998 by John Wiley & Sons, are available at www.blackbooksgalore.com.
        Children's picture books featuring or including minority children were largely absent before the 1960's, when the first few were published and authors and other advocates began criticizing what they viewed as prejudice in the publishing industry, said Leonard S. Marcus, a book reviewer for Parenting magazine.
        By promoting sales, raising awareness and adding to the literature, Ms. Parker helped bring more books with black children into the mainstream, he said.
        In 1998 she established Kids Cultural Books, a nonprofit organization that holds book festivals around the country to bring multicultural books and their authors together with children. The organization received a grant from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation in 2000.
        Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children. Her most recent title, ''Sienna's Scrapbook'' (Chronicle Books, 2005), portrays an young African-American girl and her family visiting black cultural and historical sites in the United States.
        Toni Trent Parker was born in 1947 in Winston-Salem, N.C. She earned a bachelor's degree in history from Oberlin College in 1970, and did graduate work at the University of California, Berkeley.
        Ms. Parker is survived by her husband, Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, who is on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; their daughters, Christine, Kathleen and Jennifer, all of Stamford; her mother, Viola Trent of Greensboro, N.C.; and two sisters, Kay Holloway of Potomac, Md., and Judy Scales-Trent of Buffalo, N.Y.
      