
        Lea Nikel, an abstract painter who was one of Israel's most esteemed artists, died on Sept. 10 at her home in Moshav Kidron, Israel. She was 86.
        The cause was cancer, her nephew Yehuda Bock said.
        Ms. Nikel devoted a career of more than 50 years to a form of expressionistic abstraction sometimes called lyrical abstraction. Painting with a brusque, generous touch and favoring high-keyed colors, she created buoyant compositions consisting of rough-edged blocks of color and scribbly, calligraphic lines that together convey a sense of imaginative excitement and urgent sensuousness.
        Ms. Nikel was born Lea Nikelsberg in Zhitomir, Ukraine, in 1918, and emigrated with her parents to British Mandatory Palestine in 1920. She began studying with the painter Chaim Gliksberg in Tel Aviv in 1935. A decade later, she studied with Yehezkel Streichman and Avigdor Stematsky, who started their own school because they thought Israeli art schools were too conservative.
        Ms. Nikel lived and worked in Paris from 1950 to 1961. She had her first solo exhibition at Chemerinsky Art Gallery in Tel Aviv and her first solo show in Paris at Galerie Colette Allendy in 1957. In 1995, the Tel Aviv Museum of Art presented a career retrospective exhibition of her paintings.
        From 1961 to 1977, Ms. Nikel led a peripatetic life. She lived on Macdougal Street in Greenwich Village for a year in the early 60's; in Rome for three years at the end of the 60's; and, from 1973 to 1977, at the Chelsea Hotel in New York. After that she remained in Israel.
        Ms. Nikel was included in numerous international group exhibitions, including the Venice Biennale in 1964. In 1995 she received the Israel Prize for painting and in 1997 was made a Chevalier of Arts and Letters by the French minister of culture.
        Ms. Nikel continued to paint until just a few days before her death, and it is a measure of the continued vitality of her late work that the Sommer Gallery in Tel Aviv, which specializes in young and emerging artists, mounted an exhibition of new works by her in 2002.
        Ms. Nikel is survived by her husband, Sam Leiman; her daughter, Ziva Hanan; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren, all of Moshav Kidron; and a sister, Sara Bock, of Rockaway Beach, Queens.
      