
        Kathryn O. Scott, a pioneer in the meticulous art of textile conservation whose accomplishments included doing Napoleon's personal laundry, died on Oct. 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94.
        Her death was confirmed by Mary Ballard, the senior textile conservator at the Smithsonian Center for Materials Research and Education and a former protégée. Ms. Scott leaves no immediate survivors.
        Ms. Scott, who almost single-handedly created the field in the United States in the decades after World War II, was one of the country's most sought-after freelance textile conservators -- and not merely because she was for years the country's only freelance textile conservator. Among her clients were the Metropolitan Museum of Art; the Museum of Modern Art; the Smithsonian Institution; Colonial Williamsburg; Franklin D. Roosevelt's home in Hyde Park, N.Y.; Sagamore Hill, Theodore Roosevelt's home in Oyster Bay, N.Y.; and many private collectors.
        From 1964 to 1990, she was adjunct professor of conservation at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
        Until the 1950's, museums wanting to restore a soiled or ripped textile typically resorted to a quick fix in which the damaged portion was patched or sheared away. But as anyone who has tried to iron a Qiana shirt knows, for any given textile, the wrong treatment can have disastrous consequences. For the conservator, antique textiles pose particular challenges.
        ''The fibers are too fragile and they react differently,'' Ms. Ballard said in a telephone interview on Wednesday. ''You can't put them in the washing machine; you can't use normal detergents; you can't handle them or mount them the way you would a modern piece.''
        Textile conservation is a job of clean hands and minute advances, where fabric is mended or re-embroidered or tenderly vacuumed through a screen a fraction of an inch at a sitting.
        ''You don't jump in with both feet,'' Ms. Scott told a newspaper interviewer early in her career. ''You work on one-eighth of an inch at a time. Then, if you make a mistake on one-eighth of an inch, it can always be corrected.''
        A textile can be a garment, of course, but it can also be a length of lace, a tapestry, a flag, a quilt or a doll, and a conservator must know how to handle all of these. Animal fibers like wool and silk behave differently from vegetable fibers like cotton and linen, and, confronted with a piece of old cloth, the conservator must first determine its composition. (One method is to set the piece on fire: different fibers give off characteristic odors when burned. Conservators discourage this.)
        Textile conservators know things civilians do not, for instance, that the larvae of the clothes moth are fond of tomato-juice, beer and beef-gravy stains, while adult moths prefer the cholesterol in the ring around the collar of a wool jacket. At bibulous parties, conservators are called upon to salvage the tablecloth. (Blot gently with paper towel, then soak in white vinegar and a little clear dishwashing liquid.) All this knowledge Ms. Scott acquired, largely on her own.
        Kathryn Olivia Scott, known as Kay, was born on Sept. 1, 1911, in Galesburg, Ill., and came to New York in the early 1930's. Hoping to be an artist, she studied at the Art Students League and later found work hand-painting linen neckties for John Wise, a textile dealer and collector. Shortly afterward, Mr. Wise left a box of pre-Columbian textile fragments on her doorstep with a request to preserve them.
        There was nowhere to study textile conservation then, so Ms. Scott sought out archaeologists, textile scientists and museum curators and asked questions. It took her three years to restore the fragments, but by the time she finished, she had acquired a profession. She also acquired more dental and surgical tools than the average dentist or surgeon.
        Ms. Scott was a master of pragmatic improvisation. In 1957 she had to replace a section of missing fringe on a 1,700-year-old Peruvian mantle owned by Herbert Hoover. The original fringe was made of twisted multicolored yarn. After having a chemical laboratory dye yarn exactly to match, Ms. Scott replicated the twist by spinning it with an electric drill.
        To restore an upholstered Queen Anne chair for Colonial Williamsburg, she dyed white silk thread with coffee to mimic the natural aging of the original white embroidery.
        In one of her most thrilling assignments, Ms. Scott was hired by a private collector to clean Napoleon's discolored white dress pants, vest and a nightshirt with French cuffs. She soaked the garments in a diluted solution of hydrogen peroxide, repeating the process 14 times until the discoloration was completely gone.
        The project accorded Ms. Scott a title to which few can lay claim. ''You might say,'' she told an interviewer some time afterward, ''I was his laundress.''
      