
        Betty Leslie-Melville, who called herself ''a total giraffe junkie'' and proved it not only by helping save a giraffe breed from extinction, but also by living amid the animals in a home called Giraffe Manor, died on Sept. 23 at a hospice in Baltimore. She was 78.
        The cause was complications of dementia, said her husband, Vice Adm. George Peabody Steele.
        In the 1970's, Ms. Leslie-Melville helped snatch a patch of land near Nairobi, in Kenya, before developers could turn it into subdivisions, and she made it a sanctuary for the Rothschild giraffe, a subspecies.
        The population, once around 120, is now 300 to 400 in Kenya, and perhaps 500 in all of Africa, partly because of her efforts and those of her husband at the time, Jock Leslie-Melville, who died in 1984. The couple helped save part of 18,000 acres as natural habitat. They also helped set up giraffe preserves in four national parks in Kenya.
        Others of the resurgent population of Rothschild giraffes, which are characterized by white legs and five horns, live in the Giraffe Center surrounding Giraffe Manor, near Nairobi. The Leslie-Melvilles were among the earliest conservationists to raise a wild giraffe.
        Ms. Leslie-Melville founded a conservation organization called the African Fund for Endangered Wildlife USA, and Mr. Leslie-Melville, a Kenyan citizen, started a separate branch for Kenya. They began the organization by bringing five giraffe babies to their own preserve.
        Mr. and Ms. Leslie-Melville collaborated on about 10 books on conservation topics and opened their center to visits from tens of thousands of local schoolchildren; most of them had never seen many of their own country's threatened species.
        Ms. Leslie-Melville made their home into an inn after Mr. Leslie-Melville died. Giraffes regularly poke their noses into the windows of upper-floor guest rooms. A double room with lunch now goes for $595 a night, and much of the revenue is used for the conservation of giraffes and other species, including the black rhinoceros and the African elephant. The inn is now run by Rick Anderson, Ms. Leslie-Melville's son from her first marriage, to Lloyd Anderson, which ended in divorce.
        In addition to her husband and son, Ms. Leslie-Melville is survived by her daughter, Dancy Bruce Mills of Glen Arm, Md., and five grandchildren. Another son, McDonnell Marshall Bruce, died in 2004.
        Betty McDonnell was born in Baltimore and eventually moved back there in the 1980's. She attended Johns Hopkins University, ran a nursery school with her sister and worked as a fashion model. She first went to Africa in 1958 to visit a friend who was a member of the White Sisters, a Roman Catholic religious order.
        She fell in love with the continent. ''You go there, and it's like you're in a Technicolor world,'' she said in a 1994 profile of her in The Baltimore Sun. ''It's magic.''
        She persuaded her second husband, Danny Bruce, to move to Kenya. He ran a nonhunting safari business; their marriage ended in divorce.
        She then married Mr. Leslie-Melville, who had been raised in Africa and was the grandson of a Scottish earl. They bought the stone manor house that became the inn.
        Their giraffe-centered vacations became a staple of travel writers, and visits by Mick Jagger and Jerry Hall, Marlon Brando, Brooke Shields and other celebrities hardly hurt. In a particularly imaginative stroke, the Leslie-Melvilles named a warthog that lived on their property Cronkite, after Walter Cronkite, the CBS news anchor, and wrote a book about the animal.
        They were also adept at raising money through receptions and dinners, often inviting guests to come in formal or safari clothing, or some combination of the two.
        At one such event, the couple were auctioned off as a maid and butler. The buyer ordered them to serve a dinner party at his home.
        Mr. and Ms. Leslie-Melville went there expecting to prepare loin of lamb, only to discover that they had misunderstood their boss for the evening. The main course was loin of lion.
        They protested mightily, but finally prepared the meal. They did not partake.
      