
        Sara Levi-Tanai, the choreographer and founding director of Inbal Dance Theater, whose pioneering mix of Yemenite Jewish traditions and contemporary dance long made it Israel's premier dance company, died on Monday in Ramat Gan, Israel. She was 94.
        Her death was announced by Chaim Shiran, Inbal's director general, The Jerusalem Post said.
        Judith Brin Ingber, an American expert on Jewish dance history, said that Ms. Levi-Tanai had been living until recently in the Tel Aviv suburb of Kfar Saba before transferring to a hospital in Ramat Gan.
        Founded in 1950, Inbal caused a sensation on its early tours in Europe and in the United States largely because the Yemenite rituals and folk customs Ms. Levi-Tanai theatricalized so vibrantly were a revelation to both Jewish and non-Jewish audiences in the West. So strong was this impact that the American choreographers Jerome Robbins and Anna Sokolow went to Israel several times in the early 1950's to help Ms. Levi-Tanai professionalize the company further.
        At its United States debut in New York in January 1958, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, described a staging of a Yemenite wedding and Ms. Levi-Tanai's biblical dance dramas as ''retold almost as ritualistic re-experiencing'' and added, ''The greatness of Inbal today, as of our own modern dance of yesterday, is its 'soul' and not its forms.''
        Unlike the Jewish population that was airlifted to Israel in 1949 from Yemen, its centuries-old home, Ms. Levi-Tanai was descended from Yemenite Jews who lived for generations under Ottoman rule near Tel Aviv and in Jerusalem. She was born in 1911 in Jerusalem.
        In founding Inbal, which means ''tongue of the bell'' in Hebrew, she set out to have the Yemenite Jewish heritage resonate both as part of Israeli culture as a whole and as a distinctive heritage to be preserved.
        As many observers pointed out, Ms. Levi-Tanai was not trained in dance. As a child, she was placed in an orphanage by her father after her mother and sisters died in an epidemic during World War I. She later attended a boarding school in the Shfeya Youth Village, studied music and trained to be a kindergarten teacher.
        During World War II she organized holiday pageants at the Kibbutz Ramat Hakovesh. Teaching at the Tel Aviv Seminary for Music Teachers in 1948 and 1949, she joined forces with the Israeli composer Ovadia Tuvia and the Yemenite young people who sang in his chorales. Earlier she had studied at Habimah, the famed theater company, and married Israel Tanai. When she met the new immigrants from Yemen, she used the singers as the nucleus for the Sara Levi-Tanai Company in 1949, which became Inbal.
        With her strong musical and theatrical values as well as an innate poetic sense, she knew how to make a signature piece like ''Yemenite Wedding'' a classic that remained in the repertory on the company's later tours, including New York in 2002.
        In 1991 she was ousted as artistic director of Inbal, and the company was eventually made part of a larger organization, the Inbal Interdisciplinary Ethnic Center. Ms. Levi-Tanai then toured with a program, ''Who Kissed Me,'' in which she joined two singer-dancers as a narrator. She was the subject of a documentary, ''Bare Feet.''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
        ''Sara used her artistry to create a unique contemporary dance company,'' Ms. Ingber, the dance historian, said on Wednesday. ''The magic of the Yemenite Jewish performers is their multi view. They are wonderful dancers, singers, drummers. That is how they celebrate and that is what Sara brought to the stage.''
      