
        The Rev. Mother Benedict Duss, who in the late 1940's helped found the first monastery for cloistered Benedictine nuns in the United States but stepped down as its abbess in 1995 amid a Vatican investigation into charges that it was being run in an authoritarian, cultlike manner, died Oct. 2 at the Abbey of Regina Laudis in Bethlehem, Conn. She was 94.
        The death was confirmed by Sister Angèle Arbib, a spokeswoman for the abbey. At her death, Mother Benedict was abbess emerita there.
        An American who trained as a surgeon in France before World War II, Mother Benedict helped found the abbey in 1947. Situated on 400 acres, it is home to a contemplative community of 37 women who farm, run a dairy and practice traditional crafts like weaving, bookbinding and ironworking.
        The community, whose name is Latin for Queen of Praise, follows the Benedictine principles of prayer, hospitality and stewardship of the land. It is also famous for perpetuating the sacred tradition of Gregorian chant, which the women of Regina Laudis sing seven times daily and once each night. The abbey has released two recordings on compact disc, ''Women in Chant'' (1996) and ''Recordáre'' (2000), and a textbook, ''A Gregorian Chant Master Class'' (2002).
        Mother Benedict's efforts to start the abbey inspired a popular Hollywood movie, ''Come to the Stable'' (1949). With a script by Clare Boothe Luce, the film stars Loretta Young and Celeste Holm as two young nuns trying to build a children's hospital.
        Mother Benedict was born Vera Duss on Nov. 21, 1910, in Pittsburgh. When she was 3, she and her brother moved with their mother to France. In 1936, she earned a medical degree from the University of Paris. That year, she entered Notre Dame de Jouarre, a Benedictine abbey outside Paris, taking the name Sister Benedict.
        During the war, she quietly continued her work as a community doctor. With Nazi officers occupying the abbey, she spent days living in near seclusion in its bell tower to escape their notice. After Allied forces liberated the abbey in August 1944, she resolved to start a Benedictine community in the United States. In 1946, she arrived in New York with Mother Mary Aline Trilles de Warren, a French nun.
        The women started the Regina Laudis monastery in an abandoned factory on land donated by a Connecticut industrialist. In 1976, the Vatican elevated the monastery to an abbey; Mother Benedict was named its first abbess.
        In the early 1990's, the Vatican began investigating accusations that Mother Benedict and the Rev. Francis J. Prokes, a longtime spiritual adviser to Regina Laudis, were running the abbey in a manner some critics described as cultlike.
        The abbey made no public comment on the charges at the time and, through Sister Angèle, declined to comment last week.
        In 1994, Father Prokes was removed as the community's spiritual adviser. ''That was a discernment of Rome, and this community has the greatest respect for that discernment,'' Sister Angèle said in a telephone interview last week.
        The next year, Mother Benedict stepped down from the day-to-day administration of the abbey, becoming abbess emerita, Sister Angèle said.
        Mother Benedict, who continued to live at the abbey until her death, leaves no immediate survivors.
      