
        Dorothy Wegman Raphaelson, who 80 years ago in chiffon, silk, feathers and lace floated across Jazz Age stages as a Ziegfeld Girl and went on to outlive all but one of her fellow dancers, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100.
        The cause was complications of a long-term heart ailment, her son, Joel Raphaelson, said.
        The impresario Florenz Ziegfeld was inspired by the Paris revues he saw on a European trip in 1905 and opened his first Follies, a variety show with Rockette-like dancers, in 1907. The revues became a Broadway mainstay and ran in annual installments until Ziegfeld's death in 1932.
        Amid the dancers and showgirls, he offered up entertainers like W. C. Fields, Fred Astaire and Bob Hope to audiences that included Diamond Jim Brady, who habitually put up $750 for 10 opening-night seats. Ziegfeld's mission of ''glorifying the American girl'' was heartily seconded by theatergoers, some of whom sent precious jewels ensconced in bouquets of roses to their favorites.
        Mrs. Raphaelson not only played the part in the Ziegfeld Follies of the 20's but wrote about her experience in one of her two novels, ''Glorified,'' published in 1930. Ziegfeld himself contributed this to the book jacket: ''I wish every young girl who has aspirations to go on stage could read this honest and delightful story by one of the most charming of my own Follies Girls.''
        Her audition: ''It was a lovely tune. One, two, three, one, two, three. I loved to dance! My legs seemed to loosen, my heart ceased its pounding.''
        Her naïve reaction to being told a dancer was the mistress of a famous man: ''Were there any more in the show? Maybe? I gained a new interest in each girl, and scrutinized each one closely, looking for the unmistakable signs -- a mink coat and diamonds.''
        The thrill of performing: ''It seemed I had been out there before the footlights but a second, a wonderful second, during which nothing existed but the dance and the music -- the thrilling music.''
        Dorothy Deborah Wegman was born in Manhattan on Nov. 27, 1904, to immigrants from Eastern Europe, and grew up in Washington Heights. Her father was a civil engineer; according to an article in The New York World-Telegram in 1934, it was her mother who steered her daughter, at first reluctant, onto the stage.
        Dorothy's father died when she was 14, and she left high school to support her mother and younger brother by sketching clothes for a coat and suit manufacturer.
        She made her debut as a dancer in a Shubert revue, ''The Passing Show of 1921,'' at the Winter Garden Theater.
        Ziegfeld divided dancers into ''shorts, mediums and talls,'' and Mrs. Raphaelson, then known as Dolly, was cast in the Follies of 1924 as a medium. She switched to her proper name, Dorothy, for that show. In 1927, while appearing in the Ziegfeld musical ''Rio Rita,'' she was given the diminutive Dorshka by Marion Benda, a well-known Ziegfeld beauty, and the name stuck.
        During the run of ''Rio Rita,'' which The New York Times review said had ''inordinately beautiful dancing girls,'' she eloped with Samson Raphaelson, who wrote both the play and film versions of ''The Jazz Singer,'' as well as the short story on which they were based, among many other things.
        After seven years with Ziegfeld, Mrs. Raphaelson took to domestic life ''like a bird to air,'' according to The World-Telegram. In later years, she acted in summer stock and published her second novel, ''Morning Song'' (1948). The couple lived successively in Hollywood; Bucks County, Pa.; and New York. Mr. Raphaelson died in 1983.
        Doris Eaton Travis, 101, is now the sole surviving Ziegfeld Girl, according to Nils Hanson, administrator of the National Ziegfeld Club. In a telephone interview from her home in Norman, Okla., Mrs. Travis said that ''in a sense'' she felt suddenly lonely.
        Mrs. Travis said she perfectly recalled her own audition for the Ziegfeld Follies in August 1918, becoming one of 3,000 chosen from the 15,000 women who tried out. She went from a ''special girl'' in 1919 to a full-fledged principal the next year to a solo performer in 1920.
        ''It was beauty, elegance, loveliness,'' she said, ''beauty and elegance like a French painting of a woman's body.''
        Mrs. Raphaelson is survived by her son, Joel, who lives in Chicago; her daughter, Naomi Yocum of Lancaster, Pa.; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
        Her long-term memories never dulled. One was of Al Jolson being protective of her when an off-color joke was told. ''Get your coat, Dorothy, you're going home,'' he ordered.
        Another lay behind the inscription of her copy of Will Durant's ''Story of Philosophy.'' She had told a long-ago admirer to buy her the book rather than the diamond bracelet or fur wrap he offered.
        ''For Dorothy,'' the inscription read. ''This was your idea, not mine.''
        Correction:  November 18, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Saturday about Dorothy Wegman Raphaelson, a Ziegfeld girl, misidentified the author of the screenplay for the 1927 movie ''The Jazz Singer.'' The author was Alfred A. Cohn, who adapted it from a stage play by Samson Raphaelson (Mrs. Raphaelson's husband), not Mr. Raphaelson.
      