
        Constance Cummings, a versatile American actress who lived mostly in England and, in a more glamorous age of liners and ocean crossings, captivated audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a long stage, screen and television career, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Oxfordshire. She was 95.
        Her death was confirmed by her son, Dr. Jonathan Levy.
        Starting as a teenage chorus girl in New York in 1928, Ms. Cummings appeared in several Broadway shows, caught the eye of a Hollywood mogul in 1930 and was soon playing flappers, molls and ingénues in a skein of films heavy on romance, blazing guns and sedans careening along dark roads.
        From that inauspicious apprenticeship, she climbed on rungs of talent and drive to become a serious and celebrated actress in New York and London. She took on plays by Shakespeare, Sartre, Shaw, Edward Albee, Tennessee Williams and others, and with them more complex roles: vulgar women, ambitious schemers, witless socialites and victims of drugs, alcohol and stroke.
        Ms. Cummings's finest performance, many critics said, was as Mary Tyrone, the frail matriarch of an Irish-American family, in the 1971 London revival of ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' Eugene O'Neill's autobiographical tale of a dysfunctional family's day of disintegration.
        Playing opposite Laurence Olivier at the National Theater, Ms. Cummings delivered a subtle and hypnotic portrayal of transformation, from a gentle maternal presence to the spectral morphine addict of the last act. Clive Barnes, in a review for The New York Times, called it ''one of the most compelling O'Neill productions I have ever seen -- terrifying in its intensity and uncompromising honesty.''
        In the 1979 Broadway production of Arthur Kopit's ''Wings,'' Ms. Cummings bewitched theatergoers in the role she called the most demanding of her career: Emily Stilson, a one-time aviator and wing-walker, stricken by a cerebral hemorrhage and groping in the chaotic landscape of her broken mind.
        To be in the audience, critics said, was to be inside her consciousness, lost in the silent pandemonium of the stroke. A ticking clock falters, then stops. The lamp flickers out. She sits alone in the darkness, bewildered by jumbled memories, terrifying voices. Have I crashed in a strange country? Are the doctors Romanians? Why are they talking gibberish? Why can't they understand my perfectly lucid answers? Is this a snowstorm? What is a toothbrush? Who am I?
        Richard Eder, in a review for The Times, called her performance ''by far the most distinguished work to open on Broadway this season.'' Ms. Cummings shared the Tony award for best actress that year with Carole Shelley, who was cited for her role in ''The Elephant Man.''
        Ms. Cummings made more than 40 American and British films, most of them in the 1930's and 40's -- a canon of romantic comedies, farces and potboilers co-starring the likes of Harold Lloyd, George Raft, Robert Young and Spencer Tracy. It was her 1945 role in the screen adaptation of Noël Coward's ''Blithe Spirit,'' with Rex Harrison, that made her an international star.
        But as her dramatic range widened, she became better known for her perishable stage work than her film roles. In the 1950's and 60's, she made only eight movies, but performed in scores of plays on Broadway, in the West End and at the National Theater in London, and elsewhere in Britain and Europe.
        In London, she was in Joseph Kramm's ''Shrike'' (1953), with Sam Wanamaker; Clifford Odets's ''Winter Journey'' (1952), with Michael Redgrave; Aristophanes' ''Lysistrata'' (1957); Sartre's ''Huis Clos'' (''No Exit,'' 1962); Max Beerbohm's ''Social Success'' (1962); and as Martha, the alcoholic campus wife, in Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' (1964).
        In her twilight years, Ms. Cummings appeared in revivals of ''The Chalk Garden'' in New York and ''Mrs. Warren's Profession'' in Vienna, both in 1982; in a 1983 television version of ''Wings,'' filmed for the American Playhouse series on PBS; and in a London production of ''The Glass Menagerie'' in 1985. Her last television movie was ''Dead Man's Folly,'' an Agatha Christie mystery with Peter Ustinov as Hercule Poirot, on CBS in 1986. Her West End finale was in ''Uncle Vanya,'' in 1999.
        Constance Cummings was born Constance Halverstadt -- she took her mother's maiden name professionally -- in Seattle on May 15, 1910, the daughter of a lawyer and a concert soprano. She was stage-struck early, studied classical dancing and performed in summer stock at 16. Two years later, accompanied by her mother, she went to New York, where she got into the chorus line of a Broadway musical.
        By 1930, she had caught the eye of Samuel Goldwyn, and went to Hollywood to co-star with Ronald Coleman in ''The Devil to Pay.'' Unexpectedly replaced by Loretta Young, she jumped to Columbia and made her first film, ''The Criminal Code,'' in 1931, with Walter Huston. She appeared in 21 more movies over the next four years, most notably ''Movie Crazy,'' with Harold Lloyd.
        In Hollywood, she met the British playwright and director Benn W. Levy, who was there to do a script. They were married in 1933 and settled in London a year later. She had to win a court fight with Columbia to make movies in Britain. But by 1935, she was one of the most sought after film stars on either side of the Atlantic. She also began appearing on the stage again, in London and New York.
        Many of her plays in the 1940's and 50's were written or directed by her husband, who became a Labor member of Parliament after World War II and a prominent campaigner for nuclear disarmament.
        In her heyday, Ms. Cummings cut a glamorous figure, a gray-eyed, auburn-haired beauty toasted in Hollywood, New York and London. Her trans-Atlantic sailings made little items in the newspapers.
        In 1974, Ms. Cummings was named a Commander of the British Empire for her contributions to entertainment. She had spent so many years in England -- living in London and on a 600-acre farm in Oxfordshire -- and spoke British English with so slight an accent that many Americans assumed she was British. Her husband died in 1973. In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Jemima Levy. Both live in Oxford.
        Correction:  November 30, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Constance Cummings, a stage and screen actress, misspelled the surname of the co-star of the film ''The Devil to Pay!'' (1930), in which she was replaced by Loretta Young. He was Ronald Colman, not Coleman.
      