
        Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan.
        The death was announced by her companion, Sylvia Short, a stage and film actress, who is her only immediate survivor. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, she said.
        Trained as a hospital social worker, Miss Kellogg blended some of the women and men she met into the story line of her first novel, a sardonic, funny, occasionally biting but mostly tender tale of patients who meet at a hospital, decide to live together, then often quarrel and nag one another. She was persuaded to put the characters into a book by a friend, the novelist and memoirist Paula Fox, with whom she had previously collaborated on a television play.
        ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon'' (Farrar, Straus, 1968) reached the best-seller lists and drew considerable praise from critics.
        ''It is a tight, engaging and exceptionally nice novel,'' wrote Eliot Fremont-Smith in The New York Times, ''and if tears come to the reader's eyes, they are a measure of the passion of compassion that it conveys.''
        Jonathan Kozol, in The Times Book Review, called it a ''rare little novel'' that deserved ''considerable praise and admiration.''
        Miss Kellogg also wrote the screenplay for the 1970 film by the same name, directed by Otto Preminger, with Liza Minnelli as the title character.
        She next wrote ''Like the Lion's Tooth'' (Farrar, 1972), again drawing from life, to tell about three emotionally disturbed children. Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The Times deemed it overly sentimental and ''not worth doing,'' though other reviewers found it a stark and compelling novel and stylistically an improvement over her first.
        Miss Kellogg wrote more screenplays, but nothing equal to her own for ''Junie Moon.'' She adapted Sylvia Plath's ''Bell Jar'' for a 1979 movie with Julie Harris, and wrote several stage plays, including ''After You've Gone,'' which was initially presented by the Actor's Repertory Theater in 1982.
        Marjorie Kellogg was born in Santa Barbara. She attended the University of California, Berkeley, worked on the copy desk of The San Francisco Examiner for a while and tried her luck as a magazine writer in Spain. She next was a publicist in San Francisco, then entered Smith College, where she got a bachelor's in 1952 and a master's a year later, both in social work.
        Working for social-welfare agencies in New York, she tried some creative writing for television on the side. While she was collaborating on a play with Paula Fox, Ms. Fox challenged her to sit down and write a novel about the people she met at work at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital.
        After some reluctance, Miss Kellogg did and finished the book in five months, working before and after her shifts at the hospital.
      