
        Leona Nevler, a prominent book editor who 50 years ago helped secure the publication of a first novel set in an imaginary town called Peyton Place, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 79 and had homes in Manhattan and Westport, Conn.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism after surgery, her daughter, Ellen J. Silberman, said.
        At her death, Ms. Nevler was a senior editor at Berkley Books, an imprint of the Penguin Group. For much of her career she was an executive at Fawcett Books.
        Known primarily for publishing paperbacks, Ms. Nevler handled the work of many prominent writers, among them John Updike, Margaret Atwood, Jane Smiley, P. D. James, Dick Francis, James A. Michener, Jeffrey Archer, Amy Tan and Fannie Flagg.
        Leona Joan Nevler was born in Lynn, Mass., and earned a bachelor's degree in English from Boston University in 1947.
        Her first publishing job was with Little, Brown, followed, in the mid-1950's, by a stint as a manuscript reader for Lippincott. She joined Fawcett in 1955.
        While reading for Lippincott, Ms. Nevler was sent the draft of a novel by a New Hampshire housewife named Grace Metalious. Originally titled ''The Tree and the Blossom,'' it chronicled the dark sexual underside of a picture-postcard New England town.
        The book had far too much steam for Lippincott, as Ms. Nevler knew. She recommended it instead to Kathryn G. Messner, who ran Julian Messner, an independent publishing house in New York. Ms. Messner snapped it up, asking Ms. Nevler to help edit the manuscript as a freelance.
        Published in 1956, ''Peyton Place'' went on to sell more than 10 million copies and spawn several movies and a television series. The title became a catchphrase for suburban dysfunction.
        At Fawcett, Ms. Nevler helped start the Crest Books reprint line and held various editorial positions, eventually becoming vice president and publisher of Fawcett Books.
        She left in 1981 and moved to Ballantine Books, which had acquired the Fawcett list.
        She retired from Ballantine in 2001 as a senior vice president and editorial director.
        Ms. Nevler's marriage to James H. Silberman ended in divorce. Besides her daughter, of Newton, Mass., she is survived by a son, Michael Silberman, of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Alberta N. Grossman of Manhattan and Westport; and four grandchildren.
      