
        Margretta Madden Styles, a nursing educator who conceived and helped establish precise national standards for certifying nurses in pediatrics, cardiology and other medical specialties, died on Nov. 20 at her home in Clearwater, Fla. She was 75.
        The cause was colon cancer, her family said.
        It was in the 1970's that Dr. Styles and others began to press for stricter certification of nurses and a rational system to regulate them. She lectured and wrote on the subject in nursing journals, contributing articles on advanced nursing practices and ways to determine criteria for issuing sound credentials.
        In the 1980's she helped found the American Nurses Credentialing Center, which now administers testing for more than 20 medical specialties and, said Catherine L. Gilliss, dean of the Duke University School of Nursing, ''helped to standardize across the nation just what to expect from your nurse.''
        The center is the credentialing arm of the American Nurses Association, which represents 150,000 nurses and nurse specialists. Dr. Styles served as the association's president from 1986 to 1988.
        Later in her career she studied the emerging importance of trained nurses in developing countries and, in 1993, was elected president of the International Council of Nurses.
        She continued to write on certification and helped edit a popular anthology, ''On Nursing: A Literary Celebration'' (1993), which ''framed the art of healing, the pain of suffering, and was received as a gift to the profession,'' said Barbara A. Blakeney, the current president of the American Nurses Association.
        Margretta Madden was born in Mount Union, Pa., and earned an undergraduate degree from Juniata College, a master's from Yale and a doctorate in education from the University of Florida.
        She worked as a staff nurse in hospitals before becoming an associate professor of nursing at Duke in 1967. She was dean of nursing at the University of Texas at San Antonio; then at Wayne State University, in Detroit; and finally at the University of California, San Francisco.
        Dr. Styles's husband of 47 years, the Rev. Douglas Styles, an Episcopal priest, died in 2002.
        She is survived by two sons, Michael, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Patrick, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Megan Styles of Danville, Calif.; a brother, Joseph Madden of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Jane Rupp of St. Petersburg; and two grandchildren.
      