
        Selma Jeanne Cohen, a historian, editor and teacher who devoted her career to proclaiming dance an art worthy of the same scholarly respect traditionally awarded to painting, music and literature, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 85.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Leslie Steinau, her lawyer and a longtime friend.
        Ms. Cohen waged a tireless campaign against scholars who maintained that dance was inherently frivolous. Instead, she believed it had a rich history that could be fruitfully analyzed from many philosophical viewpoints. Her efforts led her to become America's leading figure in dance scholarship.
        Her most ambitious achievement was her editing of The International Encyclopedia of Dance for Oxford University Press. Published in 1998 after two decades of planning, and encompassing all forms of dance, the six-volume work, modeled on The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, remains the most comprehensive guide of its kind.
        Eclectic scholarly interests had prompted Ms. Cohen, A. J.Pischl and Sheppard Black in 1959 to found Dance Perspectives, a journal dedicated to monographs on various aspects of world dance. Ms. Cohen became its sole editor in 1966. After it ceased publication in 1976, the Dance Perspectives Foundation, which she had established, continued to award an annual prize for the best dance book of the year.
        Ms. Cohen was born in Chicago, attended elementary and high school at the University of Chicago Laboratory School and went on to the university itself, receiving a Ph.D. in English in 1946.
        When a childhood friend started taking ballet lessons from Edna McRae, a respected Chicago teacher, Ms. Cohen went along. Ms. Cohen soon realized she had no dancing talent. But she had great curiosity, and McRae had a dance library, which Ms. Cohen devoured.
        She began teaching English at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1946 and, at the same time, worked with the Los Angeles teacher and choreographer Eugene Loring. After moving to New York in 1953, she devoted herself to dance and started reviewing for Dance Observer. From 1955 to 1958 she was a dance critic at The New York Times, where she assisted John Martin, who was chief dance critic. She was dance critic for The Saturday Review in 1965 and 1966.
        Ms. Cohen was a member of the first National Endowment for the Arts Dance Panel in 1966; organized a critics' conference at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., in 1970; and taught over the years at many colleges, including the University of Chicago, where she returned to head summer seminars from 1974 to 1976. Ms. Cohen wrote and edited several important books, among them ''The Modern Dance: Seven Statements of Belief'' (Wesleyan University Press, 1966), an anthology of essays by contemporary choreographers; ''Doris Humphrey: An Artist First'' (Wesleyan, 1972), a biography of a pioneering modern dancer; and ''Next Week, Swan Lake'' (Wesleyan, 1982), a study of dance aesthetics. Her ''Dance as a Theater Art'' (Dodd, Mead, 1974), a history of dance since the Renaissance, remains a popular college text.
        Ms. Cohen, a tiny soft-spoken woman, could be a rigorous teacher, but she delighted in presiding graciously over social events. Friends, colleagues and students often met informally at her apartment, gatherings usually graced by Giselle, her long-lived and much-pampered cat. Ms. Cohen often jokingly said she hoped to write a treatise on feline aesthetics someday.
        No immediate family members survive.
      