
        Elizabeth Janeway, who began her career as a best-selling novelist in the 1940's and later distinguished herself as a critic, a lecturer and an early advocate of the women's movement, died yesterday at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 91.
        Her death was reported by her son Michael Janeway, a writer and editor who is a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.
        Most of Ms. Janeway's earlier books were novels that focused on family situations and occasionally the pressures on women of modern society and were cited for their psychological acuteness and good sense. All the while, she reviewed books for The New York Times and other newspapers, and was credited for helping to introduce English writers like Anthony Powell to an American audience and for defending the artistic merits of ''Lolita,'' by Nabokov.
        In the 1970's, she began to write nonfiction books about feminist issues: ''Man's World, Woman's Place: A Study of Social Mythology'' (Morrow, 1971), ''Between Myth and Morning: Women Awakening'' (Morrow, 1974), ''Powers of the Weak'' (Knopf, 1980) and ''Improper Behavior'' (Morrow, 1987), among others.
        Despite her conventional-seeming role as a wife and mother, she was always staunch in her support of feminism, remaining friends with women like Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and Kate Millett, her son said. Reviewing ''Between Myth and Morning'' in The Christian Science Monitor, June Goodwin wrote: ''Of all the writers on the subject of feminism,'' Ms. Janeway ''has the most acceptability in the eyes of men. She has credentials, she is married to a successful man'' -- the economist and writer Eliot Janeway -- ''has children; as recently as 1969 she termed the women's movement 'frivolous and gestural.'''
        Ms. Goodwin concluded that women ''need to read books'' like this ''to have their thoughts and experience confirmed and thus to be reinforced for action.''
        Elizabeth Hall Janeway was born Oct. 7, 1913, in Brooklyn, the granddaughter of an Episcopal minister and the younger daughter of Charles H. Hall, a naval architect, and Jeanette F. Searle Hall.
        After graduating from the Shore Road Academy in Brooklyn, she spent a year, 1930-31, at Swarthmore College. Her son said that because the Depression wiped out her family's savings, she broke off her education to spend a year writing advertising copy for a department store, Abraham & Straus, and handling orders for the Book of the Month Club.
        She then went to Barnard College, taking her B.A. degree in 1935.
        In 1938, she married Mr. Janeway, who died in 1993. Their second son, William Hall Janeway, a financial executive, also survives her.
        In 1943, she published her first novel, ''The Walsh Girls'' (Doubleday), about two New England sisters, one of whom rejoins the other after her German husband's death in a concentration camp. The book was praised by John Dos Passos, and it became a best seller. Six more novels followed, among them ''Daisy Kenyon'' (Doubleday, 1945), which was made into a movie starring Joan Crawford; ''Leaving Home'' (Doubleday, 1953; reissued by CUNY, 1987); and ''Accident'' (Harper & Row, 1964), as well as several books for young people and collections on writing that she edited.
        Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.
        She was a trustee of Barnard, a fellow of Berkeley College at Yale University and a director of the Legal and Education Fund for the National Organization for Women.
        Through her husband's involvement with the Roosevelt and Johnson administrations, she came to know many prominent Washington figures, including Eleanor Roosevelt, about whom she wrote profiles. At the request of Walter Reuther, the labor organizer, Ms. Janeway served as secretary of the National Committee to Aid Families of G.M. Strikers during an auto workers strike against General Motors soon after World War II.
      