
        Marjorie Williams, a Washington Post columnist and contributing editor for Vanity Fair who was known for sharp observations on the political elite, died yesterday at her home in Washington. She was 47.
        The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Timothy Noah.
        Ms. Williams became a columnist in 2000, after more than a decade of writing lengthy profiles on Washington power brokers, including Vice President Al Gore and the Democratic diplomat Clark Clifford.
        Her column was syndicated in July 2001, the same week her fourth-stage cancer was diagnosed, Mr. Noah said.
        Ms. Williams attended Harvard for two years, but dropped out and went to work in publishing, where she worked for several years before getting a job as an editor at The Post. Later, she asked to move to a writing position in The Post's Style section and frequently wrote for Vanity Fair.
        ''What she used to say at the time was, 'I want to be one of the children as opposed to one of the grown-ups,'' said Mr. Noah, a writer for Slate who frequently showed his wife his own stories. ''But what she was most proud of was being a mom.''
        In a column published last November, Ms. Williams wrote of her helping her daughter dress in an elaborate Halloween costume.
        ''So how could I explain the euphoria of the 45 minutes Alice and I spent in her bedroom, colluding over her hair, giggling at her faux leather, deeply fringed bell-bottoms? The pleasure of watching her strap on those awful silver platform shoes, like something I wore in 1973?'' she wrote. ''I'd just seen Alice leave for her prom, or her first real date. I'd cheated time, flipping the calendar five or six years into the future. The character I'd played was the 52-year-old mother I will probably never be.''
        In addition to her husband and her daughter, Ms. Williams is survived by her son, Will, and her sisters, Wistar Rawls of Monkton, Vt., Anne Williams of Ringoes, N.J., and Rosina Williams of Jersey City.
      