
        Myriam J. Altman, an appeals judge of the New York State Supreme Court since 1994, died on Jan. 29 at New York University Hospital. She was 65 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disorder, her family said.
        Justice Altman resigned from the bench just days before her death. She was an associate justice of the Appellate Division's far-flung Second Department, based in Brooklyn, but had her chambers in Manhattan.
        A New York judge since 1978, she was appointed to the Appellate Division by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. She was recommended several times by the Commission on Judicial Nominations for an appointment to the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court and a rung above the Appellate Division.
        Myriam Jarblum was born in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1939. Her family fled Belgium and the Nazi occupation in 1941, escaping via Vichy France, Spain and Portugal and managing to reach Cuba on one of the last refugee ships.
        She was 7 when the family came to the United States. She graduated from Barnard College in 1959 and received her law degree from New York University Law School in 1963. Before she joined the bench, she was in private practice and served as a law secretary in court.
        She was a judge on the New York City Civil Court from 1978 to 1987, sitting as an acting justice of State Supreme Court for most of those years, presiding over civil and, later, criminal cases. She was elected a Supreme Court justice in 1987 and served in its Civil Term until her promotion to the Appellate Division in January 1994.
        She was a past member of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct and the Ethics Commission of the Unified Court System.
        Justice Altman is survived by her husband, Herbert I. Altman, a former justice of State Supreme Court; two sons,, Michael T., of Woodmere, N.Y., and Daniel, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Sarah R. Stark of Raanana, Israel; a brother, William Jarblum of Los Angeles; and nine grandchildren.
      