
        Yolanda Garcia, a South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, died on Thursday. She was 53.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez. She was stricken at the office of Nos Quedamos/We Stay, the community group she helped found in the early 1990's to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people who lived and worked in the neighborhood.
        The vow embodied by the group's name became a rallying cry for Ms. Garcia, after she and her neighbors learned of a city redevelopment plan that would transform 30 blocks from rubble-covered lots into buildings that would house 4,000 families.
        In a story she would recount often, proudly and with a wry smile, they found out about the plan by accident in 1992, when a resident noticed a city worker outside her house jotting down notes. Residents soon learned that the city had begun surveying the area to see which buildings were still occupied and who might have to be relocated as part of the Melrose Commons redevelopment plan.
        Incensed by the idea that their reward for enduring years of abandonment, arson and crime would be eviction, they confronted officials during public hearings. Ms. Garcia, whose family owned a carpet store on Third Avenue, became one of the more outspoken leaders.
        ''If this area deteriorated, it wasn't because of the people -- it deteriorated because of poor city planning,'' Ms. Garcia told The New York Times in 1993. ''If we kept our area up when it was in dire need of repair, we should be part of the progress.''
        The confrontation turned into collaboration as politicians and planners invited the group to work alongside architects not only to critique the original plan, but also to redefine it. An apartment on Courtlandt Avenue was turned into a planning studio, where nearby residents pored over architectural drawings and models.
        Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president at the time and a proponent of the redevelopment plan, said Ms. Garcia offered insights that had to be heeded.
        ''She was right,'' he said in an interview yesterday. ''They stuck it out in the toughest of times, and they were saying to government: 'You're planning for my neighborhood? Ask me.'''
        Their suggestions ranged from allowing for lower-density housing to including numerous smaller gardens. The group sponsored construction of several dozen town houses and currently has 750 more units of rental and cooperative apartments in the pipeline. Their efforts became a model for community-based planning, said Richard Kahan, the former head of the New York State Urban Development Corporation who was active in the Melrose Commons plan.
        Ms. Garcia was born in Santurce, P.R., and moved with her family to the Bronx when she was 6 months old. The family members moved often, always within the borough, as did their carpet business. She was helping run the business on a stretch of Third Avenue that had seen better days, when she became active in civic affairs.
        She closed the carpet business several years ago to devote herself full time to her community work.
        She is survived by her daughter, and one relentless community group.
      