
        Nathalie Krassovska, a Russian-born ballerina who toured the United States for many years with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and was known for her lyricism, died on Tuesday in Dallas. She was 86.
        The cause was complications of surgery, said Natalie Skelton of the Dallas Dance Council.
        Miss Krassovska was also a ballerina of the London Festival Ballet. She settled in Dallas in 1963 and helped encourage dance activities there.
        A beautiful woman with luminous blue eyes, she performed the standard 19th-century repertory with both the Ballet Russe and Festival Ballet and was especially known for her ''Giselle.'' With the Ballet Russe, she also danced works by 20th-century choreographers like Michel Fokine, Léonide Massine, Bronislava Nijinska and George Balanchine.
        Born in Petrograd, as St. Petersburg was then called, Miss Krassovska grew up in Western Europe and was trained in Paris and London. She appeared with the Nijinska Ballet in 1932 and Balanchine's short-lived Les Ballets 1933, but first achieved prominence in 1936 as a member of Les Ballets de Monte Carlo. There she encountered Fokine, the great reformer of 20th-century ballet, who personally coached her in many of his productions.
        The Monte Carlo troupe merged in 1938 with a new organization calling itself Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Miss Krassovska became one of its principal dancers. The group made the United States its base when World War II broke out and spent most of every year on the road.
        On tour, Miss Krassovska established herself as a specialist in balletic Romanticism. She first performed the title role of ''Giselle,'' perhaps the greatest of Romantic ballets, in Montreal in 1949, prompting S. Morgan-Powell, dance critic of The Montreal Daily Star, to write, ''Her dancing was characterized by a purity of style not often seen nowadays in ballet.''
        Miss Krassovska also danced some unexpected parts. Thus she had to learn tap dancing for her role as a debutante in ''The New Yorker,'' Massine's 1940 comedy inspired by cartoons in the magazine of that name.
        Miss Krassovska left the Ballet Russe in 1950 to become a ballerina of London Festival Ballet, where she stayed through 1955. Of both Russian and Scottish ancestry, she danced in Great Britain under the name of Nathalie Leslie. But she returned to the Ballet Russe as guest artist under her familiar surname in the late 50's.
        After moving to Dallas, she opened a school and founded a student company, Krassovska Ballet Jeunesse.
      