
        Connie Scovill Small, known in maritime circles as the First Lady of Light for the decades she spent helping illuminate the night as the wife of a lighthouse keeper on the rugged New England coast, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 103.
        Her death was announced by the American Lighthouse Foundation, of Wells, Me.
        Active in the lighthouse preservation movement until shortly before her death, Mrs. Small lectured widely on her vanished way of life. Her memoir, ''The Lighthouse Keeper's Wife,'' first published when she was in her mid-80's, was reprinted by the University of Maine Press in 1999.
        ''In the 19th century and early 20th century, any kind of state or federal policies that were made about lighthouse service included an understanding that women were part of that service,'' Andrea Constantine Hawkes, a historian who edited Mrs. Small's memoir, said in a telephone interview. ''And the government truly expected women to do these things and receive no money and no recognition.''
        From 1920 to 1948, Mrs. Small worked alongside her husband, Elson, as he tended lighthouses in Maine and New Hampshire for the United States Lighthouse Service, later part of the Coast Guard. It was a solitary calling; most of the lighthouses to which the couple were posted were on tiny, windswept islands several miles off the coast. The work, Mrs. Small wrote, was ''a life of people risking their own lives to help men and ships; a life of order and duty.''
        Every evening before sunset the couple lighted the lamp by hand, lugging cans of fuel up the tower stairs, trimming wicks, cleaning soot. They rose at dawn to extinguish the light. They endured lashing storms, injury and illness. In their first posting, Lubec Channel Light in northeastern Maine, they reached their quarters by way of an iron ladder on the outside of the tower that was slick with ice in winter. It was a 30-foot drop to the rocks below.
        But for Mrs. Small, there were ample pleasures: correspondence courses from Betty Crocker, fresh clams dug up outside the house, friendships with summer visitors and the rough-hewn crew of a fishing boat who lumbered into her living room one day demanding to hear an opera on the radio.
        Constance Scovill was born on June 4, 1901, in Lubec, Me., the easternmost town in the United States. The sea was in her blood: her grandfather was a captain, an uncle was a lighthouse keeper and her father was on the crew of the lifesaving station at nearby Quoddy Head. But Mrs. Small was afraid of the water and never learned to swim. She was also afraid of heights.
        She married Elson Small in 1920, and for their first 28 years together they lived in keeper's quarters, some at the base of a lighthouse, others in the tower itself. There was seldom a telephone, electricity or plumbing.
        Before Mr. Small retired in 1948, the couple also served at Seguin Light and St. Croix River Light in Maine, and Portsmouth Harbor Light in New Hampshire. After her husband's death in 1960, Mrs. Small worked in a Portsmouth department store and later as a head resident at Farmington State College in Maine. No immediate family members survive.
        Automation has made the couple's work obsolete. Except for a largely ceremonial position at Boston Light, there are no more lighthouse keepers in the United States, according to the Lighthouse Foundation. The lights turn on by themselves.
        ''I loved being in the tower at sunset,'' Mrs. Small wrote. ''When I took that lens cover off and the light flashed, I could begin counting from Portland to Pemaquid Point as almost simultaneously the lights came on -- 13 of them. It was like saying 'hello,' 'hello,' 'hello,' 'hello,' all down the coast.''
      