
        Suzie Frankfurt, an interior decorator who popularized 18th- and 19th-century Russian furniture among corporate raiders of the 1970's and 1980's and was an early collaborator of Andy Warhol, died on Jan. 7 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 73.
        She had lived in Norfolk, Conn., until she became incapacitated several years ago after treatment of a brain tumor, her family said.
        A bohemian hostess, the flame-haired Ms. Frankfurt was known as a creative catalyst as well as a celebrity decorator. The designer Gianni Versace, for example, credited her with introducing him to America when he was largely unknown, not to mention also introducing him to Studio 54.
        The guest lists of her idiosyncratic cocktail parties included such unlikely pairings as Bill Blass and the jazz-rock group Blood, Sweat & Tears.
        Ms. Frankfurt was born Suzanne Allen on Aug. 21, 1931, in Los Angeles, the daughter of Eva and Isidore Allen, the owner of a linen distribution company. A cousin was married to a son of the industrialist Norton Simon, and through that association she became part of a well-connected extended family that included the actress Jennifer Jones, who was married to Simon, and Simon's sister, Marcia Weisman, a prominent art collector.
        After graduating with honors from Stanford, Ms. Allen moved to New York to work in the research department of the Young & Rubicam advertising agency, whose accounts included Norton Simon's food conglomerate. In 1956, she married Stephen O. Frankfurt, a graphic designer who was one of the agency's art directors; he later designed the titles for the film ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and eventually became the president of Young & Rubicam. The couple divorced in 1968.
        She is survived by her sons, Jaime and Peter, both of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
        Research proved not to be Ms. Frankfurt's forte. Instead, she was given the responsibility of redecorating Young & Rubicam's lobby and executive conference rooms. Thirty years later, she had become one of the world's most admired interior decorators with a varied list of clients, including Robert Redford, Robert Mapplethorpe and a Florida bank chairman later convicted of fraud named David L. Paul. He was accused of paying Ms. Frankfurt some $389,000 in bank funds to decorate his home.
        Connoisseur magazine called her a ''nostalgic romantic,'' explaining that her taste reflected an admiration for ''the ancient regime -- any regime, and the madder the king, the better.''
        Ms. Frankfurt lived as well as she decorated, in a succession of town houses on the Upper East Side, all packed with Biedermeier and Russian antiques. ''I made Russian chic,'' she said in an interview with W magazine in 1993. ''Now, it's too chic.''
        Though articles about Ms. Frankfurt's interior designs appeared frequently in Architectural Digest, The New York Times and other publications, she also occupied a small but significant niche in American art history, thanks to her friendship with Mr. Warhol.
        She and Mr. Warhol met in 1959, and the friendship lasted a lifetime. In fact, the index of Mr. Warhol's published diaries has 34 entries for Ms. Frankfurt.
        The first encounter occurred at Serendipity, an Upper East Side ice cream parlor, after she saw an exhibition of his watercolors. Their rapport was instantaneous, though tinged with opportunism. ''The only reason Andy liked me was because I was raised in Malibu with movie stars like Myrna Loy all around,'' Ms. Frankfurt said in an interview in The New York Observer years later. ''I liked Andy because I'd always felt my whole life that I was an outsider.''
        Within the year, Ms. Frankfurt and Mr. Warhol produced ''Wild Raspberries,'' a spoof of haute cuisine cookbooks; the title was a tongue-in-cheek allusion to ''Wild Strawberries,'' the Ingmar Bergman film. Warhol illustrated the slender volume, which was colored by schoolchildren. The calligraphy text was the work of the artist's mother, Julia Warhola. Ms. Frankfurt prepared the recipes, which sounded like a cross between Julia Child and Edward Gorey, and included Omelette Greta Garbo (''always to be eaten alone in a candlelit room''). ,
        ''Wild Raspberries'' failed to find an audience outside its creators' friends and families. It was probably just as well: only a few dozen copies were printed, each hand-bound by rabbis on the Lower East Side. In 1997, however, the book was reprinted by Bulfinch Press and received admiring reviews as an oddity.
        Ms. Frankfurt herself called it ''a little dippy.''
        Correction:  January 18, 2005, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Suzie Frankfurt, a New York decorator who was a friend and collaborator of Andy Warhol's, misstated the place of her first meeting with him. It was at the Plaza Hotel after she had seen an exhibition of his watercolors at the restaurant Serendipity; they did not meet at Serendipity.
      