
        Phyllis W. Meadow, a psychoanalyst who worked to liberalize training and licensing in her field, died on Jan. 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Brookline, Mass., New York City and Dummerston, Vt.
        The cause was gallbladder cancer, said her daughter, Dr. Dena Reed, who is also psychoanalyst.
        At a time when the largest psychoanalytic professional association in the United States required psychoanalysts to have medical training, Dr. Meadow, whose doctorate was in human relations, actively sought to open the training of psychoanalysts to those without a medical degree. Their mission placed them at odds with many psychoanalysts, who felt that opening the field to lay analysts might lower standards.
        In 1988, the American Psychoanalytic Association, in response to a restraint-of-trade suit by psychologists, agreed to open psychoanalytic training to candidates without medical degrees.
        Dr. Meadow felt that ''any qualified person with a B.A. should be eligible to pursue training in psychoanalysis,'' said Jane Snyder, dean of graduate studies at the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis, an alternative training program that Dr. Meadow founded in 1973.
        Two of her chief missions, Dr. Snyder said, were to create greater diversity among the kinds of patients being treated and to reduce the number of therapeutic sessions from three to five a week to one or two.
        Dr. Meadow taught, wrote, edited, practiced therapy, and founded and led organizations, including the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in Manhattan, along with its branch, the Cyril Z. Meadow Institute of Psychoanalysis, in Dummerston. This was named for her husband, who founded the New York Center with her and who died in 1998.
        Watersheds in Dr. Meadow's campaign, Dr. Snyder said, were 1994, when the Boston Graduate School became one of the first institutions in this country to grant a master's degree in psychoanalysis, and 1999, when the Vermont branch was able to offer a doctorate.
        Dr. Meadow also lobbied successfully to liberalize laws regulating the training of psychoanalysts, both federally and in New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Vermont, California and other states.
        Phyllis Whitcomb was born in Boston on April 12, 1924, the oldest of three daughters of George Whitcomb, a printing and publishing salesman, and Marjorie Loring Whitcomb, who became Gen. Omar Bradley's administrative assistant during World War II. She attended Watertown High School and earned a B.A. from the University of Maryland in 1946.
        After working as a magazine writer and editor in New York City, she did clinical work at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis, founded by Theodore Reik, receiving certification as a psychoanalyst in 1962. She got her doctorate from New York University in 1969.
        Among her books are ''The New Psychoanalysis'' (Rowman & Littlefield, 2003) and ''Ethics for Psychoanalysis: In the Interest of the Patient'' (forthcoming from International Universities Press).
        Besides her daughter, her survivors include two sisters, Susan Winbourne of Sudbury, Mass., and Jessie Roland of Navarre, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      