
        Beverly Dennis, an actress who played on Broadway, in films and television, most notably on CBS as Red Buttons's wife on ''The Red Buttons Show'' until she was blacklisted in the 1950's, died on Jan. 20 at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, her daughter, Amanda Kramer, said.
        Ms. Dennis was summoned to Hollywood in 1951 by the director William A. Wellman, who cast her as a lead in ''Westward the Women,'' written by Frank Capra and starring Robert Taylor.
        She had met Mr. Buttons at the Actors Studio when the two auditioned unsuccessfully for parts in Tennessee Williams's play ''Camino Real.'' She lost her role as Mr. Buttons's wife in 1952 after the publication ''Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television'' (1950) listed her as belonging to ''subversive organizations,'' probably because she ''signed a few petitions like the rest of us,'' her friend the actress Lee Grant said.
        Ms. Dennis was born Beverly Maxine Omensky in Rahway, N.J., on Dec. 12, 1925, the older of two daughters of Charles Omensky, who ran a bar and restaurant, and Marion Mintz Omensky. She grew up in Chicago, where she acted in the theater as a child and briefly attended the University of Chicago.
        In 1944 she married Russell Dennis, an actor who was also later blacklisted and then became a medical doctor. He died in 1963. In 1967 she married Jerry Kramer, a businessman, who died in 1983. Her only survivor is her daughter, a musician, singer and composer who plays keyboard in the group the Psychedelic Furs.
        After losing her role on ''The Red Buttons Show,'' Ms. Dennis appeared in 1953 in a successful revival of ''Charley's Aunt'' directed by José Ferrer, and continued to support herself doing television commercials. But she decided to switch her profession to psychotherapy, and attended New York University for her bachelor's degree and Columbia University for a master's.
        In 1977 she moved her practice to Beverly Hills, where her patients included studio heads, directors, screenwriters and performers. According to her friend the writer Ann Louise Bardach, ''She even turned important people down for treatment because, as she said, 'You can't change character.'''
        Correction:  March 5, 2005, Saturday  An obituary on Feb. 14 about Beverly Dennis, an actress who was largely barred from work during the anti-Communist campaigns of the 1950's, misidentified a source of allegations against her. Although she was suspected of Communist sympathies, her name did not appear in ''Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television,'' published in 1950.
      