
        Dr. Sonja Buckley, a Yale virologist and investigator who helped in 1970 to identify the Lassa virus, a potentially deadly disease that originated in Africa, died on Feb. 2 in Baltimore. She was 86.
        Dr. Buckley died in a nursing home after a series of strokes, said a close friend, Joyce Maclay.
        In the Nigerian village of Lassa in 1969, two missionary nurses rapidly became ill and developed symptoms that included high fever and mouth ulcers before they died from what came to be known as Lassa fever. A third nurse in Lassa contracted the virus and was evacuated to Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, where she later recovered. Dr. Buckley, who was part of Yale's Arbovirus Research Unit at the time, began to study the virus, using samples of the nurse's blood.
        Working with Dr. Wilbur Downs and Dr. Jordi Casals-Ariet, Dr. Buckley succeeded in using tissue cultures to isolate and identify the virus. In the process, Dr. Casals-Ariet himself fell ill and was treated with antibodies taken from the surviving nurse's blood. He recovered from the illness and lived until last year, when he died at 92. But a laboratory technician, Juan Roman, also contracted the fever and died in 1969.
        Because of the risk of contagion, the research on the virus was transferred from Yale to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. The virus is transmitted by contact with infected rodents and can be passed from person to person through body fluids.
        Dr. Curtis L. Patton, professor of epidemiology of microbial diseases at Yale, said that Dr. Buckley had provided strongly persuasive ''in vitro evidence'' of both the virus and the effectiveness of its antibodies, and ''went on in very remarkable work to demonstrate that antibodies taken from survivors were protective of tissue cultures'' and could be used in treatment.
        Lassa fever continues to be endemic in Nigeria, Liberia and Sierra Leone. It is treated with a combination of antibodies, the antiviral drug ribavirin and what Dr. Patton called ''good, close nursing care.''
        Dr. Buckley was born Sonja Grob in Zurich and received her medical degree in 1944 from the University of Zurich, where she was later an instructor in microbiology. In 1941, she married Dr. John J. Buckley, a pathologist also studying in Zurich.
        After working as a research assistant at Johns Hopkins, she joined the Sloan-Kettering Institute, where she was chosen as head of the solid tumor program in 1949. Sonja Buckley then joined the Rockefeller Foundation in 1957, working in the foundation's virus laboratories. In 1964, the labs were transferred to Yale and became known as the Arbovirus Research Unit.
        Dr. Buckley retired from Yale in 1994. She lived in Stamford, Conn., before moving to Baltimore about five years ago.
        She is survived by a sister, Annemarie Kohler of Zurich.
      