
        Eleanor Gould Packard, whose questions, comments and admonitions on the proofs of thousands of articles for The New Yorker for 54 years defined for many the care (some writers said obsessiveness) taken in editing the magazine, died Sunday in Manhattan. She was 87.
        Her death was announced by her daughter, Susan Hathaway Packard.
        Miss Gould, as she was known to the staff, challenged the logic, syntax, grammar, flow, usage, punctuation and vocabulary of a legion of nonfiction writers: E.B. White, Roger Angell, Wolcott Gibbs, Ved Mehta, Pauline Kael, Philip Hamburger, John McPhee, Lillian Ross. Many at The New Yorker believed the precisely penciled Gould proofs sustained its suavity of style.
        David Remnick, the magazine's editor, once said: ''I think if there is an indispensable person here, it's Eleanor Gould. The relationship to her is as intimate as it gets; she has been inside my sentences.''
        Invoking Harold Ross, the magazine's founding editor, Mr. Hamburger said, ''It is my impression that she brought to fruition an idea that Ross had, that everything should be looked at by a skeptical eye, not a cynical one, before it was presented to the public.''
        Mr. Hamburger, who was interviewed several years before his death, sighed a little. ''Such probity and intelligence,'' he said.
        Miss Gould's own view of her work was less glorified: ''I just try to make things right.''
        Her work was not easily encompassed in a job title, and the magazine never saw a need to give her one. She was not a fact-checker, though she did find errors. She was not a story editor, copy editor or proofreader. She did not enter the process until an article had been examined by lawyers and editors and was in galley proof, close to the last minute. She worked her way down both margins, penciling corrections and suggestions in a legible hand, always providing her rationale.
        ''A miracle to watch,'' said Edith Iglauer, an editor who once worked with her. ''The words danced across the page.''
        As all editors know, showing such a thing to a tetchy or insecure writer might induce a tantrum. ''Not every writer gets to see a Gould proof,'' Mr. Angell said while she was still on the job. ''It's a challenge. You have to take a Gould proof seriously because she is a scrupulous reader, but you have to know what to ignore.'' If everything she recommended had been carried forward, he said, ''it would be like the purest water -- absolutely tasteless.''
        Yet Mr. Remnick said on her death, ''If it's true The New Yorker is known for the clarity of its prose, then Miss Gould had as much to do with establishing that as its more famous editors and writers.''
        He said that she had been greatly missed since a stroke took her off the job in 1999, but that there were still editors on the staff she had helped to train.
        Miss Gould never used a computer and deadline pressure could sometimes render her handwritten work moot, especially during Tina Brown's chaotic six years as editor.
        Eleanor Gould was born Oct. 3, 1917, in Newark, N.Y., to Wilson Mosher Gould, a lawyer, and Eleanor Loveland Gould. The family moved to Ohio and Eleanor graduated from high school in East Palestine, Ohio, in 1934. She won a scholarship to Oberlin and graduated summa cum laude with a major in English in 1938.
        Aline Kilmer, a poet in New Jersey, became her mentor after years of correspondence Eleanor had initiated at 14. Kilmer taught her editing and helped her come to New York, and after several miserably paid editing jobs she applied to The New Yorker.
        There was a myth that she flyspecked an entire issue and enclosed it with her application. But she described an application of less hubris: she noted two mistakes in recent issues, including, good Lord, a ''different than.''
        She joined The New Yorker Nov. 5, 1945. Her marriage to Frederick A. Packard, also on the magazine's staff, came a year later, and the birth of their only child, Susan, a little more than a year after that. Her daughter and two grandsons survive.
        In 1952, the family moved to Central Park West and 101st Street, where Miss Gould remained as long as she worked. She took a bus to the office on West 43rd Street, carrying a small lunch in an old shoe bag. For amusement, Miss Gould, who belonged at one time to Mensa, an organization of the supersmart, would factor the four-digit bus identification numbers.
        In an interview in the summer of 1998, Miss Gould said she hoped to ''complete a century of Packards'' at The New Yorker. Her husband worked there for 45 years before he died in 1974. But for the stroke the year before, Miss Gould would have reached 55 years in 2000.
        She was proud of her status. She cited the pinnacle she reached in 1972: a separate credit in ''The Elements of Style,'' the hugely popular text written by William Strunk Jr. and revived by E.B. White. The citation, which says, ''The co-author, E.B. White, is most grateful to Eleanor Gould Packard for her assistance in preparation of this second edition,'' recognized her as the linguistic equivalent of the Pope's confessor.
        Interviewing Miss Gould for this obituary put the writer on the spot. Because she had been deaf since 1990, all questions had to be written; because of her status as a legendary editor, spelling counted. While asking about a Roger Angell statement, the interviewer at first wrote the name ''Angel,'' then added the second l. Miss Gould observed, ''I was going to say ''
        Always the arbiter, she added, with amusement, ''I'll have to stage a faked death and come back to correct my obit.''
      