
        Elsa H. Zion, a city official and former publishing executive who campaigned successfully to regulate the workload of interns and residents in New York State's hospitals after the highly publicized death of her daughter, Libby, in 1984, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her husband, the journalist Sidney Zion.
        For a decade, until shortly before her death, Ms. Zion was the deputy director of the Bureau of Senior Services, Resources and Partnerships at the New York City Department for the Aging. She was previously an assistant to Andrew J. Stein, then the City Council president.
        Libby Zion was 18 when she died in New York Hospital on March 5, 1984, having been admitted eight hours earlier with a high fever. In 1987, a grand jury report cited errors that it said could have contributed to her death. These included being given a painkiller that can interact lethally with the antidepressant drug that she had told doctors she was taking and remaining unmonitored by a doctor for four hours, during which time her temperature rose to 108 degrees. The hospital admitted in 1987 that it had failed to provide adequate care for her, and the State Department of Health fined it $13,000.
        After her death, the Zions pushed for limitations on the number of hours medical interns and residents could work each week, and in 1989, New York State adopted regulations limiting interns' and residents' hours and increasing their supervision by senior doctors.
        In 1995, a jury in a negligence suit brought by the Zions against the hospital and the doctors who treated their daughter found that an intern and two other doctors had contributed to her death. The jury absolved the hospital of wrongdoing.
        Elsa Ruth Heister was born in Winthrop, N.Y., on Feb. 24, 1935. She earned a bachelor's degree from Bard College and a master's in library science from the University of Chicago. In the 1970's and early 80's, she was president of Transworld Feature Syndicate.
        Besides her husband, a columnist for The Daily News, Ms. Zion is survived by two sisters, Sandra, of San Francisco, and Martha, of Miami; two brothers, Karl, of Portland, Me., and Robert, of Miami; two sons, Adam, of Brooklyn, and Jed, of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      