
        Ruth Warrick, who made her movie debut with Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and ended her career with the long-running role of Phoebe Tyler Wallingford on the television soap opera ''All My Children,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her manager, Carolyn Anthony.
        Ms. Warrick was not well known when she took the role of Emily Monroe Norton, the president's niece who marries the newspaper magnate Charles Foster Kane, in Welles's 1941 film classic. Three decades later, her role as Phoebe, the patrician matriarch of the Tyler family on ABC's ''All My Children,'' fixed her most indelibly in the American consciousness. She created the role when the show was first broadcast in 1970, and this month she made a final visit to its fictional setting, Pine Valley, to commemorate the soap opera's 35th anniversary.
        A striking woman with auburn hair, Ms. Warrick was born on June 29, 1916, in St. Joseph, Mo. In 1937, she won a contest to serve as Kansas City's paid ambassador and ended up making a many-feathered entrance in New York when she presented a live turkey to Mayor Fiorello La Guardia on the steps of City Hall. As Ms. Warrick recalled, the mayor was not impressed by the gift, but she managed to hang on in New York and began to work in radio.
        In 1940, when Welles was searching for talent for his epic ''Citizen Kane,'' he was referred to Ms. Warrick. He was impressed enough to cast her as the wife of his own character. In their most famous scene together, the Kanes' marriage disintegrates over the breakfast table, and she is finally seen reading his competitor's newspaper. Ms. Warrick was subsequently signed to a contract with RKO.
        She went on to appear in about 30 films, including ''Obliging Young Lady,'' ''The Corsican Brothers'' and ''Journey Into Fear,'' in which she again appeared with Welles. In theater, she worked extensively in summer stock and on Broadway, which she called her first love. She appeared with Debbie Reynolds in the 1973 musical ''Irene'' and starred with Jackie Gleason in the 1959 ''Take Me Along.'' But even with those substantial screen and stage credits, Ms. Warrick was grateful for her role as Phoebe, the haughty grande dame of Pine Valley.
        ''We have become the phenomenon of our time, the best game in town,'' she told The New York Times in 1985. ''In one week, we play to an audience larger than Clark Gable played to in his whole career. You say 'Phoebe,' and 50 million people know what you mean.''
        Susan Lucci, another original cast member of ''All My Children,'' who has played Erica Kane for more than three decades, said Ms. Warrick had little in common with the judgmental, status-driven Phoebe.
        ''I always counted myself lucky, especially at the beginning, to be in the presence of such a legendary, glamorous actress,'' Ms. Lucci said in a telephone interview. ''She would tell these wonderful stories about Orson Welles and the studios she worked at.''
        Ms. Lucci said Ms. Warrick had a playful side. In the 1970's, when streaking -- running naked through a public place -- was all the rage, she dashed through the set wearing nothing more than a fur coat, which she briefly opened for a laugh.
        Ms. Lucci said Ms. Warrick would frequently finish a day's work, fly to a charity event and then be back on the set the next day.
        Ms. Warrick was active in several charities, including the League School in Walpole, Mass., for autistic children. She taught in Operation Bootstrap, a Los Angeles program that provided teachers to poor neighborhoods, and at Julia Richman High School in Manhattan as part of President Jimmy Carter's Cities in Schools program.
        Ms. Warrick, who married five times, is survived by three children, Karen Langenwalter, Jon Rolf and Robert McNamara; a grandson; and six great-grandchildren. In addition to ''All My Children,'' she worked for five years on ''As the World Turns'' and played Hannah Cord in the 1960's prime-time soap opera ''Peyton Place,'' as well as in the 1985 made-for-television movie ''Peyton Place: The Next Generation.''
        But it was her role on ''A.M.C.,'' as her fans love to call it, that she treasured. As she said in 1985: ''You grab hold of one of those jobs, you don't want to let go.''
      