
        Cushing N. Dolbeare, a leading expert on federal housing policy and a longtime campaigner for affordable housing for low-income people, died on March 17 at her home in Mitchellville, Md. She was 78.
        The cause was cancer, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the research and advocacy group Ms. Dolbeare founded in 1974.
        A respected policy analyst and consultant, Ms. Dolbeare was an adviser to several secretaries of housing and urban development and was a former member of the President's Commission on Housing. In 1996, The New York Times Magazine called her ''the dean of housing advocates.''
        Ms. Dolbeare founded the coalition in response to President Richard M. Nixon's 1973 moratorium on federal housing subsidies. In the organization's early days, she ran it out of her Capitol Hill home. She was its executive director from 1977 to 1984 and from 1993 to 1994; at her death she was its chairwoman emeritus.
        As Ms. Dolbeare explained in an interview with The New York Times in 1983, the lack of affordable housing was for poor people a chronic problem with limited available solutions.
        ''Unlike food stamps or Medicaid or welfare, low-income housing is not an entitlement,'' she said. ''Just needing it does not mean you get it.''
        Mary Cushing Niles was born in Hartford on June 25, 1926, the daughter of Henry Edward Niles and the former Mary Cushing Howard. Her parents were management consultants, and Ms. Dolbeare had a peripatetic childhood as they moved around the country from one consulting job to the next. By the time she graduated from high school, she had attended 10 to 20 schools, her family said.
        Ms. Dolbeare earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Swarthmore College in 1949 and began her career as a housing advocate in 1951, as associate executive secretary of the Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore. From 1965 to 1971 she was managing director of the Housing Association of Delaware Valley and, from 1967 to 1968, a consultant for the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
        Ms. Dolbeare served on the President's Commission on Housing from 1981 to 1982. In 2002, she received the Heinz Award for the Human Condition from the Heinz Family Foundation; she was named a senior scholar at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard the same year.
        Ms. Dolbeare is survived by her husband, Louis P. Dolbeare; a sister, Alice Lynd of Niles, Ohio; two children, L. Niles Dolbeare of San Francisco and Mary Dolbeare O'Kane of Seattle; and four grandchildren.
      