
        Leona Rostenberg, a rare-book scholar and dealer who with her partner of 50 years, Madeleine B. Stern, discovered a series of racy novels written by Louisa May Alcott under a pseudonym, died on March 17 at her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 96.
        Ms. Rostenberg died after having heart problems for two years, said Abbey Lustgarten, a filmmaker who became friends with the two women while making a documentary about them.
        The discovery in 1942 of the works by Alcott, all written before she gained fame as the author of ''Little Women,'' brought a moment of detective-work thrill for Ms. Rostenberg and her partner and forever altered Alcott scholarship.
        A past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America, Ms. Rostenberg wrote numerous books herself: scholarly works on printing history, and memoirs written with Ms. Stern that twinned their love of literary sleuthing with reminiscences of their life together.
        Ms. Rostenberg's relationship with Ms. Stern, whom she met in 1930 and with whom she lived for nearly 50 years, runs like a constant thread through her decades in the world of rare books.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1995, Dinitia Smith described the partnership as ''both a love story and a detective story, a tale of doggedness and devotion to books and to each other.''
        That article led an editor to approach the women about doing a memoir of their lives; they had already written several books together about their profession and their experiences hunting down this or that volume. The result was ''Old Books, Rare Friends: Two Literary Sleuths and Their Shared Passion'' (Doubleday, 1997).
        In it they evaluated their own relationship on Page 3. Referring to the article in The Times, they wrote: ''Several readers inferred from it that our relationship was a lesbian one. This was a misconception. The 'deep, deep love' that existed and exists between us and that is mentioned in Dinitia Smith's last paragraph has no bearing upon sex.''
        The follow-up work, ''Bookends: Two Women, One Enduring Friendship'' (Free Press, 2001), focused even more on their relationship and intertwined personal lives, including a chapter called ''Men We Did Not Marry.''
        Leona Rostenberg was born in the Bronx on December 28, 1908, to Dr. Adolph and Louisa D. Rostenberg. Her father was a dermatologist. She met Ms. Stern in 1930 while she was a senior at New York University and Ms. Stern was a freshman at Barnard.
        Ms. Stern lent Ms. Rostenberg $1,000 to start her rare-book business and eventually joined her as partner. They lived first in Ms. Rostenberg's family house in the Bronx, and then in Manhattan.
        They made their discovery about Louisa May Alcott after being tipped off by a scholar that she might have written works under a pseudonym to pay the rent, but that the pseudonym was mystery.
        After seeing a reference to an ''A.M. Barnard'' in a correspondence between Alcott and a publisher, they knew they had found what -- or whom -- they had been looking for.
        The discovery caused a re-evaluation of Alcott's career. Eventually, one of the lost Alcott works, ''A Long Fatal Love Chase,'' was published.
        ''It completely changed the way people perceived Louisa May Alcott,'' Ms. Lustgarten said. ''What they knew about was 'Little Women,' and here were 'blood and thunder' tales -- meetings in opium dens and things like that. The polar opposite of 'Little Women' in the sense of being more risqué and passionate.''
        Ms. Rostenberg is survived by two cousins, Richard F. Koch and Marion Alexander.
      