
        Dr. Georgeanna S. Jones, who was half of a husband-and-wife team that created the first program for in vitro fertilization in the United States and its first ''test tube'' baby, died on Saturday at a hospital in Norfolk, Va. She was 92 and lived in Portsmouth, Va.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, Dr. Howard W. Jones.
        Dr. Georgeanna Jones, one of the country's first reproductive endocrinologists, was a quiet leader in her field for four decades at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where she taught and conducted research. But she unwittingly stepped into the national spotlight when she and her husband, a gynecological surgeon, moved to Eastern Virginia Medical School in 1978 and set out to open a clinic that would allow conception outside a mother's body.
        The first in vitro baby was born that same year, in England, but the procedure had never been accomplished in the United States. After three years and fierce denunciation from opponents who raised moral and ethical questions, Dr. Jones and her husband announced the birth of Elizabeth J. Carr on Dec. 28, 1981. Just slightly underweight at 5 pounds 12 ounces, Elizabeth was the first American ''test-tube baby.''
        ''It was a major development, which essentially allowed I.V.F. to develop and flourish in the United States,'' said Dr. Zev Rosenwaks, who trained under the Joneses and directs the Center for Reproductive Medicine and Infertility at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell.
        The news quickly led to a flood of attention, kindling hope in infertile couples around the country and prompting many doctors to converge on Norfolk to learn the procedure. More than 114,000 babies have since been born through in vitro fertilization in the United States, about 3,000 of them at the clinic in Norfolk now called the Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine.
        ''Literally right after they succeeded, every doctor interested in the field marched through Norfolk,'' said Sherry Sontag, the author of a coming book, ''One in a Million: A History of I.V.F. and the Quest to Make One Tiny Baby.'' ''They trained many of today's leading experts, and those they didn't train were taught by their students.''
        Dr. Jones is widely credited with inspiring generations of women in medicine. She lectured, wrote some 350 scientific articles and worked closely with many of the patients at her clinic. Slowly progressing Alzheimer's disease restricted her in the 1990's, but she kept an office at the institute and never lost touch with the first crop of children whose lives began in her laboratory.
        ''I always joked that they were like my second set of grandparents,'' said Ms. Carr, who is 23 now and lives in St. Petersburg, Fla., working as an online reporter for the Poynter Institute. ''They would call me every Christmas and birthday. For a while, all of the I.V.F. babies born at the clinic would travel down there for Mother's Day reunions. We all feel like brothers and sisters.''
        Ms. Carr says she wears a silver pendant, engraved with her initials and the number one, given to her by the Joneses.
        Born in Baltimore on July 6, 1912, Georgeanna Seegar earned her undergraduate degree from Goucher College there and her medical degree from Johns Hopkins. She was the daughter of an obstetrician, Dr. J. King Seegar, who also delivered her future husband.
        In 1939, while at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Jones helped establish and lead the first division of reproductive medicine in the country. Several decades later, she identified a disorder, called luteal phase defect, that causes deficiencies in the hormone progesterone and sometimes leads to miscarriages.
        In 1978, Dr. Jones and her husband left Johns Hopkins for Eastern Virginia Medical School shortly after the birth of the world's first in vitro baby was announced in England. The couple had not intended to open a clinic until a former patient of Dr. Georgeanna Jones, after reading about the birth, sent the Joneses a grant for $5,000 and encouraged them to do the same. They agreed, but almost backed out when opponents questioned whether the procedure would lead to selective breeding and the destruction of embryos.
        ''We only went ahead with it because the board of trustees at the medical school said, 'We're behind you, go ahead,''' Dr. Howard Jones said yesterday.
        Within a year of Elizabeth Carr's birth, the Joneses had helped deliver about 10 more in vitro babies.
        ''Despite the controversy,'' said Ms. Sontag, the writer, ''Georgeanna never lost sight of the fact that the most important part about I.V.F. was making babies.''
        In addition to her husband of 64 years, Dr. Jones is survived by two sons, Dr. Howard Wilbur Jones III of Nashville and Lawrence Massey Jones of Denver; a daughter, Dr. Georgeanna Jones Klingensmith of Denver; a brother, King Seegar of Towson, Md.; a sister, Elizabeth Seegar of Silver Spring, Md.; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      