
        Col. Mary A. Hallaren, who led the Women's Army Corps into the ranks of the regular military in 1948, died on Feb. 13 in McLean, Va. She was 97.
        Her death was announced by the Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., which made her a member in 1996.
        Colonel Hallaren commanded the first battalion of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps to serve in Europe, the largest unit of women to serve overseas in World War II. Shortly afterward the word auxiliary was dropped, making it the Women's Army Corps.
        She returned from three years in Britain and France with several decorations, including the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit and the Croix de Guerre of France. She was then among the officers who helped to overcome strong resistance and to persuade Congress to pass the Women's Armed Services Integration Act.
        Signed into law in 1948, the act accepted women into the regular armed services for the first time in United States history. Colonel Hallaren was the first woman to be sworn in as an officer of the Regular Army outside its medical branch.
        She was named director of the Women's Army Corps, Regular Army, which gave enlistees a chance to try for any noncombat position and provided for an initial peacetime strength of 18,000. But the rank of colonel was the highest Mary Hallaren attained even under the new system.
        She directed the corps during the Korean War until 1953, then had other military assignments. She decided to retire from the military in 1960, well before the Women's Army Corps was finally dissolved and women were formally integrated into all the services in the 1970's without restrictions on rank.
        ''The Greatest Generation,'' by Tom Brokaw (Random House, 1998), devoted much of a chapter to Mary Hallaren, who always said she was five feet tall and relied in her job on a no-nonsense presence and a voice that commanded attention.
        ''She was called the 'Little Colonel' because of her diminutive stature,'' Mr. Brokaw wrote, ''but when it came to promoting a wider role for women in the military, she was a towering figure, a godmother to the women who continued to struggle to find their places in the male-dominated military establishment.''
        After retiring, Colonel Hallaren helped organize Women in Community Service, an outgrowth of the civil rights and women's rights movements and the War Against Poverty of the 1960's. She became its first executive director in 1965 and oversaw its growth into a national organization, known as WICS.
        Based in Alexandria, Va., WICS recruits women for the Job Corps and helps women in need with job placements and other services. Colonel Hallaren retired once again in 1978.
        Mary Agnes Hallaren was born in Lowell, Mass., and studied there at State Teachers College. Certified as an instructor in remedial reading, she took courses in psychology and education at Harvard and Boston Universities.
        She enlisted in the WAAC in 1942 and trained at Officer Candidate School in Fort Des Moines, Iowa. She served as an administrative officer stateside until, by then a captain, she was named commanding officer of the WAAC Separate Battalion in July 1943 and sailed for England and duty with the Eighth Air Force.
        She became Air WAC staff director, in charge of WAC personnel assigned to both the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces, and was on duty during the V-1 and V-2 bombardments of London. In March 1945 she was named WAC director for the European Theater, commanding 6,000 members, the largest WAC contingent outside the United States.
        Mary Hallaren was teaching junior high school when Pearl Harbor was attacked, and she instinctively followed her brothers to enlist.
        ''To me there was no question that women should serve,'' she said later.
        She had to stand on her toes to meet the height requirement for enlistment. As she recalled it, she was challenged by a doubtful recruiter but passed muster after she told him, ''You don't have to be six feet tall to have a brain that works.''
      