
        Sara Stein, an influential advocate for gardening with native plants, died Feb. 25 at her home in Vinalhaven, Me. She was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Martin Stein.
        In ''Noah's Garden: Restoring the Ecology of Our Own Backyards'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1993), Ms. Stein lamented the effects of traditional suburban landscaping on her six-acre homestead in Pound Ridge, N.Y., three acres of which were scraped in the 1930's to provide topsoil for the 1939 New York World's Fair.
        She wrote how she and her husband had undertaken the process of ''ungardening,'' or changing what had become an environment of sterile lawn and plantings into carefully researched ecosystems representing swamp, prairie, rock barren and other native environments. The result attracted birds, small mammals and other wildlife.
        ''Noah's Garden,'' which mingled good-humored anecdotes about her family with widely applicable advice, caught the attention of gardeners and homeowners around the country and became a bible for a growing native landscape movement. Ms. Stein was soon in demand as a speaker to gardening and environmental groups.
        She followed the book with ''Planting Noah's Garden: Further Adventures in Backyard Ecology'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1997) and ''Noah's Children: Restoring the Ecology of Childhood'' (North Point Press, 2001), a meditation on the role the natural environment plays in childhood development.
        Ms. Stein was born Sara Bonnett in Manhattan on Oct. 7, 1935, the second of three daughters of Earl Clough Bonnett, an insurance medical examiner, and Sara Bonnett, a psychoanalyst. She attended Cornell College for a year and earned her bachelor's degree in Russian studies at the New School for Social Research. In 1959, she married Mr. Stein, an architect.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Stein is survived by four sons, Lincoln, of Glen Cove, N.Y.; Rafael, of Ramsey, N.J.; Joshua, of Acton, Mass.; and Aram, of Richmond, Calif.; two sisters, Suzanne Caffuzzi, of Manhattan, and Diantha Guessous, of Rabat, Morocco; and six grandchildren.
        Ms. Stein began her career as a toy designer, which led to her writing children's books. She started off in 1974 with a series on sensitive subjects like hospitals, dying and handicaps. The books were subtitled ''An Open Family Book for Parents and Children Together'' (Walker & Company). In 1979 she added ''On Divorce'' and ''The Adopted One'' to the series, and in 1983 ''About Phobias'' and ''Making Babies.'' The same year she published ''Girls and Boys: The Limits of Nonsexist Childrearing'' (Scribner's).
        Among her other books is a series on how to raise various pets that led to ''Great Pets: An Extraordinary Guide to Usual and Unusual Family Pets'' (Workman, 1976).
        Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992). Ms. Stein's focus turned to gardening with ''My Weeds: A Gardener's Botany'' (1988).
        Ms. Stein, who sometimes illustrated her own books, created a handmade dollhouse that was exhibited at the Museum of the City of New York for more than a year and became the basis of ''A Family Dollhouse'' (Viking, 1979).
      