
        Virginia Mayo, who began her film career as a chorus girl and comic foil and then proved herself an accomplished actress, died yesterday at a nursing home in Thousand Oaks, Calif., the Los Angeles suburb where she had lived for many years. She was 84.
        Her friend Mary Walsh told The Associated Press of her death.
        Ms. Mayo, who played opposite Bob Hope in ''The Princess and the Pirate'' (1944), cavorted with Danny Kaye in four of his early comedies, was badly abused by James Cagney in ''White Heat'' (1949) and sailed the seas romantically with Gregory Peck in ''Captain Horatio Hornblower'' (1952), was never completely able to overcome type casting that relied more on her good looks than her acting ability. But she won high critical praise for her performance as the unfaithful wife of a returning veteran in ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (1946), widely regarded as one of the finest movies to come out of the World War II homecoming experience.
        Bosley Crowther, reviewing the film for The New York Times, said that Ms. Mayo was ''brassy and brutal'' as the wife of an Air Force bombardier, played by Dana Andrews, who returns home with neither job nor prospects.
        In 1949, Ms. Mayo gave another highly regarded performance in ''White Heat,'' in which she played the wife of a psychopathic gangster.
        Ms. Mayo, whose real name was Virginia Clara Jones, was born on Nov. 30, 1920, in St. Louis, the daughter of Luke W. and Martha Raustenstrauch Jones. She studied dancing and was briefly in the ballet corps of the St. Louis Municipal Opera. She took the name Mayo from her brother-in-law, Andy Mayo, whose vaudeville act she joined in 1937. The act, known as Pansy the Horse, made it to Broadway in ''Banjo Eyes,'' a 1940 revue starring Eddie Cantor.
        In the early 1940's Ms. Mayo was given a screen test by the David O. Selznick studios, but no contract resulted. Samuel Goldwyn saw her in 1942 when she was performing in a revue at Billy Rose's Diamond Horseshoe in Manhattan and offered her a spot as a Goldwyn Girl.
        Goldwyn saw to it that she received acting and speech lessons. Eleanore King, then one of Hollywood's top charm teachers, had her doubts about Ms. Mayo, complaining that her cheeks ''were too fat for screen work.''
        Nevertheless, Ms. Mayo made her debut as a lead in 1944, playing opposite Bob Hope in ''The Princess and the Pirate,'' and then was given many roles in comedies and musicals. The films she made with Danny Kaye were ''Wonder Man'' (1945), ''The Kid From Brooklyn'' (1946), ''The Secret Life of Walter Mitty'' (1947) and ''A Song Is Born'' (1948). She also appeared as a Goldwyn Girl in the 1944 Kaye vehicle ''Up in Arms.''
        She made a number of adventure films, among them ''The Flame and the Arrow'' (1950) and ''The Iron Mistress'' (1952).
        Her film career began to fade in the 1950's. She appeared in ''She's Working Her Way Through College'' (1952), in which she co-starred with Ronald Reagan, but she never again got a prime dramatic role.
        She remained active with touring companies in the 1960's and 70's, appearing in productions of ''No, No, Nanette'' and ''Barefoot in the Park,'' among other shows. She also appeared on television, in shows like ''Murder, She Wrote,'' ''Santa Barbara'' and ''Remington Steele.''
        Ms. Mayo married Michael O'Shea, the actor, in 1947. He died in 1973. They had one daughter, Mary Catherine Johnston, who survives her, along with three grandsons.
      