
        Alice Thomas Ellis, a British novelist celebrated for her witty, unflinching dissections of middle-class domestic life, died on Tuesday in London. She was 72 and lived in Wales.
        A spokeswoman for Ms. Ellis's literary agent, Robert Kirby, confirmed the death. No cause was given, but several British newspapers reported that Ms. Ellis had been ill with lung cancer for some time.
        Far better known in Britain than in the United States, Ms. Ellis's fiction defied easy categorization. With its blend of the transcendently spiritual and the achingly mundane, her work was compared, variously, to that of Virginia Woolf, Evelyn Waugh, Iris Murdoch and Muriel Spark.
        Alice Thomas Ellis was the pseudonym of Anna Margaret Haycraft, who under her real name was an editor at Gerald Duckworth, the London publishing house run by her husband, Colin Haycraft.
        Under her pen name, Ms. Ellis wrote a dozen slender novels, most published by Duckworth, among them ''The Sin Eater'' (1977); ''The Birds of the Air'' (1980); ''The Summer House,'' a trilogy (Penguin, 1994); and ''Fairy Tale'' (Moyer Bell, 1998). Her novel ''The 27th Kingdom'' (1982) was finalist for the Booker Prize.
        She also published several nonfiction works, including ''A Welsh Childhood'' (Moyer Bell, 1997) and ''Serpent on the Rock: A Personal View of Christianity'' (Hodder & Stoughton, 1994).
        Reviewing ''The Summer House'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1994, Francine Prose wrote, ''Its quick humor, prickly ironies and lack of portentous self-importance may mislead casual readers into overlooking its true heft, its provocative and disturbing shrewdness.''
        Shot through with melancholy, Ms. Ellis's novels focus on the small savageries, deep discontents and abiding grief of women's lives. Yet they are also mordantly funny sendups of bourgeois manners. Sometimes, as in the work of Shirley Jackson, the gothic overlays the domestic, to unsettling effect. Many of Ms. Ellis's characters are repellent, and they are meant to be.
        A spare stylist, Ms. Ellis could sketch a devastating portrait in a single phrase. In ''The Birds of the Air,'' she describes one character, an academic, as a man whose ''insistence on ordinary language and absolute clarity of expression rendered his discourse unintelligible to the ordinary person.''
        Ms. Ellis was born Anna Margaret Lindholm in Liverpool on Sept. 9, 1932, and raised in Wales. Her father and mother were devout secular humanists, and at 19, Anna rebelled by converting to Roman Catholicism.She entered a convent as a postulant, but back problems forced her to leave the order, with its requirement of physical labor. She settled in London, where she met Mr. Haycraft; they were married in 1956 and had seven children. She eventually joined him as a fiction editor at Duckworth, where her list of writers included the novelist Beryl Bainbridge.
        In 1977 Ms. Ellis published her own first novel, ''The Sin Eater.'' Set in Wales, it tells of a family drawn uneasily home by the impending death of its patriarch. In The Spectator, Peter Ackroyd praised the book for ''its wit: the relentlessness of domestic life, the knives only just sheathed in time.'' Ms. Ellis's pen name, chosen perhaps for its sibilant hiss, suited her style of elegant malice.
        Ms. Ellis, who also wrote on domestic life and religion for several British publications, remained a passionately traditional Catholic who deplored efforts to modernize the church. In 1996 she was fired as a columnist for The Catholic Herald after she attacked the reforms of Derek Worlock, archbishop of Liverpool, who had recently died.
        Ms. Ellis is survived by four sons, William, Thomas, Oliver and Arthur, and a daughter, Sarah. Another daughter, Rosalind Mary, died in infancy, and a son, Joshua, died in an accident as a teenager. Ms. Ellis's husband died in 1994.
        Throughout her work, on subjects large and small, Ms. Ellis was concerned with the futility of connection. In 1987 The Times of London asked several prominent people to compose a Valentine's Day verse. Ms. Ellis's submission began, dryly: ''Men love women/Women love children/Children love hamsters.''
      