
        Nellie McCaslin, a theater historian and educator considered the country's leading authority on children's theater, died on Feb. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications after a heart attack, her niece and survivor, Alexandra Plotkin, said.
        Until her retirement in 1985, Dr. McCaslin was a professor of educational theater at New York University; she continued to teach at N.Y.U.'s Steinhardt School of Education until 2002. She wrote two college textbooks considered classics in the field: ''Theater for Children in the United States: A History'' (University of Oklahoma, 1971) and ''Creative Drama in the Classroom and Beyond,'' to be published by Allyn & Bacon this spring in its eighth edition. She also published numerous scholarly articles, as well as books and plays for children.
        Though drama by and for children is considered a ghetto by many theater professionals, to Dr. McCaslin it was a serious artistic enterprise. Theater, she wrote in a 1990 article, ''is finding recognition as an art that contributes to the emotional, intellectual and social development of the child.''
        Nellie McCaslin was born in Cleveland on Aug. 20, 1914. She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from what was then Western Reserve University and, in 1957, a Ph.D. from N.Y.U. She joined the university's faculty in 1972 and from 1973 to 1985 was director of undergraduate studies at N.Y.U.'s Gallatin School of Individualized Study.Dr. McCaslin was a past president of the Children's Theater Association of America and in 1996 received the lifetime achievement award of the American Alliance for Theater in Education.
        In her late 80's, after a hiatus of four decades, Dr. McCaslin returned to the stage as an actor.
        ''She was very well loved down here,'' said R. Rex Stephenson, artistic director of the Blue Ridge Dinner Theater in Virginia, who cast Dr. McCaslin in several shows, including a production of ''Steel Magnolias'' last year. ''She's probably the only person that could cash a check from New York in Rocky Mount, Va., because everybody knew who she was.''
      