
        Elizabeth Crow, a magazine editor, writer and executive who revitalized Parents magazine, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, her son, Samuel Crow, said.
        As editor in chief of Parents magazine from 1978 to 1988, Ms. Crow developed and carried out an overhaul in both appearance and content. She also created a line of books on child development with Ballantine Books and a series of similar videos.
        She changed the magazine's approach, said her friend Betsy Carter, a writer and magazine editor. ''She made it O.K. to admit that children could be difficult,'' she said. ''That was a big change back then.''
        In 1988, after Ms. Crow accepted the job of editor in chief of Self magazine, the publisher of Parents lured her back as chief executive officer of its American division, Gruner & Jahr USA, a unit of Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany. There she redesigned all seven of Gruner & Jahr's magazines; the company's revenues rose by more than 50 percent. She also e-launched YM and created BabyCare, along with three magazines for Spanish-speaking Americans.
        Elizabeth Venture Smith was born in Manhattan on July 29, 1946, the eldest of six children of Harrison Venture Smith, a senior executive at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, and Marlis deGreve Smith. After earning her B.A. from Mills College in 1968, she worked at The New Yorker briefly, attended Brown University to work toward a master's, then left to become an editor at New York magazine, where she stayed for 10 years before going to Parents.
        In 1974, she married Patrick Crow, whom she met when he was an editor at The New Yorker. The marriage ended in divorce. She is survived by their three children, Samuel, of Manhattan; Rachel, of Brooklyn; and Sarah, of Manhattan; two brothers, Spencer Smith of Lee, N.H.; and Oliver Smith of Manhattan; two sisters, Anne Smith Tucker of Philadelphia, and Sarah Smith of Manhattan; and one grandchild.
        In 1993, Ms. Crow left Gruner & Jahr to become editor in chief of Mademoiselle. In 2001, she joined Rodale publications as vice president and editorial director. The next year she was editorial director of Primedia's consumer magazine and media group, and at her death was editorial director of Consumers Union.
      