
        Moura Lympany, the colorful and elegant British concert pianist whose career lasted more than 65 years, died on March 28 in Menton, France. She was 88.
        Her death was confirmed by her former French managers, Bureau de Concerts de Valmalete.
        Ms. Lympany avoided specialization, yet she is often associated with Russian music, particularly Rachmaninoff (she was the first to record his complete Preludes) and Khachaturian. She gave Khachaturian's piano concerto its first performances outside the Soviet Union, touring with it in 1940.
        She also championed British composers, like Alan Rawsthorne (whose piano concerto she played in Paris immediately after the liberation in World War II), Cyril Scott, Benjamin Dale and others.
        Ms. Lympany was born Mary Gertrude Johnstone on Aug. 18, 1916, in Saltash, Cornwall, England. Her mother, who had been a governess in St. Petersburg, Russia, before marrying an army officer, was her first piano teacher, and sent her to school in a convent in Liège, Belgium, when she was 6, setting the tone for a nomadic and international life.
        After a few years in Belgium, Ms. Lympany returned to London, where she heard a child prodigy play a concerto with the conductor Basil Cameron and asked her mother if she could do the same. She made her concerto debut under Cameron when she was 12, playing the Mendelssohn G-minor Concerto. It was Cameron who advised her to spice up her name a bit, so she replaced her first name with Moura, a Russian diminutive, and Lympany, a variant of her mother's maiden name.
        She studied in Vienna with Paul Weingarten, then in London with Mathilde Verne and Tobias Matthay, who remained an important influence. In the first Liszt competition in Budapest in 1933, she took second place to Annie Fischer; in the 1938 Queen Elisabeth International Competition of Belgium she came in second to Emil Gilels. During World War II she became popular in Britain by performing in the National Gallery lunchtime concerts organized by Dame Myra Hess.
        After the war she embarked on a major international career. She made her New York debut in 1948 at Town Hall; Noel Straus in The New York Times described her playing as having ''a refreshing and irresistible wholesomeness, a freedom from exaggerations, an impeccable taste, a sanity, and at the same time a definite individuality.''
        In 1944 she married Colin Defries, a colonel, engineer and amateur pianist; they were divorced in 1950. In 1951 she married Bennet Korn, an American radio-advertising executive. She had two miscarriages before giving birth to a premature baby who lived less than two days. The second marriage ended in 1961. Ms. Lympany later had a double mastectomy and a difficult period in her career, but had a minor renaissance in the 1970's.
        She lived in London, Monte Carlo and the French village Rasiguères in the Languedoc, where in 1981 she founded a festival ''of music and wine'' that ran through 1992. A passionate gardener, she also owned a vineyard. She wrote her autobiography in 1991.
        She became somewhat infamous in Britain for her appearance on the popular radio program ''Desert Island Discs.'' When asked to choose which records she would take with her to a desert island, she selected her own recordings.
        ''My records are damned good,'' she said.
      