
        Faith McNulty, a New Yorker staff writer who wrote many books about animals and country life for adults and children, died last Sunday at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 86. The cause was complications of a stroke, her sister, Elisabeth Keiffer, said.
        In 1980, Ms. McNulty notably departed from her usual subjects with "The Burning Bed: The True Story of an Abused Wife" (Harcourt), an account of how in 1977 Francine Hughes, a battered Michigan housewife, killed her husband by setting him on fire after he passed out from drinking. She was acquitted of murder by reason of temporary insanity.
        In 1984, the book was made into an NBC-TV movie, with a de-glamorized Farrah Fawcett as the star. The film enhanced Ms. Hughes's image as an advocate for women's rights.
        But Ms. McNulty's more usual line of work was books like "The Whooping Crane: The Bird That Defies Extinction" (Dutton, 1966) and "How to Dig a Hole to the Other Side of the World" (Harper, 1979), with illustrations by Marc Simont.
        Ms. McNulty came to her interests early. Although a city child, born in New York on Nov. 28, 1918, she spent her childhood summers on her grandmother's farm in Wakefield. Her father, Joseph Eugene Corrigan, was a judge. Her original name was Faith Trumbull Corrigan.
        Intending to become a writer, she attended Barnard College in 1937-38, but dropped out after a creative-writing teacher told her she had no talent.
        In 1938, she married Charles M. Fair, a writer. The marriage ended in divorce. In 1945, she married John McNulty. She met him about 1942, her sister said in a telephone interview, when she was one of the first three copy girls hired by The Daily News, where he was a rewrite man. He had begun to sell stories to The New Yorker, and went to work there in 1944. He helped her to sell her first piece to the magazine. A decade later, in 1953, she was hired by the editor William Shawn as a Talk of the Town reporter.
        After her husband's death, in 1956, Ms. McNulty settled permanently on a farm they had bought in Wakefield and began to write books. In 1957, she married Richard H. Martin, a prop designer for the theater. He died in 1984.
        In addition to her sister, Ms. McNulty is survived by a son, John Joseph McNulty of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      