
        Nell Rankin, an American mezzo-soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 25 years and was highly regarded for her warm-toned portrayals of Amneris in Verdi's ''Aida'' and in the title role in Bizet's ''Carmen,'' died last Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. She was 81, and lived in New York.
        Her husband, Dr. Hugh Clark Davidson, said the cause was polycythemia vera, a bone marrow disease.
        During her years at the Met, Ms. Rankin sang many of the major dramatic mezzo-soprano roles. Among them were Amneris, with which she made her debut on Nov. 22, 1951, and several other Verdi roles -- Eboli in ''Don Carlo,'' Azucena in ''Il Trovatore'' and Ulrica in ''Un Ballo en Maschera,'' as well as Carmen, Ortrud in Wagner's ''Lohengrin,'' Santuzza in Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' and Herodias in Strauss's ''Salome.'' She ended her Met career in 1976, singing Laura in Ponchielli's ''Gioconda.''
        Nell Rankin was born in Birmingham, Ala., on Jan. 3, 1924, and she studied with Jeanne Lorraine at the Birmingham Conservatory. She was a determined performer, and when the soprano Helen Traubel visited Birmingham to sing a recital in 1943 Ms. Rankin went backstage and persuaded Ms. Traubel's accompanist, Coenraad Bos, to hear her sing. On Bos's advice, she moved to New York to continue her studies with Karin Branzell. She made her debut at Town Hall, in a joint recital with her sister, Ruth Rankin, a soprano, in March 1947. Her operatic debut in New York was in a production of ''Aida'' at the Salmaggi Opera Company, in Brooklyn, in which she sang Amneris and her sister sang the title role.
        In 1948, Ms. Rankin joined the Zurich Opera Company, where she made her debut as Ortrud in ''Lohengrin'' in 1949, and went on to sing 126 performances in her first year. Her breakthrough, though, came in 1950, when she became the first American singer to win the first prize at the International Music Competition in Geneva.
        That victory led to her debuts at La Scala and at the Vienna State Opera, both as Amneris, in 1951, and to her Met debut in the same role later that year. Debuts at Covent Garden and the San Francisco Opera followed in 1953. On both occasions, she sang the title role in ''Carmen.''
        In addition to her performances at the Met, Ms. Rankin continued to sing at major houses around the world, including La Scala, where she sang Cassandra, in Berlioz's ''Troyens,'' in 1960, and the Teatro San Carlo, in Naples, where she sang Adalgisa in Bellini's ''Norma,'' in 1963. She also sang with companies in Chicago, Fort Worth, Buenos Aires, Havana, Mexico City and Athens.
        Ms. Rankin was the star of a CBS television production of ''Carmen'' in 1954, and she made several recordings, including a 1961 account of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' in which she sang Suzuki and Renata Tebaldi sang the title role. The performance was recently reissued by Naxos Records.
        After she retired from the Met, Ms. Rankin devoted herself to teaching, first at the Academy of Vocal Arts in Philadelphia, and then privately in New York until she retired in 1991.
        She is survived by her husband.
      