
        Maria Schell, an Austrian actress who achieved international fame in Hollywood and became a major star of German-language films, died on Tuesday at her home in Preitenegg, Austria. She was 79.
        The cause was heart failure, the mayor of Preitenegg, Franz Kogler, told the German news agency Deutsche Presse-Agentur.
        Before she went to Hollywood in the 1950's, Ms. Schell, who was sometimes called ''the blond angel,'' was already a celebrated film figure in Austria, Germany and Switzerland, where she was often typecast as a charming girl from the Alps.
        Ms. Schell was named best actress at the Cannes film festival in 1954 for her portrayal of a young doctor in ''Die Letzte Brücke'' (''The Last Bridge'') and became internationally known for her role as Grushenka in ''The Brothers Karamazov'' in 1958.
        She also appeared in several American movies alongside actors like Gary Cooper, in ''The Hanging Tree'' in 1959, and Marlon Brando, in ''Superman'' in 1978.
        Ms. Schell made more than 200 film and television appearances, mostly in German. She was also a prominent stage actress in Austria and Germany.
        She was born in Vienna on Jan. 15, 1926, the daughter of a Swiss writer and an Austrian actress. She grew up with three siblings who all went into acting, including Maximilian, her younger brother by four years, who also became a star. In 1938, the family moved to Switzerland, where, in 1942, at the age of 16, she appeared in her first film, the Swiss ''Der Steinbruch'' (''The Quarry'').
        Even though her debut was not very successful, Ms. Schell decided to study drama in Zurich. She did not make another movie until she starred in Karl Hartl's Austrian-German 1948 production ''Der Engel mit der Posaune'' (''The Angel With the Trumpet''), the first film to bring her recognition abroad.
        In 2002, Ms. Schell made her last public appearance at a presentation of ''Meine Schwester Maria'' (''My Sister Maria''), Maximilian's documentary about her life.
        The Austrian film critic Alexander Horwath said she was ''one of the very few stars of postwar German-speaking cinema who had a lasting impact on the international film scene,'' Agence France-Presse reported.
        Ms. Schell's two marriages ended in divorce. Her first husband was the film director Horst Hächler. Her second marriage, to the Austrian actor Veit Relin, ended after 22 years in 1988. In her last years, Ms. Schell suffered several strokes and led a secluded life at her home in the Alps.
        Survivors include Maximilian; her son, Oliver, from her first marriage; and her daughter, Marie-Theres, from her second marriage.
      