
        Geraldine Stutz, who transformed Henri Bendel from a carriage trade retailer in decline into a chic emporium of designer brands in the 1960's, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 80.
        Her death came after a long illness, said her stepdaughter, Emma Turner.
        Ms. Stutz is best known for her 29-year career as the president of Henri Bendel, with a legendary eye for discovering the newest designers and using them first, installing their collections in elaborately merchandised departments that heralded the introduction of a new generation of fashion stars -- Stephen Burrows, Perry Ellis, Jean Muir, Sonia Rykiel, Carlos Falchi, Mary McFadden, Holly Harp and Ralph Lauren among them.
        Many longtime Bendel shoppers recall Ms. Stutz's 1958 overhaul of the main floor at the store, at 10 West 57th Street, into a U-shaped ''Street of Shops'' widely acknowledged as a precursor to modern shop-in-shop merchandising displays. Based on her taste alone, Ms. Stutz divided merchandise into small vitrines of watches, handbags, stockings, and along one side, an inspiring ''Gilded Cage,'' a giant replica of a birdcage that housed the cosmetics department.
        ''Geraldine had a vision of the kind of store she wanted to create,'' said Jean Rosenberg, who was the vice president and merchandising director at Bendel's from six months before Ms. Stutz's arrival in 1957 to their joint departure in 1986, after the store was sold to The Limited. ''It was for a particular kind of New York woman, where she could find a uniformity of taste and a certain amount of comfort in a smallish environment, where everything in one store was to her liking.''
        Ms. Stutz was born in Chicago on Aug. 5, 1924. She aspired to an acting career and studied drama at Mundelein College before changing her focus to journalism. She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
        Colleagues described Ms. Stutz as an industrious learner who immersed herself in the subject matter. Grace Mirabella, the former editor of Mirabella magazine, recalled an introduction to Ms. Stutz in the early 1950's, when Ms. Mirabella was working at Vogue. ''She loved to talk about the business and what was going on behind the scenes, and she knew everything about shoes,'' Ms. Mirabella said.
        Ms. Stutz put her knowledge to practical use when she went to work for several footwear manufacturers, including I. Miller, the company for which Andy Warhol designed advertisements, after it was sold to the conglomerate Genesco. Maxey Jarman, its president, recognized in Ms. Stutz an ability for merchandising and advertising, and named her to run the Henri Bendel store in 1957. ''Jarman had talked to her at great length about her vision for the store,'' Ms. Rosenberg said. ''It was not going to be a store for everybody.''
        Bendel's was known at various times as a hat shop and as the source of the Duke of Windsor's wardrobe, but Ms. Stutz's concept was narrowly focused on a young, sophisticated urban woman, and she rarely ordered clothes larger than size 10. In an article in New York magazine in 1987, Ms. Stutz described her taste for what she called ''dog whistle'' fashion: ''clothes with a pitch so high and special that only the thinnest and most sophisticated women would hear their call.'' She was also one of the first retailers to consider merchandising food and furniture alongside fashion, and she made way for the in-store designer boutique in the late 1960's, as she did for Ms. Rykiel.
        ''She recognized that fashion was more than just about clothing; it was about lifestyle and how one lives,'' said Joan Kaner, the fashion director of Neiman Marcus, who worked under Ms. Stutz from 1967 to 1976. ''She thought to put in perfumed candles and potpourri at the entrances so that when people walked in, they got this wonderful aroma. She was born with impeccable taste, and practically brought over every European designer who ever came to America.''
        Ms. Stutz's Street of Shops replaced what was formerly a dimly lit floor with merchandise randomly displayed along a 100-foot corridor. She installed marble floors and boutiques, small shops within the larger store that changed each season, stocked with exclusive merchandise culled from markets around the world -- a flower shop, stationery, a tiny art gallery, tabletop items from Frank MacIntosh, Lee Bailey's home displays, and a boutique called ''Port of Call'' with objects from Vietnam and Thailand.
        Ms. Rosenberg recalled her instructions to travel to Paris to explore the new market for ready-to-wear in 1959, when Ms. Stutz told her, ''Buy anything you want.''
        ''It was a store that was edited like a magazine,'' Ms. Mirabella said. ''It was everybody's meeting place on Saturdays or at Christmastime.''
        Ms. Stutz took the in-store-shop concept further in the late 1960's with boutiques dedicated to the collections of designers she felt could succeed with the store's support. Stephen Burrows opened his boutique there in 1969, an experience he recalled as a defining moment of his career (one he replicated in 2002 at Bendel's current site: 712 Fifth Avenue).
        In 1980, Ms. Stutz assembled a team of investors and acquired the store from Genesco. Five years later she sold her interest, and worked as a publisher with Random House, overseeing books on Andy Warhol and Elsie de Wolfe. She also continued to consult with designers and retailers through a practice called GSG Group, which she founded in 1993.
        Ms. Stutz's mid-1960's marriage to David Gibbs, an art dealer and painter, ended in divorce, her stepdaughter, Ms. Turner, said.
        Robert Rufino, the vice president of creative services at Tiffany & Co., is one of the many retail executives who found their start with Ms. Stutz. He designed windows for the company in the 1970's, and recalled Ms. Stutz's ability to intermingle her interests in art and film with fashion.
        ''In those days, there was nothing else like Henri Bendel,'' Mr. Rufino said. ''It was like working for the best house in the world. To take this little town house and make it look like someone lived there, as you were going from room to room -- it was just one woman's vision on the world of fashion, and yet it did incredibly well.''
      