
        Dr. Jeanne Petrek, a cancer researcher known for her investigations into the aftermath of breast cancer surgery, especially its impact on fertility, was killed in an accident in Manhattan on Monday. She was 57 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Dr. Petrek died in surgery, hours after being struck by an ambulette while crossing the street at Second Avenue and 64th Street. At the time, she was on her way to work at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, where she directed the surgical program at the Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center.
        At the time of her death, she was also an attending surgeon in the Breast Service of Memorial Sloan-Kettering's Department of Surgery, and a professor of surgery at Cornell University School of Medicine.
        Dr. Petrek was a leading expert on pregnancy-associated breast cancer and the causes of lymphedema, a swelling in the arm and hand that can develop after removal of lymph nodes under the arm. Lymphedema is one of the most common complications after the procedure.
        In her 20 years at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, she treated more than 4,000 women and sought ways to provide them not just a longer life but a better one after recovery. One method she pursued was to limit the removal to only one or two lymph nodes -- the sentinel nodes, as they are known -- to which the cancer was likely to spread first, as determined by biopsy.
        ''The hallmark of Jeanne Petrek's career was that she was the ultimate patient advocate,'' said Patrick Borgen, chief of the breast service. He said that while most public spending promoted the search for treatments aimed at prolonging life, Dr. Petrek hoped to improve the quality of life for cancer patients.
        Dr. Borgen said Dr. Petrek borrowed a euphemism from the military, ''collateral damage,'' to refer to unwanted aftereffects of cancer therapy. Much of her work focused on the means of countering them with hormonal and other treatments.
        A central question for Dr. Petrek, Dr. Borgen said, was: ''How safe was it for a young woman to get pregnant after breast cancer?''
        She sought the answer in a 10-year study she was about to complete on the changes in ovarian function resulting from breast cancer treatment, like premature menopause, infertility and the overall effect on the quality of the patient's life. She followed the histories of 800 women 44 and younger who had undergone chemotherapy. About half of them were still menstruating after five years, she told The New York Times last September.
        According to Memorial Sloan-Kettering, hers was the first extensive study ever undertaken of the safety of pregnancy for such women. Some preliminary findings will be reported to the American Society of Clinical Oncology in Orlando, Fla., next month, Dr. Borgen said. He said Dr. Petrek's investigation would be completed by Dr. Kimberly Van Zee, a senior researcher who had been part of it from the start.
        Jeanne Petrek was born in Youngstown, Ohio. She graduated in 1969 from Case Western Reserve, where she also received her medical degree in 1973. After her internship and residency in surgery at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, she first came to Memorial Sloan-Kettering on a surgical oncology fellowship in 1978-80.
        From 1980 to 1984 she was an assistant professor of surgery at Emory University School of Medicine and was on the staffs of Grady Memorial and Emory University Hospitals. She continued her academic career at Cornell in 1984 when she returned to Memorial Sloan-Kettering as an assistant attending surgeon in the breast service of the medicine department.
        She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jeffrey M. Duban; a daughter, Jean Petrek-Duban of Brooklyn; a son, Paul Petrek-Duban of Bronxville; her mother, Emily Petrek of Manhattan; three brothers, John Petrek of Bainbridge Island, Wash., Jim Petrek of Danville, Calif., and Jerry Petrek of Denver.
      