
        Ida Libby Dengrove, a New York courtroom artist who visualized the moods and faces of some notorious trials for the television audience, died on Wednesday while on a family visit to Los Angeles. She was 86 and lived in Ocean Township, N.J.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
        A portrait painter away from court, Mrs. Dengrove worked as a courtroom illustrator for NBC-TV from 1973 to 1986. It allowed her to take her sketch pad where cameras were forbidden and capture the proceedings in her own distinctive style.
        Her pictorial reportage won two Emmy awards. She was cited for her newscast illustrations of the sensational Son of Sam trial of David Berkowitz (1977-78), and again for the Murder at the Met trial (1980-81) of Craig S. Crimmins, the stagehand convicted of slaying a young violinist, Helen Hagnes Mintiks.
        She sketched the principals in the trial of Jean Harris for the murder of Dr. Herman Tarnower and documented court appearances by John Lennon, Senator Harrison A. Williams Jr., John W. Hinckley Jr., John J. Gotti and Gen. William C. Westmoreland, to name a few. Some of her sketches, meant for television, also turned up on the front pages of newspapers.
        Ida Libby Leibovitz was born in Philadelphia, where she later graduated, in 1940, from Moore College of Art and Design. She taught art in the city's public school system until World War II, which she spent touring the United States for the U.S.O., sketching servicemen.
        Later in her career, she taught again and lectured at various colleges and organizations.
        Mrs. Dengrove's husband of 64 years, Dr. Edward Dengrove, a psychiatrist, died in 2003. She is survived by two sons, Richard A., of Arlington, Va., and Robert S., of Ocean Township; a daughter, Lois Ann, of Los Angeles; and four granddaughters.
        Mrs. Dengrove herself fell victim to a crime in 1982. Eighty of her courtroom sketches were mounted in a lobby show at the United States Court House at Foley Square, a gallery of the famous in a place normally brimming with guards and federal marshals.
        Yet one Monday morning, a portrait of John Lennon and Yoko Ono was gone from its place high up on a wall. She had caught the couple in pastel in 1975, when deportation charges against Lennon were dropped, and -- her usual procedure -- had kept the original after it was taped for broadcast.
        ''They took it like they took the Mona Lisa,'' she noted at the time. ''They removed it from the frame and left the frame and mat on the lobby floor.''
        ''Somebody must have climbed on a chair,'' she said.
      