
        Evelyn Annenberg Jaffe Hall, a New York arts patron for 50 years and a supporter of medical institutions, died on April 22 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 93 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hall, a sister of the late publisher Walter H. Annenberg, shared her fortune with many beneficiaries. Among her favorites were the Museum of Modern Art and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mrs. Hall was born in Milwaukee. Her parents were Moses and Sadie Annenberg. She graduated from the Calhoun School and studied at the Art Students League of New York. With her second husband, William Jaffe, she assembled an outstanding art collection that included European paintings, sculpture and antique furniture; Chinese porcelain; pre-Colombian artifacts; and Renaissance drawings.
        A member of the Modern Museum's International Council since 1970, a trustee since 1979 and a leading member of various museum committees, she stood in the forefront of donors to its collections. Among the works she gave to the museum were pieces by Bonnard, Picasso, Miró and Vuillard. Another notable gift, made with Mr. Jaffe, was a selection of 16 prints by Edvard Munch.
        Mrs. Hall was a benefactor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Museum as well. She financed a scholarship in art history at Yale University and in 1960 endowed the Jaffe-Friede Art Gallery at Dartmouth College.
        She was also a donor to Mount Sinai Hospital, where she endowed a lecture series at the medical school.
        Mrs. Hall's first marriage, to Kenneth Friede, ended in divorce. In 1947 she married Mr. Jaffe, a corporate lawyer; he died in 1972. She later married Melville Hall of Palm Beach, who died in 1991. She is survived by three sons, John Friede of Rye, N.Y., Robert Friede of Newton, Mass., and Thomas Jaffe of Manhattan; a sister, Enid Haupt of Greenwich, Conn.; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      