
        Raisa Struchkova, one of the Soviet Union's leading ballerinas in the Bolshoi Ballet when that company first took audiences abroad by storm in the 1950's and 60's, died in Moscow on Monday, the Bolshoi Theater announced. She was 79 and lived in Moscow.
        Ms. Struchkova was highly praised at home for her classical dancing, especially in ''Giselle'' and ''Cinderella.'' But for American audiences who were stunned by the athletic vigor of the Bolshoi at its New York debut in 1959, Ms. Struchkova will always be associated with the high-flying virtuosity that she showed in Soviet-style bravura duets with her husband, Aleksandr Lapauri.
        Their signature piece in this genre was ''Moszkowski Waltz,'' choreographed by Assaf Messerer. Ms. Struchkova and Mr. Lapauri, dressed in white, wowed audiences with acrobatic lifts and tosses for the ballerina and then moved to opposite ends of the stage before she raced across and threw herself into her partner's arms. Even in the 1960's, when their performances were no longer a novelty, viewers in the Metropolitan Opera House sprang to their feet in a frenzy.
        Yet Ms. Struchkova's main teacher at the Bolshoi school was Yelizaveta Gerdt, the epitome of refined classical style. After Mr. Lapauri died in 1975, Ms. Struchkova retired from dancing in 1978 and coached younger ballerinas, including Nina Ananiashvili, in the 19th-century classics.
        The daughter of a factory worker, Ms. Struchkova was born in Moscow on Oct. 5, 1925, and graduated from the Bolshoi school in 1944. She joined the company that year. Already noticed for what Soviet critics called her femininity as well as her strong technique, she showed off a comic gift in her first major role as Lise in ''La Fille Mal Gardée'' in 1946. Although she was not the first ballerina to dance the title role in the Bolshoi's ''Cinderella,'' choreographed to Prokofiev's score by Rostislav Zakharov in 1945, she triumphed in the part in 1947 with the expressive simplicity of her portrayal. She never achieved the international superstar status of Galina Ulanova and Maya Plisetskaya at the Bolshoi. But ''Cinderella'' made her a star.
        Possibly influenced by her bravura in the showpiece duets (which included another ''Waltz,'' to music by Dunievsky), some critics in the international ballet world considered Ms. Struchkova too much of a powerhouse performer to be a model in the classics. Yet she danced the leading roles in ''Swan Lake,'' ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Giselle,'' ''Don Quixote,'' and ''The Nutcracker'' and in contemporary Soviet ballets, including ''Romeo and Juliet.'' The government awarded her the order of Lenin and named her People's Artist of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
        She taught ballet from 1962 at GITIS, the State Theatrical Institute of the Arts, and from 1978 was a ballet mistress and coach at the Bolshoi. From 1981 to 1995 she was the founding editor of the magazine Ballet, originally called Soviet Ballet.
      