
        Betty Talmadge, a former first lady of Georgia and a prominent Washington hostess who had a second career as a businesswoman, restaurateur and cookbook author after her divorce from Senator Herman E. Talmadge, died on Saturday in Atlanta. She was 81.
        Mrs. Talmadge died after a long illness, her son, Gene, said.
        Mrs. Talmadge was married to Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat and the scion of a powerful Georgia political family, from 1941 until their divorce in 1977. A former Georgia governor who served four terms in the United States Senate, from 1957 to 1981, Mr. Talmadge died in 2002.
        In 1979, Mrs. Talmadge testified before the Senate Select Committee on Ethics against her former husband, who was accused of improperly using campaign and office money.
        As Georgia's first lady in the 1940's and 50's, Mrs. Talmadge was known for her lavish parties filled with antebellum charm. At the Talmadge family plantation in Lovejoy, Ga., 25 miles south of Atlanta, partygoers might be greeted by soldiers dressed in Confederate gray, Dixieland banjo players and the family pets, among them Rabbit E. Lee and a donkey named Assley Wilkes. In the 1960's and 70's, Mrs. Talmadge was a frequent bridge partner of Lady Bird Johnson.
        She also ran a prosperous country ham business and in later years operated a restaurant out of her home. She wrote two cookbooks, ''How to Cook a Pig & Other Back-to-the-Farm Recipes'' (Simon & Schuster, 1977), with Jean Robitscher and Carolyn Carter; and ''Betty Talmadge's Lovejoy Plantation Cookbook'' (Peachtree Publishers, 1983).
        Leila Elizabeth Shingler was born in Ashburn, Ga., on Sept. 17, 1923, and married Mr. Talmadge at 18. In 1947, at 24, she became Georgia's first lady for 67 days after Mr. Talmadge briefly succeeded his father, Gov. Eugene Talmadge, who had died after being re-elected but before being sworn in. Herman Talmadge was later officially appointed to fill out his father's term through 1948, when he won a special election; he went on to win a full four-year term as governor in 1950.
        In the early 1950's, Mrs. Talmadge and her husband started Talmadge Farms, which cured hams. She built the company into a $6 million business before selling it in 1969.
        At the end of 1976, Mrs. Talmadge learned from a television news report that her husband had filed for divorce.
        In 1978, she ran in the Democratic primary for the House seat in Georgia's Sixth District. She lost the primary; Newt Gingrich, a Republican, won the general election.
        In the summer of 1979, Mrs. Talmadge, who said she was testifying reluctantly, told the Senate Ethics Committee about tens of thousands of dollars in cash that her former husband kept in an overcoat in the closet of their Washington condominium. Although Mrs. Talmadge did not specify how the cash got into the coat, she testified that she and her husband had dipped into it for years whenever they needed extra money. She said she used the cash to supplement the $50 weekly allowance from her millionaire husband.
        In October, the Senate voted to denounce Senator Talmadge for ''reprehensible'' official finances. He lost his bid for a fifth term in 1980.
        Besides her son, of Lovejoy, Mrs. Talmadge is survived by eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Another son, Robert, died in 1975.
        After her first cookbook appeared, The New York Times asked Mrs. Talmadge how she had found the nerve to slaughter her first pig.
        ''Real easy, honey,'' she replied. ''I just thought, 'You little male chauvinist, you,' and I went to it.''
      