
        Elizabeth McFarland Hoffman, who as poetry editor of Ladies' Home Journal sandwiched the work of W.H. Auden, Adrienne Rich and Sylvia Plath in between ''Is Your Marriage a Masquerade?'' and ''Bing Crosby's Kitchen for His Bride,'' died last Thursday in Philadelphia. She was 83 and had homes in Swarthmore, Pa., and Harborside, Me.
        The cause was complications after cardiac surgery, her husband, Daniel Hoffman, said.
        While Ms. Hoffman was at Ladies' Home Journal, from 1948 to 1962, the magazine published at least a half-dozen poems in each monthly issue. Major 20th-century writers whose verse appeared there included Marianne Moore, John Ciardi, Mark Van Doren, Randall Jarrell, Maxine Kumin, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Walter de la Mare, Galway Kinnell, Maxwell Anderson and John Updike.
        Ms. Hoffman's own poems, published under her maiden name, also appeared in the magazine. She left Ladies' Home Journal in 1962, after its new owners stopped publishing poetry.
        Elizabeth McFarland was born on May 3, 1922, in Harrisburg, Pa. As a teenager, she won a national poetry contest sponsored by Scholastic magazine; she later became Scholastic's poetry editor.
        In 1948, she married Mr. Hoffman. He survives her, as do a son, MacFarlane Hoffman of Swarthmore; a daughter, Kate H. Siddiqi of Philadelphia; and two sisters, Nancy Ranew of Milton, Fla.; and Janice Volz of New York City.
        The poems in Ladies' Home Journal were generally short, but Ms. Hoffman paid top rates: $10 a line. (In contrast, Poetry magazine paid 50 cents a line in the early 1950's, Mr. Hoffman, a prominent poet, said.)
        Usually set in a box in the middle of a page, the poems created some arresting juxtapositions. In the August 1950 issue, ''Secrets,'' by Auden, follows an ad for Velveeta. In September 1956, ''Where the Bodies Break,'' by Mr. Kinnell, shares a page with ''How to Make 10 Tantalizing Butter Waffles With That Tender Melt-Away Texture.''
        Readers of the June 1953 issue, which featured ''A Glass of Summer Daisies,'' by Jessamyn West, could, a page later, contemplate the question, ''Did you wake up today with 'morning mouth'?''
        The magazine had a history of such juxtapositions. Under Edward Bok, a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer who edited Ladies' Home Journal from 1889 to 1919, it published fiction by Sarah Orne Jewett, Bret Harte and Rudyard Kipling alongside articles on childrearing, Jennifer Scanlon, the author of ''Inarticulate Longings: The Ladies' Home Journal, Gender, and the Promises of Consumer Culture'' (Routledge, 1995), said in a telephone interview yesterday.
        In the 1950's, women's magazines were tantalizing readers with similar mixed signals. ''The message of the Ladies' Home Journal and magazines like that is, 'Hey, we're willing to acknowledge the choices that women have in life, but in the end, we will maintain that most women will choose home and family,''' Professor Scanlon, a historian at Bowdoin College, said. ''The magazines reveal the tensions, as well as the message, of conformity.''
      