
        Pamela May, a leading British dancer in the early years of the Royal Ballet who helped that company, then called Sadler's Wells Ballet, take New York by storm in 1949, died on Monday, the Royal Ballet announced in London. She was 88.
        Although she was overshadowed in the troupe by her contemporary Margot Fonteyn, as other ballerinas of her generation were, Ms. May's free-spirited personality made her a public favorite in the 19th-century classics and roles created for her by Frederick Ashton and Ninette de Valois.
        De Valois, the Royal Ballet's founder, recalled in her memoirs ''Come Dance With Me'' that ''Pamela May at the age of 14 was a beautifully made, graceful and talented handful.''
        Born Doris May in San Fernando, Trinidad, on May 30, 1917, Ms. May entered de Valois's ballet school in London and made her debut in 1934 with the Vic-Wells Ballet, the precursor to the Sadler's Wells Ballet (the company was renamed the Royal Ballet in 1956). De Valois changed the young dancer's first name to Pamela and wrote that although initially in need of discipline, ''Pamela settled down -- first to a long and distinguished career in the company and then to pass her knowledge on to the younger Wells generation.''
        Ms. May carved out a highly acclaimed reputation as a teacher at the Royal Ballet school from 1954 to 1977. She withdrew from ballerina roles in 1952 after recurring knee injuries but continued in mime and character roles at the Royal and as a guest artist elsewhere until her retirement from the stage in 1982.
        A highly versatile dancer, she was known as a classical ballerina with a beautiful line and also as a dramatic dancer. The New York debut of Sadler's Wells in 1949 may have been a triumph for Fonteyn in ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' but Ms. May was one of the leading ballerinas who showed off the company's range. She appeared in, among other works, ''Checkmate,'' in which de Valois had choreographed the role of the gentle Red Queen for her.
        Ms. May's leading roles included Odette/Odile in ''Swan Lake,'' Princess Aurora in ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' Myrtha in ''Giselle'' and a sparkling Swanilda in ''Coppélia.'' Ashton's major neo-Classical ballet ''Symphonic Variations'' (1946) featured her along with Fonteyn and Moira Shearer. Among other Ashton works in which she originated roles were ''Dante Sonata,'' ''Horoscope'' and ''The Wanderer,'' which featured a talked-about sensuous duet with Michael Somes.
        Ms. May's first husband, Painton Cowan, died in World War II. She later married Charles Gordon. She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      