
        Jane Benedict, a prominent housing advocate who was the principal founder of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a New York City tenants' rights organization, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 93. A longtime resident of New York, she had lived in Oakland, Calif., for the last several years.
        The cause was pneumonia, said her son, Jim Hawley.
        A former trade unionist, Ms. Benedict was active in housing issues for four decades. She helped found the Metropolitan Council in 1958 and was its chairwoman for many years. Among issues concerning the council are rent regulation, protection from unlawful eviction and creating affordable public housing.
        Jane Wiley Benedict was born in Manhattan on Nov. 10, 1911. She attended Connecticut College for Women for two years before transferring to Cornell, where she received a bachelor's degree in English in 1933. After graduating, she returned to New York City, going to work in the book department of Macy's.
        Through her job, Ms. Benedict became involved in the Book and Magazine Guild, a trade union. She was later an organizer for the union's parent, the United Office and Professional Workers of America.
        Ms. Benedict became involved with housing in the early 1950's when she lived in the Yorkville section of Manhattan. In those years, many of the neighborhood's prewar tenements were being razed for luxury high-rise apartment buildings, displacing tens of thousands of low-and middle-income residents.
        In response, Ms. Benedict started the Yorkville Save Our Homes Committee, which lobbied for the construction of low-cost, racially integrated public housing. The committee later joined forces with other New York tenants' groups to form the Metropolitan Council, a citywide organization.
        In 1982 Ms. Benedict ran for governor as a member of the Unity Party, a coalition of community, labor and tenants' groups.
        Ms. Benedict's first marriage ended in divorce. Her second husband, Peter Hawley, a union organizer whom she married in 1942, died in 1996. Besides her son, of Oakland, Ms. Benedict is survived by a daughter, Ellen Hawley, of Minneapolis; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      