
        Grete Sultan, a pianist and teacher who was both a performer of Bach and Schubert and a mentor to John Cage and his contemporaries, died in her sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital last Sunday morning. She was 99.
        ''Basically, her heart gave out,'' said Robert Jurgrau, a former student and close friend. She had been hospitalized for about a week with pneumonia.
        Ms. Sultan was a matter-of-fact proponent of the avant-garde. Her calling cards included Bach's Goldberg Variations, which she performed with all the repeats in downtown New York and, later, in uptown concert halls -- which, in the 1940's, before Glenn Gould's 1955 recording helped make the piece familiar fare, was practically outré.
        But Ms. Sultan was open to all kinds of music. She met Cage in 1945; his ''Études Australes'' from the mid-1970's, based on notes derived from star charts, were written for her. Other contemporary composers whose works she performed included Earle Brown, Stefan Wolpe, Alan Hovhaness, Ben Weber and Christian Wolff, one of her students.
        She said in a 1996 interview: ''Music is music. That's all.''
        Johanna Margarete Sultan was born on June 21, 1906, in Berlin. Her family was musical -- two of her aunts had studied with Clara Schumann -- and Richard Strauss, Artur Schnabel, and Ferruccio Busoni were regular visitors to her childhood home. So was the American pianist Richard Buhlig, who introduced her to the composer Henry Cowell and the music of other contemporary composers. At the Hochschule für Musik in Berlin, she completed a course of study in only three years, working with Leonid Kreutzer. But a more important mentor was the pianist and conductor Edwin Fischer, teacher of Alfred Brendel, Paul Badura-Skoda and Daniel Barenboim, with whom she began private lessons after graduation.
        Her burgeoning concert career was, however, abruptly curtailed by Hitler's rise to power, after which Jewish pianists could no longer play German music, although Arturo Toscanini set up some recitals for her in Italy. In 1941, Buhlig helped her escape to the United States, where she arrived with a suitcase and the clothes on her back. (Her mother was able to join her in 1946; a sister also managed to escape.)
        Ms. Sultan began teaching at Vassar College and at the 92nd Street Y in New York before taking a post at the Masters' School in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., in 1952, which she held until 1971. It was Buhlig who introduced her to his former student Cage; Ms. Sultan, in turn, introduced Cage to her student Mr. Wolff, who gave Cage his first copy of the I Ching. In addition to Mr. Wolff, her students included the composer Lucia Dlugoszewskiwho moved to New York to study Bach with her in 1948 and ended up meeting the choreographer Erick Hawkins, who had a studio next door.
        Ms. Sultan also continued to perform in concert throughout her life, winning praise for her natural, unflashy manner and musical integrity, and doggedly following her own musical tastes through the years, performing now Schubert, now Schoenberg, now Stravinsky, now Cage or Feldman without proselytizing and with equal aplomb. In 1996, shortly after her 90th birthday, she played the Goldberg Variations at Merkin Hall. The same year brought the release of the first of two retrospective CD sets that give a flavor of her performances and the breadth of her repertory.
        ''She clearly strives for something higher from music than emotion or adventure,'' wrote Mark Swed, the Los Angeles Times music critic, after that 1996 concert. ''Her Bach has the modernist's attention paid to the smallest detail of sound and structure. The feeling here is that the spirit will soar much higher if it isn't pushed.''
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      