
        Nan Kempner, one of New York's most serene hostesses and clotheshorses, a glittering fixture at social events and fashion shows on both sides of the Atlantic for decades, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74.
        The cause was emphysema, said her husband, Thomas. A heavy smoker until about 10 years ago, she had been breathing with the aid of an oxygen tank.
        As slim as a stalk of celery and, as she proudly acknowledged, ''possibly one of the first people to have plastic surgery,'' Mrs. Kempner was a member of fashion's Hall of Fame and a Park Avenue hostess whose table was considered one of the best in Manhattan.
        An original ''social X-ray,'' the phrase coined by Tom Wolfe to describe the premier rich and thin socialites of the Upper East Side, she never hesitated to admit that she loved making an entrance, loved being noticed and loved being photographed. She was a tireless and in-demand guest at every A-list function she could squeeze into a schedule that included trips each year to London, Paris, Gstaad, Venice, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Vail and Nassau for couture shows, parties, skiing and sunning.
        Mrs. Kempner was known for her self-deprecating sense of humor and for being one of the few women slender enough to look, and feel, comfortable on the ubiquitous narrow gilt chairs of the couture salons. But she never considered comfort a major factor. She was simply ''crazy'' about clothes, cheerfully describing herself as an insatiable shopper who spent ''more than I should, and less than I want.''
        ''The best part of a party is getting dressed to go,'' she often said. When her children left the nest, she turned their rooms into walk-in closets.
        She was born Nan Field Schlesinger in San Francisco on July 24, 1930. Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.''
        After graduating from the Hamlin School in San Francisco, Mrs. Kempner entered Connecticut College for Women, but left before graduation. During a junior year abroad, she studied at the Sorbonne and had what she called ''painting lessons'' with Fernand Léger.
        ''He said I was a disgrace, that I had so little talent I should go back to San Francisco and stop wasting my parents' money,'' she recalled. ''It wasn't exactly endearing, but it was true.''
        After working briefly as a volunteer at the San Francisco Museum of Art, she was married in 1952 to Thomas L. Kempner, chairman of Loeb Partners, the investment banking house, and a grandson of Carl M. Loeb, the founder and former head of the firm. In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Thomas Kempner Jr. of Manhattan and James L. Kempner of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Adeline Field Kempner of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
        Mrs. Kempner entertained in a duplex apartment whose rooms were lined with antique silk panels or hand-painted French wallpaper with a lush, intertwining floral design. There were two paintings by René Magritte, a couple of bronze bas-reliefs by Robert Graham and tables piled high with art books and ancient Chinese bric-a-brac. The apartment also housed a small gym, where Mrs. Kempner exercised relentlessly, keeping herself thin enough to slip into the mannequins' dresses -- garments worn once by models on runways -- that she bought at a discount in Paris, Milan and New York.
        Although she bought clothes from many leading couturiers, she was said to own thousands of Yves Saint Laurent creations and told The Independent of London in a 1994 interview that she had missed only one of his last 63 shows. She relished the flights of imagination that a well-chosen outfit allowed.
        ''I remember in the 70's,'' she told The Independent, ''our car would drop the kids off at school, then Tommy would pick me up, and he'd say, 'Now, who are we today?' and I'd be Pocahontas, Nanook of the North, I'd be -- God knows -- the River Boat Queen. It was such fun.''
        In addition to buying, wearing and collecting clothes, many of which she donated to museums' costume institutes and various charities, Mrs. Kempner served on a number of charitable boards and benefit committees, gave occasional courses in couture at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and at New York University, and flirted with a number of other careers. In the 1960's, she was a special editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine; in the early 70's, she was a design consultant for Tiffany & Company; and in the 1980's, she was a correspondent for French Vogue.
        In the late 90's, she became an international representative for Christie's, a job she defined as ''a shill to bring friends in.'' Her book of recipes and happenings, ''R.S.V.P.: Menus for Entertaining From People Who Really Know How,'' was published by Clarkson Potter in 2000, with the proceeds going to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        In a 1999 article in Town & Country, Annette Tapert asked Mrs. Kempner how she would describe her look. ''Artificially relaxed,'' she responded. ''It takes a lot of work to look relaxed. I've always liked being noticed, and I work hard at it. I'll never forget one day when my son Jamie and I were walking down the street and he asked, 'Mummy, do you mind if I walk on the other side of the street?' And I said, 'Why?' and he said, 'Because people stare!' But frankly, I couldn't go mail a letter if I didn't feel I looked all right.''
        Then again, she once said: ''I tell people all the time I want to be buried naked. I know there will be a store where I'm going.''
      