
        Elizabeth Blodgett Hall, an educator who concluded that bored high school students should be sent straight to college and started Simon's Rock College to prove the point, died on Monday in Canaan, Conn. She was 95.
        Her death was announced by Judith Monachina, spokeswoman for the college, in Great Barrington, Mass., which is now part of Bard College. Mrs. Hall, as the headmistress of a girls' prep school, perceived that adolescents were maturing faster than in the past, and that high schools were not meeting the challenge. So in 1964, she began what she called ''an early college'' for young women. Students who otherwise would have been in the last two years of high school instead took the first two years of college.
        Leon Botstein, president of Bard, explained in an interview that Mrs. Hall abhorred the way adolescents were ''infantilized,'' when they were capable of doing high-level academic work. He said that her ideas had been adopted by more and more colleges, and that Bard itself had intensified its ''early-college'' efforts by beginning a high school in New York City in 2001 to teach college-level courses.
        The later Bard program received funds from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which has also given millions to other early college programs on the theory they will help reduce dropout rates. Tom Vander Ark, executive director of the foundation's education program, credited Mrs. Hall's inspiration.
        Mrs. Hall's mission was intensely personal. In addition to spending more than $6 million of her own, she gave 200 acres of her family's farmland, buildings included, to start the college, which became coeducational in 1970. She named it for a rock on which she had played as a child.
        Elizabeth Blodgett was born in Manhattan on Nov. 16, 1909. Her father made a fortune in the chewing gum industry.
        She later attended public and private schools in the Great Barrington area. She graduated from Miss Hall's School in Pittsfield, Mass., in 1928, and then attended Knox College for a year.
        In 1930, she married Livingston Hall, who was later a professor and administrator at Harvard Law School. After having four children, she entered Radcliffe College, one of the first adults to do so, and graduated in 1946.
        After holding several other jobs, she became head of the history department, then headmistress, at the Concord Academy, a private girls' school in Concord, Mass. An article in Mademoiselle in 1969 said she turned ''a genteel finishing school'' into ''one of the most dynamic girls' preparatory schools in the East.''
        It was a time when educators were scrambling to jump-start education to keep up with the Russians, in space and elsewhere. Initiatives ranged from Advanced Placement courses that allowed students to do college-credit work while still in high school to the experimental admissions of bright high school students.
        Earlier, in the 1930's, Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago and a philosopher of education, had admitted academically superior 16-year-olds as freshmen. European universities had long allowed such acceleration.
        What Mrs. Hall was doing was different in that she established a residential college expressly for high school aged students, putting it somewhere between a prep school and a college, with resultant tensions. For example, students complained about rules forbidding overnight room visits by members of the opposite sex.
        There have been accusations over the years between the students and the administration as the college sought to find ways to restrict students' behavior without being harsh.
        Mrs. Hall faced frequent criticism from both faculty and students. In an interview with Berkshire Week in 1988, she recalled that she fought against ''self-pity'' before resigning, partly as a result of such criticism, in 1972 . She remained a trustee.
        Mrs. Hall's husband died in 1995. She is survived by her sons, Thomas Livingston Hall of San Francisco, and John Kendrick Hall of Jerusalem; her daughters, Margaret Hall Whitfield Courant of Great Barrington and Elizabeth Hall Richardson of Denver; 11 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 21, 2005, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Elizabeth Blodgett Hall, who founded Simon's Rock College, now part of Bard College, referred incorrectly in some copies to the given name of the president of Bard, who commented on her legacy. He is Leon Botstein, not Leo.
      