
        Edith I. Spivack, a tireless lawyer who worked for the New York City Law Department from 1934, when few other women were government lawyers, until last year, when she reluctantly stopped showing up four days a week, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 95.
        The cause was complications of a fall, a daughter, Amy Bass, said.
        The Law Department, New York City's legal advocate, has 650 lawyers, making it the third largest law firm in the city and one of the largest in the country. Having served 10 mayors and 23 corporation counsels, Ms. Spivack was by far the longest-serving civil servant in the department and quite possibly in the city.
        A colleague, Jeffrey Friedlander, the first assistant corporation counsel, said that Ms. Spivack's formal expertise was tax law. But, he added, her wide-ranging legal knowledge, administrative ability and extensive institutional memory were ''the support behind the men who had the titles.''
        Indeed, if Ms. Spivack had been born a man, Mr. Friedlander said, she would not have worked in obscurity for the many decades that she did.
        ''She was, essentially, the power behind the throne,'' he said. ''It was clear she was the brains.''
        Her most important legal work came in the 1970's, when she was well into her 60's. She helped negotiate loans to keep the city out of bankruptcy. In the Penn Central Railroad bankruptcy, she helped collect many millions of dollars in real estate taxes. She successfully argued a major tax case, Walz v. Tax Commission, before the Supreme Court.
        Short, small-boned, impeccably dressed, with a courtly manner from another era, she had a tart wit.
        At a Christmas party last year at which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg awarded her a public service plaque, the mayor tried to make small talk and asked when she graduated from college. Ms. Spivack replied that she graduated from Barnard College in 1929.
        The mayor said his mother had graduated from New York University in the same year. Ms. Spivack looked at the mayor and said, ''Well, I guess she couldn't get into Barnard.''
        Ms. Spivack was born on April 19, 1910. She grew up in the Bronx and the Upper West Side, the daughter of a seller of cardboard boxes.
        After graduating from Barnard at 19, she went to Columbia Law School. She married a fellow student, Bernard H. Goldstein, who died in 1998. She retained her maiden name as a tribute to her parents.
        She is survived by Ms. Bass of Port Washington; another daughter, Rita Christopher Frank of Madison, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
        Ms. Spivack was rejected by law firms, in part because of the Great Depression, but also, she maintained, because she was a woman and Jewish. When Fiorello H. La Guardia took office in 1934, political appointees were removed and replaced through civil service examination.
        Told that the city had no money to pay her, Ms. Spivack worked in the Law Department as a volunteer and was finally hired at half salary: $1,700 a year.
        In January 1980, the city began to force foreign consulates to pay their municipal water bills, but the consul general of Colombia refused.
        After many telephone calls, she left a message: ''If a check is not delivered this afternoon to the corporation counsel's office, I'm coming up personally to shut off the water.'' The check arrived.
        In the 1980's, Ms. Spivack took advantage of the elimination of mandatory retirement and continued to work until 1995, when she officially retired. After three weeks she returned to the department in an advisory capacity.
        ''My mom didn't knit, never cooked, never drove,'' Ms. Bass said. ''She never typed. My mom was a professional woman, a professional lawyer.''
        After the Penn Central bankruptcy, her efforts recovered $90 million in back taxes. ''For some reason, Penn Central made out the $90 million check directly to me,'' she recalled later. ''But being an honest woman, I handed it over to the city.''
      