
        Lew Ayres, the movie actor who skyrocketed to fame as a disillusioned German soldier in ''All Quiet on the Western Front'' in 1930 and was also celebrated for playing the title role in ''Young Dr. Kildare'' and the series of films that followed it, died on Monday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 88.
        In a case of life imitating art, Mr. Ayres was a conscientious objector during World War II and for that reason became a Hollywood outcast. Before the war, he had been one of the most popular leading men in the movies. But when he announced his pacifism, which had a religious basis, he was shunned by the studios, and in some cities exhibitors refused to show his movies. He said that to bear arms would cause him ''to live in a nightmare of hypocrisy.''
        After two months in a labor camp, he entered the Army as a noncombatant, serving for three and a half years in the Medical Corps and winning three battle stars. After the war, he resumed his career and made scores of movies, but never reached the peak of his early Hollywood stardom.
        On screen and off, he projected a sincerity and strength of character, all of which suited him well, especially when he played doctors. He was also cast as a lawyer or journalist and occasionally played a gangster, but his archetypal role was as a wise and compassionate physician. In ''Donovan's Brain'' in 1953, he mixed two worlds: he was a doctor who was transformed into a fiend.
        He played opposite many of Hollywood's leading ladies, including Lana Turner, Laraine Day, Ann Sothern, Ann Sheridan and Alice Faye. On-screen he did not always marry his co-star, but off screen he married Ginger Rogers; they were later divorced. His first wife was the actress Lola Lane. He is survived by his third wife, Diana, and a son, Justin.
        In his career, which spanned more than 60 years, Mr. Ayres seesawed between stardom and character roles, and often seemed to be in a state of constant revival. There were many high points, beginning with his first major movie role in 1929, opposite Greta Garbo in ''The Kiss,'' and including a performance as the sweet-tempered alcoholic brother in Philip Barry's ''Holiday'' (1938), with Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn. For his role as a doctor in ''Johnny Belinda,'' he received an Academy Award nomination; Jane Wyman, who starred in the film, won an Oscar as best actress.
        In 1962, under the direction of Otto Preminger, he became President of the United States in the movie ''Advise and Consent.'' When the President (Franchot Tone) died, his Vice President (Mr. Ayres) was elevated to that office. For the director and the actor, there was a certain justice in that event. More than many actors, Mr. Ayres seemed to suffer from the moral judgments of the movie industry.
        Lewis Ayres was born in Minneapolis and went to high school in San Diego. At the University of Arizona, he studied medicine, a career that he later undertook with dedication on the screen. At Arizona, he also played in a university jazz band, and he continued as a musician in Los Angeles, where he was discovered by an agent who had seen him dancing with the actress Lily Damita. Within a year, he was playing Garbo's youthful lover.
        Cast as Paul Baumer, the sensitive young soldier in Lewis Milestone's disturbing film version of Erich Maria Remarque's antiwar novel ''All Quiet on the Western Front,'' Mr. Ayres made a riveting impression on the moviegoing public. The scene on the battlefield in which he reaches for a butterfly remains one of the most heartbreaking in screen history.
        Many of his subsequent films were lighter and far less demanding. In typical studio fashion, he simply went from movie to movie. In 1933, he was a newspaper reporter in ''State Fair'' and a plumber who bets on horses in ''Don't Bet on Love'' (with Miss Rogers). He also played opposite the English actress Lilian Harvey in the musical ''My Weakness.'' Though his movies were often minor, he seemed to approach them with ease.
        ''Young Dr. Kildare'' in 1938 was a popular breakthrough, followed by eight more Kildare films. In the first film, the young doctor turned his back on his father's small-town medical practice and became an intern in a large general hospital. Earnest Dr. Kildare came under the tutelage of the irascible Dr. Gillespie (Lionel Barrymore). Years later, television was periodically flooded with hospital dramas, from adaptations of ''Kildare'' and ''Ben Casey'' through ''St. Elsewhere'' and ''E.R.,'' but the big-screen ''Kildare'' was there first: unassuming but filled with expert medical knowledge.
        After the war, Mr. Ayres returned to the screen, playing, naturally, a doctor: opposite Olivia de Havilland in ''The Dark Mirror,'' directed by Robert Siodmak. He followed that with ''The Unfaithful'' (with Ann Sheridan and Zachary Scott) and ''Johnny Belinda,'' in which he played a doctor who teaches sign language to a deaf young woman (Miss Wyman).
        He left the screen in the 1950's to direct a religious documentary, ''Altars of the East,'' returning in 1962 at the request of Mr. Preminger. He continued acting for almost 30 years, appearing in, among other films, ''The Carpetbaggers,'' ''Battle for the Planet of the Apes'' and ''Battlestar Galactica.''
        It was often suggested that as an actor he sacrificed his career for his principles. Once, thinking about the highs and lows, Mr. Ayres said, ''A fellow's never through till he quits trying.''
      