
        Eddie Sawyer, who never played in the major leagues but managed the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team to the franchise's first National League pennant in 35 years, died yesterday in Phoenixville, Pa., after a brief illness. Sawyer, who lived in Valley Forge, Pa., was 87.
        A Phi Beta Kappa member, Sawyer held a master's degree from Cornell University and had a reputation as a scholarly type with an amazing memory and a kindly manner with young players. He had certainly been around young people enough as a science teacher at Ithaca College, where he earned a bachelor's degree before becoming a longtime minor league outfielder in the New York Yankees' system.
        ''He's still able to run down the roster of 1,500 former students -- first name, last name, hometown -- as glibly as he calls off the Phils' batting order,'' a 1949 Collier's magazine profile of Sawyer observed. ''The only thing Eddie couldn't remember was how to hit a curveball.''
        Sawyer was hired as the Phillies' manager midway through the 1948 season, replacing Ben Chapman, after managing Yankee farm clubs and the Phillies' farm teams in Utica, N.Y., and Toronto.
        Two years later, along with some of the young players he had managed in the minors, he brought the Phils their first pennant since Grover Cleveland Alexander won 31 games for Philadelphia in 1915.
        After decades as a second-division team, the Phillies had begun to stockpile young talent under the ownership of Bob Carpenter, who took over the franchise during World War II.
        Sawyer's 1950 lineup -- infielders Eddie Waitkus, Mike Goliat, Granny Hamner and Willie Jones; outfielders Richie Ashburn, the Hall of Famer who died earlier this month, Del Ennis and Dick Sisler; catcher Andy Seminick and pitchers Robin Roberts, Curt Simmons and Jim Konstanty -- was known as the Whiz Kids for its tender baseball years.
        The Phillies won the pennant on the season's final day when Sisler hit a 10th-inning home run at Ebbets Field to turn back the Brooklyn Dodgers. But the euphoria in Philadelphia was dimmed when the Phillies were swept in four games by the Yankees in the World Series.
        The Phils sank to fifth place in 1951 and then, with the team in fifth again, Sawyer was replaced in June 1952.
        He was brought back as the Phils' manager in July 1958, replacing Mayo Smith, but his team finished last that year and also in 1959.
        After being named manager of the year in 1950 in an Associated Press news media poll, Sawyer expressed his philosophy. ''Build up a fellow's confidence and you build up his ability,'' he said. ''Knock him all the time, his confidence disappears and the battle is lost.''
        But the second time around in Philadelphia, it took only a couple of seasons for Sawyer to experience his fill of confidence-building. After the Phils lost the first game of the 1960 season, he quit managing for good. His parting comment: ''I'm 49 years old, and I want to live to be 50.''
        Sawyer is survived by his wife, Pauline; two daughters, a sister and five grandchildren.
      