
        William L. Rowe, a nationally syndicated newspaper columnist who became New York City's first black deputy police commissioner, died on Thursday at Glen Island Care Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82.
        The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Isadora, said.
        Mr. Rowe started out as a porter and elevator operator in the office of Florenz Ziegfeld, the theatrical producer. Mr. Ziegfeld took a liking to the young man and helped get him a job in newspapers, where he later became a syndicated columnist for The Pittsburgh Courier, The Amsterdam News in New York City and more than 200 other predominantly black newspapers.
        He eventually handled public relations for Joe Louis, Sugar Ray Robinson and Sammy Davis Jr., and later was a corporate marketing consultant for companies like Burlington Industries and General Foods.
        In 1960, during the cold war and the heated Presidential contest between Richard M. Nixon and John F. Kennedy, Mr. Rowe's public relations firm, partly owned by Louis, came under sharp attack for accepting a $287,000 contract to promote tourist travel to Cuba. An angry Louis denied that he was unpatriotic and the firm later canceled the contract.
        But it was as a deputy police commissioner that Mr. Rowe received his widest public prominence. In August 1951, Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri namded him to a position known as Seventh Deputy Police Commissioner, serving as liaison between the police and community groups, amid some criticism from black publications. The New York Age, a black weekly, observed that Mr. Rowe was a theatrical reporter and press agent and did not have ''the background and practical training of a half-hundred Negroes who could meet all of the necessary qualifications.''
        But in his two and half years as deputy commissioner -- he resigned following the election of Robert F. Wagner as mayor in 1953 -- Mr. Rowe introduced several innovations, including classes on human relations at the Police Academy. He successfully urged the creation of a civilian complaint review board and was one of its three original members. And he arranged for celebrities that he knew from his newspaper days, like Louis, to take needy children to summer training camps.
        ''Initially, nobody wanted him,'' said Benjamin Ward, the former police commissioner who began as a rookie officer three months before Mr. Rowe's appointment. ''But by the time he left, everyone had a high regard and respect for him.''
        Mr. Rowe at one point saved Mr. Ward's career. As a young officer, Mr. Ward was dismissed after his six-month probationary period when it was discovered that he had been dismissed from the Brooklyn Army Terminal for punching a foreman in 1944, seven years before he joined the police force. After hearing Mr. Ward's explanation that he was provoked when the foreman criticized him with a racial epithet, Mr. Rowe helped Mr. Ward become reinstated.
        Mr. Rowe, who lived in New Rochelle since 1960, is survived by his wife, and a cousin, Frezell Williams of New York City.
        William Leon Rowe was born on Dec. 31, 1914 in St. Matthews, S.C., the only son of a cook and a homemaker. As a child, he collected coal that fell off trucks and sold it, he once told a reporter. Mr. Rowe recalled that his father, John, told him: ''Be above the crowd. Not in mind -- that's just arrogance -- but in deed.''
      