
        David B. Kelly, who modernized the New Jersey State Police during his tenure as its Superintendent from 1965 to 1974, but who later retired  after being criticized by his own men as a harsh disciplinarian, died Sunday in the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 79.
        He died of complications from a stroke in April, his son, Dennis, said.
        Mr. Kelly, a career state trooper whose father served on the force, won support from both Democratic and Republican state leaders for  substantially improving the force. He brought in more modern equipment, including helicopters and air-conditioned patrol cars, raised troopers' salaries and moved forcefully against organized crime by establishing new teams like the State Police Intelligence Bureau and the Organized Crime Task Force.
        ''He brought the force out of the Dark Ages with his reforms,'' said Carl A. Williams, the current Superintendent.
        But his tenure came during the  turbulent years of civil rights protests and demonstrations against the war in Vietnam, and the state police did not escape criticism. The American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey charged the state police with ''deliberate destruction of property of Negro store owners'' during the Newark riots of 1967.
        In December 1970, the civil liberties group charged that the state police systematically stopped and searched vehicles driven by people with long hair and ''hippie-like clothing,'' as newspapers of the time described it. Troubles intensified in 1972 when two troopers resigned after they were accused of forcing a long-haired hitchhiker into the trunk of their patrol car, and two other officers were indicted for ''branding'' a suspected drug user.
        Earlier, in 1970, Angelo De Carlo, an alleged organized crime figure, was recorded on F.B.I. surveillance tapes as boasting that Colonel Kelly won his post at Mr. De Carlo's orders. Colonel Kelly called Mr. De Carlo a ''congenital liar'' and a few months later, he was reappointed Superintendent.
        In April 1974, when Colonel Kelly was a year past the usual retirement age of 55, the Troopers Fraternal Association, an officers' group, called for his resignation, charging him with harsh discipline and favoritism in promotions. He denied the charges and refused to resign, but by June, he retired.
        Colonel Kelly joined the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company as head of corporate security. In 1977 he founded D. B. Kelly Associates, a security-guard firm, which today has  some 5,600 employees in 15 offices along the Eastern seaboard.
        His years in the spotlight made him philosophical, his friends said. ''He'd tell me, 'Always tell the truth,' '' recalled his friend, Arthur M. Goldberg, executive vice president of Hilton Hotels in Las Vegas, Nev. ''But more importantly: 'Tell the truth quickly. Unlike wine, bad news doesn't get better with age.' ''
        David Bernard Kelly was born in South Amboy, N.J., on Dec. 18, 1917. He attended Seton Hall and Rutgers Universities but did not graduate. He fought in World War II in Europe and received two Silver Stars, two Bronze Stars, and a Purple Heart.
        Mr. Kelly is survived by his wife, the former Geneva Dorrian, of South Amboy, N.J.; his daughter Mary S., also of South Amboy; four sons, David B. of Middletown, N.J.; Sean R. of Princeton, N.J.; Brian J. of South Amboy; and Dennis M. of Colts Neck, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      