
        David J. Kriskovich, who went from serving as a Green Beret in Vietnam to an F.B.I. career where he helped develop the concept of the special weapons team, died on Sept. 17 in a helicopter crash in Bosnia, where he had gone to help that country re-establish its police force.
        Mr. Kriskovich was 56 and was among 12 people killed during a United Nations mission in what was evidently an accidental crash near the Bosnian city of Bugojno. Also killed in the crash was Mr. Kriskovich's neighbor in Virginia and former colleague at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Livio A. Beccaccio.
        Kurt Crawford, a spokesman for the F.B.I. academy in Quantico, said that besides developing the SWAT concept, Mr. Kriskovich was an expert on firearms and during his time at the academy trained 980 F.B.I. agents and police officers from other Federal agencies.
        Dr. John Witmer, who served with Mr. Kriskovich in Vietnam and is now living in retirement in Evergreen, Colo., said that Mr. Kriskovich was as committed to helping orphans find shelter as he was to helping South Vietnamese commandos train to fight the Communists.
        ''When we were there, Long Thanh Orphans Village went from none to 350 children,'' Dr. Witmer said. ''We would go there once a week after collecting soap, clothes and sheets from the PX in Long Binh. It was run by a Buddhist monk, Nguyen Van Su, and Kris helped design and build the place.''
        Dr. Witmer said that Mr. Kriskovich was ''legendary at the F.B.I. for his stunts,'' and one of his daughters, Elizabeth Kriskovich Tansing, said today that one of those actions was portrayed at the opening of every episode of the old television series ''Today's F.B.I.,'' in which the show's star was seen rappelling down the side of the F.B.I. academy building in Quantico, Va.
        But it was not the star, she said, it was Mr. Kriskovich in the long shot, with an image of the star cut in for the closeup. ''He didn't get paid for it, though,'' Ms. Tansing recalled.
        While they were working at the F.B.I., Mr. Kriskovich and Mr. Beccaccio bought a 40-acre farm in Spotsylvania, Va., and divided it for homes to raise their families. In his half, Mr. Kriskovich and his wife, Barbara, bred Clydesdale horses.
        ''Every Thanksgiving and Christmas,'' his daughter said, ''he would hitch the big horses to a wagon and take a choir around to sing and collect canned food for the poor.''
        Mr. Kriskovich was one of the designers of the obstacle course at the F.B.I. academy and, Ms. Tansing said, he built a miniature version of it for his children on the farm, calling it a ''confidence course.''
        When her brother, Michael, was 5 years old, Ms. Tansing said, her father took him to Quantico and, in front of the class he was teaching, had Michael go through the obstacle course, including climbing up and down a 30-foot rope.
        ''I wouldn't have my 5-year-old do anything that I wouldn't ask you to do,'' Mr. Kriskovich told the trainees, his daughter said, and she added, ''My father always said it was technique over brawn.''
        Mr. Kriskovich retired from the F.B.I. in 1994 and joined a consulting firm, taking a leave of absence in March to go on the United Nations mission to Bosnia. ''He really felt a calling to go -- he is a second-generation Croatian-American,'' his daughter said.
        Mr. Kriskovich was born in Ashland, Wis., and joined the Army in 1961 after graduating from the University of Puget Sound. He served in the Army until 1969 and was an F.B.I. agent from 1970 until his retirement in 1994.
        Besides his wife and Ms. Tansing, who lives in Vienna, Va., Mr. Kriskovich is survived by another daughter, Danya Ivory of Fredericksburg, Va.; a son, Michael, also of Fredericksburg; his parents, Rose and Joe Kriskovich of Ashland; two brothers, Tom, of Ashland and Dean, of Plainfield, Ind.; a sister, Diane Kriskovich of Denver, and a granddaughter.
      