
        Shoichi Yokoi, a Japanese soldier who hid in the jungles of Guam for 27 years rather than surrender to American forces at the end of World War II, died on Monday of a heart attack. He was 82.
        Mr. Yokoi returned in 1972 to Japan -- an entirely different country than the one he had last seen in August 1940 -- and he stirred widespread soul-searching within Japan about whether he represented the best impulses of the national spirit or the silliest.
        ''I am ashamed that I have returned alive,'' Mr. Yokoi declared after his return, reflecting the traditional warrior spirit that it is better to die than to give oneself up to the enemy.
        ''Your Majesties, I have returned home,'' Mr. Yokoi said during a visit to the grounds of the Imperial Palace, where the Emperor and Empress live. ''I deeply regret that I could not serve you well. The world has certainly changed, but my determination to serve you will never change.''
        It is not clear what Emperor Hirohito thought, but many young Japanese were embarrassed at such an expression of antiquated values. Although Mr. Yokoi said the one thing he wanted most was a meeting with the Emperor, Hirohito never obliged.
        Mr. Yokoi's case highlighted the extraordinary transformation that Japan has undergone -- psychological as well as material -- in the decades since the war.
        He was the epitome of prewar values of diligence, loyalty to the Emperor and ganbaru, a ubiquitous Japanese word that roughly means to slog on tenaciously through tough times.
        This persistence struck many elderly Japanese as inspiring and moving, while to younger people it seemed pointless and symbolic of an age that taught children to stick to what they were doing rather than to think about where they were going.
        Raised in a farming village near the city of Nagoya in central Japan, Mr. Yokoi became a tailor until he was sent to the war in 1940. Japanese troops were encouraged to fight to the death and taught that surrender was deeply shameful, and so when American troops seized control of Guam in 1944, Mr. Yokoi and more than 1,000 other Japanese soldiers hid in the jungle rather than give up or commit suicide.
        The others were all captured within a couple of years or died of starvation or sickness. Though he knew that Japan had surrendered, Mr. Yokoi continued to hide out, living in a well-concealed cave and surviving on fruit, nuts, fish, shrimp, frogs, rats and snails. His tailoring skills helped him weave clothing made of bark.
        ''I continued to live for the sake of the Emperor and believing in the Emperor and the Japanese spirit,'' he later declared.
        The jungle saga might have lasted even longer, but in January 1972 two American hunters surprised Mr. Yokoi at dusk as he was about to set fish traps in a river. They marched him at gunpoint to a local police station, where he told his story to the stunned police officers.
        Mr. Yokoi became a celebrity in Japan, and even those embarrassed by his constant references to the Emperor felt a measure of admiration at his determination and ganbaru spirit. A few weeks after his capture he was flown back to Japan on a chartered jet, and he burst into tears when he caught a glimpse of Mount Fuji, one of the symbols of Japan.
        Hailed as a hero at a welcoming ceremony in Tokyo's airport, as millions of Japanese watched on television, he seemed overwhelmed by the changes in the country to which he had returned. He had never heard of television, atomic weapons or jet planes.
        Thousands of Japanese lined the highway waving paper Japanese flags, as he was later driven to his native village. The homecoming was televised live across the nation, and cameras were everywhere as Mr. Yokoi stopped at the village cemetery and wept at the family gravestone, which recorded that he had died on Guam in 1944.
        The Japanese public, moved by his earnestness and devotion to traditional values, flooded Mr. Yokoi with money, gifts and offers of marriage.
        Many people worried about how he would adjust to the new Japan, but that never seemed to be a problem: he married six months after his return and taught survival skills and gave frequent lectures on how to live more thriftily.
        ''I can't understand why cities must burn garbage,'' he scolded Japan in 1980. ''My family does not produce garbage. We eat every last bite of food. Parts of food that are not edible are used as fertilizer in my garden.''
        Mr. Yokoi, who also urged that golf courses be plowed over and planted with beans, once ran for Parliament but lost, perhaps because many voters found his attitudes unsettling as well as admirable. His saga prompted a search for other Japanese soldiers left behind, and in 1974 a Japanese lieutenant named Hiroo Onoda was found living in the Philippine jungle.
        Mr. Yokoi's wife, Mihiko, who is 69, survives him and said that she had shared joy with him for 25 years.
        ''The treasure in my heart has gone,'' Mrs. Yokoi told reporters after her husband's death. ''I cannot think of anything now. I will be lonely.''
      