
        Gustave Freeman, a pathologist who used animals to show how chronic exposure to low levels of air pollutants can harm the lungs, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 88.
        His research played a significant role in setting national and global standards for human exposure to smog, said Robert Dehn, a colleague at Stanford Research Institute International, where Dr. Freeman was director of the department of medical sciences at his retirement in 1984.
        To study the impact of pollutants, Dr. Freeman subjected monkeys and rodents to one of smog's components: nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and ground-level ozone. In some cases, he observed them for as long as 12 years. As the animals developed difficulty in breathing, Dr. Freeman drew parallels to emphysema in humans.
        Though others had shown that pollution in an industrial setting irritated the lungs, Dr. Freeman's work documented the effects of ordinary, everyday exposures.
        ''He showed what a housewife, a child, someone not in a job site, could face,'' Mr. Dehn said.
        Dr. Freeman's research was used by the World Health Organization and the Environmental Protection Agency, where he was a consultant, as they weighed air pollution standards.
        When Dr. Freeman helped create an animal model of emphysema associated with air pollution in the 1960's, the battle for tighter standards was just beginning. The E.P.A. estimates that 15,000 Americans die each year from exposure to air pollution generated mainly by old power plants, cars and industry, and says exposure to ozone causes hundreds of thousands of respiratory attacks.
        Dr. Freeman was born in Manhattan, attended Brown and Columbia Universities, and received his medical degree at Duke University in 1934. He taught at Yale University, the University of Chicago and California Institute of Technology and was a researcher at the Army Chemical Center in Washington and the National Cancer Institute.
        He is survived by two sons, Jonathan, of Boston, and Robin, of Oakland, Calif.; a daughter, Phyllis Freeman of Boston, and five grandchildren. His wife, Elizabeth, died in 1985.
      