
        Cary Lu, a scientist, author and film maker known for his ability to explain science and technology to children and adults, died of cancer on Wednesday, according to his wife. He lived in Kirkland, Wash., and was 51 years old.
        Mr. Lu worked in television for several years for NBC and CBS News, developed short films for ''Sesame Street'' and other children's programs on the Public Broadcasting Service and was the science and technology editor for Children's Television Workshop. He was part of the group that started the ''Nova'' series for PBS, and he worked on science education projects for the Governments of Australia, Kenya and Algeria.
        Born in Qingdao, China, on Dec. 4, 1945, Mr. Lu came to this country with his parents when he was 3. He grew up in California and received a degree in physics from the University of California, Berkeley, and a Ph.D. in biology from the California Institute of Technology. He also did research in visual perception at Bell Telephone Laboratories.
        Mr. Lu was a member of the American Academy for the Advancement of Science's Committee on Public Understanding of Science.
        He was also the founding managing editor of High Technology magazine, technology editor for Inc. magazine and a columnist on future technology for Inc. Technology magazine, but he was perhaps best known for his writings on computers. His ''The Apple Macintosh Book'' came to be known as the essential volume about that machine, and his columns and articles in Macworld magazine and other computer publications came to be relied on as models of clarity and integrity.
        ''Cary's interests and talents were very broad,'' said William H. Gates 3d, chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, the software company. ''I am proud to be a part of an industry that was enriched by his contribution.''
        At the time of his death, Mr. Lu was completing a book on the future of digital communications, ''The Race for Bandwidth.''
        He is survived by his wife, Ellen W. Chu, and two children, Meredith and Nathaniel, all of Kirkland; a brother, Ponzy Lu, a faculty member at the University of Pennsylvania, and his father Abraham T. Lu., of Glendale, Calif.
      