
        Murray Burnett, the unsung author of the play on which one of America's iconic movies, ''Casablanca,'' was based, died on Tuesday in his apartment in Manhattan at the age of 86.
        As a 27-year-old English teacher at a New York vocational high school, Mr. Burnett went to German-occupied Vienna in the summer of 1938 to help Jewish relatives smuggle out money. He returned to the United States with the idea for an anti-Nazi play in which an embittered saloon keeper helps a crusading Czech newspaper editor escape from Casablanca with the woman the saloon keeper loves.
        When ''Everybody Comes to Rick's,'' of which Mr. Burnett was a co-writer with Joan Alison, could not find a Broadway producer, the play was sold to Warner Brothers for $20,000 and the title was changed to ''Casablanca.'' Starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, ''Casablanca'' won an Oscar as the best movie of 1943.
        Mr. Burnett's play ''Hickory Street'' had a short Broadway run in 1944 and he wrote, produced or directed many radio programs, including the successful ''Cafe Istanbul'' with Marlene Dietrich, but ''Casablanca'' was the high point of his career. He became increasingly angry when the movie became a staple of popular culture and his contribution was ignored.
        When Howard Koch, one of the film's three credited screenwriters, wrote in New York magazine in 1973 that ''Everybody Comes to Rick's'' ''provided an exotic locale and a character named Rick who ran a cafe but little in the way of a story adaptable to the screen,'' Mr. Burnett sued for $6.5 million and lost.
        Mr. Burnett, who often said Rick was the man he wanted to be, spent the next 18 years crusading for recognition. ''It's not easy to disprove,'' he said in 1990 about the myth that his play provided no more than a character named Rick. ''You know the story about the man who was tried for stealing a chicken and acquitted. For the rest of his life, people say, 'That's the guy who stole the chicken.' ''
        In 1991, Mr. Koch, then 89 years old, capitulated. ''Having read the play more recently, I believe that the complaint was, to some extent, justified,'' Mr. Koch wrote in a letter to The Los Angeles Times. ''After 50 years, memories can be faulty.''
        Mr. Koch and Philip and Julius Epstein shared an Academy Award for the screenplay of ''Casablanca.'' Although the Epsteins and Mr. Koch changed many characters and created a more intricate and layered story, the spine of ''Casablanca'' and a few of the famous lines came from ''Everybody Comes to Rick's.'' In the play, as in the movie, a thief named Ugarte murders two German couriers for letters of transit that will provide safe passage to Lisbon and the free world. And a mysterious American cafe owner with a piano-player friend and a crooked roulette wheel bets a womanizing French policeman that a heroic anti-Fascist will escape.
        Even the song, ''As Time Goes By,'' played a part in ''Everybody Comes to Rick's.'' ''As Time Goes By'' had been written by Herman Hupfield for a 1931 Broadway show, ''Everybody's Welcome.'' As a Cornell University senior, Mr. Burnett liked the song so much he wore out the recording. Although the briefly popular song had been forgotten by 1940, Mr. Burnett resurrected it as Rick's love song.
        In 1983, after Warner Brothers produced a short-lived television series based on ''Casablanca,'' Mr. Burnett and Miss Alison sued the studio, claiming that they still owned the characters even though they had sold the play in which they appeared. The New York Court of Appeals ruled in 1986 that the authors had signed away all rights to their work.
        During his last years, Mr. Burnett was rescued by the 1976 copyright act. Mr. Burnett and Miss Alison, who died in 1992 at the age of 90, had copyrighted ''Everybody Comes to Rick's'' in 1941 and renewed the copyright in 1969. After threatening to terminate their agreement with Warner Brothers at the last renewal of the copyright in 1997, the authors were given $100,000 apiece, and Warner Brothers granted Mr. Burnett what he had always wanted: the right to produce ''Everybody Comes to Rick's.''
        The play was mounted in London in 1991. It closed in less than a month.
        Mr. Burnett is survived by his wife, Adrienne Bayan, whom he met when she acted in his play ''Hickory Street,'' and by a daughter, Lori Burnett of Manhattan.
        Correction:  September 30, 1997, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Murray Burnett, co-author of the play that inspired the film ''Casablanca,'' misspelled the surname of the composer of the song ''As Time Goes By.'' He is Herman Hupfeld, not Hupfield.
      