
        The Rev. Al Sharpton, a combative figure in New York's racial politics  for well over a decade, formally announced his candidacy for the Democratic mayoral nomination yesterday with a harsh attack on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and a focus on two highly contentious issues: requiring that police officers live in the city and eliminating the runoff provision in mayoral primaries.
        Mr. Sharpton used most of his rousing 35-minute announcement to rebuke Mr. Giuliani for policies that Mr. Sharpton described as harmful to minority and poor neighborhoods. And he made clear his intention to use his campaign to address issues he considers important to black and Hispanic communities.
        ''No justice! No peace!'' he cried as he stepped to the lectern of his headquarters in Harlem, leading the crowd of supporters in a chant that set the defiant tone of the event.
        Mr. Sharpton said he made the proposals about police residency and primary elections on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday  because both ideas, he contended, would benefit minority neighborhoods in the city. Mr. Sharpton, who ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic Senate nomination in 1992 and 1994, described himself as a continuation of Dr. King's dream, and criticized the Mayor for failing to appoint a black deputy mayor until three years into his tenure.
        Requiring police officers to live in the city would create a police department with more black and Hispanic officers and one that more accurately reflected the population of the city, Mr. Sharpton contended. ''It will bring down the level of mistrust'' that many minority residents feel for the Police Department, he said. ''It will also bring racial balance to a Police Department that is racially unbalanced.''
        He said he would immediately begin collecting signatures to call for a referendum on police residency.
        The referendum, however, would not be binding, since a residency requirement would need the State Legislature's approval. The police officers' union, which holds significant sway over the Legislature, has long opposed a residency law and vowed yesterday to fight any attempt to create one.
        As for changing state law to have a winner-take-all primary, Mr. Sharpton called it a civil rights necessity. Election law now requires a two-candidate runoff election if the top vote getter in a primary for mayor, public advocate or city comptroller wins less than 40 percent of the vote in New York City.
        Mr. Sharpton said that eliminating the runoff provision would help his election chances, and those of others outside the political establishment, because it would diminish the power of Democratic party leaders.
        ''That's just a Dixiecrat trick created to make sure that the party bosses can control the nominee,'' he said to an enthusiastic crowd of nearly 300. Runoffs in many Southern states have often been attacked as discriminatory, but New York City's runoff has a different source. It goes back to 1969, when Mario A. Procaccino, a weak Democrat, got his party's mayoral nomination with barely one-third of the vote in a five-candidate primary; he was then defeated by John V. Lindsay.
        Mr. Sharpton said he would challenge the rules in Federal District Court. The issue is one that has been litigated unsuccessfully before: a Federal appeals court upheld New York's runoff provision in 1985. The last runoff in the city was in 1977 when Edward I. Koch defeated Mario M. Cuomo in a two-man election for the Democratic mayoral nomination.
      