
        Robert Cahn, a prominent environmental journalist whose influence spanned more than three decades, died last Friday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 80.
        Mr. Cahn helped shape modern environmental affairs not only through his news reporting but also by advising the Government, working with conservation groups and teaching university courses.
        In 1969, he won the Pulitzer Prize for national reporting for a series in The Christian Science Monitor titled ''Will Success Spoil the National Parks?''
        With that series, for which he traveled the country to visit more than 20 parks, he became the first to spot a threat that expanded tourism posed to the park system's well-being.  Nearly 30 years later, that concern is  still echoed by others, as the parks  struggle to keep up with ever heavier use.
        In 1970, President Richard M. Nixon appointed Mr. Cahn to the newly  created, three-member Council on Environmental Quality, the first centralized White House office to advise the President on environmental matters. Mr. Cahn served on the council until 1972, when he returned to The Christian Science Monitor as its environmental editor.
        In his long career in journalism, Mr. Cahn also worked for a variety of other newspapers and for national magazines including Life, Collier's and The Saturday Evening Post. He wrote ''Footprints on the Planet: A Search for an Environmental Ethic,'' published in 1976, as well as several other books.
        He also served at various times on the Coastal Zone Management Advisory Committee of the Department of Commerce, the Presidential Citizens' Advisory Committee on Environmental Quality and the executive boards of the Trust for Public Land, Friends of the Earth and the Student Conservation Association. And he taught at the University of Colorado and the University of California at Berkeley.
        Mr. Cahn was born in Seattle,  graduated from the University of Washington and served as an Army officer in Europe in World War II, winning the Bronze Star.
        Survivors include his wife, Patricia Lovelady Cahn of Boulder, with whom he often collaborated in writing.
      