
        Naoharu Yamashina, the founder of the Bandai Company, the Japanese toy manufacturer behind the Tamagotchi virtual pet and Mighty Morphin Power Rangers crazes, died on Tuesday at the age of 79.
        The immediate cause of death was respiratory failure, although Mr. Yamashina had been hospitalized since June, according to a company spokeswoman, who did not specify the illness.
        The Power Ranger and Tamagotchi fads, which led to long lines at American toy stores, occurred during the tenure of Mr. Yamashina's son, Makoto, who took over as president in 1980.
        Still, the elder Mr. Yamashina de veloped the strategy that propelled Bandai from a struggling toy wholesaler into Japan's largest toy manufacturer and a world leader, with overall sales last year of more than $1.6 billion. That strategy was to license characters from Japanese television shows, financially supporting the creation of those programs when necessary.
        Mr. Yamashina served as president of Bandai from 1953 until 1980 and as chairman from 1980 to 1987. Since then he had been an adviser, coming into the office a couple of times a month until he was hospitalized. In 1987, he donated $3.3 million to form the Japan Toy Library Foundation, which provides toys to handicapped children.
        The eldest son of a rice retailer in Kanazawa, Japan, Mr. Yamashina graduated from a business high school and fought in World War II, losing the sight in his right eye when he was hit by grenade shrapnel.
        In 1945 he joined a textile wholesaler in Kanazawa run by his wife's brother, but business was poor. So, after a neighbor described the joys of the toy business, the company dispatched 29-year-old Mr. Yamashina to Tokyo in 1947 to begin selling toys.
        ''When he started, he had no money, no connections with toy people, no merchandise,'' said Atsuko Tatsumi, publisher of the Weekly Toy News in Tokyo, whose father worked with Mr. Yamashina in the early days. ''He and his wife worked so hard.''
        In 1950 the toy division was spun off as a separate company named Bandaiya, from part of a Chinese phrase meaning ''things that are eternal.'' The same year, seeking to differentiate itself from other wholesalers, the company produced its first original toy -- a beach ball with a bell inside called the Rhythm Ball, which was plagued by quality problems.
        After improving quality, Bandai by the mid-1950's was exporting inexpensive metal cars and planes and other simple toys to the United States and other countries, becoming part of the first big wave of ''made in Japan'' products to wash up on American shores.
        But Mr. Yamashina soon turned his attention to the domestic market, and Bandai had little further success in the United States until a few years ago, when the Power Rangers, a campy Japanese television show about karate-chopping heroes, became a mega-hit, leading to a sales boom for Bandai's action figures.
        The company's latest hit, which is not based on a television character, is Tamagotchi, a miniature video game on a key chain in which the object is to feed, clean and otherwise care for a virtual chicken. Bandai has sold 21 million worldwide since its introduction in Japan last November. It was introduced in the United States in the spring.
        In January, Bandai announced it had agreed to be acquired by Sega Enterprises, the Japanese video game manufacturer. Mr. Yamashina was heartbroken to see the company he created about to be swallowed up, and that appeared to worsen his frail health, Ms. Tatsumi said. ''Everybody says that,'' she added.
        Nor was Mr. Yamashina alone in his feelings. Bandai's middle managers protested the merger, forcing Mr. Yamashina's son to call off the deal in late May and to resign in embarrassment as Bandai's president. In June, the elder Mr. Yamashina collapsed, from what Ms. Ta tsumi said was a stroke, at a horse ranch on Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost island, where he often spent his summers.
        Besides his son Makoto, now the chairman of Bandai, Mr. Yamashina is survived by his wife, Hisae; another son, Osamu, and a daughter, Naomi.
      