
        William H. Crook, a Texas preacher turned politician who used an abortive race for Congress as a springboard into the Johnson Administration, serving as national director of the Vista program and Ambassador to Australia, died on Wednesday at his home in Corpus Christi. He was 72.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Eleanor.
        Mr. Crook, a native of Momence, Ill., was such a sickly child that when a doctor advised that the iodine in salt water would do him a world of good, his father, pastor of a large Congregational Church, did not hesitate. He pulled up stakes and moved the family to the Texas Gulf Coast, reinventing himself as a Baptist minister and seeing to it that his son got daily dunkings in the gulf.
        The regimen apparently worked. Mr. Crook went on to serve as a tail gunner in World War II, graduate from Baylor University on the G.I. Bill and receive a doctorate in theology from Southwestern Seminary.
        On a weekend visit to the home of a college friend, he met the friend's sister, the daughter of Howard E. Butt, the proprietor of the state's largest and most lucrative grocery chain, H. E. B.
        Mr. Crook and Eleanor Butt were married in 1954, the year he began his ministry. But after six years as pastor of the First Baptist Church in Nacogdoches, he decided he wanted to have a wider and more direct impact on society.
        It was a measure of his personal optimism that Mr. Crook entered politics by challenging a five-term conservative Congressman in the 1960 Democratic primary, not fully appreciating that entrenched incumbents in Texas tended to stay entrenched.
        Mr. Crook lost, but the race brought him to the attention of Bill Moyers, President Lyndon B. Johnson's longtime political aide and himself an ordained Baptist minister, who became a close friend and Mr. Crook's entree into the Johnson inner circle. Putting politics behind him, Mr. Crook became headmaster of the San Marcos Academy, a Baptist school in Central Texas. But in 1965 Mr. Johnson drew him back into politics, asking him to help organize the poverty program by establishing the Austin regional office of the Office of Economic Opportunity.
        After two years supervising various economic programs in five states, Mr. Crook went to Washington in 1967 as national director of Vista, or Volunteers in Service to America, and the next year was named Ambassador to Australia.
        After President Johnson left office in 1969, Mr. Crook went into business in Corpus Christi, followed his wife into the Episcopal Church and remained an adviser to Texas Democrats, serving on numerous commissions and, among other things, establishing two orphanages in Ethiopia in the 1985 famine.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, William Jr., of Corpus Christi; two daughters, Elizabeth, of Austin, and Noel Moore of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Eileen Vance of San Marcos, and seven grandchildren.
      