
        Frank Davis Ashburn, a lionized Yale graduate who gave up a chance for sure-fire success in business or the law to devote his life to giving other boys the same advantages he had had as a boarding student at Groton, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 94 and had spent 46 years as the founding headmaster of the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass.
        In 1926, when the Rev. Dr. Endicott Peabody, Groton's storied founding headmaster, picked a 23-year-old Yale graduate to become the first headmaster of a new school being created on the Groton model, the announcement raised eyebrows, but only among those who had not been paying attention.
        To those who had, the surprise was not that Dr. Peabody had made the offer to his prized former student but that Mr. Ashburn had accepted.
        Mr. Ashburn won so many college honors that when the word got around that he was passing up a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford to study law at Columbia, friends who were not already thinking President started thinking Supreme Court.
        After all, at Yale Mr. Ashburn had been been more than a top scholar who ran the campus newspaper, wrote poems for the literary magazine, led the debate team, sang in the glee club and pitched for the varsity baseball team with such consummate cunning that in the annual practice game against the New York Yankees in 1925, he had the good sense to walk Lou Gehrig.
        Along the way, he also inspired such admiration and respect that in an unprecedented array of honors for a single Yale graduate, even one who had been the last man tapped for Skull and Bones, his classmates voted him the senior who had done the most for Yale as well as the most admired, the hardest working, the most brilliant, the most scholarly, the most likely to succeed, and, not coincidentally, the most versatile.
        But for all his limitless prospects, Mr. Ashburn, an Army medical officer's son who was born in Batavia, Ohio, and grew up at Army posts in the United States, Panama and the Philippines, had picked up more than a good education at Groton. He had also found a spiritual home in the spartan atmosphere of stern Christian principles that Dr. Peabody had created to train boys for life.
        It was a mark of his character that at the very fever pitch of the Roaring 20's, when Ivy Leaguers were in the forefront of the flapper era of raccoon coats, rolled stockings and hip flasks, Mr. Ashburn made headlines in New York when he took over as chairman of The Yale Daily News and announced that for the first time the newspaper would advocate enforcement of Prohibition laws.
        He further demonstrated his independence a few years later, when in the face of Dr. Peabody's insistence that he obtain a degree in theology as a condition of employment, he flatly refused, but got the job anyway.
        Despite a lack of academic religious training, at Brooks, which opened in the fall of 1927 with 14 students, Mr. Ashburn became known as a master theologian and a mesmerizing preacher at the mandatory twice-a-day chapel services.
        He was such a spellbinding orator that his address at Groton's 50th anniversary celebration in 1934 was considered almost too dazzling: he upstaged the featured speaker and fellow Groton graduate, President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Hailed by former students as one of the great headmasters in a line dating to Thomas Arnold at Rugby, Mr. Ashburn became as revered as Dr. Peabody had been at Groton, perhaps more so, especially after he announced that while character was paramount, the famous character-building cold showers that had been a dreaded prebreakfast ritual at Groton would be optional at Brooks.
        Brooks may never have matched Groton's academic standing, but it claims its share of accomplished alumni, among them Steve Forbes, and the school, which now admits girls, is flourishing.
        Mr. Ashburn found time to play on a broader stage. He wrote several books, among them a 1944 biography of Dr. Peabody, and was active in national education affairs.
        But to generations of students, Mr. Ashburn was ''the boss,'' or simply ''the A,'' the man with the corncob pipe whose very routines became cherished traditions whether he was shaking hands with every boy after supper or sending them birthday cards for years after graduation no matter how much trouble they had been at school.
        As he explained shortly before his death, he loved the bad boys as much as the good boys, maybe more. After all, he said, the bad boys needed more guidance, and from Mr. Ashburn at Brooks they got it.
        Mr. Ashburn, who married his secretary, Jean Lang, after the death of his first wife in 1964, outlived his two daughters. In addition to his wife, he is survived by 7 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      