
        Otto Ernst Fritz Adolf Remer, an unrepentant Nazi who as a young officer helped Hitler retain control of Germany in the crucial hours after a failed assassination attempt in 1944, died on Saturday at his home in Marbella in southern Spain. He was 84.
        Mr. Remer died of natural causes, said Maria Read, the director of the mortuary handling the funeral details. He had used a wheelchair in recent years and breathed with the help of an oxygen pump, Spanish news reports said.
        Mr. Remer was a 31-year-old major in charge of a battalion stationed in Berlin on July 20, 1944, when conspirators left a briefcase bomb near Hitler's chair at a command post in east Prussia. The explosion merely wounded Hitler, but the conspirators spread the word that he was dead.
        Mr. Remer initially followed a general's orders to seal off Berlin Government ministries, but Propaganda Minister Josef Goebbels soon put him on the phone with Hitler, who promoted Mr. Remer to colonel and ordered him to crush the rebellion.
        Mr. Remer was instrumental in the arrest of the conspirators, including Claus von Stauffenberg, the plot leader, and their families. Many were executed, and others were sent to concentration camps, said Shimon Samuels, of the Simon Wiesenthal Center, an organization based in Los Angeles that tracks Nazi war criminals.
        Mr. Remer later won promotion to major general, commanded a division and was responsible for Hitler's personal security. After World War II, he was not sought as a war criminal, but was active from 1950 until his death in neo-Nazi movements.
        In 1994 he fled to Spain to escape a 22-month jail term in Germany for ''inciting hate, violence and racism'' by publicly denying that Nazi gas chambers ever existed or that the Holocaust occurred.
        The Spanish Government agreed to extradite him to Germany, but a Spanish high court overruled the decision in 1996, on the ground that Mr. Remer's statements were not a crime in Spain in 1994. Spain passed a law in 1995 that penalized public expressions of anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial, but Mr. Remer could not be prosecuted under the law for the statements he had made previously.
        Born on Dec. 18, 1912, in Neubrandenburg, Germany, Mr. Remer was wounded at various times while fighting on the Russian front. After the war, he founded the Socialist Reich Party, which got him in trouble with German officials in the early 1950's. After moving to Cairo, he worked with another former Nazi selling German technology, and possibly running arms, to Arab countries, Mr. Samuels said.
        In 1961 he attended a reunion of Nazi veterans in Beirut to promote neo-Nazi movements, and in 1983 he founded a German neo-Nazi group. He also circulated a newsletter,  Remer Depesche, or Remer Telegram, to about 3,000 neo-Nazi followers in Europe.
        By the time Mr. Remer began living on the outskirts of Marbella in 1994, he was regarded as an icon by several thousand Spaniards who adhere to neo-Nazi doctrine, Mr. Samuels said.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie Agustin. He is to be cremated on Friday in Marbella, and his ashes are to be buried in ''the near future'' in Germany, although the family has not disclosed the location, Ms. Read said.
      