
        Bertrand Goldberg, an architect who literally changed the shape of the Chicago skyline in the 1960's with a pair of cylindrical apartment towers known as Marina City, died Wednesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was complications following a stroke, said his son, Geoffrey.
        Marina City was a round peg in a square hole, unlike anything the city had seen in its postwar building boom, which was dominated by the glass boxes of Mies van der Rohe and his followers. With affection and derision, Chicagoans referred to the Marina City towers as ''concrete corncobs,'' which they do resemble -- minus kernels -- with windows recessed behind scallop-shaped balconies.
        Occupying a highly visible site on the Chicago River, just north of the Loop, Marina City seized the popular imagination as a symbol of civic bravura. Until the construction of the John Hancock Center and Sears Tower, it was arguably the city's most widely recognized work of contemporary design.
        Mr. Goldberg was steeped in the Miesian tradition from which he so radically departed, having studied under Mies at the Bauhaus in Germany from 1932 to 1933. On returning to Chicago, he finished his studies at the Armour Institute of Technology (now the Illinois Institute of Technology) and opened his own practice in 1937.
        One of his early innovations was a railroad freight car made of laminated plywood. He also designed furniture and prefabricated housing units.
        Breaking with the rectilinear approach of Miesian architects, which he considered dehumanizing, Mr. Goldberg designed a cylindrical motel in 1957. It was never built, but the notion endured and found towering form at Marina City, which was constructed from 1960 to 1966 and was once the tallest reinforced concrete structure in the world.
        Although widely noted for its sculptural design, Marina City had several other distinctions. It was one of the first mixed-use projects to be built in an American downtown, meant to bring 24-hour-a-day life to a quarter that usually shut down when the work week ended.
        Besides the 65-story towers, with helical parking ramps in their lower floors, Marina City included a marina, restaurants, shops, offices, a theater, a skating rink, bowling lanes and a television studio. Its 896 apartments radiated in a pie-shaped plan.
        Stanley Tigerman, another Chicago architect who battled the Miesian establishment, expressed ambivalence in an interview yesterday about Marina City's design legacy. ''At the level of picture postcards for visitors, they are great,'' he said. ''But at the functional level, the pie shape is the reverse of what it needs to be'' -- since it crimps the rooms closest to the core, like kitchens and bathrooms.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Goldberg designed the 24-story Astor Tower Hotel. It included the Maxim's de Paris restaurant in its basement, which was owned and operated through the mid-1980's by his wife, Nancy Florsheim Goldberg, of the Florsheim shoe family.
        At the 700-unit Raymond M. Hilliard Center housing project of 1966, Mr. Goldberg used cylindrical forms in two buildings for the elderly. The result of this and other touches was a project ''well above the dreary run of low-income housing'' and ''radically at odds with the depressing institutional character of most such buildings,'' said the guide book ''Chicago's Famous Buildings'' (1969), edited by Arthur Siegel.
        What would have been Mr. Goldberg's largest development was River City on the Chicago River, south of the Loop. It was conceived as a community for tens of thousands of residents. But only the first phase of 446 apartments was completed, in 1987.
        Even in its abbreviated form, however, River City is distinctive. A pair of undulating 17-story structures are set parallel to one another, with a winding 100-foot-high arcade between them, called River Road, which is enclosed by skylights.
        ''It is a remarkable space, unusually lyrical and soft in feeling for a structure finished in harsh concrete,'' Paul Goldberger wrote in The New York Times in 1987. ''It is just wide enough to feel important and monumental, just narrow enough to have a sense of energy to it and to avoid being overwhelming.''
        Mr. Goldberg also specialized in designing health-care buildings around the nation, including the Health Sciences Center at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, a two-million-square-foot megastructure completed in 1968. A feature common to many of his hospitals was the arrangement of rooms in a radial plan around the nursing station, so that every patient could be kept in direct visual contact.
        Besides his son, who lives in Chicago, Mr. Goldberg is survived by two daughters, Nan, of San Francisco and Lisa, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren. Mrs. Goldberg died last year.
      