
        Fred Fang Yu Wang, an artist, calligrapher and expert in Chinese art who helped develop the first computer system to teach Chinese, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Wang, who early in life was known as Wang Fang-yu, was born in Beijing in 1913, and educated at the Catholic University there. He came to the United States in 1945 and earned a master's degree from Columbia University in 1946.
        He taught Chinese language and literature at Yale University from 1945 to 1965, then joined the faculty of Seton Hall University, where he became chairman of the department of Asian studies and curator of the Oriental Art Collection. He worked on the computer system while at Seton Hall in the mid-1960's, when interest in the Chinese language was just beginning to grow in the United States. He also wrote Chinese language textbooks.
        All along, Mr. Wang practiced calligraphy and painted, developing a style that was a blend of traditional Chinese calligraphy and contemporary work. Beginning in 1976, he was invited to show his work in many solo exhibitions around the United States and in other countries, including Switzerland, Germany, China and South Korea. His most recent exhibitions took place this year at galleries in San Francisco and New York, at the Taipei Gallery.
        ''It seems to me,'' he once said, ''that I belong to a very small group of Chinese artists, painters and calligraphers of the second half of the 20th century who have succeeded in revitalizing an art form without turning our backs on tradition.''
        Mr. Wang also wrote numerous articles and studies on Chinese art, including ''Master of the Lotus Garden: The Life and Art of Bada Shanren,'' about a well-known Chinese painter of the 17th century. As the leading authority on Bada, Mr. Wang also counted many of his works among his own collection of Chinese paintings.
        He is survived by a daughter, Shan Fung of Rego Park, N.Y.; three sons, Shao, of Short Hills, N.J., Shen, of Rego Park, and Lun, of Brentwood, N.Y., and two sisters, Wang Shi Fen of Beijing and Shih Hiang Chu of Taipei.
        Mr. Wang, a formal, reserved man, was also known for his wry sense of humor, usually displayed when he injected a bon mot -- in Chinese -- into the conversation, said Robert D. Mowry, curator of Chinese art at the Harvard University Art Museums. Mr. Mowry also said that Mr. Wang was generous with his time and his expertise to many art historians.
      