
        Millard Lampell, a screenwriter, novelist and songwriter who survived blacklisting to become an award-winning television writer, died on Oct. 3 at his home in Ashburn, Va. He was 78.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Ramona.
        Mr. Lampell was a socially conscious writer who communicated in every medium he could: books, songs, public speaking, movies and television. He wrote about unions and nuclear war, the Warsaw ghetto and life in the Army, Civil War orphans and integration. He was also a founder of the Almanac Singers with Woody Guthrie, Pete Seeger and Lee Hays, a pioneering urban folk group.
        Mr. Lampell was born in Paterson, N.J., and attended the University of West Virginia on a football scholarship. In the Appalachians, he heard rural folk music. Visiting a roommate's home, he also saw the conditions coal miners worked in and witnessed battles between the United Mineworkers and coal companies.
        In 1940 he began singing with the Almanac Singers. ''We found ourselves performing at union meetings and left-wing benefits for Spanish refugees, striking Kentucky coal miners and Alabama sharecroppers,'' he recalled later.
        Mr. Lampell joined the Air Force, where he became a sergeant; he wrote about his experiences in his first book, ''The Long Way Home.'' He also wrote poems, short stories and a novel, ''The Hero,'' which he adapted as the movie ''Saturday's Hero.'' When he left the Air Force, an appearance on ''Town Hall of the Air'' talking about ''What the G.I. Wants'' led to speaking engagements around the country. ''The Lonesome Train,'' a cantata about Abraham Lincoln with Mr. Lampell's words set to music by Earl Robinson, was performed on television and issued as an album.
        But in 1950 Mr. Lampell was blacklisted, and work dried up. ''My income dropped from a comfortable five figures to $2,000 a year,'' he wrote. He was subpoenaed in 1952 by the Senate Committee on Internal Security and refused to testify about his associations. Through the 1950's he supported himself as a ghostwriter for film and television.
        The blacklist faded gradually. In 1960, Mr. Lampell's adaptation of John Hersey's book ''The Wall,'' about Nazi terror in the Warsaw ghetto, was produced on Broadway. Howard Taubman wrote in The New York Times that it ''combines shattering power with searing compassion.'' It was produced in Europe, and a television adaptation won Peabody and Christopher Awards.
        For the television series ''East Side, West Side'' in 1964, he wrote a teleplay about a black family moving into a white suburb, and it won awards. When his drama ''Eagle in a Cage'' won an Emmy in 1966, he said, ''I think I ought to mention that I was blacklisted for 10 years,'' one of the first public acknowledgments of the effects of the McCarthy era.
        He went on to write television series including ''The Adams Chronicles,'' ''Rich Man, Poor Man'' and ''The Orphan Train,'' which won a Writers Guild Award. Recently he and his wife assembled a book, ''O Appalachia,'' about folk artists. .
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Richard Key of Malibu, Calif., and Guruka Singh of Espanola, N.M; two daughters, Jane Peebles of Pasadena, Calif., and Stephanie Davis of Fairfax, Va.; and  four grandchildren.
      