
        Orlando Ramon Agosti, a member of the military junta that overthrew the Government of Isabel Peron in 1976, opening one of the most violent periods in Argentina's history, died on Monday. He was 73.
        The air force press office said that Mr. Agosti, a former brigadier general who served as the air force commander, died of cancer at the Air Force Hospital here where he was undergoing treatment. He was buried without military honors late Monday in a private ceremony that was attended by a few relatives and friends, the press office said.
        The military regime that Mr. Agosti led with the former army chief, Jorge Rafael Videla, and Emilio Eduardo Massera, the former navy chief, conducted a violent counterinsurgency campaign against leftist guerrillas from 1976 to 1983 in which more than 30,000 people were killed or disappeared without trace.
        In 1985, after the return of democracy to Argentina, the former military leaders were all found guilty of having ordered crimes by the armed forces ranging from robbery and torture to rape and murder.
        Mr. Agosti received the mildest sentence of the convicted junta leaders, mainly because the air force was less involved than the police, army and navy in the military's campaign of repression known as the dirty war.  A civilian court found Mr. Agosti guilty in connection with eight cases of torture and sentenced him to four and a half years in prison. The Supreme Court reduced his sentence to three years and nine months.
        Mr. Agosti, who was released from jail in 1989, was the only member of the military who served the entire sentence handed him by the courts. Mr. Videla, who served as President from 1976 to 1981, and Mr. Massera received life sentences that were overturned by an amnesty signed by President Carlos Saul Menem in 1989 that granted top military officers protection from prosecution.
        Mr. Agosti was born in San Andres de Giles, a district of Buenos Aires, on Dec. 18, 1924, and was married to Elba Esther Boccardo. They had two children. He graduated from the Military Aviation School in 1947 and rose  quickly through the air force ranks, serving as a military attache to the United States and Canada.
        Mr. Agosti was appointed air force chief on Jan. 1, 1976, two months before the military commanders  overthrew Isabel Martinez de Peron,  the third wife of the legendary strongman Gen. Juan D. Peron. Mrs. Peron became President in 1974 after her husband's death.
        After Mr. Agosti was released from prison in 1989, he maintained a low profile while he petitioned the courts to restore his military title under the amnesty granted by President Menem. That battle was lost in 1993 when the Supreme Court rejected his appeal.
        In his final years, Mr. Agosti, like other former military leaders, became a social outcast. In 1995 the Buenos Aires City Council declared Mr. Agosti and other former junta leaders persona non grata.
      