
        William B. Spong, a Democrat who successfully challenged Virginia's political establishment to win election to the United States Senate, died on Wednesday at Maryview Medical Center in Portsmouth, Va. He was 77 and lived in Portsmouth.
        The cause was a ruptured aneurysm, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Spong won in 1966 first by defeating Senator A. Willis Robertson in the Democratic primary and then by beating his Republican opponent in the general election. His victory over Mr. Robertson was the first successful challenge to the Democratic political organization founded by Harry F. Byrd.
        Six years later, Mr. Spong was defeated in his bid for re-election. He lost to William L. Scott, a Republican who rode into office on the strength of President Richard M. Nixon's victory over Senator George McGovern of South Dakota.
        Mr. Spong, a moderate Democrat with an independent streak, was characterized by his heavy, dark-rimmed tortoise-shell glasses and a low-key speaking style. He once described himself as a ''low visibility'' Senator.
        His supporters included blacks and labor unions, but that did not stop him from taking positions that they opposed. An example of this independent streak was his opposition to repealing a section of the Taft-Hartley Act that gave workers the right not to join a union. The Virginia branch of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. had exerted strong pressure to repeal the provision.
        Mr. Spong also distanced himself from some Virginia conservatives by opposing President Nixon's nomination of Judge G. Harrold Carswell to the Supreme Court in 1970.
        Still, he was careful to strive for the middle ground. ''He stands modestly to the left of McKinley,'' observed the conservative columnist James J. Kilpatrick in 1966.
        Mr. Spong, the son of a newspaperman, grew up in Portsmouth and spoke with the Tidewater drawl of the region. He graduated from Hampden-Sydney College and received a law degree from the University of Virginia. He was a founding member of the law firm of Cooper, Spong & Davis in Portsmouth.
        In 1953, he won a seat in the Virginia House of Delegates and two years later defeated a candidate of the Byrd organization to move on the Virginia Senate. He called for Virginians to ''come alive'' and ''look to the future.'' His most conspicuous focus was on improving education after what he denounced as the distortions created by the Byrd organization's ''massive resistance'' to integration. When the legislature created a Commission on Public Education in 1958,  he was named chairman.
        In winning election to the United States Senate in 1966, he became Virginia's first Senator with an urban outlook. He was known for working long hours, and seldom attended social events.
        Mr. Spong's wife, Virginia, died five years ago. His survivors include a son, Thomas Nichols Spong of Hershey, Pa.; a daughter, Martha Kingman Spong of Portland, Me., and five grandchildren.
      