
        Herbert Allen Sr., the financier who with his brother Charles engineered some of the earliest corporate takeovers by Wall Street firms, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88.
        Mr. Allen, who dropped out of high school to become a stock trader, soon joined the investment firm his brother founded, Allen & Company, where he was a partner for more than 55 years.
        He also served for a year as chairman of another concern known as Allen & Company, an investment banking firm that has been run by his son, Herbert A. Allen, since 1965.
        In recent years, Allen & Company has helped put together some of the biggest deals in the media and entertainment industry, including Seagram's purchase of MCA Inc. and Sony's purchase of Columbia Pictures.
        Long before the 1980's, when the technique became famous, the Allen brothers specialized in corporate buyouts, in which investors take over troubled or low-priced companies and try to turn them around. But the Allens did not have to sell junk bonds to pay for their purchases, as later ''buyout artists'' did, relying instead on their own money and that of their partners.
        Though Mr. Allen generally kept a low public profile, in 1956 he became chairman of Benguet Consolidated, , which mined gold and chrome in the Philippines. Although he had acquired control of Benguet ''almost by accident'' when he was trading the company's stock, his son said, Mr. Allen fought off a takeover effort by dissident shareholders in 1962.
        His other major investments included the diversified Ogden Corporation, of which the Allen brothers' firm owned 80 percent in 1953; the Syntex Corporation, a pharmaceutical company that was at one time owned by Ogden, and the Irvine Ranch in California, which became the Irvine Company, the huge real estate and development concern.
        Mr. Allen owned several successful race horses and was also known for his donations, with his relatives, of millions of dollars to Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, which named a community hospital after the family.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Allen's survivors include his wife, Ethel; two sisters, Evelyn Henry of Arcadia, Calif., and Marjorie Bisgood of Manhattan; a brother, Harold, of Great Neck, L.I.; a daughter, Susan, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      