
        Jean Pasqualini, whose book about the seven years he spent as a political prisoner in China's labor camps first exposed the hidden world of the penal system here, died in Paris on Thursday after a long illness. He was 71.
        His book, ''Prisoner of Mao,'' is a harrowing account of life in China's vast apparatus of prisons and labor camps, describing how Chinese authorities used psychological techniques to coerce the innocent and the guilty into submission. It also revealed how thin the line between survival and starvation became during China's famine in the early 1960's.
        When the book was published in France in 1973, Mr. Pasqualini was denounced by many French supporters of China's revolution who refused to believe that the seemingly utopian nation of happy peasants and workers, as they then saw it, could have such a dark side.
        Only years later, after China's politically repressive regime relaxed slightly, releasing other prisoners and admitting its own excesses, did the criticism die away.
        ''Prisoner of Mao'' written with the journalist Rudolph Chelminski, is now widely seen by China scholars as a classic of prison literature and of modern China.
        Born in Beijing to a Corsican father and Chinese mother, Mr. Pasqualini was educated in French and British schools in Tianjin and Shanghai. His Chinese name was Bao Ruowang.
        Able in several languages, he worked as a translator for the United States military and the British Embassy before the Communist Party came to power in 1949.
        By 1957, when the political pendulum in Beijing swung sharply to the left, anyone who had worked with foreigners was suspect, and Mr. Pasqualini was sentenced to 12 years in detention for ''counter-revolutionary activities,'' a vague legal term often used for political crimes.
        His interrogation, during which he was forced to write a 700-page confession, lasted 15 months and was so intense that it left him begging to be sent to a labor camp.
        Yet conditions in the labor camps where he toiled became frightful as China fell into a bitter famine from 1960 to 1962, when an estimated 30 million people died. At one point, Mr. Pasqualini credits a prison doctor with saving his life by warning him not to eat the sawdust that authorities mixed in with daily gruel as an experimental food substitute, no matter how hungry he was.
        Mr. Pasqualini described how in China's ''reform-through-labor'' system, the authorities relentlessly manipulated each prisoner to use daily criticism of others and confessions of their own wrongdoing until each one genuinely believed whatever the authorities told them, including their own guilt.
        Mr. Pasqualini said he fully lost the ability to reason independently, and described an intellectual journey from defiance to skepticism to acceptance to an enthusiastic embrace of the charges against him.
        ''Over the years, Mao's police have perfected their interrogation methods to such a fine point that I would defy any man, Chinese or not, to hold out against them,'' Mr. Pasqualini wrote. ''Their aim is not so much to make you invent nonexistent crimes, but to make you accept your ordinary life, as you led it, as rotten and sinful and worthy of punishment.''
        The isolation was brutal as well. Mr. Pasqualini was only allowed a visit from his wife a year and a half after his arrest. It lasted six minutes.
        At that time, Mr. Pasqualini also wrote, most prisoners were never allowed to leave the labor camp system. Those whose terms expired were often required to stay, and simply called ''freed workers,'' one reason why there were so few eyewitness accounts of the camps.
        Mr. Pasqualini was released in 1964, as a gesture of good will toward France when it established diplomatic relations with China.
        He moved to Paris, but did not tell his story publicly for years. Mr. Chelminski persuaded him to write a book together, which became a best-seller in France and was translated into several languages. A French film by the same name was made in 1977.
        Mr. Pasqualini left a son behind in China, named Paul, who was allowed to emigrate to France in 1978. In his later years, Mr. Pasqualini worked as a translator for Newsweek and Life magazines.
      