
        William E. Hartman, whose teachings and research on sex influenced a generation of sex therapists, died on Sept. 26 in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Long Beach.
        The cause was myasthenia gravis, a degenerative muscle disease, said Marilyn A. Fithian, his longtime colleague and companion.
        The team of Hartman and Fithian earned notice for studies on orgasms and sexual dysfunction, as well as their teaching. Sexologists often include Mr. Hartman and Ms. Fithian alongside figures like Alfred Kinsey,  and William Masters and Virginia Johnson.
        In 1968, Mr. Hartman and Ms. Fithian founded the Center for Marital and Sexual Studies in Long Beach to conduct sex therapy and observe, film and monitor the physiology of subjects in sexual activity. A resulting book, ''Treatment of Sexual Dysfunction,'' is still used as a text. The book was among the first to discuss the importance of having a good self-image to achieve sexual fulfillment.
        Mr. Hartman and Ms. Fithian also advocated using trained sexual surrogates to help people with sexual difficulties. In 1984, Mr. Hartman and Ms. Fithian wrote ''Any Man Can,'' about multiple male orgasms.
        Such research came at a personal cost to Mr. Hartman, who was reared a Mormon. He was ultimately excommunicated; near his death, he  was trying to win readmission.
        Mr. Hartman's first major research was a study of nudism. He once told of being apprehensive about asking for a grant to conduct the study because of its controversial nature in the early 1960's. In the end, he received the money, but with the caveat that he could not drive to nudist clubs in a campus-owned car.
        In that research, Mr. Hartman first enlisted the help of Ms. Fithian to administer questionnaires. Their findings, that nudists were normal people who were comfortable with their bodies, were published in 1970 in ''Nudist Society.''
        Mr. Hartman was born on Feb. 17, 1919, in Meadville, Pa. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctorate in sociology at the University of Southern California. He joined the faculty at the California State University at Long Beach in 1951 and retired in 1980. Mr. Hartman and Ms. Fithian closed the Center for Sexual and Marital Studies in 1984 but continued to give seminars.
        Surviving are five sons, Larry, of Yucca Valley, Calif., Paul, of Encinitas, Calif., Steve, of Claremont, Calif., Taylor, of Sandy, Utah, and William Jr., of Platt City, Mo., and two daughters, Carol Whipple of Bountiful, Utah, and Beverly Rasmussen of Fruit Heights, Utah.
      