
        Kenneth F. Hahn, a giant of Los Angeles politics for 45 years who helped relocate the Dodgers baseball team from Brooklyn, died on Sunday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, James K. Hahn, the Los Angeles City Attorney.
        Mr. Hahn served on the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors for 10 consecutive terms from 1952 to 1992, representing an ethnically diverse district that included the predominantly black neighborhood of South Central Los Angeles. His time on the board coincided with Southern California's tremendous post-war growth and the periodic turmoil that defined the politics of his era.
        Mr. Hahn gave tremendous support to the effort to move the Dodgers to Los Angeles in 1958, lobbying city officials and leading a campaign to gain public approval. He was the first official from Los Angeles to talk with the Dodgers owner, Walter O'Malley, about relocating the team, and they were together in a helicopter when Mr. O'Malley spotted the site near downtown where Dodger Stadium was eventually built.
        In 1965, after the Watts riots, Mr. Hahn worked for the construction of a public hospital to serve that devastated area even after voters refused to provide financing. He later fought to have the hospital's name changed to honor the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whom he met in 1961.
        People sometimes refer to him as a ''pothole politician'' who diligently tended to the needs of his electorate, from building parks to fixing streets. It was not uncommon for Mr. Hahn to stop his car to chat with people on the sidewalk, they say, or to visit a firehouse on a whim.
        ''He epitomizes what a local political official should be,'' said Rosalind Wyman, who served on the Los Angeles City Council from 1953 to 1965 and who was one of Mr. Hahn's friends.
        He was instrumental in creating the county's paramedic system and made Los Angeles the first city in the nation to have telephones installed along the freeway for stranded motorists. He was also behind several big construction projects, including the Music Center and the metro system. The county administration building is named in his honor.
        In 1987, Mr. Hahn suffered a stroke that left him partly paralyzed. Nevertheless, he was re-elected in 1988 with 84 percent of the vote.
        Mr. Hahn began his political career in 1947 with a successful run for a seat on the Los Angeles City Council. At 26, he was the youngest person at the time to ever serve on the Council, and at 32, was the youngest at the time to serve as a county supervisor.
        Mr. Hahn was born on Aug. 19, 1920, in Los Angeles, and except for his time in the Navy he never lived more than three miles from his childhood home. He graduated from Pepperdine College with a political science degree in 1942 and immediately joined the Navy, serving for four years as a lieutenant. Upon returning from World War II, he taught political science and history at Pepperdine.
        Mr. Hahn's son was elected city controller in 1981 and then city attorney in 1985. His daughter, Janice, was elected in 1996 to the Los Angeles Charter Reform Commission.
        Besides his children, Mr. Hahn is survived by his wife, Romona, of Los Angeles.
      