
        Peter Donald Andreoli, a retired lawyer who prosecuted racketeering cases in New York City and investigated political corruption in Syracuse, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Pelham, N.Y.
        Mr. Andreoli spent more than 30 years in public service, starting under Frank S. Hogan, the legendary Manhattan District Attorney. He continued under Mr. Hogan's successor, Robert M. Morgenthau, and, in 1976, he was chosen by Gov. Hugh L. Carey and State Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz for the delicate task of looking into allegations of official misconduct in Onondaga County, N.Y.
        A year after graduating from Columbia Law School in 1947, he was appointed an assistant District Attorney by Mr. Hogan. Over the years in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, he conducted long-range investigations and successfully prosecuted some outstanding cases. His targets in the late 1960's included illegal wiretappers, most of whom had worked as private investigators.
        A few years earlier he closed in on corruption in basketball and obtained convictions of 10 fixers who bribed college athletes to rig the scores of intercollegiate games. His investigation uncovered bribery or attempted bribery involving 47 players at 27 schools in 17 states.
        From 1976 to 1981, Mr. Andreoli was a special Deputy State Attorney General and a special State Prosecutor in Syracuse, the Onondaga County seat. He obtained indictments from three grand juries as well as a string of convictions of politicians and contractors on charges including  kickbacks from local companies in exchange for county contracts and illegal solicitation of political contributions from county employees.
        From Syracuse he returned to private practice in Pelham.
        Mr. Andreoli, who was born in the Long Island City section of Queens, graduated from St. John's University in 1941.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Catherine McCarthy Andreoli; two sons, Peter D. Jr. of Centreville, Va., and Brian E. of Bethel, Conn.; three daughters, Catherine F. Andreoli of Bowie, Md., and Christine L. and Francine E. Andreoli of Pelham; a brother, Caesar T. of Long Island City, and nine grandchildren.
      