
        Harold Robbins, a writer whose formula of sex, money and power made him one of the best-selling authors of his day, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palm Springs.
        The cause was pulmonary arrest, said a family friend, Jay Roberts.  Mr. Robbins suffered a stroke in 1982 that left him with a slight case of aphasia, a partial loss of the ability to use or understand words. He also had a hip ailment that had confined him to a wheelchair.
        Mr. Robbins's novels were always gossipy, always offered a mystery of sorts and always seemed to be interminable, much to the delight of readers who grabbed up more than 50 million copies in 40 countries.
        The works also frequently seemed to present a central figure who strongly resembled a famous person, like Aristotle Onassis, Howard Hughes, Porfirio Rubirosa or Lana Turner, who, as it happens, once starred in a lavish prime-time soap opera based on one of his books.
        In a Robbins novel, women were beautiful, wealthy and wanton; men  were possessed of all the restraint of  college freshmen, and the plots contained accounts of some randy doings, which one critic said he would not have tried to describe to anyone, not even those who had occupied his Army barracks.
        Mr. Robbins, who once predicted that he would ultimately be known ''as the best writer in the world,''  said he never rewrote anything and never tried to figure out a plot in advance.
        He called himself a ''people writer.'' He said, ''I start with people, and then I find out what the plot is all about.'' He also said he had experienced all the vices he described in his 20 books.
        If Mr. Robbins's plots were consistent in their use of heavy breathing, the comments of the critics were just as consistent in their largely unsuccessful efforts to wave off the serious reader. Assessing Mr. Robbins's slick, terse style, The New Yorker commented in 1969, ''Harold Robbins does not loom large -- does not loom at all, in fact -- in the New York literary world.''
        Whether he loomed or not, Mr. Robbins was a best-selling author from his first novel, ''Never Love a Stranger.'' Published in 1948, it concerned itself with a New York hustler who became a garment district racketeer. It was made into a film in 1957, and like his other novels it remained in print for years.
        His other books included ''The Dream Merchants'' (1949), ''79 Park Avenue'' (1955), ''The Carpetbaggers'' (1961), ''The Betsy'' (1971) and ''Dreams Die First'' (1977). Among the books made into movies were ''Never Love a Stranger,'' ''The Carpetbaggers,'' ''The Adventurers,'' ''The Betsy'' and ''Dreams Die First.'' Another film, ''Nevada Smith,'' was based on a character in ''The Carpetbaggers.''
        Asked in 1977 to account for his success, Mr. Robbins replied: ''I'm the best around. No one can compare with what I've done. Hemingway was a fantastic short-story writer, but as a novelist, he could never put it together.'' He did say that he admired some writers, though, among them John Steinbeck, James T. Farrell and John O'Hara. He said he also appreciated the work of his colleague in popular fiction, Irving Wallace.
        But he said he thought that Norman Mailer had little to say after ''The Naked and the Dead,'' that Alberto Moravia ''had lost it,'' and that the best thing about Jean-Paul Sartre was Simone de Beauvoir, his wife.
        Harold Robbins was born May 21, 1916, in New York City. He never knew who his parents were; the name on his birth certificate was Francis Kane. He was placed in a Roman Catholic orphanage in Hell's Kitchen and derived his name from one of the foster homes in which he was placed, that of a family named Rubins.
        Mr. Robbins dropped out of George Washington High School late in the 1920's and worked at a succession of jobs, among them errand boy, bookies' runner and inventory clerk in a grocery store. The grocery business gave him an idea for making money, and when he was 19 years old, he borrowed $800 and started speculating on crop futures. He later said he was a millionaire by the time he turned 20 but lost it all gambling on the future price of sugar.
        Broke but retaining his interest in numbers and in their practical application to business, he got a job at the New York warehouse of Universal Pictures. There, starting as a clerk in 1940, he rose quickly and in 1942 became the executive director of budget and planning. He remained with Universal as an executive until 1957.
        He said he did not become interested in writing until 1946, when he was 30. An early one for Alfred A. Knopf, ''A Stone for Danny Fisher,'' (1952), about a sensitive boy growing to manhood while being victimized by circumstances, drew respectful attention from critics. Thomas Thompson of Life magazine wrote that if Mr. Robbins had ended his career there, the novel would have reserved ''a small place in literature'' for him. Hollywood toned it down, moving the setting from Chicago to New Orleans, renaming it ''King Creole'' and casting Elvis Presley. It was released by Paramount in 1958.
        Indeed, many of his novels were made into movies, and Mr. Robbins found himself awash in money, more than he had ever dreamed of making when he was speculating on crop futures. A baldish, chubby man who had tended to favor conservative business suits, a newly affluent Mr. Robbins let his sideburns grow, developed an interest in fine food and serious gambling, bought a yacht and lived the good life in homes he maintained on the French Riviera and in Beverly Hills.
        He had been married five times when, on Valentine's Day in 1992, Mr. Robbins married Jann Stapp, a former Oklahoma City public-relations  agent who had worked as his assistant. He vowed that it would be his last marriage.
        Besides Ms. Stapp, he is survived by two daughters from previous marriages, Caryn and Adreana.
        As a general rule, the publication of a Harold Robbins novel was a time for critics to make sure the brickbats were handy and in good supply. But readers in more than 40 countries made sure it was their wallets that were handy; they bought a total of 50 million copies of these books.
        Never Love a Stranger 1948
        The Dream Merchants 1949
        A Stone for Danny Fisher 1952
        Never Leave Me 1953
        79 Park Avenue 1955
        Stiletto 1960
        The Carpetbaggers 1961
        Where Love Has Gone 1962
        The Adventurers 1966
        The Inheritors 1969
        The Betsy 1971
        The Pirate 1974
        The Lonely Lady 1976
        Dreams Die First 1977
        Memories of Another Day 1979
        Goodbye, Janette 1981
        Spellbinder 1982
        Descent From Xanadu 1984
        The Storyteller 1985
        The Piranhas 1991
        The Raiders 1994
        The Stallion 1996
        Tycoon 1997
      