
        Brown Meggs, a record company executive who was chief operating officer of Capitol Records in the 1960's and 70's, and who returned to the company as president of its classical division in 1984 after an eight-year hiatus in which he published several novels, died on Oct. 8 at his home in San Francisco. He was 66.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage, his son, Brook, said.
        During his years at Capitol, a subsidiary of EMI Records, Mr. Meggs oversaw a vast catalogue of recordings in every genre. His own musical preferences were for classical music and opera, and during the first part of his tenure he streamlined operations at Capitol's classical division, Angel, and established an association with the Soviet state-owned Melodiya label, which gave Angel access to recordings by Sviatoslav Richter, Kirill Kondrashin and other great Russian artists. He also established Seraphim, a budget line through which Angel could release historical recordings and items of specialized interest.
        Mr. Meggs always said he had little interest in popular music yet his instincts in that field proved crucial to Capitol's financial success in the 1960's. Most notably, he signed the Beatles to the label for American distribution in 1963. Capitol had by then rejected the group's first four singles, which had been released in Europe by Parlophone, another EMI label. Those disks were issued by several small American labels, with little success. When Brian Epstein, the Beatles' manager, played Mr. Meggs an advance pressing of ''I Want to Hold Your Hand'' in November 1963, Mr. Meggs, who was then director of east coast operations, agreed to put the company's marketing muscle behind the group.
        In 1976, after several years as chief operating officer of Capitol, he resigned abruptly. ''It occurred to me that I didn't like to go to my office in the morning,'' Mr. Meggs later told an interviewer. ''I was spending all my time dealing with pop artists and their managers and lawyers, and I realized that there were other things I wanted to do.''
        He had, by then, already published two novels, ''Saturday Games,'' which won the Mystery Writers of America's Edgar Allan Poe Award, in 1974, and ''The Matter of Paradise,'' in 1975.
        His third novel, ''Aria,'' published in 1978, was about the making of a recording of Verdi's ''Otello,'' and was considered required reading for anyone who wanted to know how classical record companies work. A fourth novel, ''The War Train,'' was published in 1981.
        In 1984, EMI lured Mr. Meggs back to the record business by promising him that as president of Angel, he would deal only with classical music. Over the next six years he revived the moribund Angel label and ushered it into the compact disk era. He left the company in 1990 when pancreatic cancer was diagnosed in his wife, Nancy Bates Meachen. She died that year.
        Mr. Meggs is survived by his son, of Austin, Tex., and three sisters, Peggy Meggs White of Los Angeles, Toby Meggs Wiley of Coronado, Calif., and Vicky Meade Dillon of Laguna Niguel, Calif.
      