
        Philip L. Ravenhill, chief curator of the National Museum of African Art, part of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 52.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a museum official.
        Mr. Ravenhill, an anthropologist, came to the National Museum of African Art when it opened in a new building on the National Mall in 1987. During his tenure, he organized a number of exhibitions of both classical and contemporary African art.
        He oversaw the reinstallation of the museum's collection of classical African art, and in 1991 created a permanent installation from the museum's holdings titled ''The Art of the Personal Object.'' He was responsible for the show titled ''Gifts to the National Collection of African Art,'' which opened last month to celebrate the museum's decade on the Mall. The more than two dozen works in the show were brought into the collection under his stewardship.
        He was particularly interested in acquiring contemporary African art. With the museum's director, Roslyn A. Walker, he organized a show of the Nigerian-born sculptor Sokari Douglas Camp, three of whose works are now on permanent display in the museum's lobby. A major exhibition of modern art that he was organizing for the museum will open as scheduled next fall.
        As a scholar, Mr. Ravenhill produced the definitive study on the Wan people, an ethnic group in Ivory Coast. His recent publications included ''Dreams and Reveries: Images of Otherworld Mates among the Baule of West Africa'' (1996), ''The Self and the Other: Personhood and Images Among the Baule, Cote d'Ivoire'' (1994) and the catalogue for ''The Art of the Personal Object.'' He was completing a book on the museum's collection of classical African art at the time of his death. He also worked on a number of films about the art and culture of Africa, and was on the editorial boards of the journals ''African Arts'' and ''Museum Anthropology.''
        He was born in Bath, England. He received a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Nyack College in Nyack, N.Y., in 1968, and a master's degree (1970) and a doctorate (1976) in anthropology from the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
        Before joining the Smithsonian, he was a senior research fellow at the International African Institute in London and project director of the West African Museums Project in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, a program financed by the Ford Foundation to bring assistance museums in the area.
        He was also a member of the steering committee of the West African Museums Program. In that capacity,  he helped design courses and workshops to train a corps of museum conservators in the preservation of fragile objects and materials in African museums, always vulnerable institutions. Mr. Ravenhill's residency in Europe, Africa and the United States made him a particularly valued link among anthropologists and historians of African art throughout the world.
        He is survived by two sons, Geoffrey of Rhode Island and Brendan of Oberlin, Ohio; a daughter, Amanda,  of Bolivia; his companion Massumeh Farhad of Washington; his mother,  Martha Ravenhill of Lindale, Tex., and two brothers, Paul of Lindale,  and David of Harbor, Wash.
      