
        Edison Avery Price, the inventive lighting master whose innovative fixture designs give minimalist modern interiors their unobtrusive glow and shed new hidden light on old masters and other museum art, died on Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 79 and widely recognized as the originator of the entire modern lighting consulting industry
        His family said the cause was heart failure.
        Stroll into the lobby of almost any high-style modern office building or walk through virtually any major museum or art gallery, and if you have trouble figuring out where the light is coming from, you can be sure that Edison Price or one of his disciples has been at work.
        From the time he went to work for his family's stage lighting company at the age of 17 in 1935 until the night of his death when the Metropolitan Museum of Art opened a photography gallery lighted by his newest miniature fixtures, Mr. Price was in the forefront of an industry he virtually created.
        Along the way he was credited with inventing everything from glare-free recessed fixtures to the ubiquitous track lighting systems and became an indispensable ally to the greatest architects of his day.
        For Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, he designed and built the small lights that wash the walls of the lobby of the Seagram Building with gentle light.
        For Philip Johnson he provided the recessed fixtures that bathe the Four Seasons restaurant in light.
        During most of his career Mr. Price ran Edison Price Lighting, an East 60th Street company that became famous as one of the last manufacturing operations on the Upper East Side. After losing a family struggle for control of the company in 1981 he operated Nulux Lighting in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn.
        A native of Manhattan whose father died when he was 8, Mr. Price graduated from the Birch Wathem high school. With no funds for college, he went to work for Display State Lighting, a company his father had started and his mother had kept going.
        A brilliant man often described as a genius, Mr. Price learned his craft by trial and error and by studying technical journals put out by the Society of Illuminating Engineers.
        When waves of international style architects began transforming the skyline of Manhattan in the 1950's with ranks of stark, glass-curtained towers with clean lines and uncluttered spaces, Mr. Price recognized a new opportunity and seized it.
        Selling his interest in the stage lighting company, he set himself up as an independent inventor, designer, manufacturer and lighting consultant and was soon swamped with business from prominent architects with demands for unobtrusive lighting.
        Before he was finished Mr. Price had worked with I. M. Pei on the East Wing of the National Gallery in Washington, with Mr. Johnson on the A.T.&T. Building on Fifth Avenue, and on various projects with Marcel Breuer, Louis Kahn and Buckminster Fuller.
        Mr. Price's designs were so advanced and in such demand that his lights illuminate paintings and other art in more than 200 museums around the world, among them he Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum in New York, the Kimball Museum in Ft. Worth and the Louvre in Paris.
        An inveterate tinkerer who worked closely with a mathematician associate, Isaac Goodbar, on many of his inventions, Mr. Price was known also as a master craftsman who could work wonders with sheet metal.
        Design and manufacture took up so much of his time that he eventually gave up his consulting work, creating an opening for a wave of independent consultants who established a new industry confering with architects and museum directors and buying from Mr. Price.
        Mr. Price who never created a fixture he couldn't improve, did not publish a catalog, forcing consultants to sometimes sneak copies of his drawings so they would have an idea of just what was available.
        As a result, the business remained small, catering only to a select clientel of consultants, until his daughter Emma, with the backing of other relatives who had been given stock, forced him to sell out in 1981 and began an expansion of the company that has increased its sales several fold.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Price is survived by his wife, Laura of Falls River, Mass.; two other daughters, Delia of Brooklyn and Charlotte Aaron of London, and four grandchildren.
      