
        Al (Jazzbo) Collins, a disk jockey and television host who broadcast his favorite music from the imaginary Purple Grotto, died on Tuesday. He was 78 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patti.
        Mr. Collins was born in Rochester,  the son of a musician, and grew up on Long Island. In 1941, while attending the University of Miami in Florida, he substituted as the announcer for his English teacher's campus radio program and decided to make radio his career. His first professional job was as a disk jockey on a bluegrass radio station in Logan, W.Va. He was working in Salt Lake City when he visited New York in 1950 to appear on the Robert Q. Lewis television show. He wangled an audition at WNEW, the FM radio station, and was hired on the spot. Playing the jazz and standards that he preferred, he took his nickname, Jazzbo, from the Jazzbeau necktie worn then by jazz fans.
        At WNEW, he decided to situate his show in a fantasy underground landscape, the Purple Grotto, populated by creatures like Harrison, the purple Tasmanian owl, and Jukes, a purple chameleon. Speaking in beatnik-inspired slang with a low, leisurely voice, he drew a loyal following.  He was known for his horn-rimmed glasses and his wardrobe of jump suits, including a formal one.
        Mr. Collins worked during the 1950's at WNEW, WRCA and WINS in New York City, with an interlude in Salt Lake City. He also appeared on television as the host of a silent-movie program in 1956 on WRCA-TV and for 13 weeks as the host of the ''Tonight Show'' between the reigns of Steve Allen and Jack Paar.
        He moved west in the early 1960's and worked at the San Francisco radio station KSFO and concurrently as a morning-show host at KGO-TV. He decided then to change the spelling of his nickname to Jazzbeaux. Every so often, he would relocate his show from the Purple Grotto to ''Collins on a Cloud.'' He also worked in Los Angeles and Pittsburgh, returned to WNEW for a while and most recently had a radio program on KCSM in San Mateo, Calif.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Teal, of Mill Valley; by three children from a former marriage, Bruce, of Los Angeles, and Brad and Chrissie Collins of Salt Lake City; three stepchildren, Ginger Wolbers of San Diego, Robbi Gregorich of Virginia, Minn., and Carl Collins of Lower Lake, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 7, 1997, Tuesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Al (Jazzbo) Collins, the disk jockey who broadcast from the imaginary Blue Grotto, misstated the band on which radio station WNEW broadcast in New York when it hired him in 1950. It was AM then; it is FM now.
      