
        Nicholas Hinton, a Briton who was president of the International Crisis Group, a private, independent organization that seeks to help forestall  man-made disasters in unstable parts of the world and has been monitoring peace efforts in Bosnia, died last Monday while traveling in Croatia. He was 54 and lived in London.
        The cause was a heart attack as he rode with Crisis Group colleagues along the Adriatic coast toward Bosnia, Reuters said, quoting co-workers and a Balkan news agency, HINA.
        The Crisis Group was founded in July 1995 under the chairmanship of  George J. Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader. The Group asserted last September that in the Bosnian election held that month the number of ballots counted had been several hundred thousand higher than the number of potential voters.
        The Crisis Group said that election officials -- almost all of them chosen by the governing parties -- had stuffed the ballot boxes. Nonetheless, on Sept. 30 the Western officials who oversaw the voting certified its outcome.
        Mr. Hinton oversaw work by the Crisis Group in Sierra Leone as well as Bosnia, and the organization has worked to forestall further mass bloodshed in Central Africa.
        From 1985 to 1994 he was director general of the Save the Children Fund of the United Kingdom, a private, nonprofit organization that carries out relief and welfare operations on behalf of children.
        He was also, for some years, chairman of the International Save the Children Alliance, comprising 24 independent Save the Children organizations, including the one in the United States. Co-workers in the Save the Children movement said he was a champion of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was passed by the General Assembly in 1989.
        Mr. Hinton was born in Wiltshire, studied at Cambridge and worked at  many other nonprofit organizations.
        He is survived by his wife, Deborah Mary, and a daughter, Josephine.
      