
        Kenneth Vivian Thimann, a leading botanist whose discoveries advanced the basic understanding of plant life, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 92.
        Dr. Thimann, a pioneer in plant physiology, was best known for describing how hormones control plant development. In particular he isolated and purified the universal growth hormone auxin. His success in identifying its chemical structure for synthetic manufacture proved a boon for the farming and horticultural industries.
        His research furthered understanding of the biosynthesis of the pigments responsible for the colors of flowers and fruits, and of the role of various wavelengths of the light in photosynthesis. In his later years he investigated the mechanisms of plant aging, with special focus on leaves.
        Dr. Thimann played a pivotal role in sorting out principal functions like the control of cell elongation, the formation of roots and the growth of buds. That third function he unraveled with Dr. Folke Skoog. It involved a balance between auxin and another growth hormone called kinetin, which Dr. Skoog had isolated earlier with other associates.
        Dr. Thimann received the Balzan Prize, worth $110,000, in 1982. The prize, awarded in scientific fields not covered by the Nobel Prize, is given annually by an international foundation in Europe.
        ''The elucidation of the way individual hormones act in connection with other hormones present is considered as one of his greatest achievements,'' the Balzan Prize committee wrote.
        A member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Dr. Thimann was showered with awards and honorary degrees by institutions on both sides of the Atlantic. A citation from Brown University in 1989 said his discoveries ''have had far-reaching application to the feeding of our planet.''
        He wrote or contributed to about 300 research papers and several books. Three books that left his imprint on the development of modern botany were ''Phytohormones,'' with Frits W. Went (1937); ''The Life of Bacteria'' (1955), and ''Hormone Action in the Whole Life of Plants'' (1977).
        Born in Ashford, England, Dr. Thimann received bachelor's and doctoral degrees in chemistry and biochemistry at Imperial College, University of London, and a diploma from the University of Graz, Austria. He joined the faculty of the California Institute of Technology in 1930 as an instructor in bacteriology and biochemistry.
        Starting in 1935, he spent 30 years at Harvard University, where he directed the biological laboratories in the 1940's and held the Higgins Chair in Biology in the 1960's.
        In 1965 he accepted a professorship in biology at the new Santa Cruz campus of the University of California. He served as the founding provost of Crown College there and stimulated its early growth.
        He retired as provost in 1972 but remained active for many years in research and campus affairs. He nurtured the campus's renowned arboretum and, an accomplished amateur pianist, founded the Crown Chamber Players with his wife, Ann Mary Bateman Thimann. She died in 1987.
        Dr. Thimann moved to Haverford two years later to be near his three daughters, Prof. Vivianne Nachmias of Philadelphia and Karen Romer, associate dean at Brown, and Linda Dewing, both of Providence, R.I. Also surviving are six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      