
        Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who steered The New York Times through 34 years of expansion and enormous changes in the way it delivers the news to its readers, retired yesterday as chairman and chief executive of The New York Times Company, the newspaper's parent company.
        Mr. Sulzberger had relinquished control over the newspaper's daily operations in 1992, when he stepped aside after 29 years as publisher in favor of his son, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. The generational changing of the guard was completed yesterday with the announcement that the elder Mr. Sulzberger, 71, had also turned over corporate leadership to his son.
        His action affirmed that in a troubled age for American newspapers, when many of them worry about their future and are increasingly governed by distant corporate boards, control of The Times would remain with the Sulzberger family, the paper's guiding force for 101 years.
        The younger Mr. Sulzberger, 46, took over as chairman, and Russell T. Lewis, 50, the company's president, became the chief executive -- positions that the elder Mr. Sulzberger had held since 1973. Michael Golden, 48, a cousin of the younger Mr. Sulzberger, was named senior vice president and vice chairman.
        Mr. Sulzberger, who is also chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in no way took full leave from The Times. He was named chairman emeritus, and he remains a company director. In his emeritus capacity, he will lead a transition team consisting of his son, Mr. Lewis and Mr. Golden, ''so as to make the changes as seamless as possible,'' he said in a memo to Times Company employees, which he signed with his nickname, Punch.
        Still, yesterday had an end-of-an-era feel, deepened for some by physical changes in The Times that coincided with the departing chairman's last day -- a day that included brief farewell remarks to reporters, editors, photographers and others who crowded around him in The Times's newsroom.
        Joseph Lelyveld, the executive editor, told the group that three things made it a landmark day in the newspaper's history. For the first time, the daily Times ran color photos on its front page. Its 138 pages also made it the fattest daily Times in history. And for the first time, Mr. Lelyveld noted, the paper had a chairman emeritus.
        ''There are four things,'' Mr. Sulzberger chimed in. ''The stock is at an all-time high.''
        That remark brought a laugh. But it reflected a harsher reality, that the newspaper's growth had not always been a straight upward path, and that at times its very survival had been in question.
        It was a struggling Times whose helm he took in 1963, soon after a 114-day New York newspaper strike that rapidly altered the face of the industry in the city. More adversity would follow in the 1970's, and again in the late 1980's, as New York City's economy stumbled badly.
        Mr. Sulzberger's response was to invest in improvements and to expand the paper rather than slice costs to such a degree that journalistic quality would suffer.
        In the mid-1970's, The Times went from its traditional two sections to four (and in recent weeks it has expanded again, to six parts in the New York edition on most days). To diversify income sources, Mr. Sulzberger also presided over the company's acquisition of magazines, television and radio stations and other compatible businesses. He also presided over the start of a national edition of The Times, and later, of editions for the Boston and Washington regions. Earlier, in 1967, he had put Times stock up for public sale, though the controlling interest remained with the family.
        For the most part, he left news judgments to his senior editors. ''He was not an absentee landlord, but neither was he a nudge,'' said A. M. Rosenthal, a former executive editor, now a columnist.
        Like others who had worked closely with Mr. Sulzberger, he spoke of the former publisher's personal warmth, modesty and self-deprecating humor. Max Frankel, who succeeded Mr. Rosenthal as executive editor, put it this way: ''Unpretentiousness is his greatest gift.''
        ''He was remarkably serene about letting subordinates do their work,'' Mr. Frankel said. ''His interventions were extremely polite.''
        But the interventions were there when necessary, and no one at The Times ever doubted where the buck ultimately stopped. It was he who decided in 1971 to publish the Pentagon Papers, the secret Government history of the Vietnam War -- a decision that led to a landmark ruling by the Supreme Court that upheld a newspaper's right to publish free of government's ''prior restraint.''
        ''When a decision like that has to be made, with the paper's future at stake, it's up to the publisher,'' said Mr. Rosenthal, who was editor then.
        Looking back in an interview yesterday, Mr. Sulzberger said that no news decision had been bigger for him than running the Pentagon Papers. ''Thank goodness,'' he quickly added.
        ''You can only do a few of those in a lifetime,'' he said.
        In his message to company employees, Mr. Sulzberger summed it up this way: ''It's been a glorious run -- up some hills but down a lot more.'' But he added that he was now relinquishing leadership ''secure in the knowledge that together we have built an organization on rock solid footings, and that our best years are yet to come.''
        ''I remain convinced that we always fare better when we take the high road, that truth, decency, understanding and compassion should be among our most burnished hallmarks,'' he said. ''And I turn over the reins knowing that those who pick them up share in those values.''
        In 1963, when he took over as publisher from his brother-in-law, Orvil E. Dryfoos, who had suddenly died, the newspaper's revenue was $101 million. Last year, Times Company revenue was $2.6 billion. Its holdings include The Boston Globe, 21 regional newspapers, 8 television stations, 9 magazines, 2 radio stations in New York City, a news service, a features syndicate and related communications interests that include on-line versions of The Times. Today, The Times has the highest circulation among the nation's seven-day newspapers -- 1.09 million on weekdays and 1.67 million on Sundays.
        Mr. Sulzberger said that he was stepping down now because ''it's time.''
        ''And the time to do it,'' he added, ''is when things are good.''
        The new chairman, who represents the fourth generation of his family to guide The Times since its patriarch, Adolph S. Ochs, bought the newspaper in 1896, emphasized the family's continuing role.
        ''The most important partnership in this institution is the relationship between the family and the nonfamily management,'' he said in an interview. The changes announced yesterday, he added, ''continue on a corporate level the partnership that allows this institution to survive.''
        In the end-of-an-era vein, he made clear that he considered it his father's day. He said that after the Times Company directors approved the new changes yesterday, he was invited into the board room. His father gave up his seat at the head of the table, and moved to the side.
        The younger Mr. Sulzberger said he then asserted, ''If you think I'm sitting in that chair, you're nuts.''
        ''I said a few words standing,'' he said.
        When Punch Sulzberger became publisher in 1963, at 37, he became the youngest chief executive in Times history. (The nickname has stuck since boyhood, given to him by his father, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, who was The Times's publisher from 1935 to 1961. It was a counterpoint to ''Judy,'' as an elder sister, Judith, was called at home.)
        In truth, not everyone, even within his family, felt that Mr. Sulzberger was up to the task. When he relinquished the publisher's title five years ago, he recalled that after his first day on the job, another sister, Ruth, asked how he thought it had gone. His response, he said, was: ''I've made my first executive decision. I've decided not to throw up.''
        That tentativeness did not last long.
        In time, Mr. Sulzberger negotiated agreements with labor unions that made it possible for the paper to introduce new technology and to make its operations more efficient. When financial crises struck in the 1970's, he supervised the start of new sections like Living, on Wednesday, and Home, on Thursday, that led not only to higher circulation but also to increased advertising.
        Some critics were appalled by the new sections. But Mr. Rosenthal said  they added dimension to the paper without detracting from its news coverage. ''Instead of putting more water in the soup, we put in more tomatoes,'' he said. And Mr. Sulzberger, assessing the overall quality of the paper, has said that he took particular pride in the 31 Pulitzer Prizes that it won in his era as publisher.
        The special sections were soon imitated by newspapers throughout the country, as was another innovation that took place on his watch: the Op-Ed page, which was created in 1970 to give a voice both to Times columnists and to outside writers who might differ with the paper's editorial positions.
        Mr. Sulzberger, too, did not always agree with the editorials. In 1966, for example, he was displeased when he saw that the first edition one night carried a harsh and highly emotional editorial on American bombings in Vietnam. He ordered that it be toned down for the second edition. And in 1976, it was at the publisher's instigation that the newspaper endorsed Daniel Patrick Moynihan for United States Senator over Bella Abzug.
        But more commonly, the publisher let his annoyances be known in periodic letters to the editor that he wrote under the name of A. Sock, a wordplay on Punch. One letter in 1979 produced a rebuttal letter that said in conclusion, ''Mr. Sock deserves a punch.'' It was written by Gail Gregg, Mr. Sulzberger's daughter-in-law. The publisher was convinced that his cover had been blown, and A. Sock's letters never appeared again in The Times.
        Mr. Sulzberger brought humor even to a decision as momentous as the one to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971. At a dinner last year, he gave a droll account of what happened after Mr. Rosenthal, then the paper's editor, told him about the highly classified documents that he intended to publish.
        ''The more I listened, the more certain I became that the entire operation smelled of 20 years to life,'' Mr. Sulzberger said. ''I quickly called The Times's longtime outside lawyers. Lord, Day & Lord was a well-established firm numbering among its clients the Cunard Line. Whether they were traumatized by the loss of the Titanic I really can't say, but they certainly were cautious. So cautious, indeed, that their senior partner told me that if The Times chose to publish the documents, his firm would refuse to defend us. With all that cheerful advice, I called Abe Rosenthal and told him that if I were going to go to jail for publishing something, I thought it made sense to read it.
        '' 'Do you wish to read it all?' he inquired. 'Yes,' I responded, 'all of it.' From the glee in his voice, I should have smelled a rat.''
        Until then, he continued, he did not know that it was possible to read and sleep at the same time. ''They were long -- very long,'' he added. ''But one thing was undeniable. If I had been in charge of that mess, I'd have tried to keep it secret also.
        ''I have never understood why President Nixon fought so hard to to squelch these papers. I would have thought that he would bemoan their publication, joyfully blame the mess on Lyndon Johnson and move on to Watergate. But then I have never understood Washington.''
        Mr. Sulzberger and his wife had planned to go Europe the day after the Pentagon Papers were published.
        ''By then, I was convinced that one of two things would occur,'' he recalled. ''Either they'd come to take me to jail, or readers of The Times would fall back to bed exhausted by the weight of our coverage. Monday morning came and, as I was still a free man, I assumed our readers to be asleep. So I went to Europe. It was a fine visit, lasting about three hours.
        ''But, ever confident, I told my wife to keep my suitcases and I'd be right back. My clothes had a wonderful holiday.''
        THE MEDIA BUSINESS
      