
        Dr. Richard Gorlin, a cardiologist who developed a method of diagnosing critical blockage of a heart valve without using surgery, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71, and had homes in Manhattan and Bedford Hills, N.Y.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, family members said.
        He was the former head of medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center, which includes the hospital, and at the time of his death was the George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medicine and senior vice president there.
        His pioneering work, while he was chief of cardiology at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston in the 1970's, produced a standard method for examining a kind of heart trouble in which the aortic valve contracts with age.
        His findings have also been used in the design of artificial heart valves, his colleagues said.
        The ''Gorlin Formula'' is still the leading way to assess one set of valve problems and learn whether the valve must be replaced with surgery, said Dr. John W. Rowe, the president of Mount Sinai. ''It's like knowing how your car's valves are doing without opening the engine,'' he said.
        Dr. Gorlin's formula accurately tells the size of a patient's aortic valve by using catheters to measure the pressure on both sides of the valve and the amount of the flow through the valve, said Dr. Gorlin's colleague Dr. Valentin Fuster, director of the Cardiovascular Institute at Mount Sinai and the first holder of the Richard Gorlin, M.D./Heart Research Foundation Professorship in Cardiology.
        Normally the aortic valve is about the size of a quarter, but it narrows with age in about 5 percent to 10 percent of people, causing shortness of breath and chest pain, Dr. Fuster said. Today, such problems can also be assessed externally using ultrasound techniques, he said.
        While in Boston, Dr. Gorlin also developed one of the first laboratories for the study of coronary arteries -- a field known as coronary arteriography -- and trained many leading specialists there and at Mount Sinai, Dr. Fuster said.
        Dr. Gorlin was born in Jersey City. He received his bachelor's degree and M.D. from Harvard, then studied at St. Thomas Hospital in London and  set up a cardiac service at the United States Naval Hospital at Portsmouth, Va. In 1969 he joined the staff of Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and in 1974 he moved to Mount Sinai as chairman of the department of medicine and as Murray M. Rosenberg Professor.
        In 1995, he received the James B. Herrick Award from the American Heart Association's Council on Clinical Cardiology.
        For the last eight years, Dr. Gorlin was medical director of Mount Sinai's expanding system of regional health centers.
        He is survived by his wife, Florence; two sons, Douglas, of Los Angeles, and William, of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; a daughter, Wendy Tayer of San Diego, and two granddaughters.
      