
        Roberto C. Goizueta, a Cuban refugee who became chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company, strengthening its global dominance in soft drinks and building one of the greatest generators of shareholder wealth in corporate history, died early today at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta.
        The cause was complications from treatment for lung cancer, the company said. Mr. Goizueta, a heavy smoker, had a malignant tumor that was discovered in early September.
        Mr. Goizueta, who arrived in the United States in 1960 from Cuba with his wife, $40 and 100 shares of Coca-Cola stock, rose from the company's technical and engineering division to become one of the legends of American business management.
        When Mr. Goizueta took over, Coca-Cola was among the most conservatively managed companies in the United States -- and it was in trouble. Slow-footed and bureaucratic, the company sometimes took months to make big decisions. Coke had no debt but its stock price had been eroding for years, losing half its value in a decade, and its feisty rival Pepsico was chipping away at Coke's domestic dominance.
        He promised to shake things up. With a plan developed by his chief financial officer and future heir apparent, M. Douglas Ivester, Mr. Goizueta and Coke turned around the moribund bottler network by purchasing underperforming bottlers, replacing management, increasing volume and then spinning the bottling companies off to a subsidiary, Coca-Cola Enterprises, a public company in which Coke retained a 49 percent interest.
        Mr. Goizueta is perhaps best known for revising Coke's financial strategy, focusing more attention on shareholder returns. Under his tenure, the total value of Coke stock grew from $4.3 billion in 1981 to more than $152 billion today.
        Yet a footnote to that career is his responsibility for one of the most famous marketing blunders of the 20th century -- the introduction of the ''New Coke.''
        Mr. Goizueta (pronounced goy-SWET-uh), who went on to make substantial bonuses as chief executive, began working for Coca-Cola as a chemical engineer on July 4, 1954, in Havana. He was paid $500 a month.
        In August 1960, a year and a half after Fidel Castro seized power in Cuba, he and his family left for what he said was to be a two-week vacation in Miami. They never returned to Cuba.
        In his first months in this country, Mr. Goizueta, his wife and their three children -- who had been living in the United States for several months -- were forced to share a cramped motel room. Mr. Goizueta rose swiftly through the ranks at Coca-Cola,  eventually becoming executive vice president with control of the laboratory, the legal department and general administration.
        In November 1979, the board picked Mr. Goizueta as one of six new vice chairmen, all potential successors to J. Paul Austin, the chairman and chief executive.
        Mr. Goizueta was considered the least likely candidate for the job. He was almost unknown outside the company and in all of Coke's 93-year history, the top position had been held only by native Georgians. Most significant, though, was the fact that Mr. Goizueta had no marketing experience and little contact with bottlers and customers.
        Yet he was the ultimate company insider. Looking back on the selection process, analysts said that Mr. Goizueta was the only one of the six allowed to have ''the knowledge'' -- the formula for making Coca-Cola, one of the most closely guarded industrial secrets in the world. Only two people knew the formula and the company would not even disclose the identity of the second person.
        With the backing of Coca-Cola's 90-year-old former chairman and paterfamilias, Robert W. Woodruff, Mr. Goizueta was named president on May 30, 1980. He assumed the posts of chairman and chief executive on Mr. Austin's retirement in February 1981.
        At the time Mr. Goizueta promised, ''We're going to take risks. What always has been will not necessarily always be forever.''
        He added, ''Nothing energizes an organization like speed.''
        In a 1995 interview, Mr. Goizueta conceded that he was a demanding person, saying, ''I really don't like to lose.'' He saw the need for ''an enemy'' in business, saying, ''If you don't have an enemy, the best thing is you create one. That's the only way you can have a war.''
        Coca-Cola had always dominated Pepsi in international sales but under Mr. Goizueta, the company became even more aggressive. In a 1996 raid, Coke bought Pepsi's Venezuelan bottler and put the company out of business overnight in the only Latin American market where Pepsi held a market-share lead over Coca-Cola.
        In January 1982, Coke bought Columbia Pictures for $750 million as part of a diversification effort by Mr. Goizueta to quickly raise Coke's domestic earnings and revenue. He then sold it to the Sony Corporation for $3 billion in the late 1980's.
        In one of his boldest moves, Mr. Goizueta decided to allow the sacrosanct Coca-Cola brand name to be used for the first time on a product other than the company's flagship. Diet Coke was introduced in August 1982, and by the end of 1983 it had become the nation's largest-selling sugar-free beverage and the fourth-largest-selling soft drink, trailing only Coke, Pepsi and 7-Up.
        In Japan, a country constantly thirsty for new flavors, launch time for new drinks was cut from 90 days to a month. Coke releases as many as 50 new beverages a year in Japan, compared with the handful of beverages released each year in the United States.
        Mr. Goizueta was a man fiercely devoted to his company, and Wall Street analysts who said anything less than flattering about it could count on hearing from him.
        ''There's no doubt about the fact that he terrorized some analysts into always saying nice things and recommending the stock,'' said Roy Burry, senior vice president at Oppenheimer & Company, who was a recurring target. ''He did actually cut off certain institutions from talking to the company, over something they said or didn't say.''
        But he helped produce tremendous returns for investors. Shareholders who invested $1,000 in Coke stock when Mr. Goizueta took over would have $65,000 of stock today, assuming reinvestment of dividends. However, corporate governance critics were stunned by Mr. Goizueta's 1991 bonus of nearly $83 million in stock. (A bonus of a half-million shares the year before went almost unnoticed.)
        At the company's annual meeting in Atlanta in 1992, Mr. Goizueta defended the bonus, noting the company's vast increase in wealth and reminding shareholders that the bonus could have been even larger under his deal with the company.
        Rather than expressing outrage, shareholders were wildly enthusiastic. The ''Coca-Cola widows,'' a cadre of Georgia women whose working-class husbands had bought a few shares of Coca-Cola and held them to become millionaires, cheered the chairman.
        ''I never sold a single share,'' one elderly woman said in 1992, ''and I just wanted to tell you Coca-Cola has put my 6 children and 17 grandchildren through college.''
        Even so, Mr. Goizueta was not immune to mistakes.
        ''You can't stumble if you're not moving,'' he once said. ''And if you stumble and make a decision that doesn't pan out, then you move quickly to change it. But it's better than standing still.''
        In 1985, Coke's domestic market share suffered not only at the hands of Pepsi but from a plethora of less expensive, private-label colas. The company quickly replaced its 99-year-old formula on April 23, 1985, with a sweeter, smoother version. It became the greatest marketing blunder since the Edsel. Millions of Coke fans were outraged. Corporate headquarters in Atlanta was besieged with letters, telegrams and phone calls. A grass-roots fan club was born, dedicated to bringing back ''old'' Coke.
        On July 11, humiliated Coke executives brought back the old formula as ''Classic Coke.'' New Coke was renamed Coke II and faded into corporate history. Although the new formula is still sold in some markets, it accounts for less than one-tenth of 1 percent of all soft-drink sales.
        Conspiracy theorists speculated that it was a calculated stunt to draw attention to Coke, to which Mr. Goizueta responded, ''We are not that smart and we're not that dumb.''
        Ten years later, in a ''celebration'' of its gaffe, Mr. Goizueta said, ''Obviously this was a blunder and a disaster and it will forever be.'' Still, he noted, the company had increased its volume of cola sales by 29 percent  since the creation of New Coke.
        Roberto Crispulo Goizueta was born in Havana on Nov. 18, 1931, the only son of an architect and a sugar heiress. He attended a Jesuit secondary school in Havana and spent a year at a New Haven prep school, the Cheshire Academy.
        Mr. Goizueta entered Yale University in 1948 and graduated in 1953 with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering. In June of that year he married Olga Casteleiro. He returned to Havana, where his father expected him to enter the family architectural and construction business, but Mr. Goizueta answered an ad placed by an unidentified company seeking a bilingual chemical engineer -- and began his career with Coca-Cola.
        Along with his corporate accomplishments, Mr. Goizueta is credited with reviving the power of certain Atlanta institutions, including Emory University, whose endowments included large holdings of Coca-Cola stock.
        Mr. Goizueta was on the board of Suntrust Banks, the Ford Motor Company, Sonat and Eastman Kodak. In 1994, Emory University, long a recipient of Coca-Cola executives' largess, renamed its business school in Mr. Goizueta's honor.
        He is survived by his wife, his children, Roberto S., of Chicago, Olga Rawls of Atlanta, Javier of Sao Paulo, Brazil, and eight grandchildren.
        Coca-Cola's offices are to be closed worldwide on Tuesday, when a funeral service is planned. The company board could meet as early as this week to name a new chief executive, widely expected to be Mr. Ivester, 50, the president and chief operating officer.
        Mr. Goizueta once said that despite the company's spectacular success, he was perpetually restless in the midst of the ''cola wars.''
        ''People ask me if I sleep well at night with all of the competition,'' he said. ''I tell them I sleep like a baby -- I wake up every two hours and cry.''
      