
        On Wednesday, Harvey Philip Dale, a respected but not famous New York law professor, had lunch with two friends in midtown. It was the day before everyone learned that he has had a secret life that involved giving away hundreds of millions of dollars of someone else's money.
        After one of the friends left the table, Mr. Dale told the other that in the morning, news reports would disclose that he has been the president since 1982 of an international philanthropy set up to quietly give away most of the wealth of his friend, Charles F. Feeney. Unknown to almost everyone who knew him, Mr. Dale has been playing in real life the role of the loyal aide who used to show up at needy people's doors to fulfill wealthy John Beresford Tipton's charitable intentions in the old television show ''The Millionaire.''
        Mr. Dale was not sure he would enjoy the attention that would come to him as the chief executive of one of the largest private philanthropies in the world, said Peter Swords, the friend who stayed at the table and heard about the philanthropy's decision to go public.
        ''He said, in his mind, it was the right thing to do. But in his heart he would miss being a private person,'' said Mr. Swords, who is executive director of the Nonprofit Coordinating Committee of New York.
        People who know Mr. Dale said yesterday that they understood his ambivalence about the newly public nature of his position. Several people involved in Mr. Feeney's multibillion-dollar philanthropy said yesterday that Mr. Dale has been so involved in it from the start that the two men work almost as partners, even though the wealth came from Mr. Feeney's business.
        But they said that Mr. Dale's role as the legal tactician who has implemented Mr. Feeney's vision meant he had been especially comfortable out of the limelight. Mr. Dale declined to be interviewed.
        ''Harvey is tremendously committed to living an ideal and the ideal is craftsmanly excellence,'' said Joel L. Fleishman, president of Mr. Feeney's Atlantic Philanthropic Service Company, which provides staff and consulting services to Mr. Feeney's charitable foundations.
        At New York University Law School and among lawyers who specialize in tax law and laws dealing with nonprofit institutions, yesterday's announcement was something of a shock. Mr. Dale, who turns 60 this month, is a polished man who can be passionate about intricate legal points. He is known as an influential lawyer on international tax questions and in recent years he has developed an expertise in legal concerns of philanthropic institutions.
        There had long been a mystery about who Mr. Dale's private law clients were and at the law school, there had been speculation for years about where the money came from for the well-financed National Center on Philanthropy and the Law that Mr. Dale runs at N.Y.U.
        At the law school, some faculty members had said they were uneasy that no one knew who Mr. Dale's anonymous donor was. Some people also noted that because Mr. Feeney's philanthropy is set up in Bermuda, no one may ever learn about Mr. Dale's compensation or other financial arrangements.
        Others at the law school said yesterday that Mr. Dale seemed, for a professor, unusually at home in the world of high finance. ''If you met him and were told he's the C.E.O. of a major American corporation, you'd believe it,'' said Stephen Gillers, who is also an N.Y.U. law professor.
        But none of a dozen people interviewed who know Mr. Dale yesterday said they ever suspected Mr. Dale could be quietly running a philanthropy that had billions to give away. Some said they were surprised that someone with such power could live so quietly.
        Mr. Dale is divorced with two grown children, and lives in wooded Bedford, N.Y. Friends say his private passions are tennis, Mozart, and playing the piano and the flute.
        Mr. Dale first met Mr. Feeney when he represented his business more than 30 years ago. Several people said yesterday that Mr. Dale rarely mentioned his biggest client. In retrospect, they said, he seemed to take his obligation to protect Mr. Feeney's privacy so zealously that he may have all along felt he was protecting his own privacy.
        Yesterday, Harvey J. Goldschmid, a law professor at Columbia University who has known and worked with Mr. Dale for years, received an early-morning fax from Mr. Dale. Mr. Goldschmid was the third person at the lunch who left before Mr. Dale delivered his big news. Mr. Dale's fax included the philanthropy's press release describing the active part he has played in giving away Mr. Feeney's millions.
        ''Now you can see why I've been so secretive about what I do with a lot of my time,'' said a note to Mr. Goldschmid.
        Mr. Goldschmid has served as a member of Mr. Dale's board at the National Center on Philanthropy and the Law. He said that neither during board meetings nor during social gatherings or professional meetings had he ever had the slightest hint of the vast wealth Mr. Dale was charged with giving away.
        There wasn't any hint before he left the lunch table either. ''Obviously,'' Mr. Goldschmid said, ''he is able to keep a secret.''
      