
        Roy A. Rappaport, an innkeeper turned scholar, anthropologist and director of the program of religion studies at the University of Michigan, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Ann Arbor. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said the university, where he also was a professor of anthropology.
        Dr. Rappaport devoted most of his work to the study of religion, in particular its relation to society and ecology.
        He wrote four books and scores of articles, reviews and book chapters. His first book, ''Pigs for the Ancestors: Ritual in the Ecology of a New Guinea People'' (Yale University Press, 1968), was based on his ethnographic field work with the Maring people of Papua New Guinea.
        ''Ecology, Meaning and Religion'' (North Atlantic Books, 1988) is also in print, and during his illness he completed ''Holiness and Humanity.'' Reflecting three decades of research and thought, it is scheduled to be published by Cambridge University Press. In a foreword, Keith Hart, a British anthropologist, described the work as ''a milestone in the anthropology of religion.''
        Roy Abraham Rappaport was born in Brooklyn, served as a combat infantryman in World War II and graduated in hotel administration from Cornell University in 1949. Until 1959 he owned and operated Avaloch, a country inn in Lenox, Mass.
        But he chose academia, receiving a Ph.D. in anthropology from Columbia University in 1966, the year after he joined the faculty in Ann Arbor.
        He served on a working group of the National Academy of Sciences that counseled the Government on oil leasing on the outer continental shelf. He also advised the State of Nevada for many years regarding the proposed storage of nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain.
        He was a member of the American Academy of Art and Sciences and past president of the American Anthropological Society.
        Dr. Rappaport is survived by his wife of 38 years, Ann Hart Rappaport; two daughters, Amelia, of Woodstock, Vt., and Gina, of Ann Arbor, and a sister, Nancy Kaufman of Lenox.
      