
        William S. Ogden, a banker credited with helping save the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company from insolvency after its collapse in 1984, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Stamford, Conn.
        He died of a heart attack, his son, William S. Ogden Jr., said.
        Mr. Ogden had been taking a motorcycle lesson in nearby Stratford, Conn., his son said, and was stricken just after he stepped off the cycle and began unstrapping his helmet. He was pronounced dead at Bridgeport Hospital.
        Mr. Ogden, a native of Hackensack, N.J., was a graduate of Rutgers University. He served in the Marine Corps in World War II, then began his banking career at Chase Manhattan Bank's predecessor, rising through executive jobs.
        In 1977, he was chief financial officer. In that position he represented Chase in the bank's negotiations with New York City officials in efforts to forestall default on the city's loans.
        Three years later, in 1980, he was appointed vice chairman and a director of the bank and its holding company, Chase Manhattan Corporation.
        Mr. Ogden retired from Chase in 1984. That summer, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation appointed him and John E. Swearingen, former chairman of Standard Oil of Indiana, as co-heads of Continental Illinois Corporation, effectively taking over Continental rather than selling it to another bank, as usual.
        Mr. Ogden and Mr. Swearingen cut costs and recruited directors. They also put together a strategic plan that called for renewed emphasis on Midwest customers and emphasis on retail banking. In six months, the bank was out of the woods.
        In 1992, Mr. Ogden founded a small investment firm, Inter-Atlantic Capital Partners, and was its chairman at the time of his death. He worked part time and was an avid sailor.
        Mr. Ogden was a founder of the Institute of International Finance in Washington, serving as chairman from 1984 to 1986. He was a director of both the Council of the Americas and the Americas Society.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Riverside, Conn., Mr. Ogden is survived by his wife, Marian, and a daughter, Dana Ogden Welles of Greenwich, Conn.
      