
        Judge Harold J. Rothwax, who began his legal career as a combative defense lawyer and civil rights advocate in New York but who later gained wide attention in a campaign to limit the rights of defendants, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was complications from a stroke that he suffered on Sept. 6, said Nicholas Scoppetta, the Commissioner of the city's Administration for Children's Services and a friend of Judge Rothwax.
        In 26 years on the bench, mainly as an acting State Supreme Court justice, Judge Rothwax presided over thousands of gruesome criminal cases in Manhattan, and his brusque courtroom style brought him plaudits and condemnation.
        Admirers described him as a scholarly, fair-minded jurist who was intolerant of unethical or delaying tactics by defense or prosecution lawyers. His detractors, however, maintained that he was an inflammatory judge who favored the prosecution, and they bristled at the harsh sentences he meted out to defendants who refused his offers of plea bargains.
        Judge Rothwax's conservative views on revising America's criminal justice system were placed in a national spotlight last year with the publication of his book, ''Guilty: The Collapse of Criminal Justice.''
        He said in the book that procedural rulings by the Supreme Court and by state appeals courts in the last 30 years on the questioning of suspects and the seizure of evidence were too complex for the police to understand and allowed murderers and other violent criminals to go unpunished.
        Taking a hard line against criminal suspects, Judge Rothwax -- in his book, in interviews and in lectures at law schools -- urged a drastic overhaul of the nation's criminal trial rules. He proposed that the Miranda warning against self-incrimination should be abolished, that 10-to-2 jury verdicts instead of unanimous decisions should be permitted and that the police and prosecutors should be given more leeway to seize evidence and to use it against defendants at trials.
        Critics, including law school professors and civil rights advocates, said that Judge Rothwax maligned the Supreme Court and exaggerated the constitutional rights afforded defendants. Because of his exacting courtroom demeanor, some lawyers and prosecutors referred to him as the Prince of Darkness and as Yahweh, the Hebrew name for God.
        Replying to his critics, Judge Rothwax contended that the technical rules imposed by the appeals courts had undermined the search for truth in courtrooms. ''Without truth,'' he wrote, ''how can our society properly maintain the ideals, values and principles upon which it was founded?''
        Harold J. Rothwax was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 28, 1930. He graduated from the City College of New York in 1952 and was discharged from the Army as a first lieutenant in 1955. In 1958, he graduated from the Columbia University School of Law.
        His introduction to the city's turbulent criminal courts came when he was a trial lawyer for the Legal Aid Society, which represents indigent defendants, and he quickly became known for his aggressive style.
        In one of his first days on the job in 1959, another Legal Aid lawyer showed up late to assist him in arguing pretrial motions. Mr. Rothwax, a slightly built man, greeted his tardy co-counsel with a barrage of epithets. The other lawyer, a husky man who towered over Mr. Rothwax, dismissively scattered the case file that Mr. Rothwax had meticulously arranged on his desk.
        Mr. Rothwax replied with a fist to the face of his startled colleague.
        After six years with Legal Aid, Mr. Rothwax in 1965 was named the director of legal services at Mobilization for Youth, an antipoverty program on the Lower East Side. That same year he was appointed a vice chairman of the New York Civil Liberties Union, and his clients included a Black Panther, the Hispanic radical group Young Lords, and Abbie Hoffman.
        In his berths at the two organizations, he was a central figure for six years in many liberal and radical causes, including the defense of protestors arrested at civil rights rallies or at demonstrations against America's involvement in the Vietnam War; the representation of welfare recipients whose benefits were cut, and the backing of legislation to decriminalize the use of marijuana.
        Referring in 1996 to a string of Supreme Court rulings in the 1960's that expanded the rights of defendants -- many of which he later said he ardently believed should be undone -- Judge Rothwax said, ''I was a big fan of those decisions.''
        In 1971, Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him to a judgeship in the Criminal Courts, which primarily handle misdemeanor cases. A year later, he was named an acting justice in the State Supreme Court where all felony cases are heard.
        In his book and in interviews, Judge Rothwax said his experiences on the bench at the Criminal Court Building in lower Manhattan gradually altered his views from the presumption of innocence of all defendants to a presumption of guilt.
        ''From the time of the defendant's arrest,'' he said in an interview, ''to the time of the defendant's trial, there are five, six, seven different screenings. So by the time that defendant goes to trial, he has been found to be probably guilty.''
        He demonstrated his intolerance of courtroom delays with tough penalties. In 1971, he briefly jailed a court stenographer who declined to work, claiming illness. And in 1979, he sentenced a lawyer to 10 days in jail for delaying the opening of a trial.
        Judge Rothwax would not allow a severe personal injury to interfere with a trial. In December 1988, the judge, who bicycled to the courthouse from his West Side apartment, was struck by a car and suffered two broken wrists. After emergency treatment at Bellevue Hospital, he showed up with his arms in plaster casts to preside at the trial of Joel Steinberg, who was later convicted on manslaughter charges in the death of his illegally adopted 6-year-old daughter, Lisa.
        ''He was an extraordinary lawyer and judge whose presence literally dominated every court proceeding he participated in,'' said Mr. Scoppetta, a former prosecutor and defense lawyer.
        Judge Rothwax is survived by his wife, the former Yona Guttman, a school psychologist in East Harlem; a son, Louis, and a daughter, Julia.
        Earlier this year, the judge initiated two lawsuits: he sought $250,000 from the city and a building contractor for injuries he said he suffered in a fall at a construction site on West End Avenue, and he sued Don Imus for libel because of unflattering comments that the talk show host made after his wife appeared in Judge Rothwax's courtroom for jury duty.
        Asked in an interview last year why he remained in a judicial system which he severely criticized, Judge Rothwax said: ''I get angry, I get testy, but every morning I look forward to going to work. I have the best job in the world: I have the life of the court.''
      