
        Bishop Walter W. Curtis, the former head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Manor, a nursing home in Trumbull, Conn. He was 84.
        The cause was pneumonia, said the Rev. Michael K. Jones, the vice chancellor of the diocese and the secretary to Bishop Curtis's successor, Bishop Edward M. Egan.
        Bishop Curtis was the second bishop of the diocese, which covers Fairfield County and had 286,000 Roman Catholics when he was installed in 1961. In his 27-year tenure, the diocese grew to include more than 300,000 Catholics, and he started a high school building program and established a string of homes for the elderly.
        He also decided to keep St. Augustine Cathedral in downtown Bridgeport in the 1970's, when church officials considered moving the spiritual and administrative center of the diocese to a less urban site. Instead, he oversaw the renovation of the cathedral and, in 1979, its rededication.
        Born on May 3, 1913, in Jersey City, Bishop Curtis graduated from Seton Hall University in 1934. He was trained at Immaculate Conception Seminary in Darlington, N.J., and the North American College in Rome, and was ordained there and assigned to the Archdiocese of Newark in 1938. He did graduate work at Gregorian University in Rome before being appointed a professor of moral theology at Immaculate Conception. He was awarded a doctorate from Catholic University in Washington in 1978.
        In 1951, he was named to the editorial board of the archdiocesan newspaper, The Advocate. Bishop Curtis was named auxiliary bishop to Archbishop Thomas A. Boland of Newark in June 1957. In 1958, he was named pastor of Sacred Heart parish in Bloomfield, N.J.
        Pope John XXIII appointed him to the post in Bridgeport Sept. 23, 1961. He was installed in November of that year.
        In the 1960's, he founded Sacred Heart University as a commuter college. It is now the third largest Catholic university in New England. He also started two nursing homes, the Pope John Paul II Health Care Center in Danbury and the St. Camillus Health Care Center in Stamford.
        In addition, he founded the Fairfield Foundation, a nondenominational group that helps people in need in Fairfield County.
        Bishop Curtis stepped down in 1988, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 75.
        He is survived by a sister, Edna Feehan of Bridgewater, N.J., and by six nieces and nephews.
      