
        Stanley Williams, an internationally renowned teacher of male ballet dancers, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72.
        Mr. Williams died of apparent natural causes, the medical examiner's office said, and was found by his maid.
        Mr. Williams, a senior faculty member at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet, taught advanced male and female students at the school and instructed City Ballet dancers once a week. But he was best known for his molding of male dancers, in training that stressed ''the essence of technique,'' as Michael Byars, a former City Ballet dancer, put it.
        Mr. Williams trained several generations of City Ballet men, including the current principal dancers Jock Soto, Peter Boal and Albert Evans. His students also included Edward Villella and Fernando Bujones, and his classes attracted other leading male dancers from around the world, among them Mikhail Baryshnikov and Rudolf Nureyev, who described Mr. Williams as ''a true genius.''
        Such stars would appear quietly at the barre, at times erupting into spontaneous competition but usually unacknowledged by Mr. Williams, a meditative teacher who taught in a nearly inaudible murmur.
        One of his best-known students was Peter Martins, who began his studies with Mr. Williams at 12 in Copenhagen, during the teacher's  years with the Royal Danish Ballet. Mr. Martins, later a leading dancer with the Danish company and the City Ballet and now the head of the New York company and school, described Mr. Williams simply as ''my teacher,'' ''the one who determined my style, who gave me the clue to the art and to my way of performing.'' Mr. Williams, Mr. Martins wrote in his autobiography ''Far From Denmark,'' taught ''dance with responsibility to the steps,'' with an emphasis on ''correctness and quality, not on extravagant virtuosity.''
        Born in Chappel, England, Mr. Williams grew up in Copenhagen and entered the Royal Danish school at 9, joining the company in 1943. When an injury forced him to retire from the company in 1950, Mr. Williams became a faculty member at the school, teaching there until 1963. He met George Balanchine in 1956 and began to teach at the School of American Ballet in 1960, joining the faculty in 1964. In 1985 he was named co-chairman of the faculty with Mr. Martins.
        Mr. Williams was knighted by the King of Denmark in 1961 and received the Dance Magazine Award in 1981. He staged ''Bournonville Divertissements'' for City Ballet in 1981.
        He is survived by his sister, Marion Hoyrup of Copenhagen.
      