
        Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, who sought to improve medical care in poor countries as dean of the University of Virginia School of Medicine and later was the university's chancellor and vice president for medical affairs, died on Thursday at his home in Cismont, Va. He was 84.
        Dr. Hunter, who was the Owen R. Cheatham Professor until his retirement in 1981, created a program in biomedical ethics and medical humanities at the university. He inspired many doctors to serve overseas, helping lift standards of medicine in places like Uganda and Brazil, said Dr. Ian Stephenson, a professor of psychiatry at Virginia.
        Dr. Hunter's interest in international medicine began in 1943 when he carried out field work in Guatemala and Costa Rica after studying at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington.
        Two decades later, Dr. Hunter, who walked with crutches as a result of contracting polio at age 7, was still working abroad, in Colombia. He worked for a year in Cali, on a Rockefeller Foundation grant, developing a medical school and attacking deficiencies in pre-med education. During his career, he worked and taught throughout the developing world.
        At Virginia, Dr. Hunter brought a largely regional school into national prominence, Dr. Stephenson said. Dr. Hunter developed university programs in international medicine with an emphasis on poorer nations. In the 1950's he was a pioneer in linking American medical schools and their counterparts in the developing world, said Dr. Robert M. Carey, dean of the medical school.
        Dr. Hunter was born in Chicago, received a bachelor's degree in psychology from Harvard University in 1935, studied medicine at Cambridge University in England and received his M.D. at Harvard in 1940.
        He trained in internal medicine at Presbyterian Hospital in New York, where he discovered new uses for a combination of penicillin and streptomycin to treat inflammation of the lining of the heart.
        He was associate dean of the medical school at Washington University in St. Louis before becoming dean at Virginia in 1953.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Dr. Anne Fulcher Hunter; a daughter, Elizabeth Tabony, of Gladstone, Va.; four sons, Charles, of Baton Rouge, La., William, of San Diego, Thomas, of Loveland, Colo., and Peter, of Batesville, Va., and 12 grandchildren.
      