
        Rankin M. Smith Sr., the owner and chairman of the board of the Atlanta Falcons, died at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta yesterday afternoon, just hours before the team kicked off the eighth game of a lackluster season. He was 72.
        A hospital spokeswoman, Deborah Wexler, described the cause of death yesterday as complications resulting from heart failure.
        Mr. Smith paid $8.5 million for the expansion Atlanta Falcons in 1965. A 1989 report in The Atlanta Journal and Constitution valued the team at $100 million.
        Associated Press The team has had a less than stellar record. Under Mr. Smith's ownership, the team won one division title, in 1980, and made it to the playoffs five times. Before last night's game against the Carolina Panthers in Charlotte, N.C., the Falcons were 1-6 this season under the new coach, Dan Reeves.
        Mr. Smith, an Atlanta native, attended North Fulton High School, spent a year at Emory University and then attended the University of Georgia. He was an executive with his family's insurance company, Life of Georgia, and became its president and chairman of its board of directors until 1977, when he retired.
        After hinting that he might take the Falcons to Jacksonville, Fla., Mr. Smith lobbied for the development of the 72,000-seat Georgia Dome, which opened in 1992. The Dome was host to the 1994 Super Bowl and is scheduled to be the site of the 2000 game.
        Mr. Smith lived in northwest Atlanta with his wife, Charlotte Lilliard Topping. The couple also maintained a plantation, called Seminole, in Thomasville. His philanthropic contributions include his support of the Fernbank Museum of Natural History, a youth foundation and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra.
        Mr. Smith's son, Taylor, is the club president. Mr. Smith is also survived by four other children, Rankin M. Smith Jr., Carroll Smith Walraven, Dorothy Smith Knox and Karen Smith Owen, who all serve on the team's board of directors.
        Funeral arrangements are to be announced today, according to The Associated Press.
      