
        Alexander Taffel, who spent two decades in a joyful scramble to stay a step ahead of some of the nation's brightest and most cocksure high school students, died on Jan. 19 at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 86 and retired in 1978 as the principal of the Bronx High School of Science.
        The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Mildred.
        When Dr. Taffel was named Bronx Science's second principal in 1958, there were those who felt a bit sorry for him. He was, after all, replacing Morris Meister, the legendary educator who had originated the concept of a specialized, highly selective public high school and had steered Bronx Science on its acclaimed course as a springboard to Nobel Prizes.
        True, in a public school career that began in 1931, Dr. Taffel had distinguished himself, becoming principal of Haaren High School in Manhattan. Still, there was something daunting about a student body of such shudderingly advanced technical achievement that an errant adolescent prank in the chemistry lab might blow up half the neighborhood.
        But then Dr. Taffel was a physics teacher who had become the chairman of the science department at James Monroe High School in the Bronx before becoming a full-time administrator.
        And, during a summer session at the University of Michigan in 1938 he had also studied nuclear energy with the physicist Enrico Fermi, an experience that had provided Dr. Taffel with a healthy respect for the explosive eccentricities of genius, especially after watching Fermi conclude a frustrating tennis game by smashing his racket over his own head.
        As for his vaunted students, who had gained admission through a competitive exam that screened out three of every four applicants, Dr. Taffel knew that they were, on the average, two years ahead of their citywide grade level as well as a year younger and that much less mature.
        Another principal might have been intimidated, but Dr. Taffel could always console himself with the knowledge that by his standards, his students were just a bit slow. When he was 18, after all, he was a college graduate.
        Dr. Taffel, a native of Odessa, Russia, who was brought to New York when he was 3, graduated from City College with a degree in mathematics in 1929 and later received a master's in physics from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in science education from New York University.
        As a young substitute physics teacher, he fell in love with the prettiest girl in the class but decorously waited until after she graduated before asking her out.
        ''All the other girls were after him, but I got him,'' Mrs. Taffel said yesterday, noting that their marriage had lasted 58 years.
        In his years as principal, Dr. Taffel repeatedly proved himself equal to his task, among other things recruiting a crack teaching staff, continuing and expanding the school's tradition of excellence and even helping four countries, Israel, Turkey, the Philippines and the Soviet Union, adopt the Bronx Science model.
        Dr. Taffel, who also turned out four physics text books, generally managed to stay out in front of his students, an especially difficult task in the 1960's, an era when even some Bronx Science students felt compelled on occasion to take over the principal's office, prompting the savvy principal to form a parent-staff-student council that considered student demands, adopted some of them and generally defused the situation.
        An elegant dresser who could only wince when he saw students in full  hippie regalia, Dr. Taffel made his views on correct dress so well known that he was once portrayed in a student production by a starchly dressed student in coat and tie who arose from his desk and walked across the stage in his underpants.
        An ebullient man so gregarious that his wife made a point to feed him at home before he attended a formal dinner (she knew he would spend the evening table hopping), Dr. Taffel worked hard to galvanize Bronx Science parents and alumni.
        His efforts paid off when the school's very existence was threatened by criticism that it was too elitist. Dr. Taffel, who had developed a program to identify and recruit talented minority students, sought help from a former Bronx High science valedictorian who ended up in the New York State Legislature.
        The result was legislation requiring the city to maintain its four competitive high schools without lowering their admissions standards.
        The legislator, Harrison J. Goldin, who later became New York City's Controller and who is now a business consultant, recalled yesterday that he had been rewarded by being invited to give a graduation address.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Taffel is survived by a sister, Bess Boyle of Los Angeles, and a brother, Dr. Max Taffel of Woodbridge, Conn.
      