
        Helio Beltrao, who served in the cabinets of three governments during Brazil's 21-year military dictatorship, died on Sunday morning here. He was 81 years old.
        The Brazilian press reported the cause of death as respiratory insufficiency due to a brain tumor.
        After a long career in Petrobras, the state-owned oil company, Mr. Beltrao began his public life under the military dictatorship that ended in 1985. He was one of the signers of a December 1968 decree that shut down the Brazilian Congress and abrogated civil rights.
        Mr. Beltrao served as Minister of Planning from 1967 to 1969, during the government of Gen. Costa e Silva, and as Social Security Minister from 1982 to 1983. But it was as special minister in charge of ''debureaucratization,'' under the Government of Joao Baptista Figueiredo, that Mr. Beltrao attracted attention and popularity. A reporter visiting Mr. Beltrao at the time found letters on his desk addressed to ''Mr. Champion Minister.''
        He started his crusade against red tape in a country sorely in need of paperwork relief. In interviews while he held the job, he expressed the levels of absurdity the blizzard of documents, signatures and attestations had reached, using the anecdote of an elderly woman who waits for hours in line to apply for Social Security benefits. When she reaches the head of the line, she is turned away, having forgotten the essential ''atestado de vida,'' a document confirming she is alive.
        In another case, a retired military lawyer who wanted to register at the local bar association needed proof of a clean criminal record from every place he lived since the age of 18. But each certificate was valid for only three months. By the time he managed to obtain the last clearance, the first ones had expired.
        ''Brazilians are very informal and they trust everybody,'' Mr. Beltrao told The New York Times in a 1979 interview. ''But this culture inherited the laws, decrees and regulations of Portugal, which had copied the centralization and the formalism of France.''
        In 1981, Mr. Beltrao told the newspaper O Globo that he had faith in his country, though he did not consider himself an optimist. ''Optimism is for those who don't know the facts,'' he said. ''I have faith because I do know them.'' Mr. Beltrao is survived by his wife, the archaeologist Maria da Conceicao and three chldren, Helio, 30, Christiana, 28 and Maria, 26, as well as a grandchild, Marcos.
      