
        Peter Savino, a longtime Mafia associate who became a major Government witness against his former confederates, including such top mobsters as the recently convicted Vincent Gigante, died on Sept. 30, Federal prosecutors said in a court document filed this week.
        Mr. Savino was 55, and was living at an undisclosed location under the Federal witness security program.
        The document, filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn after it was submitted by the United States Attorney's office in Brooklyn, gave no information about the place or cause of death. A spokeswoman for the United States Marshals Service, which runs the security program, said yesterday that Federal policy prohibited her from disclosing information about anyone in the program.
        But when he testified in July at the trial of Mr. Gigante, who was convicted of murder-conspiracy and racketeering charges, Mr. Savino was reported to be gravely ill with cancer -- so ill that the judge, Jack B. Weinstein, ruled that Mr. Savino did not have to testify at the Federal courthouse in Brooklyn, where the trial was held, but could testify through closed-circuit television from an undisclosed location in another state.
        In some of the most dramatic moments of the monthlong trial, participants and spectators in the downtown Brooklyn courtroom watched the gaunt, often profusely sweating figure as he appeared on television screens in the courtroom.
        ''I need to stop a minute now, guys,'' he said at one point, leading to one of several recesses he requested. ''I got to take a break, please,'' he said at another point, and a prosecutor who was with him said, ''The witness is in a lot of pain.''
        But Mr. Savino's voice was loud and clear as, for a day and a half, he told of dealings with Mr. Gigante that he said went back to at least 1980 and lasted until 1987. That is when Mr. Savino agreed to become an informer for the Government, after Federal agents confronted him with evidence that he had participated in several murders and offered him leniency in return for cooperating.
        Mr. Savino admitted taking part in six killings and pleaded guilty to murder and other charges. He faced a possible sentence of 20 years in prison, though imposition of a sentence was still pending at his death.
        One of the charges on which Mr. Gigante was convicted was conspiring to kill Mr. Savino after he agreed to help the Government.
        Mr. Savino's most important testimony, in the Gigante trial and in earlier trials, had to do with a lucrative, decadelong racket: Prosecutors said Mr. Gigante and the bosses of other Mafia groups led a scheme in which the mob skimmed millions of dollars in Government funds from window-installation contracts in New York City public housing. Mr. Savino was a central figure in the bid-rigging scheme, in which, he testified, he represented Mr. Gigante's Genovese crime family.
        Mr. Savino was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 6, 1942, and began working in the 1960's with members of Local 580 of the Architectural and Ornamental Ironworkers Union on construction and renovation jobs. Some of the local's officers would later be involved in the public housing windows scheme. Mr. Savino and associates began operating their own window-installation businesses in the 1970's, when, he testified, he also began an on-and-off career as a mob informer for the F.B.I. and the police.
        But despite his long service to the Genovese crime family, Mr. Savino never became a full member -- or ''made member'' in Mafia jargon. Instead, he remained an ''associate.''
        It could not be learned yesterday whether Mr. Savino left any survivors. A spokeswoman for the marshals service said that providing such information could endanger them.
      