
        John Durniak, a former picture editor of The New York Times and of Time magazine, died yesterday at his home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 68.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said.
        As picture editor of The Times from 1981 to 1984, Mr. Durniak oversaw the photographers, editors and darkroom technicians who produced photos of events like Ronald Reagan's first inauguration, the release of American hostages in Teheran after 444 days, the war in the Falkland Islands in 1982 and the American invasion of Grenada in 1983.
        By then, cameras were small and pictures could be transmitted from virtually anywhere, in contrast to the way photography worked at the beginning of his career. From 1952 to 1968, he worked at Popular Photography magazine, starting as an associate editor and rising to editor in chief in from 1966 to 1968.
        His years at Popular Photography coincided with profound changes in professional photography. Bulky Speed Graphics were replaced by 35-millimeter cameras that did not have to be reloaded after each shot. They had better lenses and shutters that made possible unposed shots in relatively dim light.
        ''John Durniak was one of the first to realize the potential of the 35-millimeter camera,'' said Carl Mydans, one of the first photographers hired by Life, who later worked for Time, ''and he affected most of us who were photojournalists in how we looked upon reporting with a camera. We were storytellers with a camera, and that was his continual direction to us: 'Don't forget what you are. You are reporters, telling stories in pictures.' ''
        Mr. Durniak graduated from Bowling Green State University and received a master's degree from the University of Iowa. He went to work for Life in 1951 as a photographer's assistant, but left after a year and became the sports editor of The Bronxville Reporter of Westchester County and a television scriptwriter for United Press.
        He spent eight years as picture editor of Time, where he sometimes managed to bridge the gap between writers and photographers. For the Democratic National Convention in 1972, he not only sent a cadre of staff and freelance photographers to Miami, but he also issued pocket cameras to 16 correspondents and editors from the Nation section.
        After he left Time, Mr. Durniak was involved in reviving Look magazine in the late 70's as managing editor under the French publisher Daniel Filipacchi.
        After his stint as picture editor at The Times, Mr. Durniak wrote a column for the paper in 1985 and 1986 that combined advice for amateur photographers with descriptions of developments in cameras and film.
        He was a consulting editor to Reader's Digest and a consultant on photography books, including the ''Day in the Life'' series from Collins Publishers. One of his last projects was a page on the World Wide Web for and about photographers.
        He won the highest award from the National Press Photographers Association in 1972. The group gave him an award this year that recognized his career achievements.
        He is survived by his wife, Rita; a son, Todd, of San Antonio; a daughter, Holly Castle of Suffern; a brother, Stephen, of Wyomissing, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      