
        Harold Friedman, a baker who rose to vice president of the teamsters' union and was convicted of labor racketeering, died on Wednesday at Meridia Hillcrest Hospital in Cleveland. He was 74 and lived in Pepper Pike, a suburb of Cleveland.
        The cause of death was heart disease, said his wife, Barbara Walden.
        Mr. Friedman was born in Cleveland and studied labor law and history at what are now Cleveland State and Case Western Reserve Universities, according to published reports in The Cleveland Plain Dealer and elsewhere. He learned baking at a cake-decorating school and became an officer of Bakery and Confectionary Workers Local 19 in Cleveland, which was founded by his father, Harvey Friedman.
        During the 1960's, Harold Friedman became the local's ranking officer and then aided Jackie Presser in organizing teamsters Local 507 in Cleveland. After Mr. Presser became president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, he made Mr. Friedman one of its vice presidents. In addition, he was president of both Local 19 and Local 507. All told, Mr. Friedman's union work paid him more than $500,000 a year.
        In 1986, Mr. Friedman was one of two top aides indicted along with Mr. Presser on charges of racketeering and embezzling union money. In 1989, Mr. Friedman and Anthony J. Hughes, recording secretary of Local 507, were found guilty in a payroll-padding scheme in which four people were paid by Local 507 who did no work for it. Mr. Presser died while under indictment.
        Mr. Friedman was sentenced to four years' probation, fined $35,000 and ordered to leave his union posts. In 1990, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, sitting in Cincinnati, upheld the conviction and sentence, which had been postponed while the case was on appeal.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Friedman's survivors include a son, David, of Mayfield Heights, Ohio; a daughter, Barbara, of Kingsford, Mich., and four grandchildren.
      