
        Victor Mills, who led an engineering team that invented the first mass-market disposable diaper and changed the way millions of parents attend to infants, died on Saturday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 100 years old.
        In 35 years as a chemical engineer for the Procter & Gamble Company, Mr. Mills had a hand in creating or improving products ranging from Ivory soap to the stacked potato wafers called Pringles. During World War II, he also helped refine the process for making synthetic rubber.
        But none of the products he worked on had a more dramatic impact on consumers than disposable diapers, which -- along with such things as Bic pens and microwave ovens -- have became a symbol of the culture of convenience that permeates most modern, time-pressed  societies.
        The first alternative to cloth diapers was imported from Sweden by Johnson & Johnson in the 1940's. But that product, Chux, was peddled mainly as a convenience for traveling families.
        It was Pampers, devised by Mr. Mills's team and introduced by Procter & Gamble in 1961, that made the diaper pail and laundry delivery truck a memory in most American households by the end of the 1960's.
        Ever since, a vigorous competition has been waged both in diaper marketing and technology between Procter & Gamble and its main competitor, Kimberly-Clark -- whose Huggies vie with Procter's Pampers and other brands for a nearly $4 billion annual market.
        Starting in the 1980's, the throwaway diaper briefly became a target of environmental groups as they sought to cut the flow of waste to landfills.
        But after extensive studies, environmental and consumer groups and Federal environmental officials concluded that there was no clear environmental advantage to using either laundered cloth or paper disposables.
        At the same time, other studies showed that disposable diapers tended to improve health and cleanliness in infants. ''From a pediatric and social hygiene perspective it's been a very important technology,'' said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a private environmental group.
        Today, disposables dominate most urbanized cultures, with the French using them in 98 out of every 100 diaper changes, while in the United States they are the choice about 95 percent of the time.
        Scott Stewart, a spokesman for Procter & Gamble, which had revenues of $35 billion last year, said that even though Mr. Mills retired 36 years ago, his name was still a household word among the company's engineering staff.
        Mr. Mills was born in Milford, Neb., in 1897, spent time in the Navy during World War I, then worked as a welder in Hawaii, where he met and married Grace Riggs, his first wife. They moved to Seattle, where he studied chemical engineering at the University of Washington.
        In 1926, Mr. Mills was hired by Procter & Gamble, which is based in Cincinnati, as one of the company's first chemical engineers.
        One of his greatest skills was in turning batch chemical processes -- in which a product is made one vat at a time -- into continuous assembly-line processes, said Dr. Bruce Finlayson, chairman of the department of chemical engineering at the University of Washington.
        Ivory soap had traditionally been made batch by batch in individual soap kettles, but Mr. Mills found a way to create the popular soap in a continual process that greatly cut the cost.
        Mr. Mills's daughter, Maile Mills Cuddy, recalled how he used to bring home products to test on the family -- not all of them successfully.
        ''I was a guinea pig all through my childhood,'' Mrs. Cuddy said. ''I remember a tooth liquid, Teel. You'd drip a few drops on a toothbrush. It was cherry red. I liked the taste, but it was not a success.''
        To get the lumps out of Duncan Hines cake mixes, he baked up a storm, bringing test batches home, Mrs. Cuddy said. ''We would taste cakes until they came out our ears.''
        During World War II, one of Mr. Mills's former teachers, Waldo Semon, consulted with him to try to overcome a problem plaguing efforts to create synthetic rubber, Dr. Finlayson said. Mr. Mills provided a special variant of Ivory soap flakes to add to batches of the rubber, and the problem was overcome.
        When Mr. Mills turned his energy to diapers in the 1950's, it was his grandchildren who took their turn as test subjects.
        While driving his daughter's three children home from a vacation in Maine, Mr. Mills tried out Pampers prototypes on one of them, she said. Apparently, they worked, said Mrs. Mills, who was not along on that trip.
        The first commercial version was test-marketed in Peoria, Ill., in 1961, the year Mr. Mills retired. The cumbersome product still required pins and consumers balked at the price of 10 cents a diaper (the equivalent of 40 cents today).
        But improvements in the design and a sharp cut in price soon made the diapers a mainstay in many households.
        Mr. Mills is survived by his second wife, Ruth Mills; his daughter, and three grandchildren.
      