
        Michael von Clemm, an investment banker who used a lifelong interest in anthropology to help pioneer the global Eurobond market, died on Thursday at his family home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 62.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his son-in-law, William Iselin, said.
        Mr. von Clemm, who held senior positions at Credit Suisse First Boston and Merrill Lynch, lived most of the last 35 years in London, where since 1996 he served as president of Templeton College, Oxford University's graduate management school.
        As one of a handful of multilingual bankers residing in London in the 1960's, Mr. von Clemm recognized that growing numbers of individuals, corporations and even countries were looking for ways to invest abroad without becoming entangled in national currency controls.
        Thus were born ''Eurocurrencies'' -- money on deposit in countries outside of those that printed it. The idea of offering dollar-denominated certificates of deposit in Europe was jointly devised by Mr. von Clemm, who at the time worked in London for the First National City Bank, and a friend, Stan Yassukovich, who worked for the London office of White, Weld & Company, an American investment bank.
        The bankers who began accepting the deposits also recognized they might lend the money at higher rates to customers seeking to borrow foreign currencies from an offshore source. Mr. von Clemm was one of several bankers credited with devising a way to spread the risk of those loans by transforming them into a short-term security that could be traded and whose interest rate varied according to changes in international financial markets -- the Eurodollar floating-rate note.
        ''Today's seamless global stock and bond markets would never have developed without Michael von Clemm,'' said John M. Hennessy, former chief executive of the American branch of Credit Suisse First Boston. ''There are many countries that have access to credit today solely because of him.''
        In 1971, Mr. von Clemm joined the London-based company that is now Credit Suisse First Boston. In his 15-year tenure there -- the last seven as chairman -- Mr. von Clemm led the investment bank to its still-dominant position as the largest underwriter of Eurobonds, debt securities issued outside the confines of any national market that are denominated in any of a variety of currencies, including marks, yen, pounds or dollars.
        Mr. von Clemm, who was born March 18, 1935, in New York City, earned four degrees in anthropology, graduating from Harvard College in 1956 and from Corpus Christi College of Oxford University in 1962.
        Reflecting that academic background, he was said to have come upon his interest in international banking in a less-than-usual way: While living for 14 months with the Wachagga tribe in Tanzania, he became intrigued by how people who were normally separated by great distances managed to exchange and barter goods when they came together.
        He also dabbled in other careers along the way. He worked as a crime reporter for The Boston Globe in 1959 and 1960 and taught at the Harvard Business School for four years. While working at Credit Suisse First Boston, he also served as chairman of Roux Restaurants, owner of Le Gavroche, which for a time was the only restaurant in Britain with three Michelin stars.
        In 1984, while scouting a site for a processing plant to house Roux's planned venture into packaged foods, Mr. von Clemm came upon a ramshackle stretch of the London waterfront known as the Docklands. He thought the docks, occupied by abandoned warehouses where a century ago ships unloaded their cargoes of bananas from the Canary Islands, could provide vast, inexpensive space to house the back-office operations of securities firms like Credit Suisse First Boston.
        That proved the beginnings of Canary Wharf. Mr. von Clemm's firm initially considered joining a partnership to develop the property, but instead signed on only as a tenant. The company thereby avoided the financial trouble that led its primary developer, Olympia & York, to lose the property to lenders shortly after it opened in 1992. Today, however, the Canary Wharf complex is 95 percent occupied, and generally considered one of the prime business sites in London.
        In January 1986, at age 50, Mr. von Clemm resigned abruptly from Credit Suisse First Boston and implied that he was leaving the Eurobond business, saying he wanted ''new mountains to climb.'' But barely two months later he joined Merrill Lynch as chairman of its capital markets subsidiary, serving as the  primary diplomat for the company to its network of global customers. He retired at the end of 1992, but continued to invest through a private company, Highmount Capital.
        Mr. von Clemm also served on the board of Massachusetts General Hospital, the Harvard School of Public Health, the East Africa Development Bank, and the U.S.-Korea Business Council. In addition, he was a member of the corporate boards of Eastman Chemical and the Liberty Financial Companies.
        Mr. von Clemm is survived by his wife, Lisa Hunnewell von Clemm; two daughters, Stefanie Claire von Clemm of Boston and Charlotte von Clemm Iselin of London; a sister, Alison von Clemm Curtis of Switzerland, and a grandson.
      