
        Sam Hairston, who spent more than 50 years as a professional baseball player, scout and coach but played in the major leagues just long enough to qualify for an asterisk, died on Oct. 31 at a nursing home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 77 and the first American-born black player on the Chicago White Sox.
        His family said the cause was pulmonary cardiac arrest.
        In his career, he played with Satchel Paige, Cool Papa Bell and other Negro League stars in the 1940's, won a Western League batting championship in the 1950's, spent the next three decades as a coach and scout and was in uniform as a coach for the Birmingham Barons until a few months before his death. But Hairston is chiefly remembered for the four games he appeared as a substitute catcher and pinch-hitter for the White Sox in 1951.
        Half a century after Jackie Robinson broke the baseball color barrier by joining the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, it is easy to forget that it was another dozen years before all 16 pre-expansion major league teams had signed a black player.
        By 1951, only five teams had put black players in major league uniforms, and when the White Sox became the sixth, the record got a bit confusing.
        For although Hairston, who played his first game on July 21, is often listed as the first black White Sox player, he actually joined the team almost three months after Minnie Minoso made his famous first-pitch home-run debut on May 1, a day after signing a White Sox contract.
        Minoso was also black, but Hairston has been accorded the honor partly because Minoso was considered Cuban rather than black and partly because Hairston had actually signed with the White Sox first, on July 31, 1950. That was the year he won the American Negro League's triple crown, batting .424, hitting 17 home runs and driving in 71 runs in 70 games with the Indianapolis Clowns, before joining the White Sox Class A farm club in Colorado Springs.
        In addition, unlike Minoso, Hairston, along with another black player, Bob Boyd, was at the White Sox 1951 training camp in Pasadena, Calif., but began the season with the Sacramento farm team before being called up in July.
        For someone who had been playing baseball most of his life, Hairston, a native of Crawford, Miss., who moved to Birmingham as a child and played semipro ball before breaking in with the Birmingham Black Barons and moving onto the Clowns in 1945, it was something of a late start for a rookie.
        He was 31, but was listed as 25, a deception he and the club continued to maintain with a wink during his 48 years with the organization. The White Sox 1997 media guide lists his birth date as 1925, although Mr. Hairston had long acknowledged he was really born in 1920.
        Whatever his age in 1951, he made a respectable debut at Comiskey Park on July 21, driving in a run on an eighth-inning double in a 10-5 loss to the Washington Senators.
        He appeared briefly in three more games, but having come up for the proverbial cup of coffee, he was gone by mid-August. Rejoining the Sky Sox, he led the team to the Western League championship and was named the league's most valuable player in 1953, won the batting title with a .350 average in 1955 and became such a popular figure that fans presented him with a new Pontiac on a Sam Hairston Night and a successor team retired his uniform number in 1993.
        During his dozen years as a coach of the Barons he made a similar impression on Birmingham. He was honored at a Sam Hairston Day last year, and a sports complex was named for him.
        He also started something of a baseball dynasty. When his son John joined the Chicago Cubs for what turned out to be a three-game major league career in 1969, Hairston became the first black major leaguer to have a son play in the majors. That distinction continued when another son, Jerry, set pinch-hitting records for the White Sox in the 1970's and 80's. With two grandsons now in the minors and others on the way, a third-generation major league Hairston seems only a matter of time.
        As for his own interlude in the majors, brevity has its rewards. In five official at-bats, Hairston, who also drew two walks, got two hits, giving him a career batting average of .400, or as he liked to put it, ''higher than Ty Cobb's.''
        He is survived by his wife, Dora; three sons by a previous marriage, John of Portland, Ore.; Jerry of Naperville, Ill., and Sam Jr. of Birmingham; seven brothers, Bob and Bill, of Nashville; Jack, Leotis and Willie of Birmingham, Johnny of Scooba, Miss., and Herbert of Cleveland; three sisters, Leanna Taylor and Nellie Butler of Birmingham and Bessie Bishop of Jefferson, Pa.; 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      