
        Leon Forrest, a writer who explored black American history in his richly complex, epic novels, died on Thursday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 60 and lived in Evanston.
        The cause was cancer, said his agent, Faith Childs.
        Mr. Forrest, who had taught African-American studies and English at Northwestern University for the last 24 years, was the author of four novels, as well as plays and essays. He had recently completed a collection of novellas that has yet to be published, Ms. Childs said.
        Mr. Forest was perhaps best known for his last novel, ''Divine Days'' (1993), a 1,138-page narrative about seven days in 1966 on the South Side of Chicago. In it he mixed several genres, including the parable, tall tale and philosophical argument, to evoke a world inhabited by everyone from politicians and preachers to retired redcaps.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Stanley Crouch described ''Divine Days'' as ''an adventurous masterwork that provides our literature with a signal moment.'' Mr. Forrest, the reviewer wrote, developed ''an intricate antiphony between things specific to the South Side of Chicago and universal themes like transcendence, the irresponsible uses of the charismatic, the heartbreak of the doomed romance, the riotous absurdity of human circumstances and the reincarnation of individuals and eras.''
        Mr. Forrest pursued many of the same themes in his three other novels, ''There Is a Tree More Ancient Than Eden'' (1973), ''The Bloodworth Orphans'' (1977) and ''Two Wings to Veil My Face'' (1983). Those novels, which were edited by Toni Morrison, were known as the Forest County Trilogy.
        Mr. Forrest was born in Chicago in 1937; his father worked as a bartender, a job the author would later hold while taking courses at the University of Chicago. His upbringing on the South Side, which included influences ranging from the Baptist and Roman Catholic Churches to the blues and jazz, would later be reflected in his writing style, which critics characterized as musical and multilayered, though sometimes overwrought.
        He studied journalism and creative writing at Wilson Junior College and Roosevelt University in Chicago until he was drafted into the Army. After serving in Germany, Mr. Forrest worked for several newspapers in Chicago, including the Nation of Islam's ''Muhammad Speaks.'' He was the last non-Muslim top editor at the publication.
        In 1973, Mr. Forrest joined Northwestern's creative writing and literature staff. In 1985, the university named him chairman of its department of African-American studies.
        Known primarily for his novels, Mr. Forrest published a collection of essays in 1994, ''Relocations of the Spirit,'' in which he discussed William Faulkner and Ralph Ellison, in addition to the Black Muslims and Michael Jordan.
        He is survived by his wife, Marianne; a stepson, James Claude Holt; a stepdaughter, Peggie Holt Price,  and two grandsons.
      