
        Luther G. Simjian, a prolific inventor who held patents on devices as diverse as the flight simulator, the self-focusing camera, the automated teller machine and the Teleprompter, died at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on Oct. 23. He was 92.
        During an inventing career that spanned seven decades, Mr. Simjian, a Turk who immigrated to the United States at the age of 16, held more than 200 domestic and international patents, most in electronics and optics.
        ''Many called him the second Thomas A. Edison,'' said Richard G. Snyder, president of Reflectone Inc., a company in Tampa, Fla., that Mr. Simjian founded in 1939.
        Initially educated in the Middle East and France, Mr. Simjian finished his secondary education in New Haven, where he lived with an uncle.
        Taken with the idea of studying medicine, Mr. Simjian, after finishing high school, began to work in the photographic laboratory at the Yale University Medical School.
        But he proved so deft with a camera that thoughts of studying medicine were set aside, and in 1928 Mr. Simjian was named the first director of a newly created photography department at the Yale Medical School.
        While at Yale, Mr. Simjian patented several new devices, including the self-focusing camera in 1932 and a color X-ray machine in 1934.
        In 1939, he founded Reflectone, which was initially based in Stamford, Conn., to develop and manufacture his inventions.
        Disturbed by the deaths of many contemporaries and friends during World War II, Mr. Simjian invented the Optical Range Estimation Trainer, the first flight simulator of its kind, to train pilots and tail gunners.
        In the early 1960's, Reflectone was merged with the Universal Match Company. Later, it was spun off as an independent, public company and earlier this year was sold for about $90 million to the British Aerospace Company. It remains in the business of making full-flight simulators for commercial and military aircraft.
        Mr. Simjian subsequently formed two other companies, General Research Inc. and Command Automation Inc. as umbrella organizations for his increasingly eclectic list of inventions.
        Over the years, those included a supersonic exploring device for the ultrasound procedures used in hospitals, a method for tenderizing meat and a remote controlled postage meter.
        ''One thing I discovered about myself in the early days of my life is that I can't stick with just one idea for too long,'' Mr. Simjian wrote in a autobiography that was privately published earlier this year.
        In the 1960's, he received more than 20 patents on ideas that form the basis of automated banking, from the notion of creating a machine that could accept deposits and dispense cash at any hour.
        In his autobiography, Mr. Simjian said he had doubts about whether  bank customers would place their faith in a machine to take their money ''with no proof of what they had put in other than a printed receipt.''
        Indeed, a precursor of what is now Citicorp took a few of Mr. Simjian's machines on a trial basis, but after about six months the bank, which later became the first big user of such machines, told him they had only limited appeal, according to Mr. Simjian's autobiography.
        ''It seems the only people who were using the machines were a small number of prostitutes and gamblers who didn't want to deal with tellers face to face,'' Mr. Simjian wrote. ''And the bank said there were not enough of them to make the deal lucrative.''
        A golfer, Mr. Simjian developed and patented a computerized indoor golf practice range during the 1960's. When a ball is struck, an analog computer calculates and projects its flight on a screen. In 1973, he created an exercise bike that massages the torso while the rider pedals.
        ''He once sent me a swivel chair he invented that allowed you to sit at a dressing table and look at your hair from four different angles,'' said Bobbie Kay Stafford, an associate at the New York brokerage firm of Melhado, Flynn & Associates. She was Mr. Simjian's stockbroker for the last 16 years of his life.
        Indeed, despite failing eyesight, Mr. Simjian kept on inventing until his death. In March, he received his last patent, for a process designed to improve the resonance of wood used in making musical instruments.
        In 1978, in recognition of his work,  Mr. Simjian received the Eli Whitney Award by the Connecticut Patent Law Association.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gladys Cannon, of Fort Lauderdale; a daughter, Maryjo S. Garre of Barrington, Ill., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 4, 1997, Tuesday
        An obituary on Sunday about Luther G. Simjian, inventor of devices including the flight simulator and the automated teller machine, referred imprecisely to his nationality. While he was born in Turkey, he was of Armenian descent.
      