
        John Manly Eklund, who led the American Federation of Teachers in years of political and social upheaval, died on Jan. 11 at the Canterbury Gardens retirement community in Denver. He was 87 and most recently lived in Naples, Fla.
        Dr. Eklund was the national president of the teachers union from 1948 to 1952, when the organization confronted divisive problems like the perception that Communists were infiltrating unions and the resistance to racial integration of unions.
        He then worked as an agricultural administrator and promoted farming cooperatives worldwide. He retired in 1975 as the president of Agricultural Cooperative Development International, which worked with the  Agency for International Development to spread such cooperative ventures in Africa and Asia.
        Dr. Eklund, who was born in Burlington, Iowa, graduated as an English major in 1931 from Bethany College in Lindsborg, Kan., where he was a top athlete. He studied at the Iliff School of Theology and the University of Denver for his master's degrees in theology and education and, years later, received a doctorate in education at Teachers College at Columbia University.
        Like his father, he was a Methodist pastor before he entered the Denver school system in 1938 as an English teacher and guidance counselor. His concern about the poor economic standing of teachers in public schools after World War II prompted him to organize for the American Federation of Teachers.
        As national president of the union,  a member of the American Federation of Labor, he worked to bring balky locals, particularly in the South, in line with A.F.L. rules against racial discrimination in union ranks.
        Another issue the union faced then was the battle over state laws demanding loyalty oaths from teachers and barring Communists from school jobs.
        Dr. Eklund and the union denounced such requirements.
        In 1961 he became the director of education for the National Farmers Union and five years later the executive vice president of its International Assistance Corporation. As president of Agricultural Cooperative Development International, he directed diverse projects to transfer American farming skills to developing countries.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Zara Zerbst Eklund; two sons, Gary P., of Goleta, Calif., and Carl A., of Denver, and six grandchildren.
      