
        The Rev. Dr. Bob Jones Jr., the chancellor and board chairman of Bob Jones University in Greenville, S.C., who in the late 1970's forfeited his college's Federal tax exemption rather than permit students of different races to date or marry, died yesterday at his home in Greenville.  He was 86.
        Dr. Jones died of cancer, said Jonathan Pait, the community relations coordinator at the university.
        Bob Jones University, a Christian fundamentalist institution, was founded in 1927 by Dr. Jones's father, the Rev. Dr. Bob Jones Sr., an Alabama farm boy who became a popular evangelist and prohibitionist in the South at the turn of the century. The university, then as now, ''stands without apology for the old-time religion and the absolute authority of the Bible,'' in the words of the founder,  who died in 1968.
        Dr. Jones served as acting president from 1932 to 1947, and as president from the time of the university's move to Greenville in 1947 until 1971 when he passed the position on to his eldest son, Dr. Bob Jones 3d. At that time, Dr. Jones became the university's chancellor-chairman, which relieved him of day-to-day responsibilities and gave him the opportunity to preach. He continued to hold great power at the college and also preached his fundamentalist Christian views around the world.
        In the 1970's Bob Jones University's Federal tax exempt status was challenged as a result of a 1970 Internal Revenue Service policy that stopped granting such status to private schools that practiced discrimination.
        Dr. Jones had defended the university's policy against dating and marriage by couples of different races by maintaining that it was based on a literal interpretation of the Bible and therefore came under the Constitutional protection of religious freedom.
        In the Book of Genesis, he declared, the Bible tells the story of the Tower of Babel, which describes how God divided the speech of the tower builders into many languages in order that humankind would not become overly enamored of its material accomplishments and neglect its duty to God.
        It is therefore a sin, Dr. Jones insisted, to oppose that divine act by permitting interracial dating. Many Christian fundamentalists do not agree with this view, but Dr. Jones drew a following and became widely recognized as a champion of racial segregation.
        In 1983, the United States Supreme Court ruled that there was no question that the Internal Revenue Service was correct in 1970, when it stopped granting tax-exempt status to discriminatory colleges.
        President Ronald Reagan sought in 1982 to revoke that 1970 policy because, he said, it had ''no basis in law,'' in that there was no specific ban written in the revenue service code. This action came to symbolize his Administration's break with the civil rights policies of the past.
        The Court's decision, phrased in unequivocal and forceful language, was a repudiation of the Administration's legal position. The vote was 8 to 1, with Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist casting the dissenting vote.
        ''There can no longer be any doubt,'' Chief Justice Warren E. Burger wrote in his majority opinion, ''that racial discrimination in education violates deeply and widely accepted views of elementary justice.''
        ''It would be wholly incompatible with the concepts underlying tax exemption,'' he continued, ''to grant the benefit of tax-exempt status to racially discriminatory educational entities.''
        The decision upheld rulings of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which found that  Bob Jones University and the Goldsboro Christian Schools in Goldsboro, N.C., practiced racial discrimination and were therefore not entitled to tax-exempt status.
        After hearing the ruling, Dr. Jones preached a sermon in the college chapel, declaring: ''We're in a bad fix when eight evil old men and one vain and foolish woman can speak a verdict on American liberties. Our nation from this day forward is no better than Russia insofar as expecting the blessings of God is concerned.''
        The interracial dating ban is still enforced at Bob Jones University, and the college has not regained its tax exemption. It has never been accredited nor belonged to an association of institutes of higher education, believing that the requirements of such accrediting or affiliation do more harm than good.
        ''We prefer to stand by our product,'' Mr. Pait said.
        The university, which today has about 5,000 students from most regions of the United States and about 40 foreign countries, is nondenominational. The student body includes Baptists, Presbyterians, Methodists, members of independent Bible churches and others.
        Mr. Pait said that since the late 1960's there had been about a dozen African and African-American students, a number of Asians and Asian-Americans and others representing different races in the student body.
        ''We don't have co-ed dorms, but otherwise the races are there together on campus,'' he said. ''It's just that they don't date.''
        Dr. Jones was a fiery orator and deep conservative like his father. During the 1928 Presidential election campaign, Dr. Jones Sr. barnstormed through Alabama to denounce Gov. Alfred E. Smith of New York, the standard-bearer of the Democratic Party and the first Roman Catholic to be nominated for President.
        Dr. Jones Sr. said he was determined to combat ''the atheistic drift in educational institutions'' by founding one of his own. He used his savings and gifts from many people to begin his college in 1927 in Lynn Haven, Fla. The college moved six years later to Cleveland, Tenn., and eventually to South Carolina. Some of its graduates become missionaries and ministers, and some have been elected as state senators and representatives.
        The university is known for its strict behavior codes for students. Men must wear ties and women skirts. Dates must be chaperoned and chapel attendance is mandatory.
        Dr. Jones Jr. campaigned for Senator Barry Goldwater, Republican of Arizona, in his race for the Presidency in 1964. His slogan was ''Turn Back America, Turn Back -- Only a Divine Miracle Can Save America Now.''
        He has been quoted as saying that the Rev. Billy Graham was too liberal and that the Roman Catholic Eucharist amounted to cannibalism.
        On campus Dr. Jones was regarded as a grandfatherly figure who could turn steely when the conversation turned to Scripture.
        The Rev. Ron Allen, pastor of the Bible Baptist Church in Matthews, N.C., who was a student and later a teacher at the Bob Jones Academy, a private secondary school affiliated with the university, once told The Charlotte Observer: ''The issue for him was never what was the most convenient thing or the easiest thing, or what people wanted to hear. It was always, 'What does the Bible say?' ''
        It seems as though the college has always gained attention for failing to join modernity. ''Bob Jones University students have never followed the trends of the day,'' Dr. Jones once said in a commencement address. ''Twenty years ago, they were not swallowing goldfish, and this spring there were no lingerie raids on our girls' dormitories. We do not send out graduates to turn the world upside down. We are sending you out with the message of the Gospel, which can turn men upside down.''
        Dr. Jones assembled a noted collection of religious art at the university and tirelessly promoted a rich cultural life of theater, concerts and plays on campus. An accomplished orator and actor, he frequently assigned himself a leading part in student theatrical productions. He organized the university's Shakespearean repertory group, the Classic Players, and was also interested in art and music. He was the author of several books, including ''Wine of Morning,'' a Biblical novel.
        In addition to his son, Dr. Jones is survived by his wife, the former Fannie-May Holmes; two other children, Jon E. Jones of Cookeville, Tenn., and Joy Estelle Jordan of Columbus, Ind., 10 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      