
        William Matthews, a poet who was praised for his personal voice and who won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1996, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 55.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said his companion, Celia Bellinger.
        Mr. Matthews, a professor of English at City College, also won the Modern Poetry Association's 1997 Ruth Lilly Award. He was a former chairman of the literature panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and a former president of the Poetry Society of America.
        Another New York poet, Karen Swenson, said yesterday: ''He was one of the most distinguished personal poets of our generation. He wrote his life.''
        The poet W. S. Merwin, praising Mr. Matthews's ''Foreseeable Futures'' (1987), the seventh of his 10 books, said: ''His poems 20 years ago were those of a young man, and these he seems to have grown into; they seem to have aged along with him, and they are delightful, and in their wry grace, reassuring.''
        In an interview that was made public last month on the Atlantic Monthly's Atlantic Unbound Web site, Mr. Matthews was asked whether his work was the poetry of experience. He answered: ''Well, it's certainly not the poetry of innocence. Life happens to us whether we have the good sense to be interested in the way it happens to us or not. That's what it means to be alive.
        ''I would like to think that in my poems I am as interested in and bemused by and willing to follow and question simultaneously those opportunities as I am while I'm being a civilian.''
        His book ''Foreseeable Futures'' contains these lines:
        Each emotion lusts for its
        opposite --
        which is to say, for itself. Our water music
        every morning rains death's old sweet song,
        but relentless joy infests the blues all day.
        He won the Book Critics Circle Award for his book ''Time & Money: New Poems'' (1995) in which, writing about the jazz musician Charles Mingus, he observed:
        You have to pick up The Bass, as Mingus called
        his, with audible capitals, and think of the slow years
        the wood spent as a tree, which might well have been
        enough for wood, and think of the skill the bassmaker
        carried without great thought of it from home
        to the shop and back for decades, and know
        what bassists before you have played, and know
        how much of this is stored in The Bass like energy
        in a spring and know how much you must coax out.
        How easy it would be, instead, to pull a sword
        from a stone. But what's inside the bass wants out.
        William Procter Matthews 3d was born in Cincinnati and went on to graduate in 1965 from Yale College and to receive a master's degree in 1966 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In later years he taught English and related subjects. He was an instructor at Wells College in Aurora, N.Y., an assistant professor at Cornell and an associate professor at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
        He also was a professor of English taught at the University of Washington at Seattle from 1978 to 1983 and at the City College of New York from 1983 until his death.
        His 1963 marriage to Marie Murray Harris ended in divorce, as did two later marriages.
        Besides Ms. Bellinger, of Queens, he is survived by his mother, Mary Matthews of Newcastle-on-Tyne, England; two sons, William, of Seattle and Sebastian, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; two grandchildren and two step-grandchildren; and a sister, Susan Matthews of Manhattan.
        In his poem ''Time,'' which also appeared in ''Time & Money,'' Mr. Matthews mused about the passage of time, and life, ending with these lines:
        And yet we must remember this:
        dire time hectors us along with it, and so
        we might consider thanks. Wednesday. Thursday.
        Thus water licks its steady way through stone.
      