
        Georges Marchais, whose rigid leadership of the French Communist Party from 1972 to 1994 was blamed for reducing it to the margins of French political life, died yesterday in Paris. He was 77.
        He had suffered a long history of heart disease and was admitted a week before he died to Lariboisiere Hospital in Paris with cardiac and lung complications.
        He led what had been the largest single party in France at the end of World War II, but under him the Communist share of the French popular vote dwindled from 21.4 percent at the beginning of his term to 9.2 percent in 1993, just before he retired as General Secretary. ''My mother conceived me 25 years too early or 25 years too late,'' he told supporters in 1997 near the end of a quarter-century in the French Parliament.
        Even what might have been a triumph, acceptance by the Communists of an invitation to join a Socialist-led Government after the election of President Francois Mitterrand in 1981, turned sour instead.
        After an initial phase of nationalizations of major banks and industries long favored by the Communists, Mr. Mitterrand reversed economic course in 1984 when recession struck, and Mr. Marchais pulled his party out of the Government.
        Many French voters felt disillusioned, and Mr. Marchais said years later that he would worry until his dying day whether he had been wrong to accept Mr. Mitterrand's invitation in the first place. The Communists' traditional base in the working-class suburbs of the big French cities also crumbled during the 1980s as immigration from North Africa increased and the extreme right National Front party exploited the resentment of French workers who felt they were being displaced by newcomers.
        In this rapidly changing political landscape, the bushy-browed Mr. Marchais seemed frozen in outdated Marxist-Leninist dogma, holding the reins of power with an iron grip and insisting on absolute loyalty from subordinates. Later he maintained that he had been trying to change the party from within.
        ''Its gravest mistake was that for a long time it considered the Soviet Union to be a model,'' he said in early 1994. ''When I joined the Communist Party in 1947, if I had known that Stalinism existed and what it was, I never would have signed up.''
        But he backed the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, while other European Communist parties in Italy and Spain opposed it. He backed Poland's crackdown on the Solidarity labor movement in 1981.
        And when Communism collapsed in Eastern Europe a decade later, Mr. Marchais was taken by surprise as much as discredited leaders like Nicolae Ceausescu in Rumania or Erich Honecker in East Germany, and he insisted later that Communist rule in the east had been, on balance, positive.
        ''I didn't think that things could move so fast,'' he said later, on the eve of his own withdrawal from the political scene in 1994, after the Soviet Union had followed its satellite regimes to extinction.
        Mr. Marchais, born into a poor coal-mining family in the Calvados region on June 7, 1920, never graduated from a French lycee or attended university. French intellectuals, attracted by Communist ideals after the war, later made fun of his inelegant working-class accent.
        He did not join the Communist Party until after the war, and spent at least two of the war years in Germany -- not as a political prisoner or a forced laborer, as he maintained, but as a volunteer worker for Germany's Messerschmitt aircraft company, according to his critics.
        Questions about what he had done during the war dogged him throughout his political career. He had left school in 1934, at the age of 14, to work as a metalworker in the nascent aeronautical industry. When the Germans invaded France in 1940, his strategically important job kept him from being conscripted into the French Army.
        After the French defeat, according to German documents that his critics unearthed years after the war, Mr. Marchais took a job in an aircraft repair factory requisitioned by the German Air Force in Bievres-Villacoublay. There, he worked on Focke-Wulf aircraft there from 1941 to 1942, and at the end of that year the Germans transferred him to a Messerschmitt factory near Augsburg in Germany. He remained there, working on German jet engines, through 1945, according to the documents.
        Mr. Marchais said that the Germans drafted him as a laborer in 1940 and forcibly transported him to Germany in 1942. He said he had fled from the Messerschmitt job in 1943 and had hidden out in France until the Liberation.
        But his official biography is silent on the years between 1943 and 1946. It says in 1946, he began assuming different responsibilities in the Communist C.G.T. labor union's metallurgical section, and joined the French Communist Party in 1947.
        Though lacking the Resistance record that gave so many other French Communists political legitimacy after the war, Mr. Marchais quickly rose through the party ranks with hard work and political skill, becoming active in the trade union and winning a seat in the party's Central Committee in 1956.
        Three years later, he was admitted to the party's ruling body, the Politburo, and in 1961, he occupied the important post of organizational secretary. He held that post in 1968, when the party distanced itself from Moscow by refusing to support the Russian invasion of Czechoslovakia to keep a loyal orthodox Communist regime in power.
        When General Secretary Waldeck Rochet fell ill in 1969, Mr. Marchais became the party's effective leader.
        Elected General Secretary in 1972, he signed a joint electoral platform of the Left with Mr. Mitterrand and his Socialists, and in 1973 won a parliamentary seat from the Val-de-Marne district outside Paris that he held through 1997.
        Under his leadership in 1975, the French party disowned Stalinism and its crimes, and in 1976 it abandoned the doctrine of ''dictatorship of the proletariat,'' earning a rebuke from the orthodox Soviet leader of the time, Leonid I. Brezhnev for being part of the ''Eurocommunist'' reform movement, seen in Moscow as heretical.
        But it was not until June 1993 that Mr. Marchais agreed to give up the Leninist principle of ''democratic centralism,'' the iron doctrine of deciding all party affairs from above.
        In foreign policy, Mr. Marchais remained loyal to the Soviets.
        He ran for the French Presidency in the election that Mr. Mitterrand won in 1981, but Mr. Marchais got the support of only 15.3 percent of the voters. After the brief Communist participation in Government -- for the first time since the war -- under Prime Minister Pierre Mauroy, Mr. Marchais led the Communist slate in elections for the European Parliament in 1984, but won barely 11 percent of the vote.
        In 1990, he beat down many challenges to his leadership of the Party, but internal resistance was increasing. He made a short visit to the United States in 1992, the high point of which was meeting Gus Hall, leader of the American Communist Party, in New York City. Soon afterward, in 1993, he announced that, at the age of 73, he was ready to turn over the reins to somebody younger.
        He picked Robert Hue, a bearded and energetic judo expert a generation younger than Mr. Marchais, to be his successor as head of the party, holding on nevertheless to an office in the Central Committee to keep an eye on things.
        Mr. Hue, who took the less Stalinist-sounding title of National Secretary, announced that he did not view Communist rule in the East as, on balance, positive at all. Mr. Marchais finally gave up his seat in the leadership in May 1986.
        He is survives his divorced first wife, Paulette Noetinger; his second wife, Liliane Grelot-Marchais; three daughters; a son, and six grandchildren.
      