
        The Rev. Warren William Ost, who made his ministry among those who travel, live or work in the national parks, died on Nov. 6 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 71.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said in reporting his death last week.
        Mr. Ost started his five-decade career in the parks as a bellhop at the Old Faithful Inn at Yellowstone National Park. Later, as an ordained Presbyterian minister, he frequently made his summer headquarters in Jackson Hole, Wyo., from which he traveled a 35,000-mile circuit extending from Texas to Alaska. He retired last year as founding director and chairman emeritus of A Christian Ministry in the National Parks, a volunteer service staffed by seminarians and college students directed by the ministry's headquarters in Boston.
        It was in the summer of 1945, while he was working for a concessionaire at Yellowstone, that Mr. Ost began to think about creating a ministry for the people of the national parks. Few parks offered regular religious services then, and Mr. Ost, a seminarian at the time, began by filling in as chaplain and choirmaster at Yellowstone.
        The next year he established A Christian Ministry for the National Parks, and in 1952 the privately financed program formally incorporated. In the years since, the nondenominational ministry has served  millions of people.
        Mr. Ost was also heavily involved in international Christian tourism. He worked with leaders in Europe and with American organizations to take part in the Vatican's Congress on the Spiritual Values of Tourism in 1967. Two years later he helped found Tourisme Oecumenique, an organization involved in religion and leisure tourism in Europe and the Caribbean.
        Mr. Ost, a native of Minnesota, graduated from the University of Minnesota and Princeton Theological Seminary.
        He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Nancy Nesbitt Ost; their daughter, Laura Ost of Arlington, Va., and a sister, Joan Bender of Grand Rapids, Minn.
      