
        Paul Chesley Hodges, the founding chairman of the radiology department at the University of Chicago Medical Center and inventor of diagnostic devices and methods, died on Dec. 27 at a nursing home in Green Bay, Wis. He was 103.
        Dr. Hodges caught the attention of the medical profession in 1942 when he introduced a photo timer that automatically calculated optimal X-ray exposure for a high-quality diagnostic image. He was also credited with turning his department into a world-class center.
        Starting in the 1930's he developed dedicated X-ray machines, so named because they produced images of specific parts of the body. Two inventions, an X-ray film viewer and the photo timer, are still widely used.
        He created the timer with Russell H. Morgan, a medical student who went on to become the chairman of radiology at Johns Hopkins University. Their device not only enhanced the quality of X-rays, but also reduced the required dose of radiation, insured higher consistency between images and reduced the need for repeat exams.
        Dr. Hodges, born in Indiana, was raised in Ashland, Wis., where his father and uncle, both physicians, formed the staff of the community hospital. After his father died, he apprenticed with his uncle and, operating the only X-ray machine for many miles around, made his first radiological diagnosis at 15: a fractured fibula.
        He worked his way through the University of Wisconsin by running the X-ray machines at Madison General Hospital. He taught physiology at Harvard Medical School and in China before receiving his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1918.
        At 26, he was named the director of radiology at the Beijing University Medical College. After receiving a doctorate in physiology at the University of Wisconsin, he returned to Beijing to direct the college's radiology section, building most of its equipment himself.
        The University of Chicago recruited him in 1927 to head its fledgling radiology program. After receiving emeritus status in 1958, he remained active on the Chicago campus and as a visiting professor at several universities. He was also a consultant  and set up the first program in radiology at the University of Taipei.
        He published scores of articles on clinical radiology and two books.
        Dr. Hodges is survived by a son, Dr. Paul Hodges Jr. of Green Bay; a daughter, Mrs. Phil Rogers of Dallas; 11 grandchildren, and 24 great-grandchildren.
      