
        Russ Meyer, a right-handed pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies' pennant-winning Whiz Kids of 1950 and the Brooklyn Dodgers' World Series champions of 1955, who was notorious for hot-tempered displays, died Sunday in Oglesby, Ill. He was 74.
        He had suffered from congestive heart failure, said Jeff Idelson, a spokesman for the Baseball Hall of Fame.
        Meyer pitched in the major leagues for 13 seasons, posting a record of 94-73, but he was best remembered for moments on the mound that never made the record books -- his fiery outbursts that brought him the nickname the Mad Monk.
        Regarding the second half of his nickname, he recalled how ''there was a great football player at Army named Monk Meyer. I was a halfway decent football player in high school, so they called me Monk. It just stuck with me during baseball.''
        As far as the ''Mad'' part of his sobriquet went, the events of May 25, 1953, told it all.
        Pitching for the Dodgers at Philadelphia, Meyer rushed the home-plate umpire, Augie Donatelli, in the fourth inning in anger over ball-and-strike calls. After catcher Roy Campanella shooed him back to the mound, Meyer heaved the resin bag 30 feet in the air. It came down on his head. Donatelli then ejected Meyer and his then powder-blue cap.
        As he trudged from the mound, Meyer hurled his glove into the dugout. A few minutes later, the local television station caught him making an obscene gesture at the umpire from the dugout.
        The Dodgers scored 12 runs with nobody out in the eighth inning and went on to a 16-2 drubbing of the Phils, their banished pitcher losing a chance for an easy victory.
        A few days later, the Philadelphia police commissioner, Thomas J. Gibbons, reported receiving dozens of calls and letters from viewers offended by Meyer's dugout behavior. He warned Meyer that if anything like that happened again, his police would take ''appropriate action.''
        Meyer confined his television performances to the mound for the rest of the season, his 15 victories helping the Dodgers earn another of their World Series dates with the Yankees. In Game 5, at Ebbets Field, Meyer was victimized by one of the more crushing blows administered by the Yankees to the Dodgers in their encounters of the 1940's and 1950's.
        With the Series even at two games apiece, Meyer relieved Johnny Podres in the third inning, with the Yanks leading, 2-1, the bases loaded and two out. Mickey Mantle, the first batter Meyer faced, blasted a screwball into the upper-left-field stands for a grand slam that propelled the Yankees to an 11-7 victory. They won the Series the next day.
        A native of Peru, Ill., Meyer pitched in the major leagues from 1946 to 1959, spending his first three years with the Chicago Cubs. His best seasons were 1949, when he went 17-8 for Philadelphia with a 3.08 earned run average, the lowest among National League right-handers, and 1953, when he was 15-5 for the Dodgers.
        Having hurt his arm in spring training of 1950, Meyer went only 9-11 for the Phils' pennant winners of 1950, the franchise's first pennant in 35 years. But he won two games against the Dodgers late in the season, which saw Philadelphia turn back Brooklyn on the final day.
        In June 1981, Meyer returned to Brooklyn with his former teammates Carl Erskine and Sandy Amoros to promote a quest to bring the Dodgers back from Los Angeles.  But in renewing old times, he lost his treasured rewards from his Dodger days: He was held up at gunpoint and had his 1953 and 1955 Dodger World Series rings stolen. At least it did not happen in Brooklyn -- the scene of the crime was Lexington Avenue and East 25th Street.
        Meyer spent 12 years in the Yankees' organization, mostly as a pitching coach in the minor leagues, and served as the Yankees' bench coach in 1992. He retired from baseball after that season and operated a bowling alley in Oglesby.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy, and three children.
      