
        David Ignatow, whose clear, direct, seemingly effortless verse won him one of poetry's highest honors, the Bollingen Prize, in 1977, died on Monday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 83.
        He had been suffering from congestive heart failure, said a friend, Virginia Terris.
        ''An ordinary man is a message to the world,'' Mr. Ignatow once wrote. The words defined the essence of his poetry, his subject matter of ordinary life and his emphasis on meaning rather than the artifice of language.
        One of his best-known poems, ''Get the Gasworks,'' written during the 1940's, contained these lines:
        Get the gasworks in a poem
        and you've got the smoke and smokestacks,
        the mottled red and yellow tenements,
        and grimy kids who curse with the pungency
        of the odor of gas. You've got America, boy.
        Mr. Ignatow was the author and editor of 27 books, including ''I Have a Name'' (1996) and ''Shadowing the Ground'' (1991). He published short stories and a memoir, ''The One in the Many'' (1988), and edited collections of the work of William Carlos Williams and Walt Whitman. The critic Ralph J. Mills once wrote that Mr. Ignatow followed ''in the tradition of those genuine poets who have, in independent ways, struggled to create a living American poetry from the immediacies of existence in this country, from the tragedies and potentialities of its legacy, and from the abundant music and vitality of its language.''
        Mr. Ignatow's chief influences were Williams, Hart Crane and especially Whitman. His work ran against the dominant strain of his generation of poets: James Merrill, Richard Wilbur, John Hollander, and John Ashbery. For many of them, Mr. Ignatow once said in an interview in The Paris Review, ''language takes precedence over content.'' But he had learned from Williams, to guard against ''a romantic view of life,'' he said. ''Against elevated language. Against trying to make a leap into something which didn't exist.''
        Robert Bly, in his afterword to Mr. Ignatow's ''Selected Poems,'' which he edited in 1975, said: ''We are more used to poets open to personal unconscious. If the dark side is thought of as part of the personal unconscious, we notice that David Ignatow sees his dark side clearly only after he he has seen it reflected in the angers and frustrations of the collective.''
        Calling him ''a poet of the community, of people who work for a living, as Whitman was,'' Mr. Bly said Mr. Ignatow ''is also a great poet of the collective.''
        He was born David Ignatowsky in Brooklyn on Feb. 7, 1914, and graduated from New Utrecht High School. His father, Max, an immigrant from Russia, had learned the bookbinding trade as an apprentice in a Russian monastery, and he brought his skills with him to the new country. Max Ignatowsky pressed his son to work in the family bookbinding business, but the aspiring writer resisted until the Depression cornered him into taking the job. Later, when David was accepted in the W.P.A. Newspaper Project as a reporter, Max Ignatowsky, proud of his son's achievement, financed ''Poems,'' Mr. Ignatow's first book, which was published in 1948.
        The book won immediate, influential praise from Williams, who wrote in The New York Times Book Review: ''These are poems for the millions.'' He went on to praise their ''tragic force, economy of language and plastic sense governing the words.'' Mr. Ignatow, he said, was ''a first-rate poet.''
        Still, Mr. Ignatow struggled for years to support himself and his family while continuing to write. He took jobs that he hoped would give him time for poetry, toiling as a night clerk in a vegetable market, as a paper salesman, as a weekend messenger for Western Union and as an admitting clerk at St. John's Hospital in Brooklyn. Later, as his reputation grew, he was able to obtain teaching positions at Vassar College, Columbia University and York College of the City University, where he was a poet in residence.
        Mr. Ignatow's early work concentrated on the evils of business and having to earn a living. He once defined money and getting it as ''the central issue of our time.'' But in many ways, he was at his best when he wrote of the intimacies of everyday life, in poems about his family and about love.
        In one of his recent poems, ''My Love for You,'' he wrote:
        My love for you is a dark hall
        through which I tap my way
        along the walls for an exit
        to an orchard under which
        I may sit and speak.
        In 1937 Mr. Ignatow married Rose Graubart, a painter and writer, and he adopted her son, who was also named David. Later, the boy had a mental breakdown and was institutionalized. Mr. Ignatow wrote of him in a poem called ''In Limbo'':
        I have a child in limbo,
        I must bring him back.
        My experience grows
        but there is no wisdom
        without a child in the house.
        The son died in 1985. The couple also had a daughter, Yaedi.
        For many years, Mr. Ignatow lived separately from his wife. After she died, also in 1985, Mr. Ignatow wrote of her: ''I will lie down beside her in death/ because it is no longer possible/in life./ And within me I feel a tenderness for what is kept, and what cannot be kept.''
        From 1962 to 1963, he was poetry editor of The Nation, and he served as president of the Poetry Society of America. In addition to the Bollingen, he received an award from the National Institute of Arts and Letters, the Robert Frost Medal of the Poetry Society of America and the Wallace Stevens fellowship at Yale.
        Mr. Ignatow is survived by his daughter, a writer, of Manhattan and East Hampton. ''We're not going to die,'' Mr. Ignatow once wrote when his daughter was a child and had asked him a question about death:
        We'll find a way.
        We'll breathe deeply
        and eat carefully.
        We'll think always on life.
        There'll be no fading for you or for me.
        In another poem, ''Two Friends,'' from the collection ''Against the Evidence, Selected Poems 1934-1994,'' he again approached the subject of death:
        I have something to tell you.
        I'm listening.
        I'm dying.
        I'm sorry to hear.
        I'm growing old.
        It's terrible.
        It is, I thought you should know.
        Of course and I'm sorry. Keep in touch.
        I will and you too.
        And let us know what's new.
        Certainly, though it can't be much.
        And stay well.
        And you too.
        And go slow.
        And you too.
      