
        Robert S. Kane, a travel writer and creator of the ''A to Z'' and ''World at Its Best'' series of guides, died on Nov. 10 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Dr. Max Drechsler, his companion.
        Mr. Kane's guides were unusual in that they consisted of firsthand accounts rather than collections of reports by other writers, and they were well received as easygoing and readable.
        Reviewers found that he combined suggestions on hotels, restaurants and entertainment with evaluations of sights encountered along the way.
        Mr. Kane was among the first American travel writers who looked beyond the beaten track to focus on sub-Saharan Africa when it emerged from European colonial rule. The region formed the subject of Mr. Kane's first book, ''Africa A to Z: A Guide for Travelers -- Armchair and Actual'' (Doubleday, 1961; revised, 1972). This was followed by guides to South America, Asia, Canada, the South Pacific, Eastern Europe, Hawaii and various European countries and capital cities. Starting in 1980, publication of the series was taken over by Rand McNally.
        Mr. Kane began the subsequent series, ''World at Its Best,'' in 1985, with a vade mecum, or handbook, for Germany (revised edition, 1994). It was published by Passport Books, which currently has about 20 of his titles in print.
        In the 1990's, he began to concentrate on cities rather than countries, and his latest ''World at Its Best'' featured New York (1990), Washington (1991), Hong Kong (1992) and San Francisco (1994). He was also preparing revised editions of some earlier volumes.
        Over the years, Mr. Kane contributed many travel articles to periodicals in the United States and Canada, including The Globe and Mail of Toronto, The New York Times, Saturday Review and Travel & Leisure magazine.
        Mr. Kane, a native of Albany, graduated from Syracuse University in 1947 and worked as a reporter and travel editor for a number of publications for several years. He was a past national president and chairman of the Society of American Travel Writers.
      