
        Rodney O. Felder, who was the last president of Finch College in New York City and later led Upsala College in East Orange, N.J., died Jan. 19 in Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Montauk, L.I, until 1994.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease complicated by emphysema, said his brother, Harry L. Felder of Hyde Park.
        An economist, Dr. Felder headed two private colleges at a time when both were struggling financially. Despite efforts to save Finch, he presided over its closing in the mid-1970's, a decade in which about 150 private colleges shut down. He also faced declining enrollments and economic problems at Upsala, although it remained open until 1995, nine years after he retired.
        Dr. Felder was born in the small village of Redwood in the Thousand Islands region of upstate New York, where his father ran a general store. He attended the State University of New York at Albany, and graduated cum laude after a stint in the Army helping to process returning officers. He earned his doctorate at Teachers College at Columbia University.
        While at Columbia, he started teaching at Finch, the exclusive women's college on the Upper East Side. After serving as faculty chairman in 1958, he was named dean in 1960, vice president in 1969 and president in 1970.
        Finch was founded in 1900 as a two-year finishing school for women. Dr. Felder and others at the school maintained, however, that it had become as academically demanding as Barnard, Bryn Mawr and other colleges.
        It was probably best known as the college attended by President Richard M. Nixon's daughter Tricia. Other alumnae include the actresses Arlene Francis and Suzanne Pleshette. Grace Slick of the rock group Jefferson Airplane attended Finch briefly.
        When Dr. Felder became the school's president, Finch had fewer than 400 students and a debt that was half a million dollars and growing. Its tuition, room and board came to $4,100, making it one of the most expensive private colleges in the United States at the time. It had a wealthy student body -- some with fashionable addresses in the Caribbean or the south of France -- but little endowment.
        Dr. Felder, then a young-looking bachelor who often wore wide multicolored ties and double-breasted jackets, was known to the students and faculty as ''Mod Rod.''
        But if the president was mod, the college was not. Its status as a women's college, its Social Register cachet, its New York City location -- all assets in the past -- increasingly became liabilities in the post-Vietnam era. Despite efforts to raise private contributions, sell its art collection and seek Federal aid, the college remained in financial trouble, and Dr. Felder announced in 1975 that he was suspending operations.
        ''He did not see Finch's closing as inevitable, and he struggled to save it,'' said Sara Arthur, a friend, who was director of admissions at Finch. ''He looked for a merger partner and worked with the New York State Department of Education. He kept it chugging for longer than he probably should have.''
        It took him two years to sort through Finch's properties, including its noted art collection and the East Side town houses on East 78th Street where it had operated. Then, in 1977, he moved to Upsala College.
        Upsala was very different. It was established in 1893, a Lutheran college of Swedish origin. With 1,600 students, it was four times the size of Finch.
        But when Dr. Felder arrived, it was faced with the same soaring costs and shrinking pool of applicants that bedeviled many other private colleges in the 1970's.
        Dr. Felder was aware of these problems, but he hoped to devise a strategy to put Upsala on sounder footing. ''We are all attempting to work out new marketing methods in order to recruit more students,'' he said at the time.
        But when he retired in 1986, it was still struggling. And though it stayed open for nine more years, it, too, ultimately closed down.
        In addition to his brother, Dr. Felder, who never married, is survived by a niece and three nephews.
      