
        Dr. Norman H. Topping, who helped to develop the typhus vaccine and went on to lead the University of Southern California's transformation into a prominent research center, died on Tuesday. He was 89.
        Dr. Topping was president of the university from 1958 to 1970 and chancellor from 1971 to 1980. He then was chancellor emeritus until his death.
        The university had been known as a locally oriented campus with strong sports teams, but under his leadership, it gained respect for its academic program, particularly in science, medicine and engineering.
        Beginning in 1961, Dr. Topping led a drive to expand the university with a multimillion-dollar construction program and larger graduate program. Under his leadership, it was elected to the Association of American Universities, a body of 62 leading research universities in the United States and Canada.
        ''Norman Topping is the father of modern U.S.C.,'' said Steven B. Sample, the current president of the University of Southern California. ''Until he came, we essentially had no research.''
        Dr. Topping began his career as a researcher with the United States Public Health Service in Bethesda, Md. In the 1930's, he helped develop a vaccine against typhus that was used by millions of Allied soldiers in World War II. The vaccine is still in use. Typhus, which causes a high fever and is primarily transmitted by body lice and fleas, has killed thousands of people during epidemics since ancient times.
        Dr. Topping also helped develop the first effective treatment against Rocky Mountain spotted fever, a tick-borne disease native to the West.
        In 1948, Dr. Topping was appointed associate director of the National Institute of Health and Assistant Surgeon General of the United States.  From 1952 to 1958, he served as vice president for medical affairs at the University of Pennsylvania.
        After retiring as U.S.C. president, he served as president of the Los Angeles Transit Authority. He was also appointed to a civic board overseeing urban redevelopment in Los Angeles, an issue he became interested as part of U.S.C.'s effort to  improve the inner-city neighborhood around the campus.
        Dr. Topping was born on Jan. 12, 1908, in Flat River, Mo. He graduated from high school in Los Angeles and earned both his bachelor's and medical degrees at U.S.C.
        His wife, the former Helen Rummens, died in 1989. Dr. Topping is survived by a son, Brian B., of Baltimore; a daughter, Linda Topping Badgley of Isla de Culebra, P.R.; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      