
        Donald Bannard Goodall, a professor of art history, founding director of the University of Texas Art Museum in Austin and a specialist in Latin American art, died on Oct. 27 at his home in Glendale, Calif. He was 85.
        He was born in Los Angeles in 1912. He received an undergraduate degree in art from the University of Oregon and attended the Art Institute of Chicago, intending to become a painter. Deciding that his standards for painting were higher than his abilities, he switched to art history, receiving an M.A. from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. from Harvard University with a dissertation on Gaston Lachaise, the sculptor.
        In the late 1940's, a growing interest in Latin American art led Dr. Goodall to learn Spanish and Portuguese and begin traveling extensively throughout Central and South America, visiting museums and artists' studios wherever he could.
        Dr. Goodall was chairman of the department of art at the University of Texas in the mid-1940's, and he returned to this position in 1959, after serving as dean of the school of the Toledo Museum of Art and head of the department of fine arts at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles. He went back to Texas with the understanding that he would be able to establish a museum at the university, a task that he had accomplished by the early 1960's.
        Serving as the museum's director until 1978, Dr. Goodall oversaw the formation of a sprawling collection that included this country's largest array of contemporary Latin American art.
        He was able to persuade a number of important collectors to part with some important holdings, including James Michener (20th-century American art), C. R. Smith (19th-century American art) and Barbara Duncan (20th-century Latin American art).
        Dr. Goodall gave many contemporary Latin American artists their first exposure in the United States.
        He is survived by three daughters, Brooks Goodall Szolyga of Saratoga, Calif., Anne Goodall Wheeler of Medford, Ore., and Hollis Goodall of Glendale, Calif., and a brother, G. Robert Goodall of New York City.
      