
        Ismail Fahmy, a former Egyptian Foreign Minister who resigned in 1977 because he opposed President Anwar el-Sadat's visit to Jerusalem  died on Friday at a hospital in Cairo. He was 75 and lived in Cairo.
        He died after suffering a heart attack and had been hospitalized earlier because of a fall in his home, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Fahmy, a career diplomat, was appointed Foreign Minister after Egypt fought Israel in the 1973 Middle East war. He was also Deputy Prime Minister from 1975 to 1977.
        When he quit as Foreign Minister shortly before Mr. Sadat's dramatic visit, which led to the first peace treaty between Israel and an Arab nation, Mr. Fahmy announced with diplomatic vagueness that he was stepping down because he could ''no longer share in shouldering responsibilities in these conditions.''
        But in his book ''Negotiating for Peace in the Middle East'' (1983, Johns Hopkins) he wrote that he had been ''resolutely opposed'' to Mr. Sadat's journey.
        ''I believed it would harm Egypt's national security, damage our relations with the other Arab countries, and destroy our leadership of the Arab world,'' he added, contending that at the time, Mr. Sadat ''could not demonstrate any proof that the Israelis would respond to his move with comparable good will.''
        Because of the Camp David accords of 1978, Mr. Sadat and Menachem Begin, Israel's Prime Minister, shared the Nobel Peace Prize. Mr. Sadat was assassinated in 1981 by Muslim militants.
        Mr. Fahmy, was also Ambassador to Austria, Tourism Minister and then Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs from 1971 to 1973.
        In 1972, he caught the approving eye of Mr. Sadat at a meeting where Mr. Fahmy spoke strongly in favor of Egypt's taking military action against Israel, having closer ties with the United States and involving the United States and the Soviet Union in resolving the Middle East confrontation. Mr. Sadat's favor brought about his promotion to Foreign Minister.
        Mr. Sadat entrusted him with carrying out Egypt's turn away from the Soviet Union and toward the United States.
        Mr. Fahmy is survived by his wife and their two sons and daughter.
      