
        Nathan Gould, who built Women's American ORT into a force in American Jewish life and a mainstay of a worldwide network, died on Nov. 10 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y.
        ORT, an acronym of the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, was founded in 1880 in Russia to provide work skills for Jewish men and women. Its American women's affiliate dates to 1927.
        Mr. Gould joined the staff in 1950 and became the catalyst for its growth into an organization with a membership of more than 100,000 dues-paying women at its peak.
        He was hired as publicity director and was national executive director and executive vice president for 40 years. He oversaw the establishment of chapters in cities across the country.
        Today the membership supports some 800 technical, scientific and vocational schools in 60 countries, as well as in New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles. It provides, among other things, computer centers in Jewish day schools in North Miami Beach, Atlanta and Cleveland.
        In its earlier years, Women's American ORT concerned itself primarily with overseas programs, and its schools in the United States were mainly for refugees. Mr. Gould redirected that approach to include American children who were unable to find a niche in academic or vocational schools.
        He also led the organization's growth in Russia and its spread into Latin America and North Africa, home of what he called ''the forgotten Jews.'' As an example, he produced a film that dramatized the social isolation of Moroccan Jews. Such efforts brought many thousands of women into the organization and raised the financing that enabled ORT to expand its programs in Israel, Western Europe and North Africa.
        Mr. Gould, who was a native of Chicago, was also a member of the central board of the World ORT Union and took part in its meetings overseas.
        Mr. Gould is survived by his wife of 49 years, Ruth Davidson Gould; their sons, Andrew, of Columbus, Ohio, and Jonathan, of Brooklyn; a sister, Rae Chybic of Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      