
        James R. Mellow, a distinguished critic and author who wrote a trilogy  of biographies about writers of the Lost Generation, died on Saturday at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Augie Capaccio, his companion of 46 years. Mr. Mellow had a home in Clinton, Conn., as well as Rockport.
        In a life devoted to the arts, Mr. Mellow was an art critic for The New York Times and a book reviewer, but it was as a literary biographer that he achieved his greatest distinction.
        His first book, ''Charmed Circle: Gertrude Stein & Company'' (1974), firmly established his reputation. It was followed by ''Nathaniel Hawthorne in His Times,'' which won the American Book Award for biography for its paperback edition in 1983; ''Invented Lives: F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald'' (1984) and ''Hemingway: A Life Without Consequences'' (1992).
        In these biographies, he used his painterly eye and critical acumen to draw a full portrait both of his subject and the world in which the artist lived and worked. In the case of ''Charmed Circle,'' he had been an admirer of Stein and a collector of her work since his boyhood. As the title indicated, Mr. Mellow placed Stein in the context of her friends: Alice B. Toklas, Picasso, Matisse, Fitzgerald, Hemingway and others.
        Welcoming the reader to Stein's salon, he wrote that her Saturday evenings ''combined excited talk with an extraordinary glimpse of the most outrageous modern paintings.'' It was also, he said, ''democratic and congenial, an international meeting ground buzzing with transcontinental gossip.''
        In his Afterword to ''Charmed Circle,'' Mr. Mellow described his aim in writing the book, and, by inference, his subsequent biographies. He said he wanted ''to hear the voices'' and ''to re-create the texture of a life, a writer's daily life, out of memoirs, recollections and old letters that, if not always literature, still carried the fire of issues and ambitions that had not burned out completely.''
        At the same time, he confessed that there were limitations to his investigation: ''Writing about the past is like attempting to restore an old house: you can never bring it back to what it once was, but you can hope to make it livable again.''
        With his next biography, ''Nathaniel Hawthorne in His Times,'' he moved further back in America's literary past. Alfred Kazin called the work a ''charming and very full period piece.'' In keeping with the Mellow principle, Hawthorne shared the stage with Herman Melville and other contemporaries.
        With his biographies of the Fitzgeralds and Hemingway, Mr. Mellow returned to his favorite subject, modernism, and his favorite city, Paris. As he wrote in ''Charmed Circle,''  his original intention was to do ''a brief, brisk, semijournalistic account of the Fitzgeralds' marriage,'' but as he looked into the subject, he began to realize that their stories were also ''a form of private communication.'' Dealing with them personally soon led him to the conclusion that the Fitzgeralds were masters of invention, who put themselves into their stories and also acted them out in real life.
        In the end, he said, the book was ''about the personal cost of American success and American failure.'' Leon Edel wrote that the book, ''whatever its shortcomings, is a consistently readable and well-constructed biography.''
        Deirdre Bair wrote in The Times Book Review about the Hemingway book: ''Mr. Mellow's love affair with Paris is positively tactile. His knowledge of what happened culturally and intellectually during the 20's is so deep that even the most casual sentence about Hemingway's life conveys related knowledge of his surroundings.''
        As an art critic, Mr. Mellow wrote felicitously about the widest range of artists, but his principal areas of interest and expertise were the School of Paris and 19th-century American art. As a book critic, he specialized in reviewing biographies. He had nearly finished writing a biography of the photographer Walker Evans.
        Mr. Mellow was born in Gloucester, Mass. After two years in the Army Air Force, he attended Northwestern University. He graduated in 1950 and came to New York, where he wrote on art and literature for Commonweal, Art News and Arts Magazine. He subsequently became editor of Arts Magazine.
        He also wrote art criticism for The Times in the late 1960's and early 70's and many profiles, including one on Gertrude Stein, which, he said, ''launched me into what became a career in biography.'' He also wrote monographs about Picasso and Jim Dine. In 1983, he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship.
        In addition to Mr. Capaccio, he is survived by a brother, George, of Georgetown, Ky.
        For Mr. Mellow, accuracy and atmosphere were paramount. He once wrote that the biographer ''wants the life, against all the reasonable odds, to have the verisimilitude of a period photograph: the exact hour of a certain afternoon, the forgotten details in place, the casual smile or anxious look fixed forever in its particular time.'' He added, ''In other words, everything.''
      