
        Hastings Kamuzu Banda, a founding father in postcolonial Africa who led Malawi to independence in 1964 and then ruled it with a combination of caustic wit, eccentricity and cruelty for 30 years, died on Tuesday night in a hospital here.
        Dr. Banda died of respiratory failure. He had been at the Garden City Clinic here for a week with pneumonia and fever after being transferred from a Malawian hospital. There is no record of his birth date; the clinic gave his age as 99, but Government documents during his rule would have made him about 90.
        His longtime companion, Cecelia Kadzamira, was with him. She was giving updates on his condition, which apparently deteriorated after he seemed to be recovering two days ago. Many Malawians came to the hospital to wish him well, she said, and the Malawi Government had been very helpful.
        That was no doubt a pleasant surprise: Dr. Banda generated mixed feelings among Malawians.
        Many regarded him as the father of their nation, the former British Nyasaland, a Pennsylvania-sized splinter of land between Zambia and Mozambique. But after a revolt within his cabinet, he declared himself President for Life in 1971 and said his opponents would become ''food for crocodiles.''
        Hundreds were killed, tortured or forced into exile -- and yet Malawi, which describes itself in tourist brochures as ''the warm heart of Africa,'' managed to keep its reputation among Africans as a pocket of gentle-spirited people.
        Dr. Banda was perhaps the most idiosyncratic of the ''big men'' who led their countries out of colonialism. He held degrees from American and Scottish universities and his London medical offices became a sort of anticolonialist salon frequented by Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya and Kwame Nkrumah of the Gold Coast (now Ghana).
        But once in power, Dr. Banda simultaneously affected the lion-tail fly whisk of an African king, the dark suits and homburgs of a British businessman and the arms of a Scottish baron. He refused to make speeches in African languages and established a school modeled on Eton in his birthplace, Mtunthama, where penniless students were taught Latin, Greek and African history from the British point of view. He hired only white foreigners to teach at the school and to run the ministries and businesses that built his personal fortune.
        Under his rule, Malawi spurned black nationalist movements and was the only African nation with diplomatic ties to apartheid South Africa and to Israel. He was the darling of cold warriors and big business, and amassed power in his own hands, keeping the Ministries of Justice, Foreign Affairs, Agriculture and Public works to himself, as well as the trusteeship of the state monopolies in tobacco farming, factories, oil and banking.
        He was also the rector of the state university and the dominant figure in the local Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
        He never married and said he had no children, but lived with Miss Kadzamira, his ''official hostess,'' for 30 years. Victorian in his demands on public morality, he banned women from wearing pants or miniskirts. Long-haired male tourists arriving in Malawi either submitted to shearing by the airport barber or went home.
        He also banned television, though he watched it himself by satellite, and prevented the Simon and Garfunkel song ''Cecelia'' from being played on local radio, considering it an affront to his consort. He referred to Malawi's 10 million citizens as ''my children'' and was said to be deeply embittered when they turned him out in 1994.
        There was always a Potemkin-village quality about his reign. Dr. Banda proudly claimed that Malawi was self-sufficient in food, but an annual ritual -- his visit to a field bursting with grain -- was carefully stage-managed in special fields seeded with hybrid plants artificially watered and fertilized. In fact, malnutrition was widespread by the late 1980's, with one child in five dying died before the age of 5.
        Such extraordinarily suffering was a result partly of poor harvests, and partly of Government demands that peasants grow tobacco and other crops for export. One year, protesting farmers chopped down the model field he was to visit. Dr. Banda simply went to another.
        His sleek capital, Lilongwe, was built with South African money and South Africa underwrote and trained the red-shirted Young Pioneers, a paramilitary youth group that spied on citizens and terrorized dissidents. And in one of the world's smallest and poorest nations, where the per-capita income was $200 a year, Dr. Banda kept five residences, a fleet of British luxury cars and a private jet.
        Dr. Banda was born near the turn of the century of Chewa parents who named him Kamuzu -- Little Root -- because a shaman's root medicine apparently cured his mother's barrenness. He chose the name Hastings later, after a missionary he admired.
        His first education was at a Church of Scotland mission, but he left at a young age to run away to South Africa. Malawian legend has it that he walked the 1,000 miles, but took two years because he stopped to work as a hospital orderely and a water-pumper in a mine.
        After eight years as a clerk at a Johannesburg gold mine, studying at night, he won help from a Methodist bishop to come to the United States. He studied at the Wilberforce Institute in Xenia, Ohio, and at Indiana University before becoming the only black to graduate from the University of Chicago in 1931.
        He received an M.D. from Meharry Medical College in Nashville, then moved to Britain to train at the Universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh and study tropical medicine in Liverpool.
        He prospered as a physician in suburban London, but in 1953, furious that Britain had allowed the establishment of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland instead of taking power away from white expatriates, he moved to the Gold Coast, now Ghana, and railed against British treachery. Despite their fear of his firebrand tendencies, the colonial authorities let him return in 1958 to lead the Nyasaland African Congress.
        He had apparently forgotten his native tongue, but got an uproarious welcome when he told his audience in English, borrowing from Patrick Henry, ''In Nyasaland, we mean to be masters. And if that is treason, make the most of it.''
        Riots broke out, and he spent a year in prison in Rhodesia before being released to lead his new Malawi Congress party to victory in a 1961 election. He told white settlers to accept majority rule ''or pack up.'' Sixty-five years of British rule ended in 1963 and the Federation dissolved in 1964, and he became Prime Minister of a nation that adopted a red, black and green flag with a rising sun as its symbol.
        He took the presidency when Malawi became a Republic in 1966. Over the years, his rule became more idiosyncratic and more vicious. Former allies died in jail and rioters died in the streets. Toward the end, he suffered from senility, had brain surgery in 1993 and seemed very dependent on Miss Kadzamira and her uncle, John Tembo, the Minister of State.
        In 1994, under pressure from Western nations who cut off aid to enforce demands for democratic reforms, he called elections. He was defeated by Bakili Muluzi, a former protege who had resigned from the Cabinet in 1982 suspecting he was about to be killed. His replacement, Mr. Muluzi said, was murdered.
        After Dr. Banda was removed, he was tried for the 1983 murder of three Cabinet minsters and a Member of Parliament who were beaten to death with crowbars and hammers by the police and stuffed into a blue Peugot that was then pushed over a cliff in a staged accident. He was excused from court because of sickness, and ultimately was acquitted.
        The Malawi Government said today that Dr. Banda would be given a state funeral on Dec. 3 with a 19-gun salute and military honors. He is to lie in state at New State House in Lilongwe beginning on Friday.
      