
        Buck Leonard, regarded as the greatest first baseman in the history of the Negro leagues, deprived of a chance to play major league baseball but a Hall of Famer nonetheless,  died Thursday at Nash General Hospital in his hometown of Rocky Mount, N.C. He was 90.
        A power-hitting left-handed batter and a smooth fielder, Leonard teamed with Josh Gibson, the Negro leagues' most fearsome slugger, to bring pennant after pennant to the Pittsburgh-based Homestead Grays. Starring for the Grays from 1934 to 1950, Leonard played in 12 East-West All-Star Games, and while accurate statistics for the Negro leagues are elusive, by all accounts he batted well over .300 throughout his career.
        When Jackie Robinson broke the modern color barrier in major league baseball in 1947, Leonard was too old for the majors. But when baseball sought to make amends for past discrimination by voting stars of the Negro leagues into the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., Leonard was in the forefront. The legendary pitcher Satchel Paige was voted to the Hall by a special committee in 1971, followed by Leonard and Gibson (who died in 1947) a year later.
        Leonard was known in his heyday as ''the black Lou Gehrig.''
        But that was not exactly the way the Hall of Famer and onetime Negro leagues star Monte Irvin saw it.
        ''Buck Leonard was the equal of any first baseman who ever lived,'' Irvin once said. ''If he'd gotten the chance to play in the major leagues, they might have called Lou Gehrig the white Buck Leonard.''
        The star Negro leagues pitcher Dave Barnhill, recalling duels with Leonard, was graphic: ''You could put a fastball in a shotgun and you couldn't shoot it by him.''
        Walter Fenner Leonard was born on Sept. 8, 1907, in Rocky Mount. He was one of six children, a son of a railroad fireman. He got his nickname from a brother who could not pronounce Buddy, his parents' pet name for Walter.
        His father died when he was 11, and soon after that he went to work, making stockings in a hosiery mill. Forced to quit school after the eighth grade -- there was no local high school for blacks, and the family could not afford to send him out of town -- he got a laborer's job with the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad. But  he found time for sandlot baseball.
        When he was 17, using an employee railroad pass to pay for most of the trip, he traveled to Griffith Stadium in Washington to see the Yankees and his favorite player, Gehrig, play the Senators.
        ''I later patterned myself after Gehrig in batting, fielding and everything else,'' he would recall.
        Leonard broke into big-time semipro baseball in 1933, first with the Baltimore Stars and then the Brooklyn Royal Giants. After that season, Smokey Joe Williams, a onetime pitcher with the Homestead Grays, recommended him to the team's owner, Cumberland Posey.
        Through the 1930's and 1940's, Leonard would star for the Grays, who were based in an old steel town outside Pittsburgh but did not have a ball park there. They played their big home games at the Pittsburgh Pirates' Forbes Field and the Senators' Griffith Stadium when they were not  traveling from tank towns to big cities in their bus, sometimes playing three games in one day. On the Fourth of July, however, the Grays were always close to home, taking on the Pittsburgh Crawfords, their storied rivals.
        The Grays won nine consecutive Negro National League pennants -- from 1937 to 1945 -- with Leonard and Gibson hammering opposing pitchers, a one-two power punch as formidable as any in baseball between the eras of Gehrig-Ruth and Maris-Mantle.
        Leonard could point to a 42-home run season in 1942, but batting average and home run totals were incomplete because the Negro leagues did not keep accurate statistics. The games drew little attention, meanwhile, outside the black news media.
        ''Some white newspapers told us they would run the scores in their paper if we mailed the scores in to them every night,'' Leonard once said. ''But sometimes we weren't near a mailbox, so that idea never really worked out.''
        And in a segregated America, finding a decent place to stay overnight and obtaining a good meal were not easy.
        In his autobiography ''Buck Leonard: The Black Lou Gehrig'' (Carroll & Graf, 1995), Leonard recalled one particular night.
        ''We'd come north from Florida and stopped in New Orleans at the Patterson Hotel. We used to call it a chinch parlor. A chinch is what we called bedbugs. As soon as the light would go out there, the chinches would come out. We used to get newspapers out and spread them on the bed and sleep on top of them. The bedbugs couldn't crawl up on the paper. Then we'd leave the lights on all night.''
        One summer during the World War II years, there was a glimmer of interest from the major leagues. Clark Griffith, the owner of the Senators, called Leonard and Gibson to his office. Leonard recalled that Griffith told them: ''We have seen some of you fellows play and we'd like to have you in the major leagues with us. But nobody wants to be the first one to hire black ballplayers.''
        They never heard from Griffith again, and by October 1945, when Branch Rickey signed Jackie Robinson to a minor league contract with the Dodger organization, Leonard was 38.
        He made his biggest salary in 1948 -- $10,000 in summer and winter ball -- and stayed with the Grays until the team disbanded after the 1950 season, the Negro leagues dying with the color barrier having been broken. He then played baseball in Mexico. In 1952, Bill Veeck, the owner of the St. Louis Browns, invited Leonard to spring training, but Leonard turned him down, realizing that his time had passed. In 1953, he played briefly with the Portsmouth, Va., team of the Piedmont League -- as a favor to its owner, who was fighting for a pennant -- and continued in Mexican ball until retiring in 1955 at age 48.
        Leonard returned to his hometown, worked as a truant officer, sold  real estate and then became an executive with the Rocky Mount team in the Carolina League.
        He is survived by his wife, Lugenia; a stepson, Thomas Fox; three stepdaughters, Floross Walston, Rose Hunter and Barbara Fox, and a sister, Lena Cox. His first wife, Sarah, died in 1966.
        On Aug. 7, 1972, Buck Leonard was inducted into the Hall of Fame.
        ''We in the Negro leagues felt like we were contributing something to baseball, too, when we were playing,'' he said then. ''We played with a round ball and we played with a round bat. And we wore baseball uniforms and we thought that we were making a contribution to baseball. We loved the game and we liked to play it.
        ''But we thought that we should have and could have made the major leagues, and all of us would have desired to play in the major leagues because we felt and we knew that that was the greatest game.''
        Leonard never expressed any bitterness, but there was a deep disappointment.
        Back in the late 1940's, as Jackie Robinson came up with the Dodgers an instant star, and Roy Campanella and Don Newcombe arrived in Brooklyn soon thereafter, Leonard was playing his last days in the dying Negro leagues.
        A Dodger scout named Elwood Parsons recalled a conversation he had with Leonard.
        ''I was talking about Robinson, Campy and Newk making it with Brooklyn,'' Parsons remembered. ''I'll never forget Buck's eyes filling with tears when he said, 'But it's too late for me.' ''
      