
        Stanton L. Catlin, an art historian who did pioneering work in the study and documentation of modern Mexican mural painting, died on Wednesday at his home in Fayetteville, N.Y. He was 82.
        Mr. Catlin, who organized the influential exhibition ''Art of Latin America Since Independence'' at the Yale University Art Gallery in 1966,  made his first research trip to Mexico in 1939 on a graduate fellowship to study the origins and development of contemporary mural painting. In 1941, he assisted in sending a series of exhibitions of contemporary United States art, organized by the Museum of Modern Art in New York, to Central and South America. While in Latin America, he met the painters Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo and Jose Clemente Orozco, about whose work he later wrote. He served as consultant for the Detroit Institute of Art Diego Rivera 1986 retrospective.
        In 1964, Mr. Catlin shared a Grammy Award for an essay on mural painting that he had written to accompany a Columbia Records Legacy Collection recording of Mexican music. Beginning in 1994, he worked with the Mexican National University on a long-term project to document the history of mural painting in Mexico. Shortly before his death, he completed his section of the report, which records the locations of 150 Mexican murals in the United States.
        Mr. Catlin graduated from Oberlin College in 1937 and received a master's degree from the New York University Institute of Fine Arts in 1967. From 1956 to 1958, he was curator of American art at the Minneapolis Art Institute. He was assistant director of the Yale University Art Gallery from 1958 to 1967, then the first director of the Art Gallery of the Center for Inter-American Relations, now Americas Society, in New York City. In 1974, he joined the Syracuse University faculty as professor of museum studies and art history and director of the university's art galleries. He was named professor emeritus in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth Phelps Catlin; a brother, Allen Burdette Catlin of Fullerton, Calif.; a son, William, of St. Paul; a daughter, Katharine Catlin Smith of Wilton, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      