
        Richard R. Ruopp, a president emeritus of Bank Street College who adapted up-to-date technologies for the classroom, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Ruopp was the fourth president of Bank Street College of Education, from 1979 to 1988, and oversaw the creation of its Center for Children and Technology. The college, founded in 1916 and now located on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, combines a leading graduate institution with a demonstration school for children through the eighth grade that helps train teachers.
        It also conducts extensive research in child development and policy issues, and devises models for social and educational programs.
        A specialist in early childhood education and day care, Dr. Ruopp was responsible for developing models that were published by the college and are used widely in school systems today. He helped expand Bank Street's pioneering role in using interactive technologies like microcomputers and videodisks.
        In 1980, he began consulting for Technical Education Research Centers of Cambridge, which developed the National Geographic Kids Network, Star Schools, and similar microcomputer and telecommunications projects to enhance science curriculums. He was the interim head there in 1989.
        Until four years ago he was the chief investigator for the centers' Labnet Project in telecommunications, which links science teachers at all levels coast to coast. Most recently he was an editor and writer of ''Labnet: Toward a Community of Practice'' (Erlbaum, 1993).
        In the 1990's, after his illness was diagnosed, Dr. Ruopp lost his ability to speak but not his will to communicate his thoughts on learning technology. He then began to address groups using a miniaturized laptop computer equipped with a speech-output software package and a speech synthesizer.
        With this device, the audience heard a computer voicing the words he typed into it. Not only did he convey his ideas to the audience that way, he continued to field questions afterward.
        At Bank Street, Dr. Ruopp's legacy included ''Bank Street Writer'' and ''The Voyage of the Mimi I & II.'' The former, developed in 1983, was the first commercially available word-processing computer program designed especially for children. It became a best seller.
        ''Mimi,'' an interactive video program, was a 1984 television series for intermediate grades broadcast on PBS, where it is still shown occasionally. Its hero was a humpback whale who gave life to an integrated science-math curriculum, and it came to be used in classrooms nationwide.
        Richard Ruopp was born in Boston and graduated summa cum laude in literature and history from Iowa Wesleyan College in 1954. He earned an M.S. degree in theology at Boston University in 1957 and a Ph.D. at Harvard University's Graduate School of Education in 1972, after two years of postgraduate research in the philosophy and psychology of religion at Mansfield College, Oxford University.
        Early in his career he served as a Congregational minister in England, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, where he taught at the newly founded Franconia College. He became its dean of faculty in 1964 and the following year, at age 32, Franconia's president, a post he held through 1968.
        Before taking the helm at Bank Street, he worked for Abt Associates in Cambridge, a private social science research firm.
        He worked on numerous study reports and was co-author of ''Day Care Guide for Administrators, Teachers and Parents'' (M.I.T., 1973), and ''Children at the Center: Final Report of the National Day Care Study'' (Abt, 1979). He also contributed ''Death in a Small College,'' about his experience at Franconia, to ''Five Experimental Colleges,'' published by Harper & Row in 1973.
        Dr. Ruopp is survived by his wife, Patricia Epworth Ruopp, a former Bank Street vice president for finance and administration; three daughters from a previous marriage, Wendy, of Milton, Vt., Kathy, of Brooklyn, and Heather, of Watertown, Mass.; two stepdaughters, Angela Greene of Irvington, N.Y., and Priscilla Greene of Manhattan; a brother, Phillips, of Green Valley, Ariz., and three grandchildren. His earlier marriage to Miriam Ruopp, of Belmont, Mass., ended in divorce.
      