
        Giorgio Strehler, the grand master of Italian theater and one of the world's boldest and most innovative directors, died on Thursday at his home in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, reported The Associated Press.
        In a career of more than 50 years, Mr. Strehler was, by his own description, ''a fanatic of theater.'' As the co-founder and artistic director of the Piccolo Teatro in Milan, he was celebrated for re-envisioning plays by Shakespeare, Goethe, Chekhov, Brecht, Goldoni and Pirandello as well as for his productions of operas by Mozart, Verdi and others.
        Mr. Strehler's coffin lay in state onstage at the Piccolo Teatro yesterday. President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro of Italy said the director's death ''robbed Italy and the world of a great artistic and humane personality who honored the country.''
        Outspoken and strong-willed, Mr. Strehler directed -- and he talked --  with a dramatic self-assurance. He was an intellectual and a theorist but also a practical man of theater. Both an actor and director, he instilled his productions with a visual inventiveness and a deeply probing perceptiveness. Along with Peter Brook, Jerzy Grotowski and Ingmar Bergman, he was acclaimed as one of the most influential of international directors, but he remained less well known in the United States.
        In 1984, he brought his stunning version of ''The Tempest'' to Summerfare in Purchase, N.Y. During that production, Mr. Strehler staged the most spectacular of storms at sea. At the end, when Prospero threw away his wand, the entire set collapsed to reveal the illusion behind the reality, then Prospero waved his hand and just as magically the parts of the set pulled themselves together and the scene recreated itself. In 1995, he directed Pirandello's unfinished play, ''The Mountain Giants,'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. That was his first production in New York since 1960. But during those intervening years, his reputation spread throughout Europe.
        He directed plays with an epic sweep, but at heart he was a humanist who focused on individuals and saw theater as a kind of alarm bell, a way to alert people to life and to the art of living. In an interview with The New York Times in 1995 he explained what he thought of as his contribution: ''It is not a theoretical lesson but a human idea of theater, which is a poetic art, the art of equilibrium, the metaphor of our life.'' He added that theater was essential: ''If life exists, theater exists. Personally, I'm convinced that if theater didn't exist, then life wouldn't exist, either.''
        Mr. Strehler's 1974 collection of essays was entitled ''Per un Teatro Umano.'' David L. Hirst, author of a critical book about the director's career, said the word ''umano,'' which means human, has ''all the implications of human, humane and humanitarian with all their concomitant social and political overtones.''
        The director was himself extremely active in Italian political life, as a member of both the European parliament and the Italian Senate.
        With his flowing white hair, piercing eyes and leonine appearance, Mr. Strehler was a highly theatricalized figure. He perhaps could have been a matinee idol or at least a movie actor, and he regretted not having a career as a film director. Instead he devoted himself to theater. Having started as an actor in 1940, he returned to acting in 1987, in a characteristically ambitious manner. In his monumental production of Goethe's ''Faust'' -- four plays, each three hours long -- he played the title role. This was, he said, ''the most difficult thing I've ever done in my life.''
        He said in The Times that he chose to portray Faust rather than Mephistopheles because he considered himself to be ''a Faustian man.'' He said: ''That is, I am a man who always tries to get one step further, to stretch, to force oneself to arrive at something. The quest is for the absolute. I am a man who looks for a utopia. And I will die that way.''
        Mr. Strehler was born in the village of Barcola in Trieste. His father died when he was 3, and within several years, his mother, a concert violinist, moved with her son to Milan. At 15, he saw a play by Goldoni and was, he said, ''thunderstruck by the theater, like St. Paul on the road to Damascus.''
        He studied acting at the Accademia dei Filodrammatici. In 1943, he  made his debut as a director with three one-act plays by Pirandello. He served in the Italian army during World War II and after Italy surrendered, he was active in the Resistance movement, plotting against the Germans. After the war, and the drama critic Paolo Grassi, both firm anti-fascists and committed men of the theater, directed plays and in 1947, they founded the Piccolo Teatro in an abandoned movie theater in Milan.
        As the two men walked into the unused building, a ray of sunlight struck the stage. As Mr. Strehler recalled, ''It was just as though a spotlight had been switched on almost by magic and a shaft of light was consciously trying to point out the stage: this stage. An invitation? A provocation?'' As it turned out, it was both. In their manifesto, the directors made it clear that they wanted a populist theater: ''an art theater for everybody.'' Under the leadership of Mr. Strehler and Mr. Grassi, the Piccolo Teatro became of one Italy's premiere theaters and a permanent center where artists could meet and exchange ideas. Mr. Grassi, who was later the general manager of La Scala, died in 1981. For six years, Mr. Strehler was the director of the Theatre de L'Europe in Paris.
        At the Piccolo Teatro and as an independent director, he moved restlessly from project to project, staging more than 250 productions. He compared himself to a scientist: ''If you ask a true scientist if he is satisfied with an experiment that went well, he will say he is very happy with what he has discovered but now he understands that he has to do another experiment.'' For him, the scientist was ''a perfect example of  dissatisfaction.'' Similarly, for him a production was never finished.
        Among his influences were Louis Jouvet, Jacques Copeau and Brecht and, more recently, Peter Brook, whose effect was, he said, intuitive. While Mr. Brook stressed methods of physical and linguistic expressiveness, Mr. Strehler emphasized his concern for the epic and the psychological. For Mr. Strehler, he and Mr. Brook were fellow maestros.
        Last year, after years of conflict with Milan officials, Mr. Strehler resigned as the head of the Piccolo Teatro. But in September he returned to his post. This month he was in rehearsal with ''Cosi Fan Tutte,'' scheduled for a January opening.
        He is survived by his second wife, the German actress, Andrea Jonasson, who has appeared in his plays.
        Although he remained a director of unquestioned virtuosity, he was very clear about his role as an interpretive artist. As he said in 1995, ''There are two categories of artists: the artists of absolute creation and those who create upon the creation of others. As interpreters we are instruments. Our job is to understand what these great absolute artists have created and to communicate that to a public. The greatest director of 'Don Giovanni' will never be the equal of Mozart.'' That statement was followed by a warning: ''There is a diabolical danger in the craft of interpretation, to believe that we are as capable, or even better than Mozart or Shakespeare.''
        As a director, Mr. Strehler was more than an interpreter. He was a creative conduit, continually exploring and reimagining great works of art for new generations of theatergoers.
      