
        Pierre Peladeau, the Quebec tabloid publisher who read Balzac and revered Beethoven while building one of the most powerful communications empires in Canada, died on Wednesday at Hotel-Dieu Hospital in Montreal. He was 72.
        Mr. Peladeau had been in a coma since suffering a heart attack Dec. 2. When doctors confirmed on Monday that Mr. Peladeau's condition was deteriorating, a new management team was put in place to run Quebecor Inc., his holding company, which had $6.3 billion (Canadian), or $4.3 billion (United States), in revenue last year.
        Among Quebecor's holdings are Le Journal de Montreal, the third-largest newspaper in Canada and the biggest French newspaper in Quebec, along with three other newspapers in Canada; Quebecor Printing, the second-largest commercial printer in North America; several magazines, a multimedia company and Donohue Inc., a large newsprint manufacturer.
        In 1977 a brash Mr. Peladeau ventured unsuccessfully into United States journalism, founding a daily tabloid heavy with sports called The Philadelphia Journal. The paper quit publishing in 1981, and a chastened Mr. Peladeau often said in later years that the $14 million (United States) he lost in Philadelphia earned him ''the most expensive M.B.A. in the United States.''
        The contrast between Mr. Peladeau's sophisticated cultural preferences and sex-and-sports-filled newspapers was just one of the many contradictions that made him one of Canada's most colorful entrepreneurs.
        He strongly supported Quebec sovereignty but in 1987 he was chairman of a committee that ran Montreal's Canada Day festivities. In Quebec he became a beloved symbol of French-Canadian resourcefulness.
        The Premier of Quebec, Lucien Bouchard, appeared on television Christmas morning to laud Mr. Peladeau as a man who ''wasn't afraid to say and do anything.''
        That ability, however, sometimes landed Mr. Peladeau in controversy.
        He caused a furor in 1990 when he was quoted in l'Actualite magazine saying that Jews ''take up too much space'' in Quebec. He explained later that he was referring to Jewish designers who dominated the fashion pages of Montreal newspapers. He later issued a statement of regret for having offended Jews.
        A year earlier, he was quoted as saying that women had no place in the corporate board room because ''they seduce too much.'' And he infuriated Montreal's English-speaking community by boasting that he spoke English only when he could make money by doing so.
        He spoke openly about his problems with depression and alcohol, telling one interviewer earlier this year that his proudest achievement was ''that I stopped drinking and changed the way I live.'' He was equally candid about his pursuit of beautiful women, telling a reporter with The Globe and Mail of Toronto in 1987, ''I've had all the women I wanted, when I wanted them.''
        Mr. Peladeau was married twice. His first wife, Raymonde Chopin, died in 1976. They had four children, Erik, Isabelle, Pierre-Karl and Anne-Marie. He and his second wife, Line Parisien, had two children, Simon-Pierre and Esther. That marriage ended in separation.
        A long-term relationship with Manon Blanchette, by whom he had a son, Jean, 6, ended before his death.
        Pierre Peladeau was born in Montreal on April 11, 1925, one of seven children. His father, Henri, had made, and lost, a fortune in the timber business.
        After attending an exclusive finishing school, Mr. Peladeau studied philosophy at the University of Montreal and law at McGill University. But as he prepared to take his bar exam in 1950, a local weekly newspaper, Le Journal de Rosemont, became available. His mother, Elmire, from whom he said he inherited his drive, lent him $1,500 to buy the newspaper.
        He added more newspapers, and later printing presses. A 1964 strike at La Presse, then Montreal's largest French newspaper, gave him the opportunity to start Le Journal de Montreal.
        In 1988, Mr. Peladeau and Robert Maxwell, the British publisher, established The Daily News of Montreal. It closed less than two years later.
        Mr. Peladeau became an important patron of the arts in Quebec, and helped build the Pierre Peladeau Center on the University of Quebec campus in Montreal.
        He often worked with classical music playing in the background, and once told an interviewer that when he died, he wanted Beethoven's ''Emperor'' concerto played while his ashes were spread over his estate in Sainte Adele, north of Montreal.
        Andre Gingras, a vice president of Le Journal de Montreal, said today that a private memorial ceremony for 200 guests would be held on Monday at the Pavillion des Arts, in Sainte Adele. Mr. Gingras said Mr. Peladeau had been cremated and that the ''Emperor'' concerto would be played at the ceremony.
      