
        Abram J. Jaffe, a social scientist and labor expert at Columbia University who studied the economic conditions of migrants, working women and retirees, died on Monday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Leonia, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his family said.
        A. J. Jaffe, as his seven books identified him, worked as a statistician, employment expert and anthropologist. He directed the Manpower and Population Program of Columbia's Bureau of Applied Research for 26 years. He retired in 1979 but continued as a senior research associate in business and anthropology.
        At age 80, with W. C. Sperber, he published the results of a lifelong interest in early human migrations, ''The First Immigrants From Asia: A Population History of the North American Indians'' (Plenum, 1992). Also in print is his ''Handbook of Statistical Methods for Demographers'' (1977). With Herbert F. Spirer, he wrote ''Misused Statistics: Straight Talk for Twisted Numbers'' (1986). It told general readers and journalists how to find the facts hidden in statistics presented by advocates of various causes.
        Dr. Jaffe was born in Chelsea, Mass. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in sociology from the University of Chicago. In the 1940's, he surveyed troop morale for the War Department and taught foreign nationals at the Census Bureau how to apply its methods in their own countries.
        He joined the Columbia faculty in 1950, where he produced reports on such diverse matters as productivity, employment patterns of college graduates and the absorption of Hispanic-American migrants.
        He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and for many years edited The New York Statistician, published by the state chapter of the American Statistical Association.
        Dr. Jaffe is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Betty Gomberg; two daughters, Anne Jaffe and Barbara Rios, both of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      