
        Sebastian Arcos Bergnes, a prominent Cuban dissident and human rights campaigner who fought the dictatorships of Fidel Castro and Fulgencio Batista, died here on Monday night. He was 65 and had lived in Havana until coming to Miami two years ago for medical treatment.
        Relatives said the cause of death was cancer of the rectum. Dr. Arcos developed the disease after he was imprisoned in Cuba in 1992, but complained that he was denied medicine and treatment before being released for humanitarian reasons and allowed to travel to the United States.
        A dentist by training, Dr. Arcos was vice president of the Committee for Human Rights in Cuba, which he helped found in 1981. His older brother Gustavo, who was a comrade of Mr. Castro in the 1953 attack that began the Cuban leader's career as a guerrilla, is president of the group.
        Dr. Arcos came from a large family with a long tradition of political involvement. During the 1950's, one older brother was killed and another maimed in the guerrilla struggle against the Batista dictatorship, and Dr. Arcos himself was captured and imprisoned for nearly two years, gaining his freedom only after Mr. Castro took power in 1959.
        In the early years of the Cuban revolution, Dr. Arcos supported Mr. Castro and held various posts. But he renounced his Communist Party membership in the late 1960's after his brother Gustavo was arrested for criticizing the totalitarian direction Mr. Castro had taken, and eventually Dr. Arcos began to compile records of human rights violations.
        Dr. Arcos was arrested in 1981 and spent nearly seven years in prison. He was arrested again in 1992, on charges of disseminating ''enemy propaganda,'' and was reported by other dissidents to have rejected a Government offer of an early release if he would agree to leave Cuba, insisting that he preferred to remain and resist.
        After Dr. Arcos was freed from prison for health reasons in May 1995, he sought medical treatment in Havana under a false name. A doctor who later agreed to treat him under his real name was soon dismissed for ''political and ideological incompatibility with the national health system,'' and Dr. Arcos reluctantly agreed to come to the United States for treatment.
        ''They followed a policy of negligence,'' Dr. Arcos said of his captors in a 1995 interview. ''But the deliberate manipulation of health care for political purposes is only one of a multitude of human rights violations of which the Cuban Government is guilty.''
        In a statement this week, President Clinton praised Dr. Arcos as ''a courageous and tireless activist for human rights, democracy and freedom in Cuba,'' and ''an example to us all'' who had ''blazed a trail which has inspired many others who cherish individual liberties.''
        In Havana, Dr. Arcos's fellow dissidents said his death was a blow to their movement. ''His loss is irreplacable,'' Elizardo Sanchez Santa Cruz, secretary general of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation, said.
        Dr. Arcos is survived by two children, Sebastian and Maria Rosa, both of Miami, and his companion in Havana, Mayra Gonzalez. At his request, his family said, no public funeral is to be held ''until his ashes can be returned to a free and democratic Cuba.''
      