
        Lieut. Gen. Thomas Samuel Moorman, an expert in meteorology who navigated the Air Force Academy through a squall of ethical lapses as its longest-serving superintendent in the 1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement residence in Sterling, Va. He was 87 and had moved to Virginia from Colorado in July.
        Serving as superintendent from mid-1965 until he retired from the Air Force in 1970 after 37 years of service, General Moorman restored credibility to the academy in Colorado Springs after some of the worst outbreaks of cheating.
        Before General Moorman came to command the academy he gained a reputation as one of the most knowledgeable weathermen in the United States.
        He trained in meteorology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and after World War II headed the Air Force Weather Service as its chief meteorologist, observer and forecaster.
        Thomas Moorman Jr. was born at the Presidio in Monterey, Calif. He graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1933 and entered the Air Corps flight training school at Randolph Field in Texas to earn his pilot wings in 1934.
        He started a 20-year meteorologist's career, taking a master's degree at the California Institute of Technology and doing postgraduate work at M.I.T. He also graduated from the Air Command and General Staff School and the Air War College. During the war he served as a weather officer and chief climatologist based in Washington and England.
        He commanded the weather watchers of the Ninth Air Force in Europe and after World War II became deputy chief of staff for Air Weather Service. All the while he advanced through the ranks, becoming a brigadier in 1952 and adding his third star in 1961.
        During his stint as Air Weather Service Commander in the 1950's he was in charge of the entire environmental support operations worldwide for the Army and Air Force. This included observation stations and forecast centers at all levels, as well as weather reconnaissance and atmospheric sampling.
        He had completed a four-year stint with Pacific Air Forces in Hawaii when he was assigned to the Air Force Academy in the wake of an earlier cheating scandal. There he sat in on classroom sessions and faculty meetings, and made it his business to know every cadet on campus by name.
        When cheating once again became an issue in 1967, he, a stickler for the honor code, flew to Washington and persuaded his superiors to let the cadets themselves handle the affair this time. Two years before, officers from all over the country had been flown in to investigate because criminal acts beyond cheating were involved.
        Under his guidance, the academy rode out the storm and reclaimed its good name.
        General Moorman won some 20 decorations, including the Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit with two Oak Leaf Clusters, Bronze Star and Air Medal, along with medals from France and Belgium.
        He is survived by two daughters, Margaret M. Demchuk of Virginia Beach, Va., and Allyn M. Sullivan of Pasadena, Calif.; two sons, Thomas S. 3d, himself a retired Air Force general, and Robert W., both of Alexandria, Va., and eight grandchildren. His wife, Atha Gullion Moorman, died in 1989 after 53 years of marriage.
        Correction:  January 6, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary of Lieut. Gen. Thomas Samuel Moorman on Dec. 28 referred incorrectly in some copies to the number of stars he earned. He added his third star in 1961, not his fourth.
      