
        William Pendleton House, a guardian of the New Hampshire woods who scaled the world's most daunting peaks decades before it became fashionable, died last Thursday at Monadnock Community Hospital in Peterborough, N.H. He was 84 and lived in Harrisville, N.H.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Robert H. Bates, a fellow mountaineer.
        Mr. House left his mark in the Himalayas on K2, the second-highest mountain on earth, and Mount Waddington in British Columbia, which had been considered unconquerable. He discovered his passion for the ascent in college and pursued it into the 1960's, when the demands of his forestry business in Chesham put a stop to his summer explorations.
        Mr. House and a colleague, Fritz H. Wiessner, entered the annals of North American mountaineering in 1936 when they climbed the main peak of Mount Waddington, king of the Coast Range northwest of Vancouver. Theirs was the 17th assault on the mountain's 13,260 feet of perilous rock and ice, which just two days before had proved too much for a another team.
        In view of the mountain's reputation and 16 failed attempts to climb it, Mr. Wiessner, a 43-year-old chemist, and Mr. House, a forestry student at Yale, decided that only a fast-moving party of two could make it to the top. Leaving the rest of their party behind, they inched their way past the glacier that clung to a nearly vertical face, completed their quest and were back at their camp in a little more than 24 hours.
        Mr. House and Mr. Bates, a veteran of many Alaskan climbs, took part in the American Karakoram Expedition of 1938 that tackled K2, which is in Kashmir. At 28,251 feet, it is second only to Mount Everest.
        The 1938 expedition, led by Charles S. Houston, did not make it to the top but, at 20,000 feet, went higher than any Americans had ever climbed until then. Traveling by way of a southeastern ridge, they found a route for future climbers of K2, which was finally conquered by an Italian expedition in 1954.
        William House was born in Pittsburgh. He graduated from Yale College in 1935 and from the Yale Forestry School two years later, serving as president of the Yale Mountaineering Club. He also was an honorary member of the elite American Alpine Club.
        The Himalayan adventure nearly cost him his forestry job because of his absence. But a devastating storm struck New England that year, leaving plenty of work for foresters.
        Mr. House was long associated with the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, of which he was a past president. He worked for the well-being of the state's forests, to keep them in the public domain where possible and to help private owners improve their holdings.
        He is survived by his wife, Elaine Johnson House.
      