
        Dr. Roy Orval Greep, a multifaceted anatomist who earned threefold emeritus status at Harvard University, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Laguna Hills, Calif., where he moved from Massachusetts two years ago. He was 92.
        Dr. Greep, a onetime high school dropout, retired in 1974 as director emeritus of the Laboratory of Human Reproductive Biology at Harvard's Medical School, as the John Rock Professor Emeritus of Population Studies at its School of Public Health and as a professor emeritus of anatomy. In the 1950's and 60's, he was a professor of dental science at Harvard and dean of its School of Dental Medicine.
        He wrote some 360 scientific papers and two widely used textbooks on histology, the microscopic study of the structure of tissues, and endocrinology. He was also former editor in chief of the journal Endocrinology and former president of the Endocrine Society, the International Society of Endocrinology and the Laurentian Hormone Conference.
        Roy Greep was born to homesteaders on a wheat farm in Longford, Kan., and attended a two-room school while helping on the farm. He dropped out of high school, but a persistent principal steered him back there and toward his career as an internationally honored pioneer in endocrinology.
        He graduated from Kansas State College in 1930 and headed for the  University of Wisconsin, where he received master's and doctoral degrees in zoology. He became a research assistant in Dr. Frederick Hisaw's laboratory at Harvard Medical School when it was in the forefront of endocrine research.
        Dr. Greep's career took a turn when his experiments with laboratory rats came upon a defect in the pituitary gland that rendered the animals toothless. The finding piqued his interest in tooth formation, and  he pursued that research along with work in hormones and reproduction.
        Dr. Greep's wife of 66 years, Eunice Hauserman Greep, died in June.  He is survived by three daughters, Ann Louise Hogan of Shelburne, Vt.; Marjorie Franko of Concord, Mass., and Nancy Greep of Long Beach, Calif.; three sisters, Luella Mauch of Clay Center, Kan.; Gladys Romberger of Longford, Kan., and Norma McHugh of Grosse Pointe, Mich.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      