
        Danilo Dolci, an advocate of nonviolent social reform whose writings and poetry chronicled Sicily's beauty and sense of despair, died today in a hospital in Sicily of heart failure. He was 73.
        Mr. Dolci, who suffered from diabetes and was debilitated recently by pneumonia after a visit to China, had used a wheelchair in recent months.
        A labor organizer, Mr. Dolci lived and worked in rural western Sicily for more than four decades, employing nonviolent methods to campaign for jobs and the transfer of water rights from the Mafia to farmers' collectives that twice earned him nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize, in 1965 and 1982.
        The Western news media made a romantic figure of Mr. Dolci, calling him the Sicilian Gandhi, and scholars and writers from many countries flocked to the small research center he set up in the village of Partinico, near Palermo, to learn from his methods.
        A prolific writer of prose and poetry, he has also been called by literary critics the Studs Terkel of Sicily,  although Mr. Dolci was the first of the two to chronicle the lives of workers. The most striking of his many books include collections of interviews with Sicilian peasants, fishermen, priests and street cleaners that document not only the beauty but also the heartbreak of their lives.
        Though not a member of a political party, Mr. Dolci was a darling of the European left. The president of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, Luciano Violante, a leader of the Democratic Party of the Left, a formerly Communist group, praised him today for his ''courageous passion, and deep sense of social justice.''
        Born near Trieste of a Sicilian father and Slovenian mother, Mr. Dolci studied architecture in Switzerland before going to live in Sicily in 1952, when he was 28.
        At first limiting his activities to the fishing village of Trappeto, where he lived with his father, a railway stationmaster, he borrowed from Gandhi the technique of fasting as a political weapon and developed other unorthodox tactics. One of these was the ''strike in reverse,'' which consisted of launching unauthorized public works projects for the poor and unemployed.
        Struggling against local racketeers and the Mafia, Mr. Dolci taught school, organized farmers' and craftsmen's cooperatives, and agitated for bridges and dams to aid transport and irrigate the land. It remained something of mystery why Mr. Dolci was left in relative tranquillity by the Mafia, with his supporters suggesting that the Mafia feared a backlash if any harm befell  such a popular figure.
        In 1958, after he dispatched 150 unemployed men to repair a dirt road outside Partinico, he was arrested, convicted on trumped-up charges and sentenced to eight months in jail. A year earlier, Moscow had awarded him the $30,000 Lenin Peace Prize. Mr. Dolci accepted, but in a characteristic statement of independence affirmed he was not a Communist but would accept money from whatever source.
        In 1967, long before the decisive rending of the links between Sicilian politics and the Mafia in the 1990's, Mr. Dolci began attacking leaders of the governing Christian Democratic Party by name, accusing them of collusion with organized crime. He was convicted of libel and sentenced to two years in jail.
        About that time Mr. Dolci began  broadcasting his social creed over a private radio station, thus violating the Government's monopoly of the airwaves. The station was closed, and Mr. Dolci censured.
        An entrancing teacher, Mr. Dolci once told The New York Times in an interview: ''Children are alive, curious, sensitive. Growing up is a process of becoming calloused.'' In the 1970's, Mr. Dolci visited the United States several times, talking on college campuses and gathering money for his struggles for the poor.
        Yet he was not spared criticism.  Several of his followers broke away and founded competing institutions, accusing him of authoritarian methods and misuse of the considerable money that flowed to his research center, though the charges were never substantiated.
        Among Mr. Dolci's books, ''Report From Palermo,'' about the Mafia, appeared in the United States in 1959, and his classic ''Waste'' was a great success several years later. ''Sicilian Lives,'' a record of conversations with a cross section of Sicilians, appeared in 1981.
        Among his survivors are two sons and three daughters from a first marriage, which ended in divorce, and two children from a second marriage.
      