
        Gilbert W. Fitzhugh, a former chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Monday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center in Hightstown, N.J. He was 88 years old and had been ailing for several years with Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Gilbert Van Ingh Fitzhugh.
        Mr. Fitzhugh retired in 1973 after 10 years at the helm of Met Life. While insurance was his first love -- he even met his wife, who had joined the company's London office, when her desk wound up near his at Met Life's Manhattan headquarters -- Mr. Fitzhugh also became an agent of political change. At a White House news conference in 1967, he announced the formation of a $1 billion fund in which insurance companies would invest in rehabilitating rundown urban housing.
        That fund, which has since grown to $2 billion, was hailed by President Lyndon B. Johnson as ''a historic contribution to our country,'' at a time when other urban-renewal programs pushed by the Administration were encountering fierce opposition from Congress.
        While Mr. Fitzhugh in a speech a few months earlier had obliquely criticized President Johnson for what he called the ''new economics,'' which entailed increased Government involvement in American business, he had also been grimly impressed with conditions in a Brooklyn neighborhood he toured with Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York.
        Mr. Fitzhugh also led a Government-appointed panel from 1971 to 1972 that assessed the Pentagon's procurement practices and called for change in the way the Government girded itself for war. ''We're amazed that it works at all,'' he said in announcing his findings, which some hailed for exposing some of the system's worst flaws. The panel's report was attacked by critics like Senator William Proxmire, a Wisconsin Democrat, for taking too kindly an attitude toward military contractors' profits and the ties between industry and the Pentagon.
        In 1972, as head of the New York Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Fitzhugh proposed a merger of the Colonial-era group with the more recently arrived Industry Association of America. The effort had fallen flat eight years earlier, but the chamber voted overwhelmingly in favor of the merger the second time around.
        While he headed Met Life, the company added automobile and home insurance to its policy offerings, becoming the third company to do so.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Fitzhugh spent the first 12 years of his life with a cleft palate that badly garbled his speech, his son said. The problem was eventually corrected with surgery, but by that time Mr. Fitzhugh had developed formidable powers of concentration that, at age 23, made him the youngest person to pass all the examinations required to become a fellow in the Society of Actuaries. The society, though, had a rule at the time that no one under 25 could be admitted, so Mr. Fitzhugh, to his great annoyance, had to wait until his 25th birthday for his membership to become official. He later became president of the society.
        Although he was a quick study when it came to actuarial concepts, starting off as a clerk in Met Life's social insurance division shortly after he graduated from Princeton University in 1930, he often struggled with simple arithmetic. In a 1970 interview, he said, ''I can add up a row of figures four times and get four different answers.'' After 33 years with Met Life, including a brief tour in Canada, he was named chief executive in 1963.
        While he spent much of his career calculating risk for others, he scaled mountain peaks like Mount Marcy in the Adirondacks and the 14,000-foot-high Mount Whitney in California for recreation.
        In addition to his son, Gilbert of Morristown, N.J., Mr. Fitzhugh is survived by his wife, the former Lea Van Ingh of Hightstown; a daughter, Lea Fitzhugh Welch of Yakima, Wash.; a sister, Sarah Fitzhugh Dawson; two grandchildren; three step-grandchildren; two great-grandchildren, and one step-great-grandchild.
      