
        Michael Hedges, a guitarist whose distinctive style meshed folk music, jazz and an exploration of the guitar's sonic capacity, was found dead on Tuesday of injuries suffered in an car accident near Boonville, Calif., in Mendocino County. He was 43, said his manager, Hillary Burgess.
        Mr. Hedges made seven albums for Windham Hill Records, a label known for placid New Age music. But unlike most of the label's roster, he was a flamboyant virtuoso whose music pushed against boundaries.
        He began playing piano, cello and clarinet while growing up in Enid, Okla. He started guitar lessons as a sixth-grader, and joined his first rock band two years later. In high school, he also played the flute in the stage band. He won a guitar scholarship to the Stan Kenton Jazz Camp and went on to study music at Phillips University in Enid.
        In 1976, he enrolled at Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore, where he studied composition, guitar and electronic music; he was also listening to guitarists like Pat Metheny and Ralph Towner. After Peabody's graduate program rejected him, he studied computer music at Stanford University while playing club dates as a guitar soloist.
        In 1981, he was signed to Windham Hill Records, where he became one of the label's best-selling musicians and one of its most popular touring performers.
        Mr. Hedges's first albums were primarily acoustic-guitar solos, but he soon added electric guitar, vocals and additional instruments, often overdubbing all the parts himself. Even his solos were full of intricate counterpoint, created with techniques from classical guitar, rock and jazz: unconventional guitar tunings, fusillades of harmonics, two-handed tapping of the fretboard, percussive string-snapping.
        Onstage, he was charismatic and unpredictable. He might play a Beatles song or a hard-rock riff by AC/ DC; he might dance or drum elaborate rhythms on the front of his guitar. He also sang his own pensive songs, strongly influenced by Joni Mitchell.
        Mr. Hedges lived in Mendocino and worked in a recording studio he had designed, recording material that appeared on his albums as well as many other projects that didn't fit commercial formats. He was a guest musician on albums by David Crosby and Pat Martino, among others. His 1990 album, ''Taproot,'' was nominated for a Grammy Award as best New Age album.
        He is survived by his mother, Ruth Ipsen of Fresno, Calif; a sister, Carol Hedges of San Francisco; two brothers, Craig, of Los Angeles and Brendan, of Madera, Calif., and two sons, Mischa and Jasper.
      