
        Donald Carnegie McKenna, a retired Pennsylvania industrialist, a philanthropist and the namesake of Claremont McKenna College in California, died on Nov. 26 at his home in South Laguna, Calif. He was 90.
        Mr. McKenna spent most of his business career at Kennametal Inc., a large maker of mining and steel-cutting tools in Latrobe, Pa.
        The McKennas had worked in metallurgy for generations, and Mr. McKenna became a founding partner in the McKenna Metals Company in 1940. It became Kennametal three years later, and Mr. McKenna eventually became a vice president and took on the chairmanship in 1969. He retired in 1978.
        Mr. McKenna, who was born in Washington, received a bachelor's degree in English literature from Pomona College in 1929 and earned a master's degree in the subject at Claremont Graduate University in 1931.
        He was studying for his doctorate at Harvard University when he was called back to California during the Depression to manage the Pomona Pump Company, a family business that made submersible pumps and marine engine parts.
        His grandmother, Anna Hogan McKenna, was a cousin of Andrew Carnegie, and the families were close. In the Carnegie tradition, Mr. McKenna devoted much of his philanthropic work to education and libraries.
        While at Pomona Pump in 1944, he helped found Claremont Men's College, which opened two years later. The liberal arts college attracted many returning servicemen covered by the G.I. Bill.
        Mr. McKenna remained a principal benefactor of the college, which was named in his honor in 1981, five years after it began to accept women. He helped establish a variety of programs for students and faculty members, merit scholarships, international internships, a professorship in Asian economics and the McKenna Auditorium.
        Mr. McKenna visited the campus last month for a celebration of his 90th birthday.
        Other beneficiaries of his gifts included libraries in Colorado and Pennsylvania, hospitals on both coasts and Pomona College. He was involved in conservative causes through the Philip McKenna Foundation, the Commonwealth Foundation in Pennsylvania, the Colorado Council on Economic Education and the Republican National Committee.
        Mr. McKenna is survived by his wife of 69 years, Bernice Waller McKenna; a son, Malcolm C., of Englewood, N.J.; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      