
        Philip I. BermanPhilip I. Berman, an art collector and philanthropist who was chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art from 1989 until October, and  leader of a capital campaign that raised $63.4 million for the museum, died on Wednesday at his home in Allentown, Pa. He was 82.
        The cause was respiratory failure, The Philadelphia Inquirer reported.
        Mr. Berman prospered as a businessman in the trucking and heavy-equipment field, retired for a while, and went on to expand a single department store in Allentown into a 14-store chain, Hess's Inc., serving as chairman. It was bought by the Crown American Corporation in 1979, and in 1980 Mr. Berman became a member of the museum's board.
        Anne d'Harnoncourt, director and chief executive of the museum, said,  ''He saw the potential in the institution and in the staff, and he just made sure that we tried to live up to it.''
        Mr. Berman, a native of Pennsburg, Pa., who attended Ursinus College in Collegeville, Pa., honed his administrative skills as a trucking executive in the 1930's and as a Marine Corps transportation officer in the South Pacific during World War II. In those wartime days, he recalled later: ''I knew a hell of a lot about how to get things done. I had to improvise.'' He was also active in insurance and other businesses, and in public television.
        In a 1989 interview, he said that Judaism taught him that ''you must share good fortune, not just to the needy, but to society,'' and the museum benefited from his generosity.
        He and his wife, Muriel Berman, who has an doctorate in optometry, gave $1 million to the capital campaign, which was used to endow the curatorship of 20th-century art at the museum.
        In the 1980's, one gift from the Bermans was used by the museum to acquire more than 2,000 Old Master drawings from the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and the museum then named its prints and drawings gallery for the couple. Another donation allowed the museum to acquire 43,000 19th-century and Old Master prints from the academy.
        The Bermans also presented sculpture by Reuben Nakian and other artists to the museum. The couple's own art collection came to include works by artists ranging from Rembrandt to Mary Cassatt to Chagall and Robert Rauschenberg.
        Other beneficiaries of the Bermans' philanthropy include institutions in the fields of culture, education and medicine in eastern Pennsylvania; the American Jewish Committee; the Jewish Publication Society; the Hadassah Medical Organization in Jerusalem, and Hebrew University, also in Jerusalem.
        In addition to his wife, the former Muriel Mallin, whom he married in 1942, Mr. Berman is survived by two daughters, Nancy Berman Bloch of Los Angeles and Nina Sheafer of St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands; a son, Steven, of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      