
        Dr. Wallace H. Clark Jr., a skin pathologist at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston who devised the first widely used scale for assessing the seriousness of skin cancers called melanomas, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Kennebunk, Me. He was 73.
        Dr. Clark, a visiting professor of pathology at Harvard University, died of a ruptured aneurysm, family members said.
        In making a prognosis based on a microscopic examination of tissue from a suspicious-looking mole, doctors routinely classify cancer according to a system called Clark's Levels. The system identifies five levels, each one more serious as the cancer reaches deeper into the epidermis, down toward the deepest level, the subcutaneous tissue.
        The accuracy of such a diagnosis can be crucial to whether the prescribed treatment is too aggressive or not aggressive enough, said Dr. Terence J. Harrist, an associate professor at Harvard and the medical director at Pathology Services Inc., a laboratory affiliated with Harvard.
        Dr. Clark's technique gives doctors the precise information they need to weigh the risks of a tumor.
        ''If the tumor isn't going to metastasize, you don't do chemotherapy,'' Dr. Harrist said, ''because the chemotherapy itself might be life-threatening.''
        In the 1960's at Massachusetts General Hospital and at Harvard, where he was an assistant professor, Dr. Clark helped establish a clinic for treating melanomas. By carefully observing many melanomas, he correlated the thickness of a particular tumor with the most likely outcome for the patient. Dr. Clark's classification system also helps researchers share information because it gives them a standard vocabulary, Dr. Harrist said.
        Dr. Clark lectured widely to make people aware that patients can detect melanomas early by looking for such signs as a brown mole's turning  black or growing with an uneven shape. If melanomas are spotted early enough, treatment can be far less rigorous.
        For several decades, melanoma has been the most rapidly increasing  form of cancer in the United States.  Melanomas, which kill by spreading and destroying vital organs, are responsible for the deaths of about 9,000 people nationwide each year.
        Wallace Clark was born in LaGrange, Ga. He received a bachelor's degree in 1944 and an M.D. in 1947 from Tulane University, where he worked until 1962, when he joined Massachusetts General and Harvard. In 1969 he went to Temple University as a professor of pathology and was chairman of that department from 1974 to 1978.
        He joined the University of Pennsylvania in 1978, retiring in 1991. He then joined Harvard Medical School and conducted research at Beth Israel until a few days before his death.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia D. Clark; two sons, Wallace H. 3d, of Narberth, Pa., and James M., of Glenshaw, Pa.; four daughters, Anne Richeson of Chevy Chase, Md., Carol V. Clark of Boston, Kristin C. Vaccaro of Eastchester, N.Y., and Kate Cassorla of St. Louis; a brother, Dr. John S. Clark of Atlanta; a sister, Georgia C. Hendricks of LaGrange, and nine grandchildren.
      