
        Walter Sorell, an erudite and prolific writer about dance and esthetics, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and had residences in Manhattan and Zurich.
        Mr. Sorell, who was the New York dance critic for The Providence Journal from 1950 to 1966 and a contributor to publications like Dance News, Dance Magazine, Dance Observer and Ballet Today, was concerned with history and philosophy as well as dance. The author of more than 25 books in English and German, he sought to unite the arts in a cultural synthesis. He also translated several important novels from the  German, including Hermann Hesse's ''Steppenwolf'' and Erich Maria Remarque's ''Arch of Triumph.''
        Mr. Sorell's own books ranged from ''The Dance Through the Ages'' and ''Dance in Its Time'' to ''The Swiss: A Cultural Panorama of Switzerland'' and ''The Story of the Human Hand,'' a study of the ways in which hands can reveal character.
        Mr. Sorell admired the passion of the Romantic era and the fervor of early modern dance but was suspicious of some of the anarchic choreographic experiments of the 1960's. Reviewing his ''Looking Back in Wonder: Diary of a Dance Critic'' for The New York Times in 1986, Anna Kisselgoff declared that ''Unlike any other critic writing today, he considers dance within a broad intellectual and rich cultural context.'' Yet far from being dryly academic, Mr. Sorell ''pins his biases in flaming color on his sleeve.''
        His interest in modern-dance history led him to translate two anthologies of writings by the German Expressionist choreographer Mary Wigman: ''The Language of Dance'' and ''The Mary Wigman Book.'' And he was the author of ''Hanya Holm,'' a biography of an influential German choreographer who moved to New York in the early 30's.
        Mr. Sorell published poetry, did radio broadcasts for the Voice of America and wrote several plays, including ''Everyman Today,'' staged by the Union Theological Seminary in 1958. An artist as well as a writer, Mr. Sorell began exhibiting his paintings when he was in his 70's, having more than 40 exhibitions.
        Mr. Sorell was born in Vienna, where he attended the University of Vienna and participated in political theater groups. Fleeing the Nazis, he settled in New York City in 1939. Over the years, he taught theater and dance history at such institutions as Columbia University, Barnard College, the New School for Social Research, Hunter College, Cornell University and the University of Wisconsin.
        Mr. Sorell's many awards include an honorary doctorate from Valparaiso University in Indiana and the Dance Magazine Award of Distinction. He received the Austrian Cross of Honor for Science and Art in 1991 and the Silver Medal of Honor of the City of Vienna in 1994.
        He is survived by his wife, Gertrude Maria; a stepson, Gerard Sorell of North Caldwell, N.J.; two granddaughters, Tamara Sorell of Washingtonville, N.Y., and Deborah Sorell of Manhattan, and three great-granddaughters.
      