
        Martin B. Stecher, who during a 21-year tenure as a New York State Supreme Court justice ruled on cases involving Joseph Jett, a former government-bond trader at Kidder, Peabody & Company, and Frederick W. Richmond, a former Brooklyn Congressman, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Andre R. Jaglom, a family friend.
        Justice Stecher was born in 1918  and grew up in Far Rockaway, Queens. He graduated from City College in 1939 and New York University Law School, where he was an editor of The Law Review. During World War II, he served in the United States Army as chief of security for the Trans-Iranian Railroad in the Persian Gulf Command.
        In 1967, he was elected judge of the New York City Civil Court. One of his biggest cases came in 1971, when he ruled that a Manhattan landlord was liable in the rape of a young woman in her East Village apartment because he failed to repair a window through which the rapist entered the victim's bedroom.
        Justice Stecher was elected to the Supreme Court in 1973. Six years later, in a high-profile case, he took issue with the parents of a baby girl who had spina bifida. The parents refused on religious grounds to allow corrective surgery, saying they wanted to ''let God decide.'' But Justice Stecher overruled them and ordered the surgery.
        In the 1980's and 90's, he ruled on several cases involving people in the news. In 1982, he ordered Mr. Richmond, a former Democratic Congressman from Brooklyn, to repay about $300,000 of pension money he had collected after he feigned retirement from a company in which he was the controlling shareholder. Mr. Richmond later served a nine-month prison term for tax evasion.
        In 1986, Justice Stecher ordered that the assets of the former Bronx Democratic chairman Stanley M. Friedman be frozen after Mr. Friedman's indictment on racketeering charges involving the city's Parking Violations Bureau. Mr. Friedman eventually served four years in prison.
        And in 1994, Justice Stecher told  Kidder, Peabody & Company to pay Joseph Jett, a former trader for the firm, $140,000 from his deferred pay plan after the company dismissed him for allegedly creating $350 million in false profits. Mr. Jett's case is still winding its way through the legal system.
        Mr. Stecher retired from the bench in 1994. He later practiced law with Stecher Jaglom & Prutzman, a Manhattan firm in which his son, Jamie, is a senior partner. He also served as judicial hearing officer, special master, mediator and arbitrator.
        Justice Stecher is survived by his wife, Dr. Judith Stecher; two sons, Jamie and Joseph, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      