
        Barry S. Brook, an internationally renowned musicologist who established and led a doctoral program in music at the City University of New York Graduate School, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City.
        Professor Brook was a pioneer in the field of musical iconography, the use of images from the visual arts to document and date musical events,  and a leading scholar of 18th-century music and esthetics. In 1963 his seminal study, ''The French Symphony in the Second Half of the 18th Century,'' was published in France. But his interests also included the sociology of music and music of world cultures.
        He was one of the first scholars to recognize the potential of the computer for the documentation, analysis and distribution of musicological materials. In 1966 he established at CUNY, where he was teaching, the first international bibliography of scholarly writings on music, called RILM (Repertoire International de Literature Musicale). This ongoing archive was a model for other disciplines and has remained a leading  resource for scholars.
        He founded a doctoral program in music at CUNY Graduate School in 1967 and continued to teach there until he retired in 1989.
        ''An awful lot of musicologists do their archival work and make all sorts of arbitrary, dogmatic rules,'' Harold C. Schonberg, a former chief music critic of The New York Times, said yesterday. ''Barry Brook was very free. He was an expert on 18th-century performance practices, especially on issues of ornamentation. But he rejected the idea that there was only one way something could be played.''
        Barry Shelley Brook was born in New York City on Nov. 1, 1918. He graduated from City College of New York in 1939, earned his master of arts degree from Columbia University in 1942 and was awarded a doctorate in music by the Sorbonne in Paris in 1959.
        During World War II he was a captain in the United States Air Force, where he served as a lead navigator and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. He began his teaching career at Queens College in 1945, but was a frequent resident in Paris, where he worked with the support of two Guggenheim Foundation grants, two Fulbright Scholarships and a Ford Foundation fellowship.
        In 1977 he inaugurated the doctoral program at the Juilliard School, and was the head of the program for 10 years; in 1983, he created a new doctoral program in musicology at the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris.
        When he died, he was editor in chief of an ambitious publishing project titled ''The Universe of Music: A History.'' This venture will compile articles and information from scholars around the world for a series of 17 books. The first volume, due shortly from the Smithsonian Institution, will cover music from Latin America and South America.
        He is survived by his wife, Claire;  two children from a previous marriage, a son, Randy, and a daughter, Michelle, both of Seattle; two stepchildren, and six grandchildren.
      