
        Willie Pastrano, who went from a chubby adolescent to a world light-heavyweight boxing champion, died of cancer in New Orleans on Saturday night. He was 62.
        Pastrano had been hospitalized at Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans for two weeks. Angelo Dundee, his former trainer, said Pastrano had known since last year that he had liver cancer.
        Pastrano, a pudgy child growing up in New Orleans, took up boxing to lose weight after being prodded by his friend Ralph Dupas, a junior middleweight champion whose nickname for Pastrano was ''Fatmeat.''
        Pastrano was so embarrassed by his physique as a child that he would go to the boxing gym to train only late at night when there were not a lot of people around. He began working with the trainer Whitey Esenault and turned pro at the age of 15.
        Many of his early bouts were grudge matches against young men from his neighborhood who had teased him about his weight. In a 1963 interview he said he would tell them: ''Remember me? Remember the fat boy you used to throw his sandwich in the street every day at lunchtime at Colton School? Yeah, that's me and I'm gonna straighten out all the jive you laid on me.''
        His father, Frank, was a Works Progress Administration laborer who later worked on a merchant ship as a cook. His mother, Martherina, took care of Willie, a half brother and an adopted sister at a three-room French Quarter flat.
        Frank Pastrano forced Willie into his first fight, though it was not in the ring. After catching sight of a bully smacking Willie in the back of the neck, Frank Pastrano told his son to fight the bully or get a licking from Frank. Willie fought the other boy.
        Esenault sent Pastrano and Dupas to train with Dundee in Miami during summer breaks from high school. Because Pastrano and Dupas were both teen-agers, Dundee could not allow them to fight 10-round fights.
        ''So my brother, Chris, invented the two-minute round for Willie and he could fight up to eight rounds,'' Dundee said. ''In the summer of 1952, while he was here on high school vacation, Willie fought six times. He'd go to places like Pensacola and West Palm Beach. He liked it so much here that when he got out of school, he wound up here.''
        Through Dundee, Pastrano became a close friend of Muhammad Ali and is credited with helping to teach Ali his flicking jab. Pastrano and Ali worked out together at Dundee's Fifth Street Gym in Miami, and Ali called him ''Sweet Willie P.''
        The high point of Pastrano's professional career came when he won the light-heavyweight title on June 1, 1963, with a split decision over Harold Johnson in Las Vegas, Nev. Pastrano got the fight against the heavily favored Johnson after two other fighters had backed out.
        ''When I made that fight against Johnson, I called Willie and told him,'' Dundee said. ''There was a long pause on the other side and finally Willie said, 'You don't like me no more, do you?' ''
        Pastrano, who was noted more for his fast hands and technical skills than his knockout power (he had 14 knockouts in 84 fights), successfully defended the title twice before losing to Jose Torres at Madison Square Garden on March 30, 1965. He retired then with a record of 63-13-8, which included some heavyweight bouts.
        Away from boxing, Pastrano fell on hard times, experiencing financial woes and battling heroin addiction, while working odd jobs such as a bouncer at topless bars and a greeter at a casino in Reno. Later, Pastrano returned to New Orleans to work at a municipal boxing gym and managed some fighters.
        Pastrano is survived by nine children and three grandchildren.
      