
        Joel White, a naval architect and boat builder who was considered to be one of the country's foremost designers of wooden boats, died Friday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 66.
        The cause was lung cancer, his son Steven said.
        Working out of his Brooklin Boat Yard just south of Acadia National Park for the last four decades, Mr. White created dinghies, sailboats, power boats and yachts with a unifying design theme -- simplicity.
        ''In a world gone crazy for gadgets and goo-gaws on boats, he preserved a sense of elegance and purity,'' said John Wilson, the editor in chief of WoodenBoat magazine, to which Mr. White contributed designs. ''His was the world of traditional wooden boats and yachts. And he was not interested in self-aggrandizement. He was not seeking monuments to himself. His boats were adorned with nothing unnecessary.''
        Mr. White's best-known small boat was the Nutshell Pram, just under eight feet long, which could be sailed, rowed or used as a tender for a larger boat to carry people and supplies from shore. The boat could be sold as a kit with cut-out plywood parts.
        He also designed the Haven 12 1/2, a 15-foot-long wooden sailboat known for its stability and its deftness in shallow waters, and the Bridges Point 24, a 24-foot-long fiberglass sailboat.
        His most recent design, a 76-foot racing sailboat that is to be launched early next summer -- with perhaps a dozen to be built eventually -- is in the 1920's style, with a long overhang and low freeboard. ''This boat is the pinnacle of his designs,'' said Maynard Bray, a marine engineer and friend.
        Steven White said his father ''had very strong feelings on the esthetics of a boat.''
        ''But he did not believe in boats as furniture,'' the son said. ''He said that if a boat was scratched, that was part of using it. He was interested in form and how a boat performed.''
        ''There's a certain amount of dewy-eyed enthusiasm about wood that gets a little sticky sometimes,'' Joel White once said. ''People can get so caught up in the Zen of the thing, they sometimes forget what a boat is really for.''
        Mr. White was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., the son of the essayist and author E. B. White and his wife, Katharine, who was fiction editor of The New Yorker. The family moved to a farm in North Brooklin, Me., in the mid-1930's, and the son became immersed in a lifelong love of sailing Maine's coastal waters. He built a 19-foot boat named Martha, in honor of his daughter, that his father sailed after adding his own touch -- carved dolphins, four on each side of the bow, decorated in gold.
        One of E. B. White's most enduring essays, ''Once More to the Lake,'' written in 1941, tells of a trip with his son back to the freshwater lake where the father spent vacations as a boy.
        Mr. White attended Cornell University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which he obtained a bachelor's degree in naval architecture in 1953. After working on boat building in Newport News, Va., and serving in the Army, he returned to Maine and assumed ownership of the Brooklin boating facility in 1960. His son Steven has been owner and president of the boatyard since 1986.
        He was the author of ''Wood, Water & Light: Classic Wooden Boats'' (Norton, 1988) with photographs by Benjamin Mendlowitz. Reviewing the book for The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt called it a ''lovely work'' that was ''untainted by snobbery.'' Mr. White read from his father's essays, poems and short stories in a recent audio cassette, ''White on White.''
        The editor and writer Roger Angell, Mr. White's half-brother, said that ''he really was a Down Easter. He was reserved in his emotions and instinctively modest.''
        Mr. Angell said that Mr. White had resisted corporate offers for his boat business because he did not want to lose control over his creations.
        ''He said, 'I don't want to make any boats I don't have my hands on.' ''
        In addition to his son Steven and Mr. Angell, Mr. White is survived by his wife, Allene; a son, John, of Brooklin; a daughter, Martha Allen-White of Rockport, Me., and six grandchildren.
      