
        Not every 36-year-old freshly arrived in Manhattan is immediately invited to dinner (and provided with a tuxedo) by Ralph Lauren, or to a lunch given by the Vogue editor Anna Wintour for Katharine Graham, or to an opening of the Byzantium exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, or to an evening of pizza with a clutch of New York intellectuals pondering the future of American labor. And, of course, not every 36-year-old new to town says he would like to run for United States Senate someday.
        But not everybody is George Stephanopoulos, the former Presidential adviser and thinking woman's sex symbol, who is withdrawing from what he has called ''the most powerful drug I've ever experienced'' -- the 7:30 A.M. White House staff meeting -- to start a new life, more or less, in New York.
        ''That's my job, getting a life,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said agreeably the other day over lunch at Michael's, where he turned up in a very New York black sweater sans his usual tie. He conceded that his new life was coming ''slowly, slowly'' and that ''I'm not there yet,'' but that ''one of the things I like is that I have a little bit more time alone.''
        What a life it is so far. Mr. Stephanopoulos may be living temporarily among the graduate students of Columbia University's Butler Hall, his home for the three days a week he now spends in New York, but his move northward is a story of the prince of spin's rapid adjustment from the Washington fast lane to the New York minute.
        In December, Mr. Stephanopoulos made a deal with Little, Brown for a $2.85 million memoir on his years at President Clinton's side. In January, he began a job as a political analyst on ABC's ''Good Morning America'' and the Sunday morning program ''This Week.'' This fall, he begins teaching a course tentatively titled ''From Cup to Lip: Presidential Promises and Presidential Action'' as a visiting professor at Columbia University, his alma mater, where he keeps his new office. Last week, he played himself on ''Spin City,'' the ABC sitcom starring Michael J. Fox, who has had a run playing short but high-strung political aides modeled after, who else, George Stephanopoulos.
        Yesterday, Mr. Stephanopoulos closed on a $550,000, two-bedroom apartment with sweeping river view at 114th Street and Riverside Drive. (His architect, Stephen Miller Siegel, will be talking to Mr. Lauren and Polo about the renovation.) It was an ''impulse buy,'' as Mr. Stephanopoulos called it, locating him geographically near Columbia and symbolically in the model of the scholar-politician Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, whom he admires.
        ''The Moynihan model is an outstanding model,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said, quickly pointing out that he has ''absolutely no intention'' of challenging Mr. Moynihan, 69, who announced last month that he will run for re-election in 2000. ''But one day, yeah. I think senator's a great job.''
        Mr. Stephanopoulos may have hubris, but it is hard to accuse him of carpetbagging. From kindergarten through eighth grade he lived in Purchase, in Westchester County, the elder son of a Greek Orthodox priest who liked to take his wide-eyed altar boy into the city on church business. ''I just thought it was so cool,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said.
        He moved to Cleveland for his high school years but returned for four years at Columbia, where he got past the ropes at Studio 54 and Xenon, the discos of the era, and graduated as class salutatorian in 1982. That fall his parents moved to an apartment on the Upper East Side, next door to the Cathedral of Holy Trinity, where the Rev. Robert G. Stephanopoulos is still dean of the home church of the archdiocese that oversees all of North and South America. His son, who lately has been attending the Church of the Sunday Morning Talk Show, says he'll be there on Easter.
        Unresolved at the moment is Mr. Stephanopoulos's future with his girlfriend of three years, Wendy Smith, who works in the communications office of the White House. ''One rule I intend to carry over from Washington is never to talk about my personal life,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said.
        Ms. Smith did not return calls, but she did tell The Washington Post in December that she had no plans to move to New York.
        Mr. Stephanopoulos is aware of how much easier it is to redefine himself in New York than in Washington, a city that has one of the largest concentrations of former Presidential advisers in the world, and where turning in a White House pass is the toughest cold-turkey act in town.
        ''It's one of the reasons I left,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said. ''I just didn't want to immediately fall into thinking I should be at work every day, driving by the White House. Inevitably, I'm always going to be defined by working for Clinton, but it sticks a little deeper when you stay in Washington.'' New York, he said cheerfully, ''is not a company town.''
        Indeed. Over grilled chicken and salad last week at Michael's, the lunch spot of the moment for New York's publishing and media crowd, not a single patron, including Richard Holbrooke, the Clinton Administration's former chief negotiator on Bosnia, acknowledged the aide who was called the President's closest adviser next to Hillary Clinton. No one fussed over Mr. Stephanopoulos when he went out that evening, either, to Campagna, an Italian restaurant in the Flatiron district, although Mr. Stephanopoulos's wait for his dinner companions -- he read The New Yorker and had a martini -- did trigger a minor gossip item two days later in The New York Post.
        Mr. Stephanopoulos often slips into the city unnoticed. ''It depends on how I'm dressed and whether I shaved that day,'' he said.
        ''He likes the fact that in certain worlds here, he is anonymous,'' said Mark Halperin, an ABC producer who is among the group of youngish journalists who make up Mr. Stephanopoulos's small circle in New York. Friends say Mr. Stephanopoulos is both deliriously happy (''He certainly looks better,'' said his mother, Nikki Stephanopoulos) but perhaps still on edge as he decompresses from the rigidity of his old Washington life to a world where he faces the anxiety of choice.
        ''I have to deal with that,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said. ''I'm not great at it yet.''
        He added: ''I'm very busy, but it's different. Yesterday -- this sounds silly -- I had to get up for 'Good Morning America,' so I went in to work early. And I had a pretty full morning. So at lunch, I ran some errands, and went home and took a 20-minute nap. That's the first time I've gone home and taken a nap in the middle of a workday in -- maybe ever. And it was great. But I couldn't imagine doing it before.
        ''And that's actually the hardest thing for me to deal with personally. Because I will tend to fight the anxiety by suppressing it.''
        In person, the famously disciplined and perfectionistic Mr. Stephanopoulos is personable, polite and circumspect, fearful these days of saying anything about his work for the President that his publisher might construe as an ''exit interview'' from the White House, thereby spilling the secrets he is expected to save for his book. ''They want everything,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said.
        Friends say one of the biggest tasks he must wrestle with in his book -- to be written with William Novak, the collaborator for Nancy Reagan, Oliver North and Magic Johnson, among others -- is how open to be in his disappointment with the President on health care and welfare reform. ''I want the book to be an honest look at what we did right and what we did wrong,'' he said, adding that some of that will come up in his course, too.
        He is equally cautious about sounding romantic about New York, as he did in an interview with Eric Alterman, a writer for The Nation, in the February issue of Vogue.
        ''The sick, perverted, unfortunately ideal image I have in my head,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos told Mr. Alterman, ''is the scene from 'Manhattan' where Woody Allen is sitting on his couch, talking to himself and listing the things that make life worth living -- Willie Mays, Louis Armstrong, Cezanne's apples and pears. I know I'm not really a downtown kind of guy -- I mean, who am I kidding? -- but when I picture myself waking up in my loft in TriBeCa, having my coffee, reading the papers . . . I want to live so that not everything I do is related to my work.''
        At lunch, he waved off such dreaminess. ''A few days on the subway has taken care of that,'' he said.
        Mr. Stephanopoulos generally spends Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in New York. He stops for the newspapers on his walk to Columbia.
        ''I kind of flip through them,'' he said. ''I used to have to read them intensely first thing in the day.''
        Is it hard not to be involved? ''It's hard, and it's not,'' he said. ''I mean, sometimes it's a relief.''
        Once at his office, he makes his morning calls to Mr. Alterman, Mr. Halperin, the political strategist James Carville and Rahm Emanuel, the White House's new George Stephanopoulos. ''Just check in, see what's going on,'' he said. The conversations help give voice to his liberal and generally pro-Clinton point of view, prompting many journalists to question how he can be a true analyst of politics for ABC when he is so closely tied to the President.
        ''I'm not pretending not to have a point of view,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said. ''Just because I defend Clinton doesn't mean I'm wrong. And if I believe the administration is making a mistake, I'll say so.''
        So far Mr. Stephanopoulos has not specifically criticized the Clinton Administration for its campaign fund-raising practices, preferring to say instead that ''the whole system stinks.''
        During the day, Mr. Stephanopoulos prepares for his appearances on ABC, meets with his research assistant, organizes notes for his book, or writes a speech. In the afternoon, he goes to the gym and sometimes works in the evenings at home. He has enough invitations to be out every night, he said, adding: ''But I just can't do that. I can't do my job, I can't think, it's falling into my old life if I do that.''
        Ten years from now, what would he like to be doing?
        ''I'm having trouble,'' Mr. Stephanopoulos said, ''with 10 days from now.''
        The Pleasure of His Company
      