
        Dr. Charles F. Code, a physiologist who overcame the effects of polio and other serious illnesses to enter medical research, where he made significant discoveries about the biochemistry of allergic reactions, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Del Mar, Calif. He was 87.
        In a wide-ranging career spent mainly at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Dr. Code also did early studies showing the pattern of movement in the alimentary canal, and helped conquer a problem that bedeviled military pilots in World War II: when they performed high-speed maneuvers, the blood would be pulled down to their legs by gravity, causing them to black out.
        Before he entered medical research, Dr. Code had to contend with medical problems so severe that he once said, ''Nature seemed to want to do away with me.''
        A colleague, Dr. Joseph Szurszewski, chairman of the department of physiology and biophysics at the Mayo Clinic, said of Dr. Code, ''He had two careers at the Mayo Clinic, one as a patient and one as a researcher and professor.''
        He suffered from scarlet fever when he was 8 and contracted polio at 12, and was told that he would never walk, a prediction that turned out to be wrong. He wore a back brace and leg braces, and his first contact with the clinic was when he was treated there as a boy. He turned to research because he was concerned that he would not be mobile enough to treat patients.
        Dr. Code was known for firmly establishing the role of histamine in allergic reactions, including severe ones, and showing that white blood cells and mast cells circulating in the bloodstream carry this chemical compound. His basic research in this area led pharmacologists to develop antihistamines.
        He was also the chief proponent of a hypothesis, now widely accepted, that histamine plays an important role in mediating acid secretion in the stomach. This research led to the development of drugs to treat ulcers.
        In the 1950's and 60's, he carried out pioneering studies using radiological methods to film the patterns of movement of the esophagus, stomach and the intestines in dogs and healthy humans during digestion and between meals. His were not the first films, but they were the most complete moving images of the motor patterns of the digestive tract.
        In World War II, Dr. Code led a team of Mayo physiologists to find out why pilots blacked out during combat maneuvers. Using themselves as subjects on a large centrifuge and in an Army A-24 plane called the G-Whiz, which made dives and loops over the Minnesota cornfields, the researchers came up with a solution. They developed the ''G'' suit, with pouches around the legs that could be filled with air on demand, preventing blood from pooling below the waist and allowing the pilot to remain conscious.
        In the course of their research, Dr. Code and some of his colleagues probably spent more time blacked out because of high gravity than any others in history, Dr. Szurszewski said. So about 10 years ago, the Air Force studied their cognitive functioning to see if they were impaired. They were found to be ''as sharp as ever,'' Dr. Szurszewski said.
        Charles Frederick Code was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on Feb. 1, 1910, and received a bachelor's degree and a medical degree from the University of Manitoba, and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota. He joined the Mayo Clinic as a clinical fellow in 1934 and, after further training in London, he returned there. He became professor of physiology at 36 and then was appointed chairman of the department of physiology and biophysics.
        In the early 1970's, Dr. Code helped lead the effort to form the medical school at the Mayo Clinic, where he served as the first director for education and research and became a member of the board of governors. After retiring from the clinic, he went to the University of California at Los Angeles, and later to the University of California at San Diego.
        He wrote more than 300 scientific papers, and edited the first handbook of physiology published by the American Physiological Society. He was a past president of the American Gastroenterological Association and later received its Friedenwald Medal for outstanding service to gastroenterology.
        Dr. Code is survived by two daughters, Wendy Klarsfeld of New York City and Carla Preisler of Lafayette, Calif.; a son, Allan, of Minneapolis; a sister, Frances Hall of Vancouver, British Columbia, and five grandchildren. His wife of 61 years, Gwendolyn, died in August.
        After his death, family members found in his garage the leg braces that he had been able to relinquish in favor of canes, a reminder to himself perhaps, Dr. Szurszewski said, that a disability can be overcome.
      