
        Irving Bernstein, who was active in Jewish causes since the flight of Holocaust survivors to what became the State of Israel, died Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Bernstein was present at events and conferences that left their marks on Jewish life. From 1971 to 1984, he served as executive vice chairman of the United Jewish Appeal, where he worked with movers and shakers of Jewish history.
        He was born in the Bronx to immigrant parents, with Yiddish as his first language. He graduated from City College in 1942, after waiting tables during summers in the Borscht Belt resorts of the Catskills .
        Mr. Bernstein spent three years in the Air Force maintaining B-17 Flying Fortresses in England, then studied at Teachers College at Columbia University on the G.I. Bill and became a social worker. A supervisor advised him that he would be of better use to some agency like the U.J.A., which promptly put him to work as a fund-raiser.
        The year was 1946 and he soon was overwhelmed, like the agency itself, by the distress of Jewish survivors in Europe. He crisscrossed the United States as a salesman for the nascent Israel, collecting money that paid for food, medical supplies and old ships like the Exodus that took Jews from Europe there, before and after the nation's founding in 1948. He worked out of New York and Los Angeles to finance Operations Magic Carpet and Ezra, which sustained Jews fleeing from Arab countries.
        He helped establish U.J.A.'s Young Leadership Division, the Israel Education Fund and other support programs. As executive vice chairman, he laid the foundations for projects that aided Jews leaving Ethiopia and the Soviet Union. He was an associate governor of Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a visiting professor at Brandeis University.
        Mr. Bernstein is survived by his wife of 46 years, Judith Muniz Bernstein; two sons, Robert, of St. George, Me., and Dr. Joseph, of Guilford, Ind.; a sister, Frances Kaplan of New City, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      