
        Dr. Louis Gluck, a pediatrician who developed the modern neonatal intensive care unit, died on Nov. 29 in Saddleback Memorial Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Laguna Hills.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Gluck ''was certainly among the major founders of neonatology,'' the branch of medicine dealing with newborns, said Dr. Lawrence M. Gartner, who is preparing an oral history of the field for the American Academy of Pediatrics. ''What he created was the basic concept of intensive care for newborns.''
        Working at the Yale University School of Medicine in the 1960's, Dr. Gluck developed a radical design for a nursery for ill full-term babies and premature babies, said Dr. Howard Pearson, a professor of pediatrics at Yale.
        At the time, premature infants were often isolated in small cubicles. They had little direct contact with doctors and nurses and none with parents because of a fear of airborne infections from staphylococcus and other bacteria. But Dr. Gluck, based on his research on the spread of infection in newborns, was certain that the problem lay elsewhere.
        ''He basically thought if you washed your hands, you didn't have to worry much about staph infection,'' Dr. Pearson said.
        Dr. Gluck's design for a neonatal intensive care unit took shape with the help of $3 million from a benefactor whose premature grandson he had saved. It was set up as one big open room, filled with newborns in their incubators, where the infants could be handled and all their needs attended to.
        The single room ''enabled him to do a kind of intensive management of newborns in a practical way that otherwise wouldn't be feasible,'' said Dr. Gartner, a professor of pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Chicago.
        As part of his early work on the spread of infections, Dr. Gluck developed the technique of washing infants each day with hexachlorophene, a disinfectant. The practice was abandoned in the early 1970's after studies showed that the chemical caused brain damage in laboratory animals.
        Dr. Gluck was also instrumental in developing a test to determine whether a fetus's lungs were mature, said Dr. Philip Di Saia, a professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of California at Irvine. He showed that when the lungs were fully developed, the ratio of two fatty substances in the amniotic fluid changed.
        Dr. Gluck was born in Newark and graduated from Rutgers University in 1948. He received his medical degree from the University of Chicago.
        After his work at Yale, he established a similar intensive-care program at the University of California at San Diego. Later, he was a professor at the College of Medicine at the University of California at Irvine.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Gloria; three sons, Clifford D., of Boston, Stephen L., of St. Louis, and David L., of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Ferris E., of Orange County, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      