
        Walter James Levy, a New York-based oil consultant who was considered the dean of United States oil economists, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 86.
        In a business charged with intrigue and fierce rivalries, Mr. Levy was respected for his integrity, rectitude and trust. He owned no oil stocks, and his word was taken as solid by rival companies and oil-rich countries from Indonesia to Venezuela.
        Whether consulted by companies or various governments, Mr. Levy made no secret of his dealings with competitors. His opinions and market analyses were sought and widely read until he retired about 10 years ago.
        In World War II, Mr. Levy headed the petroleum section of the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. After the war, he guided the petroleum sector of the Marshall Plan. In 1948 he became chief of the petroleum, oil and lubricant division of the Economic Cooperation Administration, which administered the plan to mend Europe's shattered economies and provide the political stability for democratic institutions to thrive. He filled that job until 1949 and continued to advise the E.C.A. until it ended its mission two years later.
        In the ensuing decades, he ran his own business, the W. J. Levy Consultants Corporation, with offices in New York and London. His horizons widened from the strategic role of oil in war and reconstruction to a world emerging from colonialism and foreign tutelage.
        It was a world in which sizable pools of crude underground betokened vast riches to which foreign corporations usually held the keys. Mr. Levy helped renegotiate oil leases between states that wanted to tap their own resources effectively and companies that feared outright nationalization.
        His clients included India, Brunei and Saudi Arabia as well as the United States and European countries. In 1979, West Germany bestowed on  him the Commander's Cross of the Federal Order of Merit, one of many honors he received.
        Walter Levy was born in Altona, Germany, now a part of Hamburg. He studied at the Universities of Berlin, Freiburg, Heidelberg, Munich and Kiel, where he received a Doctor of Laws degree.
        He migrated to England in 1933, found work at the Petroleum Press Bureau and wrote a book about oil in war that drew the interest of British economic officials. He provided them with briefings, but when war broke out in 1939 he was branded an ''enemy alien'' and moved on to New York as a freelance economist.
        When the United States entered the war, the newly formed O.S.S. beckoned and he became section chief in the Enemy Oil Committee, analyzing German petroleum resources and pinpointing supply routes, refineries and synthetic oil plants for air attacks.
        He was in charge of petroleum research at the State Department before he joined the Marshall Plan administration. After opening his private consultancy, he continued to advise numerous Government branches, among them the White House, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the State Department, as well as the School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
        He wrote articles that appeared in magazines and newspapers around the country and was the author of ''Oil Strategy and Politics, 1941-1981'' (1982).
        Mr. Levy's wife, Augusta Sondheimer Levy, died in 1981 after 40 years of marriage.
        He is survived by a daughter, Susan Levy of Altamonte Springs, Fla., and two sisters, Herta Grove of Philadelphia and Kate Freyhan of Bedford, England.
      