
        Martin Slate, the executive director of the Government corporation that insures the pensions of 41 million Americans and a civil servant repeatedly honored for innovative solutions to regulatory problems, died on Sunday night, the White House announced yesterday. He was 51.
        His wife, Dr. Caroline Poplin, an internist, said her husband had died of cardiac arrest at their home in Bethesda, Md.
        Mr. Slate marched in Selma, Ala., during the height of the civil rights movement, created a scholarship program to help minority lawyers at the Internal Revenue Service earn advanced degrees in taxation and last fall started an effort over the Internet to find people who were due pension benefits but had not collected them.
        President Clinton yesterday called Mr. Slate ''the quintessential public servant'' and said, ''Marty spent his entire life working to make sure our laws were fair and applied justly.''
        Hillary Rodham Clinton and Mr. Slate were classmates at Yale Law School and they worked together on Senator Eugene McCarthy's 1968 campaign for the Democratic Party nomination for President.
        For the last four years, Mr. Slate was executive director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, where his efforts won the agency an Innovations in Government Award from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, for devising a program to alert the Government to early signs that a pension plan might be headed for financial trouble.
        Kathleen P. Utgoff, who ran the pension agency during the Bush Administration, said that Mr. Slate ''behaved not as a bureaucrat but as a public servant.'' She added: ''He worried not about his turf or whether something had never been done before, but about what needed to be done to get the best result. He was all too unusual as a Government official.''
        Two years ago, Mr. Slate displayed the same kind of willingness to try new ideas in negotiations with General Motors, which had an $18.2 billion gap between the money it had in its pension plan for hourly workers and their promised retirement benefits.
        General Motors proposed to reduce the shortfall with $6 billion of G.M. stock, a proposal that exceeded the limits on how much of its own stock a company pension plan could own.
        ''Marty was willing to consider doing things that were creative, innovative, and hadn't been done before,'' said Gary M. Ford, a partner at Groom and Nordberg, the Washington law firm that represented General Motors in the negotiations.
        Mr. Ford, who was general counsel of the pension corporation in the Reagan Administration, said that once the deal was struck, Mr. Slate worked effectively to persuade the Labor Department and the I.R.S., which both regulate pension plans, that the deal was the best solution.
        Eleanor Holmes Norton, the District of Columbia delegate to Congress, said that when she headed the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission from 1977 through 1980, Mr. Slate was a major figure in reducing a backlog of cases.
        Mr. Slate was director of the Chicago regional office for three years and during that time he reduced the backlog of complaints from 4,000 to 1,500 while increasing the number of lawsuits contending job discrimination to 65 from 2.
        ''I was struck by his brilliance and versatility,'' Mrs. Norton said. ''Lawyers often get pigeonholed in due process and don't know how to make things work, but here was a man deeply imbued with due process and yet who knew how to make the law work for people.''
        Mr. Slate graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1967 and earned his law degree at Yale in 1973. In 1988 he earned a master's degree in laws in taxation at Georgetown University.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Slate is survived by his parents, Albert and Selma Slate of Quincy, Mass.; a brother, Dr. Jerome Slate, of Lexington, Mass., and a sister, Emily Slate, of Munich, Germany.
      