
        Louis Loss, a professor of law at Harvard University who was widely viewed as the father of securities law, died on Saturday at the Beth Israel-Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 83.
        A Harvard spokesman said Mr. Loss, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Loss was the author of ''Securities Regulation,'' the first treatise comprehensively bringing together the law and court decisions regarding securities laws when it was published in 1951. That book, expanded over the years, remains the leading text on the subject.
        Mr. Loss, who was a professor emeritus at Harvard, helped develop the initial theories that enabled the Securities and Exchange Commission to use the broadly worded anti-fraud provisions of the securities law to prosecute insider trading, an area not directly addressed by the law itself. The Oxford English Dictionary credits him with having coined the word ''tippee,'' to refer to someone who trades stock after getting a tip from a corporate insider.
        His work has been cited in more than 1,000 court decisions, including more than 50 by the United States Supreme Court. Among his students at Harvard were four current members of the High Court: Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Anthony M. Kennedy, Antonin Scalia and David Souter.
        The two major securities laws, the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are often unclear and have been subjected to a large amount of interpretation over the years. Much of that interpretation stemmed from the work of Mr. Loss, whose treatise was expanded in a second edition published in 1961 by Little, Brown and then expanded to the current 11 volumes in 1989, with Joel Seligman, the dean of the University of Arizona law school, as a co-author.
        In 1995, Little, Brown published another work by Mr. Loss, ''Anecdotes of a Securities Lawyer.''
        In shaping the field of securities law, Mr. Loss was known for efforts to apply common sense to statutes that were somewhat opaque. ''He was the great codifier,'' Mr. Seligman said yesterday. ''He could see the field as a whole. He gave it shape and direction.''
        In 1993, he told a reporter that he was proudest of his role as a treatise writer. ''There are people at this faculty who scorn treatise writing and liken legal treatises to battleships -- prime, prestigious stuff in their time, but not really worth their keep in the contemporary world,'' he said. ''They prefer to write about the sex lives of caterpillars. But what they don't realize is that these books have shaped the law. They have made a field of law that didn't exist before.''
        One of Mr. Loss's favorite anecdotes, Mr. Seligman said, dealt with a time in the 1960's when he became overwhelmed and depressed by how hard he found it to keep up with new developments in securities law. He consulted a colleague, an eminent professor at Harvard, who said it was his own fault: he had given up his 13th Amendment rights when he chose to write a treatise on a broad field of law. The 13th Amendment barred slavery.
        Mr. Loss said he had told another colleague of that remark, and that colleague responded that the first professor was indeed a fine scholar and teacher. ''But you know,'' he said, according to Mr. Loss, ''he's not really first rate. He never wrote a treatise.''
        Mr. Loss eventually decided that American securities law was too narrow a specialty, and in 1983 he was co-editor of a treatise on Japanese securities regulation.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Loss led an effort to write a uniform securities law for states; more than 30 states eventually adopted the uniform law he helped to devise.
        In the 1970's he spearheaded an effort, which eventually failed, to completely rewrite the securities laws, regulations and court decisions into one coherent statute. The 700-page bill was never approved by Congress, but it has still frequently been cited by courts seeking to interpret the existing laws.
        Mr. Loss was born on June 11, 1914,  in Lancaster, Pa., where he grew up. The son of emigres from Russia, he decided by the time he was a teen-ager that he wanted to be a lawyer and spent hours at the county courthouse watching lawyers in action. He was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1934 and then from Yale Law School in 1937.
        He joined the S.E.C. as a staff lawyer in 1937, three years after the agency was founded. He later said he was attracted to Washington by the excitement of the New Deal, and because he knew he could not go to the big Wall Street law firms because he was Jewish. He would eventually become the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Law at Harvard, a chair financed by one of those firms, Sullivan & Cromwell, in the name of one of its founders.
        At the S.E.C., where he worked until 1952, Mr. Loss rose to the rank of associate general counsel and wrote the first edition of ''Securities Regulation.'' He taught part time at Yale and George Washington law schools during his final years at the commission, and in 1952 became a professor at Harvard.
        He later turned down an offer in 1961 from President John F. Kennedy to become the S.E.C.'s chairman, choosing to remain at Harvard.
        While at the S.E.C. in 1939, Mr. Loss argued a case before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that established what became known as the ''shingle theory,'' holding that a brokerage firm, when it puts up its shingle to do business, implicitly promises that it will deal fairly with its customers and can be sanctioned if it fails to do so.
        At the time, many thought the theory audacious, and that the proper standard was one of ''let the investor beware.''
        Mr. Loss is survived by his wife, Bernice Segaloff Loss of Cambridge; a son, Robert S. Loss of Lexington, Mass.; a daughter, Margaret R. Loss of New York City; a sister, Anne Stein of Philadelphia, and three grandchildren.
      