
        John M. Braisted Jr., Staten Island's District Attorney from 1956 until he stepped down at the end of 1975, died on Dec. 9 at the home of his son, James, in West Brighton, Staten Island, where he had stayed for six days. He was 90 and lived on Staten Island in Silver Lake for more than 65 years.
        As District Attorney, Mr. Braisted, a Democrat, studied the mysterious murders of Dr. Melvin Nimer, who worked at a United States Public Health Service hospital, and his wife, Lou Jean Nimer, in 1958 at their home in Clifton on Staten Island. Mr. Braisted said in a statement in 1959 that the case remained open and that he had resisted ''unbelievable pressures'' from ''some newspapers'' to arrest their 8-year-old son, Melvin Dean Nimer, who had made statements that he had killed his parents.
        Mr. Braisted declared, ''I was not, and I am still not, satisfied that his statements were reliable and that the proof is sufficient'' that it was the boy who had fatally stabbed the couple. The boy's initial story was that a masked intruder had committed the killings after trying to strangle him.
        Dr. John N. Bowden of the Public Health Service said at the time of Mr. Braisted's statement that the mother's fatal wound was a forcible thrust through the rib cage. Dr. Norman Tarr, who had operated on her, said, ''It would take force to put this knife in as deeply as it went.'' Records also showed that the boy's neck had choke marks on it after the slayings.
        But a Republican political opponent, John A. Garbarino, asked why, if Mr. Braisted had doubts about the son's involvement, he had released ''damaging confidential psychiatric data'' on the boy.
        Mr. Braisted's family is descended from Dutch settlers named van Breestede who arrived on Staten Island in 1625. He was born and raised in Port Richmond on Staten Island  and received a bachelor's degree from Columbia and his law degree from Brooklyn Law School.
        He went on to practice trust-and-estates and real-estate law with his family law firm, Braisted & Braisted, founded in 1905 by his father.
        He was elected to the State Senate in 1947 in a special election and was returned to office in 1948 and 1950. But he was voted out of office in 1952.
        He resumed his law practice and then ran for district attorney in 1955. He defeated the Republican incumbent, Sidney O. Simonson, and was repeatedly re-elected, usually by comfortable margins, until he retired from the office after saying, ''Crime has been mounting steadily, and coping with it is a young man's job.'' Then, he practiced law with Braisted & Braisted until 1995.
        He was president of the State District Attorneys Association and of the Richmond County Bar Association and was a trustee of Wagner College. He was also the organist and choirmaster of the Reformed Church of Staten Island in Port Richmond for 64 years, until 1992.
        His wife of 56 years, the former Helen Pettigrew, died in 1987.
        In addition to his son James P., he is survived by another son, John M. 3d, of Todt Hill, Staten Island; a brother, Wesley W., of Chapel Hill, N.C.; nine grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      