
        Ralph Fasanella, who worked as a union organizer, a machinist and a gas station owner but whose lasting fame will be as a late-blooming, self-taught painter of teeming urban panoramas, died on Tuesday at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. He was 83 and lived in Ardsley, N.Y.
        After painting in relative obscurity for nearly 30 years, Mr. Fasanella became something of a celebrity in 1972, when his photograph appeared on a cover of New York magazine with the words: ''This man pumps gas in the Bronx for a living. He may also be the best primitive painter since Grandma Moses.''
        His large, extraordinarily detailed images depicted events that were variously personal, historical and, for New Yorkers at least, nearly universal. He captured on canvas such quintessential motifs as Coney Island, the subways at rush hour, baseball games at Yankee Stadium, stickball games in Greenwich Village and the Bronx and the San Gennaro festival.
        He disdained the word primitive, asking how it was possible to be primitive in post-industrial society, and his pictures were not simply idealized celebrations of the past. Rather, their bittersweet mood and crowded space also conveyed something of what the critic John Berger called ''the violence of the daily necessity of the streets,'' noting ''the way that the density of the working population makes itself felt.''
        Mr. Fasanella's political beliefs were more forthright in a series of paintings of New England mill towns, three of which covered the Lawrence, Mass., textile strike of 1912, and paintings of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg; the assassination of John F. Kennedy; the funeral of Vito Marcantonio, a leftist New York Congressman, and the interiors of union halls. He initially started working big -- sometimes on canvases as much as 10 feet across -- because he envisioned his paintings hanging in such halls.
        Mr. Fasanella came by all his subjects naturally. He was born in the Bronx on Labor Day in 1914, the fourth of six children of Italian immigrants from Apulia, and spent most of his boyhood in Greenwich Village.  His father worked as an iceman, his mother as a buttonhole maker. Mr. Fasanella once said that the compositional density of his pictures was influenced by the experience of helping his father deliver ice, which involved removing all the food from customers' refrigerators and arranging it in neatly ordered stacks.
        This job also halted his education at an early age and gave him an indelible sense of the plight of the worker. Mr. Fasanella later memorialized his father in paintings that showed him crucified, with ice tongs in place of a crown of thorns.
        After his father left the family and returned to Italy, Mr. Fasanella helped his mother put out a small Italian-language, anti-Fascist newspaper to help support the family. In 1938, he joined the Abraham Lincoln Brigade to fight with the Loyalists in the Spanish Civil War. In Madrid, the sight of some of William Blake's etchings sparked his interest in art.
        From 1940 to 1945, Mr. Fasanella worked as a union organizer for the United Electrical Workers of the C.I.O., organizing the Western Electric plant in Manhattan. In 1944, a friend suggested that he take up drawing to relieve the arthritis in his hands. It worked, and he was hooked.
        He learned to paint after persuading the union to organize painting classes for its members and signing up. His first solo show was at the ACA Galleries on East 57th Street in 1948. One of his first sales was to the choreographer Jerome Robbins.
        During the McCarthy years, Mr. Fasanella was blacklisted and found it virtually impossible to find work. His wife, Eva Lazorek, whom he married in 1950, was able to support him by teaching school. She survives him, as do a son, R. Marc Fasanella of Hampton Bays, N.Y.; a daughter, Gina Mastrando of Ossining, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        In 1957, another solo exhibition, at the James Gallery in Greenwich Village, brought encouraging reviews. Writing in The New York Times, Dore Ashton called his work ''entertaining and authentic'' and noted that his subjects were often ''interpreted with a critical edge.'' In Art News, the critic Lawrence Campbell wrote, ''He paints everything as if he were touching it.''
        The New York magazine article brought Mr. Fasanella so much attention that he left town, going to Lawrence to do research for the textile strike paintings. As he gradually became more successful, his admirers became concerned that all his work would end up in private collections. In 1988, Ron Carver, a union and community organizer, founded Public Domain and began raising money, often from small donations, to acquire Fasanella works from private collectors and donate them to public collections.
        By this method, the artist's work was placed in such public collections as the Ellis Island Immigration Museum; the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass.; the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.; the Heritage State Park Visitors Center in Lawrence, Mass.; the Museum of American Folk Art in New York City and, for a while, the  Capitol in Washington. This last painting, the 5-by-10-foot ''Lawrence, 1912 -- the Great Strike,'' was purchased by donations from 15 unions and given to Congress. It hung for  years in the hearing room for the House Subcommittee on Labor and Education. When the Republicans regained the majority, it was returned to the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        In 1985, the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art in Ithaca, N.Y., organized a retrospective of Mr. Fasanella's career. In 1996, ''Subway Riders,'' a work from 1950, was installed in the subway station at Fifth Avenue and 53d Street, one of the few oil paintings in the world permanently on view in a public transit system. Mr. Fasanella said the painting portrayed ''subway riders at night after a hard day's work.''
      