
        Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the ''bagman'' whose deadpan accounts of delivering money to buy the silence of Watergate conspirators both fascinated and delighted Senate investigators, died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79.
        Mr. Ulasewicz died in a hospital, a newspaper in Saratoga County, where he had spent much of his retirement, reported today.
        In the spring and summer of 1973, Mr. Ulasewicz, a saggy-jowled, droopy-eyed man who looked just like the retired New York City police detective he was, offered some much-needed comic relief at the Watergate hearings.
        Initiated to investigate wrongdoing in the Administration of President Richard M. Nixon after the 1972 break-in by White House operatives at the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee here, the hearings uncovered crimes that sent powerful men to prison and drove the President from office.
        But for his entertaining delivery, Mr. Ulasewicz (pronounced you-LASS-uh-wits) might have been just a peripheral and now long-forgotten figure in the nation's most serious political crisis. But the serious of the matter notwithstanding, his Senate interrogators laughed out loud.
        Mr. Ulasewicz, who retired from the New York City force in 1969, had friends in the Nixon Administration, and so he was recruited for a delicate mission. The man who recruited him was Herbert W. Kalmbach, Mr. Nixon's personal lawyer, the retired detective told the Senate hearing.
        The money, well over $200,000, was delivered in installments by Mr. Ulasewicz to some of the Watergate defendants. Mr. Ulasewicz told the senators he got it from a White House aide he knew and delivered it to Washington lawyers who represented the early Watergate defendants after the foiled break-in.
        Some of the money was reportedly destined for James W. McCord Jr., a Nixon campaign aide who had been arrested in the break-in, and for E. Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy, two men who conspired to set up the break-in. Testimony at the hearings brought out that the money was meant to buy the silence of the burglars and conspirators.
        Mr. Ulasewicz told of having problems making deliveries, toting cash around in a paper sack and having to constantly use to pay phones to straighten things out with the President's lawyer, Mr. Kalmbach.
        ''Were you loaded down with change?'' a Senate counsel asked.
        ''Oh, yes, indeed,'' the witness replied.
        ''How did you carry that change?''
        Fumbling for words, Mr. Ulasewicz said, ''I had a bus guy's, one of these things that the bus drivers have.''
        The retired detective further entertained the senators by hinting, then boasting, that in his police days he had known of undercover operations and money deliveries that were carried out far more skillfully.
        Bursting into laughter, Senator Howard Baker of Tennessee, the ranking Republican on the Senate investigating committee, asked, ''Who thought you up?''
        The hearings turned more sober when Mr. Ulasewicz acknowledged that his bagman role was part of a criminal enterprise.
        Several years after the Watergate hearings, he was sentenced to a year's probation for filing false income tax returns for 1971 and 1972.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; two sons, Thomas, of Lake Placid, N.Y., and Peter, of Chicago; three daughters, Antonette Nealon of Chestnut Ridge, Alice Lochmann of Smithtown and Mary Ulasewicz of Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif.; two brothers, and 11 grandchildren.
      