
        Chris Farley, a comedian and actor who hammed his way through skits and sketches on ''Saturday Night Live'' as everything from a frenzied motivational speaker to a giddy strip-club dancer, was found dead yesterday in his apartment in Chicago. He was 33.
        The cause was not immediately known, officials said, adding that an autopsy would be done today. Sgt. Robert Delaney of the Chicago police said there were no signs of foul play.
        The police said Mr. Farley's brother John called 911 after discovering Mr. Farley's body in the front room of the apartment, on the 60th floor of the 100-story John Hancock Building in downtown Chicago.
        Mr. Farley's performances had an edgy physicality that reminded some viewers of a star from an earlier generation of ''Saturday Night Live,'' John Belushi, who died of a drug overdose in 1982, also at 33. But Mr. Farley was one of a handful of more recent ''Saturday Night Live'' performers who had traded success on the show for success in Hollywood movies. After small roles in the two ''Wayne's World'' comedies and ''The Coneheads,'' Mr. Farley starred in ''Airheads'' in 1994, ''Billy Madison'' and ''Tommy Boy'' in 1995, ''Black Sheep'' in 1996 and ''Beverly Hills Ninja'' this year. He was scheduled to appear in at least three more movies.
        But his life sometimes seemed as out of control as the characters that made his audiences roar. Mr. Farley, uncouth, untamed and unapologetic onstage, seemed to struggle with the realities of his life offstage, even after he went from playing a half-witted talk show host and impersonating a Gap saleswoman on ''Saturday Night Live'' to commanding $5 million a movie in Hollywood.
        ''I used to think that you could get to a level of success where the laws of the universe didn't apply,'' Mr. Farley said in an interview in the September issue of Playboy. ''But they do. It's still life on life's terms, not on movie-star terms. I still have to work at relationships. I still have to work on my weight and some of my other demons. Once I thought that if I just had enough in the bank, if I had enough fame, that it would be all right. But I'm a human being like everyone else. I'm not exempt.''
        He also said, ''I seem to get motivated a few months at a time, and then something stressful breaks the routine and I just fold. It's really hard for me to get back on track again.''
        Mr. Farley grew up in Madison, Wis., where he had a reputation as the class clown.
        ''I remember one time when all the nuns in my Catholic grade school got around in a semicircle, me and Mom in the middle, and they said, 'Mrs. Farley, the children at school are laughing at Christopher, not with him.' I thought, 'Who cares? As long as they're laughing.' ''
        He went on to crack jokes behind professors' backs at Marquette University, from which he graduated in 1986, before studying under an improvisational comedy coach, Del Close. Soon Mr. Farley joined Chicago's Second City comedy troupe, which called him ''talented, funny, gifted and kind'' in a statement yesterday. There he developed anguished characters and excelled at the group's brand of sketch comedy.
        He is survived by his parents, Tom and Marianne, of Madison; three brothers, John, of Chicago; Kevin, of Los Angeles, and Tom, and a sister, Barbara, of Madison.
        Lorne Michaels, the producer of ''Saturday Night Live,'' hired Mr. Farley for the 1990 season. He remained with the show until 1995. His loutishness on camera was offset by the fastidiousness of other performers, like David Spade.
        But Mr. Farley was well aware that he was following a career path that had been traveled by stars he had once revered.
        ''It was weird, that's for sure, when I first came on to the studio, 8H, and saw all the pictures on the wall, all my heroes,'' he said in 1995. ''It was pretty frightening.''
      