
        R. V. Jones, a secret hero of British intelligence in World War II, whose genius for scientific tricks baffled German bombers and saved thousands of lives, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Woodend Hospital in Aberdeen, Scotland. He was 86.
        A master practical joker, puzzle-solver, hoaxer and harmonica player (one retired spymaster fondly remembered him playing Scottish airs at a crowded Chinese restaurant), Reginald Victor Jones turned his whimsy into a devastating weapon in wartime.
        He was recognized -- at least by the world's intelligence services -- as the father of electronic warfare, a pioneer in technology to mystify, mislead and surprise the enemy.
        ''He did more to save us from disaster than many who are glittering with trinkets,'' Winston Churchill said.
        Born in 1911, the son of a London postman, he won a scholarship to Oxford and received a doctorate in physics at 23. When World War II began, Mr. Jones was 28 and one of the few British scientists who instinctively understood the new technology of radar. Out of necessity, he invented ways to divert German bombers from British targets.
        As a scientific adviser to the British foreign intelligence service MI-6, and a science officer for the Air Ministry, Mr. Jones was asked to solve a series of mysteries. The first was: Do the Germans have radar?
        They did, Mr. Jones determined -- and the British could do something about it.
        He figured that radio beams guided German pilots blitzing Britain. These beams were code-named ''Headaches.'' Mr. Jones, divining the patterns of dots and dashes that guided the German pilots, devised a solution, code-named ''Aspirin.'' Using cobbled-together equipment, he jammed the pilots' ears with electronic nonsense, tricking the attacking Luftwaffe into taking aim at open fields or lakes instead of cities.
        ''His contribution to the Battle of Britain was unmatched,'' said R. James Woolsey Jr., a former Director of Central Intelligence. ''Without the battle of the beams, it could have gone the other way. And he did it singlehandedly. And he did it against the opposition of much of the bureaucracy.''
        Mr. Jones turned his attention to destroying German air defenses with trickery. By dropping shredded tinfoil into the skies, British pilots could turn German radar screens into a nightmarish kaleidoscope. On July 24, 1943, 743 Allied bombers flew into German air space -- and dropped 40 tons of tinfoil, 92 million strips of it, into the night air. Horrified German radar operators saw 11,000 bombers on their screens.
        At the height of the war's undersea battles, Mr. Jones deceived German submarine operators with bogus radio traffic. He convinced them that there was a secret infrared sensor picking up their underwater routes, when all the time it was Allied code-breaking that tracked them.
        ''Deception was Reg's forte,'' Mr. Woolsey said. ''He did not have any trouble speaking truth to power. He didn't know any other way. This may be one of the reasons he was formally unrecognized for so long.''
        In fact, until he was in his 80's, Mr. Jones received little honor in his own country. He left government service to teach at Aberdeen University from 1946 to 1981. But he was not without honor in the intelligence fraternity. In the United States, in 1993, Mr. Woolsey created the R. V. Jones Intelligence Award, given for ''scientific acumen applied with art in the cause of freedom.'' Mr. Jones was its first recipient.
        The British soon made him a Companion of Honor, the second-highest civilian award, which can be held by only 25 living people.
        Mr. Jones is survived by a son, Robert, and a daughter, Rosemary. His wife, Vera, and a second daughter, Susan, both died in 1992.
      