
        Cal Abrams, a Brooklyn Dodger outfielder whose otherwise ordinary career was punctuated by an extraordinary moment underlining the Brooklyn fans' lament, ''Wait Till Next Year,'' died on Tuesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 72.
        Abrams, who lived in Tamarac, Fla., died at North Ridge Medical Center after having suffered a heart attack, his wife, May, said.
        The Dodgers brought Abrams up in 1949, hoping he would be a popular figure. He had graduated from James Madison High School, not far from Ebbets Field. Being Jewish, he would presumably have a special appeal for many Brooklyn fans. A New York Post headline once read: ''Mantle, Schmantle. We Got Abie.''
        But Abrams would never be a regular since he had to compete with the likes of Duke Snider and Carl Furillo.
        He would long be remembered, however, as the victim in a basepath fiasco on the final Sunday of the 1950 season.
        The Dodgers needed to beat the first-place Philadelphia Phillies twice at Ebbets Field, on the final Saturday and Sunday of the regular season, to gain a tie for the pennant and force a playoff series.
        Brooklyn stayed alive by winning on Saturday. The score was tied at 1-1 in the bottom of the ninth inning of Sunday's game. Abrams led off with a walk and took second on a single by Pee Wee Reese. Snider followed with a single to center field. The Phillies' Richie Ashburn grabbed the ball on one bounce in short center field, but he did not have a strong arm. So Milton Stock, the third-base coach, sent Abrams to the plate instead of settling for bases loaded and nobody out. Ashburn delivered a perfect throw to the catcher, Stan Lopata, and Abrams was out by at least 10 feet. The Dodgers never scored in the inning.
        In the top of the 10th, Philadelphia's Dick Sisler hit a three-run homer off Don Newcombe, and the Phils -- known as the Whiz Kids -- went on to a 4-1 victory, giving Philadelphia its first pennant since 1915.
        The Abrams play would rankle in the memories of Brooklyn fans -- behind Mickey Owen's passed ball in the 1941 World Series and Bobby Thomson's home run in 1951 -- as disasters amid the triumphs of the Dodgers' glory years.
        Abrams remained with the Dodgers into the 1952 season, though the coach who sent him home was soon fired. Abrams later played for the Reds, Pirates, Orioles and White Sox, retiring after the 1956 season. He had a career batting average of .269.
        He once told a story that illustrated how he was overshadowed by the Dodgers' stars despite his memorable moment. Abrams recalled a scheme he engineered to earn extra cash. It involved Happy Felton's ''Knot Hole Gang'' pre-game television show, in which a Dodger player would work out with three sandlot youngsters. The player would get $50. The boy selected as the best of the three would come back the next day, go to the Brooklyn dugout and talk to his favorite Dodger, who would also get $50.
        One day, Abrams was picked to play catch with the youngsters. As he told it: ''I got hold of this one kid, and I said, 'Look, I'm going to pick you as the best fielder, and in turn I want you to say that you want to talk to me in the dugout.' That way I would get an extra $50. So he said, 'All right.'
        ''And so I was throwing the ball to the three kids, and Happy Felton says: 'Cal, who do you think is going to make it?' I said, 'No. 3.' And the kid I had made the deal with comes over, and Happy says, 'Congratulations, here's an autographed ball, a Baby Ruth candy bar. Now who do you want to talk to in the dugout?'
        ''I'm waiting out there, and the kid says: 'Carl Furillo.' ''
        In addition to his wife, Abrams is survived by two sons, Jeff of Seal Beach, Calif., and David of Sunrise, Fla.; two daughters, Ellen Abrams and Caren Alan, both of New York, and five grandchildren.
        He will be buried in his Dodger uniform: No. 18.
      