
        Owen Barfield, a writer and philosopher of language and the last surviving member of the Inklings, a group of Oxford intellectuals who held passionate discussions about Christianity and mythology at C. S. Lewis's house between the world wars, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Sunday, friends said. He was 99.
        Mr. Barfield, whose work was greatly admired by T. S. Eliot and J. R. R. Tolkien, among others, was credited with helping Lewis make his celebrated transition from atheism to Christianity and was known for his  works on language and the evolution of human consciousness.
        He was born in 1898, to a father who was a lawyer and a mother who was a feminist and suffragette. At Oxford he met Lewis, who became his closest friend and favorite intellectual sparring partner. ''Barfield towers above us all!'' Lewis wrote in his diary while both were undergraduates, and later called Mr. Barfield ''the wisest and best of my unofficial teachers.''
        Mr. Barfield experienced an intellectual epiphany at Oxford while studying the Romantic poets and being struck by the transforming force of language. ''What impressed me particularly was the power with which not so much whole poems as particular combinations of words worked on my mind,'' he wrote in 1966. ''It seemed there was some magic in it; and a magic which not only gave me pleasure but also reacted on and expanded the meanings of the individual words concerned.''
        But while he published a large number of essays on a range of social and political themes, he became discouraged about his prospects as a writer after failing to find a publisher for his first novel. In the mid-1930's, he joined his father's law firm, Barfield & Barfield, and remained there until retiring from the law in 1959. He wrote most of his books after his retirement and spent a great deal of time in the United States.
        But he remains best known for his close association with Lewis, recreationally as well as intellectually (the two men loved to hike and called themselves the ''cretaceous perambulators.'') Mr. Barfield once said that trying to keep up with Lewis's quick wit and sharp mind was ''like trying to run along beside a motorcar in top gear.''
        But Lewis -- who dedicated his children's book ''The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe'' to Mr. Barfield's daughter, Lucy -- found his friend just as challenging. ''He is as fascinating (and infuriating) as a woman,'' Lewis wrote of Mr. Barfield in his 1956 memoir ''Surprised by Joy.'' ''When you set out to correct his heresies, you find he forsooth has decided to correct yours! And then you go at it, hammer and tongs, far into the night.''
        The many works of Mr. Barfield, who is survived by his daughter and  two sons, included ''Poetic Diction: A Study in Meaning'' (1928), in which he explored the history of words and which had a profound influence on  Tolkien, another of the Inklings, and ''Saving the Appearances'' (1957), in which he discussed the disparity between normal human consciousness and the mind of the scientist in comprehending familiar phenomena of the universe.
      