
        Dr. Ernst F. Jokl, a founder of sports medicine in Germany, South Africa and then the United States, died last Saturday in St. Joseph Hospital in Lexington, Ky. He was 90.
        In an earlier time, sports injuries, like many other medical problems, were handled by general practitioners. Now they are treated mostly by sports-medicine specialists, many of whom are orthopedists. Dr. Jokl was not a surgeon, but a specialist in internal medicine and neurology.
        In 1954, he helped found the American College of Sports Medicine, and in 1960 he was a founder of Unesco's International Council of Sport and Physical Education. Even in retirement, he continued until his early 80's to lecture throughout the world.
        On Aug. 2, in a tribute during Dr. Jokl's 90th birthday celebration in Lexington, Dr. Marcel Hebbelinck of Belgium, a colleague on the Unesco council, cited an official history of sports medicine titled ''Science in the Service of Physical Education and Sport,'' published in 1966. He said the book quoted Dr. Jokl more than 30 times.
        Dr. Jokl was the author, editor or both of 27 books and published 261 scientific papers. Buildings were named for him in Poland and South Africa, and a square was named for him in Cologne, Germany.
        Ernst Franz Jokl (pronounced JOKE-el) was born Aug. 3, 1907, in Breslau, Germany, now Wroclaw, Poland. He made the 1928 German Olympic team as an alternate in the 400-meter hurdles, but did not compete. At those Olympics, Erica Lestmann of Germany won a gold medal in exhibition team gymnastics. In 1930, she and Dr. Jokl met, and a romance began.
        Two years later, because Dr. Jokl was a Jew, he was dismissed as the director of the Institute of Sports Medicine in Breslau, believed to be the first of its kind in the world. At the same time, Ms. Lestmann, from an affluent Lutheran family, lost her job as a high school teacher because she refused to offer a Nazi salute during a track meet in Berlin.
        The day she was dismissed, she and Dr. Jokl decided to marry. Two weeks later, they left Germany and moved to South Africa.
        There, Dr. Jokl established a physical education curriculum for South African schools, emphasizing that it be required not only for white boys, but also for white girls and nonwhite boys and girls. He made the nation so conscious of exercise that a word for it was invented. ''Jokkel,'' meaning ''to exercise,'' found its way into the Afrikaans National Dictionary.
        With the institutionalizing of harsh racial policies in South Africa in 1948, the Jokls soon immigrated to the United States, where he was a faculty member of the University of Kentucky for the rest of his life.
        From 1952 to 1964, he was professor of neurology and sports medicine and director of the university's Medical Rehabilitation Center. He was named distinguished professor in 1964 and distinguished professor emeritus in 1995. He was also director of the university's Exercise Research Laboratory and a consultant and team physician for the United States Olympic Committee.
        Dr. Jokl is survived by his wife; his son, of Madison, Conn.; a daughter, Marion Jokl Ball of Baltimore; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      