
        William J. Weisz, a former chairman and chief executive of Motorola Inc., who played a leading role in the electronics company's rapid growth during the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at his home outside Phoenix. He was 70.
        Mr. Weisz apparently died of a heart attack, the company said in a statement from its headquarters in the Chicago suburb of Schaumburg.
        Mr. Weisz spent his entire career at Motorola, arriving immediately after graduating with a degree in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1948. He was especially influential in Motorola's drive to apply electronics technology to pagers, portable telephones and two-way radios, all products in which the company has become a world leader.
        ''Bill had a remarkable knowledge and understanding of technology, combined with an ability to communicate the possibilities of that technology to customers and decision-makers throughout the world,'' said Gary Tooker, Motorola's current chairman. ''His efforts to improve the use of the radio frequency spectrum helped to set the stage for global wireless communications.''
        Mr. Weisz was the manager of a project developing a new portable radio by the mid-1950's when he first caught the eye of Paul Galvin, the company's founder.
        ''My father and I were at a technology review with the communications group, and after Bill talked, my father nudged me with his elbow and said, 'Watch that kid -- he's going someplace,' '' recalled Mr. Galvin's son, Robert, who later became chairman and chief executive and promoted Mr. Weisz into senior management.
        Robert Galvin also said that Mr. Weisz had combined his technical expertise and intelligence with a personality ''as easygoing as the proverbial old shoe.'' As a result, Motorola workers felt comfortable having technical disputes with him or in his presence, Mr. Galvin said. That helped create Motorola's corporate culture, widely known for encouraging internal debate and reconsidering technologies it initially rejected.
        Mr. Weisz could be found in the company cafeteria for lunch every day with fellow senior executives, their shirt-sleeves rolled up and pagers strapped to their hips.
        He was an admirer of the football coach Vince Lombardi and often quoted him in ''philosophy memos'' to subordinates, using phrases like: ''Failure is not falling down. It is failing to get back up -- quickly!''
        William Julius Weisz was born in Chicago, the son of George and Minnie Weisz. His father was a dentist. After graduating from Lane Technical High School, he served briefly in the Navy before attending M.I.T.
        Mr. Weisz became president of Motorola in 1970 and chief operating officer two years later. He added the title of vice chairman in 1980. When Robert Galvin stepped down as chief executive in 1986, he became chief executive for two years as part of a planned transition to a younger generation of leaders.
        He retained the title of vice chairman when he retired to Arizona at the end of 1989 but was asked to serve temporarily as chairman in 1993 when George M. C. Fisher, then chairman and chief executive, suddenly left the company to take over the Eastman Kodak Company. When Mr. Weisz finally retired from the board for good this year, he continued to teach at Motorola University, the company's training center.
        Most of Mr. Weisz's years in senior management were spent as part of a triumvirate with Robert Galvin and John F. Mitchell. Like his colleagues, Mr. Weisz was a frequent and vocal advocate of trade policies that put pressure on foreign countries to lower trade barriers. He often served on industry and Government committees, including the Defense Policy Advisory Committee on Trade.
        Outside of work, Mr. Weisz was active in work for M.I.T., various civic groups, the Boy Scouts of America and the Junior Chamber of Commerce.
        Mr. Weisz married Barbara Becker on Christmas Day 1947. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, David, of Chicago, another son, George, and a daughter, Terri, both of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      