
        R. Stanton Avery, the inventor of the self-adhesive label and founder of what is now the Avery Dennison Corporation, died Dec. 12 at Huntington Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 90.
        In 1935, Stan Avery, as he was known, invented a machine to make self-adhesive labels with a $100 capital investment from Dorothy Durfee, a schoolteacher and his future wife. He used a motor from a washing machine, parts from a sewing machine and a saber saw.
        Today, the company makes pressure-sensitive, self-adhesive labels for consumer and office use under the Avery brand name; labels for commercial products like shampoo containers and cars, and is a major supplier of the Postal Service's self-adhesive stamps.
        Sales in 1996 were $3.2 billion, and, through the first nine months of this year, $2.5 billion.
        The company started by Mr. Avery in 1935 was initially called Kum Kleen Products and was renamed Avery Adhesives in 1936. Several corporate name changes since have included Avery International in 1976 during a period of expansion overseas, and Avery Dennison after a merger in 1990 with Dennison Manufacturing, an office-products company.
        Over the years, Mr. Avery improved both the finished product and the manufacturing process. He developed synthetic adhesives and a quick-release coating for the label backing sheet -- which makes it easier to peel off individual labels -- and developed a production process for printing an entire label run in one production line, as opposed to two or three stages. He received 18 patents.
        Mr. Avery graduated from Pomona College, east of Los Angeles, with a humanities degree in 1932. He retired as chief executive and chairman of Avery Dennison in 1977, and served on the board until 1995.
        Mr. Avery was known for philanthropy in Southern California, and has supported the California Institute of Technology, the Huntington Library and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
        He is survived by a daughter, Judith Avery Newkirk of Los Angeles; two sons, Dennis Stanton of San Diego and Russell Durfee of Los Angeles; 10 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren. Mr. Avery's first wife, Dorothy, died in 1964; his second wife, Ernestine Onderdonk, died in June.
      