
        Adm. David Lamar McDonald, who commanded American naval forces as the United States' involvement in Vietnam rose and crested, died on Dec. 16 at Baptist Medical Center-Beaches in Jacksonville Beach, Fla. He was 91.
        As Chief of Naval Operations from 1963 to 1967, Admiral McDonald was the Navy's senior officer, commanding 670,000 officers and enlisted personnel, 870 ships and 7,200 aircraft. He was a soft-spoken man who took a traditional and firm military stance, including a belief that even in a modern age of doomsday weapons, it was important to train and maintain a substantial number of uniformed sailors and fliers to protect the United States' vital interests.
        He defended the importance of American sea power, and he argued that naval bombing offensives in North Vietnam saved American lives in South Vietnam. He was awarded a Gold Star, in lieu of a second Distinguished Service Medal, for his service as Chief of Naval Operations.
        Admiral McDonald, a native of Mayfield, Ga., entered the United States Naval Academy in 1924. He earned academic honors that marked the beginning of his versatile and distinguished 39-year Navy career, which culminated with his appointment by President John F. Kennedy to a four-year tour of duty as the 17th Chief of Naval Operations.
        In his varied career, he served as an ensign aboard the Mississippi and the Colorado before becoming a naval aviator.
        The future admiral spent three years, from 1935 to 1938, as a flight instructor at the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, Fla. As the importance of air power grew within the armed services, this position gave him experience that was viewed as a prerequisite to ascending the ranks of the Navy. Between 1938 and 1955, he served as flag secretary of the aircraft command of the Atlantic Fleet, commander of the Naval Operational Training Command, executive officer of the carrier Essex in the Pacific and assistant chief of staff for operations of the Pacific Fleet.
        Before being named Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral McDonald also served as commander of the Sixth Fleet and United States naval forces in Europe, as well as commander in chief of the Navy forces in the eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean.
        Adm. Jay L. Johnson, the current Chief of Naval Operations, dedicated an airfield in Admiral McDonald's name earlier this year.
        Admiral McDonald is survived by a daughter, Mary Lou Thornton of Atlantic Beach, Fla.; a son, the Rev. Thomas McDonald of Orange, Calif..; two grandsons, and six great-grandchildren.
      