
        Richard Clark McCurdy, a former president of the Shell Oil Company and an avid sailor who helped develop ways to handicap yacht racing and make it safer, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Darien, Conn., his daughter, Carolyn Wilson, said. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. McCurdy, who was president of Shell from 1965 to 1974, had a large impact on the company by expanding it quickly and investing heavily to upgrade its refineries.
        An engineer by training, he emphasized using science and research to find oil and natural gas. He built up Shell's research, hiring many Ph.D.'s for laboratory work. He also believed in being out in the field for firsthand knowledge.
        Mr. McCurdy grew up in Pasadena, Calif., where he developed a lifelong interest in astronomy. Friends recalled that he built his own telescope and that he would drag them out of their houses to witness eclipses. After graduating from Stanford University in 1933 with a degree in petroleum engineering, he went to work as a laborer for Shell in the California oilfields.
        He became an expert on using electric logging devices to seek oil. In 1947 he went to Venezuela to run the Shell group's exploration and production.
        ''I feel sorry for anyone who graduates from a fancy business school and then goes straight to work in an office,'' he said later.
        After leaving Shell in 1974, he went to work for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, where he helped decide which projects to retain when funds were cut after the landing on the moon.
        He also used his scientific skills to help make yacht racing fairer and safer. After 15 competitors died when a storm struck during the Fastnet Race in England in 1979, he began research that led to major improvements in the stability of yachts.
        He also applied a scientific approach to developing a system of handicapping different types of yachts racing in a single event. The system he developed became known as the International Measurement System and is still being used.
        Even after Shell moved its headquarters from New York to Houston -- a move in which he played a role -- Mr. McCurdy kept his home on Contentment Island off the Connecticut coast to continue sailing.
        Mr. McCurdy's wife, the former Harriet Edith Sutton, died 10 years ago. In addition to his daughter, Carolyn, of New Canaan, Conn., he is survived by two sons, Gregor B., of Rockville, Md., and Richard, of Darien, and four grandchildren.
      