
        Toshiro Mifune, the most internationally celebrated of Japanese film actors, whose work, particularly for the director Akira Kurosawa, galvanized generations of performers in the United States and around the world, died yesterday at a hospital in Mitaka, near his home in Tokyo. He was 77.
        The Kyodo news agency reported that Mr. Mifune had died of organ failure, without providing details.
        In more than 120 films, 16 of them for Mr. Kurosawa, Mr. Mifune (pronounced Mih-FOO-neh) displayed both a screen-idol magnetism and an astonishing range stretching from classical tragedy to light comedy. But he was best known for his emblematic role as the down-on-his-luck samurai, sometimes arrogant, sometimes bemused, who wanders into a lawless village and sets matters  right, much in the fashion of the American westerns that both Mr. Mifune and Mr. Kurosawa admired.
        In ''Rashomon,'' ''Yojimbo,'' ''Sanjuro'' and particularly in Mr. Kurosawa's epic ''Seven Samurai,'' Mr. Mifune's complicated, scraggly loner was one of the chief archetypes for three decades of screen heroes in Japan and around the world.
        His screen persona had deep roots in classical Japanese drama. It was a cinematic expression of a long-standing dramatic figure known as the tateyaku, a heroic leading man emerging from medieval samurai tales and epic military romances. In contrast to the nimaime, a more soft-spoken and romantic hero, the tateyaku is courageous, iron-willed and self-sacrificing. To this, Mr. Mifune brought a sense of ironic self-knowledge and intense sexuality.
        He appeared in relatively few films outside Japan and may be best known to many Americans as the warlord Toranaga, in the 1980 television mini-series adaptation of James Clavell's ''Shogun.''
        But he also played a Japanese sailor stranded on a tropical island with an American sailor, Lee Marvin, in John Boorman's ''Hell in the Pacific'' (1968); an industrialist sponsoring a racing team in John Frankheimer's ''Grand Prix'' (1966), and a bumbling submarine commander in Steven Spielberg's ''1941'' (1979).
        Born to Japanese parents in the Chinese province of Manchuria, Mr. Mifune joined the Japanese Imperial Air Force in 1939. He later recounted a less than sterling military career that he said was dominated by fear and drudgery. ''These big laborer's hands of mine are my unwanted souvenir of that time,'' he once told an interviewer.
        Yet like a number of Hollywood stars who had uneven military careers during World War II, Mr. Mifune specialized in portraying military heroes. In particular, he played Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, who planned the attack on Pearl Harbor, in several Japanese films, including ''Storm Over the Pacific'' (1960). He played the same role, in a less heroic vein, in the American-made ''Midway'' (1976).
        After the war, Mr. Mifune found his way to Tokyo, where he showed up with several hundred other aspiring actors at Toho Studios, Japanese largest film production company, which was conducting a nationwide talent search it called ''Wanted: New Faces.''
        Though he knew the talent search was under way, Mr. Kurosawa recalled in his autobiography, he was too busy to attend. But the director was approached by an actress he knew who told him: ''There's one who's really fantastic. But he's something of a roughneck. Won't you come have a look?''
        Mr. Kurosawa said he bolted down his lunch and rushed to the audition room.
        ''A young man was reeling around the room in a violent frenzy,'' he  recounted. ''It was as frightening as watching a wounded or trapped savage beast trying to break loose. I stood transfixed. But it turned out that this young man was not really in a rage, but had drawn 'anger' as the emotion he had to express in his screen test. He was acting. When he finished his performance, he regained his chair and with an exhausted demeanor, flopped down and began to glare menacingly at the judges. Now, I know very well that this kind of behavior was a cover for shyness, but the jury seemed to be interpreting it as disrespect.''
        When the jury voted to reject Mr.  Mifune, Mr. Kurosawa spoke on his behalf and barely succeeded in convincing the others to sign the young actor to a studio contract.
        ''I am a person rarely impressed by actors,'' Mr. Kurosawa later said. ''But in the case of Mifune I was completely overwhelmed.''
        Mr. Mifune played small roles in two films in 1946 and 1947 before Mr. Kurosawa cast him in ''Drunken Angel'' (1948), a neo-realist drama about an alcoholic doctor struggling to save slum dwellers from the ravages of poverty and squalor. Mr. Mifune played a cocky gangster stricken with tuberculosis.
        The film established the director as one of Japan's most promising and made Mr. Mifune an instant star. Between 1948 and 1965, Mr. Kurosawa made 17 films; all but one starred Mr. Mifune.
        In ''The Quiet Duel'' (1949), Mr. Mifune played a wartime doctor who accidentally contracts syphilis while operating on a soldier; in ''Stray Dog'' (1949), he is a detective searching for his lost revolver; in ''Scandal,'' an indictment of yellow journalism, he is a painter whose innocent meeting with a famous singer is sensationalized by gossip sheets.
        It was in 1950 that Mr. Mifune first put on a sword for Mr. Kurosawa in ''Rashomon,'' the frequently imitated film about the elasticity of truth that made both of their international reputations and earned Mr. Kurosawa the Oscar for best foreign film.
        In ''The Seven Samurai'' (1954), Mr. Mifune played the role that was always his favorite: Kikuchiyo, the preening samurai who rises to heroism in the film's climactic battle.
        Mr. Mifune also starred in Kurosawa adaptations of three foreign classics: Dostoyevsky's ''Idiot'' in 1951,  Gorky's ''Lower Depths'' in 1957 and ''Throne of Blood,'' a breathtakingly atmospheric adaptation of ''Macbeth,'' in 1957.
        George Lucas has credited Mr. Kurosawa's ''Hidden Fortress'' (1958) with being one of the inspirations for his ''Star Wars'' films. In it, Mr. Mifune plays a general trying to lead a young princess through enemy territory with the help of two bumbling farmers.
        Mr. Mifune returned to samurai roles with Mr. Kurosawa's ''Yojimbo'' in 1961, a somewhat comic adventure about a samurai with no name who pits two rival gangs against each other in a small village. It was remade by director Sergio Leone as ''A Fistful of Dollars,'' starring Clint Eastwood.
        ''Yojimbo'' was such a huge success in Japan that Mr. Kurosawa followed it up by having Mr. Mifune play another scraggly samurai in ''Sanjuro'' (1962).
        Mr. Mifune was chosen best actor of the year at the Venice Film Festival for his role in ''Yojimbo,'' and won the award again in 1965 for playing a medieval medical administrator in ''Red Beard,'' the last film he made with Mr. Kurosawa.
        Mr. Mifune married Takeshi Shiro in 1950, and they had two sons.
        Though Mr. Mifune is best known for films made by Mr. Kurosawa, he worked for other leading Japanese directors. In 1952, he was in Kenji Mizoguchi's ''Life of Oharu.'' And he acted for Hiroshi Inagaki in ''Miyamoto'' (1954), among other films.
        In 1963, Mr. Mifune formed his own company, Mifune Productions, and directed its first effort, ''The Legacy of the 500,000.'' He never directed again, though his company continued to produce films and television programs and later established an acting school.
        Through the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Mifune appeared in numerous samurai films, and his character was sometimes darker than it had been in Mr. Kurosawa's epics. The films developed a cult following on American campuses. In the 1970's, it was Mr. Mifune's samurai hero who was lampooned by John Belushi in several ''Saturday Night Live'' skits.
        In 1984, a Japanese magazine conducted a survey to determine who its readers thought best epitomized Japanese manhood and its ideals of pride, power and virility. Their choice: Toshiro Mifune.
        ''It was, above all, the speed with which he expressed himself that was astounding,'' Mr. Kurosawa wrote in ''Something Like an Autobiography.'' ''The ordinary Japanese actor might need 10 feet of film to get across an impression. Mifune needed only 3 feet. The speed of his movements was such that he said in a single action what took ordinary actors three separate movements to express.''
      