
        Bernard Schwartz, a legal scholar and prolific historian who helped lawyers and lay readers alike to fathom the inner workings of the American system of government and particularly those of the Supreme Court, died on Tuesday in Tulsa, Okla., where he had lived for the last five years. He was 74.
        He was struck by a car after stepping off a bus on his way to a restaurant and never regained consciousness. He was pronounced dead at St. Joseph's Hospital, said Martin H. Belsky, dean of the University of Tulsa Law School. The driver was questioned by the police at the scene and no charges were filed, Dean  Belsky said.
        Mr. Schwartz served on the law faculty of New York University for 45 years before retiring in 1992 as Edwin D. Webb Professor of Law. He was later appointed the Chapman Distinguished Professor of Law in Tulsa.
        A native New Yorker, he was the author of more than 60 books, most of them in print, and hundreds of articles, about subjects ranging from the Napoleonic Code to Federal regulatory agencies. But his best-known writings focused on the Supreme Court and the mysteries behind the Justices and their thoughts.
        Scholars and journalists have frequently sought to understand the exchanges among the members of the Court and the reasoning that went into benchmark decisions. None have been more persistent and effective than Mr. Schwartz, who pursued his quarry in interviews with Justices and their law clerks, past and present. He pored over neglected conference records, docket books, correspondence, notes, memorandums and draft opinions.
        The results appeared in ''The Unpublished Opinions of the Warren Court'' (1985), and companion volumes for the Burger (1988) and Rehnquist (1996) Courts, all published by Oxford University Press. His biggest seller was ''Decision: How the Supreme Court Decides Cases'' (1996).
        In a preface to the book, he ruefully noted that it might ''be the last of its kind -- for some time at least.'' The reason, he wrote, was that the insights into the deliberative process that had been liberally provided by former Justice William J. Brennan Jr. upset members of the Rehnquist Court, who prompted Justice Brennan to close his files, at least as far as they concerned those currently on the bench.
        But the Court did the author the rare honor last month of inviting him to speak in the Supreme Court chamber on ''Earl Warren: Super Chief in Action.'' His lecture was broadcast by C-Span last weekend.
        Just over the past academic year Mr. Schwartz also produced ''The Warren Court: A Retrospective,'' ''Reason and Passion: Justice Brennan's Enduring Influence,'' and ''A Book of Legal Lists: The Best and Worst in American Law with 150 Court and Judge Trivia Questions.'' Most recently he finished ''Thomas Jefferson and Bolling v. Bolling: Law and the Legal Profession in Pre-Revolutionary America.''
        Dean Belsky said that at his death Mr. Schwartz was conducting an overview of American legal history of the 20th century in its totality and preparing for a conference on the Rehnquist Court next year.
        Mr. Schwartz was also the author of the widely read ''Swann's Way: The School Busing Case and the Supreme Court'' (1986), and ''Behind Bakke: The Supreme Court and Affirmative Action'' (1988).
        He wrote a five-volume ''Commentary on the Constitution of the United States'' (1963-68), as well as ''Constitutional Law: A Textbook'' (2d ed., 1979) and ''Administrative Law'' (3d ed., 1991). His ''Administrative Law: A Casebook'' went to its fourth edition in 1994.
        Bernard Schwartz graduated Phi Beta Kappa from City College and received an LL.B. with highest grades from N.Y.U. in 1944. He earned an LL.M. at Harvard University in 1945, followed by a doctorate  in 1947 and an LL.D. in 1956 from Cambridge University. He also held a doctorat d'universite (1963) from the University of Paris.
        Admitted to the New York bar in 1945 he joined the N.Y.U. faculty two years later. During a leave of absence in the late 1950's he served as chief counsel to a special House subcommittee on legislative oversight looking for misconduct in Federal regulatory agencies.
        His investigative zeal caused enough outrage for the House to dismiss him after an abrasive six months, but the episode did not diminish his career as an author and teacher. N.Y.U. Law School appointed him Webb Professor in 1963, a post he held for nearly 30 years.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Aileen Haas Schwartz, a retired judge of New York Family Court, and their son, Brian, of Manhattan.
      