
        Mikel Cardinal Koliqi of Albania, who spent decades in confinement during the rigidly Stalinist era of his homeland, died on Tuesday in Shkoder. He was 94.
        Cardinal Koliqi regained his freedom in 1986 after a total of 38 years in jails and labor camps. Pope John Paul II, who elevated him to the College of Cardinals in November 1994, took note last week of his stature as a ''fearless pastor'' and ''heroic priest'' who had endured ''so much suffering.''
        The Pope had sought out and embraced Father Koliqi during a visit to Albania in 1993. At the time of his elevation, the Catholic News Service reported from Rome that it was ''a symbolic gesture of church gratitude'' to someone who kept up not just his faith but an underground pastoral ministry when all religion was outlawed in his country.
        Cardinal Koliqi donned the traditional red hat at an unusually late stage of life. He was one of the 30 new cardinals installed that year as part of a continuing effort to broaden the constituency of the college beyond its traditionally Italian membership. He was the first Albanian ever to become a cardinal.
        Under an apostolic fiat of 1976, he was too old -- over 80 -- to take part in papal elections, as were more than 40 of his 154 peers at the time. But besides that function, the cardinals also compose the Pope's privy council, and Cardinal Koliqi's experience and counsel presumably were elicited as much as his health allowed.
        Born in Shkoder, the center of Roman Catholicism in Albania, Mikel Koliqi was educated by Jesuits and studied theology in Italy at Venegono and Milan until his ordination in 1931.
        Estimates put the religious heritage of Albania's more than three million people at 70 percent Muslim; 20 percent Eastern Orthodox, concentrated in the south, and 10 percent Roman Catholic.
        To maintain his faith's momentum, Father Koliqi gave special attention to the young people of his region north of the capital, Tirana, and gained a reputation as a poet, writer and director of the diocesan press. He served as parish priest and curate of Shkoder Cathedral before being named Vicar General of the Archdiocese of Shkoder, a title he held for 55 years, from 1936 to 1991.
        When he became a cardinal three years later, he was only one of three among the 30 new princes of the church who were not archbishops. At 92, he also was the oldest and most frail; ushers helped him up the stairs to the Pope.
        Father Koliqi was imprisoned three times and sentenced to a total of 44 years, starting in 1945 when the Communist Government tightened its grip on society. His ostensible offenses included listening to foreign broadcasts and organizing young people. He spent years in solitary confinement and many more years as a farm laborer and camp inmate.
        Witch hunts were the common bane of clerics in Soviet satellite countries. But Albania was formally declared an atheist state in 1967 by Enver Hoxha, the longtime dictator, and all religious observances were banned.
        Priests and nuns were arrested, and many of them perished. Churches and mosques were sequestered for state use as warehouses or movie houses. Shkoder Cathedral became a sports complex.
        In 1984 Father Koliqi was released because of his health. Then the world's last remaining Stalinist Government crumbled, the ban on religion was lifted in 1990, and he openly resumed his priestly office at the reborn archdiocese.
      