
        Nuccio Bertone, the automobile designer whose career producing some of the world's most exotic low-volume sports cars spanned more than 60 years and who brought forth models for such high-powered manufacturers as Ferrari and Lamborghini, and also for Volvo and General Motors, died on Wednesday in Turin, where he lived. He was 82.
        So well known was Mr. Bertone among auto aficionados that when Volvo introduced a special series of limited-production two-door sports cars in the United States in 1991, they were not only designed and their bodies built by Mr. Bertone, but they also bore his signature on a plaque on the dashboard.
        Giuseppe Bertone, known by the nickname Nuccio, was born in Turin, where his father in 1912 founded a workshop producing body parts by hand. Under the younger Mr. Bertone's aegis, the company was gradually transformed into an industrial enterprise, specializing not only in the design but also the manufacture of cars in small series, and of parts for cars.
        As a boy, he often told friends and colleagues, he grew strong on a diet of ''bread and cars.''
        In the 1950's, when Europe's automobile industry was re-emerging from the destruction of World War II, Mr. Bertone achieved his first great success, designing in 1954 the classic Alfa Romeo Giulietta Sprint, an early version of the Alfa Romeo Spider, which later gained fame as the car Dustin Hoffman drove in the 1967 film ''The Graduate.'' Though only 500 of the Sprints were originally planned, Alfa ultimately built 40,000.
        Mr. Bertone produced numerous models for the Italian car makers Fiat and Alfa Romeo but some of his most exciting work was done for Lamborghini, whose low-slung models, the cheapest of them costing well into six figures, were noted for their beautiful design, strong performance -- and road rusting.
        At the 1966 Geneva Auto Show, Mr. Bertone stunned the auto world with the introduction of the Lamborghini Miura, a powerful sports model with a centrally placed engine whose shark-like nose set a standard for many later designs. Other exotic Lamborghini models, notably the Espada and the Countach, followed. In 1973 he produced the Fiat X 1/9, a two-door model that like his other products excelled for its sleek line and aggressive animal-like looks. Another model by Mr. Bertone favored among sports car collectors, the Ferrari Dino 308 GT4, rivaled his earlier work.
        ''In the beginning there is man, alone with his thought, his soul, and his professional spirit, capable of intuitions that are at once great and fragile, simple and complex,'' Mr. Bertone once said of his work, typically emphasizing the intuitive element of his creativity. ''Later on comes the design, the trials, production and computers.''
        Until the oil crises of the 1970's injected a note of sobriety into the automobile industry, Mr. Bertone shone at the center of a brilliant group of automotive and industrial designers in Turin that included Pinin Farina, Giorgio Giugiaro and Marcello Gandini.
        ''As a stylist, Bertone knew marvelously well how to unite his inborn good taste, his great sense of class and his passion for sports cars,'' said Mr. Giugiaro, who joined Mr. Bertone's company in 1959 at age 21, and now heads one of Italy's leading design studios.
        Among Mr. Bertone's most recent designs were the convertible versions of both the Fiat Punto and the Opel Astra, which is built by the German unit of General Motors.
        Mr. Bertone was not only an esthete and designer, but an avid skier and sailor as well.
        The industrial group Mr. Bertone formed employs today about 1,500 people and had revenue last year of $320 million. In 1995, an electric car designed by the Bertone group, called Zer, with an aerodynamic, rocket-shaped body, set a record for electrically propelled vehicles when it achieved a top speed of 188.5 miles an hour.
        Mr. Bertone, who attended only grade school, held an honorary degree in engineering from the Turin Polytechnic.
        He is survived by his wife, Lilly, and two daughters, Marie Jeanne and Barbara, all of Turin.
        Correction:  March 1, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Nuccio Bertone, a designer of Italian sports cars, misstated the origin of the Alfa Romeo Spider. It was designed by Pinin Farina; it did not originate with the Alfa Romeo Giulietta Sprint, which was designed by Mr. Bertone.
        A picture caption showing a 1959 Giulietta referred incorrectly in some editions to the Alfa Romeo model seen in the 1967 film ''The Graduate.'' It was the Duetto convertible, also designed by Mr. Farina; it was not the Giulietta.
      