
        Lawrence A. Fleischman, chairman and chief executive officer of Kennedy Galleries in Manhattan, an authority on American art from the 18th through 20th centuries and a major collector of antiquities, died  on Friday at his home in London. He was 71 and also lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said Lillian Brenwasser, vice president of Kennedy Galleries.
        Besides being an expert on American art, Mr. Fleischman was known for his philanthropic activities. In June, he and his wife, Barbara, gave a large portion of their antiquities collection to the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif. In an arrangement whereby they donated most of the collection and the Getty purchased the rest, the museum was able to add about 300 objects, worth an estimated $80 million, to its collection.
        The works, from ancient Greece, Rome and Etruria, dated from 2800 B.C. to A.D. 400. They had been collected by the Fleischmans over the last 40 years.
        The Fleischmans have also been major supporters of the British Museum as well as the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Detroit Institute of Art, the Cleveland Museum and the Vatican Museum.
        In 1982 the couple endowed a chair in the Metropolitan Museum's department of American art and supported the installation of three galleries in its American Wing that feature examples of American art from the museum's permanent collections. The Lawrence A. and Barbara Fleischman Gallery is an oval room that houses John Vanderlyn's ''Panoramic View of the Palace of Versailles (1818-1819). A room endowed by Kennedy Galleries is filled with folk and painted furniture as well as decorative arts. The third gallery, the Martha and Rebecca Fleischman Gallery, named after the couple's daughters, shows American examples of 19th-century revival styles.
        In 1983 the Fleischmans also gave money to establish a gallery of late medieval secular art at the museum that also is named after them. A decade later they helped underwrite a permanent position for a senior scholar in the Met's department of Greek and Roman art.
        Mr. Fleischman worked to foster wider appreciation of American art.  He served on a White House advisory committee during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and was co-founder with the art historian E. P. Richardson of the Archives of American Art, which was created as a primary art research resource for writers and scholars and is now a part of the Smithsonian Institution.
        Mr. Fleischman also founded the American Art Journal in 1969 and was a board member of the Art Dealers Association of America and a fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library. In 1991 he became chairman of Caryatides, a group that supports the British Museum's department of Greek and Roman antiquities. He also began and was chairman of the American Friends of the British Museum.
        In 1978 Pope Paul VI named Mr. Fleischman a Papal Knight of the Order of St. Sylvester and in 1986 he was named a Knight-Commander of St. Sylvester, one of the highest distinctions a lay person can receive from the church.
        Born in 1925 in Detroit, Mr. Fleischman studied at the Western Military Academy in Alton, Ill., at Purdue University and at the University of Detroit, from which he graduated in 1948. That year he married Barbara Greenberg.
        His interest in antiquities had begun during World War II when, as a soldier stationed in Paris, he visited ancient Roman sites.
        In 1966 he and his family moved from Detroit to New York, where he became a partner in Kennedy Galleries.
        Mr. Fleischman had recently committed himself to refurbishing a room at the British Museum and had just promised the New York Public Library a gift described by the Kennedy Galleries to be ''in the seven figures.''
        In addition to his wife and his daughters, Rebecca, of Portand, Ore., and Martha, president of Kennedy Galleries, he is survived by a son, Arthur, of Boston.
        Mr. Fleischman always insisted that he and his wife were only ''temporary custodians'' of their collections.
        ''No one owns a work of art,'' he said. ''You're the custodian of it for the future. You take care of it, you have the pleasure of living with it, and then you pass it on. It is our hope that we leave it to the public.''
      