
        John A. Griffin, an educator and a major figure in the civil rights movement in the South, died of pneumonia on Saturday at Piedmont Hospital here. He was 84 and lived in Atlanta.
        Dr. Griffin, long known as a gentle, conciliating figure in race relations, was a founder of the Southern Regional Council, formed in 1944 to bring white and black Southerners together.
        He was also president of the Southern Education Foundation and a longtime teacher and administrator at Emory University here.
        ''He was constantly looking for ways to connect people he met so they could find strength in numbers,'' said John Egerton, the author of ''Speak Now Against the Day,'' (Knopf, 1994), a history of race relations in the South from the New Deal to the Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education decision in 1954.
        Dr. Griffin, who was white, was born in Monroe, Ga., on July 3, 1912. He received undergraduate and master's degrees from Emory and a doctorate in sociology and agricultural economics from the University of Wisconsin.
        During his tenure at Emory, from 1944 to 1959, Dr. Griffin served variously as assistant to the president, director of the community education service and associate professor of sociology. He also taught at Georgia Tech and Florida State University.
        Perhaps the most lasting product of his commitment to racial equality was the Southern Regional Council, which he founded with others, like Ralph McGill, former editor of The Atlanta Constitution.
        He was active in civil rights issues, particularly those affecting education, throughout the 1950's and 1960's. During part of that time he was associate director for conciliation with the United States Community Relations Service, working to resolve volatile racial crises in places like Selma, Ala.; McComb, Miss., and Houma, La.
        From 1965 to 1978, he was executive director of the Southern Education Foundation, which provides support for historically black colleges and other programs intended to assure educational opportunity for black youths.
        Aside from the Southern Regional Council, he is perhaps best known for research that he helped bring together but, characteristically, never took credit for. While teaching at Emory,  he helped organize a Ford Foundation study of the South's segregated schools.
        The project led to the book ''The Negro and the Schools'' by the journalist Harry Ashmore, which is credited with having influenced the Supreme Court when it formulated policies for the desegregation of public schools after the 1954 Brown decision declaring segregation illegal.
        Dr. Griffin's first wife, Wallace Lillard Lyons, died in 1960. He is survived by his wife, the former Anne Ryland Ricks of Atlanta, and four children by his first wife, Sarah Lockhart Griffin of Decatur, Ga., Mary Griffin Turnbull of Sausalito, Calif., John Jr., of Decatur, and William H., of Clearwater, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      