
        Alan C. Nelson, who presided over sweeping changes in national immigration policy in the 1980's as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, then helped write California's tough new immigration law, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Sacramento. He was 63.
        His family said the cause was a heart attack.
        When Mr. Nelson went to Washington in September 1981, initially as a deputy commissioner of the immigration, he knew little about Haitian boat people, Cuban refugees or any of the other thorny problems facing the agency. Indeed, he was a corporate lawyer who had spent the previous six years representing the Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company in San Francisco.
        But to President Ronald Reagan and his inner circle, Mr. Nelson, a native of Oakland who had majored in business administration at the University of California at Berkeley and later obtained his law degree there, had special credentials.
        For one thing he had served in the California cabinet, as director of the Department of Rehabilitation, when Mr. Regan was Governor. For another, he was a member of the so-called Alameda County Mafia, a group of Washington officials who had served in law enforcement in Alameda County, mainly as prosecutors in the district attorney's office.
        It did not hurt Mr. Nelson's standing that his stint as a prosecutor had overlapped with that of Edwin Meese 3d, the long-time Reagan insider who was the White House counselor in charge of recruitment and who later became Mr. Nelson's boss as Attorney General.
        In the Immigration Service, Mr. Nelson proved a quick study.
        Within two months of his arrival, after President Reagan's first choice for commissioner, a Florida Cadillac dealer, backed out, Mr. Nelson was promoted to the top spot.
        During the next eight years, he wrestled with the numerous problems of illegal immigration and lobbied hard for what became the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. That law granted legal status to about three million long-term undocumented aliens, while imposing tough measures to curb the flow of illegal aliens into the country, including a requirement that employers check the citizenship status of their workers.
        Among other things, Mr. Nelson set up more than 100 new field offices to process requests for amnesty, beefed up the Border Patrol, worked to restore Ellis Island as a cultural center and carried out a program to prevent undocumented aliens from receiving Federal benefits to which they were not entitled.
        Although Mr. Nelson had hoped to hold on to his position through the next administration, shortly after George Bush became President in 1989 a Justice Department audit found so many deficiencies in the agency's management that Mr. Nelson was forced to resign.
        He resumed private law practice in California, but within a few years he was deeply involved in the immigration issue once again. At a time when many Californians were becoming increasingly concerned about the proliferation of illegal aliens from from Asia and Latin America, Mr. Nelson and Harold W. Ezell, a former western director of the immigration service, came up with a proposed solution: a law that among other things would bar undocumented aliens from receiving an array of public benefits, from education to health care.
        The proposal, which became a citizen's ballot issue known as Proposition 187, touched off a wave of outraged opposition, but passed handily in November 1994. Since then, however, many of the law's provisions have been tied up in the courts.
        Mr. Nelson is survived by his wife, JoAnn; three daughters, Kristy Leffers of Oakland, Kathy Taylor of Rocklin, Calif., and Karin of San Francisco, and one granddaughter.
      