
        Dr. Henry H. Barschall, a nuclear physicist who carried out early experiments with neutrons, helped develop the atomic bomb in World War II and then saw his laboratory destroyed by a bomb in Vietnam War protests, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 81.
        The cause was liver cancer, family members said.
        Dr. Barschall contributed to the understanding of neutron physics and its applications to medical radiotherapy and fusion technology. He began using particle accelerators at the University of Wisconsin in the 1940's to test the scattering of fast neutrons, which are produced in nuclear reactions, lack electrical charges and move at about one-tenth the speed of light. The patterns he found were used to form an early theory about neutron and nuclei interactions.
        ''His work marked the first time that the neutron data could be understood in a simple way,'' said Dr. Hugh T. Richards, a retired physics professor at the University of Wisconsin.
        In World War II, Dr. Barschall joined the team at Los Alamos, N.M., that developed the atomic bomb. On July 16, 1945, he helped monitor the shock wave from the first nuclear test, near White Sands.
        More than 20 years after he came to Wisconsin, campus protests against the Vietnam War became violent. On Aug. 24, 1970, a bomb exploded before dawn at the university building that housed Dr. Barschall's laboratory and the United States Army Math Research Center. One student was killed, several were injured, and the work of several professors was destroyed.
        ''He was very shaken up, very perturbed'' said Dr. Richards. ''He never got back into nuclear physics.''
        Dr. Barschall worked instead in medical physics and nuclear engineering for the rest of his career, turning to the use of fast neutrons in the treatment of malignancies.
        Born Heinrich Barschall in Berlin, he studied at the University of Berlin and Marburg University. He accepted a fellowship at Princeton University and received a doctorate in 1940.
        He taught at Kansas University and at Wisconsin, where he was the Bascom Professor of Physics and Nuclear Energy and the chairman of the physics department. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1972 and was awarded the first T. W. Bonner Prize by the American Physical Society.
        He is survived by his wife, Eleanor; a son, Peter H., of Gloucester, Mass., and a daughter, Anne E. Barschall of Tarrytown, N.Y.
      