
        Milton Berger, a Coney Island press agent who trumpeted the delights of Brooklyn's legendary amusement district so long and with such flamboyant verve that he became a local landmark, died on Monday at his apartment on Ocean Parkway. He was 81 and died knowing that come summer, Coney Island's vast pristine beaches and crystal-clear surf would once again be a magnet for millions and that peals of joyful laughter would be heard deep into the Coney Island night.
        A cousin, Richard Weinberg, said Mr. Berger had been suffering from a variety of ailments.
        Whether he was working for the old Steeplechase Park, the Coney Island Chamber of Commerce or for Astroland, the last of the area's big-time amusement parks, Mr. Berger's client was always a dream, the dream of what Coney Island had once been and would surely be again.
        By the time he became press agent for Steeplechase Park, in 1952, Coney Island's glory days were behind it, and even Steeplechase's days were numbered. Mr. Berger just did not see it that way. ''The great days of Coney Island are in the future,'' he would say. ''The island is constantly renewing itself.''
        A restless promoter, Mr. Berger did his share to keep the dream alive. In his early days, he brought the Arthur Godfrey and Kate Smith television programs to Coney Island, and later on, he staged air shows and fireworks displays, offered free admission to indentical twins, held parties for handicapped youngsters and promoted marathon roller-coaster rides.
        In what he regarded as one of his greatest publicity triumphs, in the 1950's, he staged an exhibition of paintings depicting Coney Island scenes and was rewarded with a two-page layout in The Daily Mirror, ''Art Comes to Coney Island.''
        When it came to providing official crowd estimates, Mr. Berger was a master of a Coney Island tradition dating to the time that Frank Tilyou, the Steeplechase founder, became so impressed with the giant Ferris wheel he had seen at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893 that he came home, built a half-size version and blithely billed it as the world's largest.
        Accordingly, Mr. Berger apparently never saw a sunny Coney Island Sunday that drew less than a million visitors, and for the Fourth of July in 1988, he was in such a patriotic expansive mood that he reported a crowd of 2.5 million.
        (He could also be shrewd. For the first day of a three-day air show, he reported a crowd of only 750,000, but only to leave room for much bigger crowds that he would report for the next two days.)
        Although he took a proprietary interest in the Cyclone, the venerable roller coaster now operated by Astroland, and would give detailed accounts of how much money his employers would be spending to spruce it up for another season, Mr. Berger, who helped secure landmark designation for the ride, was not shy about extolling the obvious.
        ''The Atlantic Ocean is still the greatest air-condtioning around,'' he would say.
        And as for the beach, don't even mention the Riviera. ''Have you ever been there?'' he would ask. ''It has rocks.''
        Although Mr. Berger, who was born in Brooklyn, spent a fair share of time at Coney Island as a youngster, Coney Island was not the dominant formative influence on his professional life.
        Mr. Berger was, in fact, a product of the Damon Runyon era of Broadway, a culture he got to know first by hanging around a speakeasy his father operated and later at a series of restaurants he managed in the Times Square area.
        After a brief stint at New York University, Mr. Berger became a show-business press agent, one whose most significant achievement, he claimed, was persuading Frank Capra to cast one of his clients, Harry Carey, a fading cowboy star, as the Vice President of the United States in the classic movie ''Mr. Smith Goes to Washington.''
        Once he got to Coney Island, Mr. Berger became a ubiquitous and distinctive presence. Over there would be the ocean, the beach and the boardwalk; behind it the Cyclone and the Wonderwheel. And standing in between taking it all in with sweeping gestures would be Mr. Berger in red blazer and white flannels, perhaps, or in some combination involving plaid.
        His carny-barker outfits, to be sure, like his carny-barker manner, were merely part of his professional persona.
        Off duty, Mr. Berger not only had a full wardrobe of conservative suits, he also was a highly cultured man who loved opera, art, classical Greek and Roman literature and antiques.
        On duty or off, he was also a raconteur who could speak for hours on a variety of subjects, but had a special love of politics, a result, no doubt, of having had his picture taken with scores of politicians eating hot dogs at Coney Island.
        Mr. Berger, whose wife died several years ago, has no immediate survivors.
      