
        Robert D. Kilpatrick, a former chairman and chief executive of the Cigna Corporation, one of the nation's largest insurance companies, died yesterday at Columbia-Henrico Doctor's Hospital in Richmond. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Kilpatrick, who lived on a farm in Crozier, Va., outside Richmond, died of a cancer of the bone marrow, his wife, Faye, said.
        Mr. Kilpatrick, a decorated naval officer and star college athlete, played a leading role in the formation of Cigna in 1982 through the merger of Connecticut General, which he was running as president and chief executive officer, and the INA Corporation.
        Mr. Kilpatrick's Connecticut General had a sizable life and corporate health insurance business, but he wanted to expand its small property and casualty division. INA was an insurance company that as one Cigna official said yesterday ''was almost all property and casualty.''
        By the time Mr. Kilpatrick retired  nine years ago, Cigna was a major figure in commercial property and casualty insurance. Mr. Kilpatrick had also laid the groundwork for the company's rise to prominence in the business of health maintenance organizations.
        Mr. Kilpatrick, who had a string of exploits as an underwater demolition team officer in World War II and the Korean War, had dreamed of continuing his Navy career. But as part of a general reduction in force after Korea, he was returned to civilian life. He turned to insurance by a simple expedient: He needed a job.
        As Mrs. Kilpatrick recalled, Mr. Kilpatrick saw two advertisements in The Navy Times weekly newspaper, one for a job with Connecticut General, the other with Procter & Gamble. He hit it off with the Connecticut General representative and the couple moved to the company's headquarters in Bloomfield, Conn.
        Mr. Kilpatrick started with Connecticut General as an underwriting trainee in 1954. Twenty-two years later he was named president and chief executive.
        Mr. Kilpatrick, who was born in  Louisiana, dazzled his coaches at Ouachita Parish High School, winning letters in three sports. But he turned down athletic scholarships to college to enlist in the Navy.
        After helping to ferry troops ashore in North Africa and Sicily he was sent to officers' candidate school and underwater demolition training. On one mission, he swam ashore at Iwo Jima to clear the waters close to shore of mines and other defenses before one of the most renowned invasion landings of World War II. Half the men in his unit were killed and no one survived without a wound.
        Among Mr. Kilpatrick's decorations were the Silver Star and the Purple Heart.
        Mr. Kilpatrick was a modest man and seldom talked about his military experiences. But he could not resist recounting how as a pitcher and the captain of the University of Richmond baseball team in 1948 he had struck out the captain of the Yale University team, George Bush.
        Mr. Kilpatrick was offered a chance to join a New York Yankees farm team. But, his wife said, she told him she did not want to marry a baseball player and he decided, instead, to coach and teach at the Woodberry Forest School in Orange, Va. But war soon broke out in Korea and the Navy came calling.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kilpatrick is survived by two sons, Robert D. Kilpatrick Jr. of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Thomas D. Kilpatrick of Crozier, Va.; three daughters, Kathleen S. Kilpatrick of Crozier, Lauren D. Kilpatrick of Cromwell, Conn., and Tracy C. Marks of Crozier.
      