
        Jimmy Weston, a glad-handing former athlete and one-time policeman who loved people, music and dancing so much that he opened a supper club that became Manhattan party central for more than two decades, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 74 and had operated Jimmy Weston's on East 54th Street until 1989.
        A daughter, Jeanne Cluess, said the cause was pneumonia.
        From the time it opened at 131 East 54th Street in 1967, Jimmy Weston's was the place to be for anyone who liked big drinks, bear hugs, boisterous conviviality and jazz, or simply gawking at those who did. An eclectic assortment of Mr. Weston's celebrity pals on any given night might include Frank Sinatra, George Steinbrenner, Pete Rozelle, Richard Nixon, Howard Cosell, Hugh Carey, Muhammad Ali, Leo Durocher, Tony Bennett and any big-time basketball coaches who happened to be in town.
        Presiding over all would be Mr. Weston, a distinctly dapper man in tailored suit and shiny cuff links who was known to break into a soft-shoe shuffle when the music got to him.
        If the scene resembled a latter-day Toots Shor's, it was hardly an accident. During the dozen years he spent on the New York City police force, mostly as an undercover narcotics detective, Mr. Weston, a native of Brooklyn who served in the Coast Guard and then played basketball for St. John's, used to haunt Shor's and other hot spots, particularly those that offered jazz.
        A favorite stop was the Embers, the legendary jazz joint on East 52d Street, where Mr. Weston, already blurring the distinction between big-spending customer and convivial host, would have such a good time, the trumpet master Jonah Jones once recalled, that after the last set he would sometimes keep the party going by rounding up the band and taking them, their wives and some friends to his favorite Italian restaurant.
        It was during those days that he got to know Mr. Sinatra, who enjoyed the detective's company so much that Mr. Weston became part of the Sinatra entourage during the singer's late-night perambulations.
        Mr. Weston also moonlighted as a waiter and bartender, building up such an devoted following at a place called Squaries that by 1963, he had both the inclination and the backing to leave the police force and open the first Jimmy Weston's on East 56th Street.
        The restaurant thrived, but for Mr. Weston, something was missing. He found it a few years later when he moved to more spacious quarters on East 54th Street, where there was room for a bandstand and a dance floor. Old friends like Jonah Jones became headline attractions and Tommy Furtado was the house piano singer.
        Weston's was really three places in one, a sedate setting for bankers' lunches by day and a haven for music-loving couples by night. In between came the power cocktail hour.
        Given the restaurant's high-level clientele, it was inevitable that it served as a backdrop for social history. It was at Weston's that Mr. Sinatra patched up his feud with Liz Smith, and Howard Cosell got the call from Roone Arledge telling him he had been picked for a daring new idea called ''Monday Night Football.''
        In such a charged atmosphere, even Boots, the men's-room attendant, became a figure of folklore. It happened one night when Sinatra, always a big tipper, was in an especially grandiose frame of mind, dispensing $100 bills to every waiter, bartender and busboy in sight. Boots, knowing his time would come, kept popping out to make sure Sinatra was still on the premises.
        Sure enough, the time came when Sinatra, accompained by Leo Durocher, paid a visit to Boots's domain. As he handed the visitors their towels and brushed off their jackets, Boots watched with satisfaction as Sinatra pulled out his wad of hundreds and began to peel one off.
        Before Boots could get his reward, however, Mr. Durocher intervened. With a grand gesture he stayed the Sinatra hand, saying: ''No, no, you've been getting everything all night, Frank. I'll take care of this.'' Whereupon he gave Boots $2, and a story neither he nor Mr. Weston ever tired of telling.
        After changing times forced him to close Weston's in 1989, Mr. Weston operated a restaurant for a while in Spring Lake, N.J., then returned to New York as part owner and night greeter at Runyon's on Second Avenue.
        It was a tribute to the magic pull of his personality and his endless fund of stories that many of his old customers flocked to his new stand until he became ill two weeks ago.
        In addition to Mrs. Cluess, Mr. Weston, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by two other daughters, Jennifer and Jamie of Manhattan, and a brother, Eugene, of Hicksville, L.I.
      