
        George W. DeFranceaux 2d, a retired mortgage banker and developer who helped establish a corporation that encouraged private investment in housing for people with low and moderate incomes, died on Jan. 27 at the Lafayette General Medical Center in Lafayette, La.
        He was 83 and had lived in Lafayette the last four years, though he was raised and made his career in Washington and Maryland.
        From 1969 to 1983, Mr. DeFranceaux played a leading role at the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships. The private, for-profit company, which was created by Congress in 1968 and was renamed NHP Inc. in 1986, has 135,000 properties today and is one of the nation's largest owners and operators of real estate.
        Mr. DeFranceaux's determination and particularly his work in raising investment money for the partnership helped get the enterprise started despite some initial pessimism about its prospects. He served successively as executive vice president, president and chief operating officer, and chief executive and chairman.
        After graduating from Eastern High School in Washington, Mr. DeFranceaux began his career in 1935, as a salesman at the Moss Realty Company, which was owned by his brother-in-law.
        He went on to work for 30 years as an officer and director of Frederick W. Berens Inc., a mortgage banking company, and then formed and became president of the Associated Mortgage Companies of Washington, which had bought Berens.
        Associated, which later became a subsidiary of the First Pennsylvania Corporation, was the country's third-largest mortgage company. During Mr. DeFranceaux's presidency, Associated issued the first Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed security.
        The National Housing Conference named Mr. DeFranceaux its Housing Person of the Year in 1980. He was also president of the Washington Board of Realtors and the Mortgage Bankers Association of Metropolitan Washington, a member of the Fannie Mae Advisory Committee and a director of the National Association of Realtors and the Metropolitan Washington Board of Trade.
        After retiring from the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships, Mr. DeFranceaux owned and managed Waterfront Homes, a business on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, and was chief executive of First Mortgage Services of Easton, Md.
        In 1992, Mr. DeFranceaux moved to Lafayette, where he worked as a broker with the Sam Robertson Real Estate Company until last year.
        Mr. DeFranceaux was an executive board member of the Boy Scouts of America, a founding board member of the Catholic Youth Organization of Washington and a national director of Goodwill Industries, as well as a knight in the Sovereign Order of Malta, a Roman Catholic order founded in 1099 during the Crusades.
        He is survived by his wife, Ada Moss DeFranceaux of Lafayette;, two sons, George Jefferson DeFranceaux of Punta Gordatt, Fla., and Donald Moss DeFranceaux of Washington; two daughters, Diane Anna Grod of Winchester, Calif., and Kaye Ann Leonard of Woodbine, Md.; a sister, Maybelle Utt of Springfield, W. Va.; 10 grandchildren and 4  great-grandchildren.
      