
        G. Stockton Strawbridge, who helped transform Strawbridge & Clothier from a small family dry goods store into a department store empire that girdled the Philadelphia area, died at his home in Newtown Square, Pa. on Saturday. He was 83.
        In a career that spanned more than half a century, Mr. Strawbridge put a modern face on stores he labeled dull as a young man, expanded into the suburbs before the rival John Wanamaker stores and helped to develop the Cherry Hill Mall in New Jersey, the first enclosed mall east of Chicago. He also jumped into discount retailing, starting Clover Stores in 1969.
        And he is credited with leading a $14 million restoration of East Market Street in Philadelphia. The goal, Mr. Strawbridge once told a reporter, was to turn the nation's oldest commercial street into the ''Champs-Elysees of Philadelphia.''
        But despite all his success, Mr. Strawbridge suffered crushing disappointment months before his death.
        After years of working to keep the business in the family, an objective he once told an interviewer was ''ever present, comparable to inhaling and exhaling,'' Strawbridge & Clothier was sold last July for $600 million to the May Department Store Company of St. Louis.
        Even though Strawbridge & Clothier was in failing financial health, Mr. Strawbridge, who had retired from active management in 1989, three years after successfully fending off a hostile takeover attempt, was violently opposed to the sale. When it was completed, he said it was a deal he could ''never forgive.''
        The decision to sell led to a falling out with his son, Peter S. Strawbridge, who was the last chairman of Strawbridge & Clothier and who backed the deal. The two reconciled  recently, family friends said.
        Telephone calls to the Strawbridge family were not returned.
        Peter Hearn, Mr. Strawbridge's lawyer, told Philadelphia newspapers on Sunday that it was ''significant'' that Mr. Strawbridge died so soon after the sale.
        ''He was the store, and the store was him,'' Mr. Hearn said in an interview with The Philadelphia Daily News.
        Rhonda West, a spokeswoman for the May Company, said ''both Philadelphia and the retailing industry have lost a great leader.''
        Even though he spent most of his adult life at the store his grandfather, Julius C. Strawbridge, opened with Isaac H. Clothier in 1868, flying, not retailing, was Mr. Strawbridge's great love.
        As a teen-ager, Mr. Strawbridge tried to persuade his parents to allow him to forgo completing his studies at the William Penn Charter School in order to get his pilot's license. But he did convince his father to pay for advanced aviation training instead of college.
        ''I never had the remotest idea of going into retailing,'' Mr. Strawbridge told a reporter more than 39 years ago. ''But in the 1930's, aviation suffered an economic setback. I got married and, out of necessity, went into retailing.''
        Despite a Quaker upbringing, Mr. Strawbridge enlisted in the Navy days after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. During the course of World War II he flew 4,000 hours as a transport pilot.
        Mr. Strawbridge, who was known as Stock, rather than George, his given name, started work at the company's flagship store at Eighth and Market Streets in 1934, as a clerk tracing consumer complaints.
        After serving in a number of other posts throughout the organization, and taking time off to fight in the war, Mr. Strawbridge was named president of Strawbridge & Clothier in 1955. He served in that post for 12 years, another dozen as chairman of the board and 12 more years as head of the company's executive committee. Even after his mandatory retirement at age 75, he often sat in on board meetings as a nonvoting member.
        An active and adventurous man, Mr. Strawbridge toured Antarctica by boat and once climbed the scaffolding that for years surrounded the statue of William Penn, high atop Philadelphia's City Hall. At the age of 77, he bungee-jumped from a hot-air balloon.
        Besides his wife, the former Mary Lowry, and his son Peter, Mr. Strawbridge is survived by three other sons, Steven, Michael and Arthur; two daughters, Susan S. Williams and Polly S. Carpenter; 14 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren. All live in the Philadelphia area.
        Correction:  March 1, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary on Feb. 11 about G. Stockton Strawbridge, who helped build the Strawbridge & Clothier department store chain, misstated the given name of his grandfather, who founded the store with Isaac H. Clothier. It was Justus C. Strawbridge, not Julius.
      