
        Dr. George Brampton Koelle, a pharmacological sleuth who spent more than 50 years unraveling secrets of the synapses, died on Feb. 1  at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Swarthmore, Pa.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, family members said.
        A fan of Sherlock Holmes, Dr. Koelle set out in his early research to track an elusive enzyme, called cholinesterase, but found tools lacking. He developed electron microscope methods that became a permanent part of the repertory in his field.
        While still in his 20's, he developed a reputation as a wunderkind. Most significant to that, said Dr. Elliot S. Vessell, chairman of the department of pharmacology at the Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine in Hershey, was his development of an indicator to locate cholinesterase, a neurotransmitter enzyme working in a network of synapses. He used a chemical, known as a stain, that binds to a substance and can be seen under magnification of nerve cells more than 200 times.
        The enzyme is crucial to explaining diseases in many organs. In the  autonomic nervous system, the parasympathetic, or cholinergic, part was where Dr. Koelle left his legacy.
        Without the Koelle stain, Dr. Vessell said, the nature of enzyme action there baffled researchers.
        ''It was just undecipherable,'' Dr. Vessell said. ''Explaining this part of the human system required his kind of work.''
        This breakthrough largely accounted for Dr. Koelle's winning the Abel Prize in Pharmacology in 1950, when he was only 32.
        He later applied his technique to the study of various diseases related to undersupply or oversupply of a neurotransmitter called acetylcholine. For example, gastric ulcers or a slow heart rate are related to increased activity regulated by the  parasympathetic system that Dr. Koelle studied.
        His promise was recognized early in his career when the University of Pennsylvania hired him at the rank of full professor at age 33. He was chairman of pharmacology at Penn from 1957 to 1981.
        George Brampton Koelle was born in Philadelphia in 1918. He received his bachelor of science degree in biology in 1939 from the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science, where he also was an instructor, and received his Ph.D. in pharmacology from Penn, in 1946, and his M.D. from Johns Hopkins University in 1950.
        In 1952 he joined the faculty at Penn, where he retired in 1989.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1972.
        At Penn, he held two endowed chairs, as the Elmer Holmes Bobst Professor and Distinguished Professor of the School of Medicine.
        He was a longtime member of the Sons of the Copper Beeches, a group of Sherlock Holmes fans, and of the Shakespeare Society of Philadelphia.
        In much of his research, his partner was his wife of 43 years, Dr. Winifred Augenent Koelle. In addition to her, he is survived by a brother, John B., of Swarthmore; three sons, Dr. Peter B., of Swarthmore, William A., of Huntsville, Ala., and Dr. Jonathan S., of San Diego, and two granddaughters.
      