
        Jerome Namias, an influential meteorological researcher who pioneered extended weather forecasts in the United States, died on Monday at the Scripps Torrey Pines Convalescent Hospital in San Diego. He was 86.
        The cause was pneumonia, said the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California at San Diego, where he was a researcher. He had lived at the hospital since suffering a stroke in 1989.
        In a career that spanned more than five decades, Mr. Namias took part in many important advances in understanding the climate, publishing his first paper in the early 1930's and his last in 1990.
        He studied the phenomena responsible for the creation of the Dust Bowl of the 1930's, helped develop the weather forecasting needed by passenger airlines as they rapidly expanded, served as the first chief of the Extended Forecast Division of the United States Weather Bureau and was a pioneer in looking at the way the upper layers of the ocean interact with the atmosphere to affect weather patterns.
        Later he contributed to research on El Nino, the warming of the ocean surface in the equatorial Pacific that has been found to have broad consequences for global climate.
        ''He was one of the founders of the methods of weather analysis and forecasting up until the advent of computers,'' said Dr. Edward N. Lorenz, professor emeritus of meteorology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Namias's principal contributions, Dr. Lorenz said, were in forecasting the weather for periods of weeks and seasons ahead, largely by recognizing different weather patterns.
        ''He had a very keen eye for seeing what was happening and detecting when something was going to change,'' Dr. Lorenz said.
        Mr. Namias was the director of the Extended Forecast Division at the Weather Bureau, now the National Weather Service, from 1941 to 1971.  Pushing forecasting to its technical limits, his division began issuing five-day forecasts in the 1940's.
        ''It was recognized as very difficult and risky forecasting,'' said Dr. Donald L. Gilman, who went to work for Mr. Namias at the Weather Bureau in 1958 and later was chief of prediction for the Climate Analysis Center of the National Weather Service.
        There were no computer models of the atmosphere then, and Mr. Namias and his colleagues based the forecasts on a strong empirical base and on a degree of intuition, Dr. Gilman said.
        ''His big contribution in his own research was to emphasize very strongly and take into account the way the upper layers and surface of the ocean interact with the atmosphere,'' Dr. Gilman said. ''He had a lot of influence on the way research went, and raised a lot of questions, whether or not his answers became the answers.''
        Mr. Namias joined Scripps as a researcher in 1968, continuing to spend half his time at the Weather Bureau, and in 1971 became director of Scripps's Climate Research Group. During the 1960's he developed forecasts extending 30 and 90 days in advance, and in the 1970's he began long-range seasonal forecasts that were widely publicized.
        Dr. Daniel Cayan, director of the Climate Research Division at Scripps, said: ''He would examine the peculiarities of atmospheric circulation, the troughs and ridges of pressure, and look at the ocean surface temperature pools and a number of other features. He would examine statistical likelihoods that a given condition would likely evolve. He would look for analogies in the observed record. Out would eventually come this forecast, which he liked to say was painted with a broad brush.''
        Mr. Namias was often asked by reporters to explain some weather anomaly or other, like the icy spring of 1967 or the bone-warping cold of the winter of 1982. He gained attention, at least on the East Coast, by pointing out in 1955 that changes in the upper air currents had shifted the ''hurricane belt'' northward, making the entire Eastern Seaboard vulnerable.
        Jerome Namias was born on March 19, 1910, in Bridgeport, Conn., and grew up in Fall River, Mass., where he developed an early interest in meteorology. After graduating from high school, he took correspondence courses while ill with tuberculosis, and attended M.I.T. and the University of Michigan before joining M.I.T. as a research associate in 1936. He earned a master's degree there.
        During World War II, he prepared extended forecasts for the military and received a citation from the Secretary of the Navy for forecasts for the Allied invasion of North Africa.
        He wrote more than 200 papers  and was the author of several books, including ''An Introduction to the Study of Air Mass and Isentropic Analysis'' (1936), ''Extended Forecasting by Mean Circulation Methods'' (1947) and ''Thirty-Day Forecasting'' (1953).
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He received many awards, including the Meisinger Award of the American Meteorological Society, the Rockefeller Public Service Award and the Gold Medal for distinguished achievement from the Department of Commerce.
        He is survived by his wife, Edith, of San Diego, and a daughter, Judith Immenschuh of Fairfax, Calif.
      