
        William P. Homans Jr., a Boston civil rights lawyer who championed the downtrodden, the oppressed and the out-and-out villainous with such verve that he became a legend in Massachusetts legal circles, died on Feb. 7 at a nursing home in Phoenix. He was 75 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        His family said the cause was a variety of ailments.
        In a career in which many of his clients had, in fact, done whatever heinous acts they were accused of, Mr. Homans lost his share of cases. But he won enough, too, and established so many precedents on appeal that he had more than a passing impact on state law.
        Virtually every criminal lawyer in Massachusetts, for example, knows that it was Mr. Homans's arguments that led the state's Supreme Judicial Court to abolish the death penalty in 1975, and that he also won a landmark victory on appeal after a client was convicted of manslaughter for performing a legal abortion.
        But Mr. Homans's impact extended so far down the scales of justice that one of his own former associates learned only recently that he had also been the lawyer who established that offhand promises made by a company in an employee handbook were contractual rights not to be trifled with when he had taken a trivial employee discrimination suit to the state's high court.
        Mr. Homans was a native of Canton, Mass., and his commitment to civil rights and to public service was both a family tradition and a personal passion.
        An aunt, Mary Peabody, the mother of former Gov. Endicott Peabody of Massachusetts, was a celebrated civil rights activist. Mr. Homans's mother, Edith Walcott Parkman Homans, was an early advocate of birth control. And as a youngster Mr. Homans, who later served a term in the Massachusetts Legislature, campaigned for his politician uncle, Henry Parkman Jr.
        During a summer trip to Germany in 1938, Mr. Homans became so distressed at anti-Semitism in Germany that by the time the United States entered World War II in December 1941 he had already joined the fight. As soon as he graduated from Harvard in June 1941, he joined the Royal Navy (but only because, at 6 feet 4 inches tall, he was too tall for the Royal Air Force). He later transferred to the American Navy.
        After the war he returned to Harvard for a law degree. After working in Washington for three years he entered private practice in Boston in 1951, and quickly made a name for himself.
        He cut an imposing figure and spoke in a rich, booming baritone, giving added dimension to Aaron Burr's famous dictum that ''the law is whatever is boldly asserted and plausibly maintained.''
        Whenever the law and the facts were against him, Mr. Homans was not one to pound on the table. Instead, he would resort to what he called his ''trial pen,'' a big, old-fashioned device that he would pull out at a critical moment in a trial.
        On the stand would be the state's star witness testifying that he had seen with his own eyes Mr. Homans's client pull out a gun and point it directly at the bank teller's head. But the jurors' eyes would be on Mr. Homans who, with trembling hand, filled the pen from a bottle of India ink perched so precariously on the edge of the defense table that the jury would be caught up in the suspense of when it would fall.
        In a profession known for its detachment, Mr. Homans, who never failed to respond to the measure of human dignity he inevitably perceived in even the most depraved client, became so wrapped up in his clients' lives that he sometimes was in tears after losing a case.
        People tended to respond to him in the same way, which might explain why last November members of the Supreme Judicial Court Historical Society established an endowment in his name to promote debate on public issues. They had never established such an endowment before, but then they had never encountered a lawyer like Mr. Homans before.
        Mr. Homans, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by two sons, William 3d, of Nashoba, Okla., and Peter, of Belmont, Mass.; two daughters, Penelope, of New Haven, and Elizabeth McKenna of Phoenix; two stepchildren, Anna Abigail Ionnitiu of Arlington, Va., and Nicholas Ionnitiu of West Tisbury, Mass.; a sister, Frances Berges of Berkeley, Calif.; two brothers, Wayne, of Darien, Conn., and James, of Canton, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      