
        Henry Margenau, a professor emeritus of physics and natural history at Yale University and an expert in spectroscopy, microwave theory, nuclear energy and the philosophy of science, died on Saturday in Hamden, Conn. He was 96 and lived in Hamden.
        During the 1950's, Dr. Margenau's theories of spectral analysis, the study of the properties of light as it passes through a prism, were used to analyze the fireballs created in tests of hydrogen bombs.
        During World War II, his work on microwave theory helped develop the technology to transmit and receive radar signals.
        He was on the Yale faculty for 41 years, retiring in 1969.
        Dr. Margenau was the author or co-author of nine books, including ''Ethics and Science,'' ''The Nature of Physical Reality,'' ''Quantum Mechanics'' and ''Integrated Principles of Modern Thought.'' He was also the editor of several professional journals and a consulting editor for the Time-Life science books.
        His true love, colleagues said, was the philosophy of science. During a conference on the subject at the Carnegie Center in New York in 1965, he said he saw a changing nature in the relationship between science and religion.
        He said the scientist had ''become increasingly humble with respect to absolute truth'' and that religion as well seemed to be emerging from a dogmatism that ''takes basic truths to be established once and for all.'' Therefore, he said, he saw an important ''a convergence of interests.''
        Born in Bielefeld, Germany, he came to the United States at 21 under the sponsorship of a German immigrant in Nebraska. Working there in a grocery store, he was encouraged by a customer, the president of Midland College, to enroll at the college. He proceeded to graduate in one year by virtue of a special examination in Latin; he had taught himself Latin and had read nearly all the early Roman historians.
        At the University of Nebraska, where he pursued a master's degree, he worked for a physicist whose specialty was the spectral analysis of light. As he was completing his master's work, the professor died and Mr. Margenau published his professor's work posthumously.
        This led him to an instructorship at Yale, where he went on to receive his doctorate in physics in 1929.
        He is survived by his wife, Liesel Noc; two sons, Rolf C., of Rumson, N.J., and Henry M., of Jim Thorpe, Pa.; a daughter, Annemarie Lindskog of Woodbridge, Conn., nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      