
        William McKinley Klein Jr., a botanist who revitalized the study of plants and botanical gardens in Florida, Hawaii and Pennsylvania, died of heart failure on Wednesday at Coral Gables Hospital in Florida. He was 63 and lived in Hawaii.
        Dr. Klein was in Florida to attend meetings and a celebration commemorating the 50th anniversary of Everglades National Park. On the evening before he died, he presided at a reception at which he spoke of the need to preserve land, the environment and plants.
        He was the president of the National Tropical Botanical Garden, which consists of four gardens in Hawaii and one in Coconut Grove, Fla. He previously spent three years as director of the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami.
        When a hurricane destroyed the Fairchild garden in 1992, he led the restoration efforts, attracting volunteers and scientists from around the world to right trees, clear grounds and collect data. The garden was re-opened two months after the storm.
        From 1977 to 1991, he was director of the Morris Arboretum of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and was responsible for raising more than $10 million for its renovation and expansion. He was succeeded in that office by Paul W. Meyer.
        ''He laid the foundations for the whole master planning effort, which transformed a rundown estate garden into what has become the world class public institution it is today,'' Dr. Meyer said yesterday. ''He also laid the foundation for the internship program and helped lay the foundation and encouraged me to develop the plant exploration program.''
        Under the exploration program, the Morris Arboretum staff visits China and other Asian countries to collect plants, continuing a tradition believed to have begun as searches for fruiting plants by order of the pharaohs. The explorations to gather plants for study and cultivation, once common, are conducted by only a handful of arboretums in this country today.
        Judy McKeon, the chief horticulturist at the arboretum, said Dr. Klein saw the garden ''as part of a bigger art form, as well as an ecosystem -- his view of the garden combined both a humanistic and a scientific approach.''
        In 1994, Dr. Klein moved to the island of Kauai in Hawaii where he began organizing the reopening of gardens that had been closed because of damage from a 1992 hurricane. Within two years, two of the gardens were re-opened, another opened earlier this year and a fourth opening was scheduled for this spring. He also expanded the staff to further research projects on the biology of tropical plants.
        He received a degree in range science forestry in 1955 and a master's degree in botany in 1957, both from Colorado State University.
        Dr. Klein is survived by his wife, Janet Klein; a son, Darin, of Atlanta; three daughters, Jennifer Morrison of Ashville, Mass., and Melissa and Erica Klein of Philadelphia; his mother, Winnifred Klein of Lakewood, Colo., and two sisters, Betty Payte of Golden, Colo., and Nancy Blair of Sacramento, Calif.
      