
        Harvey H. Lippincott, a founder and archivist of the New England Air Museum in Windsor Locks, Conn., and a leading expert on New England aviation history, died on Monday at his home in Hebron, Conn. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Priscilla G. Lippincott said.
        Mr. Lippincott, who was born in Moorestown, N.J., said that as a boy he would visit the air hangar in nearby Lakehurst and clean bird droppings from the wings of airplanes in exchange for free rides, according to a 1983 interview with United Press International.
        A Quaker, Mr. Lippincott did not fight during World War II but instead worked in Europe for Pratt & Whitney as a technical representative, installing and repairing plane engines for the military.
        He traveled extensively with the 57th Fighter Group of the Army Air Force, which went to North Africa, Germany and Italy. He met his wife, Caroline B. Young, in Pisa, Italy, where she was working for the Red Cross.
        After the war, Mr. Lippincott provided technical assistance to Iberian Airlines of Spain, and for its maiden flight, Franco, the Spanish dictator, demanded that Mr. Lippincott come along, his daughter said.
        He returned to the United States to finish his engineering degree at the Georgia Institute of Technology before working as an airplane engineer for Pratt & Whitney until the early 1970's, when he became the first corporate archivist for its parent company, United Technologies.
        After retiring in 1987, he volunteered as the archivist and exhibits director at the New England Air Museum.
        In 1959, Mr. Lippincott organized the Connecticut Aeronautical Historical Association, a group of airplane aficionados who founded the New England Air Museum, which opened at Bradley International Airport in 1964, said Michael P. Speciale, the museum's executive director.
        Mr. Lippincott helped the museum acquire a number of important aircraft artifacts, including the oldest American aircraft to survive, a balloon basket built in 1870 by Silas Brooks, Mr. Speciale said.
        The museum is now the largest aviation museum in the Northeast, Mr. Speciale said, containing about 140 entire aircraft and thousands of airplane engines and other artifacts.
        Donald S. Lopez, deputy director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum, called Mr. Lippincott a leading expert in New England aviation history.
        Shortly before the Air and Space Museum opened its new building in 1976, Mr. Lippincott, then archivist for United Technologies, made a short visit. ''He came down from U.T.C. and read every single label to make sure we got everything right,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''It took him five days.''
        Mr. Lippincott also played a significant role in getting aviation museums to work together, in part by founding the aviation division of the International Association of Transport Museums.
        Mr. Lippincott's wife died in 1992. He is survived by a son, Bruce A., of Eastford, Conn.; two daughters, Priscilla, of Sebastopol, Calif., and Bonnie A. Lippincott of Lakeville, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      