
        Robert Mallary, a junk artist who contributed to the blossoming of American sculpture in the late 1950's and early 60's, and was also a pioneer in the use of plastics and computers in art, died on Monday at Cooley-Dickinson Hospital in Northampton, Mass. He was 69 and lived in Conway, Mass.
        The cause was leukemia, said his son, Michael.
        Mr. Mallary, who did not have a New York gallery show from 1966 to 1993, largely dropped from view during the latter part of his career. But in the early 1960's, he was a prominent member of the Neo-Dada or  junk art movement, with his work featured in Life magazine, included in the Museum of Modern Art's 1961 ''Art of Assemblage'' exhibition and widely collected and written about.
        Along with talented young American artists like John Chamberlain, Richard Stankiewicz, Claes Oldenburg and Lee Bontecou, as well as European artists like Alberto Burri and Antonio Tapies, Mr. Mallary brought a fierce new physical reality to art through the use of found objects and unusual materials. In the early 60's, he favored trash -- discarded pieces of cardboard, wood, cloth rags and clothing -- and occasionally store-bought items like tuxedos. These he assembled, with the help of polyester resin, into rough, paintinglike reliefs and sculptures that veered between the angst of Abstract Expressionism and the insouciance of Pop Art.
        Mr. Mallary was born in Toledo, Ohio, and grew up in Berkeley, Calif. He began studying art at the age of 8 and became infatuated with the work  of the Mexican muralists as a teen-ager. In his early 20's, he went to Mexico City to study with Jose Clemente Orozco and David Alfaro Siqueiros, who was also an early advocate of the collaborations between art and technology. Inspired by Siqueiros, Mr. Mallary began experimenting with plastics in 1938.
        In the 1940's and 50's, he worked with lucite, acetate, fiber glass, liquid plastics like polyester and acrylic, and black light to make luminescent sculptures. He exhibited polyester paintings at the Urban Gallery in New York in 1954, while teaching art in Los Angeles.
        By the mid-1950's, while teaching at the University of New Mexico, he began making reliefs of sand and straw mixed with polyester. He moved to New York to teach at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn in 1959, and soon began incorporating more urban detritus into his art, showing his new works at the Allan Stone Gallery in 1961, '62 and '66. A retrospective of his work was held at the State University of New York, Potsdam, in 1968.
        In 1964, Mr. Mallary gave up the use of polyester resin, which is toxic, because of liver problems, becoming one of the first artists to write about its hazards. He turned briefly to bronze, but became interested in the computer's potential as an artistic tool. In 1968, he exhibited in London a work that is considered one of the first computer-designed sculptures.  Although he continued making assemblages, he then devoted the bulk of his energies to this new medium, writing and lecturing, and creating computer programs and computer-aided sculptures. An exhibition of new assemblages and computer graphics was held at the Mitchell Algus Gallery in SoHo in 1993. From 1967 until his retirement last year Mr. Mallary taught art at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
        In addition to his son Michael, of Berlin, Mass., he is survived by his wife, Margot, of New Rochelle, N.Y.;  a son, Martin, also of New Rochelle; two daughters, Michelle Jurika of Piedmont, Calif. and Martine Mallary of Manhattan; a brother, John,  of Antioch, Calif.; a sister, Jean Neill of Calistoga, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      