
        Herb Caen, whose 60-year journalism career was devoted to doting on San Francisco and whose affections were more than amply requited by legions of ardent readers, died this morning at the California Pacific Medical Center here. Mr. Caen, who was 80, told readers in May that he had inoperable lung cancer.
        To call Mr. Caen ''Mr. San Francisco,'' as was sometimes done, was redundant. No other newspaper columnist has ever been so long synonymous with a specific place. To his fans, Mr. Caen (pronounced cane) was sui generis, a towering icon in his adopted hometown -- although he was largely unknown in much of the nation, his column of stubborn localisms not even traveling well across the San Francisco Bay.
        But in the city, and no one ever doubted what city he was talking about, Mr. Caen enjoyed the status of a beloved Boswell by the Bay.
        Part of his appeal seemed to lie in the endless bonhomie he projected, always nattily turned out in suit and fedora, often with a martini glass in hand. Mr. Caen exuded a whiff of elegance from a bygone era.
        Indeed, his role model was Walter Winchell, the legendary gossip monger, but with the malice shorn off. And unlike Winchell, who outlived his celebrity and doddered on into obscurity, Mr. Caen's status as a living landmark grew with his longevity.
        In April 1996, Mr. Caen turned 80, won a special Pulitzer Prize for his ''continuing contribution as a voice and a conscience of his city'' and married his fourth wife. In May, after he told his readers about his lung cancer -- he smoked for 40 years but quit 25 years ago -- 5,000 letters poured in. The city proclaimed June 14 Herb Caen Day and 75,000 people turned out to shower the writer with affection.
        Mr. Caen was born in Sacramento on April 3, 1916, although he often said he had been conceived while his parents were visiting San Francisco. He wrote a high school gossip column called ''Raisen' Caen'' and after graduation he went to work as a sportswriter at The Sacramento Union. In 1936, he landed a job at The San Francisco Chronicle, arriving in town when Coit Tower was only three  years old and ferries were the only way to cross the bay.
        Mr. Caen began writing his current column on July 5, 1938, and wrote it six days a week until 1991, when he cut back to five and later to three. ''I can't find a way out: too many bills and ex-wives and a kid in  school, things that chew up the income,'' he told an interviewer just before he turned 80. ''I never intended this to be permanent, but it looks like it's going to be.''
        He is survived by his wife, Ann Moller, and a son, Christopher, from a previous marriage.
        Except for an eight-year sojourn at its rival, The Examiner, Mr. Caen has been a fixture of The Chronicle, and, according to surveys, better read than the paper's front page. Editors had even estimated that as many as a fifth of the paper's 500,000 readers might cancel their subscriptions after Mr. Caen's death.
        So avid were his fans that for years The Chronicle even ran old columns on Sunday, packaged as ''Classic Caen.'' Local bookstores are full of still in-print copies of old columns recycled into tomes.
        The columns combined gossip, news, word play and love to San Francisco and those lucky enough to live there, even when acknowledging  the unpleasant side of the city. ''The hookers are brazen, the abalone is frozen, and every night is Mugger's Day,'' he wrote in 1971. ''Yet, in spite of it all, San Francisco remains one of the great tourist cities. Most triumphantly, there is life in the streets -- raw, raucous, roistering and real.''
        Over the years Mr. Caen's journalistic work habits became as effortless as breathing: he wrote in the morning, held court in bars or cafes in the afternoon and took the pulse of the city at A-list events in the evenings, where the man with the cherubic smile and bald pate fringed with curly gray hair was as much a star as anyone he wrote about.
        Though the self-deprecating Mr. Caen referred to his daily output, pounded out with two fingers on a Royal typewriter, as journalistic stoop labor, he tossed out more than a few enduring bons mots. Baghdad-by-the-Bay and Berserkeley were his coinage. ''Don't call it Frisco,'' he admonished readers once, and locals never did again. ''Beatnik'' has also been credited to him.
        A play has been based on his columns and a mention in the same spot has been said to have saved numerous productions and restaurants.
        Critics complained that he did not pay for his own meals or clothes or even always write his own column -- charges that Mr. Caen never failed to shrug off, along with criticism that he was getting bitter in his old age.  ''That started when I was about 30,'' he recalled once.
        But on Herb Caen Day, when a three-mile stretch of waterfront sidewalk was named in his honor, the columnist was all honey. ''I've loved this town before I was born, and I'll love it after I'm gone,'' he told the crowd. ''One day if I do go to heaven, I'm going to do what every San Franciscan does who goes to heaven -- he looks around and says, 'It ain't bad, but it ain't San Francisco.' ''
      