
        The Rev. Robert A. Graham, an American priest who became one of the Roman Catholic Church's foremost authorities on the Vatican's role in the rescue of Jews in World War II, died on Feb. 10 at a Jesuit retirement home in Los Gatos, Calif. He was 84 and had been an outspoken defender of Pope Pius XII's wartime silence on Nazi atrocities towards Jews and others.
        Church officials said the cause was kidney failure.
        Until he was in his 50's, Father Graham's chief claim to fame was that his father, Charlie Graham, had played 30 games as a catcher and pinch hitter with the Boston Red Sox in 1906.
        A native of San Francisco who entered a Jesuit novitiate at 17 and was ordained at 29, he studied at various Jesuit colleges, earned a doctorate in political science from the University of Geneva in 1952 and then joined the staff of the Jesuit magazine America in New York.
        As the magazine's associate editor, he conducted research in the Vatican archives for his book ''Vatican Diplomacy,'' published in 1959.
        As Father Graham later recalled,  his work attracted little attention before 1963, when he was rescued from obscurity by Rolf Hochhuth, the German playwright whose play ''The Deputy,'' portrayed the wartime Pope, Pius XII, as a virtual Nazi collaborator who had refused to denounce the Holocaust even as Jews were being shipped to their deaths.
        The play created such controversy that the next year Pope Paul VI ordered secret Vatican records of the Nazi era to be opened and published. As one of four priests assigned to the task, Father Graham was soon making what he later described as stunning discoveries.
        In contrast to the image suggested by the play, Father Graham said he found records indicating that Pius XII had operated a vast underground railroad that rescued more than 800,000 European Jews from the Holocaust.
        ''Never were the Jews and the Vatican so close as during World War II,'' he said in a 1995 interview. ''The Vatican was the only place on the continent where they had any friends.''
        The records, eventually published in 11 volumes, did little to still the criticism of Pius XII for not speaking out against the persecution of Jews.
        In response, Father Graham and the church suggested that, at a time when 2,000 priests were among those imprisoned by the Germans and Rome itself came under their control, any public denunciations by the Pope would merely have made things worse both for the Jews and the church, as he suggested Pius's predecessor, Pius XI, had done in the 1930's when he proclaimed that ''spiritually, we are all Semites.''
        To this the critics offered a counter theory, that a public statement by the Pope might well have caused the Nazis to abandon their final solution and that, in any event, at a time when six million Jews were being systematically exterminated, nothing could have been worse.
        In addition to its central focus on the church's wartime policies, Father Graham's research led him into some byways of history. He used the Freedom of Information Act, for example, to obtain records showing that American intelligence officials had been so embarrassed when they discovered that a spy they had planted in the Vatican during the war had fabricated his riveting accounts of Papal audiences that documents about the case were buried for years on a Maryland farm.
        And in 1991 Father Graham gave a magazine a 1972 letter from Germany's wartime Ambassador to Italy, Rudolf Rahn, describing how he had talked Hitler out of a plan to kidnap the Pope.
        ''I'm 79,'' Father Graham said at the time. ''I thought I ought to unload this stuff before I pop off.''
        Over the years, as the debate on the Vatican's wartime role ebbed and flared anew, Father Graham continued to defend Pius XII. When critics, for example, suggested that the Pope had refrained from denouncing the Nazis because he was more afraid of the Communists, as indeed, was much of Catholic Europe, Father Graham pointed to research showing that the Pope had resisted repeated efforts to get him to support an early peace with Germany and even to give his blessing to a proposal to enlist Catholic legions to help Germany in its battles with the Soviet Union.
        Not that he dismissed the importance of Communism to the debate. Just last year, Father Graham published a book, ''The Vatican and Communism During World War II: What Really Happened?'' (Ignatius Press), in which he argued that Communist propaganda had influenced critics of the church's role in the war.
        He is survived by two nephews, the Rev. Francis Smith of Santa Clara, Calif., and Michael Smith of Sacramento.
      