
        Darcy Ribeiro, an anthropologist who unlocked the cultural riches of Brazil's Indians for the rest of his country, died at a hospital in Brasilia on Monday. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, according to a report from the Sarah Kubitschek Hospital.
        Though Mr. Ribeiro first came to international attention when he produced detailed and perceptive works on the ways of life of the Kadiweu and Kaapor Indians. He also became famous in Brazil as an educator, novelist, politician and government official.
        As a young, charismatic speaker, Mr. Ribeiro -- author of such books as ''Kadiweu Religion and Mythology'' in 1950, ''Art of the Kadiweu Indians'' the following year, and ''Indigenous Language and Cultures in Brazil'' in 1957 -- had a way of  discussing Indian cultures that made them accessible to lay listeners, and the fate of the Indians soon became one of his life's driving obsessions.
        His landmark work was the six-volume ''Studies of the Anthropology of Civilization,'' which he wrote in the 1960's. He was also the author of ''The Americas and Civilization,'' published in English in 1971. Many of his works were translated into English, French, German, Spanish and several other languages.
        The Brazilian President, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, called Mr. Ribeiro's death ''an immense loss of a rare talent, and an extraordinary imagination.''
        Leonel Brizola, a former governor of Rio de Janeiro state and a close friend of Mr. Ribeiro, said, ''We've lost one of the biggest fighters for good causes in the history of our country.''
        Mr. Ribeiro worked in the Government's Indian Protection Agency starting in 1946. In 1953, he founded the Museum of the Indian in Rio de Janeiro. He was also one of the founders of the University of Brasilia, where he became rector in 1961.
        After serving briefly as Minister of Education and Culture under President Joao Goulart, Mr. Ribeiro fled to Uruguay during the 1964 military coup that brought Gen. Humberto Castelo Branco to power.
        Mr. Ribeiro, a Socialist, returned in 1974, on special permission from the military, after he was diagnosed with lung cancer. After surgery during which one of his lungs was removed, Mr. Ribeiro said, ''At least now I can't get double pneumonia.''
        Doctors predicted that he would not live long, and it was this proximity to death that led Mr. Ribeiro to describe his cancer as a kind of ''rebirth.'' He said it unshackled his imagination and his preoccupation with respectability, allowing him to tackle his first, and most successful novel, ''Maira,'' published the following year.
        ''He thought somehow he would beat the cancer,'' said Danuza Leao,  a society columnist for the Jornal do Brasil, who would scrawl hearts around any items that had Darcy Ribeiro's name in them, so they appeared in print that way. ''We all thought he would pull through one more time.''
        Roberto DaMatta, a Brazilian anthropology professor at the University of Notre Dame, said Mr. Ribeiro was ''one of those larger than life characters, who did some nasty things, but they're all encompassed by this incredible bravery before destiny and their own egos.''
        The two anthropologists, who had been friends, nurtured a venomous dispute that began 17 years ago, when Mr. Ribeiro attacked Mr. DaMatta in print, criticizing what he characterized as Mr. DaMatta's quest for understanding Indian cultures independent of any outright political goal and calling Mr. DaMatta a right-wing reactionary.
        Mr. DaMatta fired back, demanding Mr. Ribeiro explain just what he had done, as a government official, to preserve Brazil's Indian lands.
        ''Darcy was obsessed with changing the world according to his own perceptions, so he couldn't accept anybody who said, 'Hey, I don't want to do that; I just want to understand,' '' said Mr. DaMatta.
        Shortly before Mr. Ribeiro's death, the two made peace in a teleophone conversation. ''Look, Darcy, forgive me for the things I said,'' Mr. DaMatta recalled telling his erstwhile enemy. The answer surprised and moved him.
        ''Don't talk about that,'' Mr. Ribeiro answered. ''I forgave you many years ago.''
        A Senator when he died, Mr. Ribeiro also reveled in his reputation as an incurable flirt. To celebrate his 73d birthday in November 1995, Mr. Ribeiro, who never had children, gathered the 50 women he loved most in his life. The only men at the party were the waiters.
        To Mr. DaMatta, Mr. Ribeiro was  ''one of those few human beings who was narcissistic without censorship'' -- a trait many people found delightful. ''Here was a guy who was somehow able to skip the superego,'' he said. ''There was only id and ego.''
      