
        Warren Weaver Jr., who covered politics and government in Albany, in Washington and across the country for The New York Times for virtually all his 42 years as a reporter, died this morning at Georgetown University Medical Center here. He was 74 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said his wife, the Washington columnist Marianne Means.
        During his 27 years in the Washington bureau of The Times, Mr. Weaver was assigned to most of the capital's important beats, including Congress and the Supreme Court.
        But for a reporter who thrived on politics, he had a debut at the newspaper that was not at all auspicious. His first day on the job, in New York, was Election Day 1948. While other reporters were preoccupied by election results, including what would prove to be President Harry S. Truman's upset of Thomas E. Dewey, he was covering a delicatessen opening.
        Mr. Weaver was born in Madison, Wis., and reared in Scarsdale, N.Y. His father, Dr. Warren Weaver, was a mathematician, educator and writer whose books ranged from one on probability theory to another on ''Alice in Wonderland.''
        Warren Jr. graduated from Amherst College in 1943, was a Navy officer during World War II, then  received a master's degree from the Columbia School of Journalism in 1947 and got a job as a reporter at The Watertown Times in upstate New York. A year later he joined The New York Times, which assigned him to its Albany bureau in 1950 and named him bureau chief in 1959.
        While in Albany, Mr. Weaver earned a degree from Albany Law School. He was later admitted to the New York and District of Columbia bars, although he never practiced law.
        Another feature of his Albany days was the role he took as the premier writer of parody songs performed by members of the Legislative Correspondents Association. He took that talent with him to Washington, where he became a mainstay of the Gridiron Club, an association of journalists whose dinner each year, in the words of the club, ''singes but never burns'' political figures. Mr. Weaver's skill at writing lyrics, his splendid tenor voice and his appearance -- a tall and lanky frame, full head of white hair and matching mustache gave him the distinguished look of the stereotypical senator he enjoyed lampooning -- made him a Gridiron favorite, and he continued to play a leading role in the club after his retirement in 1989.
        Mr. Weaver loved the coverage of politics -- the process, the drama, the foibles. During the 1988 Presidential campaign, he offered one instance of how politicians could put the best possible public face on some of the least satisfying of circumstances:
        ''Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic Party chairman, met with fellow Democrats last winter to see if they could get someone in the 1988 race who was more scintillating than Michael Dukakis. Mr. Strauss has now taken the lead in explaining why Mr. Dukakis is an infinitely more exciting and electable fellow than Vice President Bush, the prospective Republican nominee.
        '' 'He's like Cary Grant,' Mr. Strauss said of Mr. Dukakis, the Governor of Massachusetts, at a breakfast with reporters yesterday. Mr. Strauss maintained that Mr. Dukakis would make debonair points with the American people by addressing real problems like potholes and infrastructure.''
        Mr. Weaver's marriage to Barbara Woodall ended in divorce. Besides Ms. Means, a syndicated columnist for Hearst Newspapers, he is survived by four daughters, all from his first marriage: Carolyn Fenn of Abilene, Kan.; Sally Lee of Narberth, Pa.; Melissa Dunning of Berryville, Va., and Anne Weaver Buck of Underhill Center, Vt.; a sister, Helen Weaver of New Milford, Conn.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      