
        Archer Winsten, who spent 50 years turning out crisp, thoughtful movie reviews for The New York Post, but only, he insisted, because he found the job a pleasant enough alternative to actual work, died on Friday at a daughter's home in Moreau, N.Y. He was 92 and had retired in 1986.
        Mr. Winsten may not have been as lazy as he claimed to be, but during the half century he spent in screening rooms and at the typewriter, he never seemed to work up a sweat.
        That was because Mr. Winsten did not approach movies with furrowed brow, on the lookout for some auteur's allegorical meaning in a lighting scheme or camera angle, but with the expectant delight of someone who went to the movies to be entertained -- and always was. It's not that Mr. Winsten liked every movie he saw, but that he seemed to get as much pleasure panning a turkey as he did praising a gem.
        The son of an advertising executive, Mr. Winsten, who was born in Seattle and spent much of his boyhood in Kenosha, Wis., before graduating from Princeton in 1926, did not have a special interest in movies as a young man. He did have literary ambitions, but not enough to hone his craft to contemporary standards.
        After receiving a rejection that praised his novel but said it was ahead of its time, he abandoned fiction for newspaper work, first in Philadelphia and beginning in 1933 at The Post.
        Assigned to write a column, ''In the Wake of the News,'' in which he poked around the city coming up with offbeat stories, he was a critical success, but found that the job took so much time and effort that it was cutting into his social life as a denizen of the Manhattan night.
        In 1936, when his editor suggested he become a reviewer, Mr. Winsten decided that whiling away his time at the movies would be an ideal way to make a living.
        He quickly settled into a routine. Taking pains to avoid any early screenings, Mr. Winsten, who jotted down his week's schedule on an envelope he kept in his inside jacket pocket, would be up at the crack of noon or soon after. After an hour of handball at the local courts and another hour soaking in the tub, he would sally forth from his Bronx apartment to the movies, or ''going to work,'' as he told his family.
        After seeing as many as four movies, he would repair to his desk at The Post to write his reviews, sometimes staying until after midnight, before ending his workday on the town, often finishing up at 5 A.M. at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem.
        Mr. Winsten may have had a lackadaisical approach to his work, but the results were generally worth reading, so much so that he and Richard Watts Jr., The Post's longtime theater critic, became premiere attractions.
        That was at least partly because Mr. Winsten took a no-nonsense, meat and potatoes approach to his work, telling readers what he felt they would want to know in deciding whether they would enjoy a movie and making no effort to assess its artistic merit.
        Indeed, Mr. Winsten, who detested the term ''critic'' and insisted on being called a ''reviewer,'' rejected the very notion that motion pictures were some ineffable form of high art rather than a plausible alternative to, say, an evening at the wrestling matches.
        As a result, Mr. Winsten, who had a special fondness for westerns of the Roy Rogers ilk, concentrated on what he regarded as the substance of a movie, its actual plot and what it had to say, and generally dismissed the stylistic touches that could sometimes move other critics to the point of paroxysm.
        For all that, Mr. Winsten, who was respected by his colleagues as a consistently solid, intelligent reviewer, had a keen eye for excellence. He was an early champion, for example, of the 1949 classic ''All the King's Men,'' and he was one of the first reviewers to recognize the quality of European films.
        Indeed, Mr. Winsten became something of a legend in 1943 when he was the only local reviewer to praise the great Danish director Carl Dreyer's slow-moving ''Day of Wrath,'' now widely regarded as a cinematic triumph.
        When he took up skiing in his mid-30's and became instantly and irrevocably hooked, Mr. Winsten began writing regularly about the sport, typically, not because he wanted to share his joy with the world and certainly not because he was a glutton for work, but because he wanted the free ski weekends gratefully provided for the rest of his career by resorts eager for the publicity.
        Mr. Winsten is survived by two daughters, Martha, of Moreau, and Kay Howe of Queensbury, N.Y.; a son, Steve, of Moreau, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      