
        Leonard (Buddy) Edelen Jr., the first American marathoner in nearly four decades to set a world record, died of cancer in Tulsa, Okla., on Wednesday. He was 59.
        Edelen cut 48 seconds off the world record when he won Britain's Polytechnic Marathon, covering the 26 miles 385 yards in 2 hours 14 minutes 28 seconds on June 15, 1963. It was the first marathon record by an American since Albert Michelsen ran 2:29:02 in 1925. Afterward, Edelen was called ''America's great hope'' for a gold medal at the Summer Olympics in Tokyo in 1964. But a sciatic nerve condition caused him severe back pains, and he finished sixth. Edelen ran 13 more marathons, winning 7. He stopped competing at age 28.
        In the four years leading up to the 1964 Olympics, Edelen made $120 a month teaching in a private school in England and lived in a one-room apartment with no telephone and no refrigerator. When he lacked the $650 needed to go to the United States for the 1964 Olympic trials, youngsters in a Y.M.C.A. in Sioux Falls, S.D. -- the city where Edelen spent part of his childhood -- raised the money through car washes, dances, basketball games and donations.
        ''I was about 13 years too early,'' he said, reflecting on the money that became available to top marathoners. Edelen's training habits also stood out in contrast with the austere regimens used by other runners. He drank beer nightly and smoked a cigarette occasionally, although he logged 130 miles a week. ''Think how good I might be if I didn't have these vices,'' he once mused.
        As his running career was winding down, Edelen earned a master's degree in psychology at Adams State College in Alamosa, Colo., and went on to teach psychology at the school. He later worked as a promotions coordinator for Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company in Tulsa and for the state Department of Human Services.
        He is survived by his wife, Glenda; a son, Brent; four stepchildren, Yvonne Allen, Cindy Marsh, Teresa Waszut and Claudia Brashears, and 10 grandchildren.
      