
        Geoffrey Swaebe, a department store executive who ran the May Company's southern California operations for 10 years and later served five years as Ambassador to Belgium under Ronald Reagan, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 86.
        His son, Geoffrey Jr., said the cause was complications of pneumonia.
        By the time he settled down in California in 1962, Mr. Swaebe had been a merchandizer on the move. A native of London who came to Boston with his family when he was 12, he passed up college to take a job with the Florsheim Shoe Company. With time out to serve as an Army Captain in Europe in World War II, he eventually held executive positions with Florsheim and I. Miller  & Sons in Chicago, with Thalheimers Department Store in Richmond, Va., with Pizitz Department Store in Birmingham, Ala., and, from 1950 to 1962, with the Hecht Company in Baltimore.
        After the May Company took over the Hecht chain, Mr. Swaebe moved to Los Angeles in 1962 as president and chairman of its regional operations, remaining with the company until 1972, when he set up his own management consulting company.
        Except for a brief stint in New York in 1976 as chief executive of Abercrombie & Fitch during the store's bankruptcy proceedings, Mr. Swaebe stayed in California, becoming increasingly active in civic affairs and Republican politics.
        An early supporter of Mr. Reagan's run for President, he became a key fundraiser in the 1980 campaign.  The next year the new President made him the United States' representative at the United Nations in Geneva. In 1983, Mr. Swaebe was named Ambassador to Belgium, where he again faced a problem in connection with efforts to persuade Belgium not to back out of a plan to accept American nuclear missiles.
        In the face of a vocal opposition to the missiles that developed in Belgium early in 1985, Mr. Swaebe helped work out a plan that satisfied the Belgian leadership's political concerns.
        Under the plan, the missiles were shipped in and secured on a Belgian base within 24 hours after the Government gave its final approval, virtually assuring there would be no protracted protests between the time of the Government's decision and the deployment.
        Mr. Swaebe remained as Ambassador until 1988.
        In addition to his son, a Justice Department official in New York, he is survived by his wife, Mary.
      