
        Louis Auslander, distinguished professor of mathematics and computer science at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died Tuesday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in nearby Pelham Manor.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, the university said.
        Dr. Auslander was equally at home in the divergent branches of pure and applied mathematics, as evidenced in his voluminous output of books and research papers. He had been on the CUNY faculty since 1971, when he joined the sprawling institution's elite group of teachers recognized as distinguished professors.
        A native of Brooklyn, he graduated from Columbia College in 1949 and then earned an M.A. at Columbia. He received his doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1954, shortly after starting his teaching career as an instructor at Yale University.
        He advanced through the academic ranks at the University of Pennsylvania and Indiana University, was appointed a full professor at Purdue University in 1962 and taught at the Belfer Graduate School of Science, Yeshiva University, before joining the CUNY faculty.
        His contributions to pure mathematics came early in his career when he became a leading researcher in the field of group theory. In more recent decades, his interest focused on problems in applied mathematics.
        In particular, these included speeding up computations when dealing with signal-processing problems. Other areas of his work concerned radar, wave lengths and computational X-ray crystallography. In the course of his research, he did advanced work for both military and commercial use.
        ''In a profession where theoretical work retains a shelf life of several decades or more,'' said Prof. Dennis Sullivan, a fellow mathematician at CUNY, ''some of Auslander's early conjectures still continue to drive work in the field.''
        Among his textbooks, usually written with co-authors, were ''Unitary Representations of Solvable Lie Groups,'' published in 1990, ''Flat Lorentz Three Manifolds'' (1987) and ''Introduction to Differentiable Manifolds'' (1977). Earlier books included ''Flows on Homogeneous Spaces'' (1963), ''Differential Geometry'' (1966), ''Calculus'' (1971) and ''Mathematics Through Statistics'' (1972).
        Dr. Auslander's survivors include his wife, Fernande; two sons and a daughter from an earlier marriage, Nathan, of Deerfield, Ill., Daniel, of Pennington, N.J., and Rose Auslander of Brooklyn, and his mother, Ida Auslander of Richboro, Pa.
      