
        Dr. Ramon L. Santiago, a professor of secondary, adult and business education at Lehman College, and an authority on bilingual studies and English as a second language programs, died on March 12 at Albert Einstein Hospital in the Bronx. He was 57 and lived in the borough's Bedford Park neighborhood.
        The cause was bone cancer, according to Ricardo R. Fernandez, president of Lehman College, which is part of the City University of New York.
        At his death, Dr. Santiago directed the college's English as a second language program. He was appointed to the post in 1991, the college said.
        Starting in 1963, his teaching career took him from the University of Puerto Rico to the New York City public schools and Temple University. Throughout his career, he pursued the theory and practice of educating students who did not have English as their mother tongue, writing and editing several books and articles on the subject.
        In 1980, he founded the Bilingual Education Service Center at Georgetown University, in Washington, and directed it until 1989 while also teaching degree programs for elementary and secondary teachers. He was an adviser to dozens of other institutions and agencies.
        Dr. Santiago was working as a private consultant when Lehman College brought him back to the academic world. At Lehman, besides teaching, he oversaw revisions of the curriculum and closely coordinated his second-language program with the English department.
        A native of Bayamon, P.R., he moved to New York at 13 in 1952, along with his family. He graduated from Yale University in 1962 with a degree in English literature. He received his master's degree in English and education from Yale, and his doctorate in English as a second language and applied linguistics from Columbia Teachers College.
        He is survived by his wife, Ramonita Adorno de Santiago; a son, Ramon Jr., and a daughter, Paloma Santiago, both of the Bronx; his father, Dionisio, of Bayamon; two brothers, Antonio, of Bayamon, and Pedro, who lives in Louisiana, and five sisters, Marcelina Rivera of Miami, Lucy Tosado of Brooklyn, Judith Alvarez of Rome, N.Y., Julia Santiago of Lakewood, N.J., and Maria L. Velez and Gladys Figueroa, both of Puerto Rico.
      