
        Lloyd C. Wicke, former Methodist Bishop of Pittsburgh and then of New York, and an architect of the merger that created the United Methodist Church, died on Sunday at Park Medical Center in Columbus, Ohio. Bishop Wicke, who had recently returned to Columbus after making his home in Fort Myers, Fla., for 25 years, was 95.
        Bishop Wicke (pronounced WICK-ee) was the chairman of the Methodist Church committee that drew up the proposal leading to the church's merger in 1968 with the Evangelical United Brethren Church.
        On the day of that merger, more than 10,000 people filled the Dallas Memorial Auditorium for a two-hour service that sealed a bond of union toward which church leaders had been working for a decade.
        In a ''declaration of union'' toward the close of the service, Bishop Wicke clasped hands with Bishop Reuben H. Mueller of the Evangelical United Brethren Church across a table bearing the plan of union, and they solemnly intoned these words:
        ''Lord of the Church, we are united in Thee, in Thy Church and now in the United Methodist Church. Amen.''
        The words were repeated in turn by two children, two adolescents, two adults, six ministers representing the work of the two churches overseas, and finally 1,200 delegates of the churches from 50 countries, who stood and joined hands as they voiced the declaration.
        The United Methodist Church, created that day, consisted of more than 10 million Methodists and 750,000 members of the Evangelical United Brethren Church. Though its membership is now somewhat smaller, it remains the nation's second-largest Protestant denomination, after the  Southern Baptist Convention.
        Bishop Wicke was elected to the episcopacy in 1948 and served as the Bishop of the Pittsburgh area from 1948 to 1960 and of the New York area from 1960 to 1972, when he retired.
        He remained active in retirement,  preaching and serving on church  committees until some six years ago.
        Bishop Wicke was born in Cleveland in 1901 and received a bachelor of arts degree in 1923 from Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio, a bachelor of divinity degree in 1926 from Drew Theological Seminary in Madison, N.J., and a Ph.D. in 1938 from the seminary.
        He was ordained a deacon in 1925 and an elder in 1926. He held pastoral posts in the New Jersey towns of Paterson, Lafayette, Alpine and Leonia from 1925 to 1941, when he was named superintendent of the Methodist Church's Jersey City district.
        He is survived by his wife of 17 years, the former Eunice LeBourveau Ensley of Columbus; by Elaine Cowen of Fort Wayne, Ind., his daughter by his marriage to the former Gertrude Allen, who died many years ago, and by 7 grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren, 4 stepchildren and 11 step-grandchildren.
      