
        Roberto Sanchez Vilella, the somber, efficient, bespectacled technocrat who in 1964 became Puerto Rico's second elected Governor and then shocked the Commonwealth with an unlikely love affair that left his marriage, party and political career a shambles, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in San Juan. He was 84 and had cancer.
        When Luis Munoz Marin, the charismatic figure who had ruled Puerto Rico by virtual fiat, decided to step down after 16 years as Governor, there was no doubt about who would succeed him.
        Mr. Munoz, a revered figure who is regarded as the father of modern Puerto Rico, had seen to that simply by letting it be known that his choice was Mr. Sanchez, the brilliant administrator who had been his right-hand man for much of his political career.
        As a young man, Mr. Sanchez, a native of Mayaguez whose father had been Speaker of the Puerto Rican House of Representatives, had turned his back on politics and on Puerto Rico, obtaining a degree in civil engineering from Ohio State University and accepting a job with the new Tennessee Valley Authority. But Mr. Munoz persuaded him to return to Puerto Rico and devote his talents to the social and economic development of his homeland.
        Mr. Sanchez proved so adept at his work and so indispensable to his mentor that when Mr. Munoz organized the Popular Democratic Party and became president of the Puerto Rican Senate in 1940, Mr. Sanchez resigned as city manager of San Juan to become his chief legislative assistant.
        Over the next few years, Mr. Sanchez was deeply involved in every Munoz strategy and initiative, from his vaunted Operation Bootstrap, which transformed Puerto Rico from a near feudal agricultural society into a modern industrial state, to his campaign for increased autonomy from the United States.
        When Mr. Munoz became the first elected Governor, in 1948, Mr. Sanchez became his chief of staff. It was a measure of his value to the Munoz administration that after Puerto Rico gained full commonwealth status in 1952, Mr. Sanchez served simultaneously as Secretary of State and Secretary of Public Works.
        After Mr. Munoz anointed him as his successor, the voters obligingly swept Mr. Sanchez into office with 60 percent of the ballots.
        As Governor, Mr. Sanchez continued and expanded the Munoz economic and social programs and promoted younger politicians to the party leadership, stepping on some toes along the way.
        But while Mr. Munoz was a gregarious, emotional man who had ruled by the force of his personality, effectively suppressing factionalism within the party, Mr. Sanchez was a colorless administrator in black horn-rimmed glasses who puffed contemplatively on his pipe, gave up his lifelong fascination with horse racing upon taking office and had virtually no political base of his own.
        As a result, dissident politicians soon found they were able to form viable factions, which bickered among themselves and undermined Mr. Sanchez's authority, creating some doubts that he could win re-election.
        Whatever his chances, Mr. Sanchez, then a 55-year-old grandfather, effectively took himself out of the running in 1967 when he stunned all of Puerto Rico and his largely Roman Catholic constituency by announcing that he was divorcing his wife of 30 years to marry his 35-year-old staff assistant, Jeannette Ramos.
        The move was so shattering that although Mr. Sanchez said he would not seek re-election -- a decision that drew swift approval from Mr. Munoz -- his announcement produced a wave of demands that he resign immediately.
        Mr. Sanchez not only clung to his office as Mr. Munoz and other party leaders scrambled to find a replacement candidate, he also stunned the nation and his mentor all over again the next year when he announced that he would in fact seek re-election under the banner of a new People's Party, a decision that caused a break with Mr. Munoz that lasted until shortly before his death in 1980.
        Mr. Sanchez was swamped in the 1968 election but polled enough votes to sink the Popular Democratic Party candidate as well, handing that party its first defeat for governor. After an abortive race for the legislature in 1972, Mr. Sanchez retired from politics, taught at the University of Puerto Rico, resumed his trips to the track, played dominoes and became a panelist on a television program of political commentary.
        Like his first marriage, his second ended in divorce. His survivors include a daughter, Evelyn, from his first marriage, two children from his second, Olga Elizabeth Ramos and Roberto Jose Sanchez, a sister, Olga Sanchez Vilella, and several grandchildren, all of San Juan.
      