
        W. Lain Guthrie, a commercial airline pilot who became a cause celebre after he was dismissed for refusing, for environmental and safety reasons, to dump waste jet fuel from his plane, died on Sunday at his home in Miami. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, the family said.
        On Aug. 1, 1970, on his 30th anniversary as a pilot for Eastern Airlines, Captain Guthrie made international headlines by refusing to dump waste kerosene into the atmosphere as was the common practice.
        Instead, he kept his four-engine DC-8 on the ground and ordered the crew to drain the waste fuel that accumulated from the previous flight, before he would take off.
        ''I celebrated,'' he said of the anniversary, ''by deciding that I had dumped my last kerosene.''
        The airline dismissed him two months later for insubordination, saying he had caused frequent and long delays. But other pilots rallied around him, also refusing to dump fuel, and the resulting outcry forced Eastern to reinstate him with full pay and the industry to cease aerial dumping. Captain Guthrie retired shortly after he was reinstated.
        At the time the airline practice was to allow some kerosene to blow out of the hold onto the runway on takeoff and for pilots to dump the remainder later in the air. Captain Guthrie said that as much as 500 gallons was dumped every day in peak travel seasons over his home airport of Miami and that on occasion great quantities of fuel were jettisoned to help gain proper landing trim when flights were shortened.
        The fuel made runways greasy, increasing the risks that pilots faced when applying the brakes on landing, and contributed to the smog and poor visibility that they regarded as the most common hazard they faced. Airline officials insisted that the dumped fuel evaporated at high altitude and caused neither environmental damage nor flying hazards.
        The kerosene battle over the environment was not his first. In the 1960's he accused the United States Weather Bureau of issuing false reports on air quality that he said posed safety threats, accusing the bureau of misleading the public into thinking that air visibility problems were often natural ''haze'' when it was clear to the pilots that it was smoke or smog resulting from industrial or man-made pollution. The problem had to be properly labeled and understood before it could be fixed, he said.
        American pilots reported seeing the skies becoming less and less clear in the 1950's and 1960's over broad regions, not simply increasing over urban areas, and, Captain Guthrie said, they could see the sources of pollution emanating from discreet sections of the earth's surface below.
        In 1966, his pilot's license was suspended for 60 says for refusing to let a Federal Aviation Administration inspector enter his cockpit for a routine inspection. He did so, he said, because the Civil Aeronautics Board had refused his request that it investigate the Weather Bureau's reporting procedures. Federal aviation officials, he said, had abdicated their rights to protect the public.
        William Lain Guthrie was born in Lawton, Okla., and grew up on the family farm near Bloomfield, Iowa. He was a graduate of Cornell College in Mount Vernon, Iowa, and married his college sweetheart, Jean Ruth Mikiff.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Janet Guthrie, Margaret Guthrie and Anne Guthrie; two sons, Walter and Stewart, and a sister, Marie.
      