
        Raymond LambertRaymond Lambert, a Swiss mountaineer who came within 800 vertical feet of immortality in 1952 but had to console himself ever after with the knowledge that he had paved the way for Sir Edmund Hillary's conquest of Mount Everest a year later, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Geneva. He was 82.
        His family said the cause was complications of a lung disorder.
        Scaling Mt. Everest has become so commonplace, with dozens of high-tech climbers making it to the 29,028-foot summit each year, that it is easy to forget how formidable the challenge seemed in 1952, when Mr. Lambert and his Sherpa companion Tenzing Norgay came as close as anyone before them who lived to tell the tale.
        For a century the Himalayan mountain on the Nepal-Tibet border had been recognized as the world's highest, but beginning in 1921 repeated efforts to scale it had failed in the thin air and vicious storms around the peak.
        The Swiss expedition that made the 1952 attempt was the first to approach the peak from the southern, Nepalese side, which had long been sealed to foreigners.
        In the end, their rudimentary oxygen equipment, which could be used only at rest and not on the move, proved insufficient for the task. After spending the night without sleeping bags close to the summit, the two men made a laboriously slow attempt to reach the peak but were too exhausted to complete it.
        The date was May 28, 1952, and it was no coincidence that Mr. Tenzing latched on with Sir Edmund's expedition and that a year and a day later, following much the same route as the Swiss, they became the first men to stand on top of the world.
        For as Col. John Hunt, the leader of the 1953 British expedition, made clear, the knowledge generated by the Swiss expedition a year earlier had been indispensible in planning and carrying out the successful ascent.
        As he put it in a telegram to Mr. Lambert and the half dozen other Swiss climbers who had mounted the 1952 expedition, ''To you, a good half of the glory.''
        By the time of the 1952 attempt, Mr. Lambert, a native of Geneva who began rock climbing when he was 15, was one of the best known mountain climbers in Switzerland. He lost his toes and some fingers to frostbite on Mount Blanc in 1937 but went on to accompany so many people to the peak that he became the first Alpine guide to operate his business from Geneva rather than from a remote mountain outpost.
        It was typical of his approach to the sport that the 1952 expedition did not have a sponsor but was mounted by a group of friends who simply liked climbing together and decided that Mount Everest was where they wanted to climb next.
        After the failure in May 1952, Mr. Lambert joined another Swiss expedition that made an attempt at Everest that fall. Once again it was Mr. Lambert and Mr. Tenzing who climbed closest to the top, but that time the weather was so bad they did not get as far as they had in the spring.
        Although Mr. Lambert continued to climb in the Himalayas and made several climbing trips to South America and elsewhere, he never tried Everest again.
        After his Himalayan days, Mr. Lambert made his living as a pilot, ferrying skiers, hikers and others to remote Swiss glaciers.
        Mr. Lambert and two of his fellow climbers described the 1952 expeditions in a 1954 book, ''Forerunner to Everest,'' but for the Swiss the written account was not enough. For the rest of his life Mr. Lambert was forced to tell his story over and over, sometimes at organized meetings, often in casual encounters.
        He is survived by his wife, Annette; a son, Yves, and a daughter, Catherine, both of Geneva, and a brother, Roger, of Wettingen, Switzerland.
      