
        Dr. Alfonso Ortiz, an anthropologist who occupied an unusual spot in academia as a Pueblo Indian writing about his own people, died on Monday at his home here. He was 57.
        His family said the cause was complications from a longstanding heart ailment.
        Dr. Ortiz wrote ''The Tewa World: Space, Time, Being and Becoming in a Pueblo Society'' (University of Chicago Press, 1969), a book that anthropologists consider a landmark. It is a rare insider's view of how a Pueblo culture, the Tewa-speaking Indians of northern New Mexico, perceives the universe.
        After the book was published, Dr. Ortiz found himself ostracized by some of his own people, who felt that he had betrayed religious secrets. But his colleagues hailed the book as a masterpiece. He was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim fellowship in 1975, and became a MacArthur  Fellow in 1982.
        In a conversation with a reporter several years ago, Dr. Ortiz insisted that he had not revealed important secrets and that much of the material had already leaked out over the years in anthropology journals. But by weaving the threads into a coherent theory, he attracted the attention not only of academics but also of the Tewa themselves, becoming persona non grata among some tribal elders.
        ''His work alienated him from his own people because he told things he wasn't supposed to say,'' said the anthropologist Dr. Edward T. Hall, who did some of his early research on the Navajo and Hopi tribes. ''On the other hand, he told people in the outside world things they wanted to know. He was caught between the horns of a dilemma and he suffered for that.''
        Alfonso Ortiz was born on April 30, 1939, at San Juan, the largest of the six surviving Tewa pueblos. He excelled as a high school student in the nearby town of Espanola, N.M., winning a National Merit Scholarship and earning a bachelor's degree in sociology from the University of New Mexico in 1961. After a year at Arizona State University, he received his master's and doctoral degrees in anthropology at the University of Chicago. He taught at Princeton University for seven years before returning home in 1974 as a professor at the University of New Mexico.
        Before the publication of ''The Tewa World,'' anthropological knowledge of the northern New Mexico Pueblos was vague and spotty. After the abuse the Indians suffered under Spanish occupation, they were suspicious of anyone inquiring about their religious beliefs. The anthropologist Dr. Elsie Clews Parsons, who  moved to a village near San Juan Pueblo in the 1920's, once complained in a report that one of her informants delighted in leading her down the garden path with fabricated wisdom.
        After Dr. Ortiz began studying anthropology, he found some of the published reports suspect. He liked to tell visitors about the time he  showed his father and an uncle one of the classic works of northern New Mexico anthropology, Dr. John P. Harrington's ''The Ethnogeography of the Tewa Indians,'' published in 1916. When Dr. Ortiz read aloud some of the names of mesas and arroyos supposedly used by the San Juan people, the two men howled  with laughter. Dr. Harrington's informants, confronted by a white man handing out money in return for geographical lore, had apparently improvised some of the information on the spot.
        As a member of San Juan Pueblo, Dr. Ortiz found it much easier to penetrate the mystery. He supplemented his own knowledge of Pueblo rituals and religion with anthropological field work. The result was a detailed description of an intricate world view in which the universe surrounding each pueblo is demarcated by four sacred mountains, each associated with a direction, a color, an animal, a mineral and a star.
        Within the ring of sacred mountains is a ring of sacred mesas, and within that a ring of sacred shrines. Dwelling in this world, the Tewa people divide themselves into three categories, each mirrored by a group of spirits dwelling in the netherworld. Other anthropologists had written  about some of the details. But Dr. Ortiz assembled them into a system of beautiful intricacy.
        Dr. Marta Weigle, chairwoman of the anthropology department at New Mexico, said Dr. Ortiz was affectionately known by some of his colleagues as a ''coyote.'' She said they meant the word in two senses. ''Coyote'' is local Spanish slang for a person of mixed blood. Like most Pueblo Indians, Dr. Ortiz was part  Hispanic -- an uncle, Emilio Naranjo was for years the boss of the Democratic political machine in Rio Arriba County, which surrounds San Juan Pueblo. More important, in Pueblo lore the coyote is a trickster,  an iconoclast who delights in shaking up the conventional wisdom.
        After the success of ''The Tewa World,'' Dr. Ortiz edited several volumes on American Indian anthropology, but his plan to extend ''The Tewa World'' into a trilogy never materialized. Instead, he spent much of his time encouraging Indians and other minorities to pursue academic careers.
        In the late 1970's, Dr. Ortiz served as chairman of the Ford Foundation's selection committee for doctoral fellowships for American Indians. More recently he was an adviser for the documentary ''Surviving Columbus: The Story of the Pueblo  People,'' winner of a Peabody Award in 1993.
        Dr. Ortiz is survived by his mother, Guadalupe Ortiz, of Espanola; two daughters, Elena, of Santa Fe, and Juliana, of San Diego; a son, Nico, of Chicago, and two sisters, Sylvia Medina, of San Juan Pueblo, and Louisa Montoya, of Inglewood, Calif.
      