
        Otto John, a high West German official who was at the center of a mysterious cold war episode, died on Wednesday in a sanitarium in Innsbruck, Austria. He was 88 and lived at Igls outside Innsbruck.
        As a member of the German resistance to the Nazis, Mr. John also played a minor role in the unsuccessful plot to kill Hitler in 1944 and then escaped to Britain.
        In reporting his death, the influential German newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung said: ''No resistance-fighter against the Nazi regime became so entangled in the political disorder of Germany while it was divided'' during the cold war. The paper called his story ''one of the most mysterious criminal cases of post-war history.''
        Mr. John was born in Marburg, north of Frankfurt, the son of a minor provincial official, and grew up to be ''a conservative and even a royalist at heart,'' who ''had no use for the Nazis,'' Joachim Joesten wrote in his 1963 book ''They Call it Intelligence: Spies and Spy Techniques since World War II.''
        He earned a doctorate in law from the University of Marburg. In 1937, with Hitler in power, Mr. John moved to Berlin and became a staff lawyer for the German airline Lufthansa. In that post, he was often in touch with foreigners, and he made use of those ties in his activities as an opponent of Nazism, becoming, as the Suddeutsche Zeitung put it, ''a sort of Foreign Minister for the resistance against Hitler.''
        After World War II, in 1950, Mr. John reportedly became the first president of West Germany's counterintelligence service, the Office for the Protection of the Constitution.
        Then, in mid-1954, he disappeared. Not long afterward he turned up in Communist East Berlin, causing shock in Bonn and friendly capitals. German officials concluded that he had switched sides in the cold war.
        Mr. John stayed in East Germany for more than a year, denouncing Konrad Adenauer, who was then West Germany's Chancellor. As it happened, Mr. Adenauer had mistrusted Mr. John before his apparent defection and the Chancellor considered his suspicions to have been confirmed when his counterintelligence chief appeared on the other side of the Iron Curtain.
        In East Germany, Mr. John was the Communists' star attraction for a while. In his public appearances, he also asserted that Nazism and militarism were rampant in West Germany. But he gradually faded out of the limelight, and late in 1955, with the help of a Danish journalist, he returned to West Germany. For the rest of his life, he asserted that he had been drugged and kidnapped to East Berlin by East German agents.
        The Suddeutsche Zeitung said on Saturday that ''Recent discoveries in documents from the archives of the K.G.B.,'' the Soviet intelligence agency, ''are said to have contradicted his representations.''
        In 1956, Mr. John was convicted of treasonable plotting and sentenced to four years' hard labor. At the trial, he testified that a friend, Dr. Wolfgang Wohlgemuth, had drugged his coffee and abducted him from West Berlin into East Berlin. Mr. John said he had criticized policies of the Bonn Government to make sure that he was safe in East Germany.
        After the verdict, Mr. John expressed bitterness about the fact that in the court that found him guilty, there were judges who had been on the bench during the Hitler era.
        Dr. Wohlgemuth testified at his own trial on treason-related charges in 1958 that Mr. John had gone to East Berlin of his own free will because he was concerned about the rise of neo-Nazism in West Germany and wanted to exchange views about the future of Germany with the people of East Germany.
        Dr. Wohlgemuth also said he had prepared a meeting for Mr. John in an East Berlin villa with East German Communist officials and a representative of the Soviet Embassy. But Dr. Wohlgemuth testified that there were no serious talks because the session became a party with much drinking. It was during the party and the drinking, he recounted, that Mr. John declared that he intended to stay on in East Germany.
        ''Everything would probably have been different if we hadn't had any alcohol,'' Dr. Wohlgemuth went on. ''Perhaps I should have thrown John over my shoulder and loaded him into the car.''
        Mr. John was released from prison in 1958 after being pardoned by West Germany's President, Theodor Heuss. In later years, he tried repeatedly, and in vain, to have the courts exonerate him.
      