
        Kingsley Davis, the sociologist and demographics expert who coined the term ''zero population growth,'' argued passionately for a wide range of measures to bring it about and then, paradoxically, warned of the dangers of low birthrates, died on Feb. 27 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 88 and had ended his academic career as a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution there.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Although he was a recognized giant in his field, Dr. Davis, an eloquent debater who seemed happiest defending some daring theory he had dreamed up, spent so much of his career embroiled in so many academic controversies and policy disputes that he was once called a social scientist provocateur.
        Indeed, by the time he turned to demographics in the 1940's, Dr. Davis had already stirred controversy as a sociologist specializing in family relationships. One of the first sociologists to focus on issues previously considered too intimate to explore, he raised eyebrows with a paper focusing on male sexual jealousy as a foundation stone of social organization and raised them even higher when he argued that prostitution was a benefit to society.
        A collateral descendant of the Confederate President Jefferson Davis, Dr. Davis, who was born in Tuxedo, Tex., took a while to find his academic niche and even longer to find a long-term academic home. An English major at the University of Texas, where he edited its literary magazine, he switched to philosophy for a master's degree there and then went to Harvard for a doctorate in sociology.
        After brief teaching stints at Smith and at Clark College, he spent seven years at Penn State University, four at Princeton University and seven at Columbia University before settling down at the University of California at Berkeley in 1955 for a 22-year run followed by 13 years at the University of Southern California with a parallel appointment at Hoover, and then his retirement in 1992.
        His 1947 book ''Human Relationships,'' was long a standard sociology text. But Dr. Davis established his reputation in demographics two years earlier with a paper that explored and named the theory of demographic transition. It held that developing societies with high birth and death rates, and a consequently stable population, will experience first a decline in death rates and a surge in population and then a fall in birthrates until stability is reached once again, this time with low birth and death rates.
        Although the underlying theory is still viable in demographic circles, it required considerable modification after its original version was almost immediately disproved by the American baby boom. For all that, Dr. Davis's understanding of the factors behind population trends was so formidable that in 1957 he predicted that by the year 2000 the world's population would be nearing six billion, a total that current estimates say will actually be reached only a year or two earlier.
        Dr. Davis created something of a sensation in 1967 when he published an article in Science magazine arguing that merely distributing contraceptive devices in undeveloped societies would have a negligible effect on runaway population growth. The underlying motivations for large families were so well ingrained, he argued, and the consequences of unbridled growth so catastrophic that sterner measures going ''beyond zero population growth'' would be required to avert disaster.
        Although his ideas were disputed at the time, population specialists credit Dr. Davis's approach with increasing the use of contraceptives in developing nations to almost 50 percent today from less than 10 percent.
        Curiously, having established himself as a latter-day Malthus warning of the dangers of unchecked population growth, by the end of his career Dr. Davis was pointing to the dangers of excessively low birthrates in the West, a shift that he felt would leave the world with a shortage of educated leaders at a time that the population of developing countries continued to surge.
        Dr. Davis is survived by his wife, Marta Seoane; their 9-year-old son, Alexander; three children by previous marriages, Jo Ann Daily of Santa Barbara, Calif., Jefferson Davis of Santa Fe, N.M., and Laura Davis of Boston, and two grandchildren.
      