
        Stanley Fink, a Brooklyn Democrat who helped strengthen the power of the New York State Legislature during his term as Assembly Speaker in the post-Rockefeller era, died Tuesday night at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, according to Michelle Marcella, a spokeswoman for the hospital. Mr.  Fink had been in failing health since late January, when he underwent surgery for a recurrence of cancer.
        Hard-edged, determined and brash, with the gruff intonations of Brooklyn deeply imbedded in his voice, Mr. Fink managed during his seven-year term as Speaker in the early 1980's to turn the maverick members of the Democratic Assembly's majority into a unified political force that leaders in both parties must reckon with to this day.
        Mr. Fink also forged a powerful alliance with the Republicans who controlled the Senate, repeatedly leading the Legislature to block the policy initiatives of two governors in favor of its own agenda.
        He was a key player in the resurrection of New York City's neglected  transit system in the 1980's, helping craft and push through the Legislature an $8 billion plan to overhaul the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's vast network of subways, buses and commuter railroads.
        Throughout his career Mr. Fink  pushed, too, for more money for schools and helped pass legislation in 1979 that significantly increased state support for the City University of New York.
        His colleagues considered him an  articulate and persuasive leader who was guided by a traditional liberal conviction that government exists to provide services and protections that people cannot provide for themselves.
        Mr. Fink was a large presence in Albany, standing out at a time when the state capital was a place of large political presences -- from Governor Mario M. Cuomo to Warren B. Anderson, Mr. Fink's Republican counterpart in the State Senate. He was funny and sharp and quick on his feet. That said, he was quick-tempered and dismissive, could be harsh to anyone he considered his political or intellectual inferior, and was slow to accept women in professional roles.
        In a sign of the respect he carried across party lines, both Democrat and Republican leaders offered fond remembrances today of Mr. Fink, who decided not to seek re-election in 1986 after 18 years as a state legislator.
        Mr. Cuomo, who often clashed with Mr. Fink when he was in office, said that Mr. Fink brought an uncommon combination of pragmatism and idealism that earned him the trust of his colleagues in a notably competitive group of Democrats. ''He was one of the best public officials I ever knew,'' he said. ''I think the consensus is he was one of the best Speakers this century.
        Mr. Anderson, the former Republican majority leader in the Senate who became an unlikely ally of Mr. Fink during the 1980's, called him one of his best friends, adding, ''He was a strong advocate of the Legislature, vis-a-vis the Governor, perhaps in a way that it hadn't been.''
        Born in Brooklyn on Feb. 6, 1936, Mr. Fink attended New Utrecht High School and Brooklyn College, where he graduated in 1956. He received a law degree from New York University Law School in 1959.
        He then joined the Air Force, serving in England as a commissioned second lieutenant with the Judge Advocate General's office. He was discharged in 1962 as a captain.
        He returned to Brooklyn, where he practiced law and became increasingly involved in community and civic affairs. In 1968, he was hired as chief counsel for the Assembly's Committee on Mental Hygiene.
        Mr. Fink first ran and won election to the Assembly in 1968. He rose quickly in the Assembly leadership, becoming majority leader in 1977 and the 98th Speaker in 1979. He became the fourth in a line of Brooklyn Democrats to rise to Assembly Speaker since 1935. Stanley Steingut, Anthony J. Travia and Irwin Steingut preceded him.
        He was widely viewed as assertive, sometimes blunt, and strengthened the Assembly's role as a body independent of even Democratic governors like Mario M. Cuomo and Hugh L. Carey.
        As Speaker, Mr. Fink became one of the first prominent government figures in the nation to speak out about the need for infrastructure investment, and he cited such concerns in opposing tax cuts proposed by former Gov. Carey.
        In 1982, Mr. Fink and Richard Ravitch, then chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, were the chief architects of a financial plan that rescued the New York City subway system from collapse after a generation of neglect.
        Mr. Ravitch said today that without Mr. Fink, the politically difficult subway system rescue package, which included tax increases, would never have passed.
        ''None of the legislation I sought in Albany would have had a snowball's chance in hell if it weren't for Stanley Fink,'' he said. ''What he did for the transportation system he did for a lot of important causes.''
        During his tenure, Mr. Fink also worked to build alliances with the Republicans in the Senate, then led by Mr. Anderson, a senator from Binghamton. In the last years of Gov. Carey's term, for example, Mr. Fink often joined with Senator Anderson to increase the power of the Legislature and override veto after veto by the Governor.
        Mr. Fink decided not to seek re-election in 1986, saying he wanted to spend more time with his family and earn more money in the private sector. He went immediately to work at Bower & Gardner, a Manhattan law firm where he previously served only part time. Mr. Fink was senior vice president for regulatory and Government affairs for NYNEX at the time of his death.
        Looking back on his career in an interview several years ago, Mr. Fink said the key to his rise in the Legislature was that he immersed himself in the important policy questions of his day and tried to provide meaningful solutions.
        ''My contention than and now is that people gain power, particularly in the Legislature, through the accumulation of knowledge,'' he said. ''It is, in my opinion, the single surest way to gain influence and power. I spent a lot of time learning the issues of my day and being involved in attempting to propose solutions. That is what I mean about being an activist.''
        Mr. Fink is survived by his wife, Judith, and his two sons, Marc and Keith, all of Manhattan.
      