
        Wayne David Fischer, a New York City high school teacher who publicly disclosed his infection with the AIDS virus and then chronicled the progress of the illness in a weekly television program, died of the disease on Sunday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 39 and lived in Manhattan.
        On Mondays, Mr. Fischer appeared in ''AIDS: A Journal of Hope,'' on the cable station New York 1 News, with the reporter Debby Feyerick.
        With his own hand-held camera, Mr. Fischer simply recorded the events of his life: injections and infusions of drugs, candlelight vigils and trips to Brazil, hospitalizations and family gatherings, and -- so vital for a lifelong Yankees fan -- the sixth game of the World Series last year.
        ''For a lot of people, this was the first person they knew with AIDS,'' Ms. Feyerick said on Monday.
        Until he retired in 1993 because of his illness, Mr. Fischer had been a special-education teacher at Martin L. King Jr. High School on the West Side of Manhattan, specializing in math.
        He thrust himself into the spotlight in 1990 during the storm over a proposal by Schools Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez to distribute condoms to public school students to curb AIDS transmission.
        At a crowded meeting of the Board of Education in September 1990, Mr. Fischer, in backing the distribution of condoms, disclosed that he was gay and infected with H.I.V., which causes AIDS. He said he believed he was the first public school teacher in New York to acknowledge his H.I.V. status so openly.
        A month later, as reported in Newsday, he was discussing AIDS with a health-education class. ''You have to make choices,'' he told the students. ''You do have the opportunity -- assuming you're all H.I.V.-negative -- to stay H.I.V.-negative. Ten years from now, I don't want you saying 'I didn't listen to Mr. Fischer and I have H.I.V.' ''
        Stephanie D'Amore, the principal at King High School, said Mr. Fischer's presence had encouraged the quick development of an AIDS prevention program and a gay and lesbian counseling group at the school. ''He was a conscience for us,'' she said.
        In February 1993, Mr. Fischer ran in a special election for the City Council from the East Side, handing out condoms with his campaign literature. He finished last in a field of seven. Five months later, he began his program on New York 1, which continued through Monday's final episode, in which Mr. Fischer was shown dying.
        Mr. Fischer is survived by his companion, Jorge Bendersky; his mother, Evelyn Cassidy of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Fischer of Queens, and two sisters, Robin Simms of Staten Island and Diane Spinelli of Brooklyn.
      