
        Christopher Boatwright, a principal dancer with the Stuttgart Ballet, the San Francisco Ballet and the Lines Contemporary Ballet, died on Sunday at the Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. Mr. Boatwright was 42 and lived in San Francisco.
        The cause was AIDS, said a Lines spokeswoman, Pam Hagen.
        Mr. Boatwright was known for his elegant classicism and the clarity and lyricism of his dancing, as well as for the warmth of his stage presence. ''With his long-legged, sustained line, Mr. Boatwright offers a nobility that was, on this occasion, humanized by a certain grace,'' Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in a 1979 review of his performance as Romeo in the Stuttgart production of John Cranko's ''Romeo and Juliet.'' ''One remembers the moment in the balcony pas de deux when he arched his back deeply as an expression of feeling.''
        Mr. Boatwright was born in Brooklyn and was a high school athlete when he encountered dance. He trained at the schools of Merce Cunningham and American Ballet Theater and at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center. He left to study and perform at the Stuttgart after seeing Cranko's ''Eugene Onegin'' danced by the German company at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York in 1973.
        He was often cited as one of the few black American ballet dancers to achieve national and international recognition. In his nine years with the German company, he danced in a wide variety of styles in ballets by George Balanchine, Glen Tetley, William Forsythe, Lar Lubovitch and other contemporary choreographers. He returned to the United States in the mid-1980's and in 1985 joined Jean-Paul Comelin's Arizona Dance Theater, where he performed the prince in ''The Nutcracker.''
        Mr. Boatwright moved on to San Francisco and danced with the Lines company for a year before joining San Francisco Ballet, where he added works by Frederick Ashton, Paul Taylor and the company director, Helgi Tomasson, to his repertory. His career with the company ended with a hip injury and a growing deafness brought on by painkillers. Mr. Boatwright became a ballet teacher, rehabilitating his body until he was able to rejoin Lines in 1993. His last performance was in June, when he danced with Lines in New York City.
        Mr. Boatwright is survived by his mother, Mabel, of Brooklyn.
      