
        Melvin G. Marcus, a specialist in alpine and polar geography who headed several national commissions to assess geographic education, died on Sunday while on a field trip in the snow-covered mountains near Silverton, Colo. He was 67 and lived in Tempe, Ariz., where he was a geography professor at Arizona State University.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, the university said on Wednesday.
        Dr. Marcus and a group of students were measuring the snow pack at the 11,000-foot-high Molas Pass, said Dr. Pat Gober, a fellow geography professor at Arizona State. Dr. Marcus told the group to wait for him while he went to his car. When he did not return, they headed for the car and found him lying dead in the snow, his dog curled up against him.
        In more than 40 years of field research, Dr. Marcus had studied glaciers in Alaska and New Zealand, mountains in Turkey and Nepal, the vegetation of the Grand Canyon and climate problems in football stadiums. He also headed commissions of the National Science Foundation and the National Academy of Sciences that investigated the state of geography education in this country and developed a new set of standards for teaching the subject.
        He was a former president of the Association of American Geographers and had been a vice president of the American Geographical Society since 1986. The society had planned next week to award him its Cullum Medal for significant contributions to geographical science.
        ''Mel was one of the three or four most important geographers in this country and one of the dozen most important internationally,'' said Mary Lynne Bird, executive director of the society.
        Dr. Marcus was born on April 13, 1929, in Seattle. He was an Air Force pilot in the Korean War and then graduated from the University of Miami in 1956 and received a doctorate in geography from the University of Chicago in 1963. Before joining the faculty at Arizona State, he taught at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor for 10 years.
        He is survived by his wife of 43 years, the former Mary Ann Allen; two sons, Andrew, of Bozeman, Mont., and Benjamin, of Tempe; two daughters, Annette, of Ojai, Calif., and Alison, of Bozeman, and three grandchildren.
      