
        Michael Manley, who dominated Jamaican politics for a generation and became one of the most eloquent spokesmen for third-world causes, died Thursday night at his home outside Kingston. He was 72 and had long suffered from prostate cancer.
        In a political career that began under British colonial rule in the 1950's and ended only when declining health forced him to step down as Prime Minister in 1992, Mr. Manley championed issues ranging from Caribbean solidarity to the reordering of the global economy.
        He was born to wealth and privilege but made his mark as an advocate for the impoverished and underprivileged, in Jamaica and throughout the developing world.
        ''Gross maldistribution of the world's wealth and food is no longer a moral offense only,'' Mr. Manley wrote in an article for The New York Times in 1975 that was a typical expression of his political views. ''It now represents the greatest practical threat to peace and to any desirable development of mankind.''
        Prime Minister P. J. Patterson, Mr. Manley's protege, described his predecessor as a ''colossal figure,'' and Jamaicans began lining up before dawn yesterday outside the Prime Minister's official residence to offer their condolences.
        Michael Norman Manley was born in Kingston on Dec. 10, 1924, into one of the island's most notable families. His father, Norman Washington Manley, was an Oxford-trained lawyer and orator who was to lead Jamaica to independence as Prime Minister from 1955 to 1962. His English-born mother, Edna Swithenbank Manley, was a prominent sculptor.
        From birth, Mr. Manley was raised in an atmosphere that combined political and artistic ferment. Norman Manley founded the People's National Party, which would eventually serve as the vehicle to power for both father and son, in 1938, while Edna Manley became the focal point of a lively circle of artists, poets and musicians who made the Manley estate, Drumblair, their second home.
        Though Mr. Manley later said he considered himself ''the most privileged man in Jamaica'' because of that upbringing, he enlisted in the Royal Canadian Air Force as an 18-year-old, in part to establish an identity independent of his glittering parents. He served a year and a half but did not see combat.
        Once World War II ended, he enrolled at the London School of Economics, where he was exposed to the democratic brand of socialism espoused by Harold Laski, who became his intellectual mentor.
        After his return to Jamaica in December 1951, Mr. Manley quickly became involved in the trade union movement, focusing his efforts on improving salaries and living conditions for the island's sugar and bauxite workers. In 1962, when Jamaica achieved independence from Britain, he was appointed to the Senate; five years later, he was elected to Parliament and became vice president of the party his father was still leading.
        In 1969, Norman Manley died, and Michael Manley succeeded him as president of the People's National Party. Tall, handsome, charismatic and a spellbinding orator who enthralled large crowds on the campaign trail, Mr. Manley won a landslide victory in the general election that followed in 1972, becoming Jamaica's fourth Prime Minister.
        Once in office, Mr. Manley set out to reduce what he called the ''irrational and dangerous'' economic inequalities and class divisions that defined Jamaican society. He expanded the health and education systems, organized job training programs for the young and the unemployed, fostered racial pride and tried to encourage agricultural self-sufficiency through state farms.
        That same year, Mr. Manley addressed the United Nations and chastised what he called ''the misplaced priorities'' of its members, ''especially the most powerful and wealthy ones.'' Along with Prime Minister Indira Ghandi of India and President Julius K. Nyerere of Tanzania, Mr. Manley became one of the most outspoken advocates of what he called a new international economic order for developing nations.
        ''The point is that now some two-thirds of mankind have been reduced to a peripheral status in political, economic and even social terms,'' he wrote. The solution, he argued, was a redistribution of the world's wealth, with the poor countries that ''own the resources and provide the essential infrastructure and the labor force'' getting a larger share. To do that, he argued in one memorable phrase, capitalism should be demolished ''brick by brick.''
        At home, he tried to put theory into practice by raising royalties on exports of bauxite, the ore from which aluminum is made, and acquiring a controlling share of American and Canadian bauxite companies. He was successful on both counts, but in doing so antagonized the Nixon and Ford Administrations.
        Mr. Manley also sought a much closer relationship with Cuba, which further strained his ties with the United States. He imported hundreds of Cuban doctors, teachers and construction workers and invited Fidel Castro, whom he described as ''a man of extraordinary political sophistication,'' to visit Jamaica.
        Later, Mr. Manley said that even though the United States ''overreacted'' to his friendship with Mr. Castro, he too bore part of the blame for the deterioration of Jamaica's relationship with Washington. ''We became defiant about it, and that was a mistake,'' he said in 1988.
        Though of mixed racial background, Mr. Manley also became one of most forceful boosters and benefactors of the Black Power movement that swept the Caribbean.
        ''An epoch of brainwashing in white-oriented society has left scars which, however unconscious, mar the inner assurance with which black people accept their own forms of beauty and excellence,'' he proclaimed in 1969.
        In his 1972 election campaign, Mr. Manley often wore African garb and carried the ''Rod of Joshua,'' an ebony-and-ivory staff said to have been given to him by Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, as a symbol of moral authority and black pride. That helped win him the support of the Rastafarian movement and other black nationalists initially suspicious of his cosmopolitan, mulatto background.
        As Prime Minister, Mr. Manley encouraged and subsidized Afro-Caribbean forms of cultural expression like reggae music, which became a global phenomenon during his tenure, persisting even when the lyrics of some songs criticized his policies. ''If anybody is going to protest against me, at least I want them to do so with style,'' he once said, with characteristic good humor.
        After more than 100 people were killed in outbreaks of gang and political violence in 1976, Mr. Manley, attributing the clashes to right-wing opponents, imposed a state of emergency. He won another resounding victory at the polls that year, but his second term was marked by increasing polarization and a sharp economic decline, which forced him to seek loans from his ideological adversaries at the International Monetary Fund.
        In 1980 he was decisively defeated by a conservative, Edward P. G. Seaga of the Jamaica Labor Party, after a campaign in which an estimated 700 people were killed. His party boycotted the election called in 1983, complaining that promised electoral reforms had not been carried out, and it was not represented in Parliament for the next six years. Mr. Manley spent much of that time working on behalf of the Socialist International.
        But he was returned to power early in 1989, after promising not to repeat the errors of his first period in office. He patched up his ties with the private sector and with the United States, saying at a news conference just after he was elected that ''to allow ourselves to slide into an unnecessary state of tension'' with Washington was a blunder ''that can never happen again.''
        ''I kept thinking that you could make the world economy submit to a system of political management to safeguard against injustice and inequity,'' Mr. Manley said in another interview that year, analyzing his earlier outlook. ''I didn't realize the forces of production are too powerful, and their inherent logic too irresistible, to be made subservient to political barriers on a permanent basis.''
        As a result of his change of heart, Mr. Manley largely pursued orthodox free-market economic policies during his second stint in office. He let the Jamaican dollar float, removed price controls and subsidies, sped up the privatization of state-owned enterprises and relaxed restrictions on foreign investment, all of which won him praise from the United States.
        ''He has set a great example, and I admire his stance,'' President George Bush said. Nevertheless, Mr. Manley continued to assert that he was a socialist, arguing that ''socialism is about equality'' and vowing never to give up his commitment to economic and racial justice.
        In 1992 he announced that he would step down for health reasons. He had undergone five operations for prostate cancer, diverticulitis and pneumonia, in which part of his lung and colon had been removed. In retirement he spent most of his time growing coffee and flowers on his farm outside Kingston or following sports, especially cricket, which he deeply loved.
        Mr. Manley, who began his career as a journalist, first with the BBC and The Observer in London and later with newspapers in Kingston, was also the author of seven books and many essays and articles. His books ranged from a collection of his speeches and political volumes like ''Poverty of the Nations: Reflections on Underdevelopment and the World Economy'' to ''A History of West Indies Cricket.''
        His body is to lie in state at the National Arena in Kingston next Friday and Saturday, the Government announced yesterday, and after a state funeral on March 16 will be buried at National Heroes' Park.
        Mr. Manley is survived by his fifth wife, Glynne Ewert, and five children: Rachel, Joseph, Sarah, Natasha and David.
      