
        Dr. William R. Maples, a leading forensic anthropologist who sought to identify the skeletal remains of prominent figures dating back as far as the 1500's and at times sought to ascertain the circumstances of mysterious deaths, died on Thursday at his home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 59.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Margaret Kelley Maples.
        As a pioneer in the relatively young field of forensic anthropology, Dr. Maples traveled the world to examine and identify skeletons, including those of President Zachary Taylor, Czar Nicholas II of Russia and his family, and the Spanish explorer Francisco Pizarro, who conquered the Incas in 1532.
        His unfulfilled ambition, his colleagues said, was to examine several skeletons in Europe that are said to be the remains of Christopher Columbus.
        A longtime professor at the University of Florida at Gainesville, Dr. Maples also worked as a consultant to governments and law-enforcement agencies, including the New York State Police and the United States Army's Central Identification Laboratory in Honolulu, which examines the remains of military personnel.
        Dr. Maples worked on several high profile cases, including the killing of the civil rights leader Medgar Evers. Mr. Evers's body was exhumed and re-examined to provide evidence leading to the 1994 conviction of a white supremacist, Byron De La Beckwith, nearly 31 years after the  slaying.
        ''He was really one of the few forensic anthropologists who could understand the needs of the justice system,'' said Dr. Lowell Levine, a forensic dentist who is director of the medical investigations unit of the New York State Police and who has worked with Dr. Maples. ''He could lead and conduct investigations where he would point to the crucial evidence to be shown at trial.''
        Perhaps his most famous project was the identification of Czar Nicholas II and other members of the Romanov family who were killed in 1918 by the Bolsheviks in the town of Yekaterinburg in the Urals. In 1992, Dr. Maples led a team of forensic specialists who confirmed that the remains in question were the Romanovs. That finding was later confirmed by DNA testing.
        The Romanovs were Dr. Maples's fourth important historical case. In 1984, he went to Lima, Peru, where he confirmed that remains found in two boxes in a crypt in the Cathedral of Lima, belonged to Pizarro.
        In 1988, he examined the remains of John Merrick, the 19th century elephant man, and in 1991 he participated in the examination of the remains of Zachary Taylor, the 12th President of the United States, who died on July 8, 1850. President Taylor's remains were tested for arsenic. Ultimately, the tests showed he died of gastroenteritis.
        William Ross Maples was born on Aug. 7, 1937, in Dallas. He graduated from the University of Texas, in Austin, completing a doctorate in 1967. He married in 1958 and in the early 1960's he and his wife moved to Kenya, where he conducted field research.
        According to his wife, Dr. Maples first became interested in the dead as young boy after a neighbor, who was a deputy sheriff, showed him autopsy pictures of Bonnie and Clyde Parker. His interest in anthropology developed in college after he was shut out of a biology course and took an anthropology course instead, his wife said.
        After returning from Africa, he taught for two years at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo before joining the anthropology department at the University of Florida at Gainesville as an assistant professor in 1968. In 1973, he joined the Florida Museum of Natural History, a division of the university and later founded the C. A. Pound Human Identification Laboratory. Three years ago, he was named distinguished service professor.
        Together with Michael Browning, a journalist, Dr. Maples wrote ''Dead Men Do Tell Tales'' (Doubleday, 1994). Each chapter discussed one of Dr. Maples's cases. He also served for a year as vice president of American Academy of Forensic Sciences.
        A brain tumor, diagnosed two years ago, prevented him from taking on one last case. ''One thing that we talked about a few times that we never got to do was to examine skeletal remains in a couple of tombs that were claimed to be Christopher Columbus,'' said Dr. Levine. ''There had been some arrangements being made for Maples to examine the remains to see who was the real Christopher Columbus.''
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Maples is survived by two daughters, Lisa L. Maples and Cynthia L. Myers, both of Panama City, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      