
        J. Carson Mark, who headed the theoretical division at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory when the hydrogen bomb was developed, died last Sunday in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 83 and lived in Los Alamos.
        The cause was complications related to a fall, said one of his daughters, Joan Mark Neary of Tesuque, N.M.
        Dr. Mark ''was really the center of Los Alamos'' because ''as the director of the theoretical division, the new inventions all went through him,'' Dr. Hans A. Bethe, one of the top Manhattan Project physicists working on the atomic bomb and later a consultant on development of the hydrogen bomb at Los Alamos, said in a phone interview.
        ''There was a lot of controversy in Los Alamos in those days,'' said Dr. Bethe, professor emeritus of physics at Cornell University, ''and Carson always was imperturbable and stood in the middle of it and had a balanced judgment.''
        ''In the hydrogen bomb in particular, the first invention that made it go was due to Stanislaw Ulam,'' Dr. Bethe said in explaining Dr. Mark's role. Because Dr. Ulam and Dr. Edward Teller were not on good terms, Dr. Mark sent Dr. Ulam to Dr. Norris E. Bradbury, the laboratory's chief administrator, who got the two men to discuss the Ulam idea for a two-part bomb, with X-rays from the primary explosion used to ignite the fuel of the secondary component.
        ''Teller then completed and extended the invention,'' Dr. Bethe said, ''so, in this case, Carson was the mediator between two people who really didn't like each other.''
        The fruit of that collaboration, which became known as the Teller-Ulam configuration, overcame the last major obstacle to producing a deliverable thermonuclear bomb.
        J. Carson Mark was born on July 6, 1913, in Lindsay, Ontario. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics from the University of Western Ontario in 1935 and a doctorate in mathematics from the University of Toronto in 1938.
        Dr. Mark taught mathematics at the University of Manitoba from 1938 until 1943, and spent two years at the Montreal laboratory of the National Research Council of Canada before coming to Los Alamos in May 1945 as part of a contingent of scientists from Britain collaborating on the Manhattan Project.
        In 1947, he became the head of the theoretical division of Los Alamos, which at the time was the nation's center for development of nuclear bombs and bomb-making ideas. He later became a United States citizen.
        He retired in 1973 but remained a consultant at Los Alamos for many years afterward. While at Los Alamos and after retirement, Dr. Mark sought to educate the public about the dangers of nuclear weapons, working with private, governmental and international organizations to prevent the spread of such weapons.
        He was a scientific adviser to the United States delegation at the Conference of Experts held in Geneva in 1958, a meeting of Western and Soviet bloc nations to explore methods for detecting and monitoring nuclear explosions conducted in violation of a possible treaty to suspend tests. He attended a follow-up conference in Geneva in the fall of 1959.
        He served on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards and was an adviser to the Air Force on nuclear issues. He was a member of the American Physical Society, the American Mathematical Society and many other professional affiliations.
        In addition to his daughter Joan, he is survived by his wife, Kathleen Mark; two other daughters, Elizabeth Mark Smith, of Davis, Calif., and Mary Mark, of Albuquerque, N.M.; three sons, Thomas, of Newport, Ore., and Graham and Christopher, of Los Alamos; a brother, James, of Dartmouth, Nova Scotia; a sister, Dorothy Woolley, of Toronto; 13 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      