
        Alfred Sheinwold of Los Angeles, one of the leading personalities in the world of bridge, died Saturday in Sherman Oaks Hospital, Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 85 and had suffered a series of strokes, said his wife, Paula Sheinwold.
        Mr. Sheinwold gave service to bridge in seven decades, primarily as a writer. For the last 30 years he wrote a daily syndicated column for The Los Angeles Times. He wrote 13 books, of which the most important was ''Five Weeks to Winning Bridge,'' which sold millions of copies.
        Mr. Sheinwold, who was inducted last year to the Bridge Hall of Fame, was known for making his columns on the game understandable even to the least experienced players.
        Mr. Sheinwold was born in England and came to Brooklyn at age 9. After graduating from City College in 1933, he worked as a writer for Ely Culbertson, then the leading authority on bridge. He was an editor of The Bridge World magazine from 1934 to 1963. Jointly with Edgar Kaplan, he created one of the world's most significant bridge systems, Kaplan-Sheinwold.
        Mr. Sheinwold, who was known as Freddy, won two national titles, the Board-a-Match Teams in 1958 and the Men's Teams in 1964, and was second on two other occasions. He was nonplaying captain of the United States team that won the world championship the Bermuda Bowl, in Sao Paulo, Brazil, in 1985.
        Ten years earlier, when captaining the American team in Bermuda, he was a central figure in a major controversy. Two Italian players were accused of using illegal signals.  When they received a reprimand but were permitted to continue playing, Mr. Sheinwold indignantly proposed to withdraw his team from the championship. His decision was overruled by other American officials.
        Mr. Sheinwold was also an authority on backgammon, and he directed tournaments in Las Vegas.
        In World War II, Mr. Sheinwold served in the Office of Strategic Services as an expert in codes and ciphers.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Sheinwold is survived by a brother, Irving Woods of Flushing, Queens, and two sisters, Ethel Sheinwold and Nancy Propp, both of Miami.
      