
        Ernest Charles Pollard, a pioneer in the field of biophysics, died on Feb. 24 at a hospital in Jupiter, Fla. A former resident of State College, Pa., he was 90 and lived in retirement on the Isle of Wight, England.
        He suffered a stroke while vacationing in Florida, said a friend, Prof. Stanley Person, a physicist at Johns Hopkins University.
        Dr. Pollard's research encompassed nuclear physics, radar development in World War II and, most significantly, the physics of living cells. His work in biophysics focused on the effects of radiation on cells and viruses, which he studied using a cyclotron, and the repair of damage caused by radiation.
        Much of his work was done at Yale University, where he designed the university's first atom-smashing cyclotron, in 1939. He worked on microwave radar during World War II, making contributions that drew from President Harry S. Truman a Citation of Merit, one of the highest civilian awards given by a President.
        From 1950 to 1961, he was a professor of biophysics and an early proponent of the use of atom-splitting techniques to learn the mechanics of bacteria and viruses.
        With a grant from the John A. Hartford Foundation, Yale established a research laboratory in 1955, enabling it to carve a department of biophysics from the physics department. Dr. Pollard was its founding chairman, a position he held until 1961. In 1957, he and three other scientists founded the Biophysical Society, now based in Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. Pollard joined the faculty of Pennsylvania State University in 1960 and served as chairman of the biophysics department until his retirement in 1971. By then he had trained more than 50 doctoral candidates at Yale and Penn State, and he continued until 1988 as a research scholar at the University of Florida, Duke University and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in North Carolina.
        He wrote about 200 scientific papers on nuclear physics and radiation biophysics. Dr. Pollard also wrote, or co-wrote, textbooks on microwave radiation, molecular biophysics and the physics of viruses, as well as physics for nonscientists.
        Ernest Pollard was born in China to English missionary parents. He graduated in 1928 from Cambridge University, where he received a doctorate in nuclear physics in 1932. He joined the Yale faculty the next year.
        He was among the scientists who made the first determinations of the radius of a nucleus.
        As an officer of the Federation of American Scientists, he headed its Committee on Loyalty and Security in the 1950's. He and the panel were highly critical of the Eisenhower Administration's unbending security policies and the castigation of scientists by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee of Investigations under Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. In particular, Dr. Pollard defended the head of the atomic bomb project, Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer, from McCarthy's attacks.
        During John F. Kennedy's 1960 Presidential campaign, Dr. Pollard served as chairman of a national Democratic advisory committee on science and technology.
        His first wife, Elizabeth Watson Pollard, died in 1986 after 53 years of marriage.
        He is survived by his wife, Freda Pollard; a daughter and a son from his earlier marriage, Carol Pollard White of State College and Stephen Pollard of Tequesta, Fla.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      