
        Oscar Lewenstein, a theater and film producer who was a central figure at the Royal Court Theater in London from the early 50's until the mid-70's, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Brighton. He was 80.
        Mr. Lewenstein worked with some of the most innovative figures in British theater and film, notably George Devine, Tony Richardson, John Osborne, Joan Littlewood and Lindsay Anderson. Although his primary allegiance was to the theater, he also helped produce some of the most important British films of the 50's and 60's, including ''The Entertainer,'' ''Saturday Night and Sunday Morning,'' ''A Taste of Honey'' and ''Tom Jones.''
        Mr. Lewenstein was born in Hackney, the son of Jewish emigres who fled Russia. He grew up in the seaside town of Hove, but returned to London at 14 when the family plywood and plastics business failed.
        A committed Marxist from an early age, he found work at the Workers' Bookshop after leaving school. He joined the army in 1940 and was assigned to work on the home front, teaching illiterate recruits how to read and write. In his 1994 autobiography, ''Kicking Against the Pricks,'' he wrote that his wartime experience convinced him that he had a talent for organizing and managing.
        After the war Mr. Lewenstein became general manager of the Unity Theater, a left-wing theater club. In 1952 he was hired as general manager of the Royal Court, which had languished since the days when it presented the work of Ibsen and Shaw. In 1956, envisioning a writers' theater run on repertory lines, he formed the English Stage Company at the Royal Court with Ronald Duncan and Devine. Their third production was Osborne's ''Look Back in Anger,'' a turning point in British theater that heralded the rise of a new generation of British playwrights.
        Under the artistic direction of Devine and Richardson, the Royal Court became a byword for provocative, serious theater. During Mr. Lewenstein's tenure, its critical and commercial successes included ''Billy Liar,'' ''Loot,'' ''What the Butler Saw'' and ''Expresso Bongo.''
        Mr. Lewenstein held numerous posts at the theater, including artistic director from 1972 to 1975. He co-produced many of its shows and oversaw the transfer of its productions to the West End. A notable example was ''Entertaining Mr. Sloane'' with Malcolm McDowell, part of an entire season that the Royal Court devoted to the work of Joe Orton.
        Outside the Royal Court, he persuaded Bertolt Brecht to allow Joan Littlewood to present ''Mother Courage'' at Stratford East and the Devon Festival. It was the first production of Brecht in Britain. He also brought Brecht to the West End, producing ''The Threepenny Opera,'' with Peter O'Toole, and ''Saint Joan of the Stockyards,'' directed by Richardson.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Lewenstein's association with Richardson, Anderson and Peter Brook led him to produce several of the gritty, working-class films that introduced actors like Albert Finney and Tom Courtenay to a world audience. His most recent film was ''Rita, Sue and Bob Too'' (1987).
        He is survived by his second wife, Eileen, and two sons. His first marriage ended in divorce.
      