
        Hugo Weisgall, a composer distinguished primarily by his contributions to opera since World War II, died yesterday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after a fall on Friday. He was 84 and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
        Mr. Weisgall's musical personality was robust and resilient, and needed to be. His adherence to a vigorous dissonant style caused him to be regarded as too modern in the 1950's and not modern enough -- or rather, not post-modern enough -- in the 1980's and 90's. He did not seem to mind. He kept to his own path, proving the powers of an atonal language to deal with a wide variety of dramatic situations.
        His range is demonstrated by the fact that he was able to make an operatic adaptation of Pirandello's mercurial play ''Six Characters in Search of an Author.'' His version, first presented by the New York City Opera in 1959, is one of the works by which he will be chiefly remembered.
        He will also be remembered by his many pupils. In the 1950's he taught at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, where in 1940 he had earned a doctorate for a study of 17th-century German poetry. (Words remained vital to him, and he composed very little purely instrumental music.) From 1957 onward he was based in New York City, teaching at the Juilliard School, at Queens College and at the Cantors' Institute of the Jewish Theological Seminary.
        Other sides to his activity included conducting and administration: he was president of the American Music Center from 1963 to 1973. He was composer in residence at the American Academy in Rome in 1966 and was president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. Three Guggenheim fellowships were among his many awards.
        Mr. Weisgall was born in Ivancice, in Bohemia, on Oct. 13, 1912, and came to the United States with his parents in 1920; the family settled in Baltimore. His father was a cantor who had sung in opera. Formal instruction came at the Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore (1927-32), intermittently with Roger Sessions in the 1930's, and at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. Contact with Sessions, at a time when he was exploring how the lessons of Schoenberg could be adapted to an American situation, was crucial.
        The effect, though, was delayed, partly by the Neo-Classicism Mr. Weisgall had already espoused, and partly by the war. The young composer entered military service in 1941, and in 1943 became the first American serviceman (perhaps also the last) to conduct in uniform at the London Proms; the work Sergeant Weisgall led was his own Overture in F. He later conducted concerts of American music in several European cities, while working for his country in diplomatic capacities for which his fluency in German and Czech made him useful. In 1946-47 he was cultural attache in Prague, and described his function there as to prove to Czechs that America produced more than ''Frigidaires and automobiles,'' adding, ''It's not an easy job.''
        He put his Army experience to creative use in ''Soldier Songs'' for baritone and orchestra (1944-46), after which came other song cycles. But it was his next major work, the one-act opera ''The Tenor'' (1948-50), that defined the way he was to go. It was followed by another one-acter, ''The Stronger'' (1952), a 25-minute monodrama for coloratura soprano. Drawing on plays by Wedekind and Strindberg respectively, these operas displayed his ability to portray powerful psychological drama and perhaps provided him with the confidence to embark on his first full-length opera, ''Six Characters.''
        Then came a setting of W. B. Yeats's play ''Purgatory,'' for which he developed a consistently 12-note style. In the 1960's he produced two more full-scale operas: ''Athaliah'' (after Racine) and ''Nine Rivers from Jordan,'' the latter introduced by City Opera in 1968.
        His third work for the company was ''Esther,'' which had its first performance during City Opera's jubilee season in 1993 and will be revived on Oct. 12, one day before what would have been his 85th birthday. He also wrote several more one-act pieces.
        Before the premiere of ''Athaliah,'' in 1964, he wrote an article for The New York Times that concluded with his artistic credo. Tough music, he felt, could be more acceptable in the theater: ''I think that opera audiences today can be persuaded to accept any and all musical styles, as long as the work in question is theatrically viable. The stylistic range of the viable extends from Monteverdi to Schoenberg and beyond. I trust the end is not in sight.''
        Mr. Weisgall is survived by his wife, Nathalie; a daughter, Deborah; a son, Jonathan, and four grandchildren.
      