
        Leon Danielian, an American ballet dancer known during the 1940's and 50's for his remarkable bravura and flair, died on Saturday at the Geer Nursing Home in Canaan, Conn. He was 75.
        The cause was heart failure, said Hercelia McDonald, his sister.
        ''The boy can dance like a house afire,'' John Martin, the dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1943. Other critics and audiences kept echoing that opinion, applauding Mr. Danielian for a repertory that included everything from purely classical roles to comic and character parts.
        He showed off his virtuosity in traditional showpieces like the Bluebird pas de deux from ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' was a nimble Harlequin in Michel Fokine's ''Carnaval'' and displayed his great comic gifts as the bumbling Peruvian tourist in Leonide Massine's ''Gaite Parisienne.''
        After arthritis forced him to stop dancing in the early 1960's, Mr. Danielian embarked upon a career as a teacher, serving as director of the American Ballet Theater School from 1967 to 1980 and a professor of dance at the University of Texas at Austin from 1982 to 1991. In 1993 the university named a studio in his honor.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Danielian studied with Fokine and Mikhail Mordkin and made his debut with the Mordkin Ballet in 1937. When that troupe formed the nucleus for Ballet Theater in 1940, Mr. Danielian became a charter member of the new company. He joined Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes in 1942, but soon left to become a principal dancer with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, the group with which he achieved his greatest fame.
        Between 1943 and 1961, he danced leading roles in ballets by such choreographers as Massine, George Balanchine and Bronislava Nijinska. He partnered distinguished European ballerinas including Alexandra Danilova and Yvette Chauvire and was especially known as the partner of Ruthanna Boris, an American ballerina.
        He choreographed three comic ballets for the Ballet Russe: ''Sombreros'' (1956), ''The Mazurka'' (1957) and ''Espana'' (1961). He also appeared as a guest artist with Les Ballets des Champs-Elysees in Paris and the San Francisco Ballet.
        In addition to being an intelligent dancer, Mr. Danielian prized learning and, although he never graduated from high school, was well versed in art, theater and dance history. The breadth of his knowledge helped make him effective in a university setting. Yet he was never stuffily academic, and his conversation could be as witty as his dancing.  Although he suffered from the effects of a hip replacement, a heart operation and a stroke in his later years, he continued teaching until his retirement in 1991.
        Mr. Danielian received awards from the Dance Masters of America and the Dance Educators of America and was named the best male dancer of the 1948-49 season by Dance magazine.
        He is survived by his sister, of Austin, Tex.
      