
        Wesley Addy, an actor who was well versed in classics from Shakespeare to Shaw and who frequently appeared in roles opposite his wife, Celeste Holm, died on Tuesday at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        Onstage, Mr. Addy often communicated an air of carefully cultivated distinction. Though he was born in Omaha, he could easily assume the manners of an English gentleman.
        He majored in economics at the University of California in Los Angeles and acted in summer theater on Martha's Vineyard. In 1935, he made his first stage appearance in New York City with Orson Welles in Archibald MacLeish's ''Panic.'' The following year, he doubled as Marcellus and Fortinbras in Leslie Howard's production of ''Hamlet.'' He then joined Maurice Evans's repertory company and played Bernardo in an uncut ''Hamlet,'' Hotspur in ''Henry IV, Part 1'' and Orsino to Helen Hayes's Viola in ''Twelfth Night.'' He also played Benvolio in ''Romeo and Juliet'' with Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh.
        After serving in the United States Army during World War II, he returned to acting, appearing with Katharine Cornell in ''Antigone'' and ''Candida,'' in which Mr. Addy played Morell and Marlon Brando was Marchbanks. Through the 1940's and 50's, he was frequently on Broadway. He played leading roles in Jed Harris's production of ''The Traitor,'' by Herman Wouk, Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest,''  Louis Calhern's ''King Lear'' (Mr. Addy was Edgar) and Ruth Gordon's ''Leading Lady.''
        Equally at home in comedy and drama, Mr. Addy shared the stage with Miss Holm in Arthur Laurents's ''Invitation to a March'' and Turgenev's ''Month in the Country,'' which the two of them did off Broadway for David Ross in 1963. They toured together in the national company of ''Mame,'' and in 1970 in a Broadway revival of ''Candida,'' Mr. Addy once again was Morell, with Miss Holm playing the title role. They also acted in ''With Love and Laughter,'' a collage of poetry, prose and dialogue.
        His films included ''The First Legion'' (with Charles Boyer), ''The Big Knife,'' ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane,'' ''Hush . . . Hush, Sweet Charlotte,'' ''Seconds,'' ''Tora Tora Tora'' and ''Before and After'' (with Meryl Streep and Liam Neeson). On television, he played a doctor on both ''The Edge of Night'' and ''Days of Our Lives.''
        He is survived by his wife.
      