
        Marcy Chanin, a New York real estate executive and philanthropist who supported higher education, medicine and a number of Jewish organizations, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Chanin, who was 86, lived in Manhattan and had a winter home in Palm Beach.
        Mr. Chanin, who belonged to a family prominent in New York real estate, was a member of the national executive committee of the American Jewish Congress. He and his family were also strong supporters of Yeshiva University, Hunter College and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa.
        He was the son of Irwin S. Chanin, the architect and builder who constructed the Art Deco towers of the Majestic and Century apartments on Central Park West and who gave his name to the School of Architecture at Cooper Union. Irwin Chanin also built the Chanin Building, once mid-Manhattan's tallest, at 42d Street and Lexington Avenue, and elegant Broadway theaters.
        Marcy Chanin was the executive vice president of Chanin Management and the Chanin Construction Company when his father died in 1988. He succeeded his father as president, but retired himself a few years ago.
        Mr. Chanin also had a career as a lawyer specializing in real estate, but he worked mostly in the family business, seeing to its many properties. Among his own developments was the Green Acres shopping mall in Valley Stream, L.I.
        He and his brother, Paul, endowed the Genetic Engineering Building at the Technion. He helped create an innovative psychiatric service and home-care support program at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and, with his wife, made possible the Leona and Marcy Chanin Language Center at Hunter College, now under construction.
        He was a founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University and a longtime supporter of the UJA-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies in New York.
        He was educated at Lehigh University and the law school of St. Lawrence University in Canton, N.Y. In World War II, he was an Army lieutenant colonel in Europe.
        In addition to his brother, Paul, now of Aspen, Colo., he is survived by his wife of 56 years, Leona Feifer Chanin; a son, James, of Oakland, Calif.; two daughters, Ann Glazer of Los Angeles and Nancy Sneider of Boca Raton, Fla.; a sister, Joan Schwartz of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      