
        Chuck Green, one of the last of the great tap dance stars from the 1930's and 40's, died on March 7 at the Oakridge Care Center in Oakland, Calif., after a long illness. He was 78 and lived in Oakland.
        Mr. Green played an important role in American tap history. He  learned his art from the famous team of Buck and Bubbles and performed with his partner, James (Chuckles) Walker, in an act known as ''Chuck and Chuckles.'' Mr. Green danced alone after the act broke up in 1944, tapping most often to the Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn classic ''Take the A Train.'' He performed with the Original Hoofers and other tap revival shows and was a replacement soloist in the Broadway show ''Black and Blue.''
        When not onstage, he could often be found in the audience at tap shows, where he was introduced as an honored guest. He stood out, both literally and figuratively. A very tall, gentle-looking man with a dreamy smile that some attributed to his bouts of mental illness, Mr. Green had a big, shambling frame, large feet and a deceptive look of stiffness. Despite his size and seeming clumsiness, he danced like a lurching breeze, with extraordinary lightness, elegance and serenity.
        ''Effects have been stripped from Green's dancing, leaving a style that's deliberate and lithe, more musical and discursive than acrobatic,'' Guy Trebay wrote in a 1986 article in The Village Voice. ''His relationship with melody is amatory. He leans on a line or dawdles with it, steps out on it, or lets the rhythm crowd his heels. Like the best percussionists, he has an idiosyncratic way with time, and over the course of six decades, more than one jazz drummer has studied at his feet.''
        Mr. Green was born just outside Atlanta. He became interested in dance as a child, he said, when his father told him his too-tight shoes gave him the look of a dancer. He  made his stage debut at 6 in an amateur show. The clapping continued so long after he finished his song he was brought out again and told by the master of ceremonies to ''keep that smile on your face and dance,'' even though he was barefoot.
        After winning third prize, the boy was signed to a contract to tour through the South. Homesick, he ran away after two years and walked from Augusta to Atlanta, only to find his mother had died. For the next two years, he danced for small change on the sidewalks of Atlanta, achieving the sound of taps with Coca-Cola bottle tops stuck to his bare feet with tar. At age 9, he was brought by an agent to New York City and installed in a dance studio on West 46th Street, where he found himself teaching what he knew of tap to the movie star Eleanor Powell, who had seen and admired the youngster as he worked in the studio.
        He and Mr. Walker began to dance together when an agent for Buck and Bubbles decided he wanted a juvenile version of that star song-and-dance act. John Bubbles, who formed the act with Ford Lee Washington, later became Mr. Green's primary mentor. The young dancers were told to study the act's moves from every part of the theater. They also learned blackface vaudeville routines, putting together a show-stopping act of their own.
        Mr. Green performed as a soloist from the mid-1940's into the 90's, supplementing meager earnings during a long period of scant employment for tap dancers by teaching in neighborhood studios on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. In the early 1980's, he was on the dance faculty of George Washington University.
        Mr. Green became the central figure in the tap revival of the 1960's in New York City when he danced in a group called the Original Hoofers, whose title alluded to the legendary Hoofers Club in Harlem, and another group of veteran tappers called the Copasetics. He starred in a popular Off Broadway show put together by Leticia Jay, also a dancer, called ''Tap Happening.''
        In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Green was featured in Mura Dehn's Traditional Jazz Dance Company, the Newport Jazz Festival and in two shows at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, ''Steps in Time'' and ''Tappin' Uptown.'' Writing of Mr. Green's work in the first Brooklyn show, Anna Kisselgoff, dance critic of The New York Times, described him as a genius and ''an artist on another wavelength.''
        Mr. Green appeared in several films about tap dancing. He was one of three tap greats -- the others were Bunny Briggs and Sandman Sims -- around whom George T. Nierenberg built his classic 1979 documentary, ''No Maps on My Taps,'' a title based on Mr. Green's comment that he could dance anywhere in the world.
      