
        Kevin M. Murphy, a 39-year-old professor of business economics at the University of Chicago, has been chosen as the winner of the John Bates Clark Medal from the American Economic Association, economists on the awards panel said yesterday.
        Though the Clark Medal, awarded every other year to an outstanding American economist under age 40, is little known to the public, it carries as much prestige among American economists as the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science.
        Mr. Murphy, according to the citation prepared by the awards committee, is being honored for his ''extraordinarily original'' study of ''wages, wage inequality and the relationship between wages and labor force participation.''
        Dale W. Jorgenson, an economist at Harvard and a member of the seven-member committee that selected the winner, said that Mr. Murphy's work was central to the way economists now think about the causes of widening inequality. ''Kevin Murphy is the father, son and holy ghost of income distribution,'' he exclaimed.
        The John Bates Clark Medal was created in 1947 and named for a specialist in capital theory at Columbia University in the late 19th century who was the first American economist to gain an international reputation. A second award, for ''lifetime achievement,'' was abandoned after the Nobel award was created in 1969, leaving the Clark Medal as the single prize awarded by the association.
        Paul A. Samuelson, the Harvard professor who pioneered Keynesian economics in the United States and wrote the textbook relied upon by generations of college students, was the first winner as well as the youngest. Since then, the list of recipients has read like a who's who of economics. Five of the next six winners -- Milton Friedman, James Tobin, Kenneth Arrow and Robert M. Solow -- later went on to win Nobel awards.
        Martin S. Feldstein, who won in 1977, and Joseph E. Stiglitz (1979) served as chairmen of the White House Council of Economic Advisers. Lawrence H. Summers (1993) is now the Under Secretary of the Treasury. And the others, from Gary S. Becker of the University of Chicago (1967) to Paul R. Krugman of M.I.T. (1991), are academic giants.
        ''It's a window on where the profession is at,'' said Orley Ashenfelter, a Princeton economist who edits the American Economic Review, the profession's top journal.
        This year's winner -- not to be confused with another distinguished economist, Kevin J. Murphy at the University of Southern California -- graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles. He earned a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, known for its distinctive brand of conservative, staunchly free market economics. Once in Hyde Park, Mr. Murphy never left.
        Like most ambitious academic economists, Mr. Murphy sports a list of publications so long that one has to wonder when he found time to see ''Star Wars.'' But the work for which he is being honored is found in 18  articles on the causes of growing income inequality in America.
        This is a well-trod subject. What distinguishes Mr. Murphy's contribution is his careful collection of data, mastery of statistical methods and disarmingly straightforward use of basic economics. ''A lot of what we've seen in the past two decades comes right out of Econ. 101,'' he said in a telephone interview.
        From the rubble of conflicting analyses, Mr. Murphy has clearly identified the growth in demand for skilled labor -- as opposed to the rise in supply or decline in demand for unskilled labor -- as the principal cause of the widening gap in wages between blue-  and white-collar workers. His work also suggests that the market for skills is functioning the way it is supposed to: Americans have responded by staying in school longer, a trend that should eventually narrow the gap or at least prevent it from widening much further.
        Mr. Murphy is now training his sights on the underlying causes,  which surely include both technological change and globalization of the labor market. ''We've identified the suspects, but don't have anyone in custody,'' he reports.
        Unlike the Nobel, the Clark Medal does not come with a fat check, or any check at all. Mr. Murphy says he is thrilled to be its 25th recipient. ''But like any good economist,'' he jokes, ''I'd rather have the money.''
      