
        Dr. Dwight Locke Wilbur, a prominent San Francisco gastroenterologist and past president of the American Medical Association, who helped overcome the organization's aversion to Medicare as ''socialized medicine,'' died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93.
        In the 1960's, when Dr. Wilbur rose to leadership in the A.M.A., his profession, like the rest of the nation, was deeply divided over crucial issues. Medical insurance for the country's elderly was one of them, and he was considered a moderate in the A.M.A.'s determined struggle against Government encroachment  in medical care.
        Medicare, the basic Federal health insurance program for everyone over 65, was enacted in Social Security amendments in 1965 in the Johnson Administration. The A.M.A., supported by private insurers and hospitals, pursued its own alternative, called Eldercare, as a comprehensive plan for the elderly needy.
        Upon his inauguration as president of the A.M.A. in June 1968 for a one-year term, Dr. Wilbur broke with his predecessor, Dr. Milford O. Rouse of Dallas, and endorsed the notion that adequate health care was a right of all citizens. Although he personally favored the private approach wherever possible, he had resigned himself to the Social Security-based program as a new fact of life, and the organization reluctantly went along.
        Dr. Wilbur is the only son of a former A.M.A. president to attain the organization's highest office. His father, Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, who was president in 1923-24, also served as president of Stanford University and as Secretary of the Interior in the Hoover Administration.
        Dwight Wilbur was born in Harrow-on-the-Hill, England, while his father was studying medicine there.  From boyhood, he said, he could not conceive of anything but following his father's footsteps into medicine.
        Like his father, he was an outdoorsman and rugged individualist. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford in 1923 and received his M.D. at the University of Pennsylvania in 1926.
        He held teaching positions at the Stanford School of Medicine throughout his career of more than 50 years, rising to clinical professor in 1949, and retired from private practice in 1983. He founded both the San Francisco and the California Societies of Internal Medicine.
        He held office in various other professional organizations and served in clinical and teaching assignments in and beyond California. He wrote more than 200 papers and articles on conditions affecting the kidneys, the gastrointestinal tract and nutrition, as well as on general health.
        As for retirement at age 65, Dr. Wilbur considered it ''biologically unsound'' and advised careful planning and a new activity to stay ''young in spirit.'' A person shows signs of an aging mind, he once observed, when he reads the obituary page before the sports section, studies the menu before looking at the waitress, and mopes at a party ''because he thinks of how he is going to feel in the morning.''
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; two sons, Jordan R., of Mill Valley, Calif., and Gregory F., of Menlo Park, Calif.; a sister, Lois W. Hopper, of Palo Alto, Calif., and seven grandchildren. A son, Dwight L. 3d, also a gastroenterologist, died last fall.
      