
        Fred Zinnemann, the director who grappled with issues of moral courage in such Academy Award-winning films as ''From Here to Eternity'' in 1953 and ''A Man for All Seasons'' in 1966, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 89.
        Mr. Zinnemann also filmed ''The Search,'' a poignant 1948 account of the plight of Europe's war orphans; ''The Men,'' Carl Foreman's compassionate 1950 study of paraplegic veterans, and Foreman's suspenseful western ''High Noon,'' which won the 1952 best-director and best-movie awards from the New York critics.
        ''From Here to Eternity,'' Dalton Trumbo's forceful adaptation of James Jones's novel about the prewar Army, won eight Oscars and earned Mr. Zinnemann best-director awards from both the New York Film Critics and the Screen Directors Guild.
        ''A Man for All Seasons,'' Robert Bolt's drama about Sir Thomas More's steadfast defiance of Henry VIII, won six Academy Awards and the best-director and best-movie awards from the New York critics.
        At the core of Mr. Zinnemann's finest films lay a crisis of moral courage that challenged a character to face his conscience and test his integrity.
        ''A director,'' he told an interviewer, ''should never compromise on important things. He must be determined to retain his ideas. This can require real stubbornness, but without it you can lose everything.''
        ''High Noon,'' with Gary Cooper as a sheriff, stands as one of Mr. Zinnemann's classic dramas of a hero functioning alone, doing what he knows he must do. All the action takes place in 90 minutes, the actual running time of the film, and is punctuated by Tex Ritter's memorable voice-over singing of ''Do Not Forsake Me, O My Darling.''
        Other personifications of heroes in tests of moral courage were Spencer Tracy as an anti-Nazi fugitive in ''The Seventh Cross'' (1944); Montgomery Clift as an avuncular G.I. in ''The Search''; Clift and Frank Sinatra as rebellious G.I.'s in ''From Here to Eternity'' and Paul Scofield in ''A Man for All Seasons.''
        In 1955, Mr. Zinnemann brought to the screen Rodgers and Hammerstein's landmark musical ''Oklahoma!,'' which successfully introduced Michael Todd's wide-screen process, Todd-AO.
        Other Zinnemann films were ''A Hatful of Rain,'' a harrowing 1957 study of drug addiction; ''The Nun's Story,'' a 1959 account of an ethically tormented woman that earned the best-director award from the New York critics, and ''Julia,'' a 1977 tale of a brave anti-Fascist that won Vanessa Redgrave and Jason Robards supporting-actor Oscars.
        Zinnemann movies also included ''Act of Violence'' (1949), ''The Sundowners'' (1960) and the popular thriller ''Day of the Jackal'' (1973).
        Some reviewers were critical of later Zinnemann films, saying they were at times too emotionally remote, decorous and humorless. But he was universally considered a dedicated, honest and meticulous craftsman who fought hard to maintain high standards and who enriched the screen with several major humanistic movies.
        The director, who also produced several of his later films, was a wiry, fine-featured man who radiated intelligence. He had a slight Viennese accent and a quiet voice that belied deep determination and an almost fanatic zeal.
        Despite his inner steeliness, he had uncommon patience with young performers, who repeatedly praised his understanding and rapport. He directed Grace Kelly in her first leading role in ''High Noon'' and oversaw the screen debuts of Montgomery Clift in ''The Search,'' Marlon Brando in ''The Men,'' Rod Steiger in ''Teresa,'' Julie Harris and Brandon de Wilde in ''The Member of the Wedding'' and Shirley Jones in ''Oklahoma!''
        Mr. Zinnemann aided the careers of many actors. In ''From Here to Eternity,'' he rescued Deborah Kerr from roles of a stereotyped gentility and helped Frank Sinatra and Donna Reed earn supporting-actor Oscars. Audrey Hepburn's performance in ''The Nun's Story'' was considered by reviewers her most profound characterization.
        Authenticity was important to Mr. Zinnemann, and he invariably shot his films on location, with sites ranging from Europe to Hawaii and from the Belgian Congo to Australia.
        ''The story,'' he said, ''must have reality and identify with life, or with life as people believe it to be; the performers must be as good as the story, and the director must be like a general, giving the impression he has everything in hand, particularly in a crisis.''
        Mr. Zinnemann, whose father was a doctor, was born in Vienna on April 29, 1907. As a child, he studied the violin but abandoned it because he believed he lacked talent. He began studying law at the University of Vienna, but when he was 18 he saw two silent films, Erich von Stroheim's ''Greed'' and King Vidor's ''Big Parade,'' and knew he must make movies.
        He studied film making in Paris and was an assistant cameraman for several silent movies in Berlin. After Hollywood revolutionized the industry with sound, he moved there in 1929 to learn the new technique. He worked as an extra, script clerk, cutter and assistant director.
        His first significant directorial assignment was ''The Wave,'' a semi- documentary made in Mexico in 1934. From 1937 to 1947 he was at MGM, directing shorts, including an Oscar-winner, ''That Mothers Might Live,'' and lower-budget features. ''The Search'' made him an important director in 1948, and three years later he took on a short documentary, ''Benjy,'' which also won an Oscar.
        He maintained his interest in music, dividing his leisure between violin playing and mountain climbing, and he was fluent in four languages. In 1936, he married Renee Bartlett, who was born in Britain, where, beginning in 1963, they maintained their main home. Their son, Tim, also became a film director and producer.
        Fred Zinnemann was highly selective in agreeing to make a movie and after 1960 made only a few. He preferred to lose a movie rather than make it as somebody else wished, saying in 1982, ''Regardless of success or failure, one must try to tell the truth as one sees it.''
        His last film, in 1983, was ''Five Days One Summer,'' a drama set against a background of mountain climbing.
        In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Zinnemann is survived by four grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 19, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary of the director Fred Zinnemann on Saturday misidentified the author of the screenplay for the 1953 film ''From Here to Eternity.'' He was Daniel Taradash, not Dalton Trumbo.
      