
        Dr. Richard Henry Logsdon, a retired educator and librarian at Columbia University and the City University of New York, died Feb. 22 at a nursing home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 84 and had homes in South Egremont, Mass., and Manhattan. The family said he had suffered a brief illness.
        Dr. Logsdon spent 25 years at Columbia, home of one of the nation's largest research library systems. He arrived as an assistant director of Columbia University Libraries in 1947, was promoted to associate director the next year and was director of libraries from 1953 to 1969.
        In 1969, he left to become dean of university libraries for CUNY. He retired in 1974 as professor of library science at Queens College.
        While at Columbia, he carried on the negotiations for the acquisition of important collections, including a correspondence that Gouverneur Morris, a member of the Continental Congress, carried on with other founders of the Republic and a trove of memorabilia of Franklin D. Roosevelt, including the first printed copy of the war message he delivered to Congress on the day after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
        In what may have set some kind of a record, Dr. Logsdon ceremoniously recovered a tome missing since 1772, when the librarian then, Robert Harpur, took it home overnight. The book, on philosophy, was donated to the college by a clergyman in 1772. After an absence of 178 years, it turned up in an attic in Binghampton, N.Y., in 1950. Overdue charges would have come to $3,280, Dr. Logsdon figured, not counting the interest.
        Dr. Logsdon, a native of Upper Sandusky, Ohio, graduated in 1933 from Case Western Reserve University, from which he also received a master's. In 1942, he received a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago.
        His wife, Irene K. Dodgson, died in 1986. He is survived by three daughters, Mary Jo Nichols of Great Barrington, Elizabeth I. Promen of Alexandria, Va., and Rachel A. Ingalls of Stamford, Conn.; a son, John R., of Demarest, N.J.; two brothers, Maurice, of Upper Sandusky, and Robert, of Louisville, Ky.; a sister, Helen Vogel of Upper Sandusky, 15 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      