
        Claude R. Sowle, the legal educator who served as president of Ohio University in Athens when the school became a focal point of student protests against the Vietnam War, died on March 2 in San Juan, P.R. He was 68 and lived in Miami.
        Mr. Sowle had been on his way to inspect a school for the Accreditation Committee of the American Bar Association and suffered a heart attack, said John Gaubatz, a colleague at the University of Miami School of Law. Dr. Sowle taught there until he retired in June.
        Dr. Sowle's years as president of Ohio University, from 1969 to 1974,  were stormy and controversial.
        In 1970, skirmishes involving tear gas and rock throwing erupted between the police and students at Ohio University, after shootings at Kent State University left four students dead. Dr. Sowle closed his 17,000-student university, forcing an early end to the school year.
        Dr. Sowle said the disturbances had been led by a small and unrepresentative group of ''hard-core radicals,'' but others asserted that he had inflamed the situation by suspending seven protest leaders.
        The Faculty Senate recommended that the suspensions be lifted, but Dr. Sowle responded that the seven were ''a clear and present danger to the university.''
        When students clashed with the police again in 1974, this time over grievances by supporters of the Student Workers Union and the Center for Afro-American Studies, Dr. Sowle resigned, issuing a three-sentence statement citing ''the mindless, destructive events of the past week'' and contending that students had ''forgotten the lessons of 1970.''
        Born in Springfield, Ill., Dr. Sowle earned a bachelor's degree at Northwestern University, then served in the Navy before returning to Northwestern to earn his law degree.
        Dr. Sowle later served on the law faculties of Northwestern, the University of Cincinnati and Ohio State University as well as the University of Miami, where he taught criminal law and torts to generations of law students.
        Professor Sowle is survived by his wife, Kathryn, of Miami; a daughter, Leslie, of Chicago, and a son, Stephen, of Evanston, Ill.
      