
        Joseph Harold Haynes, a supervising subway engineer whose curiosity and keen eye helped him find the remnants of a 19th-century black settlement hidden in a Brooklyn alley, died on March 2 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 66 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
        The cause was cancer, said Joan Maynard, executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History, of which Mr. Haynes was a charter member.
        Mr. Haynes, a mechanical engineer by trade and licensed pilot by passion, was exploring the rural past of his home borough in 1968 when he spotted the four wood-frame cottages that are thought to be all that remains of what had been Weeksville. In the 1800's, it was one of the largest and earliest settlements of free black people in the North.
        By the turn of the century, it was fading from memory, overwhelmed by urban growth and, later, by decay and housing projects. In the 1960's, as black residents of Brooklyn looked for links with their past, Mr. Haynes went looking in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where he had grown up.  He teamed with Jim Hurley, a historian and friend, poring over old maps in search of Colonial Hunterfly Road and Weeksville. In a two-seat plane with Mr. Hurley in 1968, Mr. Haynes spotted the ramshackle Weeksville houses in a lane that time had forgotten, off Bergen Street.
        Black architects took on the restoration, and Mr. Haynes paid for  plumbing repairs with his credit card. He helped found the Weeksville Society and its museum. Now, the four Weeksville houses are on the National Register of Historic Places.
        Mr. Haynes graduated in mechanical engineering in 1961 from the Missouri School of Mines, now part of the University of Missouri, and earned commercial pilot's and flight instructor's certificates.
        He had a career with the New York City Transit Authority, supervising and inspecting subway-car prototypes for 20 years. After retiring from the authority in the mid-1980's, he worked in the regional office of the National Transportation Safety Board in Parsippany, N.J.,  until a few years ago.
        His survivors include four sisters, Alma Warner of Culpeper, Va., and Ivy Ballard, Evelyn Polhill and Frances Haynes of Brooklyn, and a brother, Charles, also of Brooklyn.
      