
        Sir Martin Furnival Jones, who headed the British security apparatus when Western fears of Soviet penetration were at their obsessive cold war zenith, died on March 1. He was 84.
        Sir Martin's background in the spy trade went back to World War II. He saw his career blossom in an atmosphere of scandal in the 1950's and headed M.I.-5, Britain's counterintelligence agency from 1965 until 1972.
        During his largely anonymous tenure as director general, long inquiries into the possible infiltration of M.I.-5 by Soviet intelligence came to a boil. A group of Young Turks in his agency, from whom he distanced himself, embarked on a molehunt for a Russian plant without ever finding a satisfactory conclusion.
        Sir Martin on the whole succeeded in shielding M.I.-5 from intimations that it was hostile to the Labor Party, and that some of its operatives had schemed to destabilize the Government of Prime Minister Harold Wilson. Evidence of that murky affair emerged in bits only years later.
        Sir Martin then acknowledged that he had apprised the Government of a quasi-plot hatched in 1968 by a cabal of counterspies, civilian officials and military officers who feared that Labor was ruining the country. Confirming the stories when they surfaced in 1981, he characterized the schemers as ''a pretty loony crew.''
        Edward Martin Furnival Jones was born in High Barnet, England.  He studied medieval and modern languages, and then law, at Cambridge University, graduating in 1938. He had just started a law career as a solicitor when war broke out in 1939, and he joined the army. He was commissioned into the Intelligence Corps in 1940 and attached the following year to M.I.-5, where he remained until he retired in 1972.
        He worked in protective security early on, meaning he looked after mundane matters like confidential files and secured buildings. He was named head of that section in 1953, took charge of the overall counter-espionage branch in 1958 and rose to deputy director general in 1963.
        Two years later he succeeded Sir Roger Hollis, a personal friend, as the agency's director general. He remained convinced of Sir Roger's innocence when he came under suspicion as a Soviet mole -- the legendary ''fifth man'' in a group of traitors that included H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, Anthony Blunt, Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean. The ''fifth man,'' John Caircross, was not positively identified until 1991.
        Sir Martin, who was knighted in 1967, is survived by his wife, Margaret, and one daughter.
      