
        Eric Fenby, a British musician and musicologist who was a transcriber for the British composer Frederick Delius, died on Feb. 18 in Scarborough, England, where he lived. He was 90.
        Mr. Fenby, a native of Scarborough, was originally trained as an organist and went on to become a composer, conductor, teacher and author. He was professor of harmony at the Royal Academy of Music in London from 1964 until 1977.
        He is best known for his work in the 1920's and 30's with Delius (1862-1934), a romanticist who also made use of impressionistic devices in his work. Raymond Ericson wrote in The New York Times in 1982 that Mr. Fenby ''was indispensable in the creation of Delius's last compositions,'' including ''some new Delius masterpieces.'' He described their collaboration as ''one of the more affecting and heartwarming chapters in the history of music.''
        Mr. Fenby started out as a fervent admirer of Delius, whom he had never met. In 1928, hearing that Delius had become virtually helpless -- blind and paralyzed as a result of advancing disease -- Mr. Fenby wrote him and and offered to serve as a kind of secretary. Delius gratefully agreed, and Mr. Fenby worked with him at the composer's home in Grez-sur-Loing, not far from Paris, in extended stays until Delius died almost six years later.
        It had seemed doubtful that Delius would ever compose again, but the collaboration was surprisingly fruitful. Delius sang his dictation in a near-monotone that Mr. Fenby at first found almost impossible to make sense of. But he gradually worked out a system for transcribing the music that Delius dictated, and the composer went on to produce half a dozen works, including ''Songs of Farewell,'' which was written for double choir and orchestra and includes poetry by Walt Whitman.
        After Delius's death, Mr. Fenby returned to England and wrote a moving memoir about their collaboration, ''Delius as I Knew Him'' (1936, Cambridge). The story was later the subject of ''A Song of Summer,'' a BBC television documentary.
        As a teacher of composition at the Royal Academy, as with Delius, Mr. Fenby spent most of his time encouraging talent in others. Believing that ''only genius matters,'' he destroyed a symphony and other works that he himself had composed.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Rowena Marshall; a son and a daughter.
      