
        Cyril Francis Brickfield, former  executive director of the American Association of Retired Persons and once the No. 2 official at the Veterans Administration, died on Friday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 and lived in Bethesda.
        The cause was cancer, said the A.A.R.P., from which he retired as executive director 10 years ago.
        Mr. Brickfield spent 20 years with the association, serving as executive director for 12 of them and in other periods filling posts like legal counsel and director of legislative activities. He is credited with a swelling of the organization's membership, from a million in 1967 to 28 million two decades later, by which time the A.A.R.P. had become one of the largest secular groups in the country.
        He was also a former president of the Federal Bar Association and, for part of his time with the A.A.R.P.,  served concurrently as executive director of the National Association of Retired Teachers.
        A tireless advocate for the elderly, Mr. Brickfield was an American delegate to the United Nations' World Assembly on Aging in Vienna in 1981, and a member of the advisory council for the White House Conference on Aging that year.
        Mr. Brickfield was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Fordham University. He piloted B-17 bombers over Europe in World War II, left the Army Air Forces with the rank of captain, then graduated from Fordham Law School in 1948 and later, at George Washington University, earned a master's degree in public administration and a doctorate of law.
        He was a law clerk for the chief judge of the Court of Appeals, New York State's highest court, from 1949 to 1951 and then worked for 10 years as counsel to the House Judiciary Committee in Washington.
        He was appointed counsel to the Veterans Administration in 1961, then became the agency's chief benefits director before he was appointed Deputy Administrator in 1965. In that post, he established a V.A. nursing care system and oversaw the agency's 169 hospitals and 70 regional offices.
        Mr. Brickfield is survived by his wife of 46 years, Ann Jacobsen Brickfield; a daughter, Ann Brickfield of Reston, Va.; a son, Edmund, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Francis X. Brickfield of Brooklyn, and one granddaughter.
      