
        Joseph H. McConnell, a former president of the National Broadcasting Company and of the Reynolds Metals Company, died on Thursday in a retirement home in Atlanta. He was 90 and also had a home in Brevard, N.C.
        Mr. McConnell was president of NBC from 1949 until he resigned in December 1952.
        In 1951, he introduced a new code of standards and practices for NBC's television programming.
        The code set standards for costuming; the content and length of commercials; children's and young people's programs; crime and mystery programs, and sexual references in dramatic situations, dialogue and song lyrics.
        In 1952, he signed a contract with Robert E. Sherwood, an author who had won three Pulitzer Prizes for drama and one for biography, to write nine original television plays for NBC.
        It was reported at the time that the contract assured Mr. Sherwood of greater financial reward -- in six figures or more -- and greater artistic freedom than had ever been granted a writer in the field of broadcasting.
        Mr. McConnell went on to be president of the Colgate-Palmolive Company, the manufacturer of soaps and toiletries, from February 1953 until he resigned in 1955. No reason for his resignation was given at the time.
        He was president of Reynolds, a leading aluminum producer, from 1963 until he retired from that post in 1971.
        In 1965, after the Federal Government had succeeded in pushing back aluminum prices by threatening to release stockpiled aluminum onto the market, Mr. McConnell indicated in a speech that the aluminum industry had not abandoned its hopes for higher prices. He added, ''We must never relinquish the privilege of our heritage -- the right of any American to disagree with his government.''
        He was also chairman of the Communications Satellite Corporation from 1970 to 1979.
        Mr. McConnell was born in Chester, S.C., and grew up in Davidson, N.C. He graduated in 1927 from Davidson College and in 1931 from the University of Virginia Law School. He practiced law in Washington and in New York.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Elizabeth Bernard; three daughters, Elizabeth Eells of Cleveland and Teed M. Lowance and Catherine Russell, both of Atlanta; and seven grandchildren.
      