
        Arthur G. B. Metcalf, an aeronautical engineer, electronics industrialist and chairman emeritus of the Boston University board of trustees, died on Sunday of heart failure at Symmes Medical Center in Arlington, Mass., Kevin Carleton, a spokesman for the university, said yesterday. Mr. Metcalf was 88.
        During the course of a life that made him a millionaire many times over, Mr. Metcalf was a flight test engineer, pilot, scientist, inventor, professor, philanthropist and proponent of a strong national defense.
        Mr. Metcalf's association with Boston University began in 1934 when he joined the faculty and founded the department of aeronautical engineering in the College of Business Administration. At the time, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which Mr. Metcalf attended, was the only other university in the Northeast to offer a complete course in the field. The department later came to be known as the Boston University College of Engineering.
        While at M.I.T. Mr. Metcalf developed a monoplane, one Mr. Metcalf contended would allow people to learn to pilot with perfect safety in a single afternoon.
        Mr. Metcalf continued his work on the plane at Boston University, and earned a bachelor of science degree in 1935. Four years later he received a master of science degree from Harvard University.
        During the course of his career Mr. Metcalf taught courses at M.I.T., Boston University and Harvard.
        In 1937, Mr. Metcalf resigned from the university to found the corporation that was to become the Electronics Corporation of America.
        In World War II, Mr. Metcalf served in the Army, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        After the war he returned to his company and under his leadership it was a pioneer in the application of electronic technology to industrial controls. Annual sales rose from $5 million in 1954, when the company's shares were first listed on the American Stock Exchange, to $51 million in 1986, when the company was acquired by the Rockwell International Corporation for $100 million.
        In aeronautical engineering, Mr. Metcalf was a pioneer in the systems for aircraft stability and control. He served as an adviser to the United States Army Air Corps and the United States Air Force, and was an associate fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society of Britain and the Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics in this country.
        In 1954 Mr. Metcalf re-established ties with Boston University when he was elected a trustee. In October 1976, he was named chairman and served in that post until 1994, when he became chairman emeritus. His term of service was the longest in the university's history.
        Over the years Mr. Metcalf, who lived in Winchester, Mass., was a generous benefactor to Boston University. He established the Metcalf Prize and Metcalf awards for excellence in teaching, conferred each year at commencement to honor outstanding teachers. And he donated millions for the construction of a science and engineering complex that bears his name.
        Mr. Metcalf was also a vigorous defender of John R. Silber, Boston University's forceful, sometimes abrasive president, who during the course of his tenure has clashed with a group of faculty members and individuals who have chosen to oppose him during his effort to rebuild the university. Mr. Silber was named to the newly created post of chancellor last June.
        ''It seemed there was very little he did not understand,'' Mr. Silber said yesterday. ''He has left behind an enduring mark, not only in teaching and academic administration, but in the electronics industry and establishing and sustaining the U.S. Strategic Institute, and its Strategic Review, of which he was its chief editor.''
        Mr. Metcalf founded the United States Strategic Institute in 1972, and served as its chairman until his death. Established to provide a platform to debate issues affecting national security, the institute's quarterly journal, Strategic Review, has served as a forum for such discussion. Mr. Metcalf served as the journal's first strategic studies editor.
        Mr. Metcalf was also an accomplished yachtsman. His 60-foot ketch, Veritas, was a well-known sight around Martha's Vineyard.
        ''He told me once E.C.A. was created to become an instrument of his happiness,'' a vehicle that would allow him to afford his boat, his airplane and his automobile,'' Mr. Silber said. ''On a professor's salary, he said he quickly discovered that was not possible. He was a man who really enjoyed life.''
        Mr. Metcalf is survived by four daughters, Anne M. Reiss of Boston, Mary Lee M. Syberts of Millis, Mass., Hope M. Riccardi of Franklin, Mass. and Helen Curtis Metcalf of California; a half-brother, Herbert B. Jacobs of Wayland, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      