
        Jacques Foccart, who masterminded clandestine military coups in French-speaking Africa for Charles de Gaulle and three French presidents after him, died at his home this morning. He was 83.
        Mr. Foccart's secrecy and preference for operating in the shadows were legendary. He was trusted by France's friends in Africa and remained a powerful influence on his country's African policy almost to his death, serving as an honorary adviser to President Jacques Chirac after his election in 1995.
        Mr. Foccart's Machiavellian hand was seen in many a coup and manipulation in French-speaking Africa over the years, and lately in Mr. Chirac's policy of indirect support for President Mobutu Sese Seko in Zaire, despite the crumbling of support for Mr. Mobutu at home.
        Gaullist politicians paid effusive tribute to him today. ''A great servant of our country has died,'' said Economic Cooperation Minister Jacques Godfrain.
        Mr. Foccart was born in Ambrieres near Mayenne in west-central France on Aug. 31, 1913. He spent his first six years in Guadeloupe, where his family had property. Drafted into the French Army at the start of World War II, he avoided capture when France fell and, according to his biographer, Pierre Pean, joined the Resistance only after the German occupiers brought a criminal complaint against him for construction work he was doing for them to build fortifications on the Atlantic coast.
        For his Resistance work he won an award from the United States Army and friendships in the inner circle of the leadership around General de Gaulle, the leader of the French government in exile.
        After the war he started an import-export company called Safiex that did business in many of the French colonies in Africa, although Mr. Foccart said most of its activities were centered on the West Indies.
        The company did so well that Mr. Foccart, almost single-handedly, was able to finance the Rally of the French People, the party that de Gaulle, who had served briefly as President after returning to France in 1944, organized to support his political agenda.
        Mr. Foccart also became one of the founders of a powerful private police force the movement organized to do battle against the Communists -- the Service d'Action Civique, the ''Action Service.''
        Its school in Cercottes, outside of Orleans, became a gathering place for the keepers of the Gaullist flame in the 1950s. Mr. Foccart forged lasting connections there with a network of army officers and secret service operatives that survived long after de Gaulle's movement disbanded in 1955.
        Support for the General did not die with it. With a colonial war raging in Algeria, the men fighting to keep it a French colony thought politicians in Paris were selling them out, and many came to believe de Gaulle could keep Algeria French.
        Under the code name ''Mathurin,'' Mr. Foccart masterminded the strategy that brought the General back to power in 1958, using the secret intelligence networks he had forged to create popular fears of a coming coup d'etat led by angry paratroopers from Algeria and to make sure that when the Fourth Republic fell, de Gaulle, not the diehards in Algeria, would get power.
        As first President of the Fifth Republic, de Gaulle made the bald, bespectacled Mr. Foccart, who was rarely seen in public, one of his closest aides. He became Secretary-General of the French Community, the vehicle de Gaulle created in 1960 after giving France's colonies in Africa nominal independence. There, Mr. Foccart put his clandestine operating skills to use over the next nine years.
        ''Foccart was assigned the task of orchestrating an arrangement whereby French interests could maintain the upper hand in her former colonies, for whom she had done virtually nothing to prepare for independence,'' Douglas Porch, an American expert, wrote in ''The French Secret Services,'' published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux in 1995.
        In 1964, Mr. Foccart sent French troops to oil-rich Gabon to keep Leon Mba, a close ally, in power against an American-supported rival, and incidentally to protect the local interests of the French petroleum group Elf, led by another close friend.
        Asked by Philippe Gaillard in his first volume of memoirs, ''Foccart Speaks,'' published in France two years ago, who had run Gabon, Mr. Foccart said, ''Without question, it was Mba. But I was available, and he consulted me a lot.''
        There were six military coups in French-speaking Africa at the end of 1965 and the beginning of 1966, but, Mr. Foccart said, France did nothing to foment any of those, including one that brought Jean-Bedel Bokassa to power as President of the Central African Republic.
        The threat of calling off a visit by Mr. Bokassa to Paris in 1969 was enough, he recalled, to get the African leader to halt an economic boycott of Chad, another country where France had, and still has, important military interests.
        He was a lifelong friend of Felix Houphouet-Boigny , who served in French governments in colonial times and later became President of the Ivory Coast.
        ''He never caused blood to flow, and he let fewer of his opponents rot in prison than others did,'' Mr. Foccart later wrote.
        De Gaulle left power after a year of tumult in France in 1969, but Mr. Foccart stayed on, first for President Georges Pompidou and later, despite some interruptions, for President Valery Giscard d'Estaing, who finally authorized French support for an uprising against Mr. Bokassa after the African leader proclaimed himself Emperor.
        ''There were chiefs of state who had sent their ambassadors demands for French assistance in case of a coup d'etat,'' Mr. Foccart told the daily Le Figaro, without revealing details. He wrote a second volume of memoirs to fill in some of the gaps in the first, but delayed its  publication. A spokeswoman for the publisher, Fayard/Jeune Afrique, said it would come out on April 9.
      