
        Willem de Kooning, who came to New York City from his native Rotterdam and radically altered the shape of American art after World War II, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, L.I.. He was 92.
        A near-mythic figure in American art, Mr. de Kooning became the embodiment of its heyday in the 1950's, when the movement that he epitomized, Abstract Expressionism, rose to international prominence. Even before then he was a charismatic presence on the New York art scene, a regular at the old Cedar Bar, the famous artists' hangout in Greenwich Village, where he became legendary for his choirboy good looks, soft-spoken charm and hard drinking.
        Late in life, he remained a striking man, half Dutch sailor, half Charlie Chaplin in baggy trousers, with his thick Dutch accent, home-grown English patois (the artist Robert Rauschenberg called it ''his beautiful lingo''), clear blue eyes and shock of white hair. His off again, on again  marriage to the painter Elaine de Kooning lasted until she died in 1989 and his own health had already seriously declined.
        Mr. de Kooning was known, among other things, for his ''Woman'' paintings. The female figure became the tonic note to which he returned again and again in his long career, and from this preoccupation came many of his most hotly contested works: the toothy, blowzy images of the late 1940's, 50's and 60's, which have been described every which way: as sexist and pornographic, affectionate and funny, or all these things at once. They are garish high-heeled figures with puckered lips and fuchsia nails, bulging eyes and bulging breasts, painted with an almost vicious enthusiasm.
        ''They look vociferous and ferocious, and I think it had to do with the idea of the idol, the oracle and above all the hilariousness of it,'' Mr. de Kooning once said. ''I do think that if I don't look upon life that way, I won't know how to keep on being around.''
        These icons of modern painting have continued to touch some nerve at the very core of American consciousness. Long before Andy Warhol ever thought of silk-screening Marilyn Monroe, Mr. de Kooning culled sources from as far afield as tobacco advertisements and fashion spreads in women's magazines. ''I always seem to be wrapped in the melodrama of vulgarity,'' he said.
        He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease since at least the late 1980's. In February 1989, his daughter, Lisa, and his lawyer, John L. Eastman, filed a petition in State Supreme Court in Mineola, L.I., asking that he be declared incapable of looking after his business affairs. Much debate has focused on the nature of his art from the years immediately preceding, specifically, to what extent his paintings of the 1980's may have been affected by his debilitating illness and how much work his assistants may have contributed to them. . A traveling show of late pictures, now at the Museum of Modern Art, has dispelled some of the rumors about the circumstances in which they were made and proved that, nearly to the end, Mr. de Kooning worked as he always had, improvisationally and episodically.
        A Style Unsettled  To the Very End
        But inevitably the show leaves unsettled the issue of quality. The very last works on view are flat, weightless ribbons of color against vacant fields of white.
        It was the final contested chapter of a career in which each stylistic shift was greeted with acclaim by some and lamented as a retreat from previous triumphs by others. Over the years critics contended that his decline began as early as 1950, barely after he had his first one-man show; others said it started in the 60's, still others in the 70's or 80's. In the 1960's, Mr. de Kooning became Public Enemy No. 1 for many young American artists clamoring for change, though in truth painters who built their reputations partly in opposition to Abstract Expressionism, like Robert Rauschenberg and Cy Twombly, relied heavily on Mr. de Kooning's example.
        They could hardly avoid it. Virtually no American painter to emerge then could. Mr. de Kooning eventually became a victim of his own tremendous gravitational pull: he attracted countless imitators who could not begin to match the fluency, wit, sexual energy and sheer invention of his art, and they tarnished gestural abstraction, or ''Action Painting,'' as the critic Harold Rosenberg termed the style with which Mr. de Kooning was inextricably linked.
        Somewhat paradoxically, Europeans never regarded Mr. de Kooning with quite the reverence Americans did, partly, perhaps,  because they saw him as too European: they considered his voluptuous paint to be merely a modernist twist on works by Dutch masters like Franz Hals and Jacob Jordaens, rather than a truly new form of art. The fact is, it was both original and indebted to painters of the past.
        Contained Male Figures And Blowsy Women
        By consensus, his works from the late 1940's and early 50's are touchstones of 20th-century American art. After that, Mr. de Kooning's development can be said to have had an ebb and flow, so that significant works emerged intermittently during nearly every phase of his fecund career.
        From his first mature paintings, of male figures in the 1930's, through his black-and-white paintings and ''Woman'' series, to the abstract cityscapes he did in the 50's, Mr. de Kooning progressively piled on pigment along with detail. The early works from the 30's were flat, tensile, almost discreet images of contained emotion, with the remains of his constant revisions incorporated like worry lines in the final canvases.
        Gradually this style gave way to masterpieces like ''Attic'' (1949) and ''Excavation'' (1950), which were maelstroms of weaving and careering lines and roiling forms.
        By the time Mr. de Kooning got to bravura canvases like ''Gotham News'' (1955) and ''Saturday Night'' (1956), his art had become a near-volcano of raucous, nervous and uncontainable energy. These paintings were discursions on Cubism, the Cubist grid stretched, pulled and twisted until it was barely recognizable, a skeleton for fleshy paint.
        By the early 1960's his art seemed to empty out, like air being let out of a giant balloon. Mr. de Kooning had moved out of Manhattan to live full time in East Hampton in 1963, and he spoke admiringly of open spaces and the American highway. His new paintings, with their big, long brush strokes crisscrossing large canvases, also suggested the flat stretches of potato fields and beaches at his new home.
        The works he produced in the early 60's  became clean slates for another round of building up images. The process reached orgiastic extremes by the 1970's with pictures as dense as those of the mid-50's but more ebullient and less frenetic. Critics called them frothy. Certainly the ocean seemed to be in those fluid 70's pictures, with their splashes and cascades of pigment and forms that emerged and submerged. So were the human references. Mr. de Kooning was almost never so abstract that he lost touch with the observed world of figures and landscapes. An often repeated story has it that the critic Clement Greenberg, who championed pure abstraction, insisted that it had become ''impossible today to paint a face,'' to which Mr. de Kooning replied,  ''That's right, and it's impossible not to.''
        In the 80's there was another emptying out in Mr. de Kooning's work: heavy impasto gave way to sanded and scraped surfaces, rainbows of color yielding to red, orange and blue bands twisting on bare backgrounds. Sometimes, in the process of working, he blanketed areas with white, leaving only a fragment of previous detail to bob up from beneath the fresh covering, like flotsam in the waves. Mr. de Kooning once said, in his cryptic way, ''I have to change to stay the same.'' He also said: ''It seems that a lot of artists, when they get older, they get simpler. They feel their own miracle in nature, a feeling of being on the other side of nature.''
        The best early 80's pictures can be airy, lyrical and elegiac, almost like a memory of his paintings from the 40's, without the famous stress and strain. One can still see his rhythmical, seemingly effortless graphic virtuosity in the forms that spin and loop across a few of these late canvases. But there is a poignancy to other ones, an icy silence hard to dissociate from Mr. de Kooning's mental decline.
        A Skilled Dutchman Bound for America
        Willem de Kooning was born on April 24, 1904, in Rotterdam to Leendert de Kooning and Cornelia Nobel. His father was a wine, beer and soft-drink distributor. His mother ran a workingmen's bar. They divorced when he was a small boy, and he was brought up first by his father, then by his strong-willed mother, who sent him out when he was 12 to apprentice at a commercial art and decorating firm.
        The firm recommended him to the Rotterdam Academy of Fine Arts and Techniques, where he took classes in painting and learned about the works of Picasso, Mondrian, de Stijl artists and other modernists. He spent 1924 in art school in Brussels, supporting himself by painting signs, drawing cartoons and designing window displays, then returned to complete his degree in Rotterdam in 1925. His training distinguished him from other first-generation Abstract Expressionists, just as his experience in design and commercial art allowed him to find work at places like the A. S. Beck shoe stores during his early years in the United States.
        He immigrated in 1926, having stowed aboard the Shelley. As a boy, he had developed a romantic fascination with America, reading about Walt Whitman, Frank Lloyd Wright and the Wild West. He wanted to find a job as a commercial artist.
        ''Being young, I really didn't understand the nature of painting,'' he said years later. ''I really intended to become an applied artist. I mean, it was more logical to be a designer or a commercial artist. I didn't intend to become a painter. That would come later.''
        Speaking little English, he first settled into a boardinghouse for Dutch seamen in Hoboken, across the Hudson from New York City. Then he moved to a studio on West 44th Street in Manhattan in 1927. For the next eight years he worked at odd jobs, painting only on weekends.
        It was in those days that he frequented galleries and cafeterias and met artists like John Graham, Stuart Davis, David Smith and Arshile Gorky. The Armenian-born Gorky especially was to exercise a powerful influence over him. Like Gorky, Mr. de Kooning revered such painters as Ingres and Cezanne, and never felt the same urgency that some American-born painters did to break utterly with that tradition.
        ''It is a certain burden, this Americanness,'' he once said. And with characteristic generosity, he always deferred to Gorky: ''I had more legitimate schooling in Holland, but the things I was supposed to know he knew much better.'' He added: ''I am glad that it is about impossible to get away from his influence. As long as I keep it with myself, I'll be doing all right.''
        Depression-Era Project, Then a Full-Blown Career
        When the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration was established in 1935, Mr. de Kooning joined its mural division. Harold Rosenberg, who, as a critic in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, was to become one of his great advocates, served as his assistant on a proposed abstract mural for the Williamsburg Federal Housing Project in Brooklyn. The mural was never completed but a small study for it became the first painting by Mr. de Kooning to be exhibited in the United States, as part of a 1936 show at the Museum of Modern Art. Most significantly, the project allowed him to devote himself full time to his career as a painter.
        He told an interviewer in 1959 that he had had to leave the Federal Art Project because he was a foreigner, but that the year that he took part in it ''gave me such a terrific feeling that I gave up painting on the side and took a different attitude.''
        ''After the project I decided to paint and do odd jobs on the side,'' he said. ''The situation was the same, but I had a different attitude.''
        Mr. de Kooning's work was occasionally exhibited in group shows during the 1940's. He was given his first one-man show in 1948, at the Egan Gallery, when he was already 44. None of his work sold during the show, though ''Painting,'' was bought soon afterward by the Museum of Modern Art.
        Mr. de Kooning's poverty has been often recounted. His wife, Elaine, said they were so short of money that whenever they cobbled a few cents together, they had to decide between cigarettes and food. Often, they chose cigarettes. Out of dissatisfaction, Mr. de Kooning destroyed many of his early paintings (''I was so modest then that I was vain,'' he once said) and what he didn't destroy he sold for a pittance. John Graham bought one picture for $50. Rudy Burckhardt, the Swiss photographer, a neighbor and friend, bought another for ''maybe $200,'' he said. ''What an investment!'' he said. ''It later paid for my divorce, a house in Maine and a co-op loft on 29th Street.''
        After the Egan show, Mr. de Kooning's work received increasing attention. Clement Greenberg hailed him as ''one of the four or five most important painters in the country,'' and during the next few years he was included in large international surveys like the 1950 Venice Biennale, the 1951 Sao Paulo Bienal and the 1952 Carnegie International in Pittsburgh. The critical response gradually helped his career and by the mid-1950's collectors finally began to buy his work with regularity.
        By 1956, when Jackson Pollock died, opinion was vigorously split over who was the pre-eminent New York School painter, Pollock or Mr. de Kooning. ( At Pollock's funeral, Mr. de Kooning famously conceded that it was Pollock who ''broke the ice'' for Abstract Expressionism.)
        Mr. de Kooning had met his wife, then an art student, in 1938. ''She didn't treat him too well at first,'' Mr. Burckhardt recounted. ''He had to take her home to Brooklyn at 2 or 3 in the morning, an hour subway ride each way, so after a while, they got married.''
        For a time, they lived on 22d Street in a loft with a secondhand bed, a hot plate, some chairs salvaged from the trash and cafeteria flatware. In 1944, they moved to a cold-water flat on Carmine Street in Greenwich Village, where Elaine de Kooning worked. Mr. de Kooning took a separate studio on Fourth Avenue. Their relationship was tumultuous and unconventional. They separated in 1955, and Mr. de Kooning's daughter, Lisa, was born to the artist Joan Ward the next year. Three years later, Mr. de Kooning left on a trip to Italy with a friend, Ruth Kligman. Through the 1960's and 70's various women moved in and out of Mr. de Kooning's life.
        These were rough years for him. He drank more and more, suffering blackouts. His wife re-entered his life in the late 1970's and helped him to stop drinking and to renew his work. She took care of him until her own death from cancer at the age of 68. Like Ms. Ward, she had a house in East Hampton, not far from his.
        Mr. de Kooning had moved there partly to escape the endless interruptions that attended his growing fame. By the early 60's he had become a celebrity, mobbed every time he went out to eat. He had first gone to Long Island in 1948 to visit Pollock and his wife, Lee Krasner, and later spent summers there with the art dealer Leo Castelli and his family. ''I like to go out when I feel like it, maybe for an hour in the morning and again in the afternoon, and I like to ride around without being bothered,'' he said of the appeal of life outside the city.
        He designed his own studio, tinkering with the plans for years. He completed it in the late 1960's, its huge glass walls and white terrazzo floors reflecting the steely shore light. A platform cantilevered high in the air allowed him to look down from a distance on the works he laid flat on a table or the floor. The studio was once compared to both a chemist's workshop and a vast kitchen, filled as it was with his neat array of ordinary house painter's brushes, scrapers, spatulas, knives and the large salad bowls in which he is said to have mixed oil paints with water, kerosene and safflower oil, among other ingredients.
        He became more isolated on Long Island. But he had made several important trips during the 1960's that altered the direction of his art. He visited the Louvre for the first time in 1968, the year he returned to Holland for the first time for a retrospective at the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. In 1969, he visited Japan, where his encounters with printmakers inspired him to do freely calligraphic black-and-white lithographs, something he had not attempted before. That year he also went to Rome, where a friend persuaded him to try his hand at sculpture. For the next decade Mr. de Kooning produced first small, then large bronze figural works, their surfaces kneaded and pummeled in a way that mimicked if never quite matched the sumptuous, refractory and antic quality of his paintings and drawings.
        Since the 1950's, Mr. de Kooning had had major exhibitions of his work around the world, though he complained about them. He once said that museums treat artists ''as if you are dead and they own you.''
        Among the later de Kooning retrospectives were a show at the Guggenheim Museum in 1978, another at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1983 and another in 1994-95 jointly organized by the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Tate Gallery in London, a show that also went to the Metropolitan Museum in New York. The current traveling exhibition of his 1980's work opened at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in 1995 and is ending its tour at the Modern, where it is to close in April.
        Describing a Process Wonderful and Strange
        By the boom years of the 1980's, prices for his art had skyrocketed: ''Interchange,'' a 1955 painting, sold at Sotheby's in 1989 for $20.7 million. Lisa de Kooning and Mr.  Eastman were named conservators of his property, which included his home and art, after his wife died that year. He is survived by Ms. de Kooning, who is married to Christian Villeneuve, a house builder, and their three daughters, Isabel, Emma and Lucy, of Springs in East Hampton.
        Of painters working into old age, he once observed that Titian, at 90, was so badly afflicted by arthritis that his assistants had to tie on his paint brushes. ''But he kept on painting Virgins in that luminous light, like he'd just heard about them,'' he said. ''Those guys had everything in place, the Virgin and God and the technique, but they kept it up like they were still looking for something. It's very mysterious.''
        Years earlier, describing his creative process, Mr. de Kooning said: ''I used to be so nervous I got palpitations. Now I don't have that trouble. I see the canvas, and I begin.''
        ''But,'' he added, ''you have to keep on the very edge of something, all the time, or the picture dies.''
      