
        Bill Bradley, who created the Broadway tradition of the Gypsy Robe, a long-running theatrical good luck symbol, died on Monday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 73 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications after a stroke, said his companion, Rudy Tronto.
        In 1950 when Mr. Bradley was a chorus member, or gypsy, in ''Gentleman Prefer Blondes,'' he gave a robe worn by another gypsy -- pale pink with white feathers -- to a member of the cast of ''Call Me Madam'' as an opening-night present. That robe, with a rose from Ethel Merman's costume pinned to it, was passed on to someone in ''Guys and Dolls,'' and a tradition was born, one that has lasted until today.
        The robe goes from show to show, presented on opening night to the member of the chorus with the most credits. Each time, a memento of the musical is added. When a costume is filled, it is retired, and a new costume begins the cycle.
        ''The 1960's robe had 52 shows on it,'' said Gloria Rosenthal, who is the historian of the Gypsy Robe. Last November, the current robe went to John Mineo in ''Chicago.'' He had been in 19 Broadway musicals. Carrying out the ritual, Mr. Mineo put on the robe and ran around the stage and to all the dressing rooms until every member of the company had touched it.
        Last night the robe was making its next stop, at ''Play On!,'' the Duke Ellington musical that opened at the Brooks Atkinson Theater.
        ''There are now eight existing robes, because each one got so full,'' said Mr. Tronto. ''And as the legend grew, the robes became elaborately embroidered.'' Robes have been displayed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.
        Mr. Bradley, who was born in Phoenix, Ariz., danced in many Broadway shows and also worked as a choreographer and director. He is survived by his companion.
        Correction:  March 22, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Bill Bradley, the creator of the Broadway tradition of the Gypsy Robe, which is passed from musical to musical for good luck, omitted one stop on its most recent travels. From ''Chicago,'' the robe was passed to ''Once Upon a Mattress'' before being handed over to ''Play On!''
      