
        Judge Charles R. Richey of the United States District Court in Washington, who was appointed to the bench because of his friendship with Vice President Spiro T. Agnew and quickly found himself ruling on Watergate-related cases, died on Wednesday night at the Washington Home hospice. He was 73 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        He had cancer.
        When appointed to the Federal bench in 1971 by President Richard M. Nixon, Mr. Richey had served in Maryland State government, and newspaper reports at the time wondered how ''Spiro's man'' would deal with Watergate.
        Judge Richey eventually ruled on a variety of Watergate cases, in which some of his decisions were favorable to the White House and others were not. In his later years, he established himself as a judge who was frequently skeptical of the Government and its assertions.
        But during the Watergate affair, John Dean, the White House counsel to President Nixon, testified before Congress that Judge Richey had met secretly with White House associates and agreed to help President Nixon.
        Mr. Dean, who was at the center of the Watergate cover-up, told Congress that a prominent Republican who was a neighbor of Judge Richey had spoken to him and received assurances that he would try to help the President in his rulings.
        At the time, Judge Richey angrily denied the charge, calling it, ''sheer poppycock, ridiculous.''
        Later in his book, ''Blind Ambition,'' Mr. Dean said the White House was elated when Judge Richey postponed until after the 1972 election the Democratic Party's lawsuit against Mr. Nixon's re-election committee.
        Whatever the reasons for the ruling, Judge Richey eventually also dealt several defeats to the Nixon Administration, denying, for example, the re-election committee's request to have four newspapers, including The New York Times and The Washington Post, turn over documents on the Watergate break-in.
        ''This court cannot blind itself to the possible chilling effect the enforcement of these subpoenas would have on the flow of information to the press and thus to the public,'' he said from the bench in March 1973.
        The next year, he became embroiled in a legal issue that was to play out for more than two decades: who owned the audio tapes that President Nixon covertly made while in the White House?
        In a sweeping 98-page opinion, Judge Richey blocked an effort by Mr. Nixon to take the tapes with him to California, saying that the claim was ''refuted by the Constitution'' and that ''former President Nixon's claim of ownership is therefore repugnant to the very nature of the office of President.''
        At the beginning of the Clinton Administration, Judge Richey had another opportunity to declare that no President was above the law when he ordered the preservation of 6,000 White House computer tapes that officials of the Bush and Reagan Administration wanted to destroy.
        Charles Robert Richey was born in Logan County, Ohio, the son of two professors at Ohio Wesleyan University. He received a bachelor's degree there and a law degree at Case Western Reserve University.
        Although he had a strict religious upbringing, in his courtroom, he replaced the traditional witness oath with his own version, which had no religious references and dispensed with the Bible.
        He believed strongly in the First Amendment's right of assembly for citizens, and in 1974 he was rebuked by an appeals court in ruling that Vietnam Veterans Against the War could demonstrate on the Mall in Washington.
        But he remained loyal to that principle, and in 1987 he dismissed charges against people camped in Lafayette Park, across from the White House, to protest homelessness. The protesters were exercising their rights under the First Amendment, he ruled, and this time he was overturned.
        Among the celebrated trials in which he participated was one in which W. A. Boyle, the former president of the United Mine Workers Union, was sentenced to prison for embezzling union money and another one in which senior members of the Church of Scientology were convicted for trying to steal Government documents.
        Judge Richey was proud of his environmental record, once telling a reporter that he rescued porpoises in 1976 by calling in the tuna ships in California because the fishermen had violated the Marine Mammal Protection Act by inadvertently netting and killing porpoises. That decision led President Gerald R. Ford to call for his removal, he said.
        ''I ruled against the Government in favor of the porpoise,'' he recalled gleefully.
        In 1976, he became the first judge to hold that employees who are sexually harassed by their superiors at work can file charges under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
        1981, Judge Richey made what was then the largest damages award to victims of sex discrimination when he ordered the Government Printing Office to pay $6 million to 324 female bindery workers whose wages had for years been far lower than the wages of their male counterparts.
        Judge Richey is survived by his wife, Agnes Mardelle White Richey, and two sons, Charles R. Jr. and William Paul.
      