
        V.S. Pritchett, the versatile and astoundingly prolific English writer who over a six-decade career became a master of fiction, nonfiction, biography and literary criticism, died on Thursday at Whittington Hospital here. He was 96.
        A man of letters in the tradition of Charles Lamb, Edmund Wilson and William Hazlitt -- at 88, he published his last biography, of Chekhov -- Sir Victor was perhaps best known for his dozens of meticulously observed short stories, in which he chronicled the extraordinary underpinnings of ordinary lives. In story after story, Mr. Pritchett made the commonplace fascinating, capturing subtleties of mood, language, behavior and motivation with precision and sensitivity.
        ''These are social stories,'' Eudora Welty wrote in The New York Times Book Review. ''Life goes on in them without flagging. The characters that fill them -- erratic, unsure, unsafe, devious, stubborn, restless and desirous, absurd and passionate, all peculiar unto themselves -- hold a claim on us that is not to be denied. They demand and get our rapt attention, for in their revelation of their lives, the secrets of our own lives come into view. How much the eccentric has to tell us of what is central!''
        Victor Sawdon Pritchett, the son of Walter and Beatrice Martin Pritchett, was born to genteel lower-middle-class poverty in Ipswich, Suffolk, in 1900, at the tail end of the reign of Queen Victoria, for whom he was named. ''There was this cocksparrow, my father, now a commercial traveler, dressy and expansive with optimism, walking in and out of jobs with the bumptiousness of a god,'' he wrote in ''A Cab at the Door'' (1968), the first volume of his memoirs. ''There was our sulky, moody mother, either laughing or in tears.''
        Victor's Micawber-like father was a boundlessly optimistic but chronically unsuccessful businessman whose myriad failed ventures necessitated frequent and sudden departures in the cab that attended at the door. By the time Victor was 12, the Pritchetts had moved 18 times, ricocheting between Ealing, Hammersmith, Uxbridge, Palmers Green and other London districts and suburbs. ''I did not know that almost every time we moved house,'' Sir Victor  wrote, ''Father had lost his job or was swinging dangerously between an old disaster and a new enterprise.''
        As a result, Victor's education was undisciplined, haphazard and often underachieving, though he showed a precocious aptitude for languages. He also began a lifelong habit of passionate, voracious reading, tearing his way at an early age through Dickens, Ruskin, Thomas Hardy, the complete works of Shakespeare -- anything he could lay his hands on. ''That I understood very little of what I read did not matter much to me,'' he wrote. ''I was caught by the passion for print as an alcoholic is caught by the bottle.'' He decided to become a poet, but met with opposition at home, where his father worried, Sir Victor wrote, that he would ''starve in a garret.''
        At 15, he was forced to leave school and was packed off to a menial clerical job ''on a stool'' at a leather wholesaler. The work was deadly dull, but he whiled away the time by observing his colorful co-workers and immersing himself in fiction. At 20, he moved to Paris with very little money in his pocket, vowing to himself never to return.
        A Salesman in Paris, A Journalist in Spain
        The trip turned out to be relatively short, just two years, but the young writer thrived in the city's culture and ambience. He worked at a variety of odd jobs -- as a photographer's assistant on the Boulevard des Italiens, and as a door-to-door salesman of paint, shellac and glue, among other jobs -- while yearning to write. ''I could not see that I had anything to say except that I was alive,'' he later related in ''Midnight Oil'' (1971), the second volume of his memoirs. ''I simply wanted to write two or three sentences, even as banal as the advertisement on a sauce bottle, and see them in print with my name beneath them.''
        He proved good at it, too, and The Christian Science Monitor published several freelance essays before making him the paper's Ireland correspondent, later sending him to Spain, which was as exotic to him as China. ''I spoke no Spanish,'' he wrote in ''Midnight Oil.'' ''The only thing I knew about Spain was that it had had the Inquisition and that the Armada had been defeated.''
        But Spain was to figure in his imagination for the rest of his life, and his impressions of it led to a book of short stories, ''The Spanish Virgin and Other Stories'' (1930) and to his first travelogue, ''Marching Spain'' (1928), an account of his idiosyncratic walking trip from southern to northern Spain. (When he discussed that book, Sir Victor was as hard on himself as any literary critic. ''Though I have tenderness for the book and think some pages rather good,'' he wrote, ''I am glad it has been out of print for 40 years.'')
        His career as a foreign correspondent was coming to an end. ''In my heart I despised news and was confused by opinion,'' he explained. After a brief assignment in the United States, where he wrote about dirt-poor families in Appalachia and filled notebook after notebook with dialogue, both he and The Monitor had had enough. ''My prose was at last too much for them,'' he said. ''I was sacked.''
        He moved back to London, looking for writing work, despite the continued suspicion of his parents. His mother, he said, ''always spoke of it as if writing were some unlucky thing -- like rain -- and that I was out in it without a coat.'' He found his way to the offices of The New Statesman, where he was almost immediately put to work. His association with that journal was to last for 40 years, the first 20 of which, he wrote, he had to ''work for other papers in order to afford to write for it.''
        But Sir Victor was never again  satisfied with a single genre of writing, and combined his book reviews with published fiction of his own. His earlier efforts, four novels published between 1929 and 1937 -- ''Clare Drummer,'' ''Elopement Into Exile,'' ''Nothing Like Leather'' and ''Dead Man Leading'' -- were greeted coolly by the critics, one of whom called them ''highly wrought tales of highly intellectualized passion,'' and none sold particularly well. His last, and best-known, novel, ''Mr. Beluncle,'' whose protagonist's religious zealotry was loosely based on the adherence to Christian Science of Sir Victor's father, was published in 1951.
        From then on, Sir Victor's fiction was confined mostly to short stories, a form in which he was generally acknowledged a master. He wrote with pointillistic understanding about the lives of lower-middle-class people -- shopkeepers, pub owners, clerks, antiques dealers, housewives -- in a clear, economical, often humorous style that never showed off and never talked down to his readers. He had an ear for dialogue and an eye for detail.
        ''How compassionately, but not emotionally, he deals with all the complicated domestic politics of the respectable poor, the martyred or termagant wives, the feckless or drunken husbands, and that terror that walketh by noonday, the mother-in-law,'' Robertson Davies wrote in The Washington Post. ''This is literary achievement at a very high level.''
        Analyzing the Classics Without Airs or Pretense
        Sir Victor's fourscore-and-some short stories were collected in 1990 in a single volume, ''The Complete Short Stories.'' Among the most famous are ''When My Girl Comes Home,'' an account of a young woman's surprisingly prosperous return to England after World War II; the author's personal favorite, ''A Sense of Humor,'' a sharp little tale about the romance between an exceedingly silly girl and a man whose family is in the funeral business, and ''The Camberwell Beauty,'' the story of an old antiques dealer altered by his marriage to a very young woman. In ''The Fly in the Ointment,'' a well-known story that is clearly autobiographical, Sir Victor describes a young man's awkward visit to his father's near-empty office on the day his father's company goes into receivership.
        As he gained attention for his short stories, Sir Victor was also becoming a literary critic of renown and influence, one whose book reviews and essays appeared for decades in a regular column in The New Statesman and later in The Nation. During World War II, when few new books were being published, he wrote a 2,000-word essay each week on a classic author, an exercise that allowed him, and his readers, to revisit great works. He became comfortable in Spanish and French, but knew no Russian, although it was to Russian literature that he kept returning in his later years.
        Sir Victor's essays were marked by ease of style and clarity of thought. ''Pritchett is informal but never clubby, witty but never snide or snobbish, precise and always full of gusto -- a true descendant of William Hazlitt,'' wrote Richard Locke in The New York Times Book Review.
        ''He has the lower-middle-class Londoner's quick eye and sharp tongue and appetite for comedy. He's quick to spot pride, the cover-up, flummery, snobbery, cant. From his work he appears to be an emotional, intensely curious man -- plucky, blunt, generous.''
        Many of his critical essays appeared in collections, including ''In My Good Books'' (1942), ''The Living Novel'' (1946) and ''Books in General'' (1953). A ''Complete Collected Essays'' was published recently by Random House.
        Although he was nominally a man of the left, he said he had never been  tempted to write a political article. ''I just hate militants,'' he told a visitor to the Regency townhouse near Camden Town that finally became a permanent abode after a lifetime of wanderings.
        The convergence betwen a writer's life and his work was of great interest to Sir Victor, and he took this theme further in a number of biographies. These included ''Balzac'' (1974); ''The Gentle Barbarian: The Life and Work of Turgenev'' (1977) and ''Chekhov: A Spirit Set Free'' (1988). He also lectured extensively in universities in Britain and the United States.
        In 1975, Sir Victor was knighted for services to literature; four years later, at the age of 79, he published ''The Myth Makers,'' a guide to world fiction that included essays on 19 non-English writers, among them Flaubert and Dostoyevsky. John Leonard, reviewing the book for The New York Times, was charmed by ''the music of this intelligence.'' He said that Sir Victor's writing was ''always avuncular,'' adding: ''His prose wears bedroom slippers. His mind puffs a pipe.''
        Sir Victor described himself in ''Midnight Oil'' as ''a bald man, sitting before a pastry board propped on a table, and writing. He does little else besides sit and write. His fattish face is supported by a valiance of chins; the head is held together by glasses that slip down a bridgeless nose that spreads its nostrils over a mustache.''
        Elsewhere, he once wrote that ''a writer is, at the very least, two persons. He is the prosing man at his desk and a sort of valet who dogs him and does the living.''
        An Optimistic Soul With a Sensitive Ear
        Well into his late 80's, Sir Victor carried on with a punishing workload that would have overwhelmed many younger writers, publishing his biography of Chekhov and continuing to write reviews nearly full-time. It was only in recent years that he began to slow down. But visitors making the journey to his home in Camden Town, north London, invariably found him cheerful, modest, invigorated by the world and happy in his work.
        An early marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy, whom he married in 1936; a son, Oliver, and a daughter, Josephine Murphy.
        Why V. S. and not Victor? Sir Victor preferred to use his initials because, he once said, he liked their anonymity. Besides, he added, ''to have added the 't' of Victor to a name that already had three, and was already made fidgety by a crush of consonants and two short vowels, seemed ridiculous.''
      