
        Morris Milton Schnitzer, a prominent New Jersey practitioner of civil law and one of a handful of legal experts who molded the state's modern court system in the late 1940's, died on March 8 at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston. He was 86 and lived in Montclair.
        Mr. Schnitzer, who passed up repeated opportunities for appointments to the bench, also helped shape the judiciary as an educator. For many years he taught civil practice and procedure at Rutgers and Seton Hall University Law Schools in Newark, sending generations of future judges to influential judicial positions from his classroom.
        He was a contemporary and peer of the founders of New Jersey's present judiciary, among them Arthur Vanderbilt, a prime mover behind the 1947 Constitutional Convention, and Nathan Jacobs, who provided the blueprint for the modern State Supreme Court. Others in the select group were the future judges Alfred Clapp, Milton Conford and Joseph Weintraub.
        Mr. Schnitzer was a drafter of the model judiciary article that in large part became Article VI of the 1947 New Jersey Constitution. It created a unified and politically independent court system to replace the system of local and regional judges who were vulnerable to political pressures.
        He was the original author of the collection of court rules now being updated and annotated annually by one of his students, Sylvia Pressler, presiding justice of the Appellate Division. The rules for practice and procedure provide guidance to the members of the unified trial courts.
        A native of Newark, Mr. Schnitzer graduated from New York University and from Harvard Law School in 1933.
        At his death he was of counsel to the firm of Connell, Foley & Geiser in Roseland, N.J., carrying on civil litigation and appellate practice. He also was a member of the editorial board of the New Jersey Law Journal for the last 49 years.
        He is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Betsy Grossman; a daughter, Sandra S. Stern of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, Stephen, of Livingston; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      