
        The Rev. W. Awdry, author of the internationally known ''Thomas the Tank Engine'' series of children's books, died on Friday at his home in Stroud, Gloucestershire, England. He was 85 and had been bedridden for some time.
        Wilbert Vere Awdry, an Anglican minister, wrote the first story about Thomas in 1943, creating a cheerful but scrappy bright blue steam engine whose ambition in life was to be a ''really useful engine.'' Each adventure, set in rural prewar England, on the imaginary Isle of Sodor, contained a clear moral and social lesson like the dangers of bragging or the welcome information that rain is nothing to be afraid of. The stories were also populated by Thomas's fellow steam engines, including Percy, James, Edward, Donald and Douglas.
        According to The Times of London, the stories were recorded only because Mr. Awdry's son Christopher ''insisted on accurate repetition'' of the bedtime stories that his father told him every night, so the minister wrote them down, ''accompanied with scribbled faces on the engine smokeboxes.''
        Mr. Awdry's wife is said to have noticed the stories written on the backs of circulars and had them sent to a literary agent. Mr. Awdry wrote 26 of the stories before Christopher Awdry took over the series. The elder Mr. Awdry's work was honored with the Order of the British Empire in 1996.
        ''Thomas the Tank Engine'' first gained widespread fame in the United States in early 1989 when PBS made the stories the basis of a new children's television series, ''Shining Time Station.'' Narrated by an 18-inch-tall character, Mr. Conductor (played first by Ringo Starr, then by the comedian George Carlin), Thomas's television adventures were taken directly from Mr. Awdry's texts. The original illustrations, which employed vivid colors and pastoral settings, were re-created by filming model trains against theatrical-set backgrounds. The television show had begun as ''Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends'' on ITV, the British commercial network, in 1984.
        By the early 1990's, the Emmy Award-winning American series was one of Public Broadcasting's three most popular shows among children ages 2 to 5, or, as one observer put it, ''something of a toddler cult.'' (The other two series were ''Barney and Friends'' and ''Sesame Street.'') ''Shining Time Station'' was shown on weekdays and Sundays on more than 250 PBS stations nationwide and is still on the PBS schedule. As Christmas 1991 approached, the best and worst happened: stores ran short of Thomas the Tank Engine merchandise and parents frantically searched for their children's favorites; some 2,000 products based on the characters are now licensed.
        Mr. Awdry never completely comprehended the fame or popularity of the characters he had created. Christopher Awdry's wife, Diana, told The Times of London, ''He never really understood it, but he was certainly very pleased with the success.''
        In addition to his son Christopher, Mr. Awdry, who was a widower, is survived by two children and seven grandchildren.
        A longtime enthusiast of full-size, nontalking trains, Mr. Awdry was involved with several rail preservation groups. One of them, the Dean Forest Railway Company, reopened a line in Gloucestershire and named one of its three steam locomotives Wilbert in his honor. He returned the honor by making ''Wilbert the Forest Engine'' the subject and title of a ''Thomas the Tank Engine'' story. The last book Mr. Awdry wrote was ''Thomas's Christmas Party,'' in 1984.
        Many of his fellow Anglican clergymen were fascinated with steam trains, the author noted, and he had his own explanation for the clergy's attraction to trains. ''Both parties,'' he said, ''are still the best means of getting people to their destination.''
      