
        Jon Stone, the Emmy Award-winning writer, producer and director who helped create ''Sesame Street'' and such beloved characters as Cookie Monster, Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan.
        His daughter Polly said the cause of death was complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
        In the course of a career in television that began in 1955 in a CBS training program, he won 18 Emmy Awards for his achievements as a producer, director and writer.
        In 1968 he helped bring Jim Henson, the creator of the Muppets, and Joe Raposo, who became the music director, into the ''Sesame Street'' family when it was assembled by Joan Ganz Cooney, a founder of the Children's Television Workshop.
        Mr. Stone wrote the pilot script for ''Sesame Street.'' He was the original head writer and one of the three original producers of the program, and he remained its principal director until last year. He served for many years as the executive producer of the show, which was first broadcast by PBS on Nov. 10, 1969.
        ''His reputation was that he was probably the most brilliant writer of children's television material in America,'' Ms. Cooney said yesterday as she recalled how she lured Mr. Stone, then 36, out of retirement in Vermont to help create the show.  He had earlier been a producer of ''Captain Kangaroo'' for CBS.
        Frank Oz, the film maker and Muppeteer who has been with ''Sesame Street'' from its start, described Mr. Stone as ''the major creative force'' of the show from its inception. Mr. Stone created the format and setting and, in collaboration with Mr. Henson, invented many favorite Muppets, including Big Bird and Cookie Monster.
        He was also the producer, director and writer of a variety of projects involving ''Sesame Street'' characters, including ''Big Bird in China,'' a 1983 special that won both an Emmy and an award from the Writer's Guild of America for outstanding achievement in children's television, and another gentle travelogue, ''Big Bird in Japan,'' in 1989. He also wrote ''Sex and Violence With the Muppets,'' the pilot for what became Mr. Henson's popular ''Muppet Show.''
        Mr. Stone called ''Big Bird in China'' an extension of the philosophy that called for ''Sesame Street'' to be more than a children's show. ''We set out to make a show that children and adults could watch together, and children could ask questions,'' he said.
        He was also an author of children's books, including ''The Monster at the End of This Book,'' a Muppet-based tale starring the self-proclaimed lovable, furry old Grover. The book has sold more than 10 million copies since it was published by Little Golden Books in 1971. Last year, ''Another Monster at the End of This Book,'' also by Mr. Stone, was published.
        Mr. Stone was born in New Haven, one of three children of Grace E. and Emerson L. Stone, a nurse and doctor. He was a graduate of the Pomfret School in Pomfret, Conn., and hoped to become an actor when he graduated from Williams College in 1952. He received a master's degree from the Yale University School of Drama in 1955.
        In addition to his daughter Polly, of Manhattan, he is survived by another daughter, Kate, of Dubois, Wyo.; a brother, Emerson, of Greenwich, Conn., and a sister, Diana, of Fort Lee, N.J.
      