
        Joseph F. Sullivan, a former New Jersey bureau chief for The New York Times and a political reporter who covered the administrations of seven New Jersey governors, died yesterday at University Hospital in Newark.
        Mr. Sullivan, who was 66 and lived in Wall Township, suffered a heart attack on Thursday night, a month after undergoing a liver transplant, said his daughter Patricia.
        When Mr. Sullivan began his career as a reporter with The Newark Evening News in 1955, the Garden State Parkway had just opened, the New Jersey Turnpike was a year old and the state's population, now nearly 8 million, was 4.8 million.
        In the years that followed, Mr. Sullivan roamed the state for stories. From the State House in Trenton, Mr. Sullivan reported on Governors from Robert B. Meyner to Christine Todd Whitman, the legislative upheavals of school financing and the imposition of a state income tax.
        Primarily known for political coverage, Mr. Sullivan was also assigned to major legal contests. One was the right-to-die case of Karen Ann Quinlan, a young woman whose hopelessly comatose condition led her parents into a legal battle to disconnect her from a respirator. In 1976, the State Supreme Court ruled in her parents' favor, though she remained alive for nine more years.
        But politics was his specialty, and when he retired in 1995, Mr. Sullivan took with him rich memories of the rough-and-tumble heyday of the Hudson County Democratic bosses like Frank Hague and John V. Kenny. He recalled Mr. Hague's summoning of a straying husband to his office at the request of an unhappy wife and reminding the man that his taxes seemed a bit low and his job could be in jeopardy. ''Now it seems to me,'' Mr. Sullivan recalled Mr. Hague saying, ''that to be on the safe side you might consider some changes. Wouldn't you say?''
        Mr. Sullivan remembered the time Mayor Thomas Gangemi of Jersey City decided to go to Italy to bring back the designated marshal for the Columbus Day Parade. When the Mayor applied for a passport, it was revealed that he was not a citizen. He was forced to leave office.
        And Mr. Sullivan recalled the St. Patrick's Day parade at which Gov. Brendan T. Byrne said he learned that anger over the income tax was subsiding. ''People were waving at me with all five fingers,'' the Governor said.
        Mr. Sullivan, who started his career covering local news in a suburban bureau of The Newark Evening News, joined The Times when The News closed in 1971.
        Mr. Sullivan was born in Jersey City and graduated from St. Peter's College there. He became a reporter after two years of Army service.
        He is survived by seven children: Patricia, of Wall Township; Richard, of Brick Township; Joseph, of Asbury; Kevin, of Manasquan; Kathleen, of Manasquan; Maureen, of Howell Township, and John, of Boston. His wife, Jane, died in 1988.
      