
        Heberto Castillo Martinez, a civil engineer, an advocate of workers' rights and an opposition politician who helped pioneer the movement to make Mexico a modern democracy, died here on Saturday. He was 68.
        Mr. Castillo died of heart failure, according to a statement from the Party of the Democratic Revolution, a party he helped forge. He had been hospitalized since suffering a heart attack on March 20.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Castillo was a Senator and a member of the congressional commission mediating peace talks between the Government and leftist guerrillas in the southern state of Chiapas.
        The death of Mr. Castillo, a tall man with a shock of white hair, produced expressions of grief and respect from prominent Mexicans. It also brought a rare encounter between President Ernesto Zedillo and the opposition leaders seeking to end six decades of political dominance by the governing party. Mr. Zedillo arrived unannounced at a ceremony honoring Mr. Castillo on Saturday.
        ''He was a great Mexican,'' Mr. Zedillo told Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the head of Mr. Castillo's party, and Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, who ran against Mr. Zedillo in 1994 and was one of Mr. Castillo's closest associates. ''You have my condolences.''
        As a civil engineer, Mr. Castillo invented a way of constructing of large buildings that helps them to endure earthquakes. Many Mexican buildings use the system.
        Born on Aug. 23, 1928, in the state of Veracruz on the Gulf of Mexico, Mr. Castillo, the son of a mule driver, later studied engineering at Mexico's Autonomous University in the country's capital and from 1949 to 1968 taught mathematics and physics there.
        His political activism dated to the early 1950's, when Mr. Cardenas, who was his student at the university, introduced him to Mr. Cardenas's father, Gen. Lazaro Cardenas. As Mexico's President in the 1930's, General Cardenas nationalized the country's oilfields. He guided the country's leftist causes for decades.
        In 1954 Mr. Castillo protested against the United States-sponsored coup in Guatemala. In 1961, encouraged by General Cardenas, Mr. Castillo joined with the writer Carlos Fuentes and other prominent intellectuals to forge the National Liberation Movement, a grouping that challenged the rightward drift of Mexico's Government.
        As a professor, Mr. Castillo was a prominent leader of university protests in 1968 that gained wide support among Mexico's fledgling middle class before soldiers firing machine guns crushed the movement in a massacre that left hundreds of protesters dead. Mr. Castillo was jailed from 1968 to 1971.
        In 1977 he founded the Party of the Mexican Workers, which a decade later changed its name to the Mexican Socialist Party and nominated him for President in 1988. But Mr. Castillo withdrew his candidacy to support Cuauhtemoc Cardenas.
        When the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party's candidate, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, was proclaimed President after balloting that was widely believed to be fraudulent, Mr. Castillo and Mr. Cardenas helped found the Party of the Democratic Revolution.
        In 1994 the United States denied Mr. Castillo a visa to travel to Cornell University, which had invited him to speak about engineering. Mr. Castillo attributed the ban to Washington's continuing suspicion of Latin American leftists even after the end of the cold war.
        Long after he began devoting most of his time to politics, Mr. Castillo maintained a keen interest in science, and at times his theories aroused controversy.
        Seeking ways to alleviate Mexico City's choking air pollution, Mr. Castillo once proposed blasting away at the mountains that ring the city to allow the metropolis's noxious fumes to escape. He also proposed erecting a series of gigantic fans to blow pollutants away.
        Mr. Castillo is survived by his wife, Maria Teresa Juarez Carranza, a teacher; a daughter, Laura Itzel, a spokeswoman for the Party of the Democratic Revolution, and three sons, Heberto, Javier and Hector.
      