
        Henry Baldwin Hyde, a New York lawyer and onetime American spymaster who helped pave the way for the Allied landings in France, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 82.
        He suffered a lengthy illness, his family said.
        Mr. Hyde was a crucial player in the World War II team assembled by Maj. Gen. William J. Donovan, the ''Wild Bill'' Donovan of O.S.S. fame. General Donovan was the architect of the Office of Strategic Services and ''father'' of the Central Intelligence Agency that grew from it; Mr. Hyde served as his chief of intelligence in France and later in Switzerland.
        He was the spymaster of Operation Penny Farthing, one of the most successful skeins woven by American intelligence in the thick of war. His exploits were detailed in ''Piercing the Third Reich'' by Joseph Persico, and ''The Last Hero: Wild Bill Donovan'' by Anthony Cave Brown.
        Mr. Hyde's upbringing in France had afforded him an unusually suitable background, along with fluency in French and German. He was heading the French desk of the O.S.S. in Algiers when General Donovan picked him to engineer Penny Farthing. His job was to recruit, brief and equip agents, select drop points and coordinate secret radio links with O.S.S. operatives in France.
        He hired agents from origins as divergent as socialist anarchism and -- closer to his own ilk -- the upper reaches of French nobility. After training them in London, he smuggled them into France and collected their gleanings.
        The Penny Farthing network produced accurate information on German troop movements and helped the American high command plan and execute the landings in the south of France and Normandy. Mr. Hyde's conduct earned him two Bronze Stars, and the French Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre.
        A citation signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt applauded him for the many listening posts he had managed to operate in occupied France. Data provided by them, the President noted, ''contributed materially to the success, not only of the United States Seventh Army in South France, but also of the Allied Armies in Northern France.''
        After V.E.-Day, Mr. Hyde replaced Allen Dulles as the O.S.S. station chief in Switzerland. He returned to the practice of international law in New York in 1947, more recently as a partner in Wormser, Kiely, Galef & Jacobs. At his death he was of counsel to the firm.
        His clients included figures from society, the medical profession and the entertainment business. He was an original director of the William J. Donovan Memorial Foundation, a director and vice president of the French Institute-Alliance Francaise, and an honorary trustee of the Hospital for Special Surgery.
        Henry Hyde was born in Paris to a socialite couple, James Hazen Hyde and Marthe Leishman Hyde, whose glittering circle of friends ran the gamut from composers to spies and inspired his penchant for art -- and intrigue. He was also the grandson and namesake of the founder and first president of the Equitable Life Insurance Company.
        He was educated at Charterhouse School and Trinity College in Cambridge and the University of Bonn, and received his law degree from Harvard. He set up practice in New York, where Allen Dulles found him for the O.S.S. in 1942.
        Mr. Hyde is survived by his wife of 36 years, Liza Piper Hyde; two daughters from an earlier marriage, Lorna Hyde de Wangen of Manhattan and Isabel Hyde Jasinowski of Washington; two stepdaughters, Anastasia Piper of Manhattan and Kelly Piper of Beverly Hills, Calif.; three grandchildren, and three stepgrandchildren. His first marriage, to the late Marie de la Grange Hyde, ended in divorce.
      