
        Travis Bogard, an author, teacher and one of the foremost scholars on the life and work of Eugene O'Neill, died on Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was a stroke, said Betty Connors, a friend.
        Mr. Bogard, who for many years was a professor of English and drama at the University of California at Berkeley, devoted himself to analyzing and commenting on O'Neill and was recognized as an expert on the playwright. Before his retirement in 1987, he was chairman of the drama department at Berkeley.
        He edited the three-volume ''Complete Plays'' of O'Neill for the Library of America series, ''Selected Letters of Eugene O'Neill'' (with Jackson R. Bryer) and ''The Unknown O'Neill,'' among other books. In ''Contour in Time: The Plays of Eugene O'Neill,'' he wrote of the playwright's use of autobiography: ''With a bold directness of approach, he drew a figure whose face resembled his own, and whose exterior life barely concealed a passionate, questing inner existence.''
        Mr. Bogard wrote introductory essays to ''The Theater We Worked for: The Letters of Eugene O'Neill to Kenneth Macgowan'' and edited ''The Eugene O'Neill Songbook,'' which collated the music used in the playwright's work. As a member of the Eugene O'Neill Foundation, Mr. Bogard was instrumental in saving Tao House, O'Neill's home in Danville, Calif., where the playwright wrote ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' and ''The Iceman Cometh.''
        To raise money to purchase and preserve the property, Mr. Bogard invited Jason Robards to give a benefit performance of ''Hughie'' in California. In a prefatory letter to Mr. Bogard's ''From the Silence of Tao House: Essays about Eugene and Carlotta O'Neill and the Tao House Plays,'' Mr. Robards said that the collection of essays exemplified Mr. Bogard's ''appreciation of the genius of America's greatest playwright.''
        Mr. Bogard was born in San Francisco. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley and Princeton University and then taught for a year at Yale University. After serving in the United States Army during World War II, he returned to Berkeley, where he remained for his academic career.
        He is survived by a son, John, of Gerlach, Nev.; a daughter, Sarah, of Reno, Nev., and two grandsons.
      