
        Gino P. Santi, a Brooklyn-born Air Force engineer who developed the modern pilot ejection system, died on Thursday at a hospice near his home in Dayton, Ohio. He was 81 and had spent most of his career at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base there.
        His wife, Dorothy, said the cause was bone cancer.
        Almost from the moment man first began to fly planes, people started wondering how to get back down to earth in one piece when things went seriously wrong with the machines.
        Parachutes were an obvious solution, and easy enough to use when a pilot could step out on the wing of an open cockpit and leap free of a slow-moving craft. But as planes got faster and closed cockpits became the norm, a combat pilot would often not have enough time to remove the canopy, hoist himself out of his seat and jump before crashing.
        And even when he did have time, if the powerful centrifugal forces created as the plane spun out of control did not pin him to his seat, he was likely to be killed or seriously injured when the tail section of his own plane slammed into him or fouled his parachute lines. Those fates that befell more than half those who bailed out of planes in World War II.
        Although a prototype system to hurl a pilot free of the cockpit was developed as early as 1910, it was not until the 1930's that work began in earnest on ejection systems.
        In part perhaps because Mr. Santi was still in college, studying for  bachelor's and master's degrees in civil engineering at City College, some of the early technology seemed almost quixotic: a behind-the-seat pusher, for example, that pilots dubbed the meat grinder because it tended to push them through the propellers.
        Then there was the Howard Hughes solution. His mammoth wooden Spruce Goose was equipped with a device to fling a pilot down through a hatch, hardly the direction of choice for a low-flying combat pilot in distress.
        The Germans developed an explosive catapult system in World War II, but the explosion often killed pilots or broke their backs. Almost as soon as he went to work on the problem for the Air Force in 1947, Mr. Santi, who had become familiar with aviation engineering during four years with the forerunner of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, came up with his first breakthrough, the use of a controlled explosion that gave the pilot less of a jolt even as it hurled him higher than the German version had.
        Mr. Santi's work at Wright was carried on in secrecy lest word of his approach leak out to the enemy: the Navy, which was also working on ejection systems. Millions of future development dollars were at stake, and when the Air Force won the race when the Santi system was perfected in 1949, the Navy somewhat churlishly adopted a British system.
        Over the next decades, Mr. Santi, who served two stints of active duty but spent most of his career as a civilian employee of the Air Force, continued to improve the ejection system for use on increasingly fast jet planes, often by overcoming confirmed skeptics with solutions that left them scratching their heads in wonder.
        Among other things, he developed the use of the rocket to propel ejection seats and insisted on a design that would eject a pilot safely from the ground, an audacious goal he achieved in part by having the parachute unfurl as the pilot was hurtling upward.
        His later designs included automated electrical systems, in which the operations of the complex ejection system vary with air speed and altitude.
        One of Mr. Santi's most startling achievements was the development of an instant ejection system in which the pilot is catapulted safely through the canopy, a development so advanced that it was even adopted by the Navy, whose carrier pilots often do not have time to wait for the canopy to be blown away.
        Although his last project, a 1978 modification, is still the Air Force standard, Mr. Santi did not always see the full potential of his inventions, like the rapid-inflation air bag he developed in the 1950's to separate a pilot from his seat, long before it became an automotive safety staple.
        For all his work on futuristic systems, at home Mr. Santi was a meticulous handyman who kept his sights firmly on the past. His wife, for example, is still using what may well be the nation's oldest operational washer-dryer, but, as she noted yesterday, she no longer drives the 1963 Pontiac station wagon Mr. Santi kept running for close to 25 years.
        ''I wrecked it,'' she said.
        In addition to his wife he is survived by a son, Victor, of Dayton; four daughters, Janice Shandera of Lincolnville, Me., Martha Heil of Fairfield, Ohio, Linda Roth of Cincinnati and Laura Santi of Columbia, Md.; a sister, Ismene Lindsey of New Milford, N.J., and 11 grandchildren.
      