
        Lawrence A. Appley, a Methodist minister's son who served on the boards of 35 corporations and for almost 45 years preached the gospel of quality management in corporate life and Government service, died on  Friday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was two weeks short of his 93d birthday.
        Mr. Appley was most visible from 1948 to 1968, when he was president of the American Management Association, the world's biggest and oldest management education organization. From 1968 until 1974 he was chairman of the association's board.
        In speeches intended to drum home that old-time management religion, which Mr. Appley likened to the golden rule, he argued that skill in human relations was even more important to the success of the modern corporation than technological skill was. Sometimes traveling 150,000 miles a year by airplane, often accompanied by his first wife, Ruth G. Wilson, Mr. Appley argued, ''To inspire a person to work with enthusiasm is to make a very important contribution to that person's life.''
        These were among other Appley precepts:
        *''If you want somebody to perform a task for you, you must place into his mind a clear image of what you want him to do.''
        *''We must develop people so they will use their potential in full, whether in character, personality or productivity.''
        *''A company should be run as a football team where everybody knows what he is supposed to do. As for the coach -- leadership requires followership. But you cannot order it, you must win it.''
        Born in Nyack, N.Y., on April 22, 1904, Mr. Appley was raised in primarily small rural villages, where his father was preaching. He helped work his way through Mount Herman School for Boys in Massachusetts, then attended Ohio Wesleyan University on a scholarship available to ministers' sons. He held various jobs, including a summer one as a New York streetcar conductor, to help pay for college, but he dropped out in his sophomore year to earn money teaching the eight grades of a one-room, 35-student elementary school in Mahopac Mines, N.Y. Returning to Ohio Wesleyan, he finished a year early, graduating in 1927.
        After three years as an instructor at Colgate University, he held executive positions with the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, the Vick Chemical Company and Montgomery Ward  & Company. He later served on the boards of all three, as well as on that of Nabisco and other major corporations, and was a trustee of Ohio Wesleyan, American University, Colgate University and Cazenovia College.
        He was awarded Doctor of Law degrees from Ohio Wesleyan, Colgate, St. Lawrence University and Bethany College.
        From 1938 to 1941, while still on the staff of Socony-Vacuum, based in New York, Mr. Appley was an adviser to the United States Civil Service Commission on administrative organization, traveling regularly to Washington to lecture to Government administrators on personnel problems.
        In 1941 he moved to Washington as a consultant to the Secretary of War on civilian and personnel training, and in 1942 was appointed director of the placement bureau of the War Manpower Commission. In 1946, President Harry Truman awarded him the Presidential Medal of Merit.
        Mr. Appley is survived by Katherine Appley, his second wife; two daughters, Ann Appley of Pasadena, Calif., and Judith Grutter Schatz of South Lake Tahoe, Calif.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandaughters.
      