
        Alejo Peralta Diaz, a pioneering figure in Mexico's industrial development who became a confidant of presidents and one of the country's wealthiest entrepreneurs, died here on Tuesday of heart failure. He was 80.
        Mr. Peralta had undergone heart surgery four times since 1992, and was undergoing new treatments at Mexico City's Hospital Ingles when he died.
        At his death, Mr. Peralta was president of Industrias Unidas Sociedad Anonima, known as IUSA, a vast conglomerate that originally specialized in electrical supplies but today produces everything from ballpoint pens to digital equipment. The conglomerate controls more than 100 companies, employing some 17,000 workers.
        Forbes magazine estimated the Peralta family fortune last year at $2.5 billion.
        Mr. Peralta was the archetype of the class of businessmen born during the Mexican revolution who rose to industrialize the country over the following decades by working closely with and obtaining lucrative concessions from successive presidents and the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party.
        ''I've lived as I wanted to live,'' Mr. Peralta said in 1992.
        In 1989, Mr. Peralta founded Iusacell, a cellular telephone company, and he later forged an alliance with Bell Atlantic. Mr. Peralta remained at his death Iusacell's chairman, although Bell Atlantic exercises management control.
        Born May 5, 1916, in the state capital of Puebla, Mr. Peralta graduated from the National Polytechnic Institute in 1935, and he founded IUSA three years later, focusing on the production of switches and other electrical products.
        Mr. Peralta's business empire expanded significantly during World War II, when he forged a friendship with President Manuel Avila Camacho, and picked up speed during the postwar presidency of Miguel Aleman Valdes, another close friend of the young industrialist, during whose tenure the country experienced years of rapid industrial development known as the Mexican miracle.
        In 1956, President Adolfo Ruiz Cortines named Mr. Peralta director of the National Polytechnic Institute, Mr. Peralta's alma mater. He governed the institute with an authoritarian hand, calling in bayonet-wielding soldiers to disperse a student strike that broke out months after his appointment.
        A dozen years later, Mr. Peralta participated alongside another President, Gustavo Diaz Ordaz, in the planning of the Government's bloody response to student and middle-class protests in the Tlatelolco sector of Mexico City in 1968, in which soldiers fired machine guns at crowds, killing hundreds, Mr. Peralta said in the 1992 interview.
        ''At the moment that these things happen, you feel bitterness; you feel bad that there were so many victims, but over time you understand that this was necessary,'' he said.
        Throughout Mr. Peralta's life he pursued an enthusiasm for baseball, playing professionally in the late 1930's for the Veracruz Azules and in 1955 founding one of Mexico's most important teams, the Mexico City Tigres. In 1983, he entered Mexico's Baseball Hall of Fame. The news of his death was handled most extensively by the sports segments of Mexico's main television news channels.
        Mr. Peralta's oldest son, Carlos, the current vice president of IUSA, has been surrounded by controversy since he asserted last year that he had lent $50 million to Raul Salinas de Gortari, who is the older brother of the former President of Mexico and who is imprisoned here on murder and corruption charges.
        Mr. Peralta is survived by his wife, Maria Quintero de Peralta, and five of the couple's seven children: Eugenio, Carlos, Maria del Carmen, Leticia and Laura. Two other sons, Alejo and Ernesto, are deceased.
      