
        Gerald Edward Gaull, a pediatrician whose research on the development of the human brain prompted the addition to baby formulas of a vital ingredient of mother's milk, died April 2 while vacationing in Quito, Ecuador. He was 66 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Gaull's research was instrumental in showing that babies raised on formula and cow's milk failed to get the many benefits of human milk and were more likely to be underweight and sickly than breast-fed infants. Dr. Gaull was able to identify one ingredient absent from prevailing synthetic formulas, the amino acid taurine.
        Taurine turned out to be a vital building block of protein, with a substantial role in brain development. In 1981, Dr. Gaull was awarded a patent governing the commercial use of taurine. At the time he was working at the New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities in Staten Island, a unit of the Department of Mental Hygiene.
        Once taurine came into standard use in formulas, Dr. Gaull, joined by the state, sued two of the major makers of infant formula in 1990, charging patent infringement. He won the case and had been sharing royalties with New York State, his son Erik said on Tuesday.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Gaull was the director of the Center for Food and Nutrition Policy at Georgetown University, a research center he founded in 1992. He was on both the medical and public policy faculties at Georgetown, teaching courses in biotechnology and nutrition.
        Dr. Gaull also founded the Ceres Forum in Washington, which periodically brings together policy makers and experts from agriculture and industry to exchange ideas.
        Gerald Gaull was born in Boston and graduated from the University of Michigan. He received his M.D. from Boston University and trained at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Harvard University Medical School and Babies Hospital of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
        He went to work for New York State in 1967. Three years later, he was a co-author of a study determining that bottle-fed premature babies needed dietary supplements of the amino acid cystine. Like taurine, cystine is a critical protein builder contained in breast milk. Although full-term infants are able to produce the substance themselves, premature babies cannot.
        While in New York, Dr. Gaull also held faculty positions at Columbia University, Mount Sinai Medical School and Rockefeller University. From 1984 to 1992, he was vice president for nutritional sciences at the Nutrasweet division of the Monsanto Company in Deerfield, Ill.
        Dr. Gaull was the author or co-author of some 200 articles and editor or co-editor of seven textbooks. His honors included the Borden Award of the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Gold Medal of St. Ambrosiano of the City of Milan.
        Besides his son Erik, a Washington resident, Dr. Gaull's survivors include his wife, Florence McSherry Heffernan Gaull; another son, Stephen, of Sao Paulo, Brazil, and a sister, Rosalie G. Silberman, also of Washington.
      