
        Toshiro Mayuzumi, an eclectic Japanese composer who combined traditional Japanese music, neo-Romantic orchestration and electronic and avant-garde techniques in his ballet, film scores, theater works and symphonic pieces, died yesterday at a hospital in Kawasaki, near Tokyo. He was 68 and lived in Tokyo.
        The cause was liver failure, according to The Associated Press.
        Mr. Mayuzumi was one of a handful of Japanese composers whose music found a supportive audience in the United States and Europe beginning in the 1950's. His eclecticism yielded a large and varied catalogue of works. His ''XYZ'' is said to have been the first Japanese work using the electronic tape manipulation techniques of musique concrete. His faux-primitive, Stravinsky-inspired orchestral score for ''The Bible,'' John Huston's Hollywood epic, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1965.
        Works like ''Bugaku'' (composed for the New York City Ballet in 1962) and ''Showa Tenpyoraku''(1970) evoked the sound of ancient Japanese court music. (The latter used a traditional gagaku ensemble.) And several of his works drew on Buddhist chants and sacred texts.
        Mr. Mayuzumi's first international success was his ''Nirvana'' Symphony (1958), a transfixing, rhythmically vital work for an orchestra expanded with extra winds and brass, and a 12-part male chorus that sang various forms of Buddhist chant. Among his more recent works were ''Kinkakuji'' (''The Temple of the Golden Pavilion''), an opera, based on a Yukio Mishima novel, that had its premiere in Berlin in 1976 and was performed at the New York City Opera in 1995, and ''Kojiki,'' which had its premiere in Austria last year. His works were regularly featured in concerts presented in Manhattan by Music from Japan.
        Mr. Mayuzumi was born in Yokohama in 1929 and studied at the National University of Fine Arts and Music in Tokyo from 1945 to 1951. He spent a year at the Paris Conservatory, where he was strongly influenced by the work of Olivier Messiaen and Pierre Boulez. Fascinated by the electronic music experimentation, Serial techniques and chance music he heard in Paris, he incorporated such elements into his works when he returned to Japan. He quickly established a reputation as an adventurous composer willing to try new techniques in virtually every work.
        In addition to composing, Mr. Mayuzumi was the host of ''Concert Without a Name,'' a television program that ran for 30 years, and produced a documentary, ''The Birth and Death of Japanese Music,'' in 1968. He was also active in political causes and was often criticized for nationalistic views similar to those held by his friend and sometime collaborator Mishima.
      