
        Lyman Spitzer Jr., a visionary theoretician of astrophysics and plasma physics who inspired the Hubble Space Telescope and an array of orbiting observatories now tracking X-ray emissions and assorted other heavenly phenomena, died on Monday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 82.
        The cause was heart disease, according to Princeton University, his intellectual home for five decades.
        Dr. Spitzer shepherded the immense Hubble project from its inception, as a glimpse in his mind's eye in 1947, to liftoff from Cape Canaveral, Fla., in 1990. He similarly served as the catalyst and principal investigator of the Copernicus Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, an important ultraviolet precursor of Hubble that NASA launched in 1972.
        And he was a pioneer in the effort, unsuccessful so far, to use nuclear fusion as a clean and limitless source of energy. Dr. Spitzer was the founding director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, where he was the founding director.
        Working in his Princeton office until the day he died, Dr. Spitzer concentrated on subjects like interstellar matter, the dynamics of stellar systems, space astronomy and plasma physics. His interests encompassed all aspects of astronautics. He had urged the launching of an earth satellite as early as 1947.
        That was the year Princeton recruited Dr. Spitzer from Yale University and appointed him professor of astronomy, chairman of the department and director of its astronomical observatory. Five years later, he was appointed the Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy, a post he held until 1982.
        In 1954, Dr. Spitzer proposed a ''logical next step'' in astronomy, a space observation point 500 miles above the earth. From that vantage, he estimated, precision instruments could record and photograph astronomical phenomena exactly and without bothersome earthly interference or atmospherics.
        The fledgling concept was tested three years later with Project Stratoscope, in which balloons carried cameras up 20 miles. After that, Dr. Spitzer directed the construction of a satellite at Princeton with a 24-inch telescope to study individual stars, as well as a spectrograph to analyze elements in the stars and in interstellar space.
        But his crowning legacy was the Hubble Space Telescope, which can peer into the deepest reaches of space. His advocacy won over his peers and buoyed the $2.1 billion project through repeated delays.
        It was the most complex and costliest undertaking in unmanned space study. It represented big science, conducted by battalions of scientists, engineers and technicians amid fierce competition and bureaucratic encumbrances.
        But at liftoff, those involved feted Dr. Spitzer as the Hubble's intellectual and political father. Robert W. Smith, a historian at the National Air and Space Museum, said his ''involvement in arguing for, justifying and then helping to develop the space telescope stretches back longer than the commitment of anyone else.''
        Since then, NASA's window on space has been joined by American and Italian X-ray satellites, the European Infrared Space Observatory and NASA's Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer and Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, among others.
        Princeton University recently published ''Dreams, Stars and Electrons: Selected Writings of Lyman Spitzer Jr.''
        ''Spitzer has chosen big problems to work on,'' Princeton's provost, Jeremiah P. Ostriker, his successor as the Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy, wrote in an introduction, ''and somehow, for him, complexities unravel and the fundamental simplicities become apparent.''
        In the 1950's, Dr. Spitzer directed fusion research carried out at Princeton for the Atomic Energy Commission. Princeton's contribution grew from Dr. Spitzer's suggestion that the fusion of heavy hydrogen atoms might be harnessed for peaceful uses.
        For that research, he was given a new workplace, Princeton's Plasma Physics Laboratory, built in 1956. There, he invented the Stellarator, an early effort to compress and heat electrically charged gas to a point at which fusion begins.
        Dr. Spitzer's expensive contraption, vacuum tubes surrounded by coils, was one of several fusion devices whose early promise have yet to come to fruition. But a modified version of the Stellarator was adapted in the 1980's for a new generation of complex reactors with which physicists on both sides of the Atlantic are trying to replicate the process that makes the sun shine.
        Another of Dr. Spitzer's visions in 1963 predicted the discovery of a cloud of superhot gas surrounding the Milky Way Galaxy. His prediction was confirmed in 1979 by astronomers at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. The discovery presaged important advances in astronomy and a better understanding of quasars, the mysterious bright objects that may lie near the fringes of the universe.
        Dr. Spitzer played a leading role in the development of sonar in World War II as a scientist with the Division of War Research at Columbia University and director of a sonar analysis group.
        Lyman Spitzer was born in Toledo, Ohio, the son of a paper-box manufacturer. From Phillips Andover Academy, he went to Yale, where he was chairman of The Yale Daily News before graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1935.
        He studied at Cambridge University before receiving his master's from Princeton and a Ph.D. in astrophysics in 1937. Before his wartime work, he lectured at Harvard and Yale, where he returned briefly after the war as an associate professor of astrophysics.
        In 1979, President Jimmy Carter awarded Dr. Spitzer the National Medal of Science. The citation credited him with ''important contributions to the theory of star formation and evolving stellar systems and plasma physics, including use of fusion as a source of energy.''
        Dr. Spitzer was a past trustee of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute and president of the American Astronomical Society.
        After retiring as a professor, he was a senior research astronomer and delivered a paper at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland a few months ago. A Goddard astronomer and associate, Stephen P. Maran, said yesterday that Dr. Spitzer also continued to use the Hubble in his work.
        ''I have a weakness of character -- a fascination with the spectacular,'' Dr. Spitzer liked to say. ''But then I have a sort of theory about our weaknesses being our strengths.''
        Dr. Spitzer is survived by his wife of 57 years, Doreen Canaday Spitzer, an archeologist; a son, Nicholas C., of Del Mar, Calif.; three daughters, Dionis C. Griffin of Savannah, Ga., and Sarah S. Saul and Lydia S. Spitzer, both of Pomfret, N.H.; two sisters, Luette Eaton of Peterboro, N.H., and Lydia Rheinfrank of Perrysburg, Ohio; a brother, John, also of Perrysburg, and 10 grandchildren.
      