
        Irving J. Galpeer, a lawyer who served as a top enforcement official with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1930's and early 1940's, died April 3 at his home in Harwich, Mass., after a long illness. He was 87.
        While at the commission, Mr. Galpeer handled a series of fraud cases, as an investigator, litigator and later an administrator. These cases led to judicial rulings that helped define the investigative and regulatory powers of the commission, which was established by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. One of the cases, for example, established the S.E.C.'s right to examine brokerage firm records.
        Mr. Galpeer, a graduate of Harvard Law School in 1933, joined the legal enforcement staff of the S.E.C.'s New York regional office in 1935, and was assigned to an investigation of stock manipulation in shares of the A. O. Smith Corporation.
        Beginning in 1938, Mr. Galpeer headed an investigation into McKesson & Robbins, a complex case involving falsified bookkeeping, allegations of blackmail and the suicide of one of three brothers accused of having designed the fraud.
        McKesson & Robbins, the drug distribution company now known only as McKesson, was accused of inflating its inventories and its worth by creating fake companies using multiple bank accounts and false shipping bills, warehouse receipts and business letters. Mr. Galpeer uncovered the fictional companies when he found a scrap of paper that led him to the business printing company used by McKesson & Robbins.
        A major result of the case was a strengthening of the criteria that the S.E.C. demanded when certifying publicly traded companies. That result stemmed from a look into the audit procedures of Price Waterhouse during the 10 years in which it certified the financial statements of McKesson & Robbins. Mr. Galpeer presented the case for the S.E.C. in its public hearings.
        In 1942, Mr. Galpeer was promoted to principal attorney in charge of enforcement for the New York regional office, and three years later he was named assistant regional administrator. He left in 1946 to become a partner in Jaffin, Schneider, Kimmel & Galpeer in New York. He worked as a partner in two other New York firms and served in the ''of counsel'' capacity at Karp & Sommers until his retirement in 1994.
        Mr. Galpeer is survived by his wife, Lillian (Nicki) Jaffin Galpeer of Harwich, Mass.; two daughters, Nina Galpeer Danielson, also of Harwich, and Carla Galpeer Horton of Santa Monica, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      