
        John Francis Walsh, who served through turbulent times and four New York City police commissioners as the department's top uniformed commander in the 1960's, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A longtime resident of Whitestone, Queens, he was 93 and and had recently moved to Locust Valley, L.I.
        Mr. Walsh, a 40-year veteran of the force, was appointed by Police Commissioner Stephen P. Kennedy in  1961. He had an unusually long run as First Deputy Commissioner, retiring in 1970.
        ''During my five years as Mayor, no one has provided greater support in times of crisis,'' John V. Lindsay wrote him in a farewell letter. ''No one has shown more sensible judgment.''
        Mayor Lindsay lauded him for the ''leadership, skill and strength'' with which he had served all citizens ''in the best tradition of New York's finest.''
        But Mr. Walsh's tenure witnessed trouble in the department. There was the strain on a police force sometimes caught unprepared for the often-violent protests roiling streets and campuses over civil rights and the Vietnam war.
        And there was the specter of corruption dogging the department. While Mr. Walsh was responsible for rooting out such conduct, he had only a relative handful of employees at headquarters to investigate such charges.
        During the Knapp Commission investigations into corruption at the department, Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary in 1970 ordered the assignment of special anticorruption teams in each of the department's principal units. For Mr. Walsh, the change came too late.
        The final report of the Knapp Commission in 1972 took Mr. Walsh to task for having ignored specific corruption complaints from Federal investigators.
        Mr. Walsh was born in Harlem. A postal clerk, he joined the police force in 1930 because, among other things, the pay was better. For the first nine years, he pounded a beat on Manhattan's East Side.
        He advanced rapidly as the taciturn nemesis of corrupt patrolmen and detectives in Brooklyn and Manhattan and on Staten Island. In 1954, Commissioner Francis W. H. Adams promoted him to deputy chief inspector in charge of a special squad assigned to look into police dishonesty.
        In the following years, he headed the Commissioner's Confidential Squad and, though the work was just that, he surfaced in public now and then as the man leading a gambling raid.
        When he took the top uniformed post, he recalled that in 33 years on the force, he had never had reason to fire his revolver and had drawn it only once. ''I'm still a good shot, though,'' he said.
        Mr. Walsh's wife, Mary Ellen Scully Murphy, died in 1979. He is survived by four sons, Richard, of Fleischmanns, N.Y., John Jr., of Albany, the Rev. William Walsh, S.J., of Morristown, N.J., and James, of Titusville, Fla.; two daughters, Mary Sheedy of South Plainfield, N.J., and Ann Veprovsky of Locust Valley; two sisters, Sister Thomas Raymond Scully of Amityville, L.I., and Agnes Kelly of West Babylon, L.I.; 19 grandchildren, and 22 great-grandchildren.
      