
        Martin Schwarzschild, an astronomer who studied the structure and evolution of stars and who was the first to use a hot air balloon to carry a telescope into the stratosphere to take clearer pictures of the Sun, died on Thursday at St. Mary Medical Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 84. For the last three and a half years he had lived in Newtown, Pa.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Barbara.
        Dr. Schwarzschild was the Eugene Higgins Professor Emeritus of Astronomy at Princeton University, where he spent most of his professional life, and he was the second noted Princeton astronomer to die in as many weeks. He became a professor at Princeton in 1947, at the same time as Lyman Spitzer, an astrophysicist and former head of the university's astronomy department, who died on March 31.
        It was at a lunch with Dr. Spitzer and the physicist James A. Van Allen that Dr. Schwarzschild decided to undertake his boldest project. ''You astronomers are much too conservative,'' Dr. Van Allen reportedly told them. ''We physicists have been using balloons for years to hoist scientific instruments into the stratosphere. Surely, you have problems that could be solved by this technique.''
        Dr. Schwarzschild accepted the challenge when he created Project Stratoscope, an effort to conduct astronomical experiments with balloon-borne telescopes in the upper reaches of Earth's atmosphere. By lifting the telescopes to great heights, Dr. Schwarzschild hoped to be able to take photographs of the Sun and other stars free from atmospheric interference.
        On Sept. 25, 1957, Dr. Schwarzschild and his team launched a balloon in Minneapolis. It traveled 81,000 feet above the Earth and took photographs that were described as the sharpest and most detailed ever taken of the Sun and the great gas storms that swirl on its surface.
        Martin Schwarzschild was born on May 31, 1912, in Potsdam, Germany, where his father, Karl Schwarzschild, was director of the Astrophysical Observatory. But four years later, in World War I, Karl Schwarzschild died after returning home from the military with a rare skin disease.
        Astronomy became a passion that gave the son a glimpse of the father he never really knew. In the 1890's Karl Schwarzschild pioneered the use of photography as an astronomical tool, including the development of a method to measure the brightness of stars from a photographic plate. In the late 1940's Martin Schwarzschild was one of the first to use electronic digital computers for astronomical research.
        Martin Schwarzschild received his doctorate from the University of Gottingen, near Hanover, Germany. He conducted research at the University of Oslo in Norway, and was then offered a three-year post-doctoral fellowship at Harvard University.
        At Harvard he met Barbara Cherry, a graduate student in astronomy. They were married on Aug. 24, 1945, after Dr. Schwarzschild returned from service in the United States Army in World War II.
        After the war he taught at Columbia University, and then moved to Princeton in 1947. At Princeton he received numerous honors and awards, including election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1954 and to the National Academy of Sciences in 1956. He was president of the American Astronomical Society from 1970 to 1972.
        Dr. Schwarzschild retired from Princeton in 1979, but for several years continued to advise graduate students.
        He had recently shifted his academic focus to the dynamics of galaxies, doing theoretical research on his home computer. The only telescope he kept at his home was used for bird watching, his wife said.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a sister, Agathe Thornton of Dunedin, New Zealand.
      