
        Paul Henson, the telephone executive who built the first major fiber optic network, which improved sound quality so much that Sprint advertised you could hear a pin drop at the other end of the line, died in Palm Springs, Calif., on Saturday. He was 71.
        Mr. Henson died of complications from liver cancer, said Bill White, a spokesman for Sprint, the nation's No. 3 long-distance carrier. He had lived in Mission Hills, Kan.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Henson was the nonexecutive chairman of Kansas City Southern Industries, which owns the Janus and Neuberger mutual funds and the Kansas City Southern Railway.
        He retired in 1990 as chairman of United Telecommunications, a Kansas City company that changed its name to Sprint in 1992.
        United Telecommunications operated a tangle of little local telephone companies with a total of only 450,000 customers, and built its own equipment, when Mr. Henson became its president in 1964. Its revenue then totaled $65 million, which would swell to nearly $8 billion by the time he retired in 1990.
        A judge's order breaking up the Bell System created opportunities for long-distance competition just as fiber optics, which can carry many more calls than conventional cables and microwave systems, came along, said Thomas Nurnberger, a retired director of United Telecommunications and a former AT&T executive vice president.
        ''Fiber optic originated at Bell Labs,'' Mr. Nurnberger said. ''But AT&T only did small-scale testing of the concept, while Henson realized that building a fiber optic network would be a very good way of getting into the long-distance market and being able to promote much better quality sound.''
        When work on the 23,000-mile fiber optic network began in 1980, skeptics abounded. A stock analyst said that Mr. Henson was just bluffing, hoping that his talk of building a fiber optic network would scare off potential new entrants into long-distance service.
        At the time United Telecommunications had $2 billion in assets, and the network was to cost more than that. ''He bet the farm on the fiber optic network,'' Mr. Nurnberger said.
        It was not until 1989 that the long- distance business turned a profit, vindicating Mr. Henson.
        Paul Harry Henson grew up on a farm near Lincoln, Neb., and became a fighter pilot in the Army Air Corps  during World War II.
        He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering at the University of Nebraska, but started out in the telephone business as a warehouseman for Lincoln Telephone and Telegraph, where he rose to chief engineer.
        In 1959 he became a vice president of United Telecommunications, and was named president in 1964 and chairman two years later.
        He was chairman of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation in 1994 and 1995, when its assets grew from $200 million to $349 million, and a director of the Kansas City Symphony.
        In addition to his wife, Betty, he is survived by two daughters, Susan Flury of Omaha and Lizbeth Henson Barelli of Kansas City, Mo.; a sister, Irene Baker of Indianapolis; a brother, Clyde, of Lavaca, Ark., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 18, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Paul Henson, chairman of Kansas City Southern Industries, misidentified a mutual fund group owned by the company. It is the Berger mutual funds, not the Neuberger & Berman mutual funds.
      