
        Craig B. Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer with primary responsibility for product development, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River off Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Myrna Manners, a spokeswoman for New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he was taken after the crash.
        In his 28-year career at Colgate-Palmolive, a multinational consumer products manufacturer that is the world's largest seller of toothpaste, toothbrushes and deodorants, Mr. Tate served in a number of executive positions, including high posts in Europe, Asia and the United States. He opened the company's first manufacturing plant in China.
        As chief technological officer since 1994, Mr. Tate had ''global responsibility for research and development, patents, manufacturing engineering technology, information technology, strategic materials and environmental affairs,'' according to a biographical statement from the company.
        Craig Butler Tate was born on June 16, 1945 in Winston-Salem, N.C. He grew up in Omaha, Neb., and received a bachelor's degree in economics from Stanford University in 1967. In 1969, he received a master's degree from Dartmouth College's Amos Tuck School of Business Administration.
        It was in the summer before graduating from the Tuck School that Mr. Tate worked as an intern with Colgate-Palmolive. After graduating, he returned to Colgate-Palmolive and worked in various marketing and product management jobs. In 1984 and 1985, he worked as vice president and executive assistant to Reuben Mark, the company's chief executive officer. Later, he became the vice president for worldwide new products and vice president for global marketing.
        Mr. Tate was elected an officer of the corporation in 1989 and in 1992 was named president of Colgate-Palmolive's Far East division.
        He is survived by his wife, Sharon; and four children, Christopher, who is studying at Stanford, Andrew, Melissa and Carrie.
      