
        Gerald Piaget, whose name became synonymous with women's ultrathin watches that sold for as much as $3 million, died on Saturday in his native Switzerland. He was 79.
        Mr. Piaget died at Areuse, in Neuchatel canton, according to the Swiss news agency ATS, which cited a family announcement on Monday but gave no cause of death.
        Mr. Piaget helped his father set up the Piaget watch company shortly after the end of World War II. Though the first watches were made by his grandfather, Georges Piaget, it was Gerald Piaget who founded the modern Piaget company and pioneered the concept of the women's jeweled watch.
        Family members said Mr. Piaget was not so much a watchmaker or artisan himself, as he was a businessman with an eye for arresting styles. The hallmark of the Piaget watch's appeal for women was its slimness and luxury. Assembled by hand, the face, hands and body were always made from 18-karat gold or platinum.
        Mr. Piaget pushed relentlessly to make his watches as slim as possible, long before the age of quartz crystals and clockworks on microchips, and the thinnest of his timepieces was less than two millimeters. The company not only designed its watches but used its own goldsmiths to make most of the gold parts.
        ''His grandfather had started watchmaking in 1874, but my father built the first watch-making shop after World War II,'' Mr. Piaget's son, Yves, said in a telephone interview from the company's offices in La Cote-aux-Fees, Switzerland. ''He built the company, together with his brother. He was really what you would call the father of the company.''
        The first ultrathin watch was produced in 1957, setting off a new concept for women's watches that revealed their elegance in their lightness.
        Then as now, the company focused only on the very rich. The most popular models sell for more than $20,000 and the company went so far as to introduce a platinum watch with 295 diamonds that cost $3 million.
        Mr. Piaget remained in charge of Piaget & Company until 1981, when he turned it over to his son. In 1988  the company was acquired by the South African-controlled Richemont Securities, a Zug-based company that in turn owns 70 percent of Vendome Luxury Group. Vendome owns a number of watchmakers including Cartier, Baume-Mercier and Vacheron Constantin.
      