
        Chaim Herzog, Israel's outspoken President from 1983 to 1993, died yesterday at Tel Hashomer Hospital in Tel Aviv. He was 78 and lived in Herzliya Pituach, a suburb of Tel Aviv.
        The cause was heart failure after he contracted pneumonia on a recent visit to the United States, said Rachel Sofer, spokeswoman for the hospital.
        Mr. Herzog, a former general, was Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations from 1975 to 1978, a critical period, after serving as Director of Military Intelligence and, in 1967, as the first military governor of the occupied West Bank.
        Over the years he was also a businessman, a lawyer, an author and a Labor Party member of the Israeli Parliament.
        In his two five-year terms as Israel's sixth chief of state, he strove to enlarge the President's role, which in Israel is largely ceremonial, by making public declarations on issues that leaders in Government would not, or could not, address.
        Mr. Herzog argued in favor of greater rights for the Druse and Arab populations in Israel, declaring, ''I am the President of Arabs and Druse, as well as Jews.'' He  worked actively to make political pariahs of Rabbi Meir Kahane and his fervently anti-Arab Kach Party.
        Mr. Herzog was also an outspoken though unsuccessful lobbyist for comprehensive change in the Israeli voting system, which has spawned a jigsaw puzzle of political parties and frequent parliamentary stalemates.
        Keeping a Balance Through Arbitration
        By late 1987, as his first term was drawing to a close and while a national unity Government was in power, he had probably become more influential and popular than any previous Israeli President.
        This was largely because the Labor and Likud party partners in that Government were always bickering and frequently turned to him to arbitrate their disagreements. Moreover, groups of Israelis, like farmers and nurses, were always looking to him for aid that they could not get from the deadlocked Cabinet.
        Through the years, Mr. Herzog also made use of the Israeli President's power to pardon convicted criminals -- and sometimes was criticized for doing so. In addition he exercised the President's power to determine, after elections, which political party got the first opportunity to assemble a Government.
        His urbane, outgoing nature and his earlier roles in his country's life fitted him to serve as a symbol of Israeli unity during his years as President.
        A descendant of rabbis, and a witness to Nazi concentration-camp horrors while he was an officer in the British Army in World War II, he was steeped in the splendors and sorrows of Jewish history. He was also cosmopolitan, with the trace of a brogue from his native Belfast,  Northern Ireland, and an education gained largely in Britain.
        As the chief delegate to the United Nations, Mr. Herzog led Israel's defense against Arab attempts to oust it. In 1975, when the General Assembly passed a resolution equating Zionism with racism, he went to the rostrum and defiantly tore a copy of the resolution in two. Seventeen years later, the Assembly repealed the resolution.
        Mr. Herzog was in the Israeli Defense Force at his country's birth in 1948, rose to the rank of major general and served twice as Director of Military Intelligence, from 1948 to 1950 and from 1959 to 1962.
        Then he retired, only to return as the West Bank's military governor just after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, in which Israel, in an overwhelming victory, captured the West Bank and other territory from neighboring Arab countries.
        He also became noted among Israelis for radio commentaries on military subjects before and during that six-day war. He used the radio to urge Israelis to stay in their air-raid shelters during alerts, and in one widely quoted broadcast he told his listeners that they were in much less danger where they were than was the attacking Egyptian Air Force.
        Mr. Herzog was first elected President by the Israeli Parliament in 1983, in a rebuff to Prime Minister Menachem Begin's governing coalition of that day. By a vote of 61 to 57, with two blank ballots, Parliament  chose him over the Government's candidate, Justice Menachem Elon of the Supreme Court, to succeed President Yitzhak Navon of the Labor Party.
        In 1988 Mr. Herzog was elected by  Parliament to a second term, the maximum permitted by Israeli law. In that balloting he was unopposed, having the sponsorship of the Labor Party as well as wide backing from the right-wing Likud bloc, Labor's partner in the coalition Government.
        He was succeeded on May 13, 1993,  by Ezer Weizman, a former Defense Minister and the nephew of Israel's first President, Chaim Weizmann. Ezer Weizman was elected by Parliament on March 24, 1993.
        As President, Mr. Herzog was sometimes acid in his criticisms of the Israeli national voting system. In an interview in 1992, he said: ''The system we have is a catastrophe. It allows for fragmentation and wheeling and dealing and gives inordinate power to small groupings.''
        He was also something of a gadfly on other issues. He was one of the few prominent figures in Israeli politics to comment regularly on Israel's high incidence of fatal automobile and truck accidents. By late 1992, drivers had killed 20 times more Israelis in the previous five years than had the Palestinian uprising, almost 2,300 people.
        ''If the enemy had slain us to this extent, the country would quake and we would be shaking in our foundations,'' Mr. Herzog declared then in a message for the Jewish New Year.
        Earlier that year, at a time when Jewish settlers in the Israeli-occupied territories had taken various measures in retaliation for Arab acts of violence, he denounced vigilantism, saying in a radio broadcast, ''The phenomenon of taking the law into one's hands, of attacking innocents and interfering with the dedicated work of the security forces, endangers our foundations and future.''
        A Vigorous Wielder Of the Power of Office
        Later in the year, with Israel not able to integrate all the new arrivals from the former Soviet republics fully into its economic life, Mr. Herzog proposed setting up soup kitchens for immigrants, and was criticized for doing so.
        He also caused controversy sometimes by his use of the presidential power to pardon. In the mid-1980's, he was criticized for pardoning agents of the Shin Bet security service and its chief, who was charged with commanding that two Palestinian bus hijackers be summarily executed.
        In an interview in early 1993, Mr. Herzog noted that he had condemned ''what had happened.'' But he added that Israel was locked in combat with terrorists, and that to take the security personnel ''and put them on trial, and have each one bringing all sorts of evidence to prove that he wasn't the worst and so on, could have torn the Shin Bet to pieces just when we didn't need that.''
        In addition, loud dissent arose after Mr. Herzog commuted the sentences of members of what was called a Jewish underground organization that had tried to kill local Palestinian functionaries.
        He later contended that reducing the penalties against some of the convicted members, and making them decry their deeds, had helped to shatter their group.
        As President, he traveled widely. He was among the world figures who, along with survivors of the Holocaust, gathered in Washington in April 1993 to dedicate the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. There he described his horror when he came upon Bergen-Belsen and other Nazi death camps as a British officer.
        Prayer of Reconciliation With the King of Spain
        ''No one who saw those terrifying scenes,'' he said, ''will ever forget.''
        In 1992, to mark the 500th anniversary of the expulsion of the Jews from Spain, Mr. Herzog went to Madrid and prayed with Spain's King, Juan Carlos, in a gesture symbolizing reconciliation between their peoples.
        But Mr. Herzog did not become reconciled with the nations that had presented the 1975 United Nations resolution. In the 1993 interview, while still President, he said:
        ''Of the three countries that presented the Zionism-as-racism resolution, one has relations with us although no embassy -- that's Benin. Two still don't have relations -- one which has relations with nobody, namely Somalia, and one which is in great trouble, namely Cuba. They were the three sponsors of that resolution, these bastions of democracy and freedom.''
        Mr. Herzog was born on Sept. 17, 1918, in Belfast, the son of Rabbi Isaac Halevy Herzog, who was the Chief Rabbi of Ireland and later became the first Ashkenazi chief rabbi of Israel, and the former Sarah Hillman.
        The Herzog family emigrated to Palestine in the mid-1930's, and the future President had three years of schooling at the Hebron Yeshiva. The educational institutions where he later studied included Wesley College in Dublin, the Government of Palestine Law School in Jerusalem, and London and Cambridge universities.
        In the British Army during World War II, he served with the Guards Armored Division and in intelligence on the Continent. He was discharged and then joined the Jewish underground in Palestine before Israel was founded.
        Later he served as military attache at the Israeli Embassy in Washington from 1950 to 1954, as commander of the Jerusalem Brigade from 1954 to 1957 and as a staff officer from 1957 to 1959.
        After his retirement from the military in 1962, he was for some years a senior executive of a conglomerate of industrial enterprises that Sir Isaac Wolfson, a British businessman, owned in Israel. In 1972, Mr. Herzog founded the Tel Aviv law firm of Herzog, Fox & Neeman.
        Over the years he wrote or helped to write or edited more than half a dozen books, including ''The Arab-Israeli Wars'' (Random House and Vintage, 1982), ''Heroes of Israel'' (Little, Brown, 1989) and ''Living History: A Memoir'' (Pantheon, 1996).
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Aura Ambache; three sons, Joel, Michael and Yitzhak, and a daughter, Ronit Bronsky. All his children live in Israel except for Joel, who lives in Geneva. Chaim Herzog is also survived by eight grandchildren.
        In his memoirs, he wrote: ''I pray that my children and grandchildren will see a strong and vigorous Israel at peace with its neighbors and continuing to represent the traditions that have sustained our people throughout the ages.''
      