
        Dr. Harry H. LeVeen, a surgeon whose solution to the often fatal buildup of fluid from severe liver diseases eased the suffering and extended the lives of innumerable patients, died on Dec. 28 at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 82 and lived in Charleston, S.C.
        The cause was heart failure, family members said.
        Dr. LeVeen was chief of surgery at what is now the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Brooklyn for 23 years. There, in the 1970's, he devised the LeVeen shunt, the first successful device for diverting fluids from the abdomen back into the bloodstream, said Dr. Vincent A. Piccone of the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
        The shunt is widely used by surgeons, often in cases of cirrhosis of the liver, Dr. Piccone said. As the shunt carries fluids from the liver to the veins, a tiny valve, about an inch long, prevents blood from flowing in the opposite direction.
        Previous experimental shunts had failed to insure a one-way flow because they permitted blood to flow into the tube; once it did, it would clot, clogging the tube. Dr. Piccone said Dr. LeVeen's device closes at even a hint of blood, preventing the clogging.
        Dr. LeVeen also invented several surgical instruments, including one that used chemical analysis to measure blood loss during surgery, which was more accurate than an earlier technique of weighing sponges used in an operation.
        A colleague, Dr. C. Walton Lillehei, a former chairman of surgery at Cornell University and now director of medical affairs at St. Jude Medical Inc. in St. Paul, said that most surgeons today used another of Dr. LeVeen's early inventions -- a Dacron suture coated with Teflon, known as Tevdek -- to join tissue.
        Dr. LeVeen was the first to use sound waves to generate heat and destroy abnormal tissue, allowing a patient to avoid surgery in some cases. The method, called radio-frequency therapy, is also widely used for treatment of swollen prostate glands, thus often averting surgery, Dr. Lillehei said.
        Dr. LeVeen found that when such waves were directed at a lung with a tumor, the healthy tissue was cooled by blood circulation while the tumor was superheated to a temperature of 45 degrees centigrade, or 106 to 107 degrees Fahrenheit, and destroyed.
        Near the end of his career, he worked at the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston, where he was developing drugs to treat such diseases as cancer and peptic ulcers.
        Dr. LeVeen was a fellow of the American College of Surgeons and the Royal Society of Medicine in England.
        He taught at New York University, Loyola University of Chicago, the Chicago Medical School, the Downstate Medical College of the State University of New York and the Royal College of Surgeons in London.
        Harry Henry LeVeen was born in Woodhaven, Queens. He received a bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1936 and a medical degree from the New York University College of Medicine in 1940. He was a medical resident at Queens General Hospital in Jamaica, Meadowbrook Hospital in Hempstead, L.I., and the University of Chicago, where he also was an instructor in surgery.
        His first wife, Dr. Jeannette Rubricius of Manhattan, died in 1992. He married Mary Louise Robey of Charleston in 1993.
        Besides his wife, Dr. LeVeen is survived by two sons, Dr. Robert F., of Omaha, and Dr. Eric G., of Charleston; a brother, Edward P., of Charleston; a sister, Alice M. LeVeen of San Antonio, and five grandchildren.
      