
        L. Brent Bozell, a writer and longtime champion of conservative political causes, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was pneumonia, his  family said.
        Mr. Bozell (pronounced boh-ZELL) co-founded the national conservative organization Young Americans for Freedom, was associated with the American Conservative Union and was an early champion of the anti-abortion movement. A son, L. Brent 3d, is chairman of the Media Research Center, a conservative media-monitoring group.
        The elder Mr. Bozell got his start in national conservative affairs as an aide and speechwriter for Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the Wisconsin Republican whose perception of  Communist threats within the Government helped to define political debate in the 1950's.
        Then, from 1955 to 1964, he was an editor and columnist for National Review. He and the magazine's founder, William F. Buckley Jr., Mr. Bozell's brother-in-law, wrote a book, ''McCarthy and His Enemies,'' a sympathetic treatment of the Senator. On his own, Mr. Bozell wrote several other books, including ''The Warren Revolution,'' about the United States Supreme Court.
        Mr. Bozell ran for the Maryland House of Delegates in 1958 and for Congress in 1964, each time unsuccessfully. He was also a speechwriter for Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, the 1964 Republican Presidential nominee.
        Mr. Bozell was born in Omaha. He attended Creighton Preparatory School, where he won an American Legion award for distinguished oratory and a scholarship to Yale.
        After graduating from Yale University Law School, he worked for a law firm in San Francisco, then left to go to work for Senator McCarthy.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia; six sons, L. Brent 3d, of Alexandria, Va.; William and James, of Washington; Chris, of Houston; John, of Spain, and the Rev. Michael, of France; four daughters, Kathryn Brewster of Somers, Conn.; Maureen Bozell and Aloise Bozell, both of Alexandria, and Patricia Bozell of Frederick, Md.; 24 grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      