
        Birny J. Mason Jr., who led the Union Carbide Corporation during the 1960's, died Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y., of complications from cancer, his wife said. He was 87.
        Union Carbide, which today ranks solidly among the nation's 500 largest industrial companies, was a sprawling confederation of separate and even competing companies when Mr. Mason joined it in 1932, after graduating from Cornell University with a degree in chemical engineering.
        By 1960 he was president of the company, serving at the elbow of Morse G. Dial, the chairman and chief executive, who drew the blueprint in 1949 for reshaping Union Carbide into a modern corporation. Mr. Mason succeeded Mr. Dial as chief executive in 1963, and as chairman in 1966, a post he held until 1971.
        His tenure as president started brightly. Known for leading by consensus rather than by edict, he led expansion into the postwar consumer market with products that became household words -- Prestone antifreeze, Eveready batteries, Glad food wrap. He also began a $1.8-billion program to upgrade the company's factories around the world.
        As the company's once-stagnant profits began to grow, Mr. Mason became increasingly prominent. In a widely reported speech in October 1962, he took issue with government attacks on ''big business'' simply because it was big.
        ''Size confers no guarantee of survival,'' he said, noting that two-thirds of the 100 largest companies in 1900 had vanished from that roster by 1958. ''The top is a slippery place, and is just as uncertain for big business as it is for small business.''
        In 1966 he was chosen as one of three public members on the 33-member board of the New York Stock Exchange. The same year he was one of six business leaders appointed by Mayor John Lindsay of New York to a new Management Advisory Council to advise the Mayor on ways to improve the city government's internal operations.
        Mayor Lindsay, who also named Mr. Mason chairman of the panel, said he looked forward to the day when the city government ''can be operated as smoothly for the benefit of the people as the organizations headed by these executives.''
        But by the late 1960's, this benign view of American business was turning sour, clouding Mr. Mason's final years at Union Carbide. His ambitious construction program was marred by technical problems and cost overruns, and earnings slumped amid labor unrest and weak chemical prices.
        But those problems paled next to the battering the company's image took in 1970, when Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, opened a national campaign to protest pollution problems at the company's Appalachian plants. (The complaints predated by more than a decade the toxic chemical leak at a Union Carbide plant in Bhopal, India, in 1984, which killed nearly 4,000 people.)
        In 1970, with Mr. Mason serving on President Nixon's National Industrial Pollution Control Council, the company was confronting a drumbeat of bad publicity, punctuated by photographs of factories belching soot into the West Virginia skies. A class action lawsuit was filed and activists disrupted the company's annual shareholders meeting to protest the pollution problems.
        At a shareholders meeting in 1971, lawyers allied with Mr. Nader questioned Mr. Mason floor about the company's track record on pollution control. The company responded that while it had spent millions on environmental clean-up efforts, the technology available could not achieve the goals Mr. Nader had set.
        It was the last meeting over which Mr. Mason presided; he had announced several months earlier that he would retire as chairman of Union Carbide in 1971.
        In early 1972, the New York Stock Exchange enlisted Mr. Mason to play a role in a wrenching reorganization of its board that came in response to regulatory criticism that it operated more like a private club than a public market. Mr. Mason was chairman of the nominating committee that selected public members for the new board.
        He also served as a trustee of Cornell University, the Presbyterian Hospital in New York, the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y., and the John A. Hartford Foundation.
        Mr. Mason is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Smith Mason, of Rye; a son, Jerome A. Mason of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      