
        Glanville Williams, a British authority on criminal law who taught at Cambridge and also was a visiting professor at Columbia and New York University, died on April 10. He was 86 and a longtime resident of Cambridge, England.
        His death was reported on Thursday by The Independent, which did not say where he died.
        Professor Williams held the Rouse Ball chair in English Law at Cambridge from 1968 to 1978 and was made an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1985.
        The Times of London observed last week that he had come to be ''Britain's foremost scholar of criminal law.''
        One of Professor Williams's best-known books is ''The Sanctity of Life and the Criminal Law,'' which was published in the United States by Knopf in 1957. It analyzes laws against abortion, contraception, artificial insemination, euthanasia and other practices. One reviewer wrote, ''His viewpoint, based on reason and human need rather than tradition and eschatology, is unfailingly convincing.''
        That work was published after Professor Williams gave a series of lectures on ''Criminal Law and the Sanctity of Life: Abortion, Euthanasia and Similar Problems'' while he was the 1956 James S. Carpentier Lecturer and a visiting professor at Columbia.
        From 1956 to 1958, he was a consultant for the American Law Institute's model penal code, and in 1959 and 1960, he was the first Walter E. Meyer Visiting Research Professor at New York University.
        In Britain, he was prominent in organizations in favor of liberalizing the law on abortion and of legalizing voluntary euthanasia. In 1967, he wrote, ''Criminal law is an instrument to be used to further the well-being of society and not to diminish that well-being.''
        He was born in Bridgend near Cardiff in Wales, studied law in University College of Wales and practiced law briefly before earning a doctorate in law at Cambridge. He went on to teach at the University of London before becoming a professor at Cambridge.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Lorna Margaret Lawfield, and a son.
      