
        Rear Adm. Irve Charles Le Moyne, the nation's highest-ranking Navy Seal and a founder of the United States military joint special operations command, died on Saturday in the San Diego Hospice. He was 57.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother James Le Moyne of Miami.
        In a 35-year career, Admiral Le Moyne carried out special missions around the world, for which he received numerous awards and commendations.
        After the failure of the rescue of American hostages in Iran in 1979, Admiral Le Moyne was among those who pushed for an overhaul and integration of the nation's military special operations units, uniting the special forces of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines. He urged the senior Navy command to work with the other services to improve communications, coordination and equipment among the special units of the military.
        After founding the Naval Special Warfare Command in Coronado, Calif., in 1987 and serving as the first commander in charge of all Navy Seals and Special Boat Units, Admiral Le Moyne rose in 1993 to be deputy commander of the United States Special Operations Command  based in Tampa, Fla.
        He retired in November as a two-star admiral, the first Seal to attain the rank.
        A native of Brownsville, Tex., Admiral Le Moyne graduated from the  Georgia Institute of Technology in industrial management in 1961, and shortly afterward was commissioned as an ensign in the Navy, where underwater demolition was to become his specialty. He also received a master's degree in management from the Naval Post Graduate School in 1972.
        He served three tours of duty in Vietnam, two as executive officer. Among his decorations were the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, three Legions of Merit and two Bronze Star Medals with combat V's.
        Besides his brother James, Admiral Le Moyne is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, of Coronado; a son, Irve Charles Jr., of Charlottesville, Va.; a daughter, Elizabeth Christian, of Prescott, Ariz.; another brother, Maj. Gen. John Le Moyne, of Heidelberg, Germany; his father, McPherson Le Moyne, of Boise, Idaho, and a grandson.
      