
        Alan R. Gruber, who took charge of the Equity Funding Corporation after it collapsed in the 1970's in a big financial scandal and rebuilt it into the Orion Capital Corporation, a thriving insurance holding company, died Friday, the company announced. He was 69.
        Mr. Gruber, who was Orion's chairman and chief executive until he retired in January, felt ill last fall during a business meeting and soon learned that he had a brain tumor, according to John McCann, a friend of Mr. Gruber and a lawyer at Donovan & Leisure. The cause of death was complications after surgery, the company said.
        Equity Funding was a hot insurance stock in 1973 until it was disclosed that much of the company's financial results were fraudulent and  had been built on masses of bogus life insurance policies.
        ''When Equity Funding cratered, it was an enormously complicated bankruptcy,'' Mr. McCann recalled. ''No one thought that they would get anything out of the company, but even the stockholders got some money back.''
        The rehabilitation of the company and its subsequent success was all the more surprising, Mr. McCann said, because Mr. Gruber ''was not a professional turnaround guy, but an incredibly bright guy who approached everything on a basis of understanding the people on the other side.''
        Mr. Gruber was selected in a 1976 search to be the president of Equity Funding while it was still in bankruptcy proceedings.
        He once wrote that ''an early chore of some importance, to my mind, was the selection of a new name for the company.''
        ''Sitting in Equity Funding's office, on Avenue of the Stars, at the corner of Constellation Boulevard, in Los Angeles' Century City development, the consideration of heavenly names seemed apt,'' he wrote. ''Orion came to the fore and the description of Orion as 'a mighty hunter of great beauty and enormous strength' convinced me that the name was the right choice.''
        The court valued Orion at about $11 a share, but its stock traded at less than half that, prompting talk of takeovers, which Mr. Gruber rebuffed, saying that until someone put a price in writing he was not obligated to take an offer to the board.
        Under his leadership the company grew toward $3.5 billion in assets. A dollar invested in Orion when it emerged from bankruptcy in 1976, with dividends reinvested, is worth more than $41 now, a 20 percent annual return, the company said. Orion Capital has earned more than a 15 percent return on average invested equity for each of the last nine years. Orion subsidiaries sell workers compensation, professional liability, specialty automobile and other insurance.
        Mr. Gruber graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1945, when he was 17. He earned a master's degree the next year and in 1948, at Harvard University, a second master's degree.
        He then worked as an executive for Xerox, Heublein, Triumph American and the International Basic Economy Corporation before taking charge of Orion.
        He had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and North Salem, N.Y.
        Mr. Gruber is survived by his wife Harriet; a daughter, Marian Gruber Montgomery of Irvington, N.Y.; two sons, James of Montreal and Steven of Scarsdale, N.Y.; his mother, Esther Gruber of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; a sister, Althea Laundau of Alamosa, Colo., and 11 grandchildren.
      