
        Donald Joseph O'Connor, a civil engineer and a leading authority on water pollution and sanitary engineering, died on Friday at his home in Glen Rock, N.J. He was 74.
        He died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for Manhattan College in Riverdale, the Bronx, where he was distinguished professor emeritus in environmental engineering and science. He joined the faculty in 1952 and worked at the college until a few months ago.
        Dr. O'Connor had an international reputation for his work in water quality analysis and played an important role in a study of the New York-New Jersey Harbor. His research on estuary analysis provided a framework in the 1960's for a model on which to base later studies of the harbor. It has since been widened to encompass Long Island Sound, the New York Bight and the Hudson River.
        He was a founder in 1959 of Hydroscience, one of the earliest consulting firms to combine wastewater treatment planning with the analysis of water-quality conditions. The New York Harbor study was its first big job, followed by an even bigger contract involving water-quality models for the Great Lakes.
        The firm also did work for water quality and resource planning for the Great Lakes Basin. Hydroscience was reorganized in 1976 as Hydroqual of Mahwah, N.J., for which Dr. O'Connor was a consultant.
        He was born in Brooklyn and received an engineering degree from  Manhattan College. After combat service in the Army during World War II that included the Battle of the Bulge, he graduated from Polytechic Institute of Brooklyn in 1947 and got a doctorate in engineering at New York University in 1956.
        He worked for some engineering firms before joining the Manhattan faculty. At the college, he developed a formula for calculating the exchange of oxygen into streams and rivers that provided a mathematical model for explaining the process.
        He taught classes in surveying and hydraulics and helped develop the college's graduate program in environmental engineering, with courses in mathematical models and the analysis of natural water systems. He lectured widely in the United States and abroad and published more than 100 technical papers and a textbook on biological waste treatment, which was translated into 11 languages.
        Manhattan established an O'Connor Endowed Chair in his honor in 1994. He was a four-time winner of the Rudolf Hering Medal, which the American Society of Civil Engineers awards annually for the outstanding contribution in environmental engineering.
        Dr. O'Connor is survived by his wife of 48 years, Anita Lordi O'Connor; a son, Dennis, of Fairfax, Va.; two daughters, Arlene O'Connor-Bell of Upper Saddle River, N.J., and Jeanette O'Connor of Wellesley, Mass.; his brother, the Rev. Samuel David O'Connor of St. Joseph's Shrine in Boston, and two grandchildren.
      