
        Jean Louis, an Academy Award-winning designer who created some of the most memorable costumes  and fashions worn by Hollywood stars of the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Louis designed the strapless black satin gown in which Rita Hayworth sang ''Put the Blame on Mame'' and shimmied her way to fame in ''Gilda.'' He was also responsible for the glittering ''beads and skin'' dress worn by Marilyn Monroe for her breathless rendition of ''Happy Birthday'' to President John F. Kennedy in Madison Square Garden in 1962. The dress, which gave new meaning to the term form-fitting, was designed to be so tight that Mr. Louis later said he had to have Miss Monroe sewn into it.
        He also designed the gowns for Loretta Young's legendary entrances in 52 episodes of her ''Loretta Young Show,'' which ran on NBC from 1953 to 1961. Many women were so intrigued with the clothes he designed for Miss Young, whom he later married, that they tuned in to the show mainly to see what she was wearing.
        Mr. Louis switched from designing for private customers in New York to Hollywood in 1943 when he became head designer at Columbia Pictures.  He made the move at the suggestion of a customer, Joan Cohn, the wife of Harry Cohn, the head of Columbia. He later went on to Universal studios.
        Over four decades he created designs either for the films or the personal closets of almost every star in Hollywood, some 200 of them, including Lana Turner, Vivien Leigh, Joan Crawford, Rosalind Russell, Betty Grable, Judy Garland, Greta Garbo and Katharine Hepburn.
        His 60 film credits included ''A Star is Born,'' ''Judgment at Nuremberg,'' ''Pal Joey,'' ''Ship of Fools,'' ''Born Yesterday'' and ''From Here to Eternity.'' He won an Academy Award in 1956 for his designs for ''The Solid Gold Cadillac,'' starring Judy Holliday.
        He was nominated for 13 additional Academy Awards and on two occasions, in 1954 and 1961, received multiple nominations, for both black and white and color movies.
        Born Jean Louis Berthault in Paris in 1907, he trained there with the designer Drecoll. He came to the United States in 1936 and was hired as one of the lead designers at Hattie Carnegie, with Claire McCardell and Norman Norell.
        The following year he designed the trim little suit that became a classic,  the Carnegie suit, one of the first fashions to become popular as an American name design. The suit, which had a fitted, buttoned top, nipped waist and narrow skirt, was worn by everybody who was anybody in society and fashion at the time. The Duchess of Windsor was one of his private clients, along with Nancy Reagan, Irene Dunne, Jane Wyman and Gertrude Lawrence.
        At Columbia, he was the only costume designer at the time to be given full film credit. The films on which he worked carried the credit ''Gowns by Jean Louis.''
        While at Columbia, Mr. Louis liked to recall, he became a mentor to the designer James Galanos, who was working as his assistant. When Mr. Galanos left to open his own business in 1951, Mr. Louis's friends said yesterday, Mr. Louis lent $500 to Mr. Galanos.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Louis severed his relationship with the studios, opened a salon in Beverly Hills, Calif., and continued to design for the movies on a freelance basis. He retired in 1988.
        In 1993, Mr. Louis married Miss Young, a friend of more than a half-century. Mr. Louis's first wife, Maggy, who died in 1987, had been Miss Young's best friend. In addition to Miss Young, Mr. Louis is survived by a brother, Adrian, of Paris.
        In 1981, Miss Young said of her future husband, ''I love his clothes because they are understated high fashion and yet seductive at the same time.''
      