
        Dr. Matthew Warpick, a general-practice physician who saw his first patient in 1925 and then spent seven decades ministering to the poor and working people of Harlem, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He was 95 and had seen his last patient, a man suffering from the flu, on Friday.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his son-in-law, Stanley Grossman, adding that the highly independent Dr. Warpick had risen early, bathed and fixed himself a cup of tea before he died about 9 A.M.
        Thus ended the extraordinary career of a man who was perhaps the last of the old-fashioned New York City physicians, an urban version of the country doctor who managed others' broken bones, ravaged organs and fearsome childhood diseases with a black medical bag in one hand and virtues like fortitude and dedication in the other.
        ''I've got to keep taking care of the people who have been loyal to me,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times in 1994. ''I can't leave them alone. It's not in my nature to do it.''
        When he put out his shingle for private practice in 1926, the corner of 138th Street and Broadway was a hub of opportunity, as was much of Harlem. The streets were packed with newcomers, from Greece, Ireland, the American South.
        Drawn to the neighborhood by a cousin who had a pharmacy there, he made house calls, delivered babies and fought what were then hopeless battles against tuberculosis and diabetes in dimly lighted walkups.
        Working six days a week, from 6 A.M. to early afternoon, he often charged only what people thought they could pay. And they would bring him gifts, like cheesecakes, pumpkin pies and little crocheted toys for his daughter, that reflected their gratitude.
        Gradually, though, the area changed. The diminutive, silver-haired Dr. Warpick was held up in his office a half-dozen times, threatened by guns or knives wielded by drug addicts and prostitutes. He crunched on crack vials while walking to his office, which was broken into and ransacked.
        But there were still people in need of medical care, people who went to him, or had their grandchildren take them to him, and he refused to give in. For years, his only concession was the installation of a bulletproof plastic shield around his receptionists, his son-in-law, Mr. Grossman, said.
        In 1990 he tripped and broke his hip. The doctors who hospitalized him told him he could count on remaining in the intensive care unit for at least 12 weeks.
        ''My patients are waiting for me,'' Dr. Warpick said, according to his grandson, Marc Grossman, a medical student. He was back in his own examining room four weeks later.
        After telling his family he would work a reduced schedule, he quickly went back to six days a week, starting at 9 A.M. and continuing until 3 P.M. He was then 89.
        Finally, in 1994, after a drug-related gun battle and murder on his doorstep, he closed his office. He was in tears, as were his patients.
        ''They taught me the value of honesty, good relations and loyalty, which means more to me than money,'' he said at the time. ''They respect you in return and shower you with the greatest honor.''
        Still, he continued to see patients who traveled to his apartment, at 89th Street and Madison Avenue, turning the living room of his rent-stabilized duplex into a doctor's office. Some of those patients were the great-grandchildren of people he had seen in the 1930's.
        In that semiretired state, he remained active. He insisted on making deposits himself at the bank, and refused offers of help with his grocery shopping. He was a regular at Sarabeth's Kitchen, a restaurant near his building, where, his son-in-law said, the maitre d'hotel would whisk him in through a back door so he could avoid the long lines waiting for seats at Sunday brunch.
        Dr. Warpick, who was born on June 11, 1901, in the Bronx, was also an avid singer in barbershop quartets, harmonizing with the likes of Robert Moses at one point. He was a member of the Big Apple Chorus, part of the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barbershop Quartet Singing in America, where other members referred to him as ''the soul of the chorus.''
        In recent years on his birthday, the group held a big party on Dr. Warpick's terrace, and sang well into the evening, amid the geraniums, impatiens and live-forevers he tended carefully against the winds whistling over the Upper East Side.
        His wife, Judith Kumesh Warpick, died in 1979. In addition to his son-in-law and his grandson, he is survived by his daughter, Francine Grossman of Great Neck, L.I.; two granddaughters, and two great-granddaughters.
      