
        Sam Moskowitz, an unlikely scholar widely regarded as the world's foremost authority on science fiction and by far its most devoted fan, died on April 15 at a hospital near his home in Newark. He was 76 and the author or editor of 62 books.
        His wife, Dr. Christine Haycock, said the cause was a heart attack.
        His Russian immigrant parents were too poor to send him to college, but Mr. Moskowitz, a native of Newark who began his professional life driving a produce truck in the 1930's and ended it in 1985 editing a trade publication known as Quick Frozen Foods, couldn't have learned much in college anyway.
        From the moment he leafed through his first copy of Astounding Stories at his father's candy store when he was 12, Mr. Moskowitz's main interest in life was science fiction, a subject not offered in college in those days -- as indeed it wouldn't be until Mr. Moskowitz himself taught the first course, at City College in 1953.
        By then Mr. Moskowitz had established himself as an authority in a comparatively young field. For although writers like H. G. Wells and Jules Verne had been writing science fiction since the 19th century, it had not been regarded as a separate literary genre, or even given its name, until April 1926, when an immigrant from Luxembourg named Hugo Gernsback published the first issue of ''Amazing Stories,'' the first magazine devoted exclusively to what Gernsback called ''scientifiction.''
        It was a measure of Mr. Moskowitz's standing as a science fiction scholar that Mr. Gernsback hired him off his produce truck in 1952 as an editor of his last magazine, ''Science Fiction Plus.''
        He may not have been the first 12-year-old to become obsessed with science fiction, but none pursued it so single-mindedly as Mr. Moskowitz. Like other teen-agers in the 1930's he collected every science fiction magazine or book he could get his hands on, published his own ''fanzines,'' contributed to others and in 1939 helped organize the first World Science Fiction Convention.
        The ''World Con,'' as it is known today, regularly attracts 10,000 fans.
        Mr. Moskowitz wrote few science fiction stories of his own. From the beginning he was interested in science fiction as a fan, an especially learned fan who plumbed its history and development and wrote about it widely.
        His first book, ''Immortal Storm'' (1954), a collection of magazine articles tracing the development of the science fiction fan movement, was followed by an outpouring of anthologies, authors' biographies and other works, including ''Fiction in Old San Francisco'' (1980), which rediscovered an early strain of science fiction  all but forgotten since the 1906 earthquake.
        In time his interest and his collection broadened to include the entire range of pulp fiction, including mysteries and westerns, but his chief focus remained on science fiction, which formed the bulk of his collection of more than 40,000 books and magazines.
        A widely read man with an almost photographic memory, he became a walking encyclopedia. He could be  counted on, for example, to counter a Soviet claim that a Russian author at the turn of the century had been the first to write about a man-made satellite by pointing out that Edward Everett Hale, author of ''The Man Without a Country,'' had envisioned an orbiting, slingshot-launched missile in ''The Brick Moon,'' published in The Atlantic in 1869.
        A highly gregarious man who was a favorite guest at innumerable science fiction conventions and club meetings, Mr. Moskowitz lost his larynx to cancer some years ago, but after a period of initial hesitation became a more confident speaker than ever with the use of a vibration-amplifying device.
        To mainstream literature, science fiction may remain an alien realm, but Mr. Moskowitz, who received wide recognition within that field, made a breakthrough of sorts in 1987 when was he inducted into the New Jersey Literary Hall of Fame.
        Toward the end of his life Mr. Moskowitz had read so much science fiction for so long and remembered it so well that when a friend kidded him one day, telling him that some young fellow was sure to come along who would know more about science fiction than he, Mr. Moskowitz agreed, up to a point. ''He won't be young,'' he said.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sisters, Pearl Moskowitz of Arlington, Va., and Helen Brown of Wellington, Fla., and three brothers, Maurice, of Mobile, Ala., Herman, of Tom's River, N.J., and Alfred, of Newark.
      