
        Bernard Vonnegut,Bernard Vonnegut, a physicist and one of two researchers who first figured out how to wring more raindrops from cloud cover for the croplands below, died on Friday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 82 and lived in Albany.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother, Kurt Vonnegut Jr., the novelist.
        Dr. Vonnegut was a distinguished professor emeritus of atmospheric sciences at the State University of New York at Albany. Although he formally retired in 1985, he continued to work in his office at the university until earlier this year.
        His expertise in meteorological phenomena ran the gamut from lighting bolts to tornadoes to updrafts and downdrafts in thunderstorms. He developed and explored theories about the role electrical charges play in the formation of precipitation as well as in tornadoes.
        Dr. Vonnegut was working at the General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady when the technique of cloud seeding took flight in the 1940's. A colleague, Vincent J. Schaefer, discovered that a tiny grain of dry ice produced many millions of ice crystals when dropped into a cloud of water droplets below the freezing point.
        Dr. Vonnegut soon established that silver iodide got better results in nucleating clouds than did dry ice. Since then, no other nucleating process has been found that would rival theirs for making rain efficiently.
        Commercial rainmakers use the method today to control drought in parts of the western United States, Australia and elsewhere.
        But weather modification can also bring litigation. Rainmaking companies, meteorologists say, must move cautiously for fear of lawsuits from people downwind, whose rain is being ambushed, or from others complaining of flood conditions.
        Dr. Vonnegut earlier teamed up with Dr. Schaefer and Irving Langmuir, the G.E. Nobelist, in a project for the Army Signal Corps, attempting to turn fog and clouds into rain and clearing overcast skies.
        He was born in Indianapolis, graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1936, and received his Ph.D. in physical chemistry there three years later. He worked for industrial laboratories and at M.I.T. before joining the G.E. labs in 1945.
        In addition to his brother, Dr. Vonnegut is survived by five sons, Peter, of Albany, Scott, of Bennington, Vt., Terrence and Kurt, both of Albany, and Alex, of Cohoes, N.Y.; and five grandchildren. His wife, Lois Bowler Vonnegut, died in 1972.
        Correction:  April 28, 1997, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Bernard Vonnegut, a physicist who specialized in meteorological phenomena, misstated the day of his death in some editions. He died on Friday, not Saturday.
      