
        Dennis Patrick Cantwell, a child psychiatrist known for his work with developmental disorders and the classification of disease, died on April 14 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 58.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, said William Gorin, his administrative assistant at the University of California at Los Angeles. At his death, Dr. Cantwell was the Joseph Campbell Professor of Child Psychiatry at the U.C.L.A. Neuropsychiatric Institute.
        He was a leading child psychiatrist in California, counting the offspring of Hollywood celebrities among his patients. His expertise encompassed learning and communication disorders, disruptive behavior, mood swings and suicidal behavior, eating disorders and pervasive developmental difficulties.
        ''Dr. Cantwell will be best remembered for bringing an organized approach to understanding the symptoms and behaviors of children with mental health problems,'' said Prof. Gabrielle A. Carlson, director of child and adolescent psychiatry at the State University of New York School of Medicine in Stony Brook. ''His approach has been instrumental in advancing our knowledge of the biological and psychological underpinnings of childhood psychopathology, and thus improving its treatment.''
        One aspect of Dr. Cantwell's investigations covered potential genetic factors in a child's distress, foreshadowed by the mental state of blood relatives. He studied, for instance, hyperactive children of parents suffering from psychiatric disorders.
        Dr. Cantwell's work as a clinician, teacher, researcher and administrator was honored by universities, institutes and professional organizations. He was director of residency training at the Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1972 until 1991.
        He was an authority on nosology, the branch of medicine dealing with classifications of disease. He served on task forces that updated the profession's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disease.
        Dr. Cantwell contributed to a thorough study of attention deficit disorder treatments, conducted for the National Institute of Mental Health. In addition to some 200 articles and papers, he was an author and editor of five textbooks, including, with Lorian Baker, ''Developmental Speech and Language Disorders'' and ''Psychiatric and Developmental Disorders in Children with Communication Disorder.'' He also wrote, with Syed A. Husain, ''Fundamentals of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.''
        Dr. Cantwell was born in East St. Louis, Ill., and graduated from the University of Notre Dame and Washington University School of Medicine. He trained at institutions in California and London before joining the faculty at U.C.L.A. in 1972. He was appointed Campbell Professor in 1980.
        Dr. Cantwell is survived by his wife, Susan; four daughters, Suzi, of San Francisco, Coleen and Erin, of Santa Monica, and Mari, of Woodland Hills; a son, Dennis Jr., of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and a sister, Mary Karen Cantwell, of Washington, Va.
      