
        Melvin Calvin, a biochemist who detected the crucial phase of photosynthesis that now bears his name and won him a Nobel Prize in 1961, died on Wednesday at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85.
        His health had been declining for several years, officials at the University of California at Berkeley said. He retired as University Professor of Chemistry in 1980 but continued his research until recently.
        Photosynthesis is the most important of all biochemical processes, the process by which plants capture energy from the sun. Dr. Calvin, using radioactive carbon 14 to trace stages in the process, helped explain how plants turn carbon dioxide and water into sugar during photosynthesis.
        Photosynthesis permits green plants to take carbon dioxide out of the air and, in a complex series of stages, convert it into carbohydrates and oxygen, which in turn is discharged into the air.
        Dr. Calvin had been intrigued by organic molecular structure and behavior since his student days. His interest in photosynthesis was piqued when he studied at the University of Manchester in England under a Rockefeller Fellowship in the mid-1930's.
        He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1937, and his work on Government science projects in World War II broadened his knowledge in the field. He intensified his research when he returned to Berkeley after the war and was named director of the bio-organic division of the university's Lawrence Radiation Laboratory.
        In his research, Dr. Calvin adapted analytical techniques developed during the war, including ion-exchange chromatography, paper chromatography and radioisotope analysis. An important asset for him was the ready availability of carbon 14 after 1945 because of wartime nuclear research. He used this isotope as a ''tracer'' in tracking the steps of photosynthesis.
        Advanced analytical techniques were vital to his investigation of the ''dark'' reactions of photosynthesis, reactions that happen without the benefit of light. There was a breakthrough when he allowed plant cells of the single-cell green algae chlorella to absorb carbon dioxide tagged with carbon 14.
        The cells were then immersed for a few seconds in boiling alcohol so that the compounds synthesized by them could be extracted and later identified. In this fashion, the cycle of photosynthetic reactions was made clear and was shown to be related in part to the familiar cycle of cell respiration.
        He identified a cycle of reactions, known as the Calvin cycle, that forms an important link in photosynthesis. In 1961 he received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, which honored him for tracing various steps in photosynthesis.
        His work amounted to ''the first major application to use carbon 14 radioactive isotope as a tracer for a chemical pathway,'' Kenneth Sauer, a colleague at Berkeley, said yesterday. In addition, Dr. Calvin worked on organic geochemistry, chemical evolution, chemical carcinogenesis and the analysis of moon rocks.
        After his Nobel laureate work he remained at Berkeley as director of the Laboratory of Chemical Biodynamics from 1960 to 1980 and as a professor of chemistry and molecular biology. The interdisciplinary laboratory that Dr. Calvin headed was intended to deal with subjects ranging from solar energy to brain chemistry; it was renamed in his honor in 1980.
        In his more recent research, Dr. Calvin tried to produce synthetic catalysts with which to tackle another scientific challenge. The objective was a device to produce oxygen photochemically from water.
        He also continued to work on various aspects of photosynthesis, particularly on its evolution, on the physics of quantum mechanics underlying the chemical reactions of photosynthesis and on the role of chlorophyll in turning solar energy into power.
        Dr. Calvin was the author of seven books and about 500 scientific papers and articles. Among the books, some of them written with co-authors, were ''The Theory of Organic Chemistry'' (1940), ''Isotopic Carbon'' (1949), ''Path of Carbon in Photosynthesis'' (1957), ''Chemical Evolution'' (1969) and ''Following the Trail of Light: A Scientific Odyssey'' (1992).
        Melvin Calvin was born on April 8, 1911, in St. Paul, and received a bachelor's degree in chemistry at the Michigan College of Mining and Technology in 1931. He received his Ph.D. in chemistry in 1935 from the University of Minnesota.
        The University of California at Berkeley named him an instructor in chemistry in 1937. His long association with Berkeley was interrupted by four years of work on war-related scientific problems, including two years on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
        Besides the Nobel Prize, he received numerous honors, including the National Medal of Science in 1989, and he was a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Allen Laufer, an official with the Department of Energy in Washington, credited Dr. Calvin with keeping the Federal Government's eye on solar energy. ''Melvin's work was the cause of this agency's starting its solar photochemical energy conversion research,'' he said. ''He showed how converting energy from the sun into useful forms was scientifically possible.''
        Dr. Calvin's wife, Genevieve Jemtegaard Calvin, died in 1986. He is survived by two daughters, Elin Sowle and Karole Campbell, both of Inverness, Calif.; a son, Noel, of Palo Alto, Calif.; a sister, Sandra Davis of Los Angeles, six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      