
        Peng Zhen, one of China's foremost hard-line  leaders, died on Saturday at the age of 95.
        Best known as the longtime Mayor of Beijing who was the first prominent victim of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, Mr. Peng spent 12 years in internal exile before re-emerging to help codify an authoritarian legal framework for China after the death of Mao in 1976. The legal framework included a harsh criminal code that gave the police, prosecutors and courts all-encompassing power under the Communist Party's direction.
        As one of the party's toughest enforcers and legal experts, Mr. Peng was the epitome of politically correct Marxism-Leninism, and though his death is likely to further weaken hard-line influence here, his opposition to private property, capitalism and Western culture had been a powerful brake on the pace of economic reform and on the prospect for political change.
        Mr. Peng helped draft China's 1982 Constitution, and as chairman of the National People's Congress, he worked closely with a senior hard-liner, Chen Yun, who died in 1995, to obstruct many of the economic reforms promoted by Deng Xiaoping in the 1980's. And he worked to overthrow the political reformers Deng appointed when they advocated a more market-based economy and greater democracy for the Chinese.
        ''He saw law as a tool of authoritarian rule and as a way to create predictability while maintaining control by the party elite,'' said David M. Lampton, director of the National Committee on United States-China Relations. ''But I don't think he saw the law as something that would be binding on the elite itself.''
        A dispatch by the New China News Agency said Mr. Peng died at 11:40 P.M. on Saturday of an unspecified ''illness.'' He had been struggling with heart problems for a number of years. The death of Deng on Feb. 19 left Mr. Peng as the most senior of China's remaining party elders. Now the most senior party elder is Yang Shangkun, who is 90.
        As a revolutionary who fought with Mao for the Communist victory in 1949, Mr. Peng took part in all the major decisions that have shaped today's Communist Party leadership, including the decision to place Jiang Zemin, the former party boss of Shanghai, at the head of the national party in the wake of the 1989 Tiananmen massacre.
        His death will have no immediate impact on the current alignment of leaders, but it weakens the hard-line  wing of the party and thus could ease the path for liberalization. Other powerful surviving elders -- like Mr. Yang, Bo Yibo, 89, and Wan Li, 80 -- are believed to be less hostile to reform than Mr. Peng was, and are likely to continue playing influential roles behind the scenes in shaping policy or in resolving disputes among the younger generation of leaders who hold office now.
        Mr. Peng was instrumental in bringing down Hu Yaobang, the pro-reform Communist Party chief removed by Deng in 1987. Two years later, Mr. Peng strongly supported the imposition of martial law to curb pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square that arose after Mr. Hu's death. Those demonstrations were put down in a military assault on June 4, 1989, and Mr. Peng took part with Deng and other senior leaders in sacking Zhao Ziyang, the Communist Party chief who succeeded Mr. Hu and who refused to order the military crackdown.
        The struggle between Mr. Peng and Mr. Hu was not only ideological, since the reformist party boss was out to force the retirement of older leaders and break up their patronage networks, which were obstructing reform. Mr. Hu opened an anti-corruption campaign that was said to have implicated Mr. Peng's only daughter, and this only inflamed the antagonism between the two men.
        Although Mr. Peng's goal in laying a legal foundation in China was the perpetuation of Communist Party rule, in the process, he expanded the participation of the roughly 2,500 members of the National People's Congress in law-making and in the supervision of government. Thus he helped to develop an institution that could take on a larger role in any democratic reform movement that arises in China in the future. For now, the Congress remains largely a rubber stamp for the decisions of the ruling Politburo,
        In another example, Mr. Peng was instrumental in promoting village elections in China during the late 1980's as party control over the countryside was in a state of collapse after Mao's system of communes was abandoned by hundreds of millions of peasant farmers. Mr. Peng saw the use of elections, carefully controlled by the party, as a means to stabilize the countryside while also identifying better-qualified and more popular village leaders -- and party recruits.
        Born in 1902 to a peasant family in rural Shanxi Province, Mr. Peng joined the Communist Party in 1923. He was arrested and imprisoned for six years in 1929 for his underground work and battled the Japanese invasion of China in the 1930's. After the Communists took power in 1949, he was appointed Mayor of Beijing in 1951. At that time, he enthusiastically helped to purge the country of ''class enemies,'' a campaign that led to hundreds of thousands of deaths.
        Though he opposed many of Deng's reforms, he worked closely with Deng at other times, including the 1950's, when he assisted in carrying out a large-scale purge and persecution of intellectuals during Mao's ''Anti-Rightist'' campaign.
        Like many Chinese leaders, Mr. Peng's personal life was well shrouded. He is believed to be survived by a wife and five adult children. His wife, Zhang Jieqing, was his confidential secretary when they married in 1939. The oldest son, Fu Rui, was a police official and now works in China's nuclear industrial corporation. A second son, Fu Ping, is a lawyer in Hebei province. His only daughter, Fu Yan, is in business. A third son, Fu Yang, is a lawyer, and a fourth son, Fu Liang, is a planning official in Hebei Province.
      