
        The Rev. Robert Laughlin Pierson, a retired Episcopal clergyman who worked for racial equality, women's rights and the welfare of migrant workers, died on April 13 at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. A resident of Columbiaville, N.Y., he was 71.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said.
        Father Pierson rode with the Freedom Riders in the Deep South during the early 1960's and was arrested and jailed with them. He worked for women's equality within and beyond the Episcopal Church and spoke out for the migratory apple pickers working in the orchards of New York State.
        He was born in Chicago, attended Lawrence University and graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1949. He received a Master of Divinity at Nashota House, an Episcopal seminary in Wisconsin, and was ordained a deacon in 1954.
        He served at St. Paul's Protestant Episcopal Church in the Bronx, St. Barnabas in Newark and most recently at St. Paul's in Tivoli, N.Y. He also held positions in the Christ the King Foundation, an educational agency, and the American Church Union.
        He was arrested in 1961 in the lunchroom of a Trailways bus terminal in Jackson, Miss. It was a frequent target of Freedom Riders. He was among an interracial group of Episcopal clergymen traveling through the South to break down racial barriers. Fifteen people in the terminal were seized by the Jackson authorities and held for breach of peace.
        Father Pierson spent nearly a week in the city jail before being released pending trial. The case was eventually dismissed, but it received much national attention because it involved clergymen and because Father Pierson's father-in-law at the time was Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        The Rev. Robert Pierson and Ann Clark Rockefeller were married in 1955. They shared an interest in social causes, like supporting a black dance group in Brooklyn, subsidizing James Baldwin's ''Blues for Mister Charlie'' at the ANTA Theater to stave off its closing, and flying to Moscow in 1965 in a citizens exchange project to thaw the Cold War.
        The marriage ended in divorce in 1966. Besides his former wife, Father Pierson is survived by their three daughters, Clare Pierson Buden of Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., Rachel Gumina, also of Sleepy Hollow, and Mary Louise Pierson of Thetford, Vt.; a son, Joseph, of Manhattan; a sister, Jean Hirst of Milwaukee; and 10 grandchildren.
      