
        Gabriel Figueroa Mateos, the cinematographer whose vivid panoramas of Mexican landscapes defined a look for Mexican films in their heyday and whose work for Hollywood studios won him international acclaim, died on Sunday. He was 90.
        Mr. Figueroa's camera captured the mural-like desert horizons and sculptured close-ups that distinguished the films made by the director Emilio Fernandez, known as El Indio, in the 1940's, the decade viewed as the golden age of Mexican cinema.
        He filmed ''The Fugitive'' for the director John Ford in 1946 and was nominated for an Academy Award in 1966 for his work on ''The Night of the Iguana'' for John Huston. He also filmed several of the most celebrated movies of Luis Bunuel, including ''Exterminating Angel'' and ''Los Olvidados.''
        He was honored twice, in 1946 and 1960, by the Cannes Film Festival for best photography. In 1995 the American Society of Cinematographers, based in Hollywood, gave him its award for lifetime achievement. It was only the third time the prize had been given.
        Mr. Figueroa was known for pictures of Mexican revolutionaries and bandits in broad-brimmed sombreros, framed by cactus, vast skies and threatening clouds, ''the kind of immense clouds we all fear,'' he once said. In Mexico these images became known as ''Figueroa's skies.''
        ''I am certain that if I have any merit, it is knowing how to make good use of my eyes, to guide the camera in its task of capturing not only colors, lights and shadows, but the movement of life itself,'' Mr. Figueroa said after Mexico gave him the National Arts Prize, its highest award for artistic accomplishment, in 1977.
        Mr. Figueroa's mother died when he was born, and his father died when he was only 7, leaving him in the care of relatives who depleted what little inheritance his parents left him. A student of the violin, he turned to still photography to earn a living. He started snapping pictures on movie sets and soon moved behind the film camera, learning his craft during its technological infancy, when a cameraman still operated a hand crank on the side of a wooden box.
        With the help of American friends he traveled in 1936 to Hollywood, where he learned from Gregg Toland, a cinematographer who worked with Orson Welles, how to create foreboding shadows and render a melancholy ambiance.
        But it was only after he returned to Mexico that Mr. Figueroa began to produce his distinctive, stark images of empty railroad yards, barefoot women in black shawls against white church facades, and stylized gun duels between pistoleros.
        He formed a team with Mr. Fernandez and his favorite stars, Dolores del Rio, Pedro Armendariz and Maria Felix, to make movies about rural Mexico rife with cowboy violence and hot-blooded romance. Such films gave both Mexicans and foreigners an enduring though unreal image of Mexican life.
        In 1946 he worked with Mr. Fernandez on ''The Pearl,'' with a script by John Steinbeck, based on his novel. The film was rare among Mr. Fernandez's classics in that it was not written by a Mexican.
        Mr. Figueroa was a friend of Diego Rivera and other giants of Mexican painting, and he frequented their studios to learn how they used light and perspective. He freely admitted that he once stole an entire scene from Jose Clemente Orozco. He was also a close friend of the novelist B. Traven, author of ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.''
        Although Mr. Figueroa never joined a political party, he was drawn into politics in the 1940's when corrupt leaders gained control of the union with which Mexican cinematographers were affiliated. One union leader broke his jaw in a fistfight after Mr. Figueroa accused him to his face of corrupting the organization. Mr. Figueroa joined with the comedian Cantinflas, whose real name was Mario Moreno, to form a new union.
        Through his organizing activities, Mr. Figueroa befriended several Hollywood actors and film makers who fled to Mexico during the McCarthy era. As a result, Mr. Figueroa himself was blacklisted in the United States.
        He had to turn down a three-year contract offered by Mr. Ford after the success of ''The Fugitive,'' because the United States Government denied him a visa to enter the country. When Mr. Huston sought him out almost 40 years later in 1983 to make ''Prizzi's Honor,'' the United States once again denied him entry, and he did not work on the film.
        But Mr. Figueroa did not seem to mind being kept out of Hollywood. His ambition was not powerful enough to make him want to leave his home and family in Mexico City, and he seemed to thrive most when surrounded by Mexican scenery.
        He turned down an offer to shoot ''Rambo: First Blood Part 2'' with Sylvester Stallone, which was filmed in Mexico, because it jarred with his tastes. ''A nauseating piece of film,'' he called it.
        Mr. Figueroa is survived by his wife, Antonieta Flores de Figueroa; three children, Gabriel, Maria and Tolita, and two grandchildren.
        ''He displayed a nationalist vocation untainted by chauvinism,'' Carlos Monsivais, the Mexican writer and film critic, said on Monday. .
        President Ernesto Zedillo said in a statement, ''We have lost the photographer who did the most to enhance and project Mexico's cinema.''
      