
        Edward Mulhare, an Irish-born actor who was a suave, handsome presence on the American stage and in films and television for four decades, died on Saturday at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 74.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Pegge Forrest, his publicist and  friend.
        Television audiences grew familiar with Mr. Mulhare's clipped British accent, the result of work in England, on the series ''The Ghost and Mrs. Muir'' and ''Knight Rider.'' Onstage, he stepped into Rex Harrison's shoes as Professor Higgins in Lerner and Loewe's ''My Fair Lady'' and made the role his own, touring  nationally and overseas.
        Mr. Mulhare made his American debut in 1957 on Broadway as the testy Henry Higgins, subbing for the vacationing Harrison. But it was such a stormy debut that it threatened to derail not only the immensely successful ''My Fair Lady'' but to nip his own American career in the bud as well.
        The musical and Mr. Mulhare got caught in the middle of a long-simmering dispute between Actors Equity and Broadway producers over the hiring of foreign actors. Although Mr. Mulhare was a star in Britain, the actors union termed him ''an Irish actor relatively unknown in this country'' and thus unfit to take an important role away from an American. With both sides digging in, the show's future seemed threatened until the labor negotiator Theodore W. Kheel found a technicality that both sides could live with.
        Mr. Mulhare proved a worthy replacement who won ovations from the audience and raves from critics, and went on to play the part on Broadway for more than 1,000 performances between 1957 and 1960.
        Alan Jay Lerner invited him to take the lead in the show's first overseas tour to Moscow, Leningrad and Kiev in 1960. With national tours in the late 1970's, summer theater, supper theaters and a spell in London, Mr. Mulhare's longevity as Higgins may well have surpassed Harrison's.
        He also starred on Broadway in Dore Schary's ''Devil's Advocate'' (1960) and Jean Kerr's ''Mary, Mary'' (1961). He appeared in a revival of Shaw's ''Don Juan in Hell'' in 1973, after which he took the role on tour.
        Mr. Mulhare, who was born in Cork, Ireland, was 19 when he first played professionally in ''Othello'' at the Cork Opera House in 1942. He moved to England to appear in repertory, learning the trade and perfecting his diction along the way.
        By 1951 he became leading man of the Liverpool Repertory Company.  His first appearance in London was in ''Othello,'' starring Orson Welles and directed by Laurence Olivier. It was there that Mr. Lerner and his producer, Herman Levin, signed him to spell Harrison as Higgins in New York.
        On television, in ''The Ghost and Mrs. Muir'' (1968-70), based on a 1947 movie with Harrison and Gene Tierney, he portrayed the irascible, ghostly Capt. Daniel Gregg sparring with Hope Lange as the widowed Mrs. Muir at Gull Cottage.
        In ''Knight Rider,'' an adventure series that ran nearly four years in the 1980's, he co-starred with David Hasselhoff. Most recently he appeared with Mr. Hasselhoff, a close friend, in an episode of ''Baywatch Nights.''
        He also played supporting parts in numerous films. His last role was in ''Out to Sea,'' with Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon, scheduled to open in July.
        He is survived by two brothers, Thomas and John, both of County Cork.
      