
        The Rev. William T. Cunningham, a Roman Catholic priest who became a leading Detroit civil rights advocate and  founder of one of the nation's largest programs to feed and train the urban poor, died here on Monday. He was 67.
        The cause was pneumonia and a liver infection that followed his treatment for gallbladder cancer, which had spread to the liver and lymph nodes, said Robert P. Schweers, a spokesman for the Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute.
        It was Detroit's race riots, the nation's bloodiest of the 1960's, that prompted Father Cunningham to found his nonprofit civic organization, called Focus: Hope. Starting with just a few high school students as volunteers, he built the group into a sprawling enterprise that distributes food to 47,500 poor people a month and trains more than a thousand mostly black youths each year to become engineers and factory technicians.
        Focus: Hope now has 800 employees, thousands of volunteers and an annual budget of $71 million. It even operates its own factory, which serves as a training ground but also sells auto parts used by Detroit's Big Three, including engine intake manifolds on the Ford Tauruses driven by millions of Americans. Among the factory program's many prominent admirers are President Clinton and former President George Bush, each of whom visited the plant while in office.
        The General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation all became active supporters of Focus: Hope, although Father Cunningham periodically criticized the auto industry until the end of his life for not doing even more to promote racial harmony. Speaking at a conference of almost 1,000 executives from auto makers and auto parts manufacturers last August, he denounced the scarcity of blacks in his audience.
        William Thomas Cunningham, a Detroit native, began his studies for the priesthood at Sacred Heart Seminary here and continued them at St. John's Provincial Seminary in the nearby community of Plymouth. He was ordained in 1955.
        Later he taught English literature, notably Chaucer, at a local Catholic high school. He wore a leather jacket, sometimes used salty language and rode a big Harley-Davidson motorcycle, said Carl J. Bidleman, who was one of the first high school students to join Focus: Hope as a volunteer and is now a video production expert in San Francisco.
        Father Cunningham's life was changed in July 1967, when he saw clouds of dark smoke rising from burning neighborhoods a few blocks from the school, signaling the onset of race riots that would last a week and leave more than 40 people dead, 2,000 injured and 5,000 homeless.
        During the following school year, when many other whites were stockpiling guns and food for a possible renewal of rioting, he began working with his students and neighborhood leaders to promote racial harmony and relieve poverty.
        After gathering donations of food and clothing for riot victims, he began looking for more permanent sources of assistance. He was one of the first to persuade the Agriculture Department to donate large quantities of stockpiled food to the indigent in big cities. Focus: Hope still distributes Agriculture Department commodities to 20,500 low-income mothers and children each month and, in another program, provides a monthly food supplement to 27,000 elderly poor.
        When foreign competition and high interest rates in the early 1980's forced auto makers to close many of their huge factories here, shattering Detroit's economy, Father Cunningham began spending most of his time on job training programs. He enlisted the support of city leaders, who provided grants, and auto executives, who gave money and expertise and began hiring the programs' graduates even in a weak job market.
        ''He was the son of a real estate developer,'' Mr. Bidleman said. ''He could pull deals together.''
        Talented inner-city high school students can now enter Focus: Hope's intensive seven-week summer course in manufacturing skills like math. And successful summer students can go on to the organization's Machinist Training Institute, for a full-year course in precision machining.
        Many of these students are hired away before they complete the course, because manufacturers in the area are desperate for skilled industrial workers, who can earn as much as $70,000 a year with overtime. But students who finish the course are eligible to pursue a bachelor's degree in engineering at the Center for Advanced Technologies, which Focus: Hope runs in conjunction with six local universities.
        For years, Father Cunningham was critical of the Catholic Church in the Detroit area for not taking a greater role in encouraging mostly white parishes to work with mostly black parishes to prevent racial violence. The church has since become very active in trying to help the inner city, and the archdiocese has kept its offices downtown even as many businesses have moved out to the suburbs.
        Adam Cardinal Maida, the Archibishop of Detroit since 1990, said in a telephone interview today that Father Cunningham's dynamic personality and deep religious convictions had given him a rare ability to bring people together. ''He was able to do things, because of the credibility he had in the community, that other priests and maybe even the church leadership couldn't do,'' Cardinal Maida said.
        Father Cunningham is survived by a sister, Betty Horning of Dryden, Mich., a Detroit suburb.
      