
        David M. Ludlum, a scholar who never lost his boyhood delight in the magic of snow, died on Friday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86 and the nation's foremost historian of American weather.
        The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Ludlum's bright yellow Victorian house in Princeton had become a local landmark: the home of a kindly, apple-cheeked man whose savvy scanning of the skies and expert readings of the instruments in his fully equipped backyard beehive weather station made him the resident expert on whether it would rain on a neighborhood picnic, a town parade or a university commencement.
        But long before he began turning out a series of books detailing the history of Colonial America hurricane by hard winter, and long before he was calling the turn of battle in World War II as the commander of an Army Air Forces meteorological unit, David Ludlum was a little boy in East Orange, N.J., catching snowflakes on his tongue and making angels in the snow.
        A New York stockbroker's son, Mr. Ludlum was so enchanted by every aspect of snow, from its magical transformation of his neighborhood to its prospects for sleighing, skating and skiing, that predicting snowfalls to come and measuring those at hand became his consuming hobby.
        From the beginning, there was a scholarly component to his interest, and with no well-established meteorological career path to follow, Mr. Ludlum pursued scholarship instead, majoring in American history at Princeton, receiving a master's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and then returning to Princeton for a doctorate just in time to face a Depression job drought.
        Grateful for a chance to teach high school history, he joined the faculty of the Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J., but his life as Mr. Chips lasted only three years.
        After the Nazi storm broke in Europe, and Mr. Ludlum sensed the war clouds gathering in the United States, he enlisted in the Army in January 1941 (a step ahead of the draft) and used his prerogative as a volunteer to secure a place in a meteorological unit. As he later recalled, every other man inducted with him was sent to the Philippines, many to die on Bataan a year later, just as Mr. Ludlum was completing intensive training as a battlefield weather forecaster.
        Commanding a front-line forecasting unit that fought across North Africa, through Sicily and up the boot of Italy, Mr. Ludlum, who rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel, became a footnote to military history in 1944. At that time, military planners asked him to predict the weather for the intricate air and land assault on the German fortress at Monte Cassino, Italy.
        Mr. Ludlum had shaken his head so many times at 5 P.M. briefing after 5 P.M. briefing that the oft-postponed assault was given the official code name of Operation Ludlum. On the 21st day, Feb. 14, Mr. Ludlum said yes. The next day, the monastery at Monte Cassino and much of the surrounding area was bombed to destruction, and three months later Allied troops entered Rome.
        A decade later, Mr. Ludlum portrayed himself in an obscure Paramount Pictures documentary, ''From Cassino to Korea.'' By this time, he had established himself as a leading civilian weather expert and entrepreneur.
        It is testament to his foresight that a man who once defined weather as something that everybody talks about and nobody invests in made a more than comfortable living as the founder of Systems Associates in Princeton, the nation's first weather instrument sales company.
        Mr. Ludlum also found it well worth three decades of weekends to singlehandedly publish Weatherwise, a magazine for weather enthusiasts that he founded in 1948 and that is now published by the Heldref Foundation in Washington.
        While researching his doctoral dissertation, later published as ''Social Ferment in Vermont: 1791-1850,'' Mr. Ludlum had become fascinated with accounts of weather conditions in old Vermont newspapers. After the war he resumed this research with scholarly zeal, poring over old letters and crumbling diaries and turning out a series of books with names like ''Early American Winters,''  ''Early American Hurricanes,''  ''The American Weather Book,''  ''The Weather Record Book,''  ''The Weather Factor'' and ''The New Jersey Weather Book.''
        Although he owned what is believed to be the only full set of National Weather Service records in private hands, Mr. Ludlum, noting that the Weather Service was founded in 1870, drew the scholarly line there. Anything after 1870 was the Government's responsibility, he figured. Everything earlier was his, including the hurricane warning Christopher Columbus issued in 1502 and the Northeast's harshest and longest 18th-century winter, 1780, when ships were locked in more than a foot of ice in the harbor in New London, Conn., on May 10.
        In recent years, Mr. Ludlum, who sold his business in 1978, had slowed down a bit, but his enthusiasm remained keen. As his daughter, Carol Collier, noted, he could watch the Weather Channel for hours at a time, especially in the winter, when -- who knows -- the very next cold front could bring snow.
        In addition to his daughter, of Trappe, Pa., he is survived by his wife, Rita; four sons, Kenneth, of Hillsborough, Calif.; David A., of Manhattan; Peter, of Mission Viejo, Calif., and Stephen, of Newton, Mass., and eight grandchildren.
      