
        Mohd Fadhel al-Jamali, an Arab statesman who helped establish the United Nations and the Arab League and was nearly hanged for his Western leanings after the revolution in Iraq in 1958, died in exile in Tunisia last Saturday. He was 94.
        A graduate of American University in Beirut and Columbia University, Dr. Jamali served two terms as Prime Minister of the Iraqi monarchy. He represented Baghdad in 1945 as a principal founder of the Arab League and was the Iraqi signer of the United Nations Charter in San Francisco. As a leading Arab diplomat in the postwar period, he was prominent in resisting establishement of the state of Israel.
        Dr. Jamali was a mild, scholarly man with a schoolmasterly mien who sought friendly relations with the Western world, setting him apart from many other Arab leaders who remained deeply suspicious of Western intentions.
        Dr. Jamali also believed in one Arab nation without borders, an attitude that contributed to the severity of his trial judges in 1958. Among other things he was accused of complicity in an imperialist scheme to overthrow the Syrian Government to benefit the Iraqi monarchy.
        Iraq itself had emerged from Ottoman domination and a British mandate in 1932, though British influence continued strong. After World War II, the country experienced internal stress and unrest, aggravated by strong anti-Zionist and anti-Western sentiments.
        A military coup in 1958 killed King Faisal II and the monarchy with him. A fractious dictatorship took their place and a special military court was convened in Baghdad to sentence Dr. Jamali to death by hanging for having been in league with the West.
        He was spared because Morocco interceded on his behalf. Exiled in Tunisia, he became an adviser to President Habib Bourguiba and was granted Tunisian citizenship.
        Mohammed (he never used his given name in full) Fadhel al-Jamali was born in the religious center of Kadhimain outside Baghdad, the son of a sheik and Shiite leader. He too became a leader of the Shiite sect, studied the Koran at age 7 and intended to become a teacher.
        After graduation from the American University of Beirut, he earned a Masters degree at Columbia Teachers College in 1930 and a Ph.D. two years later. In America he met and married Sarah Hayden Powell, who converted to Islam but kept her American citizenship. He and his wife had three children, Laith, Usameh and Abbas.
        He served in the Iraqi Ministry of Education until he joined the Foreign Ministry in 1942. After World War II, as Foreign Minister, representative at the United Nations and president of the Arab League, he was a leading spokesman against Zionism, the division of Palestine and the creation of Israel as a Jewish state.
        He accused the United Nations of handling the situation in a way that turned a million innocent people out of their homes. And he advised the United States to open its gates to the displaced persons in Europe and ''not merely shed tears'' while foisting the problem upon the Middle East.
      