
        James Lee Byars, an American performance and installation artist whose idiosyncratic, Zen-influenced blendings of Minimal and Conceptual art stressed questions over answers, absence over presence and a lush momentary experience of beauty over permanence, died on May 23 at the Anglo-American Hospital in Cairo. He was 65 and lived primarily in Santa Fe, N.M.
        The cause was cancer, said Gordon VeneKlasen of the Michael Werner Gallery of Manhattan and Cologne, which has represented Mr. Byars since the early 1970's.
        In a career of more than four decades, Mr. Byars left a light, dandyish but indelible stamp on contemporary art. His work is peppered with quizzical titles: ''The Perfect Kiss,'' ''The Book of 100 Perfects,'' ''This Is a Call From the Ghost of James Lee Byars.'' He often said that the three people he admired most were ''Stein, Einstein and Wittgenstein,'' and in the late 60's he worked with scholars and scientists at the Hudson Institute in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., to determine the 100 most important questions.
        The environments he created managed to be austere and rococo, understated and flamboyant, usually involving walls painted red, black or gold. His preferred materials, especially in the early years, were folded Japanese paper and silk. He fashioned silk into enormous airplane shapes or long trainlike garments whose many holes accommodated dozens and sometimes hundreds of people. A characteristic event was ''Dress for 500,'' performed on Dec. 12, 1968, when 500 people wore a continuous piece of hot-pink silk as they walked around the block near the Architectural League building on East 65th Street in Manhattan.
        In concept, this work was reminiscent of the long paper dragons traditional to Chinese New Year parades, but it also had roots in the subversive artistic generation of the 1950's, which included the composer John Cage, the wrap artist Christo and the French painter and performance artist Yves Klein, as well as the Fluxus movement and Happenings. A common thread was esthetic experience as fleeting, random and transcendental.
        In many ways, Mr. Byars's best work may have been himself. A tall man with an aristocratic bearing and a succession of skilled tailors, he always seemed to be performing, usually appearing in one of his distinctive suits of red or black silk, black velvet, gold lame or white linen. Even when exhibiting installations involving furniture or his simple Minimal cubes and spheres carved in stone, he would frequently inhabit the display, sitting motionless as if he, too, were a sculpture. On the opening days of his 1993 exhibition at Michael Werner's Manhattan gallery, some visitors found the artist sitting in a chair dressed and blindfolded in black.
        Born in Detroit in 1932, Mr. Byars studied art and philosophy at Wayne State University there, graduating in 1955. From the beginning, he seemed inclined to an art that elegantly questioned its own existence. For his thesis exhibition, he invited his professors to his family's home, after removing all the furniture, doors and window sashes and installing a number of large spherical stones; the show lasted one day.
        A chance meeting with the artist Morris Graves resulted in an invitation to study in Japan, where Mr. Byars spent most of his time from 1957 to 1963, executing his first performance piece in 1957. During a visit to New York City in 1958, he met Dorothy Miller, chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, who arranged his New York debut, a show of folded-paper pieces displayed in an emergency stairwell of the museum for a few hours one afternoon. After that, he exhibited in New York at the Willard, Green and Mary Boone Galleries.
        Mr. Byars spent much of his career in Europe, where his reputation was greater than in the United States, exhibiting and performing regularly in big international shows, museums and galleries. His European reputation was established in 1972, at the opening of the exhibition Documenta 5 in Kassel, Germany. Dressed in red silk, Mr. Byars stood on the roof of the Friedericianum, the central building of the exhibition grounds, calling out a succession of common German first names through a gold-colored megaphone.
        Mr. Byars's work, which is represented in many collections in Europe and the United States, was the subject of a retrospective in 1995 at the Institute of Modern Art in Valencia, Spain.
        He is survived by his wife, Gwedolyn F. Dunaway, and two stepdaughters, Gwendolyn D. West of Houston and Jorei M. Waterman of Santa Fe.
      