
        J. Rembrandt George, an advertising executive who was instrumental in introducing the elongated, pyramid-like plasticized billboards that sit on top of many of New York City's taxicabs, died on May 23 at St. Anthony's Hospital in Warwick, N.Y., after a brief illness, his daughter, Linda George, said. He was 73 and lived in nearby Florida, N.Y.
        An outdoor advertising man who dreamed up the concept of putting ads on taxis when he worked in San Francisco, Mr. George and his company, Vango Media Inc., saw his idea come to fruition in New York during the summer of 1975. But it was not an easy sell.
        ''There was plenty of opposition to the idea from all parts of the community,'' recalled Gerald Cunningham, who at the time was president of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade. ''It took almost two years, but we convinced Mayor Beame that the city would be the better for this type of outdoor advertising, which was done in a very well-designed, well-configured way.''
        The backlighted signs introduced by Mr. George could accommodate messages that were 48 inches by 14 inches.
        When they were introduced, Mr. George told Philip H. Dougherty, who was then the advertising columnist for The New York Times, that the signs ''will enhance the vehicle, they will not be an appendage but a part of it.''
        An advertising associate, C. S. Hanson, referred to the concept as ''media in motion.''
        As part of the deal, New York City received $50 a year from each cab that carried advertising. Twenty-five percent of the funds that went to cab owners was pledged to the New York City Taxi Drivers Union. And so it has been ever since.
        ''As cabs trafficked through all parts of the city, including its less populated areas, people came to see that cabs coming through with lighted signs were not detrimental to the environment, but could be considered a safety item,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
        Of the city's 11,800 medallion cabs, today roughly 3,500 carry outside advertising, Mr. Cunningham said.
        A graduate of Gettysburg College, Mr. George served in the Navy during World War II. He began his business career in the transportation department at W. R. Grace & Company.
        In the early 1950's he moved west,  joining the advertising firm of Foster & Kleiser as an account executive. In 1957 he came back to New York as vice president and manager of the firm's New York office.
        Mr. George and an associate, Vincent Van Beuren, founded Vango Media in 1975. He was its president and chief executive until his death.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Lillian Killoran, of Florida, N.Y.; two sisters, Patricia George Atkinson of Carlisle, Pa., and Margaret George Golding of Rehobeth, Del; a son, James R. George Jr. of Washingtonville, N.Y; a daughter, Linda George of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      