
        William Henry McNichols Jr., who as Mayor of Denver for 14 years helped transform the city from a somewhat stodgy and out-of-the-way regional center into a booming metropolis, died on Thursday at his home in Denver. He was 87.
        Mr. McNichols, a Democrat who was known as Mayor Bill, was given much credit for his strong-willed campaign to put Denver on the map. He became mayor when his predecessor, Tom Currigan, resigned in 1968, and was elected in 1971 and re-elected in 1975 and 1979.
        When Mr. McNichols was defeated in the 1983 mayoral race by Federico F. Pena, now Secretary of Energy under President Clinton, the loss was attributed largely to the 1982 Christmas Eve blizzard. Not only did it shut down an unprepared city for two days, but it also left in its wake a disgruntled citizenry that tried to cope with limited municipal services and blamed Mr. McNichols for not seeking Federal disaster relief.
        By then he had left his mark as Denver's second-longest serving mayor, improving its water supply, building parks, swimming pools and recreation centers and expanding the Denver Art Museum and Mile High Stadium. In partnership with local business leaders, Mayor McNichols played a major role in providing the infrastructure to support the city's building boom of the 1970's.
        He was born in Denver and was a member of one of Colorado's leading political families. His father was the Denver city auditor and his brother, Stephen, was Governor of Colorado from 1957 to 1963.
        William McNichols attended the University of Colorado and the University of Alabama, and served in the armored infantry in Europe in World War II. After the war he went into the banking and insurance business.
        His political career began when he became personal secretary to his brother after Stephen McNichols was elected governor. He then served as deputy mayor and manager of public works for the City and County of Denver until Mayor Currigan quit to take a job with an airline.
        Mr. McNichols's wife, Laverne, died in 1982. Besides his brother, he is survived by a son, Stephen.
      