
        Narciso Yepes, a Spanish guitarist who expanded his instrument from its normal 6-string configuration to a setup using 10 strings and who made dozens of recordings of a repertory that ran from Renaissance to contemporary works, died yesterday in Murcia, Spain. The Spanish news agency EFE said the cause was cancer. He was 69 years old.
        As a performer, Mr. Yepes had a deeply personal interpretive style in which individual notes were sharply delineated. Compared with the more flowing style of his older contemporary, Andres Segovia, or the younger players who were influenced by Segovia, Mr. Yepes's style could sound oddly clipped, yet his admirers pointed out that his approach allowed counterpoint to emerge with a clarity unusual on the guitar.
        During his early years as a performer, he was most famous for expanding a traditional and fairly simple Spanish Romance into the main theme music of the 1952 Rene Clement film, ''Forbidden Games.'' He also composed a film score for ''The Girl With the Golden Eyes'' in 1961. He made the first commercial recording of Joaquin Rodrigo's popular ''Concert of Aranjuez'' in 1955, and he often collaborated in concert and recordings with the great Spanish mezzo-soprano Teresa Berganza.
        Mr. Yepes was born on Nov. 14, 1927 in Lorca, a rural town in southeastern Spain, and was attracted to the guitar before he was 5. In interviews, he said his early music teachers, noting his inherent musicality, had tried to persuade him to abandon the guitar and learn the piano. He refused and studied the instrument on his own for nearly a decade.
        When he was 13, he was admitted to the Valencia Conservatory, where the composer and pianist Vicente Asencio encouraged him to find an approach that would give the guitar the same clarity one heard on the piano. Later, when he was well into his performing career, Mr. Yepes studied interpretation with the pianist Walter Gieseking, and harmony and composition with Georges Enescu and Nadia Boulanger.
        It was not until the early 1960's that Mr. Yepes began experimenting with the construction of the guitar, and by the time he added the four extra bass strings that became his trademark -- but which few other players adopted -- he was an established recitalist. He made his concert debut in Madrid in 1947, and toured Europe and South America in the 1950's, with tours of Japan and the United States in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Yepes, like many guitarists of his generation who were seeking to expand their instrument's repertory, did considerable research into the lute music of the 17th and 18th centuries, and transcribed many Renaissance, Baroque and early Classical works for modern performance. He discovered that there had been isolated attempts in earlier times to expand the number of strings on the guitar. Most tantalizingly, he found a method book by the 19th century guitarist-composer Ferdinando Carulli for an instrument called the decacordo, or 10-string guitar.
        Reasoning that the guitar itself had grown larger and more robust since Carulli's time, Mr. Yepes theorized that a modern version might find greater acceptance. Using a principle common to the Baroque lute, he added four bass strings in descending whole steps, C, B flat, A flat and G flat. This extended the guitar's range. It also greatly expanded fingering possibilities, making difficult chords easier to play. And it allowed for direct transcriptions of Baroque lute music that could be played only in compromised versions on a standard guitar.
        Mr. Yepes is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.
      