
        Dudley Pope, a British author of a series of historical novels about a Royal Navy lieutenant named Ramage and of books of naval history, died on April 25 in Marigot, St. Martin, in the French West Indies. He was 71 and lived on St. Martin.
        His death was reported on Thursday by The Guardian, which did not state the cause of death.
        Mr. Pope's Ramage novels depicted naval life in the era of Admiral Horatio Nelson . The first novel, entitled simply ''Ramage'' (Buccaneer Books) came out in 1965 and won critics' praise.
        Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times: ''Dudley Pope has kept his story scudding along before a fine wind,'' and ''I herewith predict that Lieut. Nicholas Ramage, commander of His Majesty's cutter Kathleen, will enjoy a highly successful career and survive some of the most perilous adventures experienced by any British naval officer in the entire history of the Napoleonic Wars.'' Seventeen other Ramage novels followed.
        The Independent said last week that Mr. Pope began writing the series ''largely to outline, bring alive and make more generally known the operations of the large sailing warships and the conditions in which officers and crews lived and worked onboard.'' The Independent added: ''However, it was as novels that they were such an outstanding success. It was no less than C. S. Forester, doyen of maritime novelists, who acknowledged their quality and metaphorically passed his cloak on to Dudley Pope.''
        Mr. Pope was born near Ashford in Kent and dropped out of school to joint the British Merchant Navy in 1941 although he was under age at 16. His spine was injured in 1942 when his ship was torpedoed on a voyage homeward from Freetown, on the  coast of Sierra Leone.
        After a long convalescence -- during which, he later said, he read works of naval history and became fascinated by it -- he went on to work on British newspapers from 1943 and 1959. During those years he began writing works of naval history himself.
        Among them was ''Graf Spee: The Life and Death of a Raider'' (1956), about the scuttling of the German pocket battleship Graf Spee in South American waters in the opening months of World War II. Another American critic applauded Mr. Pope for giving ''his story much true dramatic flavor by interweaving therein the personal accounts of the people who were there.''
        Mr. Pope is survived by his wife, Kay, and a daughter, Jane Victoria.
      