
        Lord Taylor of Gosforth, a former Lord Chief Justice of England who was a critic of the British criminal justice system, died on Monday at his home in Guildford, near London. He was 66.
        He had cancer, British newspapers reported.
        As Lord Chief Justice from 1992 until he retired in 1996 in ill health, Lord Taylor presided over the Court of Appeal, Britain's second highest court, after the House of Lords. He was originally Peter Murray Taylor, was knighted in 1980 and was made a life peer -- a baron -- in 1992.
        The Guardian said he was ''the first Lord Chief Justice to see himself as accountable not only to the law, but to the public as well,'' and had restored ''faith in the criminal justice system after scientific developments had exposed major miscarriages of justice which had taken place in the 1970's.''
        He was also concerned about problems faced by members of racial and religious minorities. The Times of London said he ''believed his Jewish background made him more sympathetic to the needs of minorities in society.''
        His paternal grandfather was a tailor named Teiger who was given the surname Taylor, the family story goes, by a British immigration officer when he arrived from Vilnius, Lithuania.
        Lord Taylor was born in Newcastle-on-Tyne, in northern England, to Herman Louis Taylor, a doctor, and the former Raie Helena Shockett. He grew up in Newcastle, studied at Cambridge, was called to the bar in 1954 and became a prominent prosecutor.
        In 1988, after holding lesser judicial posts, he became a Court of Appeal judge, and he wrote an influential 1990 report about the death of 95 soccer fans after grandstands collapsed during a soccer game in 1989. In the report he urged safety measures that were widely implemented.
        When he became Lord Chief Justice, he presided over a number of appeals in cases where the investigation and prosecution were flawed. And he apologized to two brothers who had been wrongly found guilty of murder.
        He used his a seat in the House of Lords to criticize the criminal justice system and the Conservative Government's efforts to make major revisions in criminal law.
        In 1996, he said: ''In the last three years, almost everything has been changed or thrown overboard in the criminal justice system. When you are going to legislate, you should do it less hectically.''
        After Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, proposed reducing the latitude allowed judges in sentencing, Lord Taylor mounted a spirited defense of judges' independence. He also contended that Britain's rapidly growing backlog of cases was potentially a national disgrace, and he urged that more judges be named. He also gave women lawyers permission to wear slacks in court.
        His wife, the former Irene Harris, died in 1995. His survivors include a son and three daughters.
      