
        Robert A. Beck, who rose from door-to-door selling to the top position at the Prudential Insurance Company of America, died yesterday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Beck, who also had a home in Rumson, N.J., was 71.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his son, Stephen, who lives in Manhattan, said.
        In nine years as chairman and chief executive of the nation's largest insurance company, beginning in 1978, and as president for four years before that, Mr. Beck played a leading role in the expansion of Prudential's operations beyond its traditional life insurance base.
        He took the company into residential home sales and the credit card business and broadened its operations in group health insurance, homeowners' and auto insurance and reinsurance, which is sold to other insurance companies. He also directed the purchase in 1981 of the Bache Group Inc., parent of Bache Halsey Stuart Shields, then the nation's eighth-largest brokerage firm, now known as Prudential Securities.
        Mr. Beck shifted much of Prudential's corporate authority to its headquarters in Newark and vicinity and away from the company's regional offices. All the while, he was a relentless cheerleader for the Prudential salespeople, who looked to him as one of their own.
        In the early 1990's, the company was staggered by a scandal in Prudential Securities and, later, by lawsuits contending that for 13 years, beginning in 1982, during Mr. Beck's tenure, the company had been enticing life insurance customers to replace old policies with new ones -- a practice called churning -- in which the main beneficiaries were Prudential and its agents.
        Prudential Securities was accused of misleading clients, many of them elderly and with modest nest eggs, selling them investments in high-risk, limited partnerships; it eventually paid $1.5 billion in fines, compensation and legal fees. In a settlement on the insurance case, Prudential agreed to pay at least $410 million in compensation to policyholders, and some analysts say the cost could go as high as $2 billion.
        In the insurance complaints, Prudential was not alone. Scores of life insurance companies have been sued, accused of misleading customers in the 1980's and early 1990's. Executives who worked with Mr. Beck contend the troubles in the securities and insurance operations were unlikely events to have taken place on his watch.
        ''Bob was a stickler for integrity and credibility,'' said David J. Sherwood, who served as president and the No. 2 executive of Prudential during six of Mr. Beck's years as head of the company. ''He was very strong on the training of the agency force and in the concept of meeting the customer's needs rather than pushing products.''
        In 1994, as Prudential was reporting heavy losses, Arthur F. Ryan was recruited from the Chase Manhattan Bank to revive the company. Among the most problem-ridden units were those dealing with health insurance and home and auto insurance. Narrowing Prudential's focus to concentrate on life insurance and money management, Mr. Ryan shut down the credit card business and sold the reinsurance business. And he has set out to tighten central control, years after Mr. Beck began trying to rein in the sprawling company.
        When Mr. Beck stepped aside in 1987 to become a member of Prudential's board, he astounded some of his fellow executives by returning to his first love, selling insurance.
        The second time around, however, he was not knocking on the doors of strangers but calling on executives he had met during his 36 years with Prudential and as a leader of such civic and professional organizations as the United Way of America and the Business Roundtable and as a member of Presidential commissions and committees during the Reagan Administration. The policies he sold ran into the hundreds of thousands of dollars, sometimes even more than a million, and he soon won a spot in Prudential's President's Club for its most productive agents.
        ''He wanted to set an example, showing Prudential agents that insurance sales was something to aspire to, not to escape from,'' said Mr. Beck's eldest son, Robert 2d, who lives in Boca Raton, Fla. ''I think he also wanted to show them he remembered how.''
        Mr. Beck was born in the Morris Heights section of the Bronx on Oct. 6, 1925, the son of Alma Wickware Beck, a supervisor of telephone operators, and Arthur C. Beck, a career Army officer who had won a battlefield promotion in World War I. He graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in 1942 at the age of 16 and marked time for two years as an audit clerk at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in Manhattan until he was old enough to enlist in the Army.
        After basic training, parachute school and officers' candidate school, Mr. Beck was sent to southern Germany as a part of the Allied occupation force in 1945.
        His fascination with insurance sales began when he returned to the United States and was posted at Fort Bragg, N.C. One of his duties was to serve as the insurance officer for the 82d Airborne Division, trying to sign up fellow soldiers for low-cost life insurance policies offered by the military. One of his customers was William Westmoreland, the division's executive officer who later commanded American forces in Vietnam.
        At Fort Bragg, First Lieutenant Beck met a representative of Prudential, who wrote a letter to the company's headquarters in Newark recommending him for a sales job. Mr. Beck worked as a part-time agent while studying marketing and management at Syracuse University. When he graduated, Prudential had no openings, so he took a job in the finance division at the Ford Motor Company under Robert S. McNamara, who became Secretary of Defense in the Kennedy Administration. But within a year, Mr. Beck went back to Prudential as a full-time sales agent.
        Besides Robert and Stephen, Mr. Beck is survived by his wife, the former Frances Kenny, another son, Arthur, of Delray Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Sister Kathleen Beck of Dallas and Teresa Koenig of Columbia, S.C., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        After 43 parachute jumps in the Army, Mr. Beck never again leaped out of an airplane. But, as president of Prudential, in his late 40's and early 50's, Mr. Beck took up hang-gliding and white-water rafting. He gave up those sports at the behest of Prudential actuaries, and he agreed to limit one of his other passions, scuba diving, to moderate depths.
        He made a flourish of his daring sports, Stephen Beck said, because ''he didn't want people to think insurance people were boring or staid.''
      