
        Joseph Charles Swidler, one of the last New Dealers of 1933 and a Washington utilities lawyer who overhauled the Federal Power Commission and its regulatory equivalent in New York, died on Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 90 and had lived in Chevy Chase.
        The cause was a heart attack, his law office said. At his death, he was senior counsel and a retired founding partner of the Washington firm of Swidler & Berlin.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York, running for re-election in 1970, named Mr. Swidler chairman of the Public Service Commission, which regulates utilities. At the time, appointments to the agency were used as sinecures for defeated Republican politicians, and campaigning Democrats had zeroed in on it, calling it a fiasco for the consumer.
        Mr. Swidler shook up the commission as it had not been since its formation in 1907. When he left four years later he had not made all consumer groups happy, but they now could sound off at open rate hearings.
        Mr. Swidler had to cope with the energy crisis of 1972, brought on by a national dependence on imported oil. He dealt with water, electric and telephone rates, power deficits and occasional power failures that angered customers. He went on to serve as director of the State University of New York's Institute of Policy Alternatives in Albany for a year before returning to Washington to practice utilities and regulatory law.
        Mr. Swidler was born in Chicago and graduated from the University of Chicago, where he also received a law degree in 1930. He worked in the law office of David E. Lilienthal, whom President Franklin D. Roosevelt picked as the first administrator of the Tennessee Valley Authority, a power and flood control project that was a major part of the New Deal.
        Mr. Swidler served as the authority's counsel from 1933 to 1957. He then went into private practice in Tennessee until President John F. Kennedy named him chairman of the Federal Power Commission in 1961.
        That agency, too, had severe administrative problems. Mr. Swidler was credited with straightening out its operations and bringing a huge backlog of applications up to date in the four years he led it.
        Mr. Swidler's survivors include his wife of 53 years, Gertrude Tyrna Swidler; a daughter, Ann, of Berkeley, Calif.; a son, Mark, of Silver Spring, Md., and two grandchildren.
      