
        Keith R. PorterKeith R. Porter, a biologist who made the first photographs of tissue cells with the aid of an electron microscope and thus helped found the modern field of cell biology, died on Friday at a retirement home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 84.
        The cause was pneumonia, a complication of Parkinson's disease, a medical spokesman said.
        Dr. Porter, who did much of his work in the 1940's at the Rockefeller Institute (now Rockefeller University) in New York City, devised methods of microscopy that are substantially the same as those used today in the study of cellular growth, normal and malignant, and the division and function of cells.
        ''There can be no doubt,'' said Lee Peachey, a biologist at the University of Pennsylvania, ''that his goal of understanding the basic structure and functioning of cells contributed in an almost inestimable way, and through the work of many others, to our present understanding of disease processes and to future advances in medicine.''
        Dr. Porter's achievement came after he grew embryonic chick cells on layered plastic in a glass petri dish. When he found cells that had spread suitably thin, he used a watchmaker's forceps to peel off one layer of the plastic and insert a wire grid, which was like a piece of fine window screening. He then treated the cells  with a chemical to preserve them and dried them.
        The new electron microscope could see detail 1,000 times finer than the older light microscope, but it required that the objects observed be both dry and thinner than those the scientists had been able to isolate for analysis.
        The microscope illuminates its objects for observing and photographing with streams of subatomic electrons instead of beams of light.
        At night, he and a colleague at Rockefeller Institute, Albert Claude, who went on to win a Nobel Prize for  later work in the study of cellular behavior, went off to Manhattan's West Side to a paint-pigment chemical company -- carrying what Dr. Porter hoped would be his newly photogenic chick cells. The company had bought what was believed to be the city's only electron microscope, which was far easier to use on thinly stretched pigment molecules than on living organisms.
        He got the picture he wanted.  ''Within a short time,'' he said later, ''we discovered on one grid -- which had only three or four cells on it -- a cell in an opening in the grid, and it became the most micrographed cell in history.''
        Nearly three decades after the photo was taken, when he was awarded the 1970 Horwitz Prize for his work in observing and analyzing cellular structure, he said, ''Men have visited the moon, but we were the first to see particles, to see structures, that the light microscope had not been able to resolve.''
        Mr. Porter, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1977.
        Keith Roberts Porter was born on June 11, 1912, in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, a son of Aaron and Josephine Roberts Porter.
        After attending local schools, he graduated from Acadia University in  Wolfville, Nova Scotia, and then received his master's and doctoral degrees in biology at Harvard University.
        He left Rockefeller Institute in 1961 to head the biology department at Harvard University, then moved to the University of Colorado in 1968; the University of Maryland in Baltimore County in 1984 and, in 1988, to the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a professor emeritus at his death.
        Dr. Porter's wife, Elizabeth Lindling Porter, died three years ago.  The couple had one son, who died in early childhood.
      