
        Murray Kempton, whose independence and unpredictability as a newspaper columnist in New York made him a model of conscience for five decades of journalists and readers, died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan. Mr. Kempton was 79 and lived for many years on the Upper West Side.
        Chiara Coletti, a friend and former colleague of Mr. Kempton's, said he had pancreatic cancer. She said it was unclear whether he had died of a heart attack or a stroke.
        Mr. Kempton had been ailing in recent months. He was working only part time, for Newsday, and he was trying to write his memoirs. He had completed a chapter, which he had sent to his friend William F. Buckley Jr. ''I can't work,'' he said early in March. ''I'm almost too tired to write.'' And yet he continued to try.
        A courtly man of Southern roots, Mr. Kempton worked as a labor reporter for The New York Post, won a Pulitzer Prize while at Newsday, was arrested at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago along the way, developed a taste for baroque prose and bicycling to work through the streets of New York and became, in the words of Robert Silvers, his editor at The New York Review of Books, ''unmatched in his moral insight into the hypocrisies of politics and their consequences for the poor and powerless.''
        His commentary appeared mostly in The New York Post and New York Newsday but also in The New York World-Telegram, The New York Review of Books, The New Republic and, in the 1970's, on CBS News.
        His prose was always pungent and frequently contained the sweep of history. For example, in an essay titled ''The Underestimation of Dwight Eisenhower,'' published by Esquire in 1967, he wrote: ''Dwight Eisenhower was as indifferent as Calvin Coolidge, as absolute as Abraham Lincoln, more contained than John Kennedy, more serpentine than Lyndon Johnson, as hard to work for as Andrew Johnson.''
        In an essay on the jazz singer Bessie Smith for New York Newsday in 1987, he wrote, ''Awhile back I fell into one of those tiresome discussions where the other party says you take Julius Irving and I'll take Larry Bird and you take Sarah Vaughan and I'll take Ella Fitzgerald. There was no disposing of such nonsense except to observe that the years have taught me to be grateful for having them all, but I had to say that Sarah Vaughan is the greatest jazz singer I have ever heard. 'What about Bessie Smith?' a bystander inquired. I could only answer that I had concluded that there could never have been a Bessie Smith; the molds where they stamp out human beings are just too small for stuff of those proportions.''
        An Affection For Rebel and Rascal
        Assessing Ronald Reagan, he observed, ''For touching a people who want to forget ugly problems, no politician equals the one who has already forgotten them himself.''
        Despite his renown as a thought provoker, he believed that a good columnist does not forget how to be a reporter. And so he could often be seen on the streets of New York gadding about on his three-speed bicycle, usually attired in a conservative business suit, his spare white hair flopping gently or, in inclement weather, tucked under a black beret.
        He went to court proceedings and traffic accidents and funerals and to speeches by people who either were or wanted to be rich and famous. He wrote about everything and anybody -- Tonya Harding and Warren Harding, Fidel Castro and Mussolini, Harry Truman and Sal Maglie, St. Francis of Assisi and James Joyce and J. Edgar Hoover.
        He switched to Newsday in 1981 when the Post left its liberal perch. His commentary for New York Newsday earned him the Pulitzer, and he won other prizes in journalism, including two of Long Island University's George Polk Memorial Awards and the Meyer Berger Award of Columbia University.
        Mr. Kempton's work was respected and praised by people of every political stripe because, although he was perceived as having sympathies for left-wing causes, his sense of what was fair and decent compelled him to come to the aid of people whose politics he found abhorrent.
        Walter Goodman, writing in The New York Times, defined the trait as Mr. Kempton's ''affection for the stand-up rebel, the loser, the rascal.'' Mr. Goodman added: ''Whatever the politics of the case, Mr. Kempton can be counted on to choose the victims over their tormentors. His disgust with the uses of power is not just a sentimental indulgence (although he occasionally takes that plunge); it grows from a conviction that every society is so inherently unjust that all the winners must be suspect.''
        So he denounced the Tammany Hall leader Carmine DeSapio, then defended him when reformers led by Edward I. Koch and Carol Greitzer drove him from power.
        And unlike so many of his liberal colleagues, he forgave Richard M. Nixon for Watergate. What's more, he came to Mr. Nixon's defense when the former President was prevented from getting the Manhattan apartment he wanted by residents in the building who had not been forgiving.
        ''Who else in America except the tenant of an East Side co-op has a license to lock somebody out for no better reason than his fancied unlikability?'' Mr. Kempton demanded to know in a 1984 column for New York Newsday. ''Oh well, perhaps Nixon suffers for the best. If this nonsense continues much longer, the new Civil Rights Commission might at last find a case of discrimination worth its attention.'' Mr. Nixon found a home in New Jersey.
        Mr. Kempton loathed the espoused beliefs of Mr. Nixon's aide-de-camp, the Watergate conspirator G. Gordon Liddy. But Mr. Kempton made it clear he had nothing but admiration for Mr. Liddy's steadfastness in refusing to reveal the names of those involved when the conspiracy was exposed and he was sentenced to prison. Mr. Liddy, he concluded, ''can be to the market in honor what McDonald's is to hamburgers.''
        Adlai E. Stevenson was one of Mr. Kempton's few icons, and he was suspicious of the man who in 1952 defeated Mr. Stevenson for President, Dwight D. Eisenhower. President Eisenhower, Mr. Kempton came to think, was possessed of great deviousness and cunning. He was more kindly disposed toward Jean Harris, the headmistress who was convicted of murdering Dr. Herman Tarnower, the diet doctor who had spurned her.
        Conservative writers like Mr. Buckley and George F. Will found Mr. Kempton praiseworthy, even if they did not always agree with him (Mr. Buckley considered him ''the most entertaining analytical belletrist in town''). But not all those on the right agreed. J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, called Mr. Kempton a ''snake'' and a ''rat.'' Mr. Kempton had compared Mr. Hoover to Allan Pinkerton, the 19th-century detective for the moneyed class.
        A Writer Pained By Self-Doubts
        Although he received many prizes, Mr. Kempton had self-doubts. He interviewed incessantly, but did not regard himself as very good at it. He felt that his questions lacked incisiveness and that he lectured or even preached to people in a way that was unseemly for a reporter. Nor did he feel he was a very good writer. ''I've always been discontented with the way I write,'' he once told a writer for The New Yorker.
        Other people were discontented with his style too. On one occasion, Mr. Kempton was sued for libel by the conservative pundit Victor Lasky. But Mr. Lasky lost his case on appeal because the court became impaled on some of Mr. Kempton's sentences and did not understand what the offending article meant. Even worse, the court was not convinced that any normal person had understood it either.
        A Kempton sentence at its most complex was no mean thing to judge. In a way, his sentence might have reflected the environment where one of his distant ancestors, George Mason, created some elegant language for Virginia's Bill of Rights. In that part of the South, there is nothing quite like the slow-motion spectacle of a thong of implacable bittersweet slowly coiling itself around an unsuspecting and always vulnerable magnolia, until the magnolia is trapped and will not survive unless somebody comes along and applies a machete to the bittersweet. The magnolia-bittersweet melange is lovely to see, if one only has the patience.
        A Kempton sentence was something like that. It might be a marathon of 75 words or longer. It might refer to H. L. Mencken, Edmund Burke or Henry James, with allusions to Agamemnon, Marilyn Monroe and the Earl of Clarendon. To engage two or three such sentences in a Kempton paragraph, one would perforce have to confront assorted tumbling gerunds and adverbs, innumerable commas and semicolons, before finding the meat of a verb or noun. But if a reader considered this thicket of prose, this involution of bittersweet and magnolia, the reward might be a memorable phrase, the harvest of an idea, more than a modicum of wisdom.
        A Code of Courtesy, Even to Scoundrels
        James Murray Kempton was born Dec. 16, 1917, in Baltimore, the only child of James Bransom Kempton, a stockbroker who died of influenza when Murray was 3, and of Sally Ambler Kempton. Murray Kempton said later in life that his father and most of his paternal ancestors seemed rather a dull lot. On his mother's side of the family, all manner of Episcopal poobahs and stern men in epaulets stalked about the influence centers of the Old South, before the Civil War. To Mr. Kempton's chagrin, one of his ancestors wrote the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, which called for the return of runaway slaves to their owners.
        Mr. Kempton found all his role models in literature. He especially took to courtly Edwardian gentlemen who seemed to believe in honor, in doing the honorable thing. And so he became possessed of emulating them, of showing uncommon courtesy to even the worst blackguards, and to do the correct thing, the honorable thing, by his colleagues and by those about whom he wrote, even if his writings frequently contained Southern vinegar.
        A great deal of that vinegar found its way into the prose he produced in the middle 1930's for the News-Letter, the student newspaper at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.
        In 1936, while still an undergraduate, he got a summer job working on a mail boat and, consistent with what many other young people did in those hard times, joined a Communist faction in the mariners' union. He came not to hold the party in high esteem, and shortly abandoned it to join the Socialist Party led by Norman Thomas.
        After his graduation from Johns Hopkins in 1939, he served briefly as a social worker in Baltimore, then moved to Peekskill, N.Y., where he worked for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He thought he ought to become a newspaperman and succeeded, in 1942, in snagging a job at the old Post. But World War II had begun; he served in the Philippines and on one occasion his outfit was surprised by a Japanese force. He came away feeling that once ambushed, a person could never take himself very seriously again.
        Following the war, he rejoined the Post and in 1949 became labor editor. But he did not want to cover only labor and began to do political reporting. Quickly, he defended the victims of politicians who indulged in scapegoating those thought to be radical, those who were black, those who were somehow seen as different.
        One great interest over the years was Italians; he criticized them as if he were one of them and he kept returning to Italianate themes.  Rome, he said, was quite lovely but was ''where the Gypsies steal your wallet and the church robs you of every faith in the laws of probability.'' Mussolini, he seemed to convince himself, got into fascist politics so that he could attend meetings and get away from a nagging wife. He regarded Machiavelli as an apparatchik: ''What is most current for us in  'The Prince' is not its teachings about statecraft, but its purpose as a prospectus for a job with, or failing, a study grant from the state.''
        Murray Kempton never sought a job at The Times. For him, The Times took itself too seriously.
        As he grew older, his observations remained just as pungent, but he was upstaged by a new generation of columnists who thought nothing of appearing on television to tell the world in 30 seconds or less what was really wrong with the country. His syndication grew creaky; out-of-town editors thought he wrote too many stories about New York City.
        But if Mr. Kempton had contempt for colleagues who betrayed its calling, he continued to believe in journalism. Throughout his career he kept his formidable impertinence sweet and at the ready.
        ''Any man who believes in a politician knows what it was to have bet on the White Sox in 1919,'' he said. And, ''There is always a regulation somewhere that will allow a government officer to do a malignant thing.''
        Murray Kempton thought there were ''higher qualities than competence'' and said ''the rarest and highest is honor,'' which to his dying day he called ''a commodity in the shortest supply.''
        His books were ''Part of Our Time: Some Ruins and Monuments of the Thirties'' (1955); ''America Comes of Middle Age: Columns, 1950-1962'' (1963); ''The Briar Patch: The People of the State of New York vs. Lumumba Shakur, et al'' (1973); and ''Rebellions, Perversities and Main Events'' (1994).
        Mr. Kempton had marriages to Mina Bluethenthal and Beverly Gary. He is survived by his companion, Barbara Epstein, co-editor of The New York Review of Books; and by his children, Sally, now known as Durgananda, and David, both of Fallsburg, N.Y.; Arthur, of Lexington, Mass.; and Christopher, of New York City. There are also two grandchildren. A son, Murray Jr., died in 1971 in a car crash.
        On Nov. 21 last year, at a Society of the Silurians dinner honoring him, Mr. Kempton recalled his early days as a labor reporter. The first year he received 150 bottles of ''reasonably good'' whisky for Christmas, the normal ration for the reporter on that beat. The second year he got two.
        ''I realized for the first time that meant that I would never in the future have any sources, and I could henceforth be an outsider, and I was simply stuck with watching the game and ending up most of the time in the lonely honor of the loser's dressing room.'' It was, he made clear to his audience that night, where he preferred to be.
      