
        Dr. James Melvin Washington, an expert on black American religious history who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in St. Luke's Hospital. He was 49 and lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke that he suffered at home, said Sandra K. Jones, an aide to the president of Union Theological Seminary.
        At his death, Dr. Washington was professor of church history at Union. He took that post in 1986 after having joined its faculty as assistant professor of African-American church history in 1976. He was an ordained Baptist minister and had a doctorate in religious studies from Yale.
        Ronald F. Thiemann, the dean of the Harvard Divinity School, said yesterday that Dr. Washington's ''most extraordinary quality as a historian was his ability to capture the way people have lived out their faith in everyday life,'' both in past eras and in the present. Dean Thiemann said Dr. Washington, the son of a laborer and a housekeeper, had an uncanny gift for identifying ''with persons both great and small.''
        Dr. Washington once wrote that reading black people's prayers from different epochs was a way to ''recover the history of the spiritual disciplines that sustained my people through slavery, Jim and Jane Crowism and the civil rights movement.''
        The Rev. Dr. James A. Forbes Jr., the senior minister of Riverside Church, where Dr. Washington was active, said that a book edited by Dr. Washington, ''Conversations with God: Two Centuries of Prayers by African-Americans'' (1994, HarperCollins) was ''a source of inspiration to many'' and reflected ''the dignity and power of the African-American religious heritage.''
        And David J. Garrow, a historian at Emory University who is an expert on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., said Dr. Washington was not only ''one of the leading scholars of African-American religion'' but also ''a very impressive preacher.''
        Mr. Garrow said another book that Dr. Washington edited, ''Testament of Hope: The Essential Speeches and Writings of Martin Luther King Jr.'' (Harper, 1990), ''brought together into one easily accessible source'' writings of his ''that had been published, sometimes very obscurely, during King's lifetime.''
        Another Emory University expert on African-American American religious history, Randall K. Burkett, said another of Dr. Washington's strengths was that ''he was enormously knowledgeable about the full range of American religious history as a whole,'' and at the same time had a profound and nuanced ''appreciation for black Baptist traditions in particular.''
        Dr. Washington was born and reared in Knoxville, Tenn., earned a bachelor's degree in 1970 from the University of Tennessee at Knoxville, a master's degree in 1972 from the Harvard Divinity School, and a doctorate in 1979.
        Before he began teaching at Union Theological Seminary he taught at the Yale Divinity School. Over the years he also taught and lectured at Princeton and Columbia Universities and at Haverford and Oberlin Colleges and elsewhere.
        He is survived by his wife of 26 years, the former Patricia Anne Alexander; a daughter, Ayanna Nicole Washington of Manhattan; his mother, Annie B. Washington of Knoxville; two sisters, Helen Brown and Louise Hill, both of Knoxville, and three brothers, Howard Moore of Dalton, Ga., Willie Moore of Memphis, Tenn., and Charles Washington of Knoxville.
      