
        One man speaks to God. The other speaks to the stock market. Both of them hear things that no one else does.
        The rabbi knows precious little about business and is fine with that. The investor, an avowed agnostic, bought his first stock when he was 11, and his acumen for making money seems divine.
        They came to know each other oh, so many years ago in Omaha, through their wives and through Rotary Club meetings. Paths cross and things happen. Theirs is an uncommon story of riches and extraordinary magnanimity, of money made and given away, and ultimately, of a New York seminary tower, in shambles for 30 years, about to be resurrected.
        Pretty much everyone knows the gilded story of Warren E. Buffett, the investor from Omaha with the otherworldly nose for stocks. But how many know the interlocking tale of Rabbi Myer Kripke and Warren E. Buffett, the man of the cloth and the man of gold, the man who turned over a small inheritance to a friend, and the friend who is now worshiped on Wall Street as the god of stock pickers?
        Best to first meet the rabbi and appreciate the road he took. He was born in Toledo, Ohio, in 1914, one of seven children. His father was in the business of buying and selling containers -- bottles, barrels -- and the Kripkes had a middle-class life.
        Myer Kripke came to New York in 1930 to study at New York University and the Jewish Theological Seminary at Broadway and 122d Street. He discovered both higher learning and romance. In a class on Jewish religion at the seminary, he met a student from Brooklyn named Dorothy Karp. They were married at the seminary in 1937, a week after he was ordained.
        Rabbi Kripke accepted jobs at synagogues in Racine, Wis.; Patchogue, N.Y., and New London, Conn., before learning in 1946 of an opening at the Beth El Synagogue in Omaha. It was a good salary -- $7,500 -- and he took it.
        As he tended to his religious duties, his wife wrote children's books that elucidated Jewish beliefs. One of them was called ''Let's Talk About God.'' Mr. Buffett's wife, Susie, very much enjoyed it. She learned that the author lived in Omaha, two blocks from the Buffetts. She called her and was invited over. Just like that they became friends.
        That was in the early 1960's, and Mrs. Kripke was ill with a brain disorder that sapped her strength. She spent much of her time in bed, coming into the kitchen once every few weeks to prepare a backlog of meals. They were piled into the freezer. Rabbi Kripke warmed them up day by day.
        Once a week, Mrs. Buffett drove her new friend to physical therapy, and all four of them occasionally played bridge. The men also saw each other at the Rotary Club.
        Differences about doctrine and dogma did not matter. Mrs. Buffett's father was a minister in a Disciples of Christ church in Irvington, Neb., where she and her sister constituted most of the choir, though she is now a personal theist, with strong but nondenominational beliefs. Mr. Buffett's parents were observant Presbyterians and he, too, sang in the choir. Early on, though, he became an agnostic. He avoids houses of worship. His concerns are entirely secular. ''The nice thing about an agnostic is you don't think anybody is wrong,'' Mr. Buffett said.
        What attracted Mr. Buffett to the rabbi? ''He's a sincere guy,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''He can be quite funny. He's quite likable.''
        Rabbi Kripke said of Mr. Buffett: ''We both lived in similar ways. We both felt that the business of life is to be decent to one another and to live with compassion and not indifference.''
        Mrs. Buffett invited the Kripkes to Thanksgiving dinner at their house. The Kripkes adhered to Jewish dietary rules, and so told her that they would be glad to accept but that the Buffetts had to understand that they would have to pass on the turkey, which would not be kosher, and feast on rolls and coffee and nothing else. That troubled Mrs. Buffett, so she enlisted a gourmet cook to make a decidedly gourmet tuna salad for the Kripkes. It became a tradition: turkey for the Buffetts and their other guests, gourmet tuna salad for the Kripkes.
        Mr. Buffett was moderately wealthy at the time, and was operating limited partnerships with select investors. His acumen was known in Omaha but little outside the city.
        The Kripkes had inherited some money from their parents and had saved a little of their own -- a total of about $65,000 -- but what did they know of stocks and debentures, puts and calls, the arcana of portfolio theory? His wife told him, ''Myer, invest the money with your friend Warren.''
        The rabbi did not want to be embarrassed. In those days, Mr. Buffett was accepting investments in chunks of $150,000 to $200,000. ''He doesn't want the kind of money we have,'' Rabbi Kripke said.
        For three years, Mrs. Kripke repeated the message until it became a chant. They were all friends, she said; he will take the money.
        Finally, Rabbi Kripke went to Mr. Buffett, and Mr. Buffett took the money.
        ''I wasn't admitting many people in the 1960's,'' Mr. Buffett said. ''But I liked Myer.'' It made little difference that for Mr. Buffett's league, Rabbi Kripke's investment was on the meager side. ''I wanted people who, if it went bad, we could still be friends,'' he said.
        The rabbi did not ask Mr. Buffett what he invested the money in, and it was just as well. Mr. Buffett would not have told him. That was the way he did business.
        And over the years, as his stake swelled, Rabbi Kripke was never the hectoring client. ''He never asked me, 'Why didn't we do better last year?' or, 'How are we going to do this year?' '' Mr. Buffett said.
        Rabbi Kripke retired in 1975. Since then, he has been teaching at Creighton University, the Jesuit school in Omaha, and he writes a weekly column for the local Jewish newspaper.
        Across 30 years, except for a few withdrawals to make charitable contributions, the Kripkes kept their savings with Mr. Buffett. Early on, the limited partnership they had set up was terminated and the rabbi's stake was converted into shares of Berkshire Hathaway, the investment company run by Mr. Buffet, which has risen in value in unheard-of fashion.
        The world came to know Mr. Buffett as arguably the most storied investor of all time. The rabbi did all right, too. By last year, his shares were worth $25 million, an unimaginable sum in a field in which enrichment is customarily measured in nourishment of the spirit.
        He had no personal use for it. He has never owned any property, and he very much liked living in a three-bedroom apartment he rented for $900 a month in the Richland Park development in western Omaha.
        To him, a suit is a suit, a car is a car, bedsheets are bedsheets. A few weeks ago, he bought a new suit. He got it on sale for less than $250. ''Dorothy once asked me, 'Wouldn't you like to buy a better car?' '' he said. ''I said, 'There's nothing wrong with a Chevrolet.' ''
        Having entered his 80's, the rabbi felt it was time to put his affairs in order. His wife's condition deteriorated last year and she had to be moved to a nursing home. Both felt a debt to the Jewish Theological Seminary. It shaped their outlook on life. They had met one another there. Besides, the couple were never charged anything for the wedding.
        About a year ago, Rabbi Kripke  called the seminary and spoke with Rabbi Carol Davidson, the director of planned giving. He mentioned that he might want to make a gift. He threw out a figure of $100,000.
        ''That got my attention,'' Rabbi Davidson said.
        Last September, Rabbi Davidson sat at the table in Rabbi Kripke's den in Omaha. She suggested he do something he could enjoy in his lifetime -- for instance, finance the repair of the seminary's 13-story tower. It was the mainstay of the entrance to the seminary but had stood in ruin since an inexplicable fire raced through it in 1966. Rabbi Kripke remembered the tower fondly. It had housed the library when he was a seminary student.
        ''How much would it cost?'' he asked.
        ''Seven million dollars,'' she said.
        He looked at his wife, and said, ''Dorothy, would you like to do it?''
        She said yes.
        He turned to Rabbi Davidson, and said, ''We'd like to do it.''
        The seminary received the gift in December, and restoration of the tower is expected to begin this summer and be completed within a few months. The seminary is also the beneficiary of some trusts it helped the rabbi set up, which will mean additional millions. Ultimately, the Kripkes plan to give the rest of their money to various other charities, including the Beth El Synagogue.
        Some might say that it was one of life's coincidences that the tower burned down in 1966, the same year that Rabbi Kripke entrusted his money to Warren Buffett. But what do they know?
        ''Listen, I'm a rabbi,'' said Rabbi Davidson. ''I believe it was destined. No such thing as coincidence here.''
        The Buffetts and the Kripkes don't see so much of each other anymore. Mr. Buffett is extremely busy with his work. While the Buffetts say they remain close, Susie Buffett now lives in San Francisco.
        When Rabbi Kripke called Mr. Buffett to say he wanted to come see him and tell him about the gift, he had to settle for chatting on the phone. Mr. Buffett found nothing unusual in the destination of the money he had made for the rabbi. ''I thought it was quite terrific,'' he said. ''It's quite in keeping with the family.''
        To Rabbi Kripke, it was just one of those things. ''Most people would have considered putting everything into one investment stupid,'' he said of that decision 30 years ago. ''I guess it was stupid. It was chance, just chance.''
        Investment In the Divine
      