
        Stanley K. Strachan, a financial journalist who came to prominence by exposing fraud and mismanagement in the unfolding savings and loan crisis of the 1980's, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Strachan was born in London. Starting as a copy boy on The New York Journal-American, Mr. Strachan reported on sports and the police before joining The American Banker in 1961. There, he became the trade newspaper's assistant managing editor.
        He left in 1976 to join two partners in founding National Thrift News, a weekly now called National Mortgage News, which has been called the bible of its industry.
        In September 1987, Mr. Strachan was the first to report a meeting between five United States Senators and Charles H. Keating Jr., a savings and loan executive whose fraud convictions were dismissed last year. The Senators -- Alan Cranston of California, John Glenn of Ohio, Donald W. Riegle Jr. of Michigan, Dennis DeConcini of New Mexico and John McCain of Arizona -- were later sharply criticized for their efforts in lobbying Federal savings regulators on behalf of Mr. Keating. Mr. Strachan was also the first to report on tax concessions granted by the Government to buyers of failing savings institutions.
        For their efforts, Mr. Strachan and his staff won the 1988 George K. Polk Award.
        Amiable but occasionally tyrannical, Mr. Strachan was a mentor to a generation of banking reporters, and was fearless in publishing stories even in his publication's early days, when retribution could have pushed it over the financial edge.
        Mr. Strachan contributed articles on banking to many publications, including The Journal of Commerce, The New York Post and The New York Times. He was also a guest commentator on the Cable News Network and its new FN channel.
        In 1995, Mr. Strachan and his senior partners, Wesley Lindow and John Glynn, sold National Mortgage News and a variety of other publications that covered mortgages and housing to Faulkner & Gray, a unit of the Thomson publishing empire. Mr. Strachan, who became publisher of National Mortgage News, was working to start a publication, Mortgage Servicing News, before he died.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Strachan is survived by their 16-year old daughter, Hillary.
        Correction:  January 14, 1997, Tuesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Friday about Stanley K. Strachan, a financial journalist who first reported on a 1987 meeting of Charles H. Keating Jr., the savings and loan executive, and five Senators, misidentified the state that one of the Senators, Dennis DeConcini, represented. It was Arizona, not New Mexico.
      