
        Manuel Nardy, a hard-drinking, tale-spinning cowboy of such hardscrabble simplicity that he didn't learn until years after the fact that he had been translated into one of the most memorable characters in Brazilian literature, died on Monday in a hospital in Belo Horizonte, 200 miles  north of Rio de Janeiro. He was 92 and known throughout Brazil as Manuelzao, or Big Manuel.
        It would be understandable if Mr. Nardy had not immediately recognized his literary counterpart -- even if he had known how to read and write.
        The acclaimed author who made him famous, Joao Guimaraes Rosa, was likened as often to Proust as he was to Joyce. But Rosa's 1956 masterpiece, ''Grande Sertao: Veredas,'' relied so heavily on a stream-of-consciousness narration, with convoluted stories embedded within convoluted stories, and used so many made-up words that more than a few college graduates found what one breathless critic called ''the greatest literary adventure since Ulysses'' every bit as difficult to get through.
        It was not until after Rosa's death in 1967 that literary sleuths tracked down the man whose affecting homespun philosophy and vivid recollections of life in the Brazilian backlands had made him the model for Riobaldo, the book's sensitive, thoughtful, often bewildered narrator who was variously likened to Faust and Hamlet.
        A native of Tres Marias in a remote area of the eastern state of Minas Gerais, Mr. Nardy, who had no formal education, worked as a wrangler on a nearby ranch for most of his life.
        When Rosa, a doctor-turned-diplomat-turned novelist, came to the ranch in the late 1940's to do some literary research for a collection of short stories, Mr. Nardy became his guide, accompanying him on horseback and regaling him with stories of the old days in the strife-torn upland plains known as the sertao, the Brazilian version of the wild west.
        Rosa was so enchanted with his guide that soon after completing his collection, ''Sangrana,'' he began work on ''Grande Sertao,'' which was hailed as an instant classic when it was published in 1956. A truncated English translation that makes no pretense of trying to duplicate Rosa's soaring Portuguese was published in the United States in 1963 as ''The Devil to Pay in the Backlands.''
        Rosa also used Mr. Nardy as the basis for a title character in a later book, ''Manuelzao and Miguilim.''
        Once he was discovered by the Brazilian literary establishment, Mr. Nardy savored his role as a celebrity, granting interviews, posing for photographs and even giving lectures at colleges. It was a reflection of the mesmerizing hold he had on Brazilian intellectuals that a doctoral dissertation based on his life and saddle-bred philosophy was published as a book.
        He won even wider fame in 1985 when he played the lead role in a 25-installment television mini-series based on ''Grande Sertao.'' The series, which ran on Brazil's largest television channel, reached a huge audience and made Mr. Nardy so famous that a university program devoted to the study of the sertao region was named for him.
        Dspite his new-found fame as an actor, Mr. Nardy, who, after all, was more or less playing himself, returned to wrangling, giving it up only a few years ago.
        Mr. Nardy was a tall, lean man whose Big Manuel nickname was derived from his almost six-foot height, a comparative rarity in Brazil. He became known for his long white beard, which, he explained, was the result of a curious vow he made, never to shave again, if a son, who had been wounded in a shooting, survived, as he did.
        To the end, Mr. Nardy, who is survived by his wife, Gigi, 7 children, 22 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, remained true to the simple ways of life.
        A man who enjoyed his liquor, especially the Brazilian national drink known as cachaca, Mr. Nardy never bemoaned his lack of book learning. He was educated, he liked to say, in the school of life, and as he had been with Rosa half a century ago he was unfailingly generous about sharing the secrets of his long and healthy life:
        ''Keep riding a horse and never let go of a good cachaca.''
      