
        Dr. Chia-Shun Yih, an authority on fluid mechanics, died of heart failure in his sleep on April 25 while in a plane over Japan. He was 78 and lived in Gainesville, Fla.
        Dr. Yih was the Timoshenko University Professor Emeritus at the University of Michigan, where he retired in 1988 but kept an office. He had also taught at the University of Florida.
        Born in China, he lectured widely in Chinese, English, French and German. He was also an expert in applied mathematics and wrote more than 100 scientific papers.
        His textbooks for his specialty, the flow characteristics of liquids and gases, include ''Dynamics of Nonhomogenous Fluids'' (1960), revised as ''Stratified Flows'' (1980), and ''Fluid Mechanics: A Concise Introduction to the Theory'' (1969), which remains in print.
        At a convention of the Academia Sinica, the Chinese National Academy of Science in Taiwan last year, Dr. Yih embraced the idea of creating an institute of mechanics there. When he died, he was on his way to Taipei to review the field in Taiwan and to discuss the mission such an institute might have.
        Dr. Yih was born in Kweiyang and graduated from National Central University in Nanking in 1942. The Chinese Government selected him in 1945 for advanced studies in the United States.
        He arrived in New York on an American troop ship by way of Calcutta and the Suez Canal. Family lore has it that his first purchases ashore were an English dictionary and, being a lover of the arts, a ticket to a recital by Marian Anderson.
        He studied at the University of Iowa, earned an M.S. and Ph.D. in fluid mechanics by 1948, and taught at universities in North America and France before joining the faculty in Ann Arbor, Mich., in 1956. Two years later he was promoted to professor of fluid mechanics. He was named the Stephen P. Timoshenko Distinguished University Professor in 1967.
        Surviving are his wife, Shirley Ashman Yih; two sons, Yiu-Yo, of Englishtown, N.J., and David, of East Hampton, Conn.; a daughter, Katherine, of Cambridge, Mass.; two sisters, Chia-Ju, of Beijing, and Chia-Ling, of Kweiyang, and three grandchildren.
      