
        Allen F. Lovejoy, a retired lawyer who was an eminent and single-minded collector of American coins, specializing exclusively in dimes, died on Thursday in the Mediplex rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn. He was 77 and lived in Riverside, Conn.
        The cause was complications resulting from a stroke, said his daughter, Jennifer L. Craddock.
        Mr. Lovejoy, a native of Wisconsin, began working as a lawyer in 1948, when he joined the Manhattan-based law firm of Breed, Abbott & Morgan, where he became an expert in corporate law and, in 1958, a partner. He retired from the firm in 1987.
        He began collecting dimes in his youth. Years afterward, when his daughter asked the obvious question -- Why dimes? -- he answered, ''One of my brothers was collecting nickels, and the other was collecting pennies, so I was left with the dimes.''
        Ed Reiter, a coin columnist for The New York Times, gave other reasons why dimes, particularly early dimes, fascinate collectors, when he reviewed a 1984 book by Mr. Lovejoy and four co-authors, ''Early United States Dimes, 1796-1837.''
        Mr. Reiter wrote that the work was an important ''labor of love'' that ''fills a significant gap in numismatic literature'' because ''while there have been definitive texts about every other commonly used coin series from the nation's early years, dimes up to now have been overlooked.''
        ''It is, in fact, the diversity of early U.S. coinage that makes it so appealing to specialists,'' Mr. Reiter wrote, and he noted that Mr. Lovejoy and his co-authors -- all amateur dime collectors -- had managed to pinpoint ''151 different varieties of early dimes.''
        There were other intriguing oddities in early dime history. For example, the word was spelled ''disme'' in the legislation that first authorized the minting of dimes. Both ''dime'' and ''disme'' are Americanized versions of the French word ''dixieme,'' meaning tenth.
        In their first dozen years, American dimes were not inscribed with their value. Starting in 1809, they were marked with a terse ''10 C.'' The first dimes depicted, on one side, a regal-looking eagle inside a wreath. The designs changed over the years.
        By 1990, Mr. Lovejoy had amassed a collection of dimes from each year, and from each American mint that made them, from 1796 to modern times.
        His daughter said he had auctioned off ''the earlier portions'' of his collection in 1990. But he kept the more recently minted dimes, and he kept adding newly minted dimes to his post-auction collection.
        At his death, Mr. Lovejoy was first vice president and a member of the executive committee of the American Numismatic Society, which is based in New York.
        Mr. Lovejoy was born and raised in Janesville, Wis., and went on to graduate from Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., and in 1941, with honors in history, from Yale.
        He served in the Army during World War II, seeing combat in France, received the Purple Heart twice and rose to the rank of major. In 1948, he graduated from Yale Law School.
        Besides his daughter, of Massachusetts, he is survived by his wife, Betty Foote Lovejoy; two sons, Charles F., also of Massachusetts, and Allen P., of Connecticut; seven grandchildren; and a brother, Lindsay A. Lovejoy, of Connecticut.
      