
        Alton Blakeslee, a longtime science editor of The Associated Press whose reporting covered everything from the first polio vaccine to heart transplants and space exploration, died on Sunday night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Port Washington.
        The cause was cancer, the family said.
        While others increasingly specialized, Mr. Blakeslee covered a diversity of science subjects, including medicine, nuclear physics and astronautics, and reported from Antarctica, China and the Soviet Union. As a result, he became one of the most widely read science writers of his day.
        The most satisfying assignment, he said, was following the emergence of the Salk polio vaccine in the early 1950's.
        As a reporter, Mr. Blakeslee honed a terse style for translating complex subjects into everyday language, often with an engaging touch of humor. Writing about an award for creating the most nearly perfect vacuum yet achieved in a laboratory, he began the article, ''A young scientist today won $1,000 for making the most of nothing.''
        Mr. Blakeslee won most of the honors in science journalism, including a writing award from the American Association for the Advancement of Science and three medical writing awards from the Lasker Foundation. He also received the George Polk Award in 1952. He also wrote two books on medical research.
        Besides being a former president of the National Association of Science Writers, Mr. Blakeslee was a co-founder and the president of the American Tentative Society, an organization conceived over late-night drinks with two science-writing colleagues.
        They mused that all knowledge, especially in science, was tentative and subject to revision as research uncovered new facts.
        With a modest endowment from one co-founder, Rennie Taylor, also of the A.P., the society from time to time held a party at which a scientist was honored for research confirming the tentative nature of knowledge.
        A recent recipient of the society's award was Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, the Harvard University paleontologist whose concept of punctuated equilibrium is a modification of Darwin's theory of evolution.
        Alton Blakeslee was born on June 27, 1913, in Dallas. He attended Duke University and graduated from Columbia University.
        After stints as a reporter in Wilmington, Del. and the A.P. bureau at Baltimore, he joined the wire service's staff in New York in 1942. He was a science writer and editor for the A.P. from 1946 until retiring in 1978. In later years, Mr. Blakeslee taught science writing at the University of Missouri, Syracuse University and Columbia.
        His was a family of science writers; his father, Howard Blakeslee, was the A.P.'s first science editor, beginning in 1927, and his daughter, Sandra Blakeslee, is a regular contributor of science articles for The New York Times.
        Besides Ms. Blakeslee, of Santa Fe, N.M., survivors include his wife of 60 years, the former Virginia Boulden; a son, Dennis, of Madison, Wis., and three grandchildren.
      