
        Nathan Skolnik, long the bane of organized crime, bureaucratic inefficiency and official skulduggery in New York State, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 86 and had been deputy commissioner of the State Commission of Investigation from 1958 to 1975.
        His wife, Rose, said the cause was kidney failure.
        By the time Mr. Skolnik took charge of the operations of the newly formed State Investigation Commission, he was known in law enforcement circles as a meticulously honest and incorruptible prosecutor who shunned the limelight.
        A lifelong resident of Manhattan who grew up on the Lower East Side, attended City College, received a degree from Brooklyn Law School and was in private practice just long enough to realize he did not like it, Mr. Skolnik became an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York in 1944 and remained in public service for the rest of his career.
        It was a reflection of his legal acumen that within a year of his appointment, Mr. Skolnik was in charge of settling more than $25 million in claims stemming from the crash of a bomber into the Empire State Building.
        It was a testament to his reputation for integrity that when J. Edward Lumbard Jr. became United States Attorney in 1953 and swept away two decades of Democratic appointees, Mr. Skolnik was one of the few Democrats retained. Before joining the state commission, he became the only prosecutor to head his office's civil and criminal divisions.
        Formed in the wake of the famous raid on a secret meeting of 63 Mafia chieftains at a rural retreat in Apalachin, N.Y., in November 1957, the commission was given a broad mandate, limited powers, a small staff and Mr. Skolnik.
        That was enough. With the full, ''go-get-'em-Nat'' backing of a panel of part-time commissioners, Mr. Skolnik set up a command post at 270 Broadway and was soon harrying miscreants all over the state: investigating airport cargo thefts, breaking up statewide gambling rings, spotlighting municipal corruption in Albany and exposing police corruption in city after city.
        As an advisory body, the commission had no arrest or prosecution powers, but it did have subpoena power and the authority to grant immunity, hold hearings and issue reports. Mr. Skolnik was a master at all four disciplines.
        When an investigation found widespread waste and mismanagement in the New York City hospital system, for example, his report led to the creation of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation.
        One of the commission's more spectacular cases began with an anonymous postcard wondering how a certain Syracuse resident had been able to operate a numbers operation openly at a certain address for 20 years.
        As Joseph Fisch, once Mr. Skolnik's chief counsel and now a judge on the Bronx Court of Claims, recalled it, it took little more than a phone call to learn that the man was a ward leader who regularly delivered a big vote to the local political machine. One wiretap later, the man pleaded guilty, but it was when he got out of jail and resumed his gambling operations with no interference from local authorities that the fun began.
        Mr. Skolnik simply played his immunity card, and when the man's detailed account of widespread police payoffs was spun out at public hearings, the repercussions were immediate. After the first day, the police chief resigned; after the second, his deputy quit.
        When hand-wringing Syracuse officials sought advice on replacements, Mr. Skolnik had already lined up two obscure New York City police officers, Patrick V. Murphy and William H. T. Smith. They whipped the Syracuse department into line; then, with Mr. Skolnik's blessing, returned to the New York City department as Commissioner and First Deputy Commissioner just in time to help Mr. Skolnik with one of his most eventful investigations, into the department's narcotics enforcement.
        By the time the dust settled, several narcotics officers had been jailed and entire bureaus had been shaken up.
        For all his investigative success, what sometimes seemed most impressive about Mr. Skolnik was his singular approach to public service. He regularly put in six-day work weeks, and he was so resourceful in leveraging limited resources and so scrupulous about his accounts that he not only routinely ended the fiscal year with a budget surplus, he raised eyebrows throughout state government. Rather than going on a year-end spending spree to avoid undercutting the next year's budget request, he insisted on giving the money back.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Skolnik is survived by a son, Richard, of Rockville Center, N.Y.; a daughter, Phyllis, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      