
        Saadallah Wannous, whose courageously caustic plays and social criticism about the Arabs' political decline made him one of the Arab world's leading playwrights, died on Thursday in Damascus, Syria. He was 56.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Though the Syrian Government suppressed several of his most provocative plays and film scripts, Damascus sent Mr. Wannous to Paris for medical treatment after his illness was diagnosed and eulogized its native-born writer yesterday on television and on the front pages of its state-owned newspapers, as did Arab-language newspapers throughout the world.
        Ali Al-Qaim, Syria's Assistant Minister of Culture, speaking to Asharq al-Awsat, a leading Saudi-owned daily published in London, called Mr. Wannous's death ''a cultural tragedy.''
        Mr. Wannous was among the most highly regarded members of what is known as the 60's generation, those writers, artists and other intellectuals whose work was heavily influenced by the Arabs' defeat by Israel in the 1967 war. His play, ''A Night Party for July 5,'' which focused on the underlying causes of the Arabs' defeat, was among the most influential works to emerge in the aftermath of Israel's victory. It was praised throughout the Arab world for its brutal candor about the Arabs' political failings.
        ''He was a socially engaged and committed author who was highly regarded not only in Syria but throughout the Arab world,'' said Sadiqal-Azm, Syria's leading political philosopher.
        Most of his colleagues agree that some of Mr. Wannous's best works were written in the last six years,  after he learned he had cancer and  after about a decade of little new or original work.
        One of the last of his 10 plays, ''Rituals of Signs and Changes,'' savagely criticized Arab intellectuals who serve autocratic regimes. ''The King Is the King,'' which criticized Arab deference to power, recounts the story of a beggar who accidentally winds up on an Arab throne and is immediately hailed as a messiah. ''The Rape,'' his adaptation of a Spanish play, was banned in Syria  because it not only included an Israeli character, but also a sympathetic and hopeful dialogue between the author and that character, an anti-Zionist psychiatrist.
        In an interview in 1994, Mr. Wannous seemed delighted that Al-Baath, a state-owned newspaper for which he had once worked as culture editor, had at one point been barred from even publishing his name. ''Like Israel, I am an abstraction,'' he told a reporter.
        Mr. Wannous seemed to revel in the Syrian Government's ambivalence about his work. He argued that Damascus tolerated some of his more critical work because it enabled officials to show the West that Syrians enjoyed freedom of expression. ''My very existence is propaganda,'' he said.
        Several Arab intellectuals argued that he was also tolerated because, like Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, Mr. Wannous was an Alawite, a minority offshoot of Islam that neither orthodox Sunni nor Shiite Muslims consider truly Muslim. But Mr. Wannous, a left-of-center intellectual who yearned for Arab unity and detested efforts to identify Arabs along tribal or religious lines, made little of this affiliation.
        He was born in 1941 in Hosain al-Bahr in western Syria, and graduated from Cairo University in 1963 after studying journalism. Returning to Damascus, he worked in the Syrian Ministry of Education. He was heavily influenced by his graduate studies in Paris, and drew his inspiration from both traditional Arabic culture and modern artistic forms that impressed him during his studies in France. He sought to weave traditional Arab themes and characters into modern, Westernized forms. Several of his plays, for example, featured a hakawati, or Arab storyteller.
        In 1995, he resigned from Syria's Arab Writers Union to protest the union's expulsion of Adonis, a Syrian writer and poet, for meeting with Israeli writers at a Unesco-sponsored meeting in Grenada.
        Whatever the Government's objections to his politics, it helped support Mr. Wannous during his illness and urged that he be awarded this year's Nobel Prize for literature. Last year Mr. Wannous wrote a speech for Unesco that was read in many theaters throughout the world on International Theater Day. He was the first Arab writer to be so honored.
        Mr. Wannous is survived by his parents, his wife, Fayezeh Shawish, an actress, and a daughter.
      