
        John P. Snyder, a chemical engineer who made cartography history by developing a set of mathematical equations to convert images of the Earth taken from space into accurate maps, died on Monday in Olney, Md. He was 71.
        Although never formally trained in map projections -- the mathematical methods by which cartographers draw the ellipsoid Earth on a flat surface -- Mr. Snyder's series of 82 equations solved a problem that had vexed experts.
        Because of the double motion of orbiting spacecraft and the rotation of the Earth, images transmitted by Landsat satellites were subject to distortion. A mathematical formula by which cartographers could account for the distortion and transfer of a particular point on a satellite image to its accurate longitude and latitude on a map had long been sought, and the challenge for a solution was issued at an international symposium on geodesy at Ohio State University in 1976.
        Mr. Snyder, who attended the symposium while vacationing from his job as a senior engineer at the Ciba-Geigy Corporation in Summit, N.J., took up the challenge. With his $80 programmable pocket calculator, he put in hundreds of hours at home over the next few months doing calculations involving plane and spherical trigonometry and differential and integral calculus.
        ''I figured I was the last person who would be able to solve the problem,'' Mr. Snyder said in a 1978 interview with The New York Times. ''But I'd spent a lot of time with my calculator, making an intensive study of map projection formulas, and I'd run out of simple things to do.''
        For his work, Mr. Snyder was in 1978 given the United States Geological Survey's John Wesley Powell Award, which recognizes private citizens who make significant contributions to the survey's work. Two years later, he was hired by the survey as a research scientist in its National Mapping Division.
        His work was the culmination of a lifelong fascination with mapping technologies that began as a high school student in his native Indianapolis. After learning trigonometry, he taught himself the methods and formulas of map projections. Nevertheless, he opted to study chemical engineering and earned degrees from Purdue University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and joined Ciba-Geigy in 1958.
        After his pioneering work on the elusive satellite mapping equations, Mr. Snyder became a respected expert. He was president of the American Cartographic Association in 1990-91 and a former secretary of the Washington Map Society, and from 1986 to 1991 was a lecturer on map projections at George Mason University. He also wrote seven books on map projections, including ''Flattening the Earth: Two Thousand Years of Map Projections'' (University of Chicago, 1993).
        Survivors include his wife, Jeanne Kallmeyer Snyder of Sandy Spring, Md.; a daughter, Carolyn S. Mead of Boulder, Colo.; a brother, David A. Snyder of Beech Grove, Ind., and a sister, Anne S. Lawrence of West Hills, Calif. Another daughter, Barbara Ruth Snyder, died in 1983.
      