
        Michael J. Murphy, who served as the New York City Police Commissioner during a tumultuous period in the 1960's punctuated by riots and bitter accusations of police brutality, died early yesterday at his home in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83.
        He died of natural causes, his daughter-in-law, Ann Fenichel, said.
        Mr. Murphy, who was appointed Police Commissioner by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1961, was also a scholar, a lawyer, an administrator and an educator.
        Speaking with the tough inflection of New York, Mr. Murphy was well regarded by members of the police force. The department's morale rose sharply in the months after his appointment, according to a survey of more than 100 city police officers that was taken at the time.
        When he resigned in 1965 after four years and four months as Police Commissioner, he had resisted, to the last, demands by civil rights groups for the establishment of a civilian review board to investigate charges of police brutality.
        He was considered stern with lawbreakers, stern with what he considered ''racial extremists'' and stern with his own men, but swift to back them up against ''outside'' pressure.
        Mr. Murphy led the force during a time of tense relations with civil rights groups. In the spring of 1964, civil rights demonstrators blocked the Triborough Bridge and chained themselves to an iron grille outside the Commissioner's office. When the World's Fair opened in April, demonstrators blocked the entrances to the New York City Pavilion.
        Riots exploded in July 1964 in Harlem and the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, after the killing of a 15-year-old black youth by Police Lieut. James J. Gilligan. The police lieutenant was suspended during a departmental investigation and later cleared of wrongdoing in the fatal shooting.
        Mr. Murphy was also Commissioner in March 1964 when New York City was stunned by the horrific death of Catherine Genovese, who was stabbed on a street in Queens while 38 witnesses kept silent.
        Mr. Murphy was born in Queens on July 19, 1913, and was a graduate of Newtown High School. He held a bachelor's degree from City College's Bernard M. Baruch School of Business and Public Administration, where he studied accounting; a master's degree in public administration from City College, where he graduated at the top of his class, and a degree from the Brooklyn Law School, where he graduated summa cum laude. He received all three degrees while working as a police officer.
        After high school, Mr. Murphy joined an insurance company, but the indoor life did not suit him, so he became a state trooper. But after two years, he returned to the city and became a court attendant. He joined the Police Department in 1940, and five years later, at 32, he became a sergeant, the youngest on the force.
        In 1954, Mr. Murphy was made a deputy inspector, in charge of the Police Academy. Soon afterward, he was named a full inspector.
        Mr. Murphy took a leave from the police force in 1955 to become executive director of the New York-New Jersey Waterfront Commission; his adversaries were dock racketeers. He returned to the police force in 1959 and was made a four-star chief inspector and head of the department's uniformed force in 1960. He became Police Commissioner in February 1961, succeeding Stephen P. Kennedy.
        When Mr. Murphy resigned as Police Commissioner, he became president of the National Automobile Theft Bureau, an organization set up by insurance companies to combat car theft.
        Mr. Murphy is survived by three children, Patricia Howley of Port Jefferson Station, N.Y., Francis C. Murphy of Manhattan and Mary Ellen Quinn of Maine; a sister, Agnes Kirby of Sag Harbor, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      