
        Robert H. Krieble, a co-founder and former chief executive of the Loctite Corporation and a former vice chairman of the Heritage Foundation, the conservative policy research institute, died on May 8 at his home in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 80.
        Mr. Krieble, a chemist, founded Loctite with his father, Vernon K. Krieble, also a chemist, in 1953. The company was originally called American Sealants, but was renamed in 1956 for loctite, a sealant developed by Robert Krieble that bonds metal to metal.
        After his father died in 1964, Mr. Krieble was named president and chief executive, and in 1976 he became chairman. He served as chairman and chief executive from 1980 through 1985, and as chairman for an additional year until he retired.
        In addition to loctite, the company, based in Hartford, produces other sealants, engineering adhesives, coatings, lighting systems and auto body repair materials for the industrial and domestic markets. Loctite became a subsidiary of Henkel, a German company, this year.
        During his career, Mr. Krieble personally received more than a dozen patents for silicones, adhesives and a petrochemical processing method.
        Mr. Krieble joined the board of the Heritage Foundation in 1978. He was named vice chairman of the foundation in 1985. He served as chairman of the institute's finance committee from 1987 through 1996, a period when the organization's budget grew to more than $25 million a year from less than $5 million.
        Mr. Krieble formed the Krieble Institute in 1989 to promote democracy and economic freedom in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. The organization now sends educators to former Soviet bloc and Eastern European countries.
        Mr. Krieble graduated from Haverford College in 1935 with a degree in chemistry, and received a doctorate from Johns Hopkins University in 1939. He joined the Socony Vacuum Oil Company, and then the General Electric Company in 1943. Mr. Krieble remained with General Electric, rising from research chemist to general manager of the chemical development department, until he left in 1956 to work full time at Loctite.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Brayton Krieble, of Old Lyme; his son, Frederick, of the Turks and Caicos Islands; his daughter, Helen E. Krieble, of Marlborough, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      