
        Dana C. Creel, whose philanthropic hand helped mold the Rockefeller Brothers Fund into an eclectic charitable organization, died last Thursday night at his home, Haisdan Farm in Sharon, Conn.
        He was 84, said Fraser P. Seitel, an adviser to the Rockefeller family.
        Mr. Creel, who headed the Rockefeller Brothers Fund from 1950 to 1975, began his career as a banker after graduating from Emory Law School in 1939. He quickly found a calling in philanthropy when representatives for the Rockefeller family invited him to become the fund's financial adviser later that year.
        During his tenure as president and director of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Mr. Creel dispersed $150 million to a variety of causes, many of them contentious at the time.
        Among the biggest beneficiaries were groups working for integration in the South. Money was given to the Southern Regional Council to study ways of integrating communities and to the National Urban League for the development of the Skills Bank, which recruited blacks for industry and government. Grants were also set up for members of minority groups wanting to attend law school.
        He also gave to groups that furthered women's education at a time when many people opposed it, and he championed birth control and cancer research. His choices of charities and his low-key style made him a maverick among directors of groups like the Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Endowment.
        A $6 million donation helped create the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mr. Creel, who was born in Smyrna, Ga., and also attended Harvard Business School, joined the Army in World War II, becoming a second lieutenant in a counterintelligence unit in Asia. Economic development programs in devastated areas of Asia, Latin America and Africa also benefited from his largesse.
        ''Dana Creel was an innovative giver who directed money to places that were not particularly prominent or popular at the time,'' Mr. Seitel said. ''These were not the typical interests of wealthy people, and he helped change the focus of giving.''
        Mr. Creel is survived by his wife, Jane Haislip Creel of Sharon; a sister, Virginia Creel Clark of Tucson, Ariz., and a nephew, David Clark of Concord, Mass. Mr. Creel had no children.
      