
        Frank Slocum, a former major league baseball executive and award-winning television writer who later devoted himself to aiding former players in need of financial assistance, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, according to his family.
        Mr. Slocum was the first and only executive director of the Baseball Assistance Team, a nonprofit organization formed in 1986 that has distributed $6 million to some 400 former major league and Negro league players with financial, medical and personal problems.
        ''He loved baseball and he loved helping people,'' said Joe Garagiola, the president of the organization, known as B.A.T.
        Mr. Slocum was the youngest of four sons of Bill Slocum, a sportswriter for The New York American and other newspapers.
        After naval service in World War II, he worked in the National League offices in 1946 and then served as an executive with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947 and 1948.
        In 1949, he returned to the National League office, and from 1951 to 1965 he was an assistant to Commissioner Ford Frick. His duties included work in connection with the All-Star Game, stadium operations during the World Series and serving as a liaison between the commissioner and players.
        In 1963, Mr. Slocum began a second career as a television and radio writer and an author. He was the writer for radio and television programs in which Mr. Garagiola was the host, and received a George Foster Peabody Award in 1973 for meritorious service to broadcasting in connection with the television program ''The Baseball World of Joe Garagiola.''
        In the 1970's and 1980's, Mr. Slocum wrote for an array of nationally televised programs, including variety shows at Ford's Theater in Washington and country music specials.
        Mr. Slocum also wrote the book ''The Game of Baseball'' with Gil Hodges in 1969 and supplied the text for three baseball card compendiums produced by the Topps Chewing Gum Company in the 1980's.
        He is survived by his wife. Patricia, and two children, Bill of Greenwich and Claudia of Washington.
      