
        Samuel Baron, a flutist and conductor who was a founding member of the New York Woodwind Quintet and the director of the Bach Aria Group, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        Mr. Baron was born in Brooklyn in 1925 and began his musical studies as a violinist before switching to the flute in high school. He studied music at the Henry Street Settlement, Brooklyn College and the Juilliard School. After graduating from Juilliard in 1948, he returned to study conducting.
        That year, he founded the New York Brass Ensemble, which he conducted, and the New York Woodwind Quintet, in which he was the flutist. He made many recordings with both groups.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Baron's work as a flutist eclipsed his conducting. He played in the New York City Opera Orchestra and was the principal flutist for one season, 1952-53, with the Minneapolis Symphony. As a member of the New York Woodwind Quintet, he gave premieres of Samuel Barber's ''Summer Music'' and works by William Bergsma, Ezra Laderman, Wallingford Riegger and Gunther Schuller. Mr. Baron left the quintet in 1969 but returned in 1980.
        In 1965, he joined the Bach Aria Group, replacing Julius Baker, who had become principal flutist of the New York Philharmonic. One of his most notable accomplishments in his work with that ensemble was a transcription of Bach's ''Art of the Fugue'' for wind quintet and string quartet.
        In 1980, Mr. Baron became director of the Bach Aria Group, which became a resident ensemble at the State University at Stony Brook, N.Y., and was renamed the Bach Aria Festival and Institute. He was also the assistant conductor of the Musica Aeterna concerts starting in 1981.
        Mr. Baron taught at Stony Brook starting in 1966 and the Juilliard School starting in 1971. He had also been on the faculties at Yale (1966 to 1968) and the Mannes College of Music (1969 to 1972).
        He is survived by his wife, Carol; a son, David, of Venice, Calif., a daughter, Pamela, of Manhattan, and a sister, Sydel Fishman.
      