
        Aaron E. Henry, the gruff, blunt-speaking pharmacist who led the drive for racial equality in Mississippi all the way from the fire storms of the 1960's to a seat in the State Legislature and a position of power in the Democratic Party, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Clarksdale. He was 74 and until he stepped down in 1993 had spent a third of a century as the decidedly activist chairman of the state branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        His family said Mr. Henry, who had been hospitalized several times since suffering a stroke last December, died of congestive heart failure.
        In a campaign for racial justice that enlisted thousands of anonymous foot soldiers and produced a number of prominent leaders, the man they all knew as Doc was in the forefront of every significant boycott, sit-in, protest march, rally, voter registration drive and court case.
        He was, for example, the leader of the integrated Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party delegation that tried unsuccessfully to unseat the segregationist regular Democratic delegation from the state at the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City 1964. After winning recognition of the national party in 1968, the Freedom Democrats merged with the party regulars in 1976, paving the way for the election of the first black member of the Legislature since Reconstruction.
        And it was a lawsuit he filed that led to the reapportionment that cleared the way in 1980 for the election of a dozen more black representatives, among them Mr. Henry, who held his seat until last year.
        A sharecropper's son who was born on a farm in rural Tallahatchie County, Mr. Henry attended high school in nearby Clarksdale, a center of the Delta region of northwestern Mississippi. He later attributed his fierce sense of racial justice to a grandmother who schooled him in the notion that he was as good as any white man. ''They put on their pants the same way you do,'' she told him, ''one leg at a time.''
        It was a lesson he took with him to the Army in 1943. Before he was discharged in 1946, Mr. Henry, who was stationed in Hawaii, had participated in his first protest: a demand for integrated housing in the military.
        At Xavier University in New Orleans, where he obtained a pharmaceutical degree on the G.I. Bill in 1950, his leadership abilities emerged: He was president of his junior and senior classes and of the student body his senior year.
        After he and a Xavier classmate opened a pharmacy in Clarksdale, Mr. Henry quickly rose to leadership in the local black community. He  dispensed prescription medicines and civil rights aphorisms at the Fourth Street drugstore, which was soon a social and strategy center.
        Mr. Henry, who joined the nearly moribund state chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. in 1954, agitated so much for a frontal assault on segregation that he was elected president in 1960. The organization and the state have not been the same since.
        Within a year Mr. Henry had organized his first action, a boycott of stores where clerks did not address black customers as Miss or Mister, and recorded the first of what Mr. Henry eventually tallied as 38 arrests.
        By 1963 Mr. Henry had been so active in organizing and leading so many picket lines and other protests, that a White Citizens' Council newsletter branded him as one of the 10 leading opponents of segregation in the state, a distinction that helps explain why his store was fire-bombed once and his house twice.
        When he was not in the thick of the action, Mr. Henry was often a footnote to civil rights history in Mississippi. It was a speech he gave at Queens College, for example, that inspired an idealistic student named Andrew Goodman to spend the summer of 1963 as a voter registration volunteer in Mississippi, where he and two other volunteers, James E. Chaney and Michael H. Schwerner, became martyrs to the cause when they were murdered by white supremacists.
        And when another civil rights leader, Medgar Evers, was slain in his driveway in June 1963, he was returning home after dropping Mr. Henry off at the airport after a church rally. Mr. Henry was later told that a coin flip had decided that Mr. Evers and not he would be assassinated.
        If the fire-bombings of his home and store and an array of other attacks had not intimidated him, the Evers slaying only inflamed Mr. Henry to more daring action.
        As he explained it years later, ''Ever since Medgar died, I have been making sure he didn't die in vain.''
        Mr. Henry secured one of his most satisfying triumphs as the result of a mock campaign for governor in 1963 to demonstrate the potential power of a black vote in Mississippi. The state's largest television station refused to sell him air time because of his race, and six years later the Supreme Court stripped the station of its license. Eventually Mr. Henry put together a black-dominated syndicate that bought it. It became the first black-owned station in the state.
        In the mid-1980's, Mr. Henry outmaneuvered a group of insurgents who sought to oust him from his N.A.A.C.P. post. He at first announced he would not seek another one-year term, and then, on the eve of the state convention, after his opponents had relaxed, said he had changed his mind and was overwhelmingly re-elected.
        Mr. Henry. whose wife, Noelle, died three years ago, is survived by a daughter, Rebecca, of Clarksdale; a sister, Thelma Johnson of St. Louis, and two grandchildren.
      