
        Daniel Saidenberg, a cellist, conductor and art gallery owner who supported an annual series of faculty recitals at the Juilliard School, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Mr. Saidenberg was born in 1906 in Winnipeg, Canada, and began his performing career, accompanied by his brother Theodore, a pianist, by playing in cinemas and tearooms. He studied at the Paris Conservatory and the Juilliard School and was a member of the cello section of the Philadelphia Orchestra for three years starting in 1926. In 1930 he joined the Chicago Symphony. He also pursued a career as a recitalist after becoming the first cellist to win the Walter W. Naumberg International Competition, in 1929.
        During his years with the Chicago Symphony, Mr. Saidenberg formed the Saidenberg Sinfonietta, which gave monthly concerts and toured the Midwest, and from 1930 to 1937 he was the head of the cello department at the Chicago Musical College. He was also a guest conductor with the Chicago Symphony, the Cincinnati Symphony and the Philadelphia Orchestra.
        In 1940, Mr. Saidenberg became conductor of the Alka Seltzer Radio Hour on NBC, and was the artistic director of the Town Hall Music Forum, where he conducted new music concerts. He also formed a chamber orchestra, the Saidenberg Little Symphony, the resident orchestra at the 92d Street Y from 1948 to 1957. He was a founder of the Connecticut Symphony Orchestra, and its music director from 1947 to 1953.
        In 1950, Mr. Saidenberg and his wife, Eleanore, founded the Saidenberg Gallery in Manhattan. The gallery displayed works by Picasso, Klee, Braque, Gris, Kandinsky and Miro.
        Mr. Saidenberg is survived by his wife and two sons, Lawrence and Robert, both of Manhattan.
        Correction:  May 23, 1997, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about the cellist, conductor and gallery owner Daniel Saidenberg misspelled the name of the musical competition he won in 1929. It is the Walter W. Naumburg International Competition, not Naumberg.
      