
        Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, who used a household blender to do experiments that made him a Nobel laureate by proving that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information,  died on Thursday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 88.
        Dr. Hershey, who did much of his work at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island, shared a Nobel Prize in 1969 with Dr. Salvador E. Luria and Dr. Max Delbruck for their work in discoveries concerning the genetic structure of viruses and  how they replicate, which provided new insights into viral diseases and inheritance.
        By the time he was honored by the Swedish Nobel Committee, Dr. Hershey had been engaged in his field of research for decades. Indeed, when he won his prize, other scientific leaders said that without his work, Dr. James D. Watson and Dr. Francis H. C. Crick would not have been able to accomplish their own work for which they had been awarded a Nobel seven years earlier: development of their helix model of DNA, which determined its molecular structure.
        Very little was known about viruses when Dr. Hershey and the men who would become his co-laureates, each working independently of the others, began research on them in the 1930's. To learn more about them, and about the basic nature of heredity, the three researchers focused on bacteriophages, viruses that infect bacteria.
        Until then, geneticists had used a classic visual approach, like looking at chromosomes through a microscope. But Dr. Hershey and his colleagues began changing the field by focusing on the molecular level, working with bacteriophages that they could not see.
        ''So they had to infer much about what was going on, and many scientists were skeptical that such an approach would lead to anything,'' Dr. Bruce Stillman, director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, said in an interview yesterday.
        The three scientists became the nucleus of what was known as ''the phage group,'' researchers who worked with bacteriophages.
        At Cold Spring Harbor beginning in 1945, Dr. Hershey and colleagues taught courses on phages to help scientists solve the mystery of how viruses replicate. In the next two decades, the field of molecular biology that he helped pioneer exploded, and the courses became a mainstay of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, attracting scientists from around the world.
        When Dr. Hershey, Dr. Luria and Dr. Delbruck were given the Nobel Prize in 1969, many experts asked why it had taken the Swedish Nobel Committee so long to recognize the three pioneers.
        In her book ''Scientific Elite: Nobel Laureates in the United States,''  Dr. Harriet Zuckerman said that ''before the prize finally came to the three founding fathers in 1969, it had gone to 15 molecular biologists and biochemists for investigations built on foundations the three pioneers had laid down.''
        Alfred Day Hershey was born on Dec. 4, 1908, in Owosso, Mich., and grew up near Lansing. He developed an interest in bacteriology as an undergraduate at Michigan State University and went on to earn a doctorate in chemistry there in 1934. At the time, his main interest was the bacterium that causes brucellosis, or undulant fever.
        After getting his doctorate, he joined the faculty of Washington University in St. Louis, where he began research in immunology. As he  moved up the academic ladder, a colleague enticed him to work in the relatively new field of phages.
        By 1945, Dr. Hershey and Dr. Luria, working independently, had shown that the phage viruses and the bacteria they infect can undergo spontaneous mutations. Later, Dr. Hershey and Dr. Delbruck independently showed that when two different virus particles infect a cell at the same time, the two viruses can exchange segments of DNA to give rise to a new, hybrid virus.
        In 1950, Dr. Hershey moved to the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. Two years later he and his assistant, Martha Chase, performed their famous blender experiments, in which they used phages to show that DNA, not its associated protein, carried genetic information.
        In those crucial experiments, Dr. Hershey and Ms. Chase used differing radioisotopes to trace the path of the two main components of a phage from bacteria known as E. coli. They labeled the DNA core with radioactive phosphorus and labeled the protein coat of the phage with radioactive sulfur.
        Dr. Hershey used the blender as an agitator to separate the protein coat from the DNA core, and showed that only DNA entered the bacteria at the time of infection. The phage injected DNA into a bacterial cell and left the protein coat on the outside, and it was the injected DNA that led to production of a new phage, including the protein.
        That refuted the argument, made by some scientists, that it was protein that conveyed the genetic information for infection, growth and development. Dr. Watson, now president of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, later wrote that Dr. Hershey's experiment ''was thus a powerful new proof that DNA is the primary genetic material.''
        Dr. Hershey was a tall, slim man who liked to spend his spare time reading or planting trees, or in a woodworking shop near his laboratory. He retired from active research in 1972 and pursued other interests,  including music and computers.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Harriet Davidson, and a son, Peter M., who lives in Texas.
      