
        Barry Bryant, a writer on Tibetan Buddhism who was also an artist, died on May 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 56.
        The cause was renal cell cancer, his companion, Gregory Durgin, said.
        Mr. Bryant was a painter and musician strongly influenced by Tibetan Buddhism. In 1973 he founded the Samaya Foundation in Manhattan, a nonprofit organization dedicated to spreading Tibetan culture in the United States. (Samaya is the Sanskrit word for vow or commitment.)
        In the spring of 1988, the foundation brought Tibetan monks to New York City from the Namgyal monastery in India to create the Wheel of Time sand mandala at the American Museum of Natural History. The mandala -- a large, colorful, circular meditational image of intricate design -- was made entirely of sand painstakingly poured from small funnels. It took over two weeks to complete; it was then ritually destroyed, its contents carried in procession to the banks of the Hudson  and scattered on the water.
        The mandala was recreated in other cities in the United States and Europe thereafter. In 1993, Mr. Bryant published a book, ''The Wheel of Time Sand Mandala: Visual Scripture of Tibetan Buddhism,'' to which the Dalai Lama contributed a foreword.
        Mr. Bryant, born in Yakima, Wash., in 1940, studied Buddhism in India, Europe and the United States and briefly became a Tibetan Buddhist monk. His advocacy of Tibetan culture led him to produce films and television shows on the subject as well as the Dharma Music Festival and the Dharma Media Festival in TriBeCa in 1985-86, which brought together Western and Tibetan musicians and artists. Mr. Bryant's own paintings reflected his interest in the religion.
        In addition to Mr. Durgin, Mr. Bryant is survived by his mother, Carolyn Fritzi Bryant of Escondido, Calif.; two sisters, Nancy Bryant Frame of Yakima and Carolyn Bryant Scheyer of Bellevue, Wash.; and three brothers, Bruce David Bryant of Los Angeles, Frank Hollis Bryant Jr. of Orangeburg, N.Y., and Stanley C. Bryant of New York City.
      