
        The Rev. Dr. Samuel DeWitt Proctor, a preacher, educator and former pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, died on Thursday at Mercy Medical Center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was 75 and lived in Somerset, N.J.
        The cause was a heart attack he suffered on Wednesday, The Associated Press reported. His wife, Bessie, said he was stricken while talking with students at Cornell College, in Mount Vernon, Iowa, where he had gone to lecture.
        In 1972, he succeeded the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell Jr., the former Congressman, as pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, perhaps the most influential black institution in New York, at 138th Street and Lenox Avenue. Dr. Proctor held that post until 1989, when he was succeeded by the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d.
        It has been said that Dr. Proctor, a veteran administrator, refocused the church, which had been the base for Mr. Powell's move into politics, on its mission. Dr. Proctor said that during the two decades of his own tenure as pastor, the church's annual operating budget rose to more than $1 million from $146,000. In those years, he maintained a relatively low profile on public issues.
        When he retired as pastor, many  members said they would miss his low-key approach to problems confronting blacks and what has been called his ''quiet activism.'' Henry Knight, who had been a member of the church for four decades, said, ''Dr. Proctor worked a quiet magic.''
        For his part, Dr. Proctor said at the time that new challenges called for new approaches. ''The movement in the 60's,'' he said, ''had so much drama and impetus because the targets were so clear. The pain is still clear but the target is amorphous. How, after all, do you march against sin? We have as much trauma in 1989 trying to define the issues as we did in the 60's trying to muster the courage to fight for those issues.''
        Born and raised in Norfolk, Va., Dr. Proctor studied at Virginia Union University in Richmond, the University of Pennsylvania, Crozer Theological Seminary and Yale Divinity School and received a doctorate in theology in 1950 from Boston University. He was ordained in 1943 and went on to hold various posts in education, including the presidency of Virginia Union University, and administrative posts with the National Council of Churches, the Peace Corps in Nigeria and Washington, and the Office of Economic Opportunity and elsewhere before going to the Abyssinian Baptist Church.
        He was a professor of education at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1984 and preached, spoke and taught at numerous sites in recent years. He served on the boards of Middlebury College and other educational institutions. The books he wrote include ''How Shall They Hear? Effective Preaching for Vital Faith'' (1992, Judson).
        The first two grades of a college preparatory school named for Dr. Proctor are to open this fall in Ewing Township, N.J. Eventually the school, financed by tax dollars, is to comprise grades 7 through 12.
        Besides his wife of 52 years, the former Bessie Louise Tate, he is survived by his sons, Herbert, of Roselle, N.J., Timothy D. of Durham, N.C., Samuel T. of Detroit and Steven of New Brunswick, N.J.; five grandchildren; a great-grandson; a sister, Harriet Tyler of Philadelphia, and a brother, Dr. Oliver W. Proctor.
      