
        John Canfield Ewers, ethnologist emeritus of the Smithsonian Institution, historian of the West and chronicler of the Plains Indians, died on May 7 at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. A resident of Arlington, he was 87.
        Mr. Ewers was one of the country's foremost interpreters of American Indian culture. He spent years doing anthropological fieldwork among them, including three and a half years he lived with the Blackfeet. He also traveled across the United States and abroad to study American Indian artifacts in museums and private collections.
        He joined the Smithsonian in Washington as an associate curator of ethnology in 1946 and did much to improve its collections and particularly the educational exhibits, with his ideas for designing, installing and lighting the displays. He helped plan the Museum of History and Technology -- now known as the National Museum of American History -- and was named its director in 1964, just 10 months after it opened.
        He retired from the Smithsonian as its senior research anthropologist in 1979, when he was given the title of ethnologist emeritus. He also served as a trustee and research associate of the Museum of the American Indian in New York in the 1970's.
        He was the author or editor of scores of books, many of which remain in print, including: ''The Horse in Blackfoot Indian Culture, With Comparative Material from Other Western Tribes'' (1980 reprint), ''The Blackfeet: Raiders on the Northwestern Plains'' (1985 reprint), ''Plains Indian Sculpture: A Traditional Art from America's Heartland'' (1986), and ''Plains Indian Painting: A Description of Aboriginal Art'' (1979 reprint).
        John Ewers was born in Cleveland,  and graduated from Dartmouth College in 1931. He then studied a year at the New York Art Students League to develop his artistic talents and knowledge of the visual arts and materials.
        While Mr. Ewers was studying at Yale University for his master's degree, the anthropologist Clark Wissler stirred what became his lifelong interest in the Plains Indians, especially the Blackfeet and their neighbors.
        After earning his master's degree in 1934, he went to work as a field curator for the National Park Service, followed by a stint with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, in Browning, Mont., where he founded the Museum of the Plains Indian and became its first curator.
        He joined the Smithsonian after two years of wartime service as a Navy officer in the Pacific. Among his many honors was the Smithsonian's Exceptional Service Award, of which he became the first recipient in 1965.
        Mr. Ewers's wife, Margaret Dumville Ewers, died in 1988 after 53 years of marriage. He is survived by two daughters, Jane Robinson of Arlington, and Diane Peterson of Bozeman, Mont., and three grandchildren.
      