
        Dr. Forest D. Dodrill, a pioneer in the use of mechanical heart pumps to assist in heart surgery, died on Monday in Baltimore, where he lived. He was 95.
        In 1952, Dr. Dodrill used an artificial heart machine during surgery as a temporary substitute for the left ventricle, the main pumping chamber of the heart, which propels blood into the aorta. The surgery was performed on a 41-year-old man who had a defective heart valve.
        The operation was described at the time as one of the first known instances of survival of a patient undergoing heart surgery involving the use of a mechanical substitute for part of the heart.
        The machine used in the operation was developed by a medical engineering team headed by Dr. Dodrill at Harper Hospital in Detroit and was manufactured by General Motors researchers. The machine, which measured 10 inches by 12 inches by 17 inches, used air pressure and vacuum pumps to circulate the blood, which was fed through tubes inserted in the patient's chest.
        The original Dodrill-G.M. Heart was placed in the permanent collection of the Smithsonian Institution in 1954.
        Dr. John W. Kirklin, a former heart surgeon at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., who is now a researcher at the University of Alabama in Birmingham, said that Dr. Dodrill ''did a lot of hard work in the early days.''
        But Dr. Kirklin said the heart-lung machine, a device that duplicates the functions of the heart and lungs, had been the key that had opened the door to modern open-heart surgery. He said Dr. John Gibbon was credited with first using a heart-lung machine successfully during an operation in 1954.
        Forest Dewey Dodrill was born on Jan. 26, 1902, in Webster Spring, W. Va. After receiving a bachelor's degree from West Virginia University in 1925, he attended Harvard Medical School, graduating in 1930. Dr. Dodrill was an intern and resident at Harper Hospital in Detroit, and he got a master of surgery degree from the University of Michigan in 1942.
        Dr. Dodrill wrote many articles on his clinical research in cardiac surgery. He was president of the Michigan Heart Association and a member of the board of the American Heart Association.
        Dr. Dodrill is survived by three daughters, Dr. Judith D. Gardner of Yarmouth, Me., Christine D. Knoll of Harrison Township, Mich., and Mary D. Kane of Gibson Island, Md., and five grandchildren.
      