
        Ely Maurer, a State Department expert in the repatriation of artworks, archeological treasures, gold and financial property looted in World War II, died on Wednesday at his desk in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        Mr. Maurer died of a heart attack, said his son, Edward.
        Serving as a legal adviser in the State Department after World War II, Mr. Maurer helped determine the rightful owners of artworks looted from Jewish families by Nazi agents.
        Mr. Maurer's expertise was sought by lawyers representing the East German Government in a 1982 case involving two Durer portraits that had been stolen by an American soldier at the end of World War II. A United States Court of Appeals ruled that it did not matter that a Brooklyn lawyer who bought the paintings in 1946 was unaware that they had been stolen, and it ordered that the works be returned to their rightful owner.
        Mr. Maurer's expertise was also sought by lawyers working in the 1990's on the Quedlinburg case, which involved the theft of a dozen virtually priceless medieval treasures by an American soldier from a cave in the final days of World War II. Thomas Kline, one of the lawyers who helped arrange the return of the treasures to Germany in 1992, said  on Thursday that Mr. Maurer was ''the grand old man of the State Department who provided us with continuity and perspective because he had handled so many similar cases right after the war.''
        The son of poor immigrants, he was born in New York City on Jan. 10, 1913. He graduated from New York University in 1933.
        Mr. Maurer had a lifelong interest in Latin and Greek and intended to become a classics scholar. But, encountering a lingering bias against Jews in the field, he decided to study law and received his degree from Columbia University Law School.
        After working for two years for the City of New York, he joined many professionals who moved to Washington to join President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal Administration. He enlisted in the Navy after the United States entered World War II, and took part in the invasions of North Africa, Italy and Southern France. After the war he joined the State Department.
        In addition to his son Edward, of Lido Beach, N.Y., he is survived by two other sons, Stephen, of Swarthmore, Pa., and Russell, of Pepper Pike, Ohio; a sister, Beatrice Carver of Great Neck, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      