
        Kenneth Dale McCormick, who joined Doubleday in 1930 as a clerk  and became its longtime editor in chief and a major figure in American book publishing, died on Friday at the Kateri Residence, a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Anne Hutchens McCormick.
        Mr. McCormick's skilled performance as editor in chief has been called ''legendary'' by the trade journal Publishers Weekly. He began reading manuscripts for the giant Doubleday publishing house in 1935 and was promoted to editor in chief only seven years later.
        On the day in 1971 that he stepped down from that post, the three best-selling novels in the country were ''QB VII,'' ''Passions of the Mind'' and ''Throne of Saturn.'' All had been edited by Mr. McCormick. From 1971 to 1987, he continued to work at Doubleday, with the title of senior consulting editor.
        He was also a titan in the nonfiction world. In 1975, at a party celebrating his first four and a half decades in publishing, he put it more modestly. ''Through a kind of accident I edited books by a lot of public figures -- Eisenhower, Nixon, Truman, Dewey, Robert Kennedy.''
        John T. Sargent, a Doubleday editor who was president of the company from 1961 to 1978, wrote about Mr. McCormick in 1995: ''He was the most talented editor I ever worked with. He had a knack of treating a first novelist with the same attention, care, sympathy, editorial skill and enthusiasm as he would treat an Irving Stone or Robert Graves or an Eisenhower; they became equally his admirers and friends.''
        Over the years, Mr. McCormick found that some of the famous authors he worked with were flawless writers and some were, well, less so. At the party in 1975 he recalled: ''I was Maugham's editor after World War II, although it's ridiculous to say 'edit' because Maugham's stuff was so impeccable. Daphne du Maurier -- never had any problem with her, either. Such a professional! Sir Harold Nicholson -- I think I enjoyed him almost more than anyone. What a marvelous man!''
        But Richard M. Nixon was a more complex case. ''I enjoyed working with him on 'Six Crises,' '' Mr. McCormick said. ''He had the concept for the book. He had the whole thing in his head, but he said, 'I'm not much of a writer,' and I said, 'I know.'
        ''So Nixon talked the book into a tape recorder and another writer came in to help. Then Nixon said, 'Why don't I try the chapter on defeat? In the course of doing this I think I've learned to write.' Well, he wrote that chapter himself, and it was fine. He really was an example of someone who could learn.''
        The long roster of other famous authors whose works Mr. McCormick edited over the years ranges from Sir Rudolph Bing, Ilka Chase and Noel Coward through William O. Douglas and Hedda Hopper to Leon Uris, Earl Warren and Garry Wills.
        But Mr. McCormick had his failures. In a 1988 interview about biographies of political candidates, he said that after Doubleday published a big-selling campaign autobiography by Thomas E. Dewey in the 1940's, many more were to follow. ''Emboldened by success, we published one lousy campaign book after another,'' he said. ''But finally you learn the tough lesson that very few people make money on election books. And I can't think of a book that ever elected anybody.''
        His co-workers said he was even-tempered, but he studied writers' varying emotions. ''If an author has a real structural problem, or a character out of line, then you talk to the author,'' he said at the 1975 party. ''It's better to do it in person, not over the phone or through the mail, because then you can see the author's face and tell how far you can go with him.''
        Mr. McCormick was the co-editor, with Hamilton Darby Perry, of the 1990 book ''Images of War: The Artist's Vision of World War II,'' which  Herbert Mitgang of The New York Times called ''a highly original and historic work, which provides a rare worldwide portrait of the home and war fronts.''
        Mr. McCormick also championed First Amendment rights for publishers and authors and received publishing industry awards.
        He was born in Madison, N.J., the son of a Methodist minister, and grew up in Minnesota and Oregon. He received a bachelor's degree in 1928 from Wiliamette University, in Salem, Ore., and went on to serve with the Army Air Forces in World War II.
        His 1937 marriage to Elizabeth Tibbetts McCormick ended in divorce in 1950.
        In 1968 he married Anne Hutchens, the daughter of John K. Hutchens, a member of the Book-of-the-Month Club's editorial board. She is in the subsidiary rights department at Alfred A. Knopf.
        Besides his wife, Anne, Mr. McCormick is survived by a daughter, Dale, of Hallowell, Maine; two sons, Kevin, of Toronto and John, of Avon, Conn., and three grandchildren.
        Some of Mr. McCormick's big-league authors were also big-league readers. The Truman biographer David McCullough has written that Mr. McCormick once called on Truman early in the morning in his bedroom at the Waldorf-Astoria and found him ''sitting in a big chair with two stacks of new books on either side. Ken said, 'Mr. President, I suppose you read yourself to sleep at night.' He said, 'No, young man, I read myself awake.' ''
      