
        Dennis James, the perpetual television personality whose career as a ubiquitous game show host, announcer, actor and commercial spokesman extended from the primeval days of television to the present, died on Tuesday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 79 and had worked almost continuously since 1938.
        His son Brad said the cause was lung cancer, a disease diagnosed in January, 30 years after Mr. James, long the voice of Old Gold cigarettes, had stopped smoking.
        The more than half-century of commercial television has produced many performers far more famous than Mr. James, but from his first appearances on Allen B. DuMont's experimental station in Passaic, N.J., in 1938 to his latest commercial for Physicans Mutual Insurance Company of Omaha, which has been running this week, few, surely, have been busier longer -- or made more generous use of their celebrity.
        As the host of a variety of televised fund-raising appeals, Mr. James has been credited with raising more than $1 billion for charity, including more than $700 million from his annual United Cerebral Palsy telethons.
        If much of his career was spent as a peripheral figure, the announcer on Ted Mack's ''Original Amateur Hour,'' for example, and host of more than a dozen game, quiz and variety shows, including syndicated versions of ''The Price Is Right,'' and ''Name That Tune,'' there was a time when Mr. James was television's most famous star, the man who was wowing television America while Milton Berle was still in pinafores.
        Indeed, in 1946, when Mr. Berle's vaunted ''Texaco Star Theater,'' was two years away, Mr. James was riveting television audiences by giving comic hold-by-hold accounts -- and providing the bone-crushing sound effects -- for professional wrestling, the television rage at a time when the typical viewer was not a couch potato but someone standing on a sidewalk watching a flickering two-inch DuMont screen in a store window. The programs made Mr. James a star, and if his parents still wished he had become a doctor, by the early 1950's he had quite a television practice: doing 13 live shows a week -- and earning more than $500,000 a year.
        A native of Jersey City, Mr. James, whose original name was Demie James Sposa, graduated from St. Peter's College and passed up medical school to become an actor.
        After graduating from the Theater School of the Performing Arts at Carnegie Hall, he sold dog supplies at Abercrombie & Fitch before getting a job at a small radio station in New Jersey.
        Through a brother who worked for Mr. DuMont he shifted from radio to television, joining the new medium early and proving so flexible and adept that, although early records are skimpy, he eventually claimed two dozen television firsts.
        His family said these included the first television commercial (an unpaid 30-minute spiel for Wedgwood china to demonstrate television's commercial possibilities in the early 1940's); the first sports commentary, the first videotape appearance and the first audience participation show (''Okay, Mother,'' in 1948).
        By the time Mr. James returned from three years of Army service in World War II and obtained a do-it-all contract with the DuMont network, television was beginning to attract a wider audience,
        If the choreographed mayhem of professional wrestling seems an unlikely magnet, it was Mr. James's witty, tongue-in-cheek commentary that provided much of its early appeal.
        Knowing nothing about professional wrestling, he addressed his commentary to a mythical television ''mother,'' made up names for holds he didn't recognize and used a rubber dog bone from his Abercrombie days to create the crunching sounds of bones breaking while stripping his fingers down a balloon to create the effect of blood-curdling screams.
        Mr. James, who moved to Los Angeles in the early 1960's, established his own production company there and continued his career, completing his last program stint, a seven-year run as host of the syndicated ''Name That Tune,'' in 1981.
        Even after that he had continued to do commercials and his telethons, while raising money off camera by hosting celebrity golf tournaments.
        For Mr. James, a man who husbanded his money and invested it wisely, this amounted to combining charity with pleasure. His Palm Springs home looks out over the Mission Hills Country Club course, and until his final illness he managed to play every day.
        In addition to Brad, of Los Angeles, Mr. James is survived by his wife, Micki; another son, Randy, also of Los Angeles; a son from a previous marriage, Dennis Jr., of Washington; a brother, Frank Sposa, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      