
        Irwin Rosen, a Harvard Square bookseller who sold esoteric works to two generations of academics and weathered the rise of superstores, died on Thursday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge. He was 93 and lived in Cambridge.
        Mr. Rosen died of complications from a head injury he suffered in a fall on Memorial Day of this year, his granddaughter Jessica K. Miller said.
        Mr. Rosen was the longtime proprietor of Mandrake Books, which he bought in 1951 from two Harvard faculty wives.
        As an independent bookseller, Mr. Rosen enjoyed great autonomy, and from his perch behind a low divider, he often shared his philosophy on the state of the retail book industry.
        ''I'm sorry about the changes I see,'' Mr. Rosen said last year in an interview with The Boston Globe about the growing influence of large chain bookstores. ''But who am I to sit on the sidelines and complain about it?''
        Louisa Solano, the owner of the Grolier Poetry Book Shop in Harvard Square, recalled childhood visits in the 1950's to Mandrake Books. Mr. Rosen, she said, offered a salon-style refuge with a throw rug, parlor lamps and cloth- and leather-backed books. He yelled when she requested paperbacks, and he denounced the advent of best sellers and pulp fiction.
        Frank Kramer, the owner of the Harvard Book Store, an independent shop across from Harvard Yard, said, ''He was beloved at the same time as cantankerous and respected.''
        Mr. Rosen moved Mandrake Books to the Architects Collaborative building at 8 Story Street in Cambridge in the 1970's, and he tended shop there until his injury this year.
        For Ms. Solano, Mr. Rosen's death was yet another blow in a larger battle. It represents the loss of an important ally in an era of declining book appreciation among increasingly computer-oriented consumers. ''The barbarians are really at the gate,'' she said.
        The Harvard Square area still supports dozens of independent bookstores, including ones dedicated to antiquarian, revolutionary and foreign-language works.
        But Barnes & Noble recently began running the Harvard Coop, the giant retail department store opposite Harvard Yard, and some locals wonder which chain will follow.
        Ms. Miller, a Cambridge psychoanalyst, said her grandfather disliked joining organizations. He had not belonged to the New England Booksellers Association for at least the last seven years.
        Ms. Miller said Mr. Rosen was deeply pained when customers would seek book recommendations and then buy the volumes at Wordsworth, a nearby discount bookstore.
        Wayne Drugan, executive director of the New England Booksellers Association, based in Cambridge, said Mr. Rosen developed a reputation for rebuffing publishers' sales representatives, serving customers, searching for out-of-print books and studying his inventory.
        And study he did.
        Mr. Rosen specialized in books on art, architecture, philosophy and psychology, but there was scarcely a subject he did not know. Murray Cohen of Lexington, Mass., a psychoanalyst and longtime customer, recalled that when he expressed an interest in 19th-century Russian literature, particularly early Pushkin, Mr. Rosen recited from memory the latest editions published in the field. ''I was always overwhelmed,'' said Mr. Cohen, a professor emeritus of psychology at Boston University.
        Not surprisingly, Mr. Rosen made few concessions to the technological conventions of 20th-century commerce. ''He was radically opposed to computerizing the store,'' Ms. Miller said. ''He never even had a cash register. He had a drawer.''
        Born in New York City, Mr. Rosen grew up in the Bronx and attended Morris High School. In 1925, he graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College with a bachelor's degree in classics and literature.
        After Harvard, Mr. Rosen returned to New York, where he taught high school English, took doctoral courses in psychology at Columbia University and worked as a social worker. In 1939, as an envoy of Jewish philanthropic groups, he traveled to Paris and Amsterdam to help Jews flee the Nazis; after the war, he helped concentration camp survivors immigrate to Israel, the United States and South America.
        Mr. Rosen married his college sweetheart, Rose Koral, who died in 1958. He is survived by a daughter, Diana Miller, of Cambridge; four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
        For now, Mandrake Books is closed, and Mr. Rosen's family is not sure whether the business will reopen. Over the years, Mr. Rosen turned down repeated offers to buy his store.
        Mr. Cohen recalled hearing about one such bid, and he said there was no ambiguity in Mr. Rosen's response: ''He said, 'Why would I ever want to leave here?' '' Mr. Cohen recalled.
        In an age of marketing-driven window displays, Mr. Rosen's store showcased not guides to sensual yoga, but an elegant array of obscure art, architecture, psychology and philosophy books.
        ''It is better to sit in the back row and be discovered,'' he said on his 90th birthday, ''than to sit in the front row and be found out.''
      