
        J. Anthony Lukas, a driven, tenacious author and reporter who won two Pulitzer Prizes while exploring the social and racial fault lines of 20th century America, died yesterday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 64.
        Mr. Lukas, who chronicled the generational upheavals of the 1960's for The New York Times and later wrote a painstakingly detailed study of Boston's agony over school busing, had recently completed a new book about a politically charged murder trial in the West at the turn of the century.
        While the cause of death was not immediately disclosed, his agent, Amanda Urban, said that she had been told by Mr. Lukas's wife, Linda Healey, that he had apparently taken his own life. As of early this morning, however, an autopsy had not been done to pinpoint the cause of death.
        ''He'd been in a funk since he finished the book,'' Ms. Urban said. ''He'd convinced himself that it was not good enough, which was crazy because it was brilliant.''
        That kind of intensity was characteristic of Mr. Lukas, who spent years researching and writing his books. For example, in his prize-winning book on school busing, ''Common Ground,'' which examined the effects of court-ordered racial integration on three Boston families, he dropped one family in midstream and replaced it with another, because he felt that his initial work was ''not working dramatically.''
        ''He was absolutely brilliant,'' said the author David Halberstam, who worked with Mr. Lukas at The Times in the 1960's. ''He took journalism to a high intellectual level, yet he also had the doggedness of an old-fashioned police reporter. So you had a powerful combination.''
        That was recognized in the many journalism awards that Mr. Lukas won over the years, topped by his 1986 Pulitzer for ''Common Ground,'' which followed his 1968 Pulitzer for an in-depth investigation, ''The Two Worlds of Linda Fitzpatrick,'' for The Times.
        It was about the life and death of an affluent Connecticut teen-ager who was beaten to death, along with her hippie boyfriend, in the East Village. The article contrasted her affluent suburban upbringing and her squalid drug-ridden life in New York City, which her family knew nothing about.
        Three years later, Mr. Lukas wrote a book called ''Don't Shoot -- We Are Your Children!'' Through the lives of 10 disaffected young people, including Linda Fitzpatrick, it detailed what was commonly called the ''generation gap'' in those turbulent days.
        He saw such divisions as to a degree unavoidable. ''This generation, which has so scathingly exposed the hypocrisies of the older generation, is already beginning to live its own hypocrisies and, in turn, will inflict those hypocrisies upon their children,'' he said in a 1971 interview.
        Years later, after having left The Times, he turned his focus to the racial divisions tearing at America's social fabric and its soul, using as his vehicle the turmoil over school busing that was then dividing Boston.
        ''The title of my book -- 'Common Ground' -- suggests that I feel those of us who care about social justice need to think more about coalition building, more about what we have in common with some of these folks and less about what sets us apart,'' he said in 1986.
        Jay Anthony Lukas was a physically large, imposing man. But for all of his inner drive while working, he was unpretentious and relaxed in private, a man who could sing Bach cantatas yet who also loved to play pinball. He even kept a pinball machine in his apartment.
        He was born on April 25, 1933, in New York, one of two sons of Edwin Jay Lukas, who was a lawyer, and Elizabeth Lukas, an actress. He attended the Putney School in Vermont, and in 1955 he graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University, where he had been assistant managing editor of the campus newspaper, The Crimson.
        After serving in the Army and working briefly as a speech writer for a Massachusetts politician, he joined The Baltimore Sun, leaving it four years later to sign on with The New York Times.
        Early in his Times career, he was sent overseas, as a correspondent based first in the Congo and later in India. But it was after he had returned home in 1967 that he made his true mark. He told an interviewer in 1985 that ''there were things happening in this country which were infinitely more interesting and compelling than abroad.''
        The article on Linda Fitzpatrick was one example of his fascination with the American experience. At the time, it was seen by many as a groundbreaking piece of writing, one that used a then-unusual device of alternating different typefaces to dramatize the separate worlds that this young woman had lived.
        After winning his first Pulitzer, Mr. Lukas spent a year of study as a Nieman Fellow at Harvard, returning to The Times as a roving national correspondent based in Chicago.
        It was 1969, and the country was afire with political and racial protest. Mr. Lukas was at the center of it when he covered the trial of the so-called ''Chicago Eight,'' later the ''Chicago Seven,'' antiwar militants accused of conspiracy to incite riots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention that was held in Chicago.
        During the course of the five-month trial, Mr. Lukas introduced a phrase that became a classic of modern journalism. Forbidden by his Times editors from using a common vulgarity that the defendants shouted at the trial, he substituted the euphemism ''barnyard epithet.'' It inspired his first book, ''The Barnyard Epithet and Other Obscenities: Notes on the Chicago Conspiracy Trial.''
        Mr. Lukas's differences with editors at The Times over how to cover the Chicago trial led to disenchantment. He gave up daily reporting in 1970 to become a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine. A year later, he left the newspaper entirely, to become one of the founders of (More), a monthly magazine that looked at the press and television with a critical eye. During the 1970's he wrote for many publications, including a highly detailed series on the Watergate scandal for The Times Magazine. Over the years, he won many journalism awards before he turned his attention to book-writing more or less fulltime.
        Mr. Lukas is survived by his wife, an editor at Pantheon Books, and a brother, Christopher Lukas of Sparkill, N.Y., in Rockland County.
      