
        Jeff Buckley, a folk, rock and pop singer and the son of the folk musician Tim Buckley, died on May 29 in Memphis, the police said. He was 30.
        Mr. Buckley drowned while swimming in the Memphis harbor, said Lieut. Brenda Maples of the Memphis Police Department. His body was recovered Wednesday night after it was spotted from a riverboat.
        Mr. Buckley and a friend had stopped by the harbor on their way to a rehearsal studio last week. Mr. Buckley was wading and swimming  when a speedboat passed by, creating a wake. The friend, Keith Foti, said he turned away to protect the pair's stereo and that when he looked up, Mr. Buckley had disappeared. The police and the harbor patrol searched for Mr. Buckley with helicopters, scuba divers and foot patrols.
        His body was not found until a passenger on the riverboat spotted it floating in the harbor near the city's main thoroughfare, Beale Street.
        Mr. Buckley was born in Orange County, Calif. His father, whom he remembered meeting only once, was an influential, eclectic and introspective folk singer who died of a drug overdose at 28 in 1975.
        Jeff Buckley eventually settled in Manhattan, performing regularly in chatty, intimate sets (and sometimes washing dishes) at the small folk club Sine. His voice, at least as expansive as his father's five-and-a-half-octave range, his sense of humor and his good looks soon earned him a devoted following and a recording contract with Columbia, which released the four-song album ''Live at Sine'' in 1993.
        In concert, his repertory ranged from Leonard Cohen and Van Morrison songs to material by Edith Piaf and the Pakistani Sufi singer Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan.
        In 1994 Mr. Buckley released his first full album, ''Grace,'' which generated a minor hit, ''Last Goodbye.'' In the years that followed he performed on albums with the Jazz Passengers, John Zorn, Patti Smith, Rebecca Moore, Brenda Khan, Shudder to Think and Inger Lorre of the Nymphs and at concerts under such  whimsical aliases as Possessed by Elves, Crackrobats, Smackrobiotic and a Puppet Show Named Julio.
        Mr. Buckley was in Memphis to prepare for his second album, which he was scheduled to begin recording on June 30. He had written some two dozen songs for it.
        He is survived by his mother, Mary Guibert of Southern California, and a brother, Corey.
      