
        George P. Livanos, who helped build postwar Greece into a formidable merchant shipping power and as owner and operator of vast tanker fleets vigorously promoted efforts to protect the marine environment, died last Sunday at a hospital in Athens. He was 70 years old and in recent years had suffered from a rare blood disorder complicated by heart trouble.
        Although usually considered one of the select group of Greek shipping giants including the late Stavros S. Niarchos and Aristotle Onassis, known as the Golden Greeks, Mr. Livanos was not known for society page antics, but for the innovative way he built his shipping company, Ceres Hellenic Shipping Enterprises Ltd., into an international behemoth. Today it is Greece's largest merchant fleet, comprising 91 vessels with 4.6 million dead weight tons, more than double the vastly shrunken holdings of the late Mr. Onassis.
        Mr. Livanos, although often confused with two other Greek shipping magnates, George S. Livanos and George M. Livanos, was not a close relative, even though all the Livanos families traced their heritage to the Aegean island of Chios. But Mr. Livanos was born in New Orleans of a Greek immigrant father and American mother. Educated in Greece and at Hofstra University, where he studied business administration, he served in the United States Army in Japan and Korea after World War II.
        In the 1950's, he went to Greece to join the shipping company founded there after the war by his father and uncle. They had made a start partly by buying up surplus Liberty cargo ships produced during the war.
        David Glass, the editor of Naftiliaki, a Greek shipping publication, said Mr. Livanos was ''among the most innovative fleet owners.'' He developed a new type of lifeboat, and in the late 1960's, when the shipping industry was concentrating its energies on building ever larger tankers, he invented a new kind of cargo shuttle -- a small bulk carrier capable of ferrying goods from poorly equipped ports in developing countries to large freighters offshore. One idea that never came to fruition was to transport crude oil in partly submerged vessels, like submarines.
        To invigorate Greek tourism and provide fast links between the Greek mainland and the Aegean islands, Mr. Livanos introduced Russian-built hydrofoil craft, known as Flying Dolphins.
        But perhaps the cause that meant the most to Mr. Livanos was combating the damage to the environment caused by large-scale shipping. In the early 1980's, upset by the growing incidence of oil spills, he founded the Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association, to encourage shipowners to promote improved training of crews and better safety measures aboard ships.
        But this did not spare him controversy. In the early 1990's when he purchased several aging supertankers of more than 350,000 tons, environmentalists objected that they posed enormous risks of oil spillage.
        Equally proud of his Greek heritage and his American citizenship, Mr. Livanos maintained homes in New York and in Greece, although associates say he often said, because of his extensive travels, that his true home was ''in an airplane.''
        Mr. Livanos was an influential member of the Greek lobby in Washington, which vigorously defended Greek shipping interests whenever it perceived legislation as a threat, such as that calling for the enforcement of expensive double hulls for crude oil tankers. In 1988, he threw his backing behind the Presidential bid of the Democratic candidate and fellow Greek American, Michael Dukakis.
        Loyalty to his Greek roots prompted him to shun flags of convenience for his vessels, despite the enormous tax advantages that would have meant. Instead his ships invariably fly the Greek flag.
        In 1994 poor health prompted Mr. Livanos to hand day-to-day operations at Ceres Hellenic to his son, Peter.
        His survivors include his wife, Fotini; his son, Peter, and his daughter, Marina.
      