
        Ted Nathanson, whose career as a television director ranged from game shows and political conventions to 13 Super Bowls and 21 Wimbledon tennis championships, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 72.
        The cause of death was complications from lung cancer, said his son, Michael Nathanson.
        During his 37 years with NBC, Ted Nathanson also directed major league baseball, boxing, college football, hockey and golf telecasts.
        Mr. Nathanson rose to become coordinating producer of football and tennis for NBC Sports. He made early use of hand-held and remote-controlled cameras to provide new views of action and was considered adroit at finding empathic and unusual reaction shots to depict victory and defeat.
        Mr. Nathanson had a penchant for practical jokes, a taste for fancy clothes and a talent for playing goalie on the NBC Sports ice hockey team. In the network's production truck for thousands of events, Mr. Nathanson was not only nurturing to his staff, but also very intense.
        ''He dressed for a game like an athlete,'' said Mike Weisman, a protege of Mr. Nathanson's who became executive producer of NBC Sports. ''He put on a neck brace for his pinched nerve, and put on elbow pads. He would dig his elbows into the console in front of him so deeply he'd bloody them.''
        Mr. Nathanson was born Benedict Gimbel 3d in Philadelphia, part of the Gimbel Brothers retailing family. After his parents divorced, he claimed his mother's surname and began calling himself Edward.
        ''He was proud to be a Gimbel, but when he started in television, it wasn't something he wanted to broadcast,'' said Michael Nathanson, who is president of MGM Pictures.
        A prep school injury kept Ted Nathanson out of military service in World War II, but he volunteered for the American Field Service, driving ambulances in Europe for Field Marshall Bernard Montgomery's Eighth Army. After the war, Mr. Nathanson worked at CBS and ABC before joining NBC.
        He was the first sports recipient of the Directors Guild of America Lifetime Achievement Award.
        In addition to his wife, Edith, Mr. Nathanson is survived by Michael, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Laura, of Greenwich, Conn., and Carla, of New York City, and seven grandchildren.
      