
        Reid Shelton, a veteran actor and singer who created the role of Daddy Warbucks in the original Broadway production of ''Annie,'' died on Sunday in Portland, Ore. He was 72 and lived in Waldport, Ore.
        Mr. Shelton underwent heart surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital in Portland on May 29 after tests for knee surgery disclosed a heart blockage. It was a bypass operation, his second in 10 years, but he suffered a series of strokes and never fully recovered, a friend, Steve Cuda, said yesterday.
        Among his many Broadway and television roles, Mr. Shelton was perhaps best known for his stage portrayal of the softhearted, baldheaded comic-strip billionaire who adopts Little Orphan Annie in the hit musical by Martin Charnin, Charles Strouse and Thomas Meehan. He modeled Warbucks, Mr. Shelton later said, after the producer Roger Stevens, who became a friend and mentor after casting Mr. Shelton in the musical ''1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.'' Mr. Shelton's Warbucks, alternately gruff and gentle, was also likened to an avuncular Otto Preminger.
        Blessed with a thick head of hair, he was willingly shorn for the part (once the show hit Broadway) and shaved his pate daily with an electric razor.
        Starting in 1976 at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., he went on to play Warbucks for three years on Broadway, where he was nominated for a Tony, and two years on the road, racking up more than 2,300 performances. With his success, life imitated art: after five years of playing the Depression moneybags, he was able to buy not only his four-room Hell's Kitchen apartment but the entire five-story building.
        Mr. Shelton was born in Salem, Ore., studied music at Williamette University and the University of Michigan and served in the Pacific during World War II. He got his New York start as a singer at Radio City Music Hall, and appeared in shows like ''Wish You Were Here,'' ''By the Beautiful Sea,'' ''The Saint of Bleecker Street'' and ''Oh What a Lovely War.''
        He spent eight years in Broadway and touring companies of ''My Fair Lady,'' for much of the time in the role of Freddy Eynsford-Hill, singing ''On the Street Where You Live.'' In 1966 he appeared in Off Broadway productions of the classical Chinese  comedy ''The Butterfly Dream'' and ''Man With a Load of Mischief,'' and in the 70's he was seen in ''The Beggar's Opera'' and, on Broadway, in ''The Rothschilds,'' in which he played four roles. He also performed on Broadway in ''Wonderful Town'' and ''Canterbury Tales.''
        In his television career, Mr. Shelton appeared in David Storey's drama ''The Contractor'' and an ABC comedy show, ''Too Good to Be True.'' He also acted in soap operas and sitcoms. His last major television role was as the coach Ernie Donardo in the HBO series ''First and Ten,'' which ran for six seasons.
        Mr. Shelton was married in 1960 to an actress, Mari McMinn. The marriage ended in divorce four years later. He is survived by his companion of 24 years, Donovan Baker, and two nieces.
        Mr. Charnin, who wrote the lyrics for ''Annie,'' said yesterday that the Actors' Fund benefit performance of the musical's revival on June 17 at the Martin Beck Theater would be dedicated to Mr. Shelton. The benefit will include the current Broadway Warbucks, Conrad John Schuck, who replaced Mr. Shelton in the original Broadway production.
      