
        Sidney C. Sufrin, an economics professor and public policy specialist who headed a Government-sponsored economic mission to Spain after World War II, died on June 6 in Amherst, Mass., Phillip Shatz, the family's attorney, said. He was 87 and had been ill for some time with renal failure.
        At the time of his death, Professor Sufrin was professor emeritus of business economics at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and professor emeritus of economics at Syracuse University.
        A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a B.A. in philosophy and economics, and Ohio State University, where he earned his Ph.D. in economics, Professor Sufrin was from 1937 until 1939 a Rockefeller Fellow and staff member at the International Labor Office of the League of Nations in Geneva.
        Originally trained as a labor economist, Professor Sufrin held a number of posts from 1940 until 1954 in Government and the military dealing with labor-related issues that ranged from settlement of rubber disputes for the War Production Board to the economic recovery of Europe.
        For several years after the war, Professor Sufrin straddled the worlds of academia and government.
        In 1947, he became a professor of labor economics at the Maxwell School at Syracuse University. At the same time, he also served as a counselor to the American Embassy in London, a role he filled from 1945 until 1954.
        It was in the latter role that he was appointed chief of an Economic Cooperation Administration group for Spain. For several months in 1950 and 1951, Professor Sufrin and a team of American experts made a thorough survey of the Spanish economy for Washington intended to determine the costs of including Spain in what would become NATO.
        Professor Sufrin left Government service in 1952 and devoted all his energies to teaching.
        At the Maxwell School, where he taught until 1974, Professor Sufrin's courses focused on the use of the economic capability of society. He then moved to the University of Massachusetts, where he was a professor of business economics.
        During his long affiliation with Syracuse, Professor Sufrin lectured internationally and held visiting professorships at the State University of New York at Albany, the University of Michigan and Queensland University in Australia.
        Professor Sufrin's first wife, the former Grace R. deJong, died in 1970 after a long illness.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Irene C. Berman; a son, James Sufrin of Newport, Pa.; two daughters, Erica Sufrin Horn of Albany and Cobie Sufrin Russell of Dallas; two stepdaughters, Patricia G. Berman of Cambridge, Mass., and Judith Gillespie of Plymouth Meeting, Pa.; three brothers, Arthur Sufrin of Washington, Emmanuel Sufrin of Cherry Hill, Pa., and Herbert Sufrin of Honolulu, and nine grandchildren.
      