
        Dr. Stanley Schachter, who delighted in finding simple explanations for seemingly complex social behavior, died on Saturday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 75 and also had a home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Sophia.
        Dr. Schachter, a professor emeritus at Columbia University, was one of the few social psychologists to be elected to the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Judith Rodin, president of the University of Pennsylvania, called Dr. Schachter, who had supervised her doctoral work at Columbia, the ''greatest living social psychologist of our time.''
        Dr. Schachter's interests were wide-ranging, and he asked the kinds of questions about topics like obesity, addiction, emotions and the behavior of stock market investors that the public found interesting.
        In studies on obesity, Dr. Schachter found that people of normal weight ate when they were hungry and stopped when they were full but that overweight people ate because of other cues, like the presence of enticing food, the time of day and other external factors.
        Dr. Schachter found that the way food was presented helped determine how much an obese person would eat. ''He found that if you put peanuts under a light, fat people would eat them,'' said Dr. Don Hood, a colleague at Columbia. ''If you hid them in a dark corner, they wouldn't walk over to pick them up.''
        Dr. Schachter also liked to puncture the elaborate theories of others. In the 1970's, he and Dr. Hood challenged the efficient-market hypothesis of economists, which said that the stock market operated independently of the behavior of independent investors. They produced data that ran counter to that theory and showed that the psychology of individuals was affecting the market.
        The answer, Dr. Schachter said, was simple. So simple, in fact, that if the economists had asked their grandmothers what was going on, he contended, their grandmothers would have told them to pay attention to the fear and greed of individual investors if they wanted to understand the market. He coined the term ''bubba psychology'' (''bubba'' is ''grandmother'' in Yiddish) to describe this common-sense approach.
        Dr. Schachter's friends and colleagues were sometimes swept up by his experiments.
        When he became interested in the metabolic basis of cigarette addiction, Dr. Schachter persuaded friends near his summer home in East Hampton to join a study.
        He gave the friends cigarettes with different levels of nicotine but did not tell them which cigarettes they had been given. The friends kept track of their cigarette consumption and other activities and even kept daily urine samples in their refrigerators for graduate students to pick up.
        As a result of that study, Dr. Schachter came up with the idea that social interactions can affect the acidity of urine, which affects nicotine retention and, therefore, cigarette consumption -- a metabolic explanation for why smokers smoked more in social gatherings. Dr. Hood said that that idea had been validated since then.
        But the experiment was not trouble-free for Dr. Schachter's friends. ''It led to problems in some families, with people on the low-nicotine cigarettes going into withdrawal and getting hard to live with,'' Dr. Hood said. ''Husbands and wives were coming to Stanley to say, Will you please give him or her the real cigarettes.''
        Dr. Schacter's interest in why people become tongue-tied was aroused at a faculty meeting, said Dr. Robert M. Krauss, a psychology professor at Columbia, when he began keeping track of how many times each colleague stumbled for words by saying ''um.'' Soon he had students out recording professors giving lectures in various fields and counting up how many times they cast about for a word. He found that professors lecturing in the humanities were much more prone to do that than those in the sciences, and professors in the social sciences fell in between.
        But all professors showed the same tendency to trip over their tongues in interviews on another subject, leading Dr. Schacter to conclude that it was the subject matter, not the kind of person attracted to each field, that accounted for the differences. In the humanities, he said, the number of ways to voice a particular idea are far greater than in the sciences, leading to more indecision.
        Dr. Schachter was born in New York City in 1922. He got bachelor's and master's degrees from Yale University in 1942 and 1944, and, after serving in the Air Force, earned his doctorate in social psychology at the University of Michigan in 1949. After teaching at the University of Minnesota, the University of Amsterdam and Stanford University, he joined Columbia's psychology faculty as a professor in 1961. He became the Robert Johnston Niven Professor of Social Psychology there in 1966, and he retired in 1992.
        He won many honors, including the James McKeen Cattell Award, the Social Psychological Prize of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and awards from the American Psychological Association and the Society for Experimental Social Psychology. Dr. Schachter was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Science in 1976.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Schachter is survived by a son, Elijah, of New York City.
      