
        Sidney Silverstein, a New York carpenter who started at the bottom and became a nationally known expert in housing rehabilitation and a builder of affordable dwellings, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Silverstein was chairman of the Sparrow Organization, a Bronx-based enterprise he founded in 1981. Under his leadership, it developed some 10,000 housing units costing an estimated $500 million to build. The company also helped to construct or reclaim many thousands of homes.
        Sparrow developed mostly multifamily apartment houses in the city and its environs, but it also built single-family homes and garden apartments, among other types of housing.
        Mr. Silverstein, who was born in the Bronx, attended public school and learned the carpentry trade. He was hired by the construction firm of Bushman & Rosen in 1947 and worked his way up to foreman and construction superintendent.
        In 1960, he started A & S Construction, serving as a subcontractor for George Rosen, his previous boss. Together they tackled government-supported projects, like a series of six-story buildings insured by the Federal Housing Administration.
        In the early 1960's, his firm had a hand in developing shopping centers, tract housing and garden-apartment complexes. In 1967, he established Graphic Construction and, in partnership with Tishman Realty, rehabilitated apartments in Brooklyn, among other projects.
        That led to a venture in Greenwich Village known as Westbeth, one of the country's earliest artists' studio cooperatives. In 1970, Graphic was acquired by its partner, Starrett Housing Corporation, and Mr. Silverstein became a large stockholder in Starrett.
        He continued as president of Graphic through the 1970's and, as a rehabilitation specialist, worked on efforts to recover stretches of the Grand Concourse. Graphic delivered on contracts worth $200 million over that decade, much of it financed through the F.H.A. and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, as well as the city.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Adele Wilner Silverstein; their daughter, Bari Lynn Silverstein of Bayside, Queens; two sons, David S., of Rockaway, Queens, and Randolph J., of Pelham, N.Y., the president of Sparrow Construction; a sister, Lillian Silverstein of Florida; a brother, Bernie, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
      