
        Alexander C. McNally, an expert on fine wines and the director of the annual Heublein rare wine auctions from 1969 until 1984, died Wednesday at his home in Hartford. He was 62.
        The cause was heart disease, his wife, Tina, said.
        Mr. McNally became interested in wine as an undergraduate at Princeton University, when he was still too young to buy it legally. He would recall striding into a Princeton wine shop and asking the clerk, ''What do you have in a decent Pommard?'' The clerk, he said, was so taken aback that he let Mr. McNally open an account and never thought to ask his age.
        After Princeton, where he studied architecture, and the Harvard Business School, from which he graduated in 1958, he met Alexis Lichine, then a major figure in the wine world, at a party in Boston. Mr. Lichine was so impressed by the young man's knowledge and enthusiasm that days later he sent him a ticket to France on the Liberte.
        Mr. McNally moved into Mr. Lichine's Chateau Lascombes in Bordeaux and spent the next four years learning the wine business, literally from the ground up.
        He returned to the United States and in 1962 joined Heublein. The company had long imported ports and sherries but was about to move into table wines, Mr. McNally's specialty.
        He put together Heublein's first wine auction in New York in 1969 and was in charge of the annual event each succeeding year until the last one was held in Atlanta in 1984.
        Wine auctions in this country are common now, but 28 years ago they were exotic events that garnered considerable publicity for Heublein and for Mr. McNally, who proved to be as much a showman as a wine expert.
        Each auction featured rare old wines that he had ''discovered'' in a castle or an abandoned mansion or that had been offered to him by someone in a hotel lobby. He invested many a routine business deal with mystery and intrigue for the benefit of wine lovers and the press.
        The wine trade opposed the auctions, complaining that Heublein was both supplier and competitor, and the company gave up the auctions after the 16th in 1984. Mr. McNally retired from the company, which is now a unit of Grand Metropolitan P.L.C., that year.
        Alexander Campbell McNally was born in Lafayette, Ind. Among his forebears were the founders of the Barbasol shaving cream business and Rand McNally maps. He lived in New York and San Francisco before settling in Hartford. He was a member of various wine societies and an active supporter of the Hartt Music School of Hartford University.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a brother, Daniel, of Lafayette.
      