
        Gene Atkins Hill, the writer who created the cozy, sun-dappled place called ''Hill Country'' in Field & Stream magazine, died in Tucson, Ariz., on May 31. Mr. Hill, who lived in the New York area for most of his life, was 69.
        The cause was cancer, Cathy Lee Hill, his wife, said.
        Although Mr. Hill often scoffed at the term ''outdoors writer,'' he became a leader in the post-war generation of sophisticated writers who helped free the genre from the cliches and overt sentimentality that had previously been a staple of outdoor magazines.
        One of his contemporaries, Jim Rikhoff, described this fresh approach in the forward to one of Mr. Hill's books: ''Gene Hill writes for the classic 'Everyman,' and every man finds something in his writing that is personally meaningful. He saw something in a little thing -- a broken dog lead or an empty shotgun shell -- the rest of us missed. And he told us about it as only he could do, and we knew something more about what happened and about ourselves, too.''
        Born in Swartswood, N.J., Mr. Hill  served in Okinawa during World War II. Upon graduation from Harvard, , he worked as an advertising copywriter for several Madison Avenue agencies, including J. Walter Thompson, where he honed the terse, crisp style that eventually propelled him to the forefront of outdoors writing.
        At first, he moonlighted as an outdoors columnist for magazines including Guns & Ammo and Sports Afield. Then, in 1977, Mr. Hill, a passionate sportsman with a special affection for dogs, bird-hunting, and fly-fishing for Atlantic salmon and tarpon, left his day job to become a full-time columnist and associate editor at Field & Stream. In his monthly column, and later in more than a dozen books, Mr. Hill vividly -- and drolly -- brought to life the charms of his many outdoor pursuits. But he probably will be best remembered for his deep, often moving understanding of dogs and our relations with them.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Hill is survived by two daughters, Patricia Comly of Pennington, N.J., and Jennifer Hill of Whatley, Mass.; two brothers, Walter Hill of Newton, N.J., and Edwin Hill of Lincoln, Neb., and two grandsons.
      