
        Dr. John Lindenbaum, whose research signaled to the medical profession that some common drugs, imperfectly formulated and dosed, can compound the very conditions they are meant to relieve, died on Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 63 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Dr. Gerald E. Thomson, a colleague and dean of minority affairs at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. At his death, Dr. Lindenbaum was professor of medicine and associate chairman of the department of medicine at the college.
        Dr. Lindenbaum's central contribution to science grew out of three decades of clinical investigation in the field of nutritional anemia and the metabolism of folate, the biologically active form of folic acid.
        He also focused on vitamin B-12. His many papers detailed how shortages damage blood, bone marrow, the brain and other parts of the nervous system. He described vitamin B-12 deficiency as something that could affect people, especially the elderly, even when they are in other ways healthy.
        His inquiries led him to examine the subject of bioavailability, the rate at which a substance enters the bloodstream and becomes available to the body. This, in turn, determines the rate at which the substance takes effect.
        He studied digoxin, a very common heart drug of the digitalis family, found in the foxglove plant, whose beneficial nature had been known in antiquity. Digoxin increases the power of each heart beat but slows the heart rate when disease hastens it perilously. Dr. Lindenbaum discovered abnormalities in its manufacture that blocked its bioavailability in some patients. In fact, he discovered that different batches from the same manufacturer sometimes had different bioavailability.
        That research, conducted in the 1960's, established that the way the drug was manufactured and prescribed could actually worsen the kind of heart failure it was supposed to forestall. As a result, necessary adjustments were made in its formulation and prescription, and the Food and Drug Administration changed its testing procedure to help prevent other such problems. Digoxin continues to be prescribed in millions of doses annually.
        John Lindenbaum was born in Manhattan and graduated from Cornell University in 1954. He received his medical degree from Harvard University.
        He served as chief of hematology-oncology at Harlem Hospital from 1968 to 1986. Tending to patients with sickle cell anemia, he found that their condition worsened without an extra ration of folic acid, a consideration now part of standard herapy.
        Dr. Lindenbaum is survived by his wife, Shirley, and his brother Peter, of Bloomington, Ind.
      