
        In the last few years, multiple sclerosis has slowly stolen the strength in Joseph H. Hartzler's legs, forcing him to use a motorized scooter to get around the Little League baseball field where he coaches his son's team, and the aisles of the Federal courtroom in Denver where he was the lead prosecutor in the trial of Timothy J. McVeigh.
        Despite his illness, which was diagnosed in the late 1980's, Mr. Hartzler, an assistant United States attorney in Springfield, Ill., volunteered for the task of making sense out of the tens of thousands of pages of witness statements, forensic reports and other evidence pulled from the smoldering remains of the worst act of terrorism on American soil.
        Lawyers on both sides of the bar say Mr. Hartzler, 46, is a low-key, no-frills Midwesterner with a dry wit and a knack for making complicated cases sound simple without talking down to juries.
        ''He's also very fair,'' said Michael B. Metnick, a criminal defense lawyer in Springfield. ''His integrity is beyond reproach. He's a prosecutor I can turn my back on.''
        On the April day two years ago when terror exploded in the Heartland, Mr. Hartzler was driving his car through Springfield, listening to the horror on the radio. And as the body count in the remains of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City climbed higher and higher, including 19 children, Mr. Hartzler decided then and there that he wanted to help prosecute whoever was responsible.
        In the courtroom of Judge Richard P. Matsch, Mr. Hartzler maintained his soft-spoken manner and easy sense of humor. Early in the proceedings, when Judge Matsch asked Mr. Hartzler when he would like him to consider a motion, Mr. Hartzler swiftly replied, ''If it please Your Honor, I would like your consideration when you are most likely to render a decision in our favor.'' Both men shared a smile.
        Mr. Hartzler also showed his generous spirit in allowing other prosecutors to share the spotlight, including having an assistant United States attorney, Larry Mackey, give closing arguments.
        After his appointment to the case, Mr. Hartzler, a self-described ''child of John F. Kennedy,'' had told his hometown newspaper, The State Journal-Register, in his straightforward style that the reason he volunteered for the job was because ''I thought I could make a difference.''
        Before M.S. took hold, he once chased a purse snatcher through a Chicago subway station. The 5-foot, 9-inch prosecutor tackled him and held him in a headlock until the police arrived and took the thief away.
        Joseph Henry Hartzler was born  on Sept. 8, 1950, in Columbus, Ohio, to Rex and Merle Hartzler. The family soon moved to Worthington, Ohio, where Mr. Hartzler grew up. He graduated from Amherst College in 1972 and got his law degree in 1978 from American University's Washington School of Law, where he ranked first in his class. He became a Federal prosecutor in Chicago and for 10 years helped send bombers, arsonists, corrupt judges and  crooked businessmen to prison.
        Before becoming the United States Attorney in Chicago, Anton R. Valukas was a defense lawyer and jostled in court against Mr. Hartzler, who was already a Federal prosecutor. But Mr. Valukas was so impressed with Mr. Hartzler's style and smarts that when he became the United States Attorney he promoted Mr. Hartzler to lead the criminal division and, later, the civil division.
        Mr. Hartzler built his courtroom reputation in part when he prosecuted four Puerto Rican nationalists accused of a bombing campaign from New York to Chicago in the 1980's. Three of the four, declaring themselves prisoners of war, refused court-appointed lawyers and were convicted and sent to prison. The fourth defendant, who was represented by Michael Deutsch, received probation. The case, Mr. Deutsch told the Legal Times, was not much of a test of how good a prosecutor Mr. Hartzler was. It was too easy.  ''Three of the defendants were on a videotape, sitting at a table making bombs,'' he said.
        In 1989, Mr. Hartzler left the United States Attorney's office and joined the Chicago law office of Rudnick & Wolfe, where he did civil litigation, William J. Campbell, a partner in the firm, said. But two years later, Mr. Hartzler walked into Mr. Campbell's office and told him he was resigning, that he was tired of spending so much time away from his wife, Lisa, and their three sons, Alex, Adam and Matthew.
        He told him he was not only resigning, he was moving to Springfield where life does not zip past at 75 miles per hour. ''I tried to talk him out of it,'' Mr. Campbell said.
        The family moved to Springfield and Mr. Hartzler went back to work as an assistant United States attorney and began coaching his son's Little League team. He'd call up his big-city friends and gloat that instead of commuting more than one hour each way into work, it now took him about 10 minutes, adding precious moments to the time he could spend with his family. Then a bomb went off in Oklahoma City.
        With Mr. McVeigh's trial over, Springfield and family are apparently calling again. Mr. Hartzler has decided to return home and will not prosecute the man accused of being Mr. McVeigh's accomplice, Terry L. Nichols.
        THE OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING: Man in the News -- Joseph Henry Hartzler
      