
        Joe Ben Wheat, an archeologist and authority on weavings of the Navajo and other Indians of the American Southwest, died on Thursday at St. Anthony Hospital Central in Denver. He was 81 and had lived in Boulder, Colo.
        He died after a short illness, The Denver Post reported.
        Dr. Wheat was president of the Society for American Archeology in 1966 and 1967. He retired in 1987 after 34 years with the University of Colorado, where he was a professor of natural history and curator of anthropology at the university museum, which is on the university's main campus in Boulder.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Wheat analyzed the materials, dyes and structure used by the Navajo and Pueblo Indians in making blankets in the 19th century. That information helped him determine about when the blankets had been woven.
        He reported in scholarly articles that the crimson threads in many Navajo blankets, mostly dating from before 1870, had come from cloth that the Navajo had obtained by trading with the Spanish and then unraveled to use in their weaving. The reds and other colors in many late 19th century Navajo blankets came from chemical dyes.
        Dr. Wheat carried out similar analyses of blankets, sashes, kilts and other items woven by Pueblo Indians in what is now New Mexico and Arizona.
        From the 1940's through the 1960's, he took part in and directed archeological excavations at sites inhabited  by Indians in Arizona, New Mexico and Colorado. Much of his work involved prehistoric Indian settlements in southwest Colorado.
        Dr. Wheat was born in Van Horn, Tex., and received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a doctorate in anthropology from the University of Arizona.
        His writings include the book ''The Gift of Spiderwoman: Southwestern Textiles, the Navajo Tradition'' (1984, University of Pennsylvania Museum).
        Dr. Wheat married Frances Irene Moore in 1947. She died in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife of five years, the former Barbara K. Zernickow; and two brothers, Lou, of Apache Junction, Ariz., and William, of Las Cruces, N.M.
      