
        Tristram Coffin, an independent Indiana-bred journalist who cast a critical eye on official Washington and the military during almost half a century as a reporter, columnist, author and pundit, died on May 28 at a hospital in El Cajon, Calif. He was 84 and had turned out The Washington Spectator newsletter until 1993.
        His son, Stephen, said the cause was respiratory collapse.
        Mr. Coffin gently skewered President Harry S. Truman -- and half the Senate -- in ''Missouri Compromise'' (1947, Little Brown). An unabashed New Deal Democrat, Mr. Coffin's  chief complaint seemed to be that Truman was not Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Although they were considered bold at the time, his characterizations of Mr. Truman in retrospect  seem to be the quaint but affecting fumings of a man too polite to go for the jugular.
        In the book, Mr. Coffin described Truman when he received the Vice Presidential nomination: ''He watched the proceedings with the cheerful, wide-eyed wonder of the poor orphan boy who, quite by miracle, gets an electric train for Christmas. He didn't quite understand it. But it was swell.''
        The success of the book came as something of a surprise because Mr. Coffin was a comparative newcomer to the Washington press corps.
        Mr. Coffin was born in Hood River, Ore., where his father had joined some fellow Yale graduates in an abortive apple-growing venture, but he grew up in Indianapolis.
        After graduating from Depauw University, Mr. Coffin went to work for The Indianapolis Times and covered the gangster John Dillinger.
        A statehouse assignment was short lived. Succumbing to a partisan pull, Mr. Coffin abandoned journalism to become the press secretary to Gov. Clifford Townsend, then followed him to Washington when Mr. Townsend became an assistant secretary of agriculture.
        Through a friendship with the Hoosier broadcaster Elmer Davis, who was then running the Office of War Information, Mr. Coffin signed on, then re-entered journalism as a radio reporter, first covering the White House for CBS and later Capitol Hill for ABC.
        Mr. Coffin was a reporter for Drew Pearson's Washington Merry-Go-Round, and when ''Missouri Compromise'' came out, he used the book's success to establish his own syndicated column, Tris Coffin's Daybook, while continuing with ABC.
        When Mr. Coffin wrote that a woman working as a Capitol Hill portrait photographer had ''teased and smiled'' Tennessee's courtly Senator Kenneth D. McKellar into posing for her, he got into hot water, or rather soup, in the Senate dining room. ''Here's a scoop for you,'' the woman said as she dumped a bowl of Senate bean soup over Mr. Coffin's head.
        After ''Missouri Compromise,'' Mr. Coffin wrote half a dozen other books. None were as successful, but Mr. Coffin's steadfast and outspoken opposition to the Vietnam war won him many admirers, and, in 1968, a group of businessmen backed him in starting a newsletter, Washington Watch, which evolved into The Washington Spectator in 1975.
        The newsletter, which has a circulation of about 65,000, is still published every two weeks, but the new editor, Ben A. Franklin, has revolutionized the one-man operation, working on a computer. For a quarter of a century, Mr. Coffin used an old-fashioned Royal typewriter.
        In addition to his son, of Berkeley, Calif., Mr. Coffin is survived by a daughter, Lynne Coffin-Prince of Chula Vista, Calif.; four grandsons and a great-grandson.
      