
        Milton Blatt, an inspiring teacher and coach at Andrew Jackson High School in Queens who guided its track and cross-country teams to national prominence, died last Thursday at his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 87.
        Mr. Blatt's impact was felt by thousands of students during his 42 years in the New York school system, and he steered many on to college as an adviser. He was also an English teacher, but was most noted for his coaching at Jackson, located in Cambria Heights, Queens.
        On the day Andrew Jackson opened in 1937, Mr. Blatt transferred there after having taught at Jamaica High School.
        In the 1940's, after having served as an English teacher and Jackson's tennis coach, he was asked by some students if he could also coach track and field. He had never done so, but went to the library and took out several books on the sport.
        His caring style gave him the nickname Uncle Miltie among his runners, whom he led to 14 Public Schools Athletic League citywide championships as well as 16 borough titles. He helped produce two Olympians, Vince Matthews, a 1965 graduate who captured the gold medal at 400 meters in Munich, Germany, in 1972, and Julio Meade, who competed at that distance for the Dominican Republic in 1968.
        ''Coach Blatt was very special to the many lives that he touched,'' said Mr. Meade, now a business executive living in Virginia. ''He would sit with you and say, 'You can do this, you can do that' -- not only in track but also in your studies. To this day, I am very thankful to Coach Blatt, because he basically changed my life.''
        If students had trouble getting to a meet, he would pick them up, one of his runners, Sam Thomas, a city champion half-miler, once recalled.
        Indeed, to the dismay of his wife, son and daughter, he sold the family pride and joy, a Volvo they had purchased in Europe in the 1960's, because, he said, ''It's not big enough for my boys.'' He meant the four young men on the relay team he usually chauffeured, along with their equipment.
        In an attempt to produce a national scholastic record in the two-mile relay, he once orchestrated a 1966 match race against Boys High of Brooklyn. The result became a legend among track buffs.
        The teams met on the St. John's University oval in Jamaica, Queens. Meade was a sprinter, but Coach Blatt sensed he could run a top-notch opening half-mile, so he put him on the leadoff leg. Meade set a blistering pace and pulled everyone who followed along with him faster than they had ever gone before.
        When it was over, the two teams had shattered the national record by seven seconds. Each was timed in  7 minutes 35.6 seconds -- with Jackson gaining a victory of inches. The record stands today, and is believed to be the oldest high school track mark.
        The Jackson teams never enjoyed having assistant coaches. But Coach Blatt, who retired in 1972, had huge squads numbering 60 to 70 athletes.
        Mr. Blatt, who was born in New York City, graduated from Jamaica High School and received bachelor's and master's degrees from the City College of New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Jennie; a son, Joel, of New York City; a daughter, Janet, of Glen Cove, a sister and two brothers.
      