
        Robert Cameron McEwen, a lawyer and Republican lawmaker who, representing the North Country of upstate New York, helped restore the glory of Lake Placid as an Olympic-class resort and turn Fort Drum into a first-rate military base, died on Sunday at A. Barton Hepburn Hospital in his hometown of Ogdensburg. He was 77.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, according to the Washington office of Representative John M. McHugh, a close friend from his Congressional District, the 24th.
        Mr. McEwen served in the State Senate for 10 years, starting in 1954, then spent 16 years in the United States House of Representatives. He gave up his seat in 1981, when President Ronald Reagan named him a commissioner and chairman of the nation's contingent on the United States-Canada International Joint Commission for the St. Lawrence River. Mr. McEwen led the United States Section until his retirement in 1989.
        He was born in Ogdensburg on Jan. 5, 1920, into a family with deep roots in the state's northernmost reaches. His great-grandfather, Carlton McEwen, a native Vermonter, was an abolitionist who operated an underground escape route for slaves and joined the Republican Party when it was formed.
        The family remained solidly Republican, although young Robert  was regarded as something of a ''liberal and Young Turk'' when he entered politics, recalled Franklin Little, editor of The Ogdensburg Journal. Mr. McEwen graduated from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1941 and from Albany Law School in 1947. In between, he served as a sergeant with the Army Air Corps transportation command, stationed in Labrador, Canada.
        He went into law practice in Ogdensburg and entered the State Legislature, where he was instrumental in obtaining $2.5 million in seed money to turn Whiteface Mountain into a modern ski resort. That put Lake Placid on the map as a magnet for winter sports enthusiasts and as an international attraction -- the site of the 1969 World Bobsled Championships and the 1980 Winter Olympics.
        Lake Placid played host to the 1932 Winter Olympics but had since fallen behind in competition with the ski resorts in Europe.
        Another of his projects was the Ogdensburg-Prescott Bridge over the St. Lawrence to Ontario. The creation of the St. Lawrence Seaway did away with the rapids, and the bridge was needed to insure a year-round link.
        In the case of Fort Drum, Mr. McEwen fought both in Albany and Washington to save and enlarge what used to be Camp Drum, a military backwater endangered by budget cutters. It is a major staging area for overseas deployment and cold-weather training.
        Mr. McEwen is survived by his wife, Margaret Maloney Gladwin McEwen; two daughters, Nancy Wax of Easton, Conn., and Mary Fitzpatrick of Lawrenceville, N.J., and four grandchildren. His first wife, Anita Sharples McEwen, died in 1982 after 30 years of marriage.
        A tall, ruddy man, Mr. McEwen was known for the enthusiasm and humor he brought to the job from his safe Republican bailiwick. In 1961, his colleagues chose him for a thankless job as chairman of a joint legislative committee that drafted reapportionment plans for the state's Congressional districts.
        ''I'm the farthest northern Senator,'' he commented, mindful of the fire he was sure to draw along the way. ''My home is on the bank of the St. Lawrence River. I can very quickly get out of the country.''
      