
        J. Willard Hurst, professor emeritus of the University of Wisconsin Law School and internationally recognized as the dean of American legal historians, died on Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer of the larynx, said his wife, Frances.
        In linking law and social history in his studies, Professor Hurst broke with a school of thought in which law was regarded as a self-contained society and the law library as its laboratory. How the law actually affected people or how legal institutions evolved was ignored in favor of the study of appellate decisions, according to that thought.
        In 1937, after clerking at the Supreme Court, he joined the Wisconsin law school faculty and was urged to create a program in law and society, to examine the cross-pollination between Wisconsin's legal system and economy. In the 20-year study that laid the base for his seminal work, ''Law and Economic Growth,'' published in 1964, Professor Hurst focused on the state's lumber industry.
        His work illuminated the underlying social and economic forces involved in the exploitation of the state's forests and determined how the industry both used and shaped laws of property, contracts, banking, transportation, accident compensation and other relationships.
        ''Willard Hurst is renowned in this country and abroad as the founder of the field of legal history,'' said Shirley Abrahamson, the Chief Justice of the Wisconsin Supreme Court and a former student.
        James Willard Hurst was born in Rockford, Ill. He received a bachelor's degree in 1932 from Williams College and a law degree in 1935 from Harvard University, where he graduated at the top of his class and edited The Harvard Law Review.
        He then became a research fellow for Felix Frankfurter, a professor at Harvard at the time and later Justice of the Supreme Court, and in 1936 became a clerk for Justice Louis D. Brandeis.
        In 1967, Professor Hurst received a master's degree from Cambridge University, where he was the Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions and fellow of Trinity Hall in 1967-68. He was also a visiting professor at Northwestern University, Stanford University, the University of Utah and the University of Florida. He retired in 1980.
        Besides contributing to law reviews and other publications, Professor Hurst wrote over a dozen books, among them ''The Law Makers'' (1950), ''Law and the Conditions of Freedom'' (1956), ''Law and Social Process in U.S. History'' (1960),  ''Justice Holmes on Legal History'' (1964) and ''A Legal History of Money in the United States'' (1973).
        He is survived by his wife, the former Frances Wilson; a son, Thomas Robert, a professor of law at the University of Florida; a daughter, Dr. Deborah Hurst of Berkeley, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      