
        Dr. Kenneth Miles Moser, a lung specialist who devised an intricate procedure for the surgical removal of rare but deadly blood clots from the arteries of the lung, died on Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 68.
        He suffered a brief illness, said the University of California at San Diego Medical Center, where Dr. Moser founded and directed the division of pulmonary and critical care.
        Dr. Moser's expertise centered on pulmonary medicine and vascular disease in particular.
        The technique he pioneered, called pulmonary thromboendarterectomy, made the San Diego Medical Center a destination for patients and lung specialists from around the world. Dr. Moser was not a surgeon himself. He directed a staff of surgeons who performed the operation 855 times since 1970. He also developed some of the instruments used by the surgeons on his team.
        He was a professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Specialized Center of Research at the university. His research focused on such matters as pulmonary and cardiac physiology, blood coagulation and the nature and treatment of clots that develop in blood vessels.
        He proposed the pulmonary thromboendarterectomy procedure in 1961 while on the staff of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington when there was no surgical treatment for lung clots. It is a highly complex and delicate operation that can last for more than eight hours, but its success made the clotting condition curable and death from it less of a threat.
        Kenneth Moser, a Baltimore native, graduated from Haverford College and Johns Hopkins University Medical School. He taught at Georgetown and headed the pulmonary division at its University Hospital before moving to San Diego in 1968.
        Dr. Moser is survived by his wife, Sara; three daughters, Dr. Kathleen Moser, of Poway, Calif., Diana Moser, of San Diego, and Margot Richters, of Rockville, Md.; a son, Gregory, also of San Diego; a sister, Joan Goeringer, of Bethesda, Md.; a brother, Robert, of Chama, N.M.; and six grandchildren.
      