
        Lawrence Payton, who sang with the Four Tops for more than four decades, died yesterday at his home in Southfield, Mich., the town's police department said. He was 59.
        The cause was liver cancer, said  Abdul Fakir, a Four Tops member.
        The Four Tops were one of Motown's most forceful groups. From  1965 to 1974, nearly 30 of their singles reached the pop charts, and they  continued to make hits into the 80's. While other vocal groups changed lineups, the Four Tops retained the original members since 1953.
        Mr. Payton, along with other other group members, was born in Detroit  and grew up there. In 1953, he joined Levi Stubbs Jr., Renaldo Benson and Mr. Fakir in a group they called the Four Aims. To avoid confusion with the Ames Brothers, they changed the name to the Four Tops when Chess Records signed them in 1956. They also recorded for Red Top, Riverside and Columbia Records, with little commercial success, and toured supper clubs. They were part of Billy Eckstine's revue in Las Vegas in 1960, and he coached them on dynamics and presentation.
        The Four Tops signed with Motown in 1963, and were teamed with the producers and songwriters Brian Holland, Eddie Holland and Lamont Dozier. With Mr. Stubbs's exhortatory lead vocals, they began a string of hits, beginning with ''Baby, I Need Your Loving'' in 1964. ''I Can't Help Myself (Sugar Pie, Honey Bunch)'' in 1965 and ''Reach Out ('I'll Be There')'' in 1966 were both No. 1 hits, followed by two Top 10 hits in 1967, ''Standing in the Shadows of Love'' and ''Bernadette.'' When the Holland-Dozier-Holland team left Motown in 1967, the Four Tops had hits with such remakes as ''Walk Away  Renee'' and ''MacArthur Park.''
        The Four Tops moved to the ABC-Dunhill label in 1972, returning to the Top 10 with ''Keeper of the Castle'' and ''Ain't No Woman (Like the One I've Got).'' In 1981, after signing with Casablanca, they had a No. 11 hit with ''When She Was My Girl.'' But with or without current hits, they continued to perform around the world. After returning to Motown in 1983, they began touring with the Temptations, including a sold-out engagement on Broadway. In 1988, the Four Tops signed with Arista Records; ''Indestructible'' reached No. 35. Mr. Payton was also an occasional songwriter; one of his songs was recorded by Aretha Franklin.
        The Four Tops were inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame in 1990, received the Pioneer Award from the Rhythm-and-Blues Foundation this year, and have a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
      