
        Bernard G. Segal, a Philadelphia lawyer who elevated his horizons to help spread the principles of law and justice throughout the segregated South and to every mean street in America, died on Sunday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 89 and had been president of the American Bar Association at the height of the struggle for civil rights in 1969-70.
        His family said the cause was complications of cancer.
        In a half century as a corporate lawyer specializing in appellate work, Mr. Segal represented blue-chip clients including Bell Telephone, RCA, NBC, Hertz, Gimbel Brothers, and also United Parcel, where he served for many years as director and general counsel.
        Although he represented his clients with vigor and distinction, arguing nearly 50 cases before the Supreme Court of the United States, as a lawyer Mr. Segal took a broad view of his calling.
        Among other things, as an active member of local and national bar associations he was credited with establishing peer review of judicial appointments, with the creation of a Federal lawyers panel to advance civil rights and with taking a leading role in establishing the Federal Legal Services program for the poor.
        He was also an effective champion for raising judges' salaries and persuading lawyers to represent poor clients without charge.
        If Mr. Segal, who served on numerous committees and accepted special assignments from four Presidents while maintaining his private practice, seemed to spread himself a bit thin, he had a secret for budgeting his time: working virtually around the clock, seven days a week.
        ''I don't think Bernie ever had a ball in his hand,'' is the way his brother and law partner, Irving, put it yesterday in explaining Mr. Segal's total devotion to the law, to the exclusion of all hobbies or other interests.
        In addition, by the time Mr. Segal had earned his bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Pennsylvania, he was an old hand at juggling multiple tasks.
        A native of New York City who grew up in Allentown, Pa., and Philadelphia, Mr. Segal, who had to give up his boyhood dream of becoming a concert pianist when six hours of practice every day inflamed the nerves in his wrists, was a whirlwind of activity at Philadelphia's Central High School: he served as editor of three student publications, captain of the debate team and president of the student body, while maintaining the highest grade-point average in the class.
        He was so impressive in law school that when the state Attorney General asked the dean to recommend ''a young lawyer who can write English,'' adding that ''if he knew a little law, that would do no harm,'' Mr. Segal got the nod and the job, drafting a raft of major legislation, including the state's banking code, and becoming, at 24, the state's youngest deputy attorney general ever.
        After his his boss, William A. Schnader, the state Attorney General, lost a race for governor and established his own firm in 1935, Mr. Segal quickly became a partner, eventually serving as chairman of the firm, now known as Schnader, Harrison, Segal & Lewis.
        By the 1950's, Mr. Segal had made such an impression on his clients and fellow lawyers that he became the first Jewish lawyer elected chancellor of the Philadelphia Bar Association, the nation's oldest bar association. In 1969, he became the first Jewish president of the American Bar Association.
        If his fellow lawyers had expected a retiring figure, they were mistaken. Mr. Segal, devoted to the principle that the most despised defendants deserve a defense, raised eyebrows among his staid colleagues in 1953 when he organized the defense of nine Philadelphians denounced as Communists.
        As a member of an A.B.A. committee a few years later, he raised eyebrows in the White House, according to a persistent account, when, to persuade President Dwight D. Eisenhower to establish the practice of submitting prospective judicial appointments to bar association review, he appealed to the President's military background by posing a single question: ''Would you appoint a general without asking the colonels what they thought of him?''
        Mr. Segal was equally direct a decade later, when he called Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and asked why he was not organizing private lawyers to help in the struggle for civil rights. As a result, Mr. Segal was asked to organize the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights.
        By the time Lyndon B. Johnson became President, Mr. Segal did not have to ask. The President tapped him to head the committee that established legal services for the poor.
        In addition to his brother, of Philadelphia, Mr. Segal is survived by his wife, Geraldine; a son, Richard, of Connecticut; a daughter, Loretta Cohen of Harrison, N.Y.; a sister, Florence Lowe of Washington; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      