
        Thomas L. Coleman, who killed an unarmed civil rights worker then won a jury acquittal by claiming self-defense, died on June 13 at his home in Hayneville, Ala., the scene of the infamous 1965 killing. He was 86.
        Nobody was much surprised when an all-white jury found Mr. Coleman not guilty in the death of Jonathan Myrick Daniels, 26, an Episcopal seminarian from Keene, N.H. In the parlance of the times, Mr. Daniels was an outside agitator and to many of the white people of Lowndes County, where black people outnumbered white residents 4-to-1 and were kept in line by constant intimidation, that meant he was fair game, as was the Rev. Richard Morrisroe, a Roman Catholic priest who was hit in the back and severely wounded by a second blast from Mr. Coleman's shotgun. Both men were white.
        Nobody gave much credence to Mr. Coleman's statement that he thought Mr. Daniels had a knife and that Father Morrisroe had a gun as they approached a store near the courthouse on Aug. 20, 1965.
        Mr. Coleman, an engineer for the highway department and a member of one of the county's oldest families, was at the courthouse when Mr. Daniels, Father Morrisroe and more than 20 black companions were released from the Lowndes County jail, where they had been held on vague charges after a demonstration.
        As members of the group recounted it, they were suspicious of the circumstances of their sudden release. While a young man sought a phone to call friends to pick them up, some of the others moved off toward a little store a few blocks away to buy sodas.
        As the two white men and two black young women neared the store, witnesses said, Mr. Coleman, an unpaid special deputy sheriff with a pistol at his side and a 12-gauge shotgun in his arms, barred the way, telling them the store was closed and cursing the young women.
        Then, as he aimed the shotgun at one of the young women and began to pull the trigger, she and other witnesses said, Mr. Daniels pushed the young women to the ground and used his body as a shield just as the gun went off, nearly tearing his body in two. A second blast struck Father Morrisroe in the back.
        In the furor that followed, local officials were so openly supportive of Mr. Coleman that the Attorney General of Alabama, Richmond Flowers, outraged that a grand jury had indicted Mr. Coleman on a charge of manslaughter rather than murder, took over the prosecution. But he was thwarted by the trial judge, who refused to delay the trial until Father Morrisroe was able to testify, then removed Mr. Flowers from the case.  It took the jury two hours to find Mr. Coleman not guilty.
        Over the years, Mr. Coleman continued to play dominoes at the courthouse, but his cronies made a point not to discuss the events of 1965, his sister, Hulde Coleman, said.
        In addition to his sister, Mr. Coleman is survived by his wife, Coralie; a son, Thomas Jr. of Montgomery, Ala.; a daughter, Hulda Moseley of Macon, Ga.; a brother, Joe, of Montgomery; three sisters, Sarah Wilburn and Mable Black of Montgomery and Midwill Haigler of Hayneville, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      