
        Albert Wohlstetter, an influential innovator in strategic nuclear doctrine who advised Democratic and Republican Administrations on military strategy, died on Friday in his home in the Laurel Canyon area of Los Angeles. He was 83.
        Mr. Wohlstetter's career as a strategic analyst was guided by certain key principles, including his conviction that the United States should be able to control its military forces in such a way as to permit varying the American response to foreign aggression according to the circumstances. The goal of such control, he felt, was to insure that the United States would not be obliged to mount an initial nuclear attack on the Soviet Union -- known to military analysts as a ''first strike'' -- but would have a variety of options instead.
        Writing in Commentary in the early 1980's -- when nuclear doctrine was seen as being about how to deter nuclear attack and what to do should deterrence fail -- Mr. Wohlstetter contended that the President must be perceived as having choices in order to deter an attack, and that the President could not be left without choices should deterrence fail.
        Mr. Wohlstetter and his wife, Roberta Wohlstetter, also an expert on national security, were awarded the Medal of Freedom in 1985 by President Ronald Reagan for their ''great contributions to the security of the United States.'' Mr. Reagan said Mr. Wohlstetter had been ''influential in helping to design and employ our strategic forces.''
        Mr. Wohlstetter was a senior policy analyst on the staff of the Rand Corporation, the California-based think tank, from 1951 to 1963 and a consultant to Rand for decades afterward. He also taught at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the University of California, Berkeley, in the early 1960's and at the University of Chicago from 1964 to 1980. And he was a longtime executive of Pan Heuristics Services, Inc., a California-based consulting firm dealing in security policy whose clients included the departments of State and Defense as well as private corporations.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Wohlstetter grew up in Manhattan and attended public schools. He earned a bachelor's degree and, in 1938, a master's degree, in mathematical logic from Columbia University. In the 1940's he worked for the War Production Board, and later went on to work in the aviation industry and  as a Government housing executive.
        He later became a member of Rand's research council and chairman of Rand's research program on conflict in allied, neutral and satellite countries. The studies that he carried out at Rand in the 1950's were all done for one client, the United States Defense Department, and were for the most part highly secret.
        Soon after he joined Rand, a colleague there, Charles Hitch -- who later became an Assistant Secretary of Defense under Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara in the 1960's -- suggested that Mr. Wohlstetter carry out a research project about the selection and use of strategic air bases -- that is, air bases for nuclear bombers. There were no nuclear missiles until the mid-1950's.
        James Digby, a friend of Mr. Wohlstetter who worked with him at Rand, recalled yesterday that Mr. Wohlstetter's paper ''resulted in a change of Strategic Air Command's basing policy so that bombers were based far from the Soviet Union, and their bases, highly protected. This in turn led to the ability to strike back even after receiving a first attack by the Soviets.''
        In the 1970's, after Mr. Wohlstetter had left Rand, he and his wife performed studies on the Persian Gulf  on behalf of Rand and with the Department of Defense as the client. These studies affirmed that the United States' European allies were highly susceptible to having important oil supplies blocked.
        Also in the 1970's, Mr. and Mrs. Wohlstetter increased their analyses of the ramifications of the spread of  nuclear weapons, and by some accounts that work led to changes in American law concerning the export of nuclear material, notably plutonium, and of nuclear technology.
        In addition to his wife, the former Roberta Morgan, whom he married in 1939, Mr. Wohlstetter is survived by a daughter, Joan Wohlstetter Hall of Manhattan.
      