
        Arthur Prysock, the deep-voiced rhythm-and-blues singer whose seductive bass-baritone once coaxed listeners to ''let it be Lowenbrau'' in a popular beer commercial, died on Saturday at King Edward Hospital, outside Hamilton, Bermuda. He was 68.
        The cause was not disclosed, but Mr. Prysock, who had lived in Bermuda for the last several years, was reported to be suffering from a prolonged illness.
        The singer, who was born in Spartanburg, S.C., belonged to a school of jazz-and-soul balladeers that included Billy Eckstine (his greatest influence), Johnny Hartman and Lou Rawls. His heavy, deep voice projected a calm, reassuring virility. A popular nightclub singer for five decades, Mr. Prysock enjoyed more success as a concert and club performer (in the early days often touring with his brother, the tenor saxophonist Red Prysock) than as a recording artist.
        Nevertheless, he had a number of medium-size hits, recorded many albums and in 1987 received a Grammy nomination for best performance by a duo or a group for ''Teach Me Tonight,'' a duet with Betty Joplin. The next year his recording of ''This Guy's in Love With You'' received another Grammy nomination for best jazz vocal performance.
        Mr. Prysock, who began performing in his hometown, joined the Buddy Johnson blues band when he was 15 and had several hits with the group, including ''They Say I'm the Biggest Fool,'' ''Jet, My Love,'' ''I Wonder Where Our Love Has Gone'' and ''Because.''
        After going solo in 1952, he had a major rhythm-and-blues hit with ''I Didn't Sleep a Wink Last Night,'' recorded with Sy Oliver's band. Signing with Old Town Records in 1960, he had string of moderately successful singles over the next two decades, including a memorable rendition of ''The Very Thought of You,'' ''It's Too Late, Baby Too Late'' (1965) and even a surprise disco hit, ''When Love Was New'' (1976).
        His albums for Old Town included ''Coast to Coast'' and ''A Portrait of Arthur Prysock'' (both 1963) and ''Everlasting Songs for Everlasting Lovers'' (1964). In 1966, he recorded an album with Count Basie for Verve. After a fallow period beginning in the late 1970's, his career  revived when he signed with Milestone and released two albums, ''Rockin' Good Way'' and ''This Guy's in Love With You,'' that found  his silky growl, with its careworn texture and tone of pillow-talk intimacy, as evocative as ever.
      