
        Dr. James S. Todd, a New Jersey surgeon who was the executive vice president and chief executive officer of the American Medical Association from 1990 until he retired last year, died yesterday in Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 65 and lived in Ridgewood.
        The cause was metastatic cancer, said James Stacey, a spokesman for the association, which has about 300,000 members.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Todd was retired from the practice of surgery.
        Mr. Stacey said yesterday that Dr. Todd's years as the organization's executive secretary had been ''a time of dramatic change and pressure for change.''
        One of his main accomplishments, Mr. Stacey said, was guiding the association through the implementation of a dramatic revision in the system of payments to doctors in the Medicare program for the elderly.
        The payment method under Medicare changed from the old ''reasonable and customary fee'' basis to a system that takes into account the resources that doctors bring to their professional discipline: their education and training and also the complexity of the services provided.
        That system was begun in 1991 by the agency that administers Medicare, the Health Care Financing Administration, part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
        ''It certainly was an improvement over the old system, which was cumbersome and in some ways inequitable,'' Mr. Stacey said. The association provided advice for the Government about the change in systems. Its main means of doing that during Dr. Todd's tenure as its executive vice president was by contributing to a Harvard University study of the new system.
        Dr. Todd also won praise within the association for the way he guided  the organization through the national debate on universal health care reform in 1993 and 1994.
        The association did not support or oppose any of the various proposals that had been made, but it did provide information about the implications of the proposals for the public as well as for the medical profession.
        But the debate proved inconclusive. A universal health reform proposal put forward by the Clinton Administration in 1993 failed for lack of support in Congress. Since then, Congress has enacted some small-scale changes.
        Dr. Todd also worked actively,  with an organization of companies providing professional liability insurance for doctors, on ways to curb the escalating cost of malpractice insurance. Mr. Stacey said part of that work involved drafting guidelines for the practice of various medical specialties to reduce the number of errors committed by doctors.
        Mr. Stacey said the first guidelines, for anesthesiologists, had been notably effective in reducing errors.
        As executive vice president, Dr. Todd also oversaw preparations for the establishment of the National Patient Safety Foundation. Its chief mission is to identify and correct errors in medical systems, notably in the hospital system. Its formation was announced in the fall of 1996, after he had stepped down.
        Dr. Todd was born in Hyannis, Mass., grew up in Massachusetts and received a bachelor's degree in 1953 and his medical degree in 1957, both from Harvard.
        He interned at what is now Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan, was a resident in surgery there and went on to a private surgical practice in Ridgewood from 1964 to 1985. He maintained professional affiliations with hospitals in Manhattan and New Jersey.
        He went on to be senior deputy executive vice president of the American Medical Association from 1985 to 1990, when he was chosen by the association's board to become the executive vice president. In that post he replaced Dr. James H. Sammons and was followed by Dr. P. John Seward.
        Dr. Todd is survived by his wife of 38 years, the former Marjorie Patricia Thorn, and a son, Kendall Scott Todd, who lives in New Jersey
      