
        William Hickey, whose career as an actor on stage and in radio, television and films reached its peak in his portrayal of a decrepit, raspy-voiced Mafia don in the 1985 film ''Prizzi's Honor,'' died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was complications of emphysema and bronchitis, said his companion, Lilli Afan.
        In addition to his career as an actor and occasional director, Mr. Hickey was a respected acting teacher, associated for more than 40 years with the HB Studio in Greenwich Village, founded by Herbert Berghof and Uta Hagen, who were Mr. Hickey's discoverers and artistic parents.
        His students included Sandy Dennis, Barbara Harris, Steve McQueen, George Segal and Barbra Streisand, whom he said he did not remember.
        But Mr. Hickey was best known to the public for the rascally characters he played in the latter stages of his career and particularly for Don Corrado Prizzi, a role that won him an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actor. When he played the 84-year-old, Mr. Hickey was 57.
        Reviewing ''Prizzi's Honor,'' Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote that the ''ferociously practical, wise, infinitely patient old Don'' was ''the role and the performance of Mr. Hickey's career to date.'' He continued, ''As one unforeseen lunatic event succeeds another, Mr. Hickey's dying Don, his intelligence unimpaired, seems actually to melt into his clothes, like the Wicked Witch at the end of 'The Wizard of Oz.' ''
        Actually, Mr. Hickey told an interviewer, he wore a suit that was too big, because the director, John Huston, ''told me he wanted to feel that the suit had once fit me, but that I had shrunk.''
        Mr. Hickey, born in Brooklyn, said his upbringing in Flatbush and in Richmond Hill, Queens, in a close Irish family helped him to understand the family loyalty of the murderous Prizzis.
        ''I lived with my mother until she died, when I was 48,'' he said. ''Now I would never kill anybody, but if anybody hurt one of my family, they'd be very, very sorry.''
        Mr. Hickey's parents, Edward and Nora, encouraged him and his sister, Dorothy, to show off and dance at family gatherings, and at an early age he decided to become an actor.
        Mr. Hickey acted in radio, hoofed a little and found some replacement roles on the stage, always as a character actor. In the late 40's, he began to study with Mr. Berghof and Ms. Hagen, who gave him some acting jobs. His first Broadway credit was in ''St. Joan'' with Ms. Hagen. He appeared with Katharine Hepburn and Bert Lahr in ''Twelfth Night'' at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn. His credits from the ''golden age'' of television included ''Studio One,'' ''Camera Three'' and ''Philco Playhouse.'' Later he appeared in episodes of ''Tales From the Crypt'' and ''Wings.''
        Among his other New York stage credits were ''As I Lay Dying,'' ''Miss Lonelyhearts,'' ''On the Town,'' ''Tovarich'' (with Mr. Berghof and Ms. Hagen) and ''Da.''
        Beginning in 1957, with ''A Hatful of Rain,'' his films included ''Little Big Man,'' ''Happy Birthday, Wanda June,'' ''Bright Lights, Big City,'' ''Sea of Love,'' ''National Lampoon's Summer Vacation'' and ''Forget Paris.'' In his last film, ''Mouse Hunt,'' a black comedy filmed earlier this year for release in December, Mr. Hickey plays the dying father of Nathan Lane and Lee Evans, two brothers who hate each other.
        Mr. Hickey continued to teach at the HB Studio until about two weeks before his death.
        In addition to Ms. Afan, Mr. Hickey is survived by his sister, Dorothy Finn of Long Beach, N.Y.
        Ms. Afan said one of Mr. Hickey's grateful students called her yesterday. ''All my life I felt stupid and untalented,'' she said he told her, ''but Bill Hickey made me feel like the smartest man on earth.''
      