
        Dr. Lee Edward Farr, an early proponent of the medical uses of nuclear energy and the first medical director of Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, died on July 16 in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 90.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At Brookhaven in the late 1940's and 50's, Dr. Farr helped develop ''an extremely clever idea for treating brain tumors that was ahead of its time,'' said Robert Crease, a professor of philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook who is writing a history of the Brookhaven lab.
        The technique, known as neutron capture therapy, involved introducing an element, in this case boron, into the tumor and bombarding it with neutrons from a reactor. The boron would become radioactive and destroy what was an otherwise untreatable malignancy.
        Dr. Farr and his colleagues initially experimented on mice and were the first to demonstrate that the therapy was able to eliminate a tumor. It was a time, Professor Crease said, of great expectations for immediate nonmilitary benefits for the unleashed atom, and the new Atomic Energy Commission was looking for promising projects.
        The commission approved the use of the technique on humans in 1950. ''It was a possible big splashy way of using atomic energy'' on patients whose prognosis otherwise was almost nil, Professor Crease said.
        From 1951 to 1961, Dr. Farr and his associates treated several groups of patients, using an early Brookhaven reactor and later, a special one built largely for the program. But the therapy did not live up to its promise, Professor Crease said.
        Part of the problem, said Dr. Lawrence V. Hanks, a former colleague of Dr. Farr, was that the neutrons were moving too fast to be effective enough. But with the field in its infancy, the researchers had no means to slow the neutrons down. The program was canceled in 1961, and Dr. Farr left Brookhaven a year later.
        Along the way, there had been other frustrations. During early research, Dr. Farr had asked a colleague, Dr. William Steinfield, to study whether it was possible to use uranium rather than boron. Dr. Steinfield one day reported that he had successfully accumulated uranium in a tumor.
        But before he discussed his research in detail, Dr. Steinfield, an avid yachtsman, went to Baltimore to pick up a boat and sail it back to Long Island. The boat and the doctor were lost in a storm, and despite furious searches of his notes, Dr. Farr and the others were unable to replicate his results.
        Dr. Farr, a native of Albuquerque, N.M., received both undergraduate and medical degrees from Yale University. After leaving Brookhaven, he became chief of the nuclear medicine section at the University of Texas in Houston. He later held several positions with the state of California, retiring in 1973 as the chief of the Bureau of Emergency Health Services.
        His wife of 48 years, Anne, died in 1984. He is survived by his second wife, Miriam Kirk Farr; a son, Charles E., of Long Beach, Calif; two daughters, Susan F. Armstrong of Walnut Creek and Frances F. Torrey of Alamo, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      