
        Paul L. Miller, an investment banker and a former president of the First Boston Corporation, died Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 77.
        The cause was heart failure following surgery to remove a blood clot, his wife, Adele, said.
        Mr. Miller was a traditional investment banker who lamented Wall Street's move away from loyal client relationships to stressing the profitability of individual transactions.
        At First Boston, where he spent his entire Wall Street career, Mr. Miller played a key part in financing several important events in recent business history, including the Boeing Corporation's development of the 747 airplane, the growth of the Australian mining industry and the sale to the public of such companies as Ogilvy & Mather, the advertising agency.
        Mr. Miller, who was raised in Philadelphia and Plainfield N.J., graduated in 1941 from Princeton University, where he played on the polo team, earned a pilot's license and was a member of the Ivy Club. On his graduation from Princeton, Mr. Miller, a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps, was commissioned into the Army and served on the field artillery board that developed the howitzer. After the United States entered World War II, Mr. Miller went to North Africa to help instruct troops in the use of the new artillery piece. He took part in the campaigns in Italy and Germany, where he rose to the rank of major and earned the Bronze Star and Purple Heart.
        On his discharge from the Army in 1946, Mr. Miller joined First Boston in New York City. ''I didn't know the difference between a stock and a bond, but I knew I needed a paycheck,'' he joked later in life. After two years of training, Mr. Miller worked his way up in First Boston, running its investment banking department and joining its board, before becoming president in 1964. Focusing on industrial companies, Mr. Miller developed strong business relationships with the Mellon family and with several large corporations in the Pittsburgh area. He was a board director of Alcoa, Cummins Engine and the Celanese Corporation, Ogilvy & Mather, Seaman's Bank for Savings and Pullman.
        Despite a heart attack in the early 1970's, Mr. Miller continued an active career. Even after he retired as president of First Boston in 1978, Mr. Miller continued to work full time for the firm until recent years and was on First Boston's investment banking committee until the early 1990's. Since then Mr. Miller switched to a two-day week.
        A trustee of both the Morristown Memorial Hospital and the Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan, Mr. Miller also headed the 1966 fund and membership drive for the American Red Cross. He also served on the boards of the Madeira School in Greenway, Va., and the Peck School in Morristown, N.J. A keen birdwatcher, Mr. Miller had a particular interest in falcons. In 1965 his office contained a duck decoy lamp, a merganser print and a peregrine falcon porcelain.
        Mr. Miller is survived by his wife, Adele Olyphant Miller; three daughters, Hilary Miller and Leslie Gulielmetti, both of Manhattan, and Beverly Orthwein of Greenwich, Conn.; one granddaughter, and four grandsons. A son, Paul L. Miller Jr., was killed four years ago in a helicopter crash while on a skiing trip.
      