
        Raymond Allen Jackson, who kept a good part of London chuckling, chortling and sometimes gasping in indignation during a three-decade run as Jak, the irreverent cartoonist for The Evening Standard, died on Sunday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 70.
        The Standard said the cause was complications of bypass surgery after a heart attack.
        Working in a long British cartooning tradition, Jak had a broad appeal, producing drawing-room titters and working-class guffaws.
        Himself the product of a working-class West London tailor's family, Mr. Jackson skewered high and low alike, from puffed-up politicians to grasping unionists, drawing on a repertory of three-fingered stereotypes to depict each.
        He also claimed to be the first modern cartoonist to break an unspoken taboo against caricaturing the monarch, though gently, to be sure. After the spectacular 1995 collapse of the Barings bank, he showed the Queen coming up empty at a cash machine.
        For all his fondness for puncturing pomposity, Jak, whose cartoons generally reflected a here-they-go-again tone of resigned bemusement, was rarely cruel, preferring the hatpin to the sword. But when an issue really got to him, he was known to go for the sledgehammer.
        When striking electrical workers caused blackouts at hospitals, for example, Jak depicted a striker so savagely that his own newspaper's unionized press operators threatened a walkout until the editors promised to run a letter criticizing the cartoon.
        Although his renderings of public figures were instantly recognizable, Jak was not primarily a caricaturist but a meticulous artist who spent most of his time inking in elaborate backgrounds: a painstakingly accurate London street scene, for example, or the plush interior of a St. James's club.
        Sometimes the backgrounds were more elaborate than he would have preferred. Jak, who began by making rough drafts of half a dozen cartoons based on the day's top news stories, complained that his editors invariably selected the one involving the most work, a scene with a brick wall, perhaps, requiring him to draw it brick by brick.
        Much of his work depended on the minutiae of the political moment, but his drawings had such inherent humor and timeless appeal that his annual collections sold briskly at Christmas. The originals of his cartoons, which appeared on Sundays in The Mail, decorated pubs and restaurants all over London, and so many private bathrooms that even Prince Charles once told him that he, too, was a captive Jak audience in his royal loo.
        But Mr. Jackson was sometimes accused of deliberately bolstering sales through his penchant for working company names or commercial  signs into his drawings, hardly unaware that the morning after one appeared, the company chairman's would buy the original.
        Mr. Jackson, who traced his brand of humor to the grim jokes that helped Londoners survive World War II bombings, was a small, wiry child who wore thick glasses from the age of 2 and whose artistic bent developed early.
        Completing his military service immediately after graduating from the Willesden School of Art, Mr. Jackson worked in advertising and contributed cartoons to Punch and other magazines. He joined The Standard in 1952, working first in the advertising department, then moving to the editorial side, where he provided small, incidental drawings until 1965, when the suicide of a famous predecessor known as Vicky led to his promotion.
        Jak, who liked to think of himself as more a social than a political commentator, quickly became one of London's most beloved cartoonists as well as a Fleet Street favorite, both for his drawings and for his high-spirited life style, which ran to fast cars, long lunches and even longer evenings on the town.
        Friends who knew he had been carousing expressed amazement that he would be at work every day at 7 A.M., but then his office, a privileged lair labeled Uncle Jak's Cabin, did have a squishy leather couch, not to mention a refrigerator stocked with champagne.
        A man who enjoyed his work so much that he said he would never retire, Mr. Jackson nevertheless savored his annual vacations abroad, where he put cartooning behind him and concentrated on his hobby: producing watercolors.
        His survivors include his wife of 40 years, Claudie; a son, and two daughters.
      