
        Dr. Ade Thomas Milhorat, a pioneering researcher of neuromuscular disease and one of the world's foremost experts in muscular dystrophy, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Barre, Vt. He was 98 and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y.
        Dr. Milhorat began his work with nerve and muscle disease in the 1930's. At the time, conditions like the nine types of muscular dystrophy were deemed hopeless by most physicians and virtually no therapy existed.
        He built his research on new discoveries in genetics, protein synthesis of RNA and muscle physiology as he explored promising treatments of neuromuscular disorders. For decades renowned worldwide as a leader in his field, Dr. Milhorat published about 150 scientific papers.
        He established the country's first laboratory and hospital ward for the study and treatment of neuromuscular patients at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in the 1940's. He also joined a number of patients and their families to help form the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America with the motto ''To give hope to the hopeless.''
        One of the group's major figures in raising funds and public support was his friend Eleanor Gehrig, the widow of Lou, the baseball player who died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and left his name on that disease. From those beginnings evolved today's Muscular Dystrophy Association in 1950.
        Years ago, Dr. Milhorat declared his own motto at a symposium in Germany honoring Wilhelm Erb, the 19th-century investigator of muscular disease and infantile paralysis. ''We must ever be mindful that our function as physicians is to cure when we can,'' he said. ''If we cannot cure, let us treat if we can, and if we cannot treat, let us comfort.''
        He was a board member of the M.D.A. from its start until 1970 and headed its medical advisory committee until 1972, after which he continued as a consultant and did research at the University of Vermont. He also was a longtime member of the New York State Board of Medical Examiners and was board president in the early 1950's.
        He was born in Hoboken, N.J., and he graduated from Columbia College and Cornell University Medical College. He then spent two years as a medical fellow at the University of Leipzig. In 1934, he returned to Cornell as a faculty member and was appointed a professor of clinical medicine in 1956. He was given emeritus status in 1968.
        His wife of 64 years, Edith Caulkins Herrick Milhorat, died in 1994. He is survived by their two sons, Dr. Thomas H., of Bedford, N.Y., and Dr. John H., of Barre; a daughter, Edith M. Boothby of Falmouth, Me., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 9, 1997, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Dr. Ade Thomas Milhorat, a pioneering researcher of neuromuscular disease, misstated the date of his death. It was June 26.
      