
        Malcolm Arthur Hoffmann, a former Federal antitrust official, New York lawyer and author of legal textbooks, died on June 24 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 84.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        A Brooklyn native, Mr. Hoffmann graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1934 and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1937. He worked as a lawyer for the National Labor Relations Board before joining the criminal division of the Justice Department. Then, from 1944 to 1955, he was a special assistant to the Attorney General, working in the department's antitrust division.
        He went into private practice in New York and in 1960 established his own firm, Malcolm A. Hoffmann, in Manhattan. He retired in 1995 to write full time.
        Mr. Hoffmann was the author of the three-volume ''Hoffmann's Antitrust Laws and Techniques'' (Bender, 1963) and the autobiographical ''Government Lawyer'' (Federal Legal Publications, 1956), which Justice Felix Frankfurter of the Supreme Court lauded for its ''power to stimulate.'' He also published a series of essays and opinions, ''Back and Forth'' (Peter Pauper, 1969).
        While in law school, he wrote radio dramas for the Yankee Network and  short stories that were included in a 1939 anthology, ''Novel and Story'' (Little, Brown). Since retiring he published a memoir of his youth, ''The Long Canoe,'' finished work on a book titled ''Tales of Lawyer Hoffmann,'' and was working on his first novel, ''Grummage Stories.''
        Mr. Hoffmann was board chairman of the private Hoffmann School in Riverdale, the Bronx, which was founded by an aunt, Rebecca Hoffmann, in 1921. The school, which closed in 1983, was directed by Mr. Hoffmann's wife, Anna Luciano Hoffmann, who died in 1980 after 41 years of marriage. Mr. Hoffmann is survived by two daughters, Gertrude Bolter of Bordeaux, France, and Jessica Davis of Waban, Mass.; five grandchildren, one great-grandson  and his companion, Miriam T. Miller of South Orange, N.J.
      