
        Gloster B. Current, former deputy executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Forest Hills, Queens. Mr. Current, who lived in Hollis, Queens, was 84.
        The cause was leukemia and pneumonia, according to his daughter, Angella.
        Mr. Current's career with the N.A.A.C.P. spanned more than half a century of turbulence and achievement in the civil rights movement. In this period, the effort to attain the promise of equality set forth in 1776 in the Declaration of Independence led to, among other accomplishments, the desegregation of the armed forces, public schools and public transportation; sit-ins, freedom rides, marches and boycotts; legislation to end discrimination in voting, jobs and public accommodation, and, in 1967, the appointment of Thurgood Marshall as the first black Justice of the Supreme Court.
        Though not in the limelight, Mr. Current, who was brought to New York from Detroit in 1946 by the executive secretary, Walter White, to become director of branches and field administration, played a strong role in charting the N.A.A.C.P.'s course.
        In the 30 years after he assumed that post, the organization grew to 1,700 branches and 460,000 members from 500 branches and roughly 250,000 members.
        ''My father and mother are outspoken people,'' Mr. Current said in an interview in 1976, ''and my grandfather, Rev. Gloster Bryant, was a militant, too. I suppose my outspokenness comes natural.''
        In the councils of the N.A.A.C.P., Mr. Current worked with other leaders to steer through its annual conventions the resolutions that established the organization's policies and set its course in the civil rights battles.
        As a field administrator who was in and out of Mississippi for years beginning in 1946, he was the last person to speak with Medgar Evers, the state's first black N.A.A.C.P. field secretary, before Mr. Evers was assassinated in 1963.
        Although Mr. Current retired in 1978 after serving as the association's administrator and deputy executive director when Roy Wilkins agreed to step aside in 1976, he was brought back by the new executive director, Benjamin Hooks, and served two terms between 1978 and 1983 as a member of the N.A.A.C.P.'s board of directors.
        Mr. Current's achievements were not confined to his work with the association. From his youth, he was an accomplished musician who formed a jazz band that played throughout the Detroit area after he graduated from high school.
        But Mr. Current once said, ''I was more interested in social and religious activities.''
        An ordained Methodist minister, he served from 1978 to 1983 as the pastor of the Westchester Community Church on East Tremont Avenue in the Bronx and from 1985 to 1995 as the organist of the St. Paul United Methodist Church in Jamaica, Queens.
        Gloster Bryant Current, one of six children of John T. Current, a retired bank employee, and the former Earsy Bryant, was born in 1913 in Indianapolis. He grew up in Chicago and Detroit.
        By 1941, when he received his Bachelor of Arts degree from West Virginia State College, Mr. Current had already been a member of the N.A.A.C.P. for five years.
        Starting with the organization's youth council in Detroit in 1936, he became chairman of its central youth council committee in 1939 and vice chairman of national college chapters in 1939.
        Even before his graduation, he said, he was offered several key administrative posts. ''But I turned them down because I felt I'd be more effective in the organization with a degree.''
        In 1941, he accepted appointment as the first executive director of the Detroit branch of the N.A.A.C.P., bringing its membership to 24,500, the highest of any branch in the association. In 1950, Mr. Current received a master's degree in public administration from Wayne State University in Detroit.
        Mr. Current is survived by his wife, the former Rebecca Busch of Hollis; three children, Angella P., of Nashville; Gloster B. Jr., of Naperville, Ill., and John David of Seattle; three sisters, Isabelle C. F. Stanton and Glorie A. Edwards, both of Detroit, and Delores C. Register of Oak Park, Ill.; a brother, John T., of St. Albans, Queens, and four grandchildren.
      