
        Alexander Carl von Summer, the head of one of New Jersey's leading commercial real estate companies, died on Friday in a motorcycle accident in Putnam County, New York. He was 58 and lived in Riverside, Conn.
        Mr. von Summer lost control of his motorcycle when it hit a patch of gravel on a highway in the town of Southeast, near the Connecticut border, and he was pronounced dead at Danbury Hospital, said a spokesman for his company.
        He was the president and chief executive of Alexander Summer  L.L.C., with offices in Paramus and Morristown. The company deals in real estate development, brokerage, leasing and management.
        A family concern, it was founded by his grandmother about 80 years ago and carried on by his father, Alexander Sr., who died last year.
        The von Summers, who originally came from Germany, muted the ''von'' during World War I but more recently restored it, though not to the company name.
        The younger Alexander, who was born in Englewood, graduated from Dartmouth College, entered the family business in 1962 and became its third-generation owner.
        He expanded its development and brokerage business and, among other things, was the owner and developer of the Atrium, a five-story office building in Paramus.
        The Summer company was involved in the development of the Bergen Mall in Paramus, New Jersey's first large-scale shopping center. Another of its projects was the Mall at Short Hills in Millburn, one of the first upscale shopping malls in the country.
        Mr. von Summer was active in various business organizations, holding leading positions in the Commerce and Industry Association, the New Jersey Association of Realtors, the New Jersey Council of the Multi-Housing Industry and the New Jersey Builders, Owners and Managers Association. He was a director of Summit Bank in New Jersey and a co-founder of the Dartmouth College Real Estate Advisory Committee.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Fellows von Summer; a son, Alexander 3d, of Greenwich, Conn.; two daughters, Kristen von Summer of Manhattan and Hollis von Summer of Washington; a sister, Rosalin von Summer, also of Manhattan; a stepson, Christopher Cotter of Denver, and a stepdaughter, Courtney Cotter of Greenwich.
      