
        David J. Brodsky, who retired in 1993 as executive vice president of the Educational Testing Service, died on Sunday at the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. Mr. Brodsky, who made his home in Princeton, was 66.
        The cause of death was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, according to the service.
        Mr. Brodsky's career of nearly 40 years with Educational Testing Service, based in Lawrence Township, N.J., paralleled its growth into the world's largest private educational measurement organization.
        Mr. Brodsky, who was expert in finance and management, played a major role in the physical expansion of the nonprofit corporation to 16 buildings in Mercer County, N.J., as well as its adoption of computer-based tests and computerization of the processing of applications and answer sheets.
        Between 1955, when Mr. Brodsky joined Educational Testing Service, and 1993, when he retired, its income grew to more than $365 million a year from $3 million and its staff to 2,400 from 375.
        The Educational Testing Service develops and administers achievement, occupational and admission tests for clients in government, business and education, perhaps the best known being the Scholastic Assessment Test, or S.A.T., for the College Board. Each year, Educational Testing Service and its subsidiary, Chauncey Group International, administer 9 million tests in the United States and 180 other countries.
        After joining the Educational Testing Service in 1955 as a planning officer, Mr. Brodsky served successively as controller, treasurer, financial vice president and senior vice president before becoming executive vice president for financial, legal, administrative and technological operations.
        In so doing, he developed the expertise that prompted other nonprofit research and educational organizations to borrow him.
        On loan in 1965, he served as chief administrative officer and treasurer for the Institute for Educational Development, established to forge working relationships between educational and commercial organizations.
        Similarly, in 1968, he helped organize and develop the Urban Institute in Washington by serving as chief financial and administrative officer during the formative first year of the organization, which is devoted to policy research on urban problems.
        Still working on behalf of Educational Testing Service when he retired, Mr. Brodsky traveled to China and the former Soviet Union to help modernize standardized testing techniques in those countries.
        At his retirement, trustees of the Educational Testing Service named the art gallery in the Henry Chauncey Conference Center on the grounds of the testing service the David J. Brodsky Gallery in recognition of his longtime support of the arts with his wife, Judith Kapstein Brodsky, a printmaker and professor of visual arts at Rutgers University.
        Besides serving on the boards of organizations devoted to community and educational services, Mr. Brodsky taught management courses at the Rutgers University Institute of Management and Labor Relations in New Brunswick, N.J.
        Mr. Brodsky, who was born in Worcester, Mass., graduated from Brown University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1952 and received an M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration in 1954.
        Besides his wife of 43 years, he is survived by a daughter, Frances M., of Stanford, Calif.; a son, John B., of Scarsdale N.Y.; two sisters, Thelma S. Lockwood of Worcester and Barbara E. Brodsky of Philadelphia, and two grandchildren.
      