
        Harold Epstein, the elder statesman of the horticultural world, who invariably insisted that gardening was just a hobby but whose one-and-a-half-acre site in Larchmont, N.Y., contained a collection matched by few other American gardeners, died at his home on Tuesday. He was 94.
        His health had been in decline for some months, said his son-in-law, Dr. Theodore Cherbuliez.
        At the time of Mr. Epstein's death, he was working on his long-term project, the classification of the genus Epimedium, a semi-evergreen ground cover, aided by his gardener of more than 20 years, Lois Himes, of Westport, Conn. A new Chinese species had recently been named for him. In February, he attended what was to be his last meeting of the Hortus Club of New York, an elite men's gardening group that he co-founded with Thomas H. Everett in 1952. Mr. Epstein was its president until 1977.
        He was born in Manhattan and graduated from New York University. Few of his admirers realized that he was a totally self-taught horticulturist who had been practicing certified public accountant until 1963 when, he said, a heart attack persuaded him to indulge his love of traveling and plants.
        The saga of his ''garden insanity,'' as he sometimes called it, began in 1939, shortly after he and his wife, Esta, moved to Larchmont. Never having gardened before, he sought the advice of Elizabeth C. Hall, the doyenne of horticultural librarians, at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. She introduced him to Mr. Everett, a transplanted British horticulturist on the garden's staff who had recently helped found the American Rock Garden Society. It was to be the beginning of a lifetime collaboration.
        Within a few years Mr. Epstein had not only joined Mr. Everett's new organization, but inaugurated its quarterly bulletin, started a seed exchange and organized an annual symposium. All these endeavors continue. Mr. Epstein was the Rock Garden Society's national president for 16 years and at his death was president emeritus.
        He also served as president of the Greater New York Orchid Society, as well as the Men's Garden Club of New York and the Northeast Region of the American Rhododendron Society. He served, too, on the boards of directors of the New Jersey State Botanical Garden in Ringwood, N.J., and the American Horticultural Society, for whom he organized and conducted garden travel programs throughout the world from 1963 to 1983.
        ''I've circled the globe four times, with 29 trips to Japan, my favorite destination,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1991. Traveling with his wife, he clearly thrived on finding, collecting and introducing horticultural prizes not previously found in American gardens . His first such introduction was in 1949 when he returned with a Korean lilac Syringa meyeri Palibin.
        He was soon donating or swapping seeds, seedlings, or cuttings, of the unusual plants he had found throughout the country. Among these finds were innumerable rare cultivars of azaleas and rhododendrons, as well as the flowering vine Schizophragma hydrangeoides, and the golden ornamental grass Hakonechloa macra Aureola. Many of his introductions have found their way into commercial trade and are now accepted as the norm by home gardeners.
        Among his favorite lecturing sites were the New York Botanical Garden, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, the Alpine Garden Society of Great Britain and the Japan Alpine Rock Garden Society. His writings appeared in several of the journals of the societies, and he received awards from the Horticultural Society of New York, the American Horticultural Society, the American Rock Garden Society and the American Orchid Society.
        Mr. Epstein is survived by his wife of nearly 70 years, the former Esta Miriam Bluth; two daughters, Susan Cherbuliez, a landscape architect from Scarsdale, N.Y., and Laurel Loeb of Carbondale, Colo.; five granddaughters, and one great-granddaughter.
        Until recently he could be found clambering over his own rocky acreage leading visitors on breathless tours, all the while reeling off the complex Latin names of the uncommon treasures tucked in the crevices. One of his jewels, which he called ''the biggest thing I've done in this lifetime,'' was a dawn redwood, now some 150 feet high. This tree, which dates to the time of the dinosaurs, was believed extinct in 1948 when he was given one of the first seeds brought by botanists from China to Harvard's Arnold Arboretum.
        ''Over the years he's shared with us many unusual plants, and these have become part of the garden as well as our annual rare plant auctions,'' said Marco Polo Stufano, director of horticulture at the Wavehill  Center for Environmental Studies in the Bronx, where a celebration to honor Mr. Epstein's dedication to horticulture has been scheduled for Oct. 6.
      