
        Max E. Youngstein, a film producer and Hollywood executive who had a principal role in a 1950's financial rescue of United Artists, the legendary movie company, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84.
        As head of production and marketing for United Artists from 1951 to 1962, he gave the final go-ahead for such prize-winning films as ''Marty'' in 1955 and ''Around the World in 80 Days'' in 1956.
        In those days, United Artists executives stayed in the background, courting independent producers who received full control and credit, ''as long as they stayed within the budget,'' said David Picker, a New York television executive who succeeded Mr. Youngstein as production chief at United Artists.
        Mr. Youngstein also started and headed the United Artists records and music units.
        After leaving the company and becoming an independent producer himself, his film credits included ''Fail Safe'' with Henry Fonda in 1964, ''The Money Trap'' with Glenn Ford and Rita Hayworth in 1966, and ''Welcome to Hard Times,'' also with Mr. Fonda, in 1967.
        Born in New York in 1913, Mr. Youngstein was a graduate of Fordham University and Brooklyn Law School. He was a 28-year-old lawyer when he got his first film industry job in 1941, as advertising and publicity director of 20th Century Fox. In 1944, during World War II, he was publicity director of the film and special events sections of the Treasury Department war bonds division.
        After the war, he was an executive of various film companies including Stanley Kramer Productions, Eagle Lion Films and Paramount Pictures. In 1951, he moved to United Artists.
        Founded in 1919 as a distributor and later financial backer for independent producers by the silent film stars Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks Sr. and Charlie Chaplin, and the director D. W. Griffith, United Artists was ''going rapidly downhill'' after World War II, Mr. Youngstein once said, and the remaining principals, Chaplin and Pickford, were not on good terms.
        Mr. Youngstein was the last survivor of five partners, who were promised 50 percent of the company if they could return United Artists to profitability within three years. They included the New York lawyers Arthur Krim and Robert Benjamin; Mr. Picker's uncle, Arnold Picker, who was an international marketing executive at Columbia Pictures, and Bill Heineman, who took charge of domestic sales at United Artists.
        After they succeeded, the partners bought the remaining shares. They took the company public in 1957, and it later became a unit of the TransAmerica Corporation and then Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
        In Mr. Youngstein's day at United Artists, decisions on which films to bankroll were made by consensus of the partners, but David Picker said:  ''Max, as head of production, had the most influence. He was exciting and energetic, a man of insatiable enthusiasm. He just made an extraordinary impression on everyone he met.''
        Survivors include his wife, Reva; four daughters, Malka, who works in marketing for Columbia Tristar International; Helen Verno, a senior vice president of Columbia Tristar Television, both of Los Angeles; Peggy Trigger of Georgetown, Ky., and Ruth, of Boca Raton, Fla.; a son, David, who works in film distribution for Paramount Pictures in New York; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      