
        Alexander Robertus Todd, a Scottish biochemist whose investigations of the building blocks of heredity earned him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1957, died on Friday in Cambridge, England, where he made his home. He was 89.
        He explored the structure of nucleic acids, the components nature uses to build genes and chromosomes. In determining the general chemistry of those acids, he made a groundbreaking contribution that closed in on the secrets of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid.
        Dr. Todd provided knowledge about the mechanisms that underlie the highly intricate processes of nature and life, steps that allowed others to work out the structure of genes, including the celebrated ''double helix'' of the DNA molecule discovered by James Watson and Francis Crick.
        More immediately, his discoveries shed light on the question of how genetic characteristics, and particularly genetic diseases, are passed from one generation to the next.
        An imposing man who stood 6 feet 4 inches tall and was known by his students as Todd Almighty, he was given a life peerage in 1962, taking the name Lord Todd, Baron of Trumpington. In addition to his work in nucleic acids, he helped solve the puzzle of the chemical structure of vitamin B-12, studied cannabis and hashish and worked on chemical warfare during World War II.
        In announcing his Nobel Prize, the Swedish Academy of Sciences cited Dr. Todd, then 50 years old, for his years of probing the world of proteins, particularly nucleotides and nucleotide co-enzymes. It wrote:
        ''The name nucleotide refers to the fact that the compounds in question are present in cell nuclei, where they form a regular constituent of chromosomes. They occur also in other biological systems; for example, together with proteins they form part of the virus molecules, and further, various co-enzymes are nucleotides of special structure.''
        It was not the first time Lord Todd had caught the world's attention. In 1952 he and his co-workers at Cambridge synthesized three substances that act as the biochemical sparkplugs in the engine of a life cell.
        Those were the co-enzymes, or mediators, between living and nonliving processes. They are organic substances that can react with a protein to form biologically active enzymes -- catalysts that promote chemical reactions. This development was hailed by scientists as a triumph.
        In 1955 he led a team of Cambridge chemists who reported the solution of what was one of nature's most perplexing puzzles: the exact chemical structure of vitamin B-12. The substance, found in liver and liver extract, keeps alive victims of pernicious anemia.
        Its properties had been known since 1926, but it took a quarter of a century to define the nature of the anti-pernicious anemia principle in the liver. The finding made it possible to produce the molecule of the vitamin synthetically.
        Reading reports of the feat in the press, Dr. Todd went to some lengths to point out the contributions of his collaborators. A letter to the editor of The New York Times listed the names of the X-ray crystallographers who had made his report to the scientific community possible.
        Born in Glasgow on Oct. 2, 1907, he graduated with high honors from its university in 1928. Three years later he received a doctorate at the University of Frankfurt with a dissertation on bile acid chemistry and returned to Britain for postdoctoral studies at Oxford.
        There he was one of the first chemists to work on the structure of vitamin B-1 (thiamine) and developed a synthesis still in use in its manufacture. Influential in synthesizing vitamins for commercial application, he also investigated active ingredients in cannabis and hashish. In World War II he developed and produced chemical warfare agents.
        He spent most of his academic career at Cambridge, holding the Chair of Organic Chemistry from 1944 to 1971. He also taught at several other institutions, including the University of Chicago and the Massachusetts Institute of Technolgy, and was Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde from 1965 to 1991.
        In addition to a knighthood in 1954 and a life peerage in 1962, he was honored with the Order of Merit in 1977 and garnered medals and honorary degreess from around the world.
        In 1937 he married Alison Sarah Dale, daughter of Sir Henry Hallett Dale, a Nobel-Prize-winning physiologist. She died in 1987. His survivors include their son, Alexander Henry; and two daughters, Helen Jean, and Hilary Alison.
        He wrote ''A Time to Remember: The Autobiography of a Chemist'' (Cambridge University Press, 1984).
        In 1957, informed that he had won the Nobel, Dr. Todd said he felt ''slightly ludicrous.'' He said it was ''much more of a tribute to a lot of the boys who have worked with me.''
        What that work did, he explained, was to trace the fundamental chemical structure of nucleic acids -- the  material that passes genetic characteristics from the mother cell to the offspring.
        ''When you know the structure of these things,'' he said at the time, ''you can begin to find out how they pass on characteristics. If you do that, you've gone a long way toward finding out what life is.''
      