
        Henry Salvatori, an Italian-born geophysicist who founded an international oil exploration company and used his fortune to sponsor Los Angeles institutions and conservative causes, like the political career of Ronald Reagan, died last Sunday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica. He was 96 and had lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Salvatori and his wife, Grace Ford Salvatori, who died in 1990, donated to colleges around the country but were mainstay contributors to Los Angeles-area schools, hospitals and civic causes, including the Los Angeles Music Center. He was also considered a conservative kingmaker and member of Mr. Reagan's ''kitchen cabinet'' of intimates.
        Born in Rome, Mr. Salvatori came to the United States as a child and grew up on a farm in southern New Jersey, where his father was a grocery wholesaler. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, earned a master's degree at Columbia University and became an expert in the then-new science of finding oil by seismic technology.
        He used new devices to locate deposits on land and under the ocean with greater accuracy and turned the Western Geophysical Corporation, which he founded in 1933, into a highly profitable enterprise. By the late 1950's it was the world's foremost offshore seismic contractor.
        After selling the company to Litton Industries in 1960, Mr. Salvatori became an eminence grise on the staunchly conservative wing of the Republican Party, with significant influence on its stalwarts in California and nationally. He supported the Presidential campaigns of Barry M. Goldwater and Richard M. Nixon  and bolstered Mr. Reagan throughout his political career.
        He acted as a political adviser, campaign director or finance chairman, but always as a substantial contributor. Such was his influence in California politics that one detractor, Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco, once charged that it was Mr. Salvatori, rather than then-Governor Reagan, who wielded the real power in Sacramento. Jesse Unruh, then Speaker of the California Assembly, announced his unsuccessful Democratic gubernatorial challenge to Mr. Reagan in 1970 outside Mr. Salvatori's home in Bel Air.
        Mr. Salvatori is survived by a son, Henry Ford Salvatori; a daughter, Laurie S. Champion, and a grandson. Mr. Salvatori and his wife were married for 54 years.
      