
        Ron Andersen, a leading personality in the world of bridge, died on July 3 at North-West Hospital in Chicago. He was 56.
        While officiating as chief commentator at the European Bridge Championships in Italy last month, he suffered two strokes associated with kidney failure, said his brother Kenneth Andersen of Dike, Iowa. He was flown home to Chicago, where he suffered a third stroke.
        In 1977, Mr. Andersen became the first player to win more than 2,000 master points in a calendar year, giving him the Barry Crane Top 500 title, which designates the top player on the tournament circuit.
        He won the title again in 1980 and 1983, setting new point records both times, and in 1986.
        He was a three-time winner of the prestigious Spingold Knockout Team Championship, in 1983, 1986 and 1988, and his eight other national titles included two victories in the Reisinger Board-a-Match Team Championship, in 1980 and 1992.
        He was a four-time runner-up in the Vanderbilt Knockout Team Championship, and he won hundreds of regional titles.
        He represented the United States in several world championships, with his best result a tie for fifth in the 1984 World Team Olympiad.
        Mr. Andersen was also a commentator for major championships, and he officiated at hundreds of regional, national and world championships. Often paired with Edgar Kaplan of Manhattan, he described the proceedings as shown on the Vugraph screen.
        He was the first choice of the American Contract Bridge League and the World Bridge Federation to head panels of expert players to discuss the action.
        He lectured widely and was also an author. Seven of his books concerned the Precision System, with C. C.Wei and Kathie Wei as co-authors. His most recent book was ''Preempts From A to Z,'' with Sabine Zenkel (Magnus, Stamford, Conn., 1993).
        Mr. Andersen was born in Cedar Falls, Iowa, and studied for three years at the University of Iowa before taking up bridge as a career. For the last six years, he owned a seat on the Chicago Options Exchange.
        He was married three times, and two of his former wives are world bridge champions: Sue Picus of Manhattan and Sabine Zenkel Auken of Copenhagen.
        In addition to his brother Kenneth, he is survived by another brother, Gary, of Dike, and a sister, Diane Burns of Portland, Ore.
      