
        Frank R. Parker, a civil-rights lawyer who was an authority on voting-rights law, died on Thursday at a hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 57 and lived in Lexington.
        The cause was complications from an aortic aneurysm, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Parker was a visiting law professor at Washington and Lee University in Lexington.
        For a dozen years until 1981, he was first a staff attorney, then assistant chief counsel and chief counsel in the Mississippi office of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. In that year, a rather flamboyant figure with a red beard, he told an interviewer that his civil rights experience had made him ''acutely aware of the difficulties encountered in trying to implement civil rights legislation before judges who might be hostile to the goals and purposes of the law.''
        Reviewing his book, 'Black Votes Count: Political Empowerment in Mississippi After 1965'' (University of North Carolina, 1990) in The New York Times Book Review, Michael Barone, a historian of 20th-century America, wrote that Mr. Parker, along with ''many black and white Mississippians changed what seemed an unchangeably racist politics into one in which citizens have a good chance of getting fair representation.''
        For years, beginning in the late 1960's, Mr. Parker directed the legal strategy to win redistricting for black plaintiffs because he said the current multimember districts diluted black voting strength in state legislative elections, and he had a string of successes with the United States Supreme Court.
        By late 1977, his efforts to win redistricting had won acceptance by the Supreme Court in establishing guidelines for reapportionment in Mississippi.
        In 1980, after Mr. Parker filed a lawsuit asking that an alternative state history textbook be offered in Mississippi, a Federal District Court Judge, Orma R. Smith, ordered the the Mississippi State Textbook Purchasing Board not to reject any textbook for racial reasons and to make  a multiracial, multiethnic history textbook available to ninth graders that has been rejected six years earlier as ''too controversial'' and ''too racially oriented.''
        For more than a decade, until 1993, Mr. Parker was the Washington-based director of the Lawyers' Committee's voting-rights project.
        Frank Parker was born in Mt. Pleasant, Pa., and graduated in 1962 from Oberlin College. He studied at Oxford and received his law degree from Harvard in 1966.
        He was married to Virginia Foster Durr and to Carolyn Parker, but both marriages ended in divorce.
        Mr. Parker's survivors include his third wife, Ann Burlock Lawver; two sons, Ian of Redondo Beach, Calif., and Kevin of Jackson, Miss.; two daughters, Barbara Golden Parker and Stephanie Parker Weaver, both of Jackson; a stepson, Max E. Lawver of Richmond, Ga.; two grandchildren; his father, Frank Sr. of Mason, Ohio; a sister, Kay Parker Scheidler of Providence, R.I.; and three brothers, Joseph of Mason, Ohio, Phillip of Peachtree City, Ga., and John of Washington.
      