
        Gianni Versace, the man who brought rock, art, sexuality and brilliant color into contemporary fashion, was shot to death yesterday outside his home in Miami Beach. He was 50.
        It is difficult to imagine another designer whose death would drain more life from the industry, an industry now driven by contemporary culture because Mr. Versace made it that way. He leaves behind an $807 million business, with 130 boutiques worldwide, with work ranging from $30,000 dresses to $50 jeans to china with his Medusa logo on it.
        ''I think it's the responsibility of a designer to try to break rules and barriers,'' he once said. ''I'm a little like Marco Polo, going around and mixing cultures.''
        When Mr. Versace began his career in 1972, serious designer fashion was a dusty place, its wealthy clients removed from what was happening on the street, in modern art, in film. Mr. Versace found his inspiration there, force-feeding even the most recalcitrant client his eclectic knowledge of the real world. The distinctiveness of his powerful prints, their roots in the historic past became the archetype for modern fashion: a movable signature that defines the wearer as co-conspirator with a designer mind.
        ''You look at his work as a whole, and there is a through line of the Versace energy and spirit,'' said Ingrid Sischy, the editor of Interview magazine and a close friend. ''It's all him. But then on top of it is a diary of the things that have been going on in the world, in the pop culture.'' His legacy, she said, would be ''a rare, particularly in our age, synthesis of craft, classicism and the pop culture.''
        A Career That Started In His Mother's Studio
        Born in the town of Reggio Calabria on the toe of Italy, he grew up watching his mother, Franca, work as a dressmaker with 45 seamstresses in her studio. Mr. Versace once recalled that the couture workroom was his playground as a child, and that just before his mother ''started cutting, she would always cross herself.''
        He worked with his mother after he graduated from high school. ''Designing came to me,'' he once said. ''I didn't have to move.'' But he did move, in 1972, to Milan, where he was hired by several Italian fashion industrialists to create collections.
        ''When you are born in a place such as Calabria and there is beauty all around a Roman bath, a Greek remain, you cannot help but be influenced by the classical past,'' he once said. Those themes, the Italian Baroque, Grecian motifs and Estruscan symbols, were woven into his collections, as were the themes of today: celebrity, rock, pop art, metal, plastic, even bondage, with notorious dresses he completed with straps of leather.
        His name became synonymous for many with vulgarity because of the way those Baroque themes translated into flashy fashion, typified by the embrace of his clothes as an object of aspiration in the movie ''Showgirls''.
        ''He was the first to realize the value of the celebrity in the front row, and the value of the supermodel, and put fashion on an international media platform,'' said Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue and a friend. ''He relished media attention and masterminded it, and everybody followed in his footsteps.''
        As much as Mr. Versace invented in fashion itself, he altered the presentation of the art completely. The first designer to tap into the publicity machine that the fashion show of today has become, he filled his front row with celebrity faces, who were then photographed in high-profile advertising campaigns shot by Richard Avedon, Bruce Weber, Herb Ritts and Helmut Newton. Madonna, Jon Bon Jovi, the Artist (formerly known as Prince), Elton John and, most recently, Patricia Arquette have all posed to sell Versace. That advertising was often erotic, rejected by conservative publications for showing more nudity than fashion. He commissioned music for his shows from performers like the Artist (formerly known as Prince), who sang about ''The Versace Experience,'' and he distributed limited edition compact disks to his audience.
        Giving Celebrities Shelter From the Storm
        Mr. Versace was so intrigued by whatever was going on in the world that he embraced many celebrities at the height of any controversy, providing a safe house for those with a battered image -- Mike Tyson, the Princess of Wales, Soon Yi Previn and Woody Allen. Mr. Allen had asked Mr. Versace to be in his next film.
        ''I think he had a natural movie star personality, because he had such a large and generous presence,'' Mr. Allen said yesterday.
        What those celebrities received in return was an Italian family. Mr. Versace's showplace homes on Lake Como, in Milan, on Miami Beach and in Manhattan were more than anything places where he would entertain friends.
        ''We talked about family,'' Mr. Bon Jovi said. ''Family was important. He was the most warm, caring, sensitive family man.''
        Mr. Versace's brother, Santo, and his sister, Donatella, helped him start his own house in 1978. Today, Ms. Versace is creative director of the house and designs the Versus collection; Santo is the president of the company, and Paul Beck, Ms. Versace's husband, is the director of Versace's men's wear. Gianni Versace's companion of 11 years, Antonio D'Amico, designs Versace Sport for the house.
        The Versace family -- including his nieces and nephews, Francesca and Antonio, from his brother's marriage to Cristina,  and Allegra and Daniel, Donatella's children -- are often in the front row of shows, giving the events, held in his palazzo on Via Gesu in Milan, the feel of an invitation to a wedding.
        ''When I saw him the happiest and not thinking about the next collection was when he was with the children,'' Ms. Wintour said. ''It's what he was building this empire for. It meant the most to him. It was when you saw him at ease.''
        Mr. Versace said the structure of his business was based on family structure, as in the Italian Renaissance. ''You can trust them,'' he had said of his family. ''You can fight with them and be back in love. We can fight at 6 o'clock and have a nice dinner at 8.''
        While so many designers become famous and cloister themselves away, Mr. Versace had a voracious appetite for knowledge, and when he learned something, he shared it with his audience through his work, be it the three-dimensional mobiles of Alexander Calder that he translated into couture dresses, the Byzantine mosaics he used as prints, or the hard leather punk look.
        ''The most amazing thing about him is he was so fearless about the new,'' Sandra Brant, the publisher of Interview, said. ''The other thing that was incredible was that he always wanted to give a nudge to the world to be more open.''
        It wasn't uncommon to see 50 books stacked on a single table at one of his houses. He employed a full-time librarian, who organized the five libraries he kept.
        When he would arrive in New York, where he had a town house on 64th Street, he would call Ms. Sischy and Ms. Brant to go to galleries, museums or art studios. He was more than a collector of art, Ms. Sischy said; he was a blotter for art, absorbing it, contemplating it and sometimes bringing the colors or ideas into his collections.
        At a dinner last year, he was seated with Madonna, Elton John and Tupac Shakur. ''But the person he left with at 2 in the morning was Philip Taaffe, because he wanted to go to the studio,'' Ms. Sischy recalled. ''He wasn't running off with Madonna to a late-night cabaret. He had a lot of options that night. But what he wanted to do was look at this artist's studio.''
        Turned Toward Couture After Shows in Museums
        His intense curiosity about the new was what kept his collections fresh and innovative. There are many designers who never fail when designing fashion. Mr. Versace made his failures part of his success. To follow his progress was to see a designer in  evolution. He was a rich, successful man when he decided to design couture for the first time in January 1989, already the subject of more than 20 museum exhibitions. He had designed costumes for La Scala, Maurice Bejart, Robert Wilson, William Forsythe, Twyla Tharp and the San Francisco Opera.
        Only love of his craft could make a designer undertake such a risk as couture, when he had no need of the publicity and the risk might never yield rewards. Yet, time and again he absorbed criticism, and improved his collections strikingly. Those who had written him off early on for his cartoonlike style were forced to concede that he had molded himself into one of the most important couturiers of his generation in only seven years.
        Yet, the seriousness with which he approached his art never weighed down the results. Mr. Versace was intent on making his clothes, and his presentations, fun, memorable, exciting. Despite the work that went into his collections, he never wanted to make viewing them work. He saw himself as a man with four mind-sets: conservative, crazy, rock and theater. The way he succumbed to those impulses, or let them fight it out on the runway, was the drama of his work.
        ''Gianni and I were like brothers,'' Elton John said. ''We were very similar. We had the same taste. He taught me about art, and I taught him about music. He was someone on my level of thinking. We were continually trying to improve our creativity. You never left him without being stimulated about some aspect of fashion or art or life. There was no fear with Gianni. Sometimes he was right, and sometimes he was wrong. Every artist is like that.''
        Mr. John's companion, David Furnish, said that Mr. Versace continually sent faxes to his friends, ''letting you know he was looking and listening,'' even flying to New York to attend the premiere of Mr. Furnish's documentary about Mr. John, ''Tantrums and Tiaras.''
        ''He came as a gesture of support,'' Mr. Furnish said. ''If I had to sum Gianni up in one word, it's passion. I never met someone with such a passion for life, and beauty, and living. He enjoyed life, devoured it, and gave it all back to the world. He is someone who was doing what he was born to do and he got so much pleasure from it.''
        It is the life and passion imbued in his work that has made his violent death so surreal to those in the industry. Despite a battle with a rare cancer of the inner ear in 1993, despite the sort of visibility and fame that modern culture has shown to bring vulnerability, Mr. Versace never seemed vulnerable. Surrounded by his family and a regular retinue of celebrities and friends, he seemed protected, if only by the sense that modern fashion could not go on without him.
        After his cancer was diagnosed, he said:  ''There were a lot of tests and scans and treatments that were hard. But as I said, I'm very optimistic. I never fall down. I always fight.'' Mr. Versace lived his entire life with an eye to his legacy. He commissioned works from Julian Schnabel and Roy Lichtenstein, among others, which incorporated his image, or images of his family, into the work.
        ''He had an innate sense that he would have a place in history,'' Ms. Sischy said. ''The way he functioned he never got buried in pettiness. People that don't get buried in pettiness, people that push for the big picture are people who know they're going for something bigger than the present.''
        He once spoke about why he produced so much: a home-decorating collection and two each of couture, men's-wear and women's ready-to-wear collections a year.
        ''You know I talk through my work, and I want to talk more,'' he said. ''At the beginning of my career, it was very hard to go up. Now, it's very hard to stay on top. You have to stay there, and I want to stay there so badly. I'm still standing.''
      