
        Samuel Brookner Gould, a visionary educator who fused 58 New York campuses into today's unified State University system, died Friday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 86 and had lived in Sarasota since his retirement in 1970.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Richard.
        Consolidating the state's loose federation of campuses into a unified institution stood high on the agenda when Nelson A. Rockefeller moved into the Governor's Mansion in 1959. With the blessing of the Legislature, he entrusted that ambitious, and costly, undertaking to Mr. Gould in 1964, choosing him as SUNY's fourth president -- the title then in use.
        ''If you want to preview the American university of the 21st century,''  Rockefeller said in 1968, ''look at what is happening in higher education at SUNY today.''
        Under Mr. Gould's leadership, its enrollment grew sharply, to 139,000 in 1968 from 48,000 in 1960. Devoid of one central campus, it had 4 major centers at Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo and Stony Brook, 10 senior colleges in the arts and sciences, 2 medical centers, 7 specialized colleges varying in focus from forestry to labor relations and an array of junior colleges and two-year technical and agricultural schools.
        Mr. Gould sought to mesh the parts while keeping SUNY from deteriorating into a chain of clones. ''The worst that could happen to this university,'' he said, ''is that one campus would become like another.''
        Upon his resignation in 1970, the SUNY trustees designated him Chancellor emeritus. By then enrollment in the system had surpassed 300,000; nationally recognized scholars and scientists taught at SUNY, and the physical plant had tripled  and transformed every campus in the system.
        Previously, in 1962, Mr. Gould was named president of Educational Television for the Metropolitan Area Inc., which had just acquired Channel 13. Programming had yet to begin, and it was with Mr. Gould's guidance that the fledgling project became a fixture in the area's cultural life.
        Samuel Gould was born in New York City and grew up in small-town Connecticut. He graduated from Bates College and studied at Oxford and Cambridge Universities before receiving his A.M. degree at New York University in 1936.
        He served with the Navy in the Pacific in World War II, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander. He joined the staff of Boston University and set up a department of communication arts, under whose auspices he inaugurated Boston's first FM radio station, WBUR, along with a television studio and a theater.
        A promotion made him assistant to the university president in 1950. Four years later he was named president of Antioch College. His last position before tackling the nascent Channel 13 provided a foretaste of SUNY: he was Chancellor of the University of California at Santa Barbara from 1959 to 1962.
        After SUNY, Mr. Gould headed the Commission on Nontraditional Study, was president of the Institute for Educational Development and served as interim State Commissioner of Higher Education for Connecticut.
        Having ''retired'' to Florida in 1974, he helped draw up a master plan for higher education in that state and served 10 years on the board of the University of South Florida-New College.
        Mr. Gould is survived by his son, Dr. Richard Gould of Barrington, R.I. His wife, Laura Ohman Gould, died in 1989 after 52 years of marriage.
        In a statement yesterday, the Chancellor of SUNY, John W. Ryan, recalled Mr. Gould as ''one of our greatest visionaries.''
        ''He was a man of enormous brilliance, stature and integrity who set high standards to which we all should aspire,'' Dr. Ryan added. ''Unquestionably, he was a huge figure in the history of the State University.''
      