
        Douglas Huebler, a founder of the Conceptual Art movement, died on Saturday at his home in Truro, Mass. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Huebler was a member of an idealistic generation of artists, including Lawrence Weiner, Joseph Kosuth, Jan Dibbets, Richard Long and Robert Barry, who started their artistic ''counterculture revolution'' in the late 1960's.
        Influenced by Minimalism and the art of Marcel Duchamp, and inclined toward language, mathematics and photography, they often reduced art nearly to pure documentation, if not pure idea. Some of the movement's  earliest exhibitions, organized by the entrepreneur Seth Siegelaub in the late 1960's, took place only in catalogue form.
        Although the ''dematerialization of the art object'' that many of these artists proposed did not come to pass, the legacy of Conceptual Art, the precedence of concept over the object, continues to reverberate throughout contemporary art.
        Mr. Huebler's work, which evolved after his phase of Minimalist painting and sculpture, was among the most ephemeral and mind-teasing. In a famous statement, he wrote in 1970: ''The world is full of objects, more or less interesting; I do not wish to add any more. I prefer, simply, to state the existence of things in terms of time and place.''
        This effort took many modest forms, many of which reflected his deep love of nature as well as extensive readings in Asian philosophy. For example, ''Duration Piece No. 7'' (1969) consists of 15 photographs made at one-minute intervals of ''11 geese and an occasional pigeon'' milling about a bench in Central Park, and a characteristic explanatory statement.
        Sometimes maps would join the texts and photographs, as when Mr. Huebler drew a hexagon on a map of Windham, Mass., and photographed the five randomly determined points. In similar fashion, he photographed the sky over 13 states as he flew coast to coast in an airplane. Perhaps his most ambitious project was a plan to document ''the existence of everyone alive'' photographically, which he began in 1970; he worked on it intermittently for the remainder of his life.
        Mr. Huebler was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., in 1924. After serving with the Marines during World War II, he studied at the Academie Julien in Paris and at the Cleveland School of Art.
        He earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Michigan and taught at Miami University in Ohio, Bradford College in Massachusetts, Harvard University and for more than 20 years at the California Institute of the Arts (Valencia), where he was dean of the School of Art.
        Beginning in the late 1960's, Mr. Huebler exhibited extensively in galleries and museums in the United States and Europe and was for many years represented by the Leo Castelli Gallery in Manhattan. His work has been seen in many historical surveys of Conceptual Art. His most recent solo exhibition was a retrospective at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels in 1994.
        Mr. Huebler's first marriage, to Mary Brock, ended in divorce in 1973. He is survived by his wife, Stephani Weinschel, and their daughter, Kate Huebler, of Truro; a son and two daughters from his first marriage, Dorne Huebler of Kagel Canyon, Calif., Darcy Huebler of Valencia, Calif., and Dana Huebler, of West Los Angeles; two brothers, Donald, of Wisconsin Rapids, Wis., and Richard, of Allen Park, Mich., and one grandson.
      