
        Charles M. Hardin, professor emeritus of political science at the University of California at Davis and a widely respected advocate of constitutional revision, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in San Francisco. Professor Hardin, who also lived in San Francisco, was 88.
        In 1981, with C. Douglas Dillon, the Secretary of the Treasury under President John F. Kennedy, Professor Hardin was among the co-founders of the bipartisan Committee on the Constitutional System.
        The loosely organized committee, established with 51 directors and some 300 members who included current and former Cabinet officers and White House aides, former members of Congress, labor leaders, lawyers and scholars like Professor Hardin, explores the Constitution and its effectiveness.
        Professor Hardin, who joined with Mr. Dillon, Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas and the historian and political scientist James MacGregor Burns in starting the committee, was described by Professor Burns as the ''intellectual leader of constitutional reform.''
        Professor Hardin, who wrote and spoke until his death about restructuring government, articulated many of his positions as early as 1960. He said then that three years of research had convinced him that if the founding fathers were alive, they would propose a convention to rewrite the Constitution. He advocated abolition of elections determined by the calendar, establishment of means to replace a politically inadequate President and a strong two-party system that offered the electorate a choice between clearly differing platforms.
        ''Fixed calendar elections, although they have worked fairly well, if somewhat crudely, in the past, today have become a booby trap, an invitation to potential enemies to plan harassments and even attacks when the U.S. is most vulnerable,'' he said.
        He pointed out that while much attention had been paid to removing a physically or mentally disabled President, little thought had been given to removing one who failed to measure up politically. He said, ''Such a leader might be one who can no longer sense that the nation is in mortal danger, or, if he can sense it, doesn't know what to do or cannot bring himself to do it.''
        Professor Hardin's plans for a book embodying such thoughts were put aside when he left the University of Chicago in 1960 to spend the next four years as a program director at the Rockefeller Foundation in New York City. He traveled extensively through South America and Asia, developing agricultural programs in third world countries.
        In 1964, he was appointed a professor of political science at the University of California at Davis, where he also headed the International Agricultural Institute. He remained at Davis until he retired in 1976.
        In 1974, he set down many of his ideas about government in his book, ''Presidential Power and Accountability.'' His other books included ''The Politics of Agriculture'' (1952), ''Food and Fiber in the Nation's Politics'' (1967) and ''Constitutional Reform in America'' (1989).
        Professor Hardin was born in 1908 in Lander, Wyo., where he grew up. After receiving a bachelor's degree in 1930 from the University of Wyoming and a master's degree from the University of Colorado, in 1941 he obtained a doctorate from Harvard University, where he taught until joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1945. In 1949, he was on the staff of Agriculture Secretary Charles F. Brannan, and in 1964, he was a member of the Task Force on Agricultural Policy set up by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Professor Hardin, who married in 1933, is survived by his wife, the former Sallie Gibson; his daughter, Julia Hardin Hansen, two grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      