
        Arthur L. Liman, a masterly legal strategist who made his living representing both corporate tycoons and scalawags but made his public mark investigating pivotal events like the Iran-contra affair and the Attica prison uprising, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment.
        He was 64 and had been suffering from bladder cancer, his wife, Ellen, said.
        In an age of celebrity lawyers, Arthur Liman may not have rung as many bells of instant recognition as flashier types like Johnnie Cochran and F. Lee Bailey.
        Though dazzling as a legal strategist, Mr. Liman was the antithesis of flash: a man with an often distracted and rumpled manner, a lumbering gait and an unruly hank of hair that spilled across his forehead.
        ''Walter Matthau doing a Perry Mason impersonation'' was how a magazine writer described him a few years ago.
        But stylistic quirks did not disguise the fact that Mr. Liman was widely regarded as one of the best trial lawyers of his day, especially when it came to defending people charged with securities fraud or other white-collar crimes.
        Most Americans got their best chance to evaluate his skills first-hand in the spring and summer of 1987, when he became a familiar figure as chief counsel to the Senate committee investigating the Reagan Administration's arms-for-hostages scheme known as the Iran-contra affair.
        Televised images of Mr. Liman jousting with Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North and other witnesses remain fixed in the collective national memory, as do disputes over who got the best of whom in those epic Congressional hearings.
        Some critics accused the committee of failing to pursue all possible leads that would have shown President Ronald Reagan's involvement in the affair. Others complained that Mr. Liman was not aggressive enough in questioning Colonel North, who emerged from the hearings as a patriotic hero in many eyes.
        Sometimes Honey, Always Cold Steel
        But the chief counsel rejected all such charges. No leads were ignored, and in fact the committee learned all there was to know about the Iran-contra matter, he said later. As for his interrogation techniques, they tended to be crisp and no-nonsense, but they also depended on the person in the witness chair. ''If in order to get the same facts out of a witness you have to use honey, I use honey,'' he said.
        A longtime partner in the New York firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, Mr. Liman was considered a master of cross-examination, a litigator who used his gifts of a cold-steel intellect, total recall of intricate details and supreme self-assurance to drive straight to the heart of a case and through the defenses of a hostile witness.
        ''Liman is brilliant and methodical,'' Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, once said of the man he had worked with in the early 1960's, when Mr. Morgenthau was the United States Attorney in Manhattan. ''He can take a witness's socks off, leaving his shoes still on and securely tied.''
        Mr. Liman said that the courtroom was one place where he could actually relax. ''I can remember every word that every witness says,'' he once told an interviewer. ''There isn't a gesture that I miss. There's a level of concentration that you almost can't attain anywhere else.''
        It did not mean that he won every case. And it certainly did not mean that everyone who paid hundreds of dollars an hour for his services qualified even remotely as a saint.
        He represented some who walked the shady side of the law, people like Robert L. Vesco, the fugitive financier; Dennis B. Levine, the convicted Wall Street inside trader; Michael R. Milken, who admitted to violating Federal securities law, and John Zaccaro, the husband of former Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro, who pleaded guilty to fraudulently obtaining financing for a multimillion-dollar real estate deal.
        His blue-chip clients at Paul Weiss included Time-Warner, GAF, Weyerhaeuser, Pennzoil, Heinz, Continental Grain, CBS and Calvin Klein.
        Pennzoil, which had made a deal to acquire Getty Oil, provided one of his biggest cases in 1985 when it sued Texaco for executing a corporate end run to acquire Getty at the last minute.
        Mr. Liman took the witness stand himself, testifying that he, representing Pennzoil, had shaken hands with Getty board members to seal the deal. The jury found that Texaco had wrongfully interfered and awarded Pennzoil more than $10 billion in damages, a case later settled for $3 billion.
        Fancy Clients, But a 'Garbage Pail,' Too
        But from the start of his career, after graduating from Yale Law School in 1957, Mr. Liman was not content just doing the bidding of corporate clients, no matter how inventive it required him to be or how lucrative the work was.
        Early on, he began shuttling on a regular basis between his private law practice and public service.
        He did so in 1961, leaving Paul Weiss for two years to work for Mr. Morgenthau at the United States Attorney's office, where he described himself as ''the garbage pail,'' taking on cases that no one else wanted. One involved a bartender who was found guilty of watering down his drinks, only to be fined $1 by a judge whose father was a bartender.
        A far more spectacular public service came a decade later when Mr. Liman became chief counsel to the McKay Commission, a state panel that spent a year investigating the inmate rebellion at Attica state prison, in which 43 inmates and guards were killed during four days of rioting and hostage-taking in September 1971.
        Nearly all the deaths occurred in the final minutes of the takeover, after Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller ordered an assault by state troopers to recapture the prison.
        In a gesture intended to allay inmates' fears that the state investigation would amount to nothing but a whitewash, Mr. Liman insisted on sharing dinner with them on Christmas 1971 in the Attica cafeteria. ''I looked into the eyes of a lot of prisoners,'' he later told The New York Times. ''There is little for them to identify with in my background. But we won them over.''
        With Mr. Liman as its driving force, the commission issued a 470-page report in September 1972 that concluded that the troopers' assault was ill-considered and far too harsh, leading to needless loss of life. It was published in book form, so well-written that it was nominated for a National Book Award.
        And it left Mr. Liman with a lasting concern for prison reform, an interest that he pursued in the 1980's as president of the Legal Aid Society for two years and as a member of separate state committees on justice administration and on sentencing procedures. He was also chairman of New York's Capital Defender Office, which helps provide the defense for those accused in capital cases.
        Subways, Autopsies And Oliver North
        Other forays into public life followed Attica.
        In 1979, he represented New York City in a suit against Pullman Inc., and against Rockwell International, a company that had played an important role in the Apollo space program but now had produced 754 defective subway cars.
        How was it, Mr. Liman asked the jury, that Rockwell could put a man on the moon but could not transport a New Yorker from 34th Street to 42d Street?
        He won a $72 million award.
        In 1985, Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed him head of a commission to investigate charges that the city's medical examiner had supplied false autopsy reports on police-custody deaths. This one had more ambiguous results. Mr. Liman's report found evidence of serious mismanagement, but concluded that no crimes had been committed. Later, however, the New York State Health Department found there was enough wrongdoing to charge the chief medical officer, Dr. Elliott M. Gross, with gross negligence and incompetence.
        But for national impact, nothing in Mr. Liman's long career compared with his months as chief counsel to the Senate committee on Iran-contra.
        The scandal centered on the sale of United States arms to Iran in the mid-1980's to obtain the release of American hostages in Lebanon. The sale, which involved diverting some of the profits to Nicaraguan contra insurgents, was done clandestinely and in violation of stated American policy.
        At its core was Colonel North, a Marine Corps officer on the staff of the National Security Council. But other officials in the Reagan Administration were also central figures, notably John M. Poindexter, who was national security adviser from December 1985 to November 1986.
        'Why Don't You Get Off His Back'?
        The 1987 Congressional hearings into the affair captivated the nation, in large measure because the central issue -- never resolved -- echoed the basic question raised in the Watergate scandal earlier: What did the President know, and when?
        With some witnesses, like a retired general named Richard V. Secord, Mr. Liman was a caustic interrogator, asking questions in combative, sarcastic tones. He was far less aggressive when Colonel North's turn came, though the questions remained pointed, enough so that the marine's lawyer snapped, ''Why don't you get off his back?''
        Mr. Liman was well aware from the flood of letters and calls to the Senate committee office -- many directed at him and baldly anti-Semitic -- that the colonel had a large following, people who saw him as a classic case of a jut-jawed patriot being unfairly picked on by lawyers and politicians.
        There seemed to be no end to the criticism of the committee and its chief counsel. They were too tough on Ollie North, some said. No, they were too soft, other charged.
        Still other critics in coming months and years complained that the panel had neglected promising leads, including ones that might have clarified Mr. Reagan's role. There was too great a rush to finish the inquiry, some complained. Yet others thought that the investigation was too narrowly focused, failing to fully explore the broad moral and constitutional issues that had been raised.
        Eventually, Colonel North and Mr. Poindexter, among others, were found guilty of criminal acts, but Federal appeals judges later threw out the convictions.
        Colonel North and Mr. Poindexter had been granted immunity to appear before Congress, and their testimony was later unfairly used against them at a trial, the judges said -- a ruling that sparked still more criticism of the counsel for having given immunity in the first place.
        Throughout, Mr. Liman insisted that the critics were all wrong, that the committee had left no stone unturned, had granted immunity because there was no alternative, had fulfilled its constitutional role and treated witnesses correctly as circumstances warranted.
        ''I think at times I cut through to the soul of Oliver North,'' he told reporters, responding to one line of criticism after the colonel had finished testifying.
        ''The television viewers saw my questioning as: 'Why is this lawyer bothering this man? Why don't they canonize him?' '' he went on.
        ''In due time they will appreciate the fact that the Government of the United States has got to be a Government of law, not men. I think that in time the people of the United States will come to appreciate that.''
        Colonel North attempted to capitalize on his presumed popularity by running for a Senate seat from Virgina in 1994, but he was defeated.
        Earnest and Confident From the Very Start
        Arthur Lawrence Liman was born in New York City on Nov. 5, 1932, and grew up in Lawrence, on Long Island. His parents, Harry and Celia Liman, were teachers, but his father left the classroom to joint the dress-making business that his own father had started.
        It was a bookish family, Arthur Liman told an interviewer, and if anything his older sister, Gladys, now Gladys Phillips of Oceanside, N.Y., ''was always the brighter.''
        Even as a young man, he took himself seriously, an earnestness that was leavened by a sense of humor but that also came with a self-confidence that some took for a certain arrogance.
        He could be notoriously absent-minded. Once, the story goes, he asked his secretary to get someone on the phone, only to be told  the man had died. ''That's O.K.,'' Mr. Liman said distractedly. ''Just leave word.''
        He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1954, having written his senior thesis on, of all topics, the constitutional limits of Congressional investigations. It was the age of Senator Joseph McCarthy, who had attacked ''pink'' professors at Harvard.
        ''You are a product of your upbringing and environment,'' Mr. Liman told Vanity Fair in 1991. ''I grew up in an era when the formative influences were produced by World War II, Nazism, intolerance.''
        ''Anybody that grew up in that kind of environment,'' he said, ''opted for tolerance and what was much more open-minded.''
        After Harvard came Yale Law, where he graduated first in his class. Soon after, he signed on as an associate at Paul Weiss, quickly making his mark at a large, prestigious firm that, then as now, had close ties to the Democratic Party.
        In 1959, he met Ellen Fogelson, a writer and painter, and four months later they were married. Besides his wife and his sister, he is survived by three children: Emily, a neurobiologist; Douglas, a filmmaker, and Lewis, a lawyer who is one of the prosecutors in the Bill Cosby extortion case under way in Federal District Court in Manhattan.
        The Limans had a waterfront home in Westchester in addition to a Fifth Avenue apartment where several rooms are jammed with hundreds of board games from the 19th century.
        Mr. Liman also greatly enjoyed taking his own boat out for deep-sea fishing.
        But as passions go, fishing was a distant second to the law and a desire to juggle parallel public and private worlds.
        ''To me,'' he once said, ''having a successful career in private practice was more than a matter of earning a good living. It gave me the independence when I took public assignments to do what I believed was right.''
        Correction:  July 19, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Arthur L. Liman, the New York trial lawyer best known as chief counsel to the Senate committee investigating the Iran-contra affair, referred incompletely to accusations about a former New York City Medical Examiner, Dr. Elliot M. Gross. While the New York State Health Department brought charges of negligence and incompetence against Dr. Gross in 1985, the charges were dismissed five years later by the State Board of Regents, which oversees the Health Department. (The obituary also misspelled Dr. Gross's given name; it has one ''t,'' not two.)
      