
        Robert Irsay, the owner of the National Football League's Indianapolis Colts and the man who moved the team out of Baltimore under the cover of darkness in 1984, died yesterday in Indianapolis. He was 73.
        The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, but he had been in ill health since suffering a stroke in November 1995. Since then, he had been hospitalized in Indiana and at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., with return trips to his home in Carmel, Ind. He died at Indiana University Medical Center.
        Mr. Irsay became a notorious figure in sports when he shepherded the Colts out of Baltimore late on the night of March 28, 1984. While the city slept, the team packed its belongings into a convoy of yellow Mayflower moving trucks and headed for Indianapolis.
        The move became emblematic of the willingness of sports franchises to leave loyal communities for better deals elsewhere, a trend that escalated in the 1990's. And to Baltimore fans, it placed Mr. Irsay in the company of Walter O'Malley, the Dodger owner who was reviled in New York after moving the baseball team from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958.
        It wasn't until this past season, when the Cleveland Browns relocated to Baltimore and became the Ravens, that N.F.L. football returned to the city.
        The Colts had been a fixture in Baltimore for 31 years, and had thrived on the field with such greats as Alan Ameche and Johnny Unitas, who directed them to the famed 1958 overtime championship victory over the New York Giants in the so-called greatest game ever played.
        But Mr. Irsay was offered a domed stadium by Indianapolis, as well as a guaranteed attendance for 10 years. The notoriety and scorn resulted from the way he left, but he said he had been advised that if he did not get the Colts out of town immediately, the state of Maryland was ready to take over the team on the basis of eminent domain, calling it a public interest. Indeed, on March 29 the Maryland House voted to give the city of Baltimore the power to take over the Colts, and the city sent Mr. Irsay a telegram offering him $40 million. It was a day too late.
        Mr. Irsay had acquired the Colts in 1972 from Carroll Rosenbloom in one of the more innovative financial deals in sports history. Mr. Irsay and Mr. Rosenbloom swapped franchises, with Mr. Irsay exchanging his Los Angeles Rams -- a team he had bought a few months earlier -- for Mr. Rosenbloom's Colts. This way, Mr. Rosenbloom, who wanted to live on the West Coast, was able to sell his team without paying taxes.
        Mr. Irsay had built a fortune -- estimated at more than $150 million -- in various heating and air-conditioning businesses. But his luck running a sports franchise was considerably less. The Colts qualified for the playoffs the last two years -- they lost in the American Football Conference championship game in January 1996 -- but those berths were their first in post-season play since the 1987 season.
        In 1987, Mr. Irsay approved one of the biggest trades in league history, a 10-player, three-team swap that brought the star running back Eric Dickerson to Indianapolis.
        The club's move to Indianapolis sparked a widespread review of Mr. Irsay and his background, and in the aftermath yielded inconsistencies that he was at a loss to explain.
        His biography in the Colts' media guide had described World War II service in the Marine Corps, stating he had reached the rank of lieutenant. In an interview with The Baltimore Sun shortly after he acquired the Colts, he said he washed dishes to help support himself while attending the University of Illinois. He often described an impoverished upbringing in an ethnically diverse section of Chicago.
        But a 1986 article in Sports Illustrated reported that Mr. Irsay had not served as a commissioned officer. The article also quoted other family members as saying that the family had not been impoverished.
        Whatever the real facts in his background, Mr. Irsay was undeniably a successful businessman. He apparently left his father's company to form a competing sheet-metal business that prospered and eventually became the largest such company in Chicago.
        With the Colts, Mr. Irsay was a hands-on owner who insinuated himself into the football business. He would prowl the sidelines during games, making suggestions, and more than once gave a speech to the team in the locker room. In fact, shortly after he became the owner, he dismissed Coach Don McCafferty five games into the 1972 season even though McCafferty's team had won the 1971 Super Bowl. The Colts floundered, only to be revived when Mr. Irsay hired Ted Marchibroda in 1975. They enjoyed the greatest one-season turnaround in league history, going from 2-12 to 10-4.
        Within three years, though, Mr. Marchibroda was gone and the up-and-down fortunes of the team continued. Attendance sank as well, and the team's home, Memorial Stadium, deteriorated.
        Mr. Irsay was wooed by Phoenix, Memphis and Jacksonville, Fla., which even staged a citywide welcoming party. Baltimore officials promised to renovate the stadium, and the state legislature in 1980 passed a $23 million bond issue for that purpose if he would remain. He refused to sign the agreement.
        Even Baltimore's offer of a $15 million loan at 6 1/2 percent interest, extremely generous terms in 1984, along with a guarantee that the Colts would sell 43,000 tickets a game for six years could not persuade Mr. Irsay to remain.
        Despite the negative images, Mr. Irsay was active in fund-raising events, regularly turning over his 30-acre estate in Carmel for charitable functions. ''He's a rough diamond,'' William Hudnut, a former Mayor of Indianapolis who helped negotiate the Colts' move, said. ''He's a much better corporate citizen than anybody has given him credit for.''
        Mr. Irsay had turned over almost all the Colts' daily operations and player negotiations to his son Jim, the team's general manager and chief operating officer, before his stroke.
        It is believed that the club will remain in the family, and that Jim Irsay will inherit it.
        Mr. Irsay had recently been at the center of a battle between his wife, Nancy, and Jim Irsay over his estate and medical care. A Chicago-based bank is now guardian of the estate under court order.
        In addition to his son Jim and his wife, whom he married in 1989, Mr. Irsay is survived by another son, Tom, and three grandchildren. He was divorced from his first wife, Harriet, after 41 years of marriage.
      