
        Carl Maxey, a scrappy civil rights lawyer credited with virtually singlehandedly desegregating much of the inland Northwest, took his life on Thursday, the police said in Spokane, Wash., where he had long been known as the city's leading criminal defense attorney and a pre-eminent civic leader. He was 73.
        The police said Mr. Maxey, who left no note, died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound at his home. Relatives declined to speak to reporters, and detectives closed the investigation without having determined a motive.
        In a city of such deeply entrenched racial segregation that black residents can rattle off the names of the city's first black teacher, its first black letter carrier and its first black doctor (there has never been a black dentist), Mr. Maxey enjoyed a special reputation.
        He was at once eastern Washington's first black lawyer and one who became so adept at using litigation to break down racial barriers at restaurants, private clubs and other establishments that he claimed some of his most significant victories simply by threatening to sue.
        Along the way, Mr. Maxey won such widespread admiration that he became a member of the city's power elite, serving on a host of civic and corporate boards. He defended prominent white defendants in some of the city's most celebrated criminal cases, but he also represented many obscure black clients and others without charge.
        He was nominated by a retiring justice to take his place on the state Supreme Court (the Governor named a black law professor instead) and was chosen as the antiwar candidate to challenge Senator Henry M. Jackson in the 1970 Democratic primary, which he lost.
        Mr. Maxey also served as a state co-chairman of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Presidential campaigns and was named by five Presidents as state chairman for the United States Civil Rights Commission.
        By the time Mr. Maxey graduated from the Gonzaga University law school in Spokane in 1951, he knew exactly what he was up against.
        In contrast to the situation in the Deep South, where the vast black population was kept in check by law and lynchings, segregation was a matter of custom in Spokane and surrounding towns in the intermountain area of eastern Washington.
        In an area where black residents have never accounted for as much as 2 percent of the population, that was all it took. Like other older black residents of Spokane, Mr. Maxey well remembered the days when ''no colored'' signs were common and unwritten rules allowed blacks at the dance hall in Natorium Park only when black bands were playing and barred them altogether from the park's pool.
        Growing up in Spokane, Carl Maxey never much cottoned to unwritten rules, recalling earlier this year that ''I've been thrown out of the Nat more times'' than he bothered to count.
        For Mr. Maxey, being thrown out of a public park was small potatoes. Born out of wedlock in Tacoma and adopted by a Spokane couple who died when he was 2, he spent most of his childhood at the Spokane Children's Home.
        He was expelled from the orphanage at 11, when the board voted unanimously in 1936 to stop harboring ''colored children.''
        Housed briefly in a juvenile detention center, he was eventually sent to an Indian school in Idaho, where he came under the benign influence of a Jesuit priest before working his way through high school in Spokane and serving as a medic in World War II.
        For all the priest's influence, it was Mr. Maxey's spunk and his athletic prowess that set him on the road to prominence. A group of white Spokane businessmen were so impressed with him and his boxing skills that they paid his way to Oregon State University and Gonzaga. Mr. Maxey did not disappoint them. At Gonzaga, he became the 1950 lightweight collegiate boxing champion.
        As a new lawyer in 1951, Mr. Maxey hit the ground running. The mere hint of a lawsuit that year, he later boasted, was all it took to persuade the Spokane school district to accept its first black teacher in 15 years -- its second ever.
        He had talked recently of retiring but had hardly slowed down.
        Just a month ago, when the Spokane police chief explained that he was barring Mr. Maxey from a conciliation meeting called to discuss a review panel's controversial vindication of officers accused of using excessive force, because he might file a lawsuit, the chief's logic, at least, seemed impeccable.
        Mr. Maxey's survivors include his wife, Lou, and two sons from a previous marriage, Bill and Bevan, both lawyers in their father's firm.
      