
        Daniel I. Sargent, the founder of the corporate finance department of Salomon Brothers and later a managing director of the firm as well as the head of its credit and business practice committee, died on Thursday at his home in North Salem, N.Y.
        He was 72 years old and had been suffering from pancreatic cancer, his wife, Elaine, said.
        In an age when bankers often move rapidly from firm to firm, Mr. Sargent remained at Salomon Brothers for nearly 30 years after joining in 1968. He was made a general partner the following year and during his tenure as head of corporate finance,  helped establish its position in a variety of fields including banking and financial services, public utilities and transportation.
        When the firm merged with the Phibro Corporation in 1981, he became a managing director and remained head of the credit committee until four years ago.
        Mr. Sargent, a cousin of the painter John Singer Sargent, graduated from Brown University and the Harvard School of Business Administration's Advanced Management Program.
        He began as an engineer with W. R. Grace but soon entered finance as a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
        Until recently he was a member of the American Cardiovascular Research Foundation and the investment committee of Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was also a Dean's Council Member of the Harvard School of Public Health.
        He was a collector of antique cars, and won first prize at the 1976 Antique Automobile Club car show with a 1931 Packard. His 1922 Rolls-Royce had captured first prize in that competition in 1956.
        He is survived by his wife, Elaine B. Leopold Sargent; six children from his first marriage, Susan Sargent of Pawlet, Vt.; Daniel A. of Summit, N.J.; John P. of Rowayton, Conn.; David W. of Spring, Tex.; Jodie L. of New Canaan, Conn., and Mark A. of Putney, Vt.; two stepchildren, John Leopold of Montreal and Stephen Leopold of Manhattan, and 10 grandchildren.
      