
        Robert McCague Hays, the passionate plant propagator of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Thursday at New York University Hospital. He was 38.
        He lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and died of kidney failure after a 12-year struggle with AIDS, said Judy Zuk, the president of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
        ''He went through a tremendous amount of health complications, but his dedication and his spirit for his work never diminished,'' Ms. Zuk said, noting that he would run out for a medical test while setting up a plant sale and resume work a few hours later without missing a beat.
        ''He was one of the best plantsmen in the country,'' said Kris Jarantoski, the director of the Chicago Botanic Garden.
        Ms. Zuk first met Mr. Hayes when she was the director of the Scott Arboretum at Swarthmore College, near Philadelphia, and needed an intern. ''I vividly remember his interview,'' she said. ''It was winter, and I took him on a tour of the greenhouse, which just had these little six-inch sticks of plants growing out of pots, and he said, 'Oh, I see you're growing Davidias.' ''
        His encyclopedic, hands-on plant knowledge was put to good use when he was hired as the plant propagator at the garden in Brooklyn about 10 years ago.
        One of his most spectacular finds  was a striped-green canna he spied at the University of Hohenheim Botanical Garden in Stuttgart, Germany, a few years ago. The plant did not even have a name, until he gave it one -- Canna Stuttgart -- and planted it in the Brooklyn garden.
        Mr. Hays, who was born in Sewickley, Pa., received a bachelor of science degree at North Carolina State University. His friend and mentor was Dr. J. C. Raulston, a renowned horticulture teacher and creator of the arboretum there.
        Mr. Hays was in charge of the Brooklyn garden's Signature Seed program, in which contributing members receive seeds and unusual plants every spring and fall. He had a loyal band of volunteers who helped him grow and send the plants.
        Mr. Hays received the 1996 Professional Citation Award from the American Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta. He was the editor, with Janet Marinelli, of ''Bulbs for Indoors,'' one of the Botanic Garden's handbooks.
        He is survived by his mother, Alice Hays Morrison, of Marienville, Pa., five sisters, Mary Mathews, Christiani Hays and Carol Dixon, all of Sewickley, Pa., Alice Hoesch of Phoenix and Barbara Tidona of Sayerville, N.J., and a brother, John Alden Hays Jr. of Hilton Head, S.C.
      