
        Marvin J. Sonosky, a Washington lawyer who championed the cause of the American Indian throughout his long career, died on Wednesday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. An Alexandria resident, he was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, his law firm reported.
        Until his death, he was active as a senior partner in Sonosky, Chambers, Sachse & Endreson, the firm he formed in 1976 in Washington; it has affiliate offices in Anchorage and Juneau, Alaska. Its legal work is wide-ranging, including general trial practice, Indian and Alaskan native affairs, public land disputes and the laws of election and campaign finance.
        Mr. Sonosky specialized in the law relating to American Indians and served as general counsel to Assiniboine, Sioux and Shoshone tribes in Montana, Wyoming and the Dakotas. He successfully litigated many of their land claims against the Federal Government.
        In the most famous instance, he worked for 24 years to get the United States to return the Black Hills of South Dakota to the Sioux nation; the United States Supreme Court finally ruled in the Indians' favor in 1980. Considered sacred grounds by the Sioux, the hills had been taken from them 104 years earlier.
        That was the largest judgment ever entered against the United States on an Indian claim. Mr. Sonosky and two colleagues had joined the case in 1956 on a contingent-fee basis, so they received no payment for 24 years. Then they shared an astonishing $10 million legal fee awarded to them in 1981 by the Federal Court of Claims in Washington.
        Mr. Sonosky had a hand in drafting legislation to protect Indian rights and lobbied Congress to enact the measures. One statute allows tribes to sue in Federal district courts without jurisdictional limitations. Another law returned millions of acres of reservation property to the tribes after it had been confiscated by Federal fiat as ''submarginal'' or ''surplus'' lands.
        Mr. Sonosky was born in Duluth, Minn. He graduated from the University of Minnesota and its law school, where he endowed the Marvin J. Sonosky Chair in 1982. He was admitted to the Minnesota bar in 1932 and went into private practice in Duluth.
        He moved to Washington in 1937 and worked as a lawyer in the lands division of the Department of Justice and was Special Assistant to the Attorney General. He returned to private practice in 1951 as a law associate, then practiced law on his own before he started Sonosky, Chambers.
        Mr. Sonosky is survived by his wife of 62 years, Shirley Freimuth Sonosky; three daughters, Judy Kreisberg of Beverly Hills, Calif., Joanne Hirsch of Washington, and Karen Hecker of Vienna, Va.; seven grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      