
        Stuart Jewell, a celebrated cinematographer who was so enthralled with natural wonders that he pursued them from sunrise to sunset for half a century, died on July 13 at his home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 84 and best known for his time-lapse photography in Walt Disney's landmark nature movie, ''The Living Desert.''
        His wife, Irene, said the cause was cancer.
        A pioneer in the use of time-lapse photography, Mr. Jewell did some of his most satisfying work before the advent of automatic shutter timers and motor drives made it possible to leave a camera on a tripod to make a sequence of exposures at fixed intervals, while, say, clouds boiled across the sky in the course of a day, or a field of flowers sprouted, opened their petals, blossomed, faded and died over a season.
        As one of half a dozen innovative cameramen who worked on ''The Living Desert,'' which won the Academy Award for best documentary in 1953, Mr. Jewell camped in the Sierra Desert for months, spending much of the time on his knees waiting for the exact moment a sprout pushed through the soil.
        A man of almost obsessive patience, he once spent virtually every daylight hour for more than three weeks perched in an oak tree near a populous beehive in a hooded hollow of the tree.
        Mr. Jewell, who had a strong feeling for every aspect of nature and reveled in its beauty, made clear that the experience, including a dozen token stings, would have been worth it if he had merely been a witness to, as he later described it, ''one of the supremely ceremonious events of apian society -- the change of reigning queens in the dynastic successions of a million years.''
        As it happened, he had his camera, and when he gingerly opened a section of the hive after the departing queen, ''a regal-looking creature, golden and glistening,'' had emerged, signaling the end of her reign, he had it rolling as eight new-born candidates for the succession broke out of their cells and paired off for a series of death duels until the exhausted lone survivor, surrounded by a swarm of prospective mates, flew off on her nuptial flight.
        As a result, he was merely the witness of first impression for an event he captured for the ages in ''Secrets of Life,'' a Disney documentary released in 1956.
        A native of Honolulu, where his engineer father had gone to help build Pearl Harbor, Mr. Jewell, who is survived also by a sister, Virginia McCurdy of St. Petersburg, Fla., grew up in suburban Chicago, studied metallurgy and worked for the Manhattan Project in Oak Ridge, Tenn., producing weapons-grade uranium for the atomic bomb.
        Intrigued by movie cameras since the 1930's, Mr. Jewell, who owned some of the earliest Kodak models and never switched to video, concentrated initially on getting bird's eye views of the world. He became a pilot, started his own aerial photography business and at one point built and flew his own plane.
        By the end of World War II his interest had shifted to time-lapse photography, but after seven years with Disney (he made a time-lapse film of the construction of Disneyland) he struck out on his own as a freewheeling independent cameraman selling stock footage of birds, animals, forests, beaches, storm clouds and other natural phenomena and landmarks through an agency.
        A man of intense wonder, he had a boundless curiosity that took him and his cameras around the world several times.
        Although something of a loner, he was far from a recluse. He outlived two wives and almost ran his third ragged. ''It was hard for me to keep up with him,'' she said the other day, noting that during their five years of marriage she had helped lug his equipment on several long trips abroad each year.
        For all his interest in nature, Mr. Jewell had developed a recent obsession with steam locomotives. Recognizing that the magnificent engines were an endangered species that would soon disappear -- not coincidentally making films that showed them in action against varied backgrounds all the more valuable -- he tracked them down and filmed them throughout the world, including a memorable wintertime trip to China, where he worked outdoors in sub-freezing weather.
        A man so at one with his work that he rarely went a day without filming something and routinely shot tens of thousands of feet a film a year, Mr. Jewell never ran out of challenges.
        Although he and his wife enjoyed the friendships they made on their foreign trips, they rarely had time to socialize at home.
        It would be getting on toward evening, his wife recalled, and her husband, who had filmed dramatic sunsets all over the world, would be drawn to the beach one more time.
        ''If we don't go,'' he would say, ''we might miss a killer sunset.''
      