
        The Right Rev. John Elbridge Hines, the 22d Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church who guided the denomination through the social turmoil of the 1960's and helped open its clerical ranks to women and blacks, died on Saturday in Austin, Tex. He was 86 and had moved to Austin from North Carolina four years ago.
        Bishop Hines had been bed-ridden and in declining health since breaking several ribs in a fall last Christmas. Associates said his condition deteriorated swiftly after a stroke in recent days.
        His commitment to social justice prompted his elevation by the Episcopal House of Bishops to spiritual head of the church's three million members in an extraordinarily disruptive period. From 1965 to 1974, he pursued profound changes in the church's structure and its outlook.
        He assumed his duties as Presiding Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church on Jan. 1, 1965, and at 54 he was the youngest man to hold that position.
        As his predecessor, the Right. Rev. Arthur Lichtenberger had done, Bishop Hines kept his church in the forefront of ecumenical and civil rights movements.
        He resigned at 63 in 1974, saying he was in good health but wanted to make room for a younger leader. At the time he was still pressing the church's law-giving body to allow the ordination of women as priests and bishops, an emotional issue since the 1970 convention decreed their acceptance only as deacons.
        Presiding at church headquarters in Manhattan, he served as chief executive as well as pastor of the Church of St. Peter and St. Paul in Washington and representative to other denominations and the Anglican Communion.
        Managing a large staff, he was accused by critics of overlooking administrative detail as he focused on social issues. He stood for liturgical renewal, the ecumenical movement and the promotion of minority members and women in church councils.
        Lending a Christian perspective to the problems of racism and poverty, he responded to the urban riots of 1967 with a plan to reorder the Episcopal Church's fiscal priorities. He advocated measures to give the poor of the ghetto financial help with no strings attached, and with it political and economic independence.
        His call for social justice and self-determination inspired a General Convention Special Program. Intended to purge his church of racism, the program accomplished much in the neighborhoods it served. But it was unable to enlist the rank and file and provoked dissent, leading many congregations to withhold money, which drastically reduced the church's national budget.
        Bishop Hines nevertheless broke new ground in 1971 by taking his fight against racism to South Africa. He started a divestment campaign that spread to other denominations and American public and academic institutions.
        Wielding the power of shareholders at annual corporation meetings, the movement persuaded some big businesses to cut back or shed their investments in apartheid-era South Africa. Bishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa said the movement played an important role in the demise of apartheid.
        Bishop Hines brought the Office of the Presiding Bishop to its highest level of centralization. Many objected, but he never wavered in his conviction that the church had to take an uncompromising stand for the poor and defenseless and serve as an inspiration for others to do so.
        When he left office before the end of his term, The Christian Century  said he ''remained astride the bucking bronco of a polarized church during one of the most controversial decades of American history.'' Many blamed him for drops in church membership, but since his retirement more national and local Episcopal bodies have engaged in the kind of social outreach ministries he propagated.
        Bishop Hines was born in Seneca, S.C., and excelled in academics, athletics and student leadership at the University of the South. He graduated from Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria and filled his first ministry at the depth of the Depression in St. Louis.
        There he came under the spell of Bishop Will Scarlett, one of the Episcopal preachers of a ''Social Gospel'' that sought to imbue American society with Christian values.
        He was sent at age 26 to Georgia, where he attacked racism while starting his lifelong defense of those who lacked political, economic, social and educational opportunities. He moved to Houston in 1941 as rector of the Church of Christ and a builder of nationally reputed institutions, including a seminary, college chaplaincies and 41 new congregations. He became Bishop of Texas in 1955, and led his diocese through a racial integration of its institutions.
        In retirement, he lived for nearly 20 years in North Carolina, staying out of the spotlight but occasionally preaching, lecturing and taking part in the consecration of bishops.
        He was married to Helen Orwig, with whom he had four sons and a daughter, who survive. Helen Hines died last year.
      