
        Bruno Zehnder, an adventurous Swiss photographer best known for his striking images of penguins and other wildlife, died earlier this month when he lost his way in a blizzard while trying to return to the Russian base at Mirnyy, Antarctica. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Zehnder was spending the Southern Hemisphere winter at Mirnyy Station on the Antarctic coast south of the Indian Ocean in cooperation with the Russian Antarctic research agency. His primary goal was to study and photograph the breeding activities of emperor penguins, the only Antarctic creatures that breed on open sea ice in the continuous darkness and at winter temperatures of minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit.
        Mr. Zehnder's brother Guido, also a New York City resident, said yesterday that information reaching him from the Russian Antarctic support base in Cape Town had been spotty. Even the date on which his brother died was uncertain, he said, although it apparently happened on July 7.
        ''According to broken communications the Russians received at Cape Town from their people at Mirnyy Station,'' Mr. Zehnder said, ''my brother left Mirnyy alone on foot at about 11:45 in the morning. At 1 P.M. he radioed that the weather had deteriorated, with high winds. At 3:40 P.M. Bruno radioed that he was coming back, and then no more was heard, so the Russians put out flares to guide him. But he never arrived.
        ''My brother's body was found 42 hours later, one mile on the other side of the base. He had missed it by only 50 yards as he walked by it in the darkness and blowing snow. He must have felt panic and despair when he realized he had missed the base and was freezing to death.''
        Bruno Zehnder was a freelance photographer whose pictures appeared in many magazines in Europe and the United States. His frequent sojourns in Antarctica resulted in photographs that won several prizes; one of his most widely published pictures was of a pair of emperor penguins in tender embrace with a chick between them. Another picture, made during a trip last year, was of a mother emperor penguin trying vainly to feed her chick, whose beak had frozen closed.
        Mr. Zehnder spent months at a time in Antarctica, in both summer and winter, visiting the bases of many nations, including those of Chile, New Zealand, the United States, Denmark and Russia. He was one of handful of journalists permitted to live at the Russian bases. On one of his stays, he accompanied the Russian tractor-drawn sledge train that brings supplies each year from Mirnyy some 900 miles inland to Vostok Station on the polar plateau, a hazardous journey taking a month or more.
        Mr. Zehnder traveled extensively in Asia. Among his many photography exhibitions was a show presented in New York City by the Swiss and Vietnamese consulates, featuring a collection of photographs depicting life in Vietnam as it recovered from the ravages of the war. Mr. Zehnder traveled extensively in Asia. He was also fascinated by blimps and the views they afforded of life on the ground.
        Among Mr. Zehnder's awards were the United Nations Environmental Protection Prize in 1987 and the British Broadcasting System's Wildlife Photographer of the Year award in 1990. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in London.
        In 1984 Mr. Zehnder persuaded his fiancee, Heather May of New York City, to accompany him on a trip to Marambio, one of Argentina's Antarctic stations. When they arrived at the base, he startled her by changing into a tuxedo and informing her that the Argentine authorities were prepared to marry the couple on the spot. After the ceremony, they posed with wedding guests, who included some penguins.
        Three years later the couple separated.
        Mr. Zehnder was born on Sept. 8, 1945 in Bad Ragaz, a Swiss mountain village near the border of Liechtenstein, the youngest of six children. He grew up in the village, ''but I persuaded him to join me abroad,'' his brother Guido said. ''There's something very depressing about being closed in by mountains.''
        Since 1977 he had lived in New York City when he was not traveling. Under the terms of his will, his brother said, he will be buried in Antarctica by his Russian companions, who have buried 45 of their own compatriots in the ice over the years. A memorial service is to be held in Bad Ragaz on Aug. 8, and another service is planned for Sept. 6 in New York.
      